At starlight we dropped down the stream, which was a dead-water for three miles, or as far
as the Moosehorn; Joe telling us that we must be very silent, and he himself making no noise
with his paddle, while he urged the canoe along with effective impulses. It was a still night,
and suitable for this purpose,--for if there is wind, the moose will smell you,--and Joe was
very confident that he should get some. The harvest moon had just risen, and its level rays
began to light up the forest on our right, while we glided downward in the shade on the same
side, against the little breeze that was stirring. The lofty spiring tops of the spruce and
fir were very black against the sky, and more distinct than by day, close bordering this broad
avenue on each side; and the beauty of the scene, as the moon rose above the forest, it would
not be easy to describe. A bat flew over our heads, and we heard a few faint notes of birds
from time to time, perhaps the myrtle-bird for one, or the sudden plunge of a musquash, or
saw one crossing the stream before us, or heard the sound of a rill emptying in, swollen by
the recent rain. About a mile below the island, when the solitude seemed to be growing more
complete every moment, we suddenly saw the light and heard the crackling of a fire on the bank,
and discovered the camp of the two explorers; they standing before it in their red shirts,
and talking aloud of the adventures and profits of the day. They were just then speaking of
a bargain, in which, as I understood, somebody had cleared twenty-five dollars. We glided by
without speaking, close under the bank, within a couple of rods of them; and Joe, taking his
horn, imitated the call of the moose, till we suggested that they might fire on us. This was
the last we saw of them, and we never knew whether they detected or suspected us.

I have often wished since that I was with them. They search for timber over a given section,
climbing hills and often high trees to look off,--explore the streams by which it is to be
driven, and the like,--spend five or six weeks in the woods, they two alone, a hundred miles
or more from any town,--roaming about, and sleeping on the ground where night overtakes them,--depending
chiefly on the provisions they carry with them, though they do not decline what game they come
across,--and then in the fall they return and make report to their employers, determining the
number of teams that will be required the following winter. Experienced men get three or four
dollars a day for this work. It is a solitary and adventurous life, and comes nearest to that
of the trapper of the West, perhaps. They work ever with a gun as well as an axe, let their
beards grow, and live without neighbors, not on an open plain, but far within a wilderness.

This discovery accounted for the sounds which we had heard, and destroyed the prospect of seeing
moose yet awhile. At length, when we had left the explorers far behind, Joe laid down his paddle,
drew forth his birch horn,--a straight one, about fifteen inches long and three or four wide
at the mouth, tied round with strips of the same bark,--and standing up, imitated the call
of the moose,--ugh-ugh-ugh, or oo-oo-oo-oo, and then a prolonged oo-o-o-o-o-o-o-o, and listened
attentively for several minutes. We asked him what kind of noise he expected to hear. He said,
that, if a moose heard it, he guessed we should find out; we should hear him coming half a
mile off; he would come close to, perhaps into, the water, and my companion must wait till
he got fair sight, and then aim just behind the shoulder.

The moose venture out to the riverside to feed and drink at night. Earlier in the season the
hunters do not use a horn to call them out, but steal upon them as they are feeding along the
sides of the stream, and often the first notice they have of one is the sound of the water
dropping from its muzzle. An Indian whom I heard imitate the voice of the moose, and also that
of the caribou and the deer, using a much longer horn than Joe's, told me that the first could
be heard eight or ten miles, sometimes; it was a loud sort of bellowing sound, clearer and
more sonorous than the lowing of cattle,--the caribou's a sort of snort,--and the small deer's
like that of a lamb.

At length we turned up the Moosehorn, where the Indians at the carry had told us that they
killed a moose the night before. This is a very meandering stream, only a rod or two in width,
but comparatively deep, coming in on the right, fitly enough named Moosehorn, whether from
its windings or its inhabitants. It was bordered here and there by narrow meadows between the
stream and the endless forest, affording favorable places for the moose to feed, and to call
them out on. We proceeded half a mile up this, as through a narrow winding canal, where the
tall, dark spruce and firs and arbor-vitae towered on both sides in the moonlight, forming
a perpendicular forest-edge of great height, like the spires of a Venice in the forest. In
two places stood a small stack of hay on the bank, ready for the lumberer's use in the winter,
looking strange enough there. We thought of the day when this might be a brook winding through
smooth-shaven meadows on some gentleman's grounds; and seen by moonlight then, excepting the
forest that now hems it in, how little changed it would appear!

Again and again Joe called the moose, placing the canoe close by some favorable point of meadow
for them to come out on, but listened in vain to hear one come rushing through the woods, and
concluded that they had been hunted too much thereabouts. We saw many times what to our imaginations
looked like a gigantic moose, with his horns peering from out the forest-edge; but we saw the
forest only, and not its inhabitants, that night. So at last we turned about. There was now
a little fog on the water, though it was a fine, clear night above. There were very few sounds
to break the stillness of the forest. Several times we heard the hooting of a great horned-owl,
as at home, and told Joe that he would call out the moose for him, for he made a sound considerably
like the horn,--but Joe answered, that the moose had heard that sound a thousand times, and
knew better; and oftener still we were startled by the plunge of a musquash. Once, when Joe
had called again, and we were listening for moose, we heard come faintly echoing, or creeping
from far, through the moss-clad aisles, a dull, dry, rushing sound, with a solid core to it,
yet as if half smothered under the grasp of the luxuriant and fungus-like forest, like the
shutting of a door in some distant entry of the damp and shaggy wilderness. If we had not been
there, no mortal had heard it. When we asked Joe in a whisper what it was, he answered,-- "Tree
fall." There is something singularly grand and impressive in the sound of a tree falling in
a perfectly calm night like this, as if the agencies which overthrow it did not need to be
excited, but worked with a subtle, deliberate, and conscious force, like a boa-constrictor,
and more effectively then than even in a windy day. If there is any such difference, perhaps
it is because trees with the dews of the night on them are heavier than by day.

Having reached the camp, about ten o'clock, we kindled our fire and went to bed. Each of us
had a blanket, in which he lay on the fir-twigs, with his extremities toward the fire, but
nothing over his head. It was worth the while to lie down in a country where you could afford
such great fires; that was one whole side, and the bright side, of our world. We had first
rolled up a large log some eighteen inches through and ten feet long, for a back-log, to last
all night, and then piled on the trees to the height of three or four feet, no matter how green
or damp. In fact, we burned as much wood that night as would, with economy and an air-tight
stove, last a poor family in one of our cities all winter. It was very agreeable, as well as
independent, thus lying in the open air, and the fire kept our uncovered extremities warm enough.
The Jesuit missionaries used to say, that, in their journeys with the Indians in Canada, they
lay on a bed which had never been shaken up since the creation, unless by earthquakes. It is
surprising with what impunity and comfort one who has always lain in a warm bed in a close
apartment, and studiously avoided drafts of air, can lie down on the ground without a shelter,
roll himself in a blanket, and sleep before a fire, in a frosty autumn night, just after a
long rain-storm, and even come soon to enjoy and value the fresh air.

I lay awake awhile, watching the ascent of the sparks through the firs, and sometimes their
descent in half-extinguished cinders on my blanket. They were as interesting as fireworks,
going up in endless successive crowds, each after an explosion, in an eager serpentine course,
some to five or six rods above the tree-tops before they went out. We do not suspect how much
our chimneys have concealed; and now air-tight stoves have come to conceal all the rest. In
the course of the night, I got up once or twice and put fresh logs on the fire, making my companions
curl up their legs.

When we awoke in the morning, (Saturday, September 17,) there was considerable frost whitening
the leaves. We heard the sound of the chickadee, and a few faintly lisping birds, and also
of ducks in the water about the island. I took a botanical account of stock of our domains
before the dew was off, and found that the ground-hemlock, or American yew, was the prevailing
undershrub. We breakfasted on tea, hard bread, and ducks.

Before the fog had fairly cleared away, we paddled down the stream again, and were soon past
the mouth of the Moosehorn. These twenty miles of the Penobscot, between Moosehead and Chesuncook
Lakes, are comparatively smooth, and a great part dead-water; but from time to time it is shallow
and rapid, with rocks or gravel-beds, where you can wade across. There is no expanse of water,
and no break in the forest, and the meadow is a mere edging here and there. There are no hills
near the river nor within sight, except one or two distant mountains seen in a few places.
The banks are from six to ten feet high, but once or twice rise gently to higher ground. In
many places the forest on the bank was but a thin strip, letting the light through from some
alder-swamp or meadow behind. The conspicuous berry-bearing bushes and trees along the shore
were the red osier, with its whitish fruit, hobble-bush, mountain-ash, tree-cranberry, choke-cherry,
now ripe, alternate cornel, and naked viburnum. Following Joe's example, I ate the fruit of
the last, and also of the hobble-bush, but found them rather insipid and seedy. I looked very
narrowly at the vegetation, as we glided along close to the shore, and frequently made Joe
turn aside for me to pluck a plant, that I might see by comparison what was primitive about
my native river. Horehound, horsemint, and the sensitive fern grew close to the edge, under
the willows and alders, and wool-grass on the islands, as along the Assabet River in Concord.
It was too late for flowers, except a few asters, golden-rods, etc. In several places we noticed
the slight frame of a camp, such as we had prepared to set up, amid the forest by the river-side,
where some lumberers or hunters had passed a night,--and sometimes steps cut in the muddy or
clayey bank in front of it.

We stopped to fish for trout at the mouth of a small stream called Ragmuff, which came in from
the west, about two miles below the Moosehorn. Here were the ruins of an old lumbering-camp,
and a small space, which had formerly been cleared and burned over, was now densely overgrown
with the red cherry and raspberries. While we were trying for trout, Joe, Indian-like, wandered
off up the Ragmuff on his own errands, and when we were ready to start was far beyond call.
So we were compelled to make a fire and get our dinner here, not to lose time. Some dark reddish
birds, with grayer females, (perhaps purple finches,) and myrtle-birds in their summer dress,
hopped within six or eight feet of us and our smoke. Perhaps they smelled the frying pork.
The latter bird, or both, made the lisping notes which I had heard in the forest. They suggested
that the few small birds found in the wilderness are on more familiar terms with the lumberman
and hunter than those of the orchard and clearing with the farmer. I have since found the Canada
jay, and partridges, both the black and the common, equally tame there, as if they had not
yet learned to mistrust man entirely. The chickadee, which is at home alike in the primitive
woods and in our wood-lots, still retains its confidence in the towns to a remarkable degree.

Joe at length returned, after an hour and a half, and said that he had been two miles up the
stream exploring, and had seen a moose, but, not having the gun, he did not get him. We made
no complaint, but concluded to look out for Joe the next time. However, this may have been
a mere mistake, for we had no reason to complain of him afterwards. As we continued down the
stream, I was surprised to hear him whistling "O Susanna," and several other such airs, while
his paddle urged us along. Once he said, "Yes, Sir-ee." His common word was "Sartain." He paddled,
as usual, on one side only, giving the birch an impulse by using the side as a fulcrum. I asked
him how the ribs were fastened to the side rails. He answered, "I don't know, I never noticed."
Talking with him about subsisting wholly on what the woods yielded, game, fish, berries, etc.,
I suggested that his ancestors did so; but he answered, that he had been brought up in such
a way that he could not do it. "Yes," said he, "that's the way they got a living, like wild
fellows, wild as bears. By George! I shan't go into the woods without provision,--hard bread,
pork, etc." He had brought on a barrel of hard bread and stored it at the carry for his hunting.
However, though he was a Governor's son, he had not learned to read.

At one place below this, on the east side, where the bank was higher and drier than usual,
rising gently from the shore to a slight elevation, some one had felled the trees over twenty
or thirty acres, and left them drying in order to burn. This was the only preparation for a
house between the Moosehead carry and Chesuncook, but there was no hut nor inhabitants there
yet. The pioneer thus selects a site for his house, which will, perhaps, prove the germ of a town.

My eyes were all the while on the trees, distinguishing between the black and white spruce
and the fir. You paddle along in a narrow canal through an endless forest, and the vision I
have in my mind's eye, still, is of the small dark and sharp tops of tall fir and spruce trees,
and pagoda-like arbor-vitaes, crowded together on each side, with various hard woods intermixed.
Some of the arbor-vitaes were at least sixty feet high. The hard woods, occasionally occurring
exclusively, were less wild to my eye. I fancied them ornamental grounds, with farm-houses
in the rear. The canoe and yellow birch, beech, maple, and elm are Saxon and Norman; but the
spruce and fir, and pines generally, are Indian. The soft engravings which adorn the annuals
give no idea of a stream in such a wilderness as this. The rough sketches in Jackson's Reports
on the Geology of Maine answer much better. At one place we saw a small grove of slender sapling
white-pines, the only collection of pines that I saw on this voyage. Here and there, however,
was a full-grown, tall, and slender, but defective one, what lumbermen call a kouchus tree,
which they ascertain with their axes, or by the knots. I did not learn whether this word was
Indian or English. It reminded me of the Greek [Greek: kogchae], a conch or shell, and I amused
myself with fancying that it might signify the dead sound which the trees yield when struck.
All the rest of the pines had been driven off.

[To be continued.]

       *       *       *       *       *

LA CANTATRICE.

  By day, at a high oak desk I stand,
    And trace in a ledger line by line;
  But at five o'clock yon dial's hand
    Opens the cage wherein I pine;
  And as faintly the stroke from the belfry peals
  Down through the thunder of hoofs and wheels,
  I wonder if ever a monarch feels
        Such royal joy as mine!

  Beatrice is dressed and her carriage waits;
    I know she has heard that signal-chime;
  And my strong heart leaps and palpitates,
    As lightly the winding stair I climb
  To her fragrant room, where the winter's gloom
  Is changed by the heliotrope's perfume,
  And the curtained sunset's crimson bloom,
        To love's own summer prime.

  She meets me there, so strangely fair
    That my soul aches with a happy pain;--
  A pressure, a touch of her true lips, such
    As a seraph might give and take again;
  A hurried whisper, "Adieu! adieu!
  They wait for me while I stay for you!"
  And a parting smile of her blue eyes through
      The glimmering carriage-pane.

  Then thoughts of the past come crowding fast
    On a blissful track of love and sighs;--
  Oh, well I toiled, and these poor hands soiled,
    That her song might bloom in Italian skies!--
  The pains and fears of those lonely years,
  The nights of longing and hope and tears,--
  Her heart's sweet debt, and the long arrears
      Of love in those faithful eyes!

  O night! be friendly to her and me!--
    To box and pit and gallery swarm
  The expectant throngs;--I am there to see;--
    And now she is bending her radiant form
  To the clapping crowd;--I am thrilled and proud;
  My dim eyes look through a misty cloud,
  And my joy mounts up on the plaudits loud,
      Like a sea-bird on a storm!

  She has waved her hand; the noisy rush
    Of applause sinks down; and silverly
  Her voice glides forth on the quivering hush,
    Like the white-robed moon on a tremulous sea!
  And wherever her shining influence calls,
  I swing on the billow that swells and falls,--
  I know no more,--till the very walls
      Seem shouting with jubilee!

  Oh, little she cares for the fop who airs
    His glove and glass, or the gay array
  Of fans and perfumes, of jewels and plumes,
    Where wealth and pleasure have met to pay
  Their nightly homage to her sweet song;
  But over the bravas clear and strong,
  Over all the flaunting and fluttering throng,
      She smiles my soul away!

  Why am I happy? why am I proud?
    Oh, can it be true she is all my own?--
  I make my way through the ignorant crowd;
    I know, I know where my love hath flown.
  Again we meet; I am here at her feet,
  And with kindling kisses and promises sweet,
  Her glowing, victorious lips repeat
      That they sing for me alone!

GOTTFRIED WILHELM VON LEIBNITZ.

The philosophic import of this illustrious name, having suffered temporary eclipse from the
Critical Philosophy, with its swift succession of transcendental dynasties,--the Wissenschaftslehre,
the Naturphilosophie, and the Encyclopaedie,--has recently emerged into clear and respectful
recognition, if not into broad and effulgent repute. In divers quarters, of late, the attention
of the learned has reverted to the splendid optimist, whose adventurous intellect left nothing
unexplored and almost nothing unexplained. Biographers and critics have discussed his theories,--some
in the interest of philosophy, and some in the interest of religion,--some in the spirit of
discipleship, and some in the spirit of opposition,-- but all with consenting and admiring
attestation of the vast erudition and intellectual prowess and unsurpassed capacity [1] of the man.

[Footnote 1: The author of a notice of Leibnitz, more clever than profound, in four numbers
of the Gentleman's Magazine for 1852, distinguishes between capacity and faculty. He gives
his subject credit for the former, but denies his claim to the latter of these attributes.
As if any manifestation of mind were more deserving of that title than the power of intellectual
concentration, to which nothing that came within its focus was insoluble.]

A collection of all the works appertaining to Leibnitz, with all his own writings, would make
a respectable library. We have no room for the titles of all, even of the more recent of these
publications. We content ourselves with naming the Biography, by G. G. Guhrauer, the best that
has yet appeared, called forth by the celebration, in 1846, of the ducentesimal birthday of
Leibnitz,--the latest edition of his Philosophical Works, by Professor Erdmann of Halle--the
publication of his Correspondence with Arnauld, by Herr Grotefend, and of that with the Landgrave
Ernst von Hessen Rheinfels, by Chr. von Rommel,-- of his Historical Works, by the librarian
Pertz of Berlin,--of the Mathematical, by Gerhardt,--Ludwig Jeuerbach's elaborate dissertation,
"Darstellung, Entwickelung und Kritik der Leibnitzischen Philosophie,"-- Zimmermann's "Leibnitz
u. Herbart's Monadologie,"--Schelling's "Leibnitz als Denker,"--Hartenstein's "De Materiae
apud Leibnit. Notione,"--and Adolph Helferich's "Spinoza u. Leibnitz: oder Das Wesen des Idealismus
u. des Realismus." To these we must add, as one of the most valuable contributions to Leibnitian
literature, M. Foucher de Careil's recent publication of certain MSS. of Leibnitz, found in
the library at Hanover, containing strictures on Spinoza, (which the editor takes the liberty
to call "Refutation Inedite de Spinoza,")--"Sentiment de Worcester et de Locke sur les Idees,"--
"Correspondance avec Foucher, Bayle et Fontenelle,"--"Reflexions sur l'Art de connaitre les
Homines,"--"Fragmens Divers," etc. [2], accompanied by valuable introductory and critical essays.

[Footnote 2: A second collection, by the same hand, appeared in 1857, with the title, Nouvelles
Lettres et Opuscules Inedits de Leibnitz. Precedes d'une Introduction. Par A. Foucher de Careil.
Paris. 1857.]

M. de Careil complains that France has done so little for the memory of a man "qui lui a fait
l'honneur d'ecrire les deux tiers de ses oeuvres en Francais." England does not owe him the
same obligations, and England has done far less than France,--in fact, nothing to illustrate
the memory of Leibnitz; not so much as an English translation of his works, or an English edition
of them, in these two centuries. Nor have M. de Careil's countrymen in times past shared all
his enthusiasm for the genial Saxon. The barren Psychology of Locke obtained a currency in
France, in the last century, which the friendly Realism of his great contemporary could never
boast. Raspe, the first who edited the "Nouveaux Essais," takes to himself no small credit
for liberality in so doing, and hopes, by rendering equal justice to Leibnitz and to Locke,
to conciliate those "who, with the former, think that their wisdom is the sure measure of omnipotence,"
[3] and those who "believe, with the latter, that the human mind is to the rays of the primal
Truth what a night-bird is to the sun." [4]

[Footnote 3:
  "Stimai gia che 'I mio saper misura
  Certa fosse e infallibile di quanto
  Puo far l'alto Fattor della natura."
     Tasso, Gerus, xiv. 45.]

[Footnote 4:
  "Augel notturno al sole
  E nostra mente a' rai del primo Vero."
     Ib. 46.]

Voltaire pronounced him "le savant le plus universel de l'Europe," but characterized his metaphysical
labors with the somewhat equivocal compliment of "metaphysicien assez delie pour vouloir reconcilier
la theologie avec la metaphysique." [5]

[Footnote 5: "On sait que Voltaire n'aimait pas Leibnitz.
J'imagine que c'est le chretien qu'il detestait en lui."
    --Ch. Waddington.]

Germany, with all her wealth of erudite celebrities, has produced no other who fulfils so completely
the type of the Gelehrte,--a type which differs from that of the savant and from that of the
scholar, but includes them both. Feuerbach calls him "the personified thirst for Knowledge";
Frederic the Great pronounced him an "Academy of Sciences"; and Fontenelle said of him, that
"he saw the end of things, or that they had no end." It was an age of intellectual adventure
into which Leibnitz was born,--fit sequel and heir to the age of maritime adventure which preceded
it. We please ourselves with fancied analogies between the two epochs and the nature of their
discoveries. In the latter movement, as in the former, Italy took the lead. The martyr Giordano
Bruno was the brave Columbus of modern thought,--the first who broke loose from the trammels
of mediaeval ecclesiastical tradition, and reported a new world beyond the watery waste of
scholasticism. Campanella may represent the Vespucci of the new enterprise; Lord Bacon its
Sebastian Cabot,--the "Novum Organum" being the Newfoundland of modern experimental science.
Des Cartes was the Cortes, or shall we rather say the Ponce de Leon, of scientific discovery,
who, failing to find what he sought,--the Principle of Life, (the Fountain of Eternal Youth,)--yet
found enough to render his name immortal and to make mankind his debtor. Spinoza is the spiritual
Magalhaens, who, emerging from the straits of Judaism, beheld

  "Another ocean's breast immense, unknown."

Of modern thinkers he was

     "----the first
  That ever burst
  Into that silent sea."

He discovered the Pacific of philosophy,--that theory of the sole Divine Substance, the All-One,
which Goethe in early life found so pacifying to his troubled spirit, and which, vague and
barren as it proves on nearer acquaintance, induces at first, above all other systems, a sense
of repose in illimitable vastness and immutable necessity.

But the Vasco de Gama of his day was Leibnitz. His triumphant optimism rounded the Cape of
theological Good Hope. He gave the chief impulse to modern intellectual commerce. Full freighted,
as he was, with Western thought, he revived the forgotten interest in the Old and Eastern World,
and brought the ends of the earth together. Circumnavigator of the realms of mind, wherever
he touched, he appeared as discoverer, as conqueror, as lawgiver. In mathematics, he discovered
or invented the Differential Calculus,--the logic of transcendental analysis, the infallible
method of astronomy, without which it could never have compassed the large conclusions of the
"Mecanique Celeste." In his "Protogaea," published in 1693, he laid the foundation of the science
of Geology. From his observations, as Superintendent of the Hartz Mines, and those which he
made in his subsequent travels through Austria and Italy,--from an examination of the layers,
in different localities, of the earth's crust, he deduced the first theory, in the geological
sense, which has ever been propounded, of the earth's formation. Orthodox Lutheran as he was,
he braved the theological prejudices which then, even more than now, affronted scientific inquiry
in that direction. "First among men," says Flourens, "he demonstrated the two agencies which
successively have formed and reformed the globe,--fire and water." In the region of metaphysical
inquiry, he propounded a new and original theory of Substance, and gave to philosophy the Monad,
the Law of Continuity, the Preestablished Harmony, and the Best Possible World.

Born at Leipzig, in 1646,--left fatherless at the age of six years,-- by the care of a pious
mother and competent guardians, young Leibnitz enjoyed such means of education as Germany afforded
at that time, but declares himself, for the most part, self-taught [6].

[Footnote 6: "Duo, ihi profuere mirifice, (quae tamen alioqui ambigna,
et pluribus noxia esse solent,) primum quod fere essem [Greek:
autodidaktos], alterum quod quaererem nova in unaquaque scientia."
    --LEIBNIT. Opera Philosoph. Erdmann. p. 162.]

So genius must always be, for want of any external stimulus equal to its own impulse. No normal
training could keep pace with his abnormal growth. No school discipline could supply the fuel
necessary to feed the consuming fire of that ravenous intellect. Grammars, manuals, compends,--all
the apparatus of the classes,-- were only oil to its flame. The Master of the Nicolai-Schule
in Leipzig, his first instructor, was a steady practitioner of the Martinet order. The pupils
were ranged in classes corresponding to their civil ages,--their studies graduated according
to the baptismal register. It was not a question of faculty or proficiency, how a lad should
be classed and what he should read, but of calendar years. As if a shoemaker should fit his
last to the age instead of the foot. Such an age, such a study. Gottfried is a genius, and
Hans is a dunce; but Gottfried and Hans were both born in 1646; consequently, now, in 1654,
they are both equally fit for the Smaller Catechism. Leibnitz was ready for Latin long before
the time allotted to that study in the Nicolai-Schule, but the system was inexorable. All access
to books cut off by rigorous proscription. But the thirst for knowledge is not easily stifled,
and genius, like love, "will find out his way."

He chanced, in a corner of the house, to light on an odd volume of Livy, left there by some
student boarder. What could Livy do for a child of eight years, with no previous knowledge
of Latin, and no lexicon to interpret between them? For most children, nothing. Not one in
a thousand would have dreamed of seriously grappling with such a mystery. But the brave Patavinian
took pity on our little one and yielded something to childish importunity. The quaint old copy
was garnished, according to a fashion of the time, with rude wood-cuts, having explanatory
legends underneath. The young philologer tugged at these until he had mastered one or two words.
Then the book was thrown by in despair as impracticable to further investigation. Then, after
one or two weeks had elapsed, for want of other employment, it was taken up again, and a little
more progress made. And so by degrees, in the course of a year, a considerable knowledge of
Latin had been achieved. But when, in the Nicolai order, the time for this study arrived, so
far from being pleased to find his instructions anticipated, or welcoming such promise of future
greatness,--so far from rejoicing in his pupil's proficiency, the pedagogue chafed at the insult
offered to his system by this empiric antepast. He was like one who suddenly discovers that
he is telling an old story where he thought to surprise with a novelty; or like one who undertakes
to fill a lamp, which, being (unknown to him) already full, runs over, and his oil is spilled.
It was "oleum perdidit" in another sense than the scholastic one. Complaint was made to the
guardians of the orphan Gottfried of these illicit visits to the tree of knowledge. Severe
prohibitory measures were recommended, which, however, judicious counsel from another quarter
happily averted.

At the age of eleven, Leibnitz records, that he made, on one occasion, three hundred Latin
verses without elision between breakfast and dinner. A hundred hexameters, or fifty distichs,
in a day, is generally considered a fair pensum for a boy of sixteen at a German gymnasium.

At the age of seventeen, he produced, as an academic exercise, on taking the degree of Bachelor
of Philosophy, his celebrated treatise on the Principle of Individuality, "De Principle Individui,"
the most extraordinary performance ever achieved by a youth of that age,-- remarkable for its
erudition, especially its intimate knowledge of the writings of the Schoolmen, and equally
remarkable for its vigorous grasp of thought and its subtile analysis. In this essay Leibnitz
discovered the bent of his mind and prefigured his future philosophy, in the choice of his
theme, and in his vivid appreciation and strenuous positing of the individual as the fundamental
principle of ontology. He takes Nominalistic ground in relation to the old controversy of Nominalist
and Realist, siding with Abelard and Roscellin and Occam, and against St. Thomas and Duns Scotus.
The principle of individuation, he maintains, is the entire entity of the individual, and not
mere limitation of the universal, whether by "Existence" or by "Haecceity." [7] John and Thomas
are individuals by virtue of their integral humanity, and not by fractional limitation of humanity.
Dobbin is an actual positive horse (Entitas tota). Not a negation, by limitation, of universal
equiety (Negatio). Not an individuation, by actual existence, of a non-existent but essential
and universal horse (Existentia). Nor yet a horse only by limitation of kind,--a horse minus
Dick and Bessie and the brown mare, etc. (Haecceitas). But an individual horse, simply by virtue
of his equine nature. Only so far as he is an actual complete horse, is he an individual at
all. (Per quod quid est, per id unum numero est.) His individuality is nothing superadded to
his equiety. (Unum supra ens nihil addit reale.) Neither is it anything subtracted therefrom.
(Negatio non potest producere accidentia individualia.) In fine, there is and can be no horse
but actual individual horses. (Essentia et existentia non possunt separari.)

[Footnote 7: "Aut enim principium individuationis ponitur entitas
tota, (1) aut non tota. Non totam aut negatio exprimit, (2) aut
aliquid positivum. Positivum aut pars physica est, essentiam
terminaus, existentia, (3) aut metaphysica, speciem terminans,
haec ceitas. (4)... Pono igitur: omne individuum sua tota
entitate individuatur."
    --De Princ. Indiv. 3 et 4.]

This was the doctrine of the Nominalists, as it was of Aristotle before them. It was the doctrine
of the Reformers, except, if we remember rightly, of Huss. The University of Leipzig was founded
upon it. It is the current doctrine of the present day, and harmonizes well with the current
Materialism. Not that Nominalism in itself, and as Leibnitz held it, is necessarily materialistic,
but Realism is essentially antimaterialistic. The Realists held with Plato,--but not in his
name, for they, too, claimed to be Aristotelian, and preeminently so,--that the ideal must
precede the actual. So far they were right. This was their strong point. Their error lay in
claiming for the ideal an objective reality, an independent being. Conceptualism was only another
statement of Nominalism, or, at most, a question of the relation of language to thought. It
cannot be regarded as a third issue in this controversy,-- a controversy in which more time
was consumed, says John of Salisbury, "than the Caesars required to make themselves masters
of the world," and in which the combatants, having spent at last their whole stock of dialectic
ammunition, resorted to carnal weapons, passing suddenly, by a very illogical metabasis, from
"universals" to particulars. Both parties appealed to Aristotle. By a singular fortune, a pagan
philosopher, introduced into Western Europe by Mohammedans, became the supreme authority of
the Christian world. Aristotle was the Scripture of the Middle Age. Luther found this authority
in his way and disposed of it in short order, devoting Aristotle without ceremony to the Devil,
as "a damned mischief-making heathen." But Leibnitz, whose large discourse looked before as
well as after, reinstated not only Aristotle, but Plato, and others of the Greek philosophers,
in their former repute;--"Car ces anciens," he said, "etaient plus solides qu'on ne croit."
He was the first to turn the tide of popular opinion in their favor.

Not without a struggle was he brought to side with the Nominalists. Musing, when a boy, in
the Rosenthal, near Leipzig, he debated long with himself,--"Whether he would give up the Substantial
Forms of the Schoolmen." Strange matter for boyish deliberation! Yes, good youth, by all means,
give them up! They have had their day. They served to amuse the imprisoned intellect of Christendom
in times of ecclesiastical thraldom, when learning knew no other vocation. But the age into
which you are born has its own problems, of nearer interest and more commanding import. The
measuring-reed of science is to be laid to the heavens, the solar system is to be weighed in
a balance; the age of logical quiddities has passed, the age of mathematical quantities has
come. Give them up! You will soon have enough to do to take care of your own. What with Dynamics
and Infinitesimals, Pasigraphy and Dyadik, Monads and Majesties, Concilium AEgyptiacum and
Spanish Succession and Hanoverian cabals, there will be scant room in that busy brain for Substantial
Forms. Let them sleep, dust to dust, with the tomes of Duns Scotus and the bones of Aquinas!

The "De Principio Individui" was the last treatise of any note in the sense and style of the
old scholastic philosophy. It was also one of the last blows aimed at scholasticism, which,
long undermined by the Saxon Reformation, received its coup de grace a century later from the
pen of an English wit. "Cornelius," says the author of "Martinus Scriblerus," told Martin that
a shoulder of mutton was an individual; which Crambe denied, for he had seen it cut into commons.
'That's true,' quoth the Tutor, 'but you never saw it cut into shoulders of mutton.' 'If it
could be,' quoth Crambe, 'it would be the loveliest individual of the University.' When he
was told that a substance was that which is subject to accidents: 'Then soldiers,' quoth Crambe,
'are the most substantial people in the world.' Neither would he allow it to be a good definition
of accident, that it could be present or absent without the destruction of the subject, since
there are a great many accidents that destroy the subject, as burning does a house and death
a man. But as to that, Cornelius informed him that there was a natural death and a logical
death; and that though a man after his natural death was incapable of the least parish office,
yet he might still keep his stall among the logical predicaments....

Crambe regretted extremely that Substantial Forms, a race of harmless beings which had lasted
for many years and had afforded a comfortable subsistence to many poor philosophers, should
now be hunted down like so many wolves, without the possibility of retreat. He considered that
it had gone much harder with them than with the Essences, which had retired from the schools
into the apothecaries' shops, where some of them had been advanced into the degree of Quintessences.
He thought there should be a retreat for poor substantial forms amongst the gentlemen-ushers
at court; and that there were, indeed, substantial forms, such as forms of prayer and forms
of government, without which the things themselves could never long subsist....

Metaphysics were a large field in which to exercise the weapons which logic had put in their
hands. Here Martin and Crambe used to engage like any prizefighters. And as prize-fighters
will agree to lay aside a buckler, or some such defensive weapon, so Crambe would agree not
to use simpliciter and secundum quid, if Martin would part with materialiter and formaliter.
But it was found, that, without the defensive armor of these distinctions, the arguments cut
so deep that they fetched blood at every stroke. Their theses were picked out of Suarez, Thomas
Aquinas, and other learned writers on those subjects.... One, particularly, remains undecided
to this day,-- 'An praeter esse reale actualis essentiae sit alind esse necessarium quo res
actualiter existat?' In English thus: 'Whether, besides the real being of actual being, there
be any other being necessary to cause a thing to be?' [8]

[Footnote 8: Memoirs of Martinus Scriblerus. Chap. VII.]

Arrived at maturity, Leibnitz rose at once to classic eminence. He became a conspicuous figure,
he became a commanding power, not only in the intellectual world, of which he constituted himself
the centre, but in part also of the civil. It lay in the nature of his genius to prove all
things, and it lay in his temperament to seek rapport with all sorts of men. He was infinitely
related;--not an individual of note in his day but was linked with him by some common interest
or some polemic grapple; not a savant or statesman with whom Leibnitz did not spin, on one
pretence or another, a thread of communication. Europe was reticulated with the meshes of his
correspondence. "Never," says Voltaire, "was intercourse among philosophers more universal;
Leibnitz servait a l'animer." He writes now to Spinoza at the Hague, to suggest new methods
of manufacturing lenses,--now to Magliabecchi at Florence, urging, in elegant Latin verses,
the publication of his bibliographical discoveries,--and now to Grimaldi, Jesuit missionary
in China, to communicate his researches in Chinese philosophy. He hoped by means of the latter
to operate on the Emperor Cham-Hi with the Dyadik; [9] and even suggested said Dyadik as a
key to the cipher of the book "Ye Kim," supposed to contain the sacred mysteries of Fo. He
addresses Louis XIV., now on the subject of a military expedition to Egypt, (a magnificent
idea, which it needed a Napoleon to realize,) now on the best method of promoting and conserving
scientific knowledge. He corresponds with the Landgrave of Hesse-Rheinfels, with Bossuet, and
with Madame Brinon on the Union of the Catholic and Protestant Churches, and with Privy-Counsellor
von Spanheim on the Union of the Lutheran and Reformed,--with Pere Des Bosses on Transubstantiation,
and with Samuel Clarke on Time and Space,--with Remond de Montmort on Plato, and with Franke
on Popular Education,-- with the Queen of Prussia (his pupil) on Free-will and Predestination,
and with the Electress Sophia, her mother, (in her eighty-fourth year,) on English Politics,--with
the cabinet of Peter the Great on the Slavonic and Oriental Languages, and with that of the
German Emperor on the claims of George Lewis to the honors of the Electorate,--and finally,
with all the savans of Europe on all possible scientific questions.

[Footnote 9: A species of binary arithmetic, invented by Leibnitz, in which the only figures
employed are 0 and 1.--See KORTHOLT'S G.C. Leibnitii Epistolae ad Divarsos, Letter XVIII.]

Of this world-wide correspondence a portion related to the sore subject of his litigated claim
to originality in the discovery of the Differential Calculus,--a matter in which Leibnitz felt
himself grievously wronged, and complained with justice of the treatment he received at the
hands of his contemporaries. The controversy between him and Newton, respecting this hateful
topic, would never have originated with either of these illustrious men, had it depended on
them alone to vindicate their respective claims. Officious and ill-advised friends of the English
philosopher, partly from misguided zeal and partly from levelled malice, preferred on his behalf
a charge of plagiarism against the German, which Newton was not likely to have urged for himself.
"The new Calculus, which Europe lauds, is nothing less," they suggested, "than your fluxionary
method, which Mr. Leibnitz has pirated, anticipating its tardy publication by the genuine author.
Why suffer your laurels to be wrested from you by a stranger?" Thereupon arose the notorious
Commercium Epistolicum, in which Wallis, Fatio de Duillier, Collins, and Keill were perversely
active. Melancholy monument of literary and national jealousy! Weary record of a vain strife!
Ideas are no man's property. As well pretend to ownership of light, or set up a claim to private
estate in the Holy Ghost. The Spirit blows where it lists. Truth inspires whom it finds. He
who knows best to conspire with it has it. Both philosophers swerved from their native simplicity
and nobleness of soul. Both sinned and were sinned against. Leibnitz did unhandsome things,
but he was sorely tried. His heart told him that the right of the quarrel was on his side,
and the general stupidity would not see it. The general malice, rejoicing in aspersion of a
noble name, would not see it. The Royal Society would not see it,--nor France, until long after
Leibnitz's death. Sir David Brewster's account of the matter, according to the German authorities,
Gerhardt, Guhrauer, and others, is one-sided, and sins by suppressio veri, ignoring important
documents, particularly Leibnitz's letter to Oldenburg, August 27, 1676. Gerhardt has published
Leibnitz's own history of the Calculus as a counter-statement. [10] But even from Brewster's
account, as we remember it, (we have it not by us at this writing.) there is no more reason
to doubt that Leibnitz's discovery was independent of Newton's than that Newton's was independent
of Leibnitz's. The two discoveries, in fact, are not identical; the end and application are
the same, but origin and process differ, and the German method has long superseded the English.
The question in debate has been settled by supreme authority. Leibnitz has been tried by his
peers. Euler, Lagrange, Laplace, Poisson, and Biot have honorably acquitted him of plagiarism,
and reinstated him in his rights as true discoverer of the Differential Calculus.

[Footnote 10: Historia et Oriffo Calculi Differenttalis, a G. G. LEIBNITIO conscripts.]

The one distinguishing trait of Leibnitz's genius, and the one predominant fact in his history,
was what Feuerbach calls his [Greek: polupraguoshinae], which, being interpreted, means having
a finger in every pie. We are used to consider him as a man of letters; but the greater part
of his life was spent in labors of quite another kind. He was more actor than writer. He wrote
only for occasions, at the instigation of others, or to meet some pressing demand of the time.
Besides occupying himself with mechanical inventions, some of which (in particular, his improvement
of Pascal's Calculating Machine) were quite famous in their day,--besides his project of a
universal language, and his labors to bring about a union of the churches,-- besides undertaking
the revision of the laws of the German Empire, superintending the Hanoverian mines, experimenting
in the culture of silk, directing the medical profession, laboring in the promotion of popular
education, establishing academies of science, superintending royal libraries, ransacking the
archives of Germany and Italy to find documents for his history of the House of Brunswick,
a work of immense research [11],--besides these, and a multitude of similar and dissimilar
avocations, he was deep in politics, German and European, and was occupied all his life long
with political negotiations. He was a courtier, he was a diplomat, was consulted on all difficult
matters of international policy, was employed at Hanover, at Berlin, at Vienna, in the public
and secret service of ducal, royal, and imperial governments, and charged with all sorts of
delicate and difficult commissions,--matters of finance, of pacification, of treaty and appeal.
He was Europe's factotum. A complete biography of the man would be an epitome of the history
of his time. The number and variety of his public engagements were such as would have crazed
any ordinary brain. And to these were added private studies not less multifarious. "I am distracted
beyond all account," he writes to Vincent Placcius. "I am making extracts from archives, inspecting
ancient documents, hunting up unpublished manuscripts; all this to illustrate the history of
Brunswick. Letters in great number I receive and write. Then I have so many discoveries in
mathematics, so many speculations in philosophy, so many other literary observations, which
I am desirous of preserving, that I am often at a loss what to take hold of first, and can
fairly sympathize in that saying of Ovid, 'I am straitened by my abundance.' [12]"

[Footnote 11: Annals Imperii Occidents Brunsvicensis. Leibnitz succeeded in discovering at
Modena the lost traces of that connection between the lines of Brunswick and Esto which had
been surmised, but not proved.]

[Footnote 12: "Quam mirifice sim distractus dici non potest. Varia ex archivis eruo, antiquas
chartns inspicio, manuscripta inedita conquiro. Ex hic lucem dare conor Brunsvicensi historiae.
Magno numero litteras et accipio et dimitto. Habeo vero tam multa nova in mathematicis, tot
cogitationes in philosophicis, tot alias literarias observationes, quas vellem non perire,
ut saepe inter agenda anceps haeream et prope illud Ovidianum sentiam: Iniopem me copia facit."]

His diplomatic services are less known at present than his literary labors, but were not less
esteemed in his own day. When Louis XIV., in 1688, declared war against the German Empire,
on the pretence that the Emperor was meditating an invasion of France, Leibnitz drew up the
imperial manifesto, which repelled the charge and triumphantly exposed the hollowness of Louis's
cause. Another document, prepared by him at the solicitation, it is supposed, of several of
the courts of Europe, advocating the claims of Charles of Austria to the vacant throne of Spain,
in opposition to the grandson of Louis, and setting forth the injurious consequences of the
policy of the French monarch, was hailed by his contemporaries as a masterpiece of historical
learning and political wisdom. By his powerful advocacy of the cause of the Elector of Brandenburg
he may be said to have aided the birth of the kingdom of Prussia, whose existence dates with
the commencement of the last century. In the service of that kingdom he wrote and published
important state-papers; among them, one relating to a point of contested right to which recent
events have given fresh significance: "Traite: Sommaire du Droit de Frederic I. Roi de Prusse
a la Souverainete de Neufchatel et de Vallengin en Suisse."

In Vienna, as at Berlin, the services of Leibnitz were subsidized by the State. By the Peace
of Utrecht, the house of Habsburg had been defeated in its claims to the Spanish throne, and
the foreign and internal affairs of the Austrian government were involved in many perplexities,
which, it was hoped, the philosopher's counsel might help to untangle. He was often present
at the private meetings of the cabinet, and received from the Emperor the honorable distinction
of Kaiserlicher Hofrath, in addition to that, which had previously been awarded to him, of
Baron of the Empire. The highest post in the gift of government was open to him, on condition
of renouncing his Protestant faith, which, notwithstanding his tolerant feeling toward the
Roman Church, and the splendid compensations which awaited such a convertite, he could never
be prevailed upon to do.

A natural, but very remarkable consequence of this manifold activity and lifelong absorption
in public affairs was the failure of so great a thinker to produce a single systematic and
elaborate work containing a complete and detailed exposition of his philosophical, and especially
his ontological views. For such an exposition Leibnitz could find at no period of his life
the requisite time and scope. In the vast multitude of his productions there is no complete
philosophic work. The most arduous of his literary labors are historical compilations, made
in the service of the State. Such were the "History of the House of Brunswick," already mentioned,
the "Accessiones Historiae," the "Scriptores Rerum Brunsvicensium Illustrationi inservientes,"
and the "Codex Juris Gentium Diplomaticus";-- works involving an incredible amount of labor
and research, but adding little to his posthumous fame. His philosophical studies, after entering
the Hanoverian service, which he did in his thirtieth year, were pursued, as he tells his correspondent
Placcius, by stealth,--that is, at odd moments snatched from official duties and the cares
of state. Accordingly, his metaphysical works have all a fragmentary character. Instead of
systematic treatises, they are loose papers, contributions to journals and magazines, or sketches
prepared for the use of friends. They are all occasional productions, elicited by some external
cause, not prompted by inward necessity. The "Nouveaux Essais," his most considerable work
in that department, originated in comments on Locke, and was not published until after his
death. The "Monadology" is a series of propositions drawn up for the use of Prince Eugene,
and was never intended to be made public. And, probably, the "Theodicee" would never have seen
the light except for his cultivated and loved pupil, the Queen of Prussia, for whose instruction
it was designed.

It is a curious fact, and a good illustration of the state of letters in Germany at that time,
that Leibnitz wrote so little-- almost nothing of importance--in his native tongue. In Erdmann's
edition of his philosophical works there are only two short essays in German; the rest are
all Latin or French. He had it in contemplation at one time to establish a philosophical journal
in Berlin, but doubts, in his letter to M. La Croye on the subject, in what language it should
be conducted: "Il y a quelque tems que j'ay pense a un journal de Savans qu'on pourroit publier
a Berlin, mais je suis un peu en doute sur la langue ... Mais soit qu'on prit le Latin ou le
Francois," [13] etc. It seems never to have occurred to him that such a journal might be published
in German. That language was then, and for a long time after, regarded by educated Germans
very much as the Russian is regarded at the present day, as the language of vulgar life, unsuited
to learned or polite intercourse. Frederic the Great, a century later, thought as meanly of
its adaptation to literary purposes as did the contemporaries of Leibnitz. When Gellert, at
his request, repeated to him one of his fables, he expressed his surprise that anything so
clever could be produced in German. It may be said in apology for this neglect of their native
tongue, that the German scholars of that age would have had a very inadequate audience, had
their communications been confined to that language. Leibnitz craved and deserved a wider sphere
for his thoughts than the use of the German could give him. It ought, however, to be remembered
to his credit, that, as language in general was one among the numberless topics he investigated,
so the German in particular engaged at one time his special attention. It was made the subject
of a disquisition, which suggested to the Berlin Academy, in the next century, the method adopted
by that body for the culture and improvement of the national speech. In this writing, as in
all his German compositions, he manifested a complete command of the language, and imparted
to it a purity and elegance of diction very uncommon in his day. The German of Leibnitz is
less antiquated at this moment than the English of his contemporary, Locke.

[Footnote 13: KORTHOLT. Epistolae ad Diversos, Vol. I.]

LEIBNITZ'S PHILOSOPHY.

The interest to us in this extraordinary man--who died at Hanover, 1716, in the midst of his
labors and projects--turns mainly on his speculative philosophy. It was only as an incidental
pursuit that he occupied himself with metaphysic; yet no philosopher since Aristotle-- with
whom, though claiming to be more Platonic than Aristotelian, he has much in common--has furnished
more luminous hints to the elucidation of metaphysical problems. The problems he attempted
were those which concern the most inscrutable, but, to the genuine metaphysician, most fascinating
of all topics, the nature of substance, matter and spirit, absolute being,--in a word, Ontology.
This department of metaphysic, the most interesting, and, agonistically [14], the most important
branch of that study, has been deliberately, purposely, and, with one or two exceptions, uniformly
avoided by the English metaphysicians so-called, with Locke at their head, and equally by their
Scottish successors, until the recent "Institutes" of the witty Professor of St. Andrew's.
Locke's "Essay concerning the Human Understanding," a century and a half ago, diverted the
English mind from metaphysic proper into what is commonly called Psychology, but ought, of
right, to be termed Noology, or "Philosophy of the Human Mind," as Dugald Stewart entitled
his treatise. This is the study which has usually taken the place of metaphysic at Cambridge
and other colleges,--the science that professes to show "how ideas enter the mind"; which,
considering the rareness of the occurrence with the mass of mankind, we cannot regard as a
very practical inquiry. We well remember our disappointment, when, at the usual stage in the
college curriculum, we were promised "metaphysics" and were set to grind in Stewart's profitless
mill, where so few problems of either practical or theoretical importance are brought to the
hopper, and where, in fact, the object is rather to show how the upper mill-stone revolves
upon the nether, (reflection upon sensation,) and how the grist is conveyed to the feeder,
than to realize actual metaphysical flour.

[Footnote 14: That is, as a discipline of the faculties,--the chief benefit to be derived from
any kind of metaphysical study.]

Locke's reason for repudiating ontology is the alleged impossibility of arriving at truth in
that pursuit,--"of finding satisfaction in a quiet and sure possession of truths that most
concern us, whilst we let loose our thoughts into the vast ocean of being." [15] Unfortunately,
however, as Kant has shown, the results of nooelogical inquiry are just as questionable as
those of ontology, whilst the topics on which it is employed are of far inferior moment. If,
as Locke intimates, we can know nothing of being without first analyzing the understanding,
it is equally sure that we can know nothing of the understanding except in union with and in
action on being. And excepting his own fundamental position concerning the sensuous origin
of our ideas,--to which few, since Kant, will assent,-- there is hardly a theorem, in all the
writings of this school, of prime and vital significance. The school is tartly, but aptly,
characterized by Professor Ferrier: "Would people inquire directly into the laws of thought
and of knowledge by merely looking to knowledge or to thought itself, without attending to
what is known or what is thought of? Psychology usually goes to work in this abstract fashion;
but such a mode of procedure is hopeless,--as hopeless as the analogous instance by which the
wits of old were wont to typify any particularly fruitless undertaking,--namely, the operation
of milking a he-goat into a sieve. No milk comes, in the first place, and even that the sieve
will not retain! There is a loss of nothing twice over. Like the man milking, the inquirer
obtains no milk in the first place; and, in the second place, he loses it, like the man holding
the sieve.... Our Scottish philosophy, in particular, has presented a spectacle of this description.
Reid obtained no result, owing to the abstract nature of his inquiry, and the nothingness of
his system has escaped through all the sieves of his successors." [16]

[Footnote 15: Essay, Book I. Chap. 1, Sect. 7.]

[Footnote 16: Institutes of Metaphysic, p. 301.]

Leibnitz's metaphysical speculations are scattered through a wide variety of writings, many
of which are letters to his contemporaries. These Professor Erdmann has incorporated in his
edition of the Philosophical Works. Beside these we may mention, as particularly deserving
of notice, the "Meditationes de Cognitione, Veritate et Ideis", the "Systeme Nouveau de la
Nature", "De Primae Philosophiae Emendatione et de Notione Substantiae", "Reflexions sur l'Essai
de l'Entendement humain", "De Rerum Originatione Radicali", "De ipsa Natura", "Considerations
sur la Doctrine d'un Esprit universel", "Nouveaux Essais sur l'Entendement humain", "Considerations
sur le Principe de Vie". To these we must add the "Theodicee" (though more theological than
metaphysical) and the "Monadologie", the most compact philosophical treatise of modern time.
It is worthy of note, that, writing in the desultory, fragmentary, and accidental way he did,
he not only wrote with unexampled clearness on matters the most abstruse, but never, that we
are aware, in all the variety of his communications, extending over so many years, contradicted
himself. No philosopher is more intelligible, none more consequent.

In philosophy, Leibnitz was a Realist. We use that term in the modern, not in the scholastic
sense. In the scholastic sense, as we have seen, he was not a Realist, but, from childhood
up, a Nominalist. But the Realism of the schools has less affinity with the Realism than with
the Idealism of the present day.

His opinions must be studied in connection with those of his contemporaries.

Des Cartes, Spinoza, Locke, and Leibnitz, the four most distinguished philosophers of the seventeenth
century, represent four widely different and cardinal tendencies in philosophy: Dualism, Idealism,
Sensualism, and Realism.

Des Cartes perceived the incompatibility of the two primary qualities of being, thought and
extension, as attributes of one and the same (created) substance. He therefore postulated two
(created) substances,--one characterized by thought without extension, the other by extension
without thought. These two are so alien and so incongruous, that neither can influence the
other, or determine the other, or any way relate with the other, except by direct mediation
of Deity. (The doctrine of Occasional Causes.) This is Dualism,-- that sharp and rigorous antithesis
of mind and matter, which Des Cartes, if he did not originate it, was the first to develop
into philosophic significance, and which ever since has been the prevailing ontology of the
Western world. So deeply has the thought of that master mind inwrought itself into the very
consciousness of humanity!

Spinoza saw, that, if God alone can bring mind and matter together and effect a relation between
them, it follows that mind and matter, or their attributes, however contrary, do meet in Deity;
and if so, what need of three distinct natures? What need of two substances beside God, as
subjects of these attributes? Retain the middle term and drop the extremes and you have the
Spinozan doctrine of one (uncreated) substance, combining the attributes of thought and extension.
This is Pantheism, or objective idealism, as distinguished from the subjective idealism of
Fichte. Strange, that the stigma of atheism should have been affixed to a system whose very
starting-point is Deity and whose great characteristic is the ignoration of everything but
Deity, insomuch that the pure and devout Novalis pronounced the author a God-drunken man, and
Spinozism a surfeit of Deity. [17]

[Footnote 17: Let us not be misunderstood. Pantheism is not Theism, and the one substance of
Spinoza is very unlike the one God of theology; but neither is the doctrine Atheism in any
legitimate sense.]

Naturally enough, the charge of atheism comes from the unbelieving Bayle, whose omnivorous
mind, like the anaconda, assisted its enormous deglutition with a poisonous saliva of its own,
and whose negative temper makes the "Dictionnaire Historique" more Morgue than Valhalla.

Locke, who combined in a strange union strong religious faith with philosophic unbelief, turned
aside, as we have seen, from the questions which had occupied his predecessors; knew little
and cared less about substance and accident, matter and spirit; but set himself to investigate
the nature of the organ itself by which truth is apprehended. In this investigation he began
by emptying the mind of all native elements of knowledge. He repudiated any supposed dowry
of original truths or innate or connate ideas, and endeavored to show how, by acting on the
report of the senses and personal experience, the understanding arrives at all the ideas of
which it is conscious. The mode of procedure in this case is empiricism; the result with Locke
was sensualism,--more fully developed by Condillac, [18] in the next century. But the same
method may lead, as in the case of Berkeley, to immaterialism, falsely called idealism. Or
it may lead, as in the case of Helveticus, to materialism. Locke himself would probably have
landed in materialism, had he followed freely the bent of his own thought, without the restraints
of a cautious temper, and respect for the common and traditional opinion of his time. With
such notions of the nature of thought, as a kind of mechanical contrivance, that can be conferred
outright by an arbitrary act of Deity, and attached to one nature as well as another, it is
evident that Locke could have had no idea of spirit as conceived by metaphysicians,--or no
belief in that idea, if conceived. And with such conceptions of Deity and Divine operations,
as consisting in absolute power dissociated from absolute reason, one would not be surprised
to find him asserting, that God, if he pleased, might make two and two to be one, instead of
four,--that mathematical laws are arbitrary determinations of the Supreme Will,--that a thing
is true only as God wills it to be so,--in fine, that there is no such thing as absolute truth.
The resort to "Omnipotency" in such matters is more convenient than philosophical; it is a
dodging of the question, instead of an attempt to solve it. Divine ordination--"[Greek: Doz
d' etelevto Bonlae]"--is a maxim which settles all difficulties. But it also precludes all
inquiry. Why speculate at all, with this universal solvent at hand?

[Footnote 18: Essai sur l'Origine du Connaissances humaines. Book IV. Chap. 3, Sect. 6.]

The "contradiction" which Locke could not see was clearly seen and keenly felt by Leibnitz.
The arbitrary will of God, to him, was no solution. He believed in necessary truths independent
of the Supreme Will; in other words, he believed that the Supreme Will is but the organ of
the Supreme Reason: "Il ne faut point s'imaginer, que les verites eternelles, etant dependantes
de Dieu, sont arbitrages et dependent de sa volonte." He felt, with Des Cartes, the incompatibility
of thought with extension, considered as an immanent quality of substance, and he shared with
Spinoza the unific propensity which distinguishes the higher order of philosophic minds. Dualism
was an offence to him. On the other hand, he differed from Spinoza in his vivid sense of individuality,
of personality. The pantheistic idea of a single, sole being, of which all other beings are
mere modalities, was also and equally an offence to him. He saw well the illusoriness and unfruitfulness
of such a universe as Spinoza dreamed. He saw it to be a vain imagination, a dream-world, "without
form and void," nowhere blossoming into reality. The philosophy of Leibnitz is equally remote
from that of Des Cartes on the one hand, and from that of Spinoza on the other. He diverges
from the former on the question of substance, which Des Cartes conceived as consisting of two
kinds, one active (thinking) and one passive (extended), but which Leibnitz conceives to be
all and only active. He explodes Dualism, and resolves the antithesis of matter and spirit
by positing extension as a continuous act instead of a passive mode, substance as an active
force instead of an inert mass,--matter as substance appearing, communicating,--as the necessary
band and relation of spirits among themselves. [19]

[Footnote 19: The following passages may serve as illustrations of these positions:--

"Materia habet de so actum entitativum."--De Princip. Indiv. Coroll. I.

"Dicam interim notionem virium seu virtutis, (quam Germani vocant Kraft, Galli, la force,)
cui ego explicandae peculiarem Dynamices scientiam destinavi, plurimum lucis afferre ad veram
notionem substantiae intelligendam."--De Primae Philosoph. Emendat, et de Notione Substantiae.

"Corpus ergo est agens extensum; dici poterit esse substantiam extensam, modo teneatur omnem
substantiam agere, at omne agens substantiam appellari." "Patebit non tantum mentes, sed etiam
substantiae omnes in loco, non nisi per operationem esse."-- De Vera Method. Phil. et Theol.

"Extensionem concipere ut absolutum ex eo forte oritur quod spatium concipimus per modum substantiae"--Ad
Des Bosses Ep. XXIX.

"Car l'etendue ne signifie qu'une repetition ou multiplicite continuee de ce qui est repandu."--Extrait
d'une Lettre, etc.

"Et l'on peut dire que Petunduc est en quelque facon a l'espace comme la duree est au tems."--Exam.
des Principes de Malebranche.

"La nature de la substance consistant a mon avis dans cette tendance reglee de laquelle les
phenomenes naissent par ordre."--Lettre a M. Bayle.

"Car rien n'a mieux marque la substance que la puissance d'agir."-- Reponse aux Objections
du P. Lami.

"S'il n'y avait que des esprits, ils seraient sans la liaison necessaire, sans l'ordre des
tems et des lieux."--Theod. Sect. 120.]

He parts company with Spinoza on the question of individuality. Substance is homogeneous; but
substances, or beings, are infinite. Spinoza looked upon the universe and saw in it the undivided
background on which the objects of human consciousness are painted as momentary pictures. Leibnitz
looked and saw that background, like the background of one of Raphael's Madonnas, instinct
with individual life, and swarming with intelligences which look out from every point of space.
Leibnitz's universe is composed of Monads, that is, units, individual substances, or entities,
having neither extension, parts, nor figure, and, of course, indivisible. These are "the veritable
atoms of nature, the elements of things."

The Monad is unformed and imperishable; it has no natural end or beginning. It could begin
to be only by creation; it can cease to be only by annihilation. It cannot be affected from
without or changed in its interior by any other creature. Still, it must have qualities, without
which it would not be an entity. And monads must differ one from another, or there would be
no changes in our experience; since all that takes place in compound bodies is derived from
the simples which compose them. Moreover, the monad, though uninfluenced from without, is changing
continually; the change proceeds from an internal principle. Every monad is subject to a multitude
of affections and relations, although without parts. This shifting state, which represents
multitude in unity, is nothing else than what we call Perception, which must be carefully distinguished
from Apperception, or consciousness. And the action of the internal principle which causes
change in the monad, or a passing from one perception to another, is Appetition. The desire
does not always attain to the perception to which it tends, but it always effects something,
and causes a change of perceptions.

Leibnitz differs from Locke in maintaining that perception is inexplicable and inconceivable
on mechanical principles. It is always the act of a simple substance, never of a compound.
And "in simple substances there is nothing but perceptions and their changes." [20]

[Footnote 20: Menadol. 17.]

He differs from Locke, furthermore, on the question of the origin of ideas. This question,
he says, "is not a preliminary one in philosophy, and one must have made great progress to
be able to grapple successfully with it."--"Meanwhile, I think I may say, that our ideas, even
those of sensible objects, viennent de notre propre fond... I am by no means for the tabula
rasa of Aristotle; on the contrary, there is to me something rational (quelque chose de solide)
in what Plato called reminiscence. Nay, more than that, we have not only a reminiscence of
all our past thoughts, but we have also a presentiment of all our thoughts." [21]

[Footnote 21: Reflexions sur l'Essai de l'Entendement humain.]

Mr. Lewes, in his "Biographical History of Philosophy," speaks of the essay from which these
words are quoted, as written in "a somewhat supercilious tone." We are unable to detect any
such feature in it. That trait was wholly foreign from Leibnitz's nature. "Car je suis des
plus dociles," he says of himself, in this same essay. He was the most tolerant of philosophers.
"Je ne meprise presque rien."--"Nemo est ingenio minus quam ego censorio."-- "Mirum dictu:
probo pleraque quae lego."--"Non admodum refutationes quaerere aut legere soleo."

To return to the monads. Each monad, according to Leibnitz, is, properly speaking, a soul,
inasmuch as each is endowed with perception. But in order to distinguish those which have only
perception from those which have also sentiment and memory, he will call the latter souls,
the former monads or entelechies. [22]

[Footnote 22: Entelechy ([Greek: entelechia]) is an Aristotelian term, signifying activity,
or more properly perhaps, self action. Leibnitz understands by it something complete in itself
([Greek: echon to enteles]). Mr. Butler, in his History of Ancient Philosophy, lately reprinted
in this country, translates it "act." Function, we think would be a better rendering. (See
W. Archer Butler's Lectures, Last Series, Lect. 2.) Aristotle uses the word as a definition
of the soul. "The soul," he says, "is the first entelechy of an active body."]

The naked monad, he says, has perceptions without relief, or "enhanced flavor"; it is in a
state of stupor. Death, he thinks, may produce this state for a time in animals. The monads
completely fill the world; there is never and nowhere a void, and never complete inanimateness
and inertness. The universe is a plenum of souls. Wherever we behold an organic whole, (unum
per se,) there monads are grouped around a central monad to which they are subordinate, and
which they are constrained to serve so long as that connection lasts. Masses of inorganic matter
are aggregations of monads without a regent, or sentient soul (unum per accidens). There can
be no monad without matter, that is, without society, and no soul without a body. Not only
the human soul is indestructible and immortal, but also the animal soul. There is no generation
out of nothing, and no absolute death. Birth is expansion, development, growth; and death is
contraction, envelopment, decrease. The monads which are destined to become human souls have
existed from the beginning in organic matter, but only as sentient or animal souls, without
reason. They remain in this condition until the generation of the human beings to which they
belong, and then develope themselves into rational souls. The different organs and members
of the body are also relatively souls which collect around them a number of monads for a specific
purpose, and so on ad infinitum. Matter is not only infinitely divisible, but infinitely divided.
All matter (so called) is living and active. "Every particle of matter may be conceived as
a garden of plants, or as a pond full of fishes. But each branch of each plant, each member
of each animal, each drop of their humors, is in turn another such garden or pond." [23]

[Footnote 23: Monadol. 67.]

The connection between monads, consequently the connection between soul and body, is not composition,
but an organic relation,--in some sort, a spontaneous relation. The soul forms its own body,
and moulds it to its purpose. This hypothesis was afterward embraced and developed as a physiological
principle by Stahl. As all the atoms in one body are organically related, so all the beings
in the universe are organically related to each other and to the All. One creature, or one
organ of a creature, being given, there is given with it the world's history from the beginning
to the end. All bodies are strictly fluid; the universe is in flux.

The principle of continuity answers the same purpose in Leibnitz's system that the single substance
does in Spinoza's. It vindicates the essential unity of all being. Yet the two conceptions
are immeasurably different, and constitute an immeasurable difference between the two systems,
considered in their practical and moral bearings, as well as their ontological aspects. Spinoza
[24] starts with the idea of the Infinite, or the All-One, from which there is no logical deduction
of the individual. And in Spinoza's system the individual does not exist except as a modality.
But the existence of the individual is one of the primordial truths of the human mind, the
foremost fact of consciousness. With this, therefore, Leibnitz begins, and arrives, by logical
induction, to the Absolute and Supreme. Spinoza ends where he begins, in pantheism; the moral
result of his system, Godward, is fatalism,--manward, indifferentism and negation of moral
good and evil. Leibnitz ends in theism; the moral result of his system, Godward, is optimism,--manward,
liberty, personal responsibility, moral obligation.

[Footnote 24: See Helferich's Spinoza, und Leibnitz, p. 76.]

He demonstrates the being of God by the necessity of a sufficient reason to account for the
series of things. Each finite thing requires an antecedent or contingent cause. But the supposition
of an endless sequence of contingent causes, or finite things, is absurd; the series must have
had a beginning, and that beginning cannot have been a contingent cause or finite thing. "The
final reason of things must be found in a necessary substance in which the detail of changes
exists eminently, (ne soit qu'eminemment,) as in its source; and this is what we call God." [25]

[Footnote 25: Monadol. 38.]

The idea of God is of such a nature, that the being corresponding to it, if possible, must
be actual. We have the idea; it involves no bounds, no negation, consequently no contradiction.
It is the idea of a possible, therefore of an actual.

"God is the primitive Unity, or the simple original Substance of which all the creatures, or
original monads, are the products, and are generated, so to speak, by continual fulgurations
from moment to moment, bounded by the receptivity of the creature, of whose existence limitation
is an essential condition." [26]

[Footnote 26: Ib. 47.]

The philosophic theologian and the Christianizing philosopher will rejoice to find in this
proposition a point of reconciliation between the extramundane God of pure theism and the cardinal
principle of Spinozism, the immanence of Deity in creation,--a principle as dear to the philosophic
mind as that of the extramundane Divinity is to the theologian. The universe of Spinoza is
a self-existent unit, divine in itself, but with no Divinity behind it. That of Leibnitz is
an endless series of units from a self-existent and divine source. The one is an infinite deep,
the other an everlasting flood.

The doctrine of the Preestablished Harmony, so intimately and universally associated with the
name of Leibnitz, has found little favor with his critics, or even with his admirers. Feuerbach
calls it his weak side, and thinks that Leibnitz's philosophy, else so profound, was here,
as in other instances, overshadowed by the popular creed; that he accommodated himself to theology,
as a highly cultivated and intelligent man, conscious of his superiority, accommodates himself
to a lady in his conversation with her, translating his ideas into her language, and even paraphrasing
them. From this view of Leibnitz, as implying insincerity, we utterly dissent. [27]

[Footnote 27: See, in connection with this point, two admirable essays by Lessing,--the one
entitled Leibnitz on Eternal Punishment, the other Objections of Andreas Wissowatius to the
Doctrine of the Trinity. Of the latter the real topic is Leibnitz's Defensio Trinitatis. The
sharp-sighted Lessing, than whom no one has expressed a greater reverence for Leibnitz, emphatically
asserts and vigorously defends the philosopher's orthodoxy.]

The author of the "Theodicee" was not more interested in philosophy than he was in theology.
His thoughts and his purpose did equal justice to both. The deepest wish of his heart was to
reconcile them, not by formal treaty, but in loving and condign union. We do not, however,
object to an esoteric and exoteric view of the doctrine in question; and we quite agree with
Feuerbach that the phrase preetablie does not express a metaphysical determination. It is one
thing to say, that God, by an arbitrary decree from everlasting, has so predisposed and predetermined
every motion in the world of matter that each volition of a rational agent finds in the constant
procession of physical forces a concurrent event by which it is executed, but which would have
taken place without his volition, just as the mail-coach takes our letter, if we have one,
but goes all the same, when we do not write,--this is the gross, exoteric view,--and a very
different thing it is to say, that the monads composing the human system and the universe of
things are so related, adjusted, accommodated to each other, and to the whole, each being a
representative of all the rest and a mirror of the universe, that each feels all that passes
in the rest, and all conspire in every act, [28] more or less effectively, in the ratio of
their nearness to the prime agent. This is Leibnitz's idea of preestablished harmony, which,
perhaps, would be better expressed by the term "necessary consent." "In the ideas of God, each
monad has a right to demand that God, in regulating the rest from the commencement of things,
shall have regard to it; for since a created monad can have no physical influence on the interior
of another, it is only by this means that one can be dependent on another."--"The soul follows
its own laws and the body follows its own, and they meet in virtue of the preestablished harmony
which exists between all substances, as representatives of one and the same universe. Souls
act according to the laws of final causes by appetitions, etc. Bodies act according to the
laws of efficient causes or the laws of motion. And the two kingdoms, that of efficient causes
and that of final causes, harmonize with each other." [29]

[Footnote 28:  In this connection, Leibnitz quotes the remarkable saying of Hippocrates, [Greek:
Sumpnoia panta]. The universe breathes together, conspires.--Monadal. 61.]

[Footnote 29: Monadol. 78, 79.]

The Preestablished Harmony, then, is to be regarded as the philosophic statement of a fact,
and not as a theory concerning the cause of the fact. But, like all philosophic and adequate
statements, it answers the purpose of a theory, and clears up many difficulties. It is the
best solution we know of the old contradiction of free-will and fate,--individual liberty and
a necessary world. This antithesis disappears in the light of the Leibnitian philosophy, which
resolves freedom and necessity into different points of view and different stages of development.
The principle of the Preestablished Harmony was designed by Leibnitz to meet the difficulty,
started by Des Cartes, of explaining the conformity between the perceptions of the mind and
the corresponding affections of the body, since mind and matter, in his view, could have no
connection with, or influence on each other. The Cartesians explained this correspondence by
the theory of occasional causes, that is, by the intervention of the Deity, who was supposed
by his arbitrary will to have decreed a certain perception or sensation in the mind to go with
a certain affection of the body, with which, however, it had no real connection. "Car il" (that
is, M. Bayle) "est persuade avec les Cartesiens modernes, que les idees des qualites sensibles
que Dieu donne, selon eux, a l'ame, a l'occasion des mouvemens du corps, n'ont rien qui represente
ces mouvemens, ou qui leur ressemble; de sorte qu'il etoit purement arbitraire que Dieu nous
donnat les idees de la chaleur, du froid, de la lumiere et autres que nous experimentons, ou
qu'il nous en donnat de tout-autres a cette meme occasion." [30]

[Footnote 30: Theodicee. Partie II. 340.]

If the body was exposed to the flame, there was no more reason, according to this theory, why
the soul should be conscious of pain than of pleasure, except that God had so ordained. Such
a supposition was shocking to our philosopher, who could tolerate no arbitrariness in God and
no gap or discrepancy in nature, and who, therefore, sought to explain, by the nature of the
soul itself and its kindred monads, the correspondence for which so violent an hypothesis was
embraced by the Cartesians.

We have left ourselves no room to speak as we would of Leibnitz as theosopher. It was in this
character that he obtained, in the last century, his widest fame. The work by which he is most
commonly known, by which alone he is known to many, is the "Theodicee,"--an attempt to vindicate
the goodness of God against the cavils of unbelievers. He was one of the first to apply to
this end the cardinal principle of the Lutheran Reformation,--the liberty of reason. He was
one of the first to treat unbelief, from the side of religion, as an error of judgment, not
as rebellion against rightful authority. The latter was and is the Romanist view. The former
is the Protestant theory, but was not then, and is not always now, the Protestant practice.
Theology then was not concerned to vindicate the reason or the goodness of God. It gloried
in his physical strength by which he would finally crush dissenters from orthodoxy. Leibnitz
knew no authority independent of Reason, and no God but the Supreme Reason directing Almighty
Good-will. The philosophic conclusion justly deducible from this view of God, let cavillers
say what they will, is Optimism. Accordingly, Optimism, or the doctrine of the best possible
world, is the theory of the "Theodicee." Our limits will not permit us to analyze the argument
of this remarkable work. Bunsen says, "It necessarily failed because it was a not quite honest
compound of speculation and divinity." [31]

[Footnote 31: Outlines of the Philos. of Univ. Hist. Vol. I. Chap. 6.]

Few at the present day will pretend to be entirely satisfied with its reasoning, but all who
are familiar with it know it to be a treasury of wise and profound thoughts and of noble sentiments
and aspirations. Bonnet, the naturalist, called it his "Manual of Christian Philosophy"; and
Fontenelle, in his eulogy, speaks enthusiastically of its luminous and sublime views, of its
reasonings, in which the mind of the geometer is always apparent, of its perfect fairness toward
those whom it controverts, and its rich store of anecdote and illustration. Even Stewart, who
was not familiar with it, and who, as might be expected, strangely misconceives and misrepresents
the author, is compelled to echo the general sentiment. He pronounces it a work in which are
combined together in an extraordinary degree "the acuteness of the logician, the imagination
of the poet, and the impenetrable yet sublime darkness of the metaphysical theologian." The
Italics are ours. Our reason for doubting Stewart's familiarity with the "Theodicee," and with
Leibnitz in general, is derived in part from these phrases. We do not believe that any sincere
student of Leibnitz has found him dark and impenetrable. Be it a merit or a fault, this predicate
is inapplicable. Never was metaphysician more explicit and more intelligible. Had he been disposed
to mysticize and to shroud himself in "impenetrable darkness," he would have found it difficult
to indulge that propensity in French. Thanks to the strict regime and happy limitations of
that idiom, the French is not a language in which philosophy can hide itself. It is a tight-fitting
coat, which shows the exact form, or want of form, of the thought it clothes, without pad or
fold to simulate fulness or to veil defects. It was a Frenchman, we are aware, who discovered
that "the use of language is to conceal thought"; but that use, so far as French is concerned,
has been hitherto monopolized by diplomacy.

Another reason for questioning Stewart's familiarity with Leibnitz is his misconception of
that author, which we choose to impute to ignorance rather than to wilfulness. This misconception
is strikingly exemplified in a prominent point of Leibnitian philosophy. Stewart says: "The
zeal of Leibnitz in propagating the dogma of Necessity is not easily reconcilable with the
hostility which he uniformly displays against the congenial doctrine of Materialism." [32]

[Footnote 32: General View of the Prog. of Metaph. Eth. and Polit. Phil. Boston: 1822. p. 75.]

Now it happens that "the zeal of Leibnitz" was exerted in precisely the opposite direction.
A considerable section of the "Theodicee" (34-75) is occupied with the illustration and defence
of the Freedom of the Will. It was a doctrine on which he laid great stress, and which forms
an essential part of his system; [33] in proof of which, let one declaration stand for many:
"Je suis d'opinion que notre volonte n'est pas seulement exempte de la contrainte, mais encore
de la necessite." How far he succeeded in establishing that doctrine in accordance with the
rest of his system is another question. That he believed it and taught it is a fact of which
there can be no more doubt with those who have studied his writings, than there is that he
wrote the works ascribed to him. But the freedom of will maintained by Leibnitz was not indeterminism.
It was not the indifference of the tongue of the balance between equal weights, or that of
the ass between equal bundles of hay. Such an equilibrium he declares impossible. "Cet equilibre
en tout sens est impossible." Buridan's imaginary case of the ass is a fiction "qui ne sauroit
avoir lieu dans l'univers." [34]

[Footnote 33: "Numquam Leibnitio in mentem venisse libertatem velle evertere, in qua defendenda
quam maxime fuit occupatus, omnia scripta, precipue autem Theodicaea ejus, clamitant."--KORTHOLT,
Vol. IV. p. 12.]

[Footnote 34: Leibnitz seems to have been of the same mind with Dante:--

  "Intra duo cibi distanti e moventi
  D' un modo, prima si morria di fame
  Che liber' uomo l'un recasse a' denti."
  Parad, iv. 1.]

The will is always determined by motives, but not necessarily constrained by them. This is
his doctrine, emphatically stated and zealously maintained. We doubt if any philosopher, equally
profound and equally sincere, will ever find room in his conclusions for a greater measure
of moral liberty than the "Theodicee" has conceded to man. "In respect to this matter," says
Arthur Schopenhauer, "the great thinkers of all times are agreed and decided, just as surely
as the mass of mankind will never see and comprehend the great truth, that the practical operation
of liberty is not to be sought in single acts, but in the being and nature of man." [35]

[Footnote 35: Ueber den Willen in der Natur. FRANKFURT A.M. 1854. p. 22.]

Leibnitz's construction of the idea of a possible liberty consistent with the preestablished
order of the universe is substantially that of Schelling in his celebrated essay on this subject.
We must not dwell upon it, but hasten to conclude our imperfect sketch.

The ground-idea of the "Theodicee" is expressed in the phrase, "Best-possible world." Evil
is a necessary condition of finite being, but the end of creation is the realization of the
greatest possible perfection within the limits of the finite. The existing universe is one
of innumerable possible universes, each of which, if actualized, would have had a different
measure of good and evil. The present, rather than any other, was made actual, as presenting
to Divine Intelligence the smallest measure of evil and the greatest amount of good. This idea
is happily embodied in the closing apologue, designed to supplement one of Laurentius Valla,
a writer of the fifteenth century. Theodorus, priest of Zeus at Dodona, demands why that god
has permitted to Sextus the evil will which was destined to bring so much misery on himself
and others. Zeus refers him to his daughter Athene. He goes to Athens, is commanded to lie
down in the temple of Pallas, and is there visited with a dream. The vision takes him to the
Palace of Destinies, which contains the plans of all possible worlds. He examines one plan
after another; in each the same Sextus plays a different part and experiences a different fate.
The plans improve as he advances, till at last he comes upon one whose superior excellence
enchants him with delight. After revelling awhile in the contemplation of this perfect world,
he is told that this is the actual world in which he lives. But in this the crime of Sextus
is a necessary constituent; it could not be what it is as a whole, were it other than it is
in its single parts.

Whatever may be thought of Leibnitz's success in demonstrating his favorite doctrine, the theory
of Optimism commends itself to piety and reason as that view of human and divine things which
most redounds to the glory of God and best expresses the hope of man,--as the noblest and therefore
the truest theory of Divine rule and human destiny.

We recall at this moment but one English writer of supreme mark who has held and promulged,
in its fullest extent, the theory of Optimism. That one is a poet. The "Essay on Man," with
one or two exceptions, might almost pass for a paraphrase of the "Theodicee"; and Pope, with
characteristic vigor, has concentrated the meaning of that treatise in one word, which is none
the less true, in the sense intended, because of its possible perversion,--"Whatever is, is right."

       *       *       *       *       *

LOO LOO.

A FEW SCENES FROM A TRUE HISTORY. [Concluded.]

SCENE IV.

They had lived thus nearly a year, when, one day as they were riding on horseback, Alfred saw
Mr. Grossman approaching. "Drop your veil," he said, quickly, to his companion; for he could
not bear to have that Satyr even look upon his hidden flower. The cotton-broker noticed the
action, but silently touched his hat, and passed with a significant smile on his uncomely countenance.
A few days afterward, when Alfred had gone to his business in the city, Loo Loo strolled to
her favorite recess on the hill-side, and, lounging on the rustic seat, began to read the second
volume of "Thaddeus of Warsaw." She was so deeply interested in the adventures of the noble
Pole, that she forgot herself and all her surroundings. Masses of glossy dark hair fell over
the delicate hand that supported her head; her morning-gown, of pink French muslin, fell apart,
and revealed a white embroidered skirt, from beneath which obtruded one small foot, in an open-work
silk stocking; the slipper having fallen to the ground. Thus absorbed, she took no note of
time, and might have remained until summoned to dinner, had not a slight rustling disturbed
her. She looked up, and saw a coarse face peering at her between the pine boughs, with a most
disgusting expression. She at once recognized the man they had met during their ride; and starting
to her feet, she ran like a deer before the hunter. It was not till she came near the house,
that she was aware of having left her slipper. A servant was sent for it, but returned, saying
it was not to be found. She mourned over the loss, for the little pink kid slippers, embroidered
with silver, were a birth-day present from Alfred. As soon as he returned, she told him the
adventure, and went with him to search the arbor of pines. The incident troubled him greatly.
"What a noxious serpent, to come crawling into our Eden!" he exclaimed. "Never come here alone
again, dearest; and never go far from the house, unless Madame is with you."

Her circle of enjoyments was already small, excluded as she was from society by her anomalous
position, and educated far above the caste in which the tyranny of law and custom so absurdly
placed her. But it is one of the blessed laws of compensation, that the human soul cannot miss
that to which it has never been accustomed. Madame's motherly care, and Alfred's unvarying
tenderness, sufficed her cravings for affection; and for amusement, she took refuge in books,
flowers, birds, and those changes of natural scenery for which her lover had such quickness
of eye. It was a privation to give up her solitary rambles in the grounds, her inspection of
birds' nests, and her readings in that pleasant alcove of pines. But she more than acquiesced
in Alfred's prohibition. She said at once, that she would rather be a prisoner within the house
all her days than ever see that odious face again.

Mr. Noble encountered the cotton-broker, in the way of business, a few days afterward; but
his aversion to the unclean conversation of the man induced him to conceal his vexation under
the veil of common courtesy. He knew what sort of remarks any remonstrance would elicit, and
he shrank from subjecting Loo Loo's name to such pollution. For a short time, this prudent
reserve shielded him from the attacks he dreaded. But Mr. Grossman soon began to throw out
hints about the sly hypocrisy of Puritan Yankees, and other innuendoes obviously intended to
annoy him. At last, one day, he drew the embroidered slipper from his pocket, and, with a rakish
wink of his eye, said, "I reckon you have seen this before, Mr. Noble."

Alfred felt an impulse to seize him by the throat, and strangle him on the spot. But why should
he make a scene with such a man, and thus drag Loo Loo's name into painful notoriety? The old
roue was evidently trying to foment a quarrel with him. Thoroughly animal in every department
of his nature, he was boastful of brute courage, and prided himself upon having killed several
men in duels. Alfred conjectured his line of policy, and resolved to frustrate it. He therefore
coolly replied, "I have seen such slippers; they are very pretty"; and turned away, as if the
subject were indifferent to him.

"Coward!" muttered Grossman, as he left the counting-house. Mr. Noble did not hear him; and
if he had, it would not have altered his course. He could see nothing enviable in the reputation
of being ever ready for brawls, and a dead-shot in duels; and he knew that his life was too
important to the friendless Loo Loo to be thus foolishly risked for the gratification of a
villain. This incident renewed his old feelings of remorse for the false position in which
he had placed the young orphan, who trusted him so entirely. To his generous nature, the wrong
seemed all the greater because the object was so unconscious of it. "It is I who have subjected
her to the insolence of this vile man," he said within himself. "But I will repair the wrong.
Innocent, confiding soul that she is, I will protect her. The sanction of marriage shall shield
her from such affronts."

Alas for poor human nature! He was sincere in these resolutions, but he was not quite strong
enough to face the prejudices of the society in which he lived. Their sneers would have fallen
harmless. They could not take from him a single thing he really valued. But he had not learned
to understand that the dreaded power of public opinion is purely fabulous, when unsustained
by the voice of conscience. So he fell into the old snare of moral compromise. He thought the
best he could do, under the circumstances, was to hasten the period of his departure for the
North, to marry Loo Loo in Philadelphia, and remove to some part of the country where her private
history would remain unknown.

To make money for this purpose, he had more and more extended his speculations, and they had
uniformly proved profitable. If Mr. Grossman's offensive conduct had not forced upon him a
painful consciousness of his position with regard to the object of his devoted affection, he
would have liked to remain in Mobile a few years longer, and accumulate more; but, as it was,
he determined to remove as soon as he could arrange his affairs satisfactorily. He set about
this in good earnest. But, alas! the great pecuniary crash of 1837 was at hand. By every mail
came news of failures where he expected payments. The wealth, which seemed so certain a fact
a few months before, where had it vanished? It had floated away, like a prismatic bubble on
the breeze. He saw that his ruin was inevitable. All he owned in the world would not cancel
his debts. And now he recalled the horrible recollection that Loo Loo was a part of his property.
Much as he had blamed Mr. Duncan for negligence in not manumitting her mother, he had fallen
into the same snare. In the fulness of his prosperity and happiness, he did not comprehend
the risk he was running by delay. He rarely thought of the fact that she was legally his slave;
and when it did occur to him, it was always accompanied with the recollection that the laws
of Alabama did not allow him to emancipate her without sending her away from the State. But
this never troubled him, because there was always present with him that vision of going to
the North and making her his wife. So time slipped away, without his taking any precautions
on the subject; and now it was too late. Immersed in debt as he was, the law did not allow
him to dispose of anything without consent of creditors; and he owed ten thousand dollars to
Mr. Grossman. Oh, agony! sharp agony!

There was a meeting of the creditors. Mr. Noble rendered an account of all his property, in
which he was compelled to include Loo Loo; but for her he offered to give a note for fifteen
hundred dollars, with good endorsement, payable with interest in a year. It was known that
his attachment to the orphan he had educated amounted almost to infatuation; and his proverbial
integrity inspired so much respect, that the creditors were disposed to grant him any indulgence
not incompatible with their own interests. They agreed to accept the proffered note, all except
Mr. Grossman. He insisted that the girl should be put up at auction. For her sake, the ruined
merchant condescended to plead with him. He represented that the tie between them was very
different from the merely convenient connections which were so common; that Loo Loo was really
good and modest, and so sensitive by nature, that exposure to public sale would nearly kill
her. The selfish creditor remained inexorable. The very fact that this delicate flower had
been so carefully sheltered from the mud and dust of the wayside rendered her a more desirable
prize. He coolly declared, that ever since he had seen her in the arbor, he had been determined
to have her; and now that fortune had put the chance in his power, no money should induce him
to relinquish it.

The sale was inevitable; and the only remaining hope was that some friend might be induced
to buy her. There was a gentleman in the city whom I will call Frank Helper. He was a Kentuckian
by birth, kind and open-hearted,--a slave-holder by habit, not by nature. Warm feelings of
regard had long existed between him and Mr. Noble; and to him the broken merchant applied for
advice in this torturing emergency. Though Mr. Helper was possessed of but moderate wealth,
he had originally agreed to endorse his friend's note for fifteen hundred dollars; and he now
promised to empower some one to expend three thousand dollars in the purchase of Loo Loo.

"It is not likely that we shall be obliged to pay so much," said he. "Bad debts are pouring
in upon Grossman, and he hasn't a mint of money to spare just now, however big he may talk.
We will begin with offering fifteen hundred dollars; and she will probably be bid off for two
thousand."

"Bid off! O my God!" exclaimed the wretched man. He bowed his head upon his outstretched arms,
and the table beneath him shook with his convulsive sobs. His friend was unprepared for such
an overwhelming outburst of emotion. He did not understand, no one but Alfred himself could
understand, the peculiarity of the ties that bound him to that dear orphan. Recovering from
this unwonted mood, he inquired whether there was no possible way of avoiding a sale.

"I am sorry to say there is no way, my friend," replied Mr. Helper. "The laws invest this man
with power over you; and there is nothing left for us but to undermine his projects. It is
a hazardous business, as you well know. You must not appear in it; neither can I; for I am
known to be your intimate friend. But trust the whole affair to me, and I think I can bring
it to a successful issue."

The hardest thing of all was to apprise the poor girl of her situation. She had never thought
of herself as a slave; and what a terrible awakening was this from her dream of happy security!
Alfred deemed it most kind and wise to tell her of it himself; but he dreaded it worse than
death. He expected she would swoon; he even feared it might kill her. But love made her stronger
than he thought. When, after much cautious circumlocution, he arrived at the crisis of the
story, she pressed her hand hard upon her forehead, and seemed stupefied. Then she threw herself
into his arms, and they wept, wept, wept, till their heads seemed cracking with the agony.

"Oh, the avenging Nemesis!" exclaimed Alfred, at last. "I have deserved all this. It is all
my own fault. I ought to have carried you away from these wicked laws. I ought to have married
you. Truest, most affectionate of friends, how cruelly I have treated you! you, who put the
welfare of your life so confidingly into my hands!"

She rose up from his bosom, and, looking him lovingly in the face, replied,--

"Never say that, dear Alfred! Never have such a thought again! You have been the best and kindest
friend that woman ever had. If I forgot that I was a slave, is it strange that you should forget
it? But, Alfred, I will never be the slave of any other man,-- never! I will never be put on
the auction-stand. I will die first."

"Nay, dearest, you must make no rash resolutions," he replied. "I have friends who promise
to save you, and restore us to each other. The form of sale is unavoidable. So, for my sake,
consent to the temporary humiliation. Will you, darling?"

He had never before seen such an expression in her face. Her eyes flashed, her nostrils dilated,
and she drew her breath like one in the agonies of death. Then pressing his hand with a nervous
grasp, she answered,--

"For your sake, dear Alfred, I will."

From that time, she maintained outward calmness, while in his presence; and her inward uneasiness
was indicated only by a fondness more clinging than ever. Whenever she parted from him, she
kept him lingering, and lingering, on the threshold. She followed him to the road; she kissed
her hand to him till he was out of sight; and then her tears flowed unrestrained. Her mind
was filled with the idea that she should be carried away from the home of her childhood, as
she had been by the rough Mr. Jackson,--that she should become the slave of that bad man, and
never, never see Alfred again. "But I can die," she often said to herself; and she revolved
in her mind various means of suicide, in case the worst should happen.

Madame Labasse did not desert her in her misfortunes. She held frequent consultations with
Mr. Helper and his friends, and continually brought messages to keep up her spirits. A dozen
times a day, she repeated,--

"Tout sera bien arrange. Soyez tranquille, ma chere! Soyez tranquille!"

At last the dreaded day arrived. Mr. Helper had persuaded Alfred to appear to yield to necessity,
and keep completely out of sight. He consented, because Loo Loo had said she could not go through
with the scene, if he were present; and, moreover, he was afraid to trust his own nerves and
temper. They conveyed her to the auction-room, where she stood trembling among a group of slaves
of all ages and all colors, from iron-black to the lightest brown. She wore her simplest dress,
without ornament of any kind. When they placed her on the stand, she held her veil down, with
a close, nervous grasp.

"Come, show us your face," said the auctioneer. "Folks don't like to buy a pig in a poke, you
know."

Seeing that she stood perfectly still, with her head lowered upon her breast, he untied the
bonnet, pulled it off rudely, and held up her face to public view. There was a murmur of applause.

"Show your teeth," said the auctioneer. But she only compressed her mouth more firmly. After
trying in vain to coax her, he exclaimed,--

"Never mind, gentlemen. She's got a string of pearls inside them coral lips of hern. I can
swear to that, for I've seen 'em. No use tryin' to trot her out. She's a leetle set up, ye
see, with bein' made much of. Look at her, gentlemen! Who can blame her for bein' a bit proud?
She's a fust-rate fancy-article. Who bids?"

Before he had time to repeat the question, Mr. Grossman said, in a loud voice, "Fifteen hundred
dollars."

This was rather a damper upon Mr. Helper's agent, who bid sixteen hundred.

A voice from the crowd called out, "Eighteen hundred."

"Two thousand," shouted Mr. Grossman.

"Two thousand two hundred," said another voice.

"Two thousand five hundred," exclaimed Mr. Grossman.

"Two thousand eight hundred," said the incognito agent.

The prize was now completely given up to the two competitors; and the agent, excited by the
contest, went beyond his orders, until he bid as high as four thousand two hundred dollars.

"Four thousand five hundred," screamed the cotton-broker.

There was no use in contending with him. He was evidently willing to stake all his fortune
upon victory.

"Going! Going! Going!" repeated the auctioneer, slowly. There was a brief pause, during which
every pulsation in Loo Loo's body seemed to stop. Then she heard the horrible words, "Gone,
for four thousand five hundred dollars! Gone to Mr. Grossman!"

They led her to a bench at the other end of the room. She sat there, still as a marble statue,
and almost as pale. The sudden cessation of excited hope had so stunned her, that she could
not think. Everything seemed dark and reeling round her. In a few minutes, Mr. Grossman was
at her side.

"Come, my beauty," said he. "The carriage is at the door. If you behave yourself, you shall
be treated like a queen. Come, my love!"

He attempted to take her hand, but his touch roused her from her lethargy; and springing at
him, like a wild-cat, she gave him a blow in the face that made him stagger,--so powerful was
it, in the vehemence of her disgust and anger.

His coaxing tones changed instantly.

"We don't allow niggers to put on such airs," he said. "I'm your master. You've got to live
with me; and you may as well make up your mind to it first as last."

He glowered at her savagely for a moment; and drawing from his pocket an embroidered slipper,
he added,--

"Ever since I picked up this pretty thing, I've been determined to have you. I expected to
be obliged to wait till Noble got tired of you, and wanted to take up with another wench; but
I've had better luck than I expected."

At the sight of that gift of Alfred's in his hated hand, at the sound of those coarse words,
so different from his respectful tenderness, her pride broke down, and tears welled forth.
Looking up in his stern face, she said, in tones of the deepest pathos,--

"Oh, Sir, have pity on a poor, unfortunate girl! Don't persecute me!"

"Persecute you?" he replied. "No, indeed, my charmer! If you'll be kind to me, I'll treat you
like a princess."

He tried to look loving, but the expression was utterly revolting. Twelve years of unbridled
sensuality had rendered his countenance even more disgusting than it was when he shocked Alfred's
youthful soul by his talk about "Duncan's handsome wench."

"Come, my beauty," he continued, persuasively, "I'm glad to see you in a better temper. Come
with me, and behave yourself."

She curled her lip scornfully, and repeated,--

"I will never live with you! Never!"

"We'll see about that, my wench," said he. "I may as well take you down a peg, first as last.
If you'd rather be in the calaboose with niggers than to ride in a carriage with me, you may
try it, and see how you like it. I reckon you'll be glad to come to my terms, before long."

He beckoned to two police-officers, and said, "Take this wench into custody, and keep her on
bread and water, till I give further orders."

The jail to which Loo Loo was conveyed was a wretched place. The walls were dingy, the floor
covered with puddles of tobacco-juice, the air almost suffocating with the smell of pent-up
tobacco-smoke, unwashed negroes, and dirty garments. She had never seen any place so loathsome.
Mr. Jackson's log-house was a palace in comparison. The prison was crowded with colored people
of all complexions, and almost every form of human vice and misery was huddled together there
with the poor victims of misfortune. Thieves, murderers, and shameless girls, decked out with
tawdry bits of finery, were mixed up with modest-looking, heart-broken wives, and mothers mourning
for the children that had been torn from their arms in the recent sale. Some were laughing,
and singing lewd songs. Others sat still, with tears trickling down their sable cheeks. Here
and there the fierce expression of some intelligent young man indicated a volcano of revenge
seething within his soul. Some were stretched out drowsily upon the filthy floor, their natures
apparently stupefied to the level of brutes. When Loo Loo was brought in, most of them were
roused to look at her; and she heard them saying to each other, "By gum, dat ar an't no nigger!"
"What fur dey fotch her here?" "She be white lady ob quality, she be."

The tenderly-nurtured daughter of the wealthy planter remained in this miserable place two
days. The jailer, touched by her beauty and extreme dejection, offered her better food than
had been prescribed in his orders. She thanked him, but said she could not eat. When he invited
her to occupy, for the night, a small room apart from the herd of prisoners, she accepted the
offer with gratitude. But she could not sleep, and she dared not undress. In the morning, the
jailer, afraid of being detected in these acts of indulgence, told her, apologetically, that
he was obliged to request her to return to the common apartment.

Having recovered somewhat from the stunning effects of the blow that had fallen on her, she
began to take more notice of her companions. A gang of slaves, just sold, was in keeping there,
till it suited the trader's convenience to take them to New Orleans; and the parting scenes
she witnessed that day made an impression she never forgot. "Can it be," she said to herself,
"that such things have been going on around me all these years, and I so unconscious of them?
What should I now be, if Alfred had not taken compassion on me, and prevented my being sent
to the New Orleans market, before I was ten years old?" She thought with a shudder of the auction-scene
the day before, and began to be afraid that her friends could not save her from that vile man's
power.

She was roused from her reverie by the entrance of a white gentleman, whom she had never seen
before. He came to inspect the trader's gang of slaves, to see if any one among them would
suit him for a house-servant; and before long, he agreed to purchase a bright-looking mulatto
lad. He stopped before Loo Loo, and said, "Are you a good sempstress?"

"She's not for sale," answered the jailer. "She belongs to Mr. Grossman, who put her here for
disobedience." The man smiled, as he spoke, and Loo Loo blushed crimson.

"Ho, ho," rejoined the stranger. "I'm sorry for that. I should like to buy her, if I could."

He sauntered round the room, and took from his pocket oranges and candy, which he distributed
among the black picaninnies tumbling over each other on the dirty floor. Coming round again
to the place where she sat, he put an orange on her lap, and said, in low tones, "When they
are not looking at you, remove the peel"; and, touching his finger to his lip, significantly,
he turned away to talk with the jailer.

As soon as he was gone, she asked permission to go, for a few minutes, to the room she had
occupied during the night. There she examined the orange, and found that half of the skin had
been removed unbroken, a thin paper inserted, and the peel replaced. On the scrap of paper
was written: "When your master comes, appear to be submissive, and go with him. Plead weariness,
and gain time. You will be rescued. Destroy this, and don't seem more cheerful than you have
been." Under this was written, in Madame Labasse's hand, "Soyez tranquille, ma chere."

Unaccustomed to act a part, she found it difficult to appear so sad as she had been before
the reception of the note. But she did her best, and the jailer observed no change.

Late in the afternoon, Mr. Grossman made his appearance. "Well, my beauty," said he, "are you
tired of the calaboose? Don't you think you should like my house rather better?"

She yawned listlessly, and, without looking up, answered, "I am very tired of staying here."

"I thought so," rejoined her master, with a chuckling laugh. "I reckoned I should bring you
to terms. So you've made up your mind not to be cruel to a poor fellow so desperately in love
with you,-- haven't you?"

She made no answer, and he continued: "You're ready to go home with me,--are you?"

"Yes, Sir," she replied, faintly.

"Well, then, look up in my face, and let me have a peep at those devilish handsome eyes."

He chucked her under the chin, and raised her blushing face. She wanted to push him from her,
he was so hateful; but she remembered the mysterious orange, and looked him in the eye, with
passive obedience. Overjoyed at his success, he paid the jailer his fee, drew her arm within
his, and hurried to the carriage.

How many humiliations were crowded into that short ride! How she shrank from the touch of his
soft, swabby hand! How she loathed the gloating looks of the old Satyr! But she remembered
the orange, and endured it all stoically.

Arrived at his stylish house, he escorted her to a large chamber elegantly furnished.

"I told you I would treat you like a princess," he said; "and I will keep my word."

He would have seated himself; but she prevented him, saying, "I have one favor to ask, and
I shall be very grateful to you, if you will please to grant it."

"What is it, my charmer?" he inquired. "I will consent to anything reasonable."

She answered, "I could not get a wink of sleep in that filthy prison; and I am extremely tired.
Please leave me till to-morrow."

"Ah, why did you compel me to send you to that abominable place? It grieved me to cast such
a pearl among swine. Well, I want to convince you that I am a kind master; so I suppose I must
consent. But you must reward me with a kiss before I go."

This was the hardest trial of all; but she recollected the danger of exciting his suspicions,
and complied. He returned it with so much ardor, that she pushed him away impetuously; but
softening her manner immediately, she said, in pleading tones, "I am exceedingly tired; indeed
I am!"

He lingered, and seemed very reluctant to go; but when she again urged her request, he said,
"Good night, my beauty! I will send up some refreshments for you, before you sleep."

He went away, and she had a very uncomfortable sensation when she heard him lock the door behind
him. A prisoner, with such a jailer! With a quick movement of disgust, she rushed to the water-basin
and washed her lips and her hands; but she felt that the stain was one no ablution could remove.
The sense of degradation was so cruelly bitter, that it seemed to her as if she should die
for very shame.

In a short time, an elderly mulatto woman, with a pleasant face, entered, bearing a tray of
cakes, ices, and lemonade.

"I don't wish for anything to eat," said Loo Loo, despondingly.

"Oh, don't be givin' up, in dat ar way," said the mulatto, in kind, motherly tones. "De Lord
ain't a-gwine to forsake ye. Ye may jus' breeve what Aunt Debby tells yer. I'se a poor ole
nigger; but I hab 'sarved dat de darkest time is allers jus afore de light come. Eat some ob
dese yer goodies. Ye oughter keep yoursef strong fur de sake ob yer friends."

Loo Loo looked at her earnestly, and repeated, "Friends? How do you know I have any friends?"

"Oh, I'se poor ole nigger," rejoined the mulatto. "I don't knows nottin'."

The captive looked wistfully after her, as she left the room. She felt disappointed; for something
in the woman's ways and tones had excited a hope within her. Again the key turned on the outside;
but it was not long before Debby reappeared with a bouquet.

"Massa sent young Missis dese yer fowers," she said.

"Put them down," rejoined Loo Loo, languidly.

"Whar shall I put 'em?" inquired the servant.

"Anywhere, out of my way," was the curt reply.

Debby cautioned her by a shake of her finger, and whispered, "Massa's out dar, waitin' fur
de key. Dar's writin' on dem ar fowers." She lighted the lamps, and, after inquiring if anything
else was wanted, she went out, saying, "Good night, missis. De Lord send ye pleasant dreams."

Again the key turned, and the sound of footsteps died away. Loo Loo eagerly untwisted the paper
round the bouquet, and read these words: "Be ready for travelling. About midnight your door
will be unlocked. Follow Aunt Debby with your shoes in your hand, and speak no word. Destroy
this paper." To this Madame Labasse had added, "Ne craigner rien, ma chere."

Loo Loo's heart palpitated violently, and the blood rushed to her cheeks. Weary as she was,
she felt no inclination to sleep. As she sat there, longing for midnight, she had ample leisure
to survey the apartment. It was, indeed, a bower fit for a princess. The chairs, tables, and
French bedstead were all ornamented with roses and lilies gracefully intertwined on a delicate
fawn-colored ground. The tent-like canopy, that partially veiled the couch, was formed of pink
and white striped muslin, draped on either side in ample folds, and fastened with garlands
of roses. The pillow-cases were embroidered, perfumed, and edged with frills quilled as neatly
as the petals of a dahlia. In one corner stood a small table, decorated with a very elegant
Parisian tea-service for two. Lamps of cut glass illumined the face of a large Pscyche mirror,
and on the toilet before it a diamond necklace and ear-rings sparkled in their crimson velvet
case. Loo Loo looked at them with a half-scornful smile, and repeated to herself:

    "He bought me somewhat high;
    Since with me came a heart he couldn't buy."

She lowered the lamps to twilight softness, and tried to wait with patience. How long the hours
seemed! Surely it must be past midnight. What if Aunt Debby had been detected in her plot?
What if the master should come, in her stead? Full of that fear, she tried to open the windows,
and found them fastened on the outside. Her heart sank within her; for she had resolved, in
the last emergency, to leap out and be crushed on the pavement. Suspense became almost intolerable.
She listened, and listened. There was no sound, except a loud snoring in the next apartment.
Was it her tyrant, who was sleeping so near? She sat with her shoes in her hand, her eyes fastened
on the door. At last it opened, and Debby's brown face peeped in. They passed out together,--the
mulatto taking the precaution to lock the door and put the key in her pocket. Softly they went
down stairs, through the kitchen, out into the adjoining alley. Two gentlemen with a carriage
were in attendance. They sprang in, and were whirled away. After riding some miles, the carriage
was stopped; one of the gentlemen alighted and handed the women out.

"My name is Dinsmore," he said. "I am uncle to your friend, Frank Helper. You are to pass for
my daughter, and Debby is our servant."

"And Alfred,--Mr. Noble, I mean,--where is he?" asked Loo Loo.

"He will follow in good time. Ask no more questions now."

The carriage rolled away; and the party it had conveyed were soon on their way to the North
by an express-train.

It would be impossible to describe the anxiety Alfred had endured from the time Loo Loo became
the property of the cotton-broker until he heard of her escape. From motives of policy he was
kept in ignorance of the persons employed, and of the measures they intended to take. In this
state of suspense, his reason might have been endangered, had not Madame Labasse brought cheering
messages, from time to time, assuring him that all was carefully arranged, and success nearly
certain.

When Mr. Grossman, late in the day, discovered that his prey had escaped, his rage knew no
bounds. He offered one thousand dollars for her apprehension, and another thousand for the
detection of any one who had aided her. He made successive attempts to obtain an indictment
against Mr. Noble; but he was proved to have been distant from the scene of action, and there
was no evidence that he had any connection with the mysterious affair. Failing in this, the
exasperated cotton-broker swore that he would have his heart's blood, for he knew the sly,
smooth-spoken Yankee was at the bottom of it. He challenged him; but Mr. Noble, notwithstanding
the arguments of Frank Helper, refused, on the ground that he held New England opinions on
the subject of duelling. The Kentuckian could not understand that it required a far higher
kind of courage to refuse than it would have done to accept. The bully proclaimed him a coward,
and shot at him in the street, but without inflicting a very serious wound. Thenceforth he
went armed, and his friends kept him in sight. But he probably owed his life to the fact that
Mr. Grossman was compelled to go to New Orleans suddenly, on urgent business. Before leaving,
the latter sent messengers to Savannah, Charleston, Louisville, and elsewhere; exact descriptions
of the fugitives were posted in all public places, and the offers of reward were doubled; but
the activity thus excited proved all in vain. The runaways had travelled night and day, and
were in Canada before their pursuers reached New York. A few lines from Mr. Dinsmore announced
this to Frank Helper, in phraseology that could not be understood, in case the letter should
be inspected at the post-office. He wrote: "I told you we intended to visit Montreal; and by
the date of this you will see that I have carried my plan into execution. My daughter likes
the place so much that I think I shall leave her here awhile in charge of our trusty servant,
while I go home to look after my affairs."

After the excitement had somewhat subsided, Mr. Noble ascertained the process by which his
friends had succeeded in effecting the rescue. Aunt Debby owed her master a grudge for having
repeatedly sold her children; and just at that time a fresh wound was rankling in her heart,
because her only son, a bright lad of eighteen, of whom Mr. Grossman was the reputed father,
had been sold to a slave-trader, to help raise the large sum he had given for Loo Loo. Frank
Helper's friends, having discovered this state of affairs, opened a negotiation with the mulatto
woman, promising to send both her and her son into Canada, if she would assist them in their
plans. Aunt Debby chuckled over the idea of her master's disappointment, and was eager to seize
the opportunity of being reunited to her last remaining child. The lad was accordingly purchased
by the gentleman who distributed oranges in the prison, and was sent to Canada, according to
promise. Mr. Grossman was addicted to strong drink, and Aunt Debby had long been in the habit
of preparing a potion for him before he retired to rest. "I mixed it powerful, dat ar night,"
said the laughing mulatto; "and I put in someting dat de gemmen guv to me. I reckon he waked
up awful late." Mr. Dinsmore, a maternal uncle of Frank Helper's, had been visiting the South,
and was then about to return to New York. When the story was told to him, he said nothing would
please him more than to take the fugitives under his own protection.

SCENE V.

Mr. Noble arranged the wreck of his affairs as speedily as possible, eager to be on the way
to Montreal. The evening before he started, Frank Helper waited upon Mr. Grossman, and said:
"That handsome slave you have been trying so hard to catch is doubtless beyond your reach,
and will take good care not to come within your power. Under these circumstances, she is worth
nothing to you; but for the sake of quieting the uneasiness of my friend Noble, I will give
you eight hundred dollars to relinquish all claim to her."

The broker flew into a violent rage. "I'll see you both damned first," he replied. "I shall
trip 'em up yet. I'll keep the sword hanging over their cursed heads as long as I live. I wouldn't
mind spending ten thousand dollars to be revenged on that infernal Yankee."

Mr. Noble reached Montreal in safety, and found his Loo Loo well and cheerful. Words are inadequate
to describe the emotions excited by reunion, after such dreadful perils and hairbreadth escapes.
Their marriage was solemnized as soon as possible; but the wife being an article of property,
according to American law, they did not venture to return to the States. Alfred obtained some
writing to do for a commercial while Loo Loo instructed little girls in dancing and embroidery.
Her character had strengthened under the severe ordeals through which she had passed. She began
to question the rightfulness of living so indolently as she had done. Those painful scenes
in the slave-prison made her reflect that sympathy with the actual miseries of life was better
than weeping over romances. She was rising above the deleterious influences of her early education,
and beginning to feel the dignity of usefulness. She said to her husband, "I shall not be sorry,
if we are always poor. It is so pleasant to help you, who have done so much for me! And Alfred,
dear, I want to give some of my earnings to Aunt Debby. The poor old soul is trying to lay
up money to pay that friend of yours who bought her son and sent him to Canada. Surely, I,
of all people in the world, ought to be willing to help slaves who have been less fortunate
than I have. Sometimes, when I lie awake in the night, I have very solemn thoughts come over
me. It was truly a wonderful Providence that twice saved me from the dreadful fate that awaited
me. I can never be grateful enough to God for sending me such a blessed friend as my good Alfred."

They were living thus contented with their humble lot, when a letter from Frank Helper announced
that the extensive house of Grossman & Co. had stopped payment. Their human chattels had been
put up at auction, and among them was the title to our beautiful fugitive. The chance of capture
was considered so hopeless, that, when Mr. Helper bid sixty-two dollars, no one bid over him;
and she became his property, until there was time to transfer the legal claim to his friend.

Feeling that they could now be safe under their own vine and fig-tree, Alfred returned to the
United States, where he became first a clerk, and afterward a prosperous merchant. His natural
organization unfitted him for conflict, and though his peculiar experiences had imbued him
with a thorough abhorrence of slavery, he stood aloof from the ever-increasing agitation on
that subject; but every New Year's day, one of the Vigilance Committees for the relief of fugitive
slaves received one hundred dollars "from an unknown friend." As his pecuniary means increased,
he purchased several slaves, who had been in his employ at Mobile, and established them as
servants in Northern hotels. Madame Labasse was invited to spend the remainder of her days
under his roof; but she came only in the summers, being unable to conquer her shivering dread
of snow-storms.

Loo Loo's personal charms attracted attention wherever she made her appearance. At church,
and other public places, people pointed her out to strangers, saying, "That is the wife of
Mr. Alfred Noble. She was the orphan daughter of a rich planter at the South, and had a great
inheritance left to her; but Mr. Noble lost it all in the financial crisis of 1837." Her real
history remained a secret, locked within their own breasts. Of their three children, the youngest
was named Loo Loo, and greatly resembled her beautiful mother. When she was six years old,
her portrait was taken in a gypsy hat garlanded with red berries. She was dancing round a little
white dog, and long streamers of ribbon were floating behind her. Her father had it framed
in an arched environment of vine-work, and presented it to his wife on her thirtieth birth-day.
Her eyes moistened as she gazed upon it; then kissing his hand, she looked up in the old way,
and said, "I thank you, Sir, for buying me."

LETTER-WRITING.

A friend, who happens to have an idea or two of his own, is constantly advising his acquaintances
in no case to become parties to a regular correspondence. He is a great letter-writer himself,
but never answers an epistle, unless it contain queries as to matters of fact, or be an invitation
to a ball or a dinner,--unless, in a word, real, not what he considers conventional politeness
requires; in which event, his reply is despatched at once. Under all other circumstances, he
ignores the last missive from him or her to whom his envelope is addressed. He studiously frames
his own communications in such wise, that they do not call for an answer. He will totally neglect
an intimate friend for months, then let fly at him epistle after epistle, and then give no
sign of life for a long while again. If asked to exchange letters once a week or once a fortnight,
he solemnly inquires whether the wind goes by machinery, and is, after a given interval, invariably
at such o'clock,--adding, that it is his aim, not to keep up, but to keep down, correspondence.
If accused of "owing a letter," he repudiates the obligation, and affirms that he will go to
jail sooner than pay it off. If taxed with heartlessness, he retorts by asking whether it can
be the duty of a moral being to insult a man by writing to him when there is nothing to say.

That these notions, whether they did or did not originate in an unfortunate love-affair, which
my friend is said to have gone through in his youth, contain grains of truth may be easily shown.

I drop a letter in the New York post-office to-day; my friend in Boston receives it to-morrow
and pens a reply at once, which finds me in New York within twenty-four hours. He may have
understood and really answered my epistle. But suppose him to have waited a week. New matters
have, meantime, taken possession of both his mind and mine; the topics, which were fresh when
I wrote, have lost their interest; the bridge between us is broken down. His reply is worth
little more to me than water to flowers cut a month since, or seed to a canary that was interred
with tears last Saturday.

Correspondence is conversation carried on under certain peculiar conditions, but subject to
the same rules as conversation by word of mouth, except so far forth as they may be modified
by those necessary conditions. You do not take your partner's bright saying home with you and
bring a repartee to the next ball, by which time she has forgotten what her bon mot was, and
has another, every whit as good, upon her lips; you do not return a lead in whist at the next
rubber; you do not postpone the laugh over the jokes of the dinner-table, as is fabulously
narrated of Washington, until you have retired for the night. In social intercourse, minds
must meet before one person can be brought to another's mood or both to a middle ground; it
is the friction of contact, that creates conversation. A remark, not answered the instant after
it has been made, is never answered. The bores and boors of society, not the gentlemen and
ladies, ruminate upon what has been said, elaborate replies at leisure, and serve them up unseasonably.

For the purposes of correspondence, one may and must throw himself back into the immediate
past and assume the mood that was his when he wrote and in which alone a reply can find him.
But there is a limit to this power, which is soon reached. Not many letters will keep sweet
more than two days. A little indulgence may, perhaps, be shown toward persons who are a week
or a fortnight from us by the post, since otherwise we could never converse together. But even
they should reply to only the weightier matters suggested, since what they say will probably
be stale before it reaches the eyes for which it was written. For the like reasons, I hold
a Californian or European correspondence to be an impossibility. As for him whose want of politeness
fixes a gulf, a week broad, between himself and his correspondent, there is no excuse. As one
reads a letter, an answer to whatever worth answering may be in it leaps to the lips; to give
it utterance that moment is the only natural, courteous, and truthful course. Ten days hence,
the reply, which now comes of its own accord, cannot be found; what might have been a source
of pleasure to two persons will have become a piece of thankless drudgery. In vain the conscientious
correspondent, at the appointed time, takes the letter which she would answer out of the compartment
of her portfolio, whereon stationers, cunningly humoring a popular weakness, have gilded,--"UNANSWERED
LETTERS." In vain she cons it with care, comments upon every observation in it, answers all
its questions one by one, and propounds a series of her own, as a basis for the next epistle.
Everything has been done decently and in order; but the laboriously-produced letter is a letter
which killeth, and contains no infusion of the spirit that giveth life. This is not the writer's
fault. It is and must be all but impossible, after a lapse of time, to reproduce the natural
reply to a remark, or to concoct one that shall be vital and satisfactory to the other party.

Lovers, of all persons, it would seem, might with least danger postpone answering each other's
missives, since their common topic of interest is always with them, and the billet-doux, after
having been carried in the bosom a week, is as fresh as when taken from the post-office. What
need for "sweet sixteen" to consume the very night of its reception in essaying a reply, which
she might have written next week as well, since next week they two will stand in substantially
the same relations to one another as now? "Sweet sixteen" smiles at such coldblooded logic.
"To you others," thinks she to herself, "all sunsets may be alike; but in our horizon are constant
changes, delicate tones of color, each

  'Shade so finely touched love's sense must
  seize it.'

The mood into which Walter's note put me may never return again. Now it is correspondent to
the mood in which he wrote; now or never must I reply. In this way alone can we keep up a correspondence
between our natures."

But the stupid world will not accept, cannot even understand, these fine sayings. It looks
at the question with very different eyes from those of lovers, boarding-school misses, and
persons in the first moon of a first marriage. The peculiar relations between them may supply
inspiration and vitality to such correspondence. But would Dean Swift have put the daily record
of his life upon paper for another than Stella to peruse? Would Leander have swum the Hellespont
for the sake of meeting any girl but Hero upon the distant shore? As it was, he was drowned
for his pains. The rest of us cannot swim Hellesponts, keep diaries, nor correspond, as foolish
young people have done and do. We have books to read, business to attend to, duties to perform,
tastes to gratify, ambition to feed. Who could bear to have his correspondents always upon
his hands? Who could endure such a tax upon his patience as they would become? Who would send
for his letters? Who would not rather run away from the postmen, for fear of the next discharge?

In the analogy between conversation and correspondence may, perhaps, be found a key to the
problem. Those of us who are not lovers, school-girls, or spinsters are not desirous of keeping
up a colloquy, day in and day out. Nor are we in the habit of resuming a subject, in the next
interview, at the precise point where we left it. A "regular" conversation, after the fashion
of a regular correspondence, is, as between two individuals mutually unknown, or as among a
number, invariably a failure. However recently persons may have parted company, at meeting
they commence de novo; a new talk grows out of the circumstances and thoughts of the moment,
which ends as naturally as it began, when the talkers get tired or are obliged to stop. Sometimes
but one of two or three opens her lips, but conversation, nevertheless, goes on; since an open
ear is the most pointed question, and sympathy is the same, whether or not put into words.

To conversation carried on at a distance of space and time, through the pen, not the lips,
the simple and obvious principles upon which people act in the drawing-room or the fireside-circle
are easily applied. Between those who really wish to talk together letters should fly as rapidly
as the post can deliver them. If only one feels like writing, he should pour forth his heart
to his friend, although that friend remain as silent as the grave. It would be as absurd to
say that either party "owes the letter," as to charge him who had the penultimate word in a
dialogue with the duty of making the first remark the next time he encounters her who had the
last word. When the topic of immediate interest has been disposed of, a correspondence is over.
It matters as little who contributed the larger proportion to it, as who contributes the most
to a dialogue. When the end is reached, the story is done. It is for the party who is first
in the mood of writing, after an interval of silence, to open a new correspondence, in which
there shall be no reference to previous communications, and which may die with the first letter
or be protracted for a week or a month.

Thus we are brought to a position not very far from that taken by my eccentric friend. General
or regular correspondence is useless, baneful, and in most cases impossible; but special correspondence,
born of the necessities of man as a social being, and circumscribed by them, may be from time
to time possible. There can be no harm in an occasional exchange of bulletins of health and
happiness, like the "good morning" and "how d'ye do" of the street and the parlor, or in making
new-year's calls, as it were, annually upon one's distant friends. I know two ladies who have
done this as respects each other for twenty years. But, as a rule, the shorter epistles of
this description are, the better. Some simple formula, which might be printed for convenience's
sake, would answer the purpose, and complete the analogy with the practice of paying three-minute
visits of ceremony or of leaving a card at the door.

The employment of a printed formula in all cases, indeed, where one feels not impelled, but
obliged to write, would save both time and temper. We lay down nine out of ten of our letters
with feelings of disappointment. Were we to imitate the Scotch servant who returned hers to
the postmaster, after a glance at the address had assured her of the writer's health, we should
be quite as well off as we are now. My correspondent often begins with the remark, that he
has nothing to communicate. Then why in the world did he write? Why has he covered four pages
with specimens of poor chirography, which it cost him an hour to put upon paper, and us almost
as much time to decipher? He sends me news which was in the papers a week ago; or speculations
upon it, which professional journalists have already surfeited me with; or short treatises,
after the fashion of Cicero's epistolary productions. He talks about the weather, past, present,
and to come. He serves up, with piquant sauce, occurrences which he would not have thought
worthy of mention at his own breakfast-table. He spins out his two or three facts or ideas
into the finest and flimsiest gossamer; or tucks them into a postscript, which alone, with
the formula, should have been forwarded. He writes in a large hand, and resorts to every kind
of device to fill up his sheet, instead of taking the manly course of writing only so long
as he had something to say, or, if nothing, of keeping silence. A kindly sentence or two may
redeem the epistle from utter condemnation; for love, according to Solomon, makes a dinner
of herbs palatable. But "LOVE," written beneath a formula, would have answered as well.

I should not dare to describe the productions of my female correspondents in detail. Suffice
it to say, that most of them contain a smaller proportion of useless information, and a larger
proportion of sentiment, vague aspiration, and would-be-picturesque description, than those
of the men who pay postage on my behalf. They are longer, and sometimes crossed; it is therefore
a greater task to read them.

My "fair readers"--as the snobs who write for magazines call women-- have not, I trust, misapprehended
my meaning and lost patience with me. I would not be understood as expressing a preference
for one description of letters over another. Every person to his tastes and his talents. But
a letter, which does not represent the writer's real mood, reflect what is uppermost in his
or her mind, deal with things and thoughts rather than with words, and express, if not strengthen,
the peculiar ties between the person writing and the person written to,--a letter which is
not genuine,--is no letter, but a sham and a lie. A real letter, on the other hand, whatever
its topic, cannot fail to be worth reading. Great thoughts, profound speculations, matters
of experience, bits of observation, delicate fancies, romantic sentiments, humorous criticisms
on people and things, funny stories, dreams of the future, memories of the past, pictures of
the present, the merest gossip, the veriest trifling, everything, nothing, may form the theme,
if naturally spoken of, not hunted up to fill out a page.

No reason for modifying my conclusions occurs to me. It may be said, that, after all, a poor
letter is better than none, because advices from distant friends are always welcome. But would
not a glance at the well-known handwriting supply this want as fully as the perusal of a lengthy
epistle, written with the hand, but not with the heart? Does not our chagrin at finding so
little of our friends in their letters more than counterbalance our gratification that they
have been (presumably) kind and thoughtful enough to write? Would we not gladly give four of
their ordinary letters for one of their best? But the instant they strike off the shackles
of regular correspondence, and despatch letters only when they feel inclined, replies only
while they are fresh, and formulas at other times, if need be, we have our wish; the miles
between our friends and ourselves shorten, they are really with us now and then, and we take
solid pleasure in chatting with them.

Am I told, that, until these ideas find general acceptance, it is dangerous to act upon them?
that for an individual here and there to go out of the common course is only to make himself
notorious, a stranger or a bore to his friends? Were such statements true, they would still
be cowardly. We should be faithful to our convictions of what is due to truth and manhood and
self-respect, be the consequences what they may. Because a few are so, the world moves. The
general voice always comes in as a chorus to a few particular voices. As for friends who cannot
appreciate independence of character or of conduct, the fewer one has of them, the better.

Such suggestions as have been thrown out are too obvious to have escaped any one who has given
the subject a moment's thought. But who has time for that? People live too fast, in these days,
to pay such attention as should be paid to those who are more valuable as individuals than
as parts of the great world. The good offices of friendship, which are the fulfilment of the
highest social duties, are poorly performed, and, indeed, little understood. Not many of those
who think at all think beyond the line of established custom and routine. They may take pains
in their letters to obey the ordinary rules of grammar, to avoid the use of slang phrases and
vulgar expressions, to write a clear sentence; but how few seek for the not less imperative
rules which are prescribed by politeness and good sense! Of those who should know them, no
small proportion habitually, from thoughtlessness or perverseness, neglect their observance.

I know men, distinguished in the walks of literature, famed for a beautiful style of composition,
who do not write a tolerable letter nor answer a note of invitation with propriety. Their sentences
are slipshod, their punctuation and spelling beyond criticism, and their manuscript repulsive.
A lady, to whose politeness such an answer is given, has a right to feel offended, and may
very properly ask whether she be not entitled to as choice language as the promiscuous crowd
which the "distinguished gentleman" addresses from pulpit or desk.

How the distinguished gentleman would open his eyes at the question! He is sure that what he
sent her was well enough for a letter. As though a letter, especially a letter to a lady, should
not be as perfect in its kind as a lecture or sermon in its kind! as though one's duties toward
an individual were less stringent than one's duties toward an audience! Would the distinguished
gentleman be willing to probe his soul in search of the true reason for the difference in his
treatment of the two? Is he sure that it is not an outgrowth from a certain "mountainous me,"
which seeks approbation more ardently from the one source than from the other?

There are those who indite elegant notes to comparative strangers, but, probably upon the principle
that familiarity breeds or should breed contempt, send the most villanous scrawls to their
intimate friends and those of their own household. They are akin to the numerous wives, who,
reserving not only silks and satins, but neatness and courtesy, for company, are always in
dishabille in their husbands' houses.

Pericles, according to Walter Savage Landor, once wrote to Aspasia as follows:--

"We should accustom ourselves to think always with propriety in little things as well as in
great, and neither be too solicitous of our dress in the parlor nor negligent because we are
at home. I think it as improper and indecorous to write a stupid or silly letter to you, as
one in a bad hand or upon coarse paper. Familiarity ought to have another and a worse name,
when it relaxes in its efforts to please."

The London Pericles, the Athenian gentleman,--and there are a few such as he still extant,--writes
to his nearest and dearest friend none but the best letters. It appears to him as ill-bred
to say stupid or silly things to her, as to say what he does say clownishly. He cannot conceive
of doing what is so frequently done now-a-days. He brings as much of Pericles to the composition
of a letter as to the preparation of a speech. We may feel sure, that, unless he acted counter
to his own maxims, he never wrote a line more or a line less than he felt an impulse to write,
and that he had no "regular correspondents."

It is not every one that can write such letters as are in that delightful book of Walter Savage
Landor, or as charmed the friends of Charles Lamb, the poet Gray, and a few famous women, first,
and the world afterwards. It is not every one who can, with the utmost and wisest painstaking,
produce a thoroughly excellent letter. The power to do that is original and not to be acquired.
The charm of it will not, cannot, disclose its secret. Like the charm of the finest manners,
of the best conversation, of an exquisite style, of an admirable character, it is felt rather
than perceived. But every person, who will be simply true to his or her nature, can write a
letter that will be very welcome to a friend, because it will be expressive of the character
which that friend esteems and loves. The bunch of flowers, hastily put together by her who
gathered them, speaks as plainly of affection, although not in so delicate tones, as the most
tastefully-arranged bouquet. But who desires to be presented with a nosegay of artificial flowers?
Who can abide dead blossoms or violent discords of color? Freshness, sweetness, and an approach
to harmony, that shall bring to mind the living, growing plants, and the bountiful Nature from
whose embrace flowers are born, the acceptable gift must have.

To attempt a closer definition of a good letter than has been given would be a fruitless, as
well as difficult task. "Complete letter-writers" are chiefly useful for the formulas--notes
of invitation, answers to them, and the like--which they contain, and for their lessons in
punctuation, spelling, and criticism. Their efforts to instruct upon other points are and must
be worse than useless, because their precepts cramp without inspiring. A few good examples
are more valuable, but a little practice is worth them all. Letter-writing is, after all, a
pas seul, as it were; the novice has no partner to teach him manners, or the figures of the
dance, or to set his wits astir. By effort, and through numerous failures, he must teach himself.
The difficulties of the medium between him and his distant friend, who is generally in a similar
predicament, must be surmounted. Gradually stiffness gives place to ease of composition, roughness
to elegance, awkwardness to grace and tact, until his letters at length come to represent his
mood, and to interest, if not to delight, his correspondent. A rigid adherence to times and
places and ceremonial retards this process of growth and advance, which is slow enough, at best.

But, although most correspondence is, from want of truthfulness, thoughtfulness, life, good
judgment, and good breeding, very unsatisfactory, it cannot be denied that many good letters
are written every day. Between lovers, parents and children, real and hearty friends, they
pass. Young men on the threshold of life, while discussing together the grave questions then
encountered, write them. Women, before their time to love and to be loved has come, or after
it is passed,--women, who, disappointed in the great hope of every woman's life, turn to one
another for support and shelter,--are sending them by every post. Mr. De Quincey somewhere
says, that in the letters of English women, almost alone, survive the pure and racy idioms
of the language; and the German Wolf is said to have asserted, that in corresponding with his
betrothed he learnt the mysteries of style.

Such letters as these are worth one's reading, because the utterance is genuine and genial.
The writers feel and express in every line an interest in what they are writing, and do not
recognize the conventional rules which obtain where people rely less upon inspirations from
within than upon fixed general maxims for their guidance. As in the drawing-room the gentleman
or lady behaves naturally, and not according to the dancing-master, so in their correspondence
the best-bred people act from nature, and not from instruction.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE CATACOMBS OF ROME. [Continued.]

  Novit etiam pictura tacens in parietibus loqni.

ST. GREGORY OF NYSSA.

IV.

Christian art began in the catacombs. Under ground, by the feeble light of lanterns, upon the
ceilings of crypts, or in the semicircular spaces left above some of the more conspicuous graves,
the first Christian pictures were painted. Imperfect in design, exhibiting often the influence
of pagan models, often displaying haste of performance and poverty of means, confined for the
most part within a limited circle of ideas, and now faded in color, changed by damp, broken
by rude treatment, sometimes blackened by the smoke of lamps,--they still give abundant evidence
of the feeling and the spirit which animated those who painted them, a feeling and spirit which
unhappily have too seldom found expression in the so-called religious Art of later times. Few
of them are of much worth in a purely artistic view. The paintings of the catacombs are rarely
to be compared, in point of beauty, with the pictures from Pompeii,-- although some of them
at least were contemporary works. The artistic skill which created them is of a lower order.
But their interest arises mainly from the sentiment which they imperfectly embody, and their
chief value is in the light which they throw upon early Christian faith and religious doctrine.
They were designed not so much for the delight of the eye and the gratification of the fancy,
as for stimulating affectionate imaginations, and affording lessons, easily understood, of
faith, hope, and love. They were to give consolation in sorrow, and to suggest sources of strength
in trial. "The Art of the first three centuries is entirely subordinate,-- restrained partly
by persecution and poverty, partly by a high spirituality, which cared more about preaching
than painting."

With the uncertain means afforded by the internal character of these mural pictures, or by
their position in the catacombs, it is impossible to fix with definiteness the period at which
the Christians began to ornament the walls of their burial-places. It was probably, however,
as early as the beginning of the second century; and the greater number of the most important
pictures which have thus far been discovered within the subterranean cemeteries were probably
executed before Christianity had become the established religion of the empire. After that
time the decline in painting, as in faith, was rapid; formality took the place of simplicity;
and in the course of the fourth and fifth centuries the native fire of Art sank, till nothing
was left of it but a few dying embers, which the workmen from the East, who brought in the
stiff conventionalisms of Byzantine Art, were unfit and unable to rekindle.

In the pictures of the most interesting period, that is, of the second and third centuries,
there is no attempt at literal portraiture or historic accuracy. They were to be understood
only by those who had the key to them in their minds, and they mostly arranged themselves in
four broad classes. 1st. Representations of personages or scenes from the Old Testament regarded
as types of those of the New. 2d. Literal or symbolic representations of personages or scenes
from the New Testament. 3d. Miscellaneous figures, chiefly those of persons in the attitude
of prayer. 4th. Ornamental designs, often copied from pagan examples, and sometimes with a
symbolic meaning attached to them.

It is a noteworthy and affecting circumstance, that, among the immense number of the pictures
in the catacombs which may be ascribed to the first three centuries, scarcely one has been
found of a painful or sad character. The sufferings of the Saviour, his passion and his death,
and the martyrdoms of the saints, had not become, as in after days, the main subjects of the
religious Art of Italy. On the contrary, all the early paintings are distinguished by the cheerful
and trustful nature of the impressions they were intended to convey. In the midst of external
depression, uncertainty of fortune and of life, often in the midst of persecution, the Roman
Christians dwelt not on this world, but looked forward to the fulfilment of the promises of
their Lord. Their imaginations did not need the stimulus of painted sufferings; suffering was
before their eyes too often in its most vivid reality; they had learned to regard it as belonging
only to earth, and to look upon it as the gateway to heaven. They did not turn for consolation
to the sorrows of their Lord, but to his words of comfort, to his miracles, and to his resurrection.
Of all the subjects of pictures in the catacombs, the one, perhaps, more frequently repeated
than any other, and under a greater variety of forms and types, is that of the Resurrection.
The figure of Jonah thrown out from the body of the whale, as the type that had been used by
our Lord himself in regard to his resurrection, is met with constantly; and the raising of
Lazarus is one of the commonest scenes chosen for representation from the story of the New
Testament. Nor is this strange. The assurance of immortality was to the world of heathen converts
the central fact of Christianity, from which all the other truths of religion emanated, like
rays. It gave a new and infinitely deeper meaning than it before possessed to all human experience;
and in its universal comprehensiveness, it taught the great and new lessons of the equality
of men before God, and of the brotherhood of man in the broad promise of eternal life. For
us, brought up in familiarity with Christian truth, surrounded by the accumulated and constant,
though often unrecognized influences of the Christian faith upon all our modes of thought and
feeling, the imagination itself being more or less completely under their control,-- for us
it is difficult to fancy the change produced in the mind of the early disciples of Christ by
the reception of the truths which he revealed. During the first three centuries, while converts
were constantly being made from heathenism, brought over by no worldly temptation, but by the
pure force of the new doctrine and the glad tidings over their convictions, or by the contagious
enthusiasm of example and devotion,--faith in Christ and in his teachings must, among the sincere,
have been always connected with a sense of wonder and of joy at the change wrought in their
views of life and of eternity. Their thoughts dwelt naturally upon the resurrection of their
Lord, as the greatest of the miracles which were the seal of his divine commission, and as
the type of the rising of the followers of Him who brought life and immortality to light.

The troubles and contentions in the early Church, the disputes between the Jew and the Gentile
convert, the excesses of spiritual excitement, the extravagances of fanciful belief, of which
the Epistles themselves furnish abundant evidence, ceased to all appearance at the door of
the catacombs. Within them there is nothing to recall the divisions of the faithful; but, on
the contrary, the paintings on the walls almost universally relate to the simplest and most
undisputed truths. It was fitting that among these the types of the Resurrection should hold
a first place.

But the spiritual needs of life were not to be supplied by the promises and hopes of immortality
alone. There were wants which craved immediate support, weaknesses that needed present aid,
sufferings that cried for present comfort, and sins for which repentance sought the assurance
of direct forgiveness. And thus another of the most often-repeated of the pictures in the catacombs
is that of the Saviour under the form of the Good Shepherd. No emblem fuller of meaning, or
richer in consolation, could have been found. It was very early in common use, not merely in
Christian paintings, but on Christian gems, vases, and lamps. Speaking with peculiar distinctness
to all who were acquainted with the Gospels, it was at the same time a figure that could be
used without exciting suspicion among the heathen, and one which was not exposed to desecration
or insult from them; and under emblems of this kind, whose inner meaning was hidden to all
but themselves, the first Christians were often forced to conceal the expression of their faith.
When one of his sheep is lost, doth not the shepherd go after it until he find it? "And when
he hath found it, he layeth it on his shoulders, rejoicing." "There is joy in the presence
of the angels of God over one sinner that repenteth." How often, before this picture, has some
saddened soul uttered the words of the Psalm: "I have gone astray like a lost sheep: seek thy
servant, for I do not forget thy commandments"! And as if to afford still more direct assurance
of the patience and long-suffering tenderness of the Lord, the Good Shepherd is sometimes represented
in the catacombs as bearing, not a sheep, but a goat upon his shoulders. It was as if to declare
that his forgiveness and his love knew no limit, but were waiting to receive and to embrace
even those who had turned farthest from him. But in this picture the order is reversed,--the
goat is on his right hand and the sheep on his left. It was the strongest type that could be
given of the mercy of God. Sometimes the Good Shepherd is represented, not bearing the sheep
on his shoulders, but leaning on his crook, and with a pipe in his hands, while his flock stand
in various attitudes around him. Here again the reference to Scripture is plain: "He calleth
his own sheep by name, and leadeth them out;... and the sheep follow him, for they know his
voice." Thus, under various forms and with various meanings, full of spiritual significance,
and suggesting the most invigorating and consoling thoughts, the Good Shepherd appears oftener
than any other single figure on the vaults and the walls of the catacombs. It is impossible
to look at these paintings, poor in execution and in external expression as they are, without
experiencing some sense, faint it may be, of the force with which they must have appealed to
the hearts and consciences of those who first looked upon them. It is as if the inmost thoughts
and deepest feeling of the Christians of those early times had become dimly visible upon the
walls of their graves. The effect is undoubtedly increased by the manner in which these paintings
are seen, by the unsteady light of wax tapers, in the solitude of long-deserted passages and
chapels. In such a place the dullest imagination is roused, troop on troop of associations
and memories pass in review before it, and the fading colors and faint outlines of the paintings
possess more power over it than the glow of Titian's canvas, or the firm outline of Michel
Angelo's frescoes.

Another symbol of the Saviour which is frequently found in the works of the first three centuries,
and which soon afterwards seems to have fallen almost entirely into disuse, is that of the
Fish. It is not derived, like that of the Good Shepherd, immediately from the words of Scripture;
though its use undoubtedly recalled several familiar narratives. It seems to have been early
associated with the well-known Greek formula, [Greek: iaesous christos theon uios sotaer],
Jesus Christ the Saviour Son of God, arranged acrostically, so that the first letters of its
words formed the word [Greek: ichthus], fish. The first association that its use would suggest
was that of Christ's call to Peter and Andrew, "Follow me, and I will make you fishers of men,"--and
thus we find, among the early Christian writers, the name of "little fish," pisciculi, applied
to the Christian disciples of their times. But it would serve also to bring to memory the miracle
that the multitude had witnessed, of the multiplication of the fishes; and it would recall
that last solemn and tender farewell meeting between the Apostles and their Lord on the shore
of the Sea of Tiberias, in the early morning, when their nets were filled with fish,--and "Jesus
then cometh, and taketh bread, and giveth them, and fish likewise." And with this association
was connected, as we learn from the pictures in the catacombs, a still deeper symbolic meaning,
in which it represented the body of our Lord as given to his apostles at the Last Supper. In
the Cemetery of Callixtus, very near the recently discovered crypt of Pope Cornelius, are two
square sepulchral chambers, adorned with pictures of an early date. Those of the first chamber
have almost utterly perished, but on the wall of the second may be seen the image of a fish
swimming in the water, and bearing on his back a basket filled with loaves of the peculiar
shape and color used by the Jews as an offering of the first fruits to their priests; beneath
the bread appears a vessel which shows a red color, like a cup filled with wine. "As soon as
I saw this picture," says the Cavaliere de Rossi, in his account of the discovery, "the words
of St. Jerome came to my mind,-- 'None is richer than he who bears the body of the Lord in
an osier basket and his blood in a glass.'"

In the same cemetery, very near the crypt of St. Cecilia, there is a passage wider than common,
upon whose side is a series of sepulchral cells of similar form, and ornamented with similar
pictures. In one of them a table is represented, with four baskets of bread on the ground,
on one side, and three on the other, while upon it three loaves and a fish are lying. In another
of the chambers is a picture of a single loaf and of a fish upon a plate lying on a table,
at one side of which a man stands with his hands stretched out towards it, while on the other
side is a woman in the attitude of prayer. It seems no extravagance of interpretation to read
in these pictures the symbol of that memorial service which Jesus had established for his followers,--a
service which has rarely been celebrated under circumstances more adapted to give to it its
full effect, and to awaken in the souls of those who joined in it all the deep and affecting
memories of its first institution, than when the bread and wine were partaken of in memory
of the Lord within the small and secret chapels of the early catacombs. To the Christians who
assembled there in the days when to profess the name of Christ was to venture all things for
his sake, his presence was a reality in their hearts, and his voice was heard as it was heard
by his immediate followers who sat with him at the table in the upper chamber. [1]

[Footnote 1: The Cavaliere de Rossi, in his very learned tract, De Christianis Monumentis [Greek:
IChThUN] exhibentibus, expresses the belief that these pictures, besides their direct and simple
reference to the Lord's Supper, exhibit also the Catholic doctrine of the Real Presence in
the Eucharist. The bread he considers as the obvious material symbol, the fish the mystical
symbol of the transubstantiation. His interpretation is at least doubtful. The bread was to
be eaten in remembrance of the Lord, and the fish was represented as the image which recalled
his words, that have been perverted by materialistic imaginations so far from their original
meaning,--"This is my body which is given for you." But the date of the origin of false opinions
is a matter of comparative unimportance.]

There are several instances, among these subterranean pictures, of a symbolic representation
of the Saviour, drawn, not from Scripture, but from a heathen original. It is that of Orpheus
playing upon his lyre, and drawing all creatures to him by the sweetness of his strains. It
was a fiction widely spread soon after the introduction of Christianity among the Gentiles,
that Orpheus, like the Sibyls and some other of the characters of mythology, had had some blind
revelation of the coming of a saviour of the world, and had uttered indistinct prophecies of
the event. Forgeries, similar to those of the Sibylline Verses, professing to be the remains
of the poems of Orpheus, were made among the Alexandrian Christians, and for a long period
his name was held in popular esteem, as that of a heathen prophet of Christian truth. Whether
the paintings in the catacombs took their origin from these fictions must be uncertain; but
driven, as the Roman Christians were, to hide the truth under a symbol that should be inoffensive,
and should not reveal its meaning to pagan eyes, it was not strange that they should select
this of the ancient poet. As he had drawn beasts and trees and stones to listen to the music
of his lyre, so Christ, with persuasive sweetness and compelling force, drew men more savage
than beasts, more rooted in the earth than trees, more cold than stones, to listen to and follow
him. As Orpheus caused even the kingdom of Death to render back the lost, so Christ drew the
souls of men from the very gates of hell, and made the grave restore its dead. And thus from
the old heathen story the Christian drew new suggestions and fresh meaning, and beheld in it
an unconscious setting-forth of many holy truths.

A subject from the Gospels, which is often represented, and which was used with a somewhat
obscure symbolic meaning, is that of the man sick of the palsy, cured by the Saviour with the
words, "Arise, take up thy bed, and go to thine house." It belongs, according to the ancient
interpretation, to the series of subjects that embody the doctrine of the Resurrection. It
is thus explained by St. Ambrose, St. Augustine, and others of the fathers. They understood
the words of Christ as addressed to them with the meaning, "Arise, leave the things of this
world, have faith, and go forward to thy abiding home in heaven." Such an interpretation is
entirely congruous with the general tone of thought and feeling exhibited in many other common
paintings in the catacombs. But later Romanist writers have attempted to connect its interpretation
with the doctrine of the Forgiveness of Sins, as embodied in what is called the power of the
Church in the holy sacrament of Penance. They lay stress on the words, "Be of good cheer, thy
sins are forgiven thee," and suppose that the picture expresses the belief that the delegated
power of forgiving sins still remained on earth. Undoubtedly the painting may well have recalled
to mind these earlier words of the narrative, as well as the later ones, and with the same
comforting assurance that was afforded by the emblem of the Good Shepherd; but there seems
no just reason for supposing it to have borne any reference to the peculiar doctrine of the
Roman Church. The pictures themselves, so far as we are acquainted with them, seem to contradict
this assumption; for they, without exception, represent the paralytic in the last act of the
narrative, already on his feet and bearing his bed. [2]

[Footnote 2:  One picture of this scene in the Catacombs of St. Hermes is said to be in immediate
connection with the sacrament of Penance "represented literally, in the form of a Christian
kneeling on both knees before a priest, who is giving him absolution." We have not seen the
original of this picture, and we know of no copy of it. It is not given either by Bosio or
in Perret's great work. Before accepting it in evidence, its date must be ascertained, and
the possibility of a more natural explanation of it excluded. How is one figure known to be
that of a priest? and in what manner is the act of giving absolution expressed?]

Among the favorite subjects from the Old Testament are four from the life of Moses,--his taking
off his shoes at the command of the Lord, his exhibiting the manna to the people, his receiving
the tables of the Law, and his striking the rock in the desert. Of these, the first and the
last are most common, and the truths which they were intended to typify seem to have been most
dwelt upon. Moses was regarded in the ancient Church as the type, in the old dispensation,
of our Saviour in the new. Thus as the narrative of the command to Moses to take off his shoes
was immediately connected with the promise of the deliverance of the children of Israel from
the land of bondage, so it was regarded as the figure under which was to be seen the promise
of the greater deliverance of the world through faith in Jesus Christ, and its freedom from
spiritual bondage. Moreover, the shoes were put off, "for the place whereon thou standest is
holy ground"; and it is a natural supposition to regard the act as having been considered the
symbol of that Holiness to the Lord which was the necessary preparation for the great deliverance.
Like so many other of the paintings, it led forward the thoughts and the affections from time
to eternity. And this figure was also, we may well suppose, taken as an immediate type of the
Resurrection, in connection with the words of Jesus, "Now that the dead are raised even Moses
showed at the bush, when he calleth the Lord" For God is not the God of the dead, but of the
living." With this interpretation, it affords another instance of the constancy with which
the Christians connected the thought of immortality with the presence of death.

So also the smiting of the rock, so that the water came forth abundantly, was adopted as the
sign of the giving forth of the living water springing up into everlasting life. "The rock
was Christ," said St. Paul, and it is possible, that, with a secondary interpretation, the
smiting of the rock was sometimes regarded as typical of the sufferings of the Saviour. The
picture of this miracle is repeated again and again, and one of the noblest figures in the
whole range of subterranean Art, a figure of surpassing dignity and grandeur, is that of Moses
in this sublime scene in one of the chapels of the Cemetery of St. Agnes. In the performance
of this miracle, Moses is represented with a rod in his hand; and a similar rod, apparently
as the sign of power, is seen in the hands of Christ, in the paintings which represent his
miracles. It is a curious illustration of the gradual progress of the ideas now current in
the Roman Church, that upon sarcophagi of the fourth and fifth centuries St. Peter is found
sculptured with the same rod in his hands,--emblematic, unquestionably, of the doctrine of
his being the Vicegerent of Christ,--and on the bottom of a glass vessel of late date, found
in the catacombs, the miracle of the striking of the rock is depicted, but at the side of the
figure is the name, not of Moses, but of Peter,--for the Church had by this time advanced far
in its assumptions.

The story of Jonah appears also in four different scenes upon the walls of the chapels and
burial-chambers. In the first, the prophet appears as being cast into the sea; in the second,
swallowed by the great fish; in the third, thrown out upon dry land; and in the fourth, lying
under the gourd. They are not found together, or in series; but sometimes one and sometimes
another of these scenes was painted, according to the fancy or the thought of the artist. The
swallowing of Jonah, and his deliverance from the belly of the whale, has already been referred
to as one of the naturally suggested types of the Resurrection. When the prophet is shown as
lying under a gourd, (which is painted as a vine climbing over a trellis-work, to represent
the booth that Jonah made for himself,) the picture may perhaps have been read as a double
lesson. As God "made the gourd to come up over Jonah, that it might be a shadow over his head,
to deliver him from his grief," so he would deliver from their grief those who now trusted
in him; but as he also made the gourd to wither, so that "the sun beat upon the head of Jonah
that he fainted and wished in himself to die," it was for them to remember their utter dependence
on the will of God, to prepare themselves for the sorrows as for the joys of life. Nor was
this all; the story of Jonah was one especially fitted to remind the recent convert of the
long-suffering and grace of God, and to suggest to those who were enduring the extremities
of persecution the rebuke with which the Lord had chastened even his prophet for his desire
for vengeance upon those who had long dwelt in evil ways. It recalled to them the new commandment
of love to their enemies, and it bade them welcome with rejoicing even the latest and most
reluctant listener to the truth. It repressed spiritual pride, and checked too ready anger.
Such were some, at least, of the meanings which the Christians of the catacombs may have seen
in these pictures. It would be long to enter into the more subtile and less satisfactory interpretations
of their symbolic meanings which are to be found in the works of some of the later fathers,
and which afford, as in many other instances, illustrations of the extravagance of symbolism
into which the studies of the cell, the darkness of their age, and the insufficiency of their
education often led them.

Two subjects are of frequent repetition in the catacombs, which bear a direct reference to
the personal circumstances in which the Christians from time to time found themselves. One
is that of Daniel in the lions' den,--the other that of the Three Children of Israel in the
fiery furnace. Both were types of persecution and of deliverance. "Thy God, whom thou servest
continually, he will deliver thee." Daniel is uniformly represented in the attitude of prayer,--the
attitude adopted by the early Christians, standing with arms outstretched. Very often single
figures with no names attached to them are thus represented above or by the side of graves.
They were probably intended as figures of those who lay within them, figures of those who had
been constant in prayer; and this conjecture is almost established as a certainty by the existence
of a few of these figures with names inscribed above them,--as, for instance, "HILARA IN PACE."

Noah in the ark is also one of the repeated subjects from the Old Testament; the ark being
represented as a sort of square box, in the middle of which Noah stands, sometimes in prayer,
and sometimes with the dove flying towards him, bearing a branch of olive. It was the type
of the Church, the whole body of Christians, floating in the midst of storms, but with the
promise of peace; or, with wider signification, it was the type of the world saved through
the revelation of Christ. It bore reference also to the words of St. Peter, in his First Epistle,
concerning the ark, "wherein few, that is eight souls, were saved by water; the like figure
whereunto, even baptism, doth also now save us by the resurrection of Jesus Christ." Sometimes,
indeed, the act of baptism is represented in a more literal manner, by a naked figure immersed
in the water; sometimes, perhaps, by still other types.

Paintings of the temptation and the fall of Adam and Eve, in which the composition often reminds
one of that adopted by the later masters, are often seen on the walls; and the sacrifice of
Abraham, in which with reverent and just simplicity the interference of the Almighty is represented
by a hand issuing from the clouds, is a common subject. Less frequent are pictures of David
with his sling, of Tobit with the fish, of Susanna and the elders, treated symbolically, and
some few other Old Testament stories. Their typical meaning was plain to the minds of those
who frequented the catacombs. From the Gospels many scenes are represented in addition to those
we have already mentioned: among the most common are the miracle of the multiplication of the
loaves; our Saviour seated, with two or more figures standing near him; and his restoring sight
to the blind. Every year's new excavations bring to light some new picture, and our acquaintance
with the Art of the catacombs is continually receiving interesting additions.

There appears to have been no definite rule in respect to the combination of subjects in a
single chapel. The ceilings are generally divided into various compartments, each filled with
a different subject. Thus, for example, we find on one of them the central compartment occupied
by a figure of Orpheus; four smaller compartments are filled with sheep or cattle; and four
others with Moses striking the rock, Daniel in the lions' den, David with his sling, and Jesus
restoring the paralytic. At the angles of the vault are doves with branches of olive; and the
ornaments of the ceiling are all of graceful and somewhat elaborate character. The purely ornamental
portions of the paintings, though obviously formed on heathen originals, are almost universally
of a pleasing and joyful character, and in many cases possess a symbolic meaning. Flowers,
crowns of leaves, garlands, vines with clustering grapes, displayed more to the Christian's
eyes than mere beauty of form. In these and other similar accessories the symbolism of the
early Church delighted to manifest itself. On their terracotta lamps, fixed in the mortar at
the head of graves, on their sepulchral tablets, on their rings, on their glass cups and chalices,
the Christians put these emblems of their faith, keeping in mind their spiritual significance.
Many of these symbols have preserved their inner meaning to the present day, while others have
long lost it. Thus, the crown and the laurel were the emblems of victory; the palm, of triumph;
the olive, of peace; the vine loaded with grapes, of the joys of heaven. The dove was at once
the figure of the Holy Spirit, and the symbol of innocence and purity of heart; the peacock
the emblem of immortality. The ship reminded the Christian of the harbor of safety, or recalled
to him the Church tossed upon the waves; the anchor was the sign of strength and of hope; the
lyre was the symbol of the sweetness of religion; the stag, of the soul thirsting for the Lord;
the cock, of watchfulness; the horse, of the course of life; the lamb, of the Saviour himself.

Many of these symbols were, it is plain, derived from the Scripture, but many also had a heathen
origin, and were adopted by the Christians with a new or an additional significance. It was
not strange that this should be so, for many associations still bound the Christians of the
early centuries to the things they had turned away from. Thus, the horse is frequently found
upon the funeral vases and marbles of the ancients; the peacock, the bird of Juno, was the
emblem of the apotheosis of the Roman empresses; the palm and the crown had long been in use;
and the funeral genii of the heathen Romans were in some sort the type of the later Christian
angels. But although this adoption of ancient symbols is to be noticed, it is also to be observed
that there is in the Christian cemeteries on the whole a remarkable absence of heathen imagery,--less
by far than might have been expected in the works of those surrounded by heathen modes of thought
and expression. The influence of Christianity, however, so changed the current of ideas, and
so affected the feelings of those whom it called to new life, that heathenism became to them,
as it were, a dead letter, devoid of all that could rouse the fancy, or affect the inner thought.
A great gulf was fixed between them and it,--a gulf which for three centuries, at least, charity
alone could bridge over. It was not till near the fourth century that heathenism began, to
any marked extent, to modify the character and to corrupt the purity of Christianity.

And with this is connected one of the most important historic facts with regard to the Art
of the catacombs. In no one of the pictures of the earlier centuries is support or corroboration
to be found of the distinctive dogmas and peculiar claims of the Roman Church. We have already
spoken of the pictures that have been supposed to have symbolic reference to the doctrine of
the Real Presence in the Eucharist, and have shown how little they require such an interpretation.
The exaltation of St. Peter above the other Apostles is utterly unknown in the works of the
first three centuries; in instances in which he is represented, it is as the companion of St.
Paul. The Virgin never appears as the subject of any special reverence. Sometimes, as in pictures
of the Magi bringing their gifts, she is seen with the child Jesus upon her lap. No attempt
to represent the Trinity (an irreverence which did not become familiar till centuries later)
exists in the catacombs, and no sign of the existence of the doctrine of the Trinity is to
be met with in them, unless in works of a very late period. Of the doctrines of Purgatory and
Hell, of Indulgences, of Absolution, no trace is to be found. Of the worship of the saints
there are few signs before the fourth century,--and it was not until after this period that
figures of the saints, such as those spoken of heretofore, in the account of the crypt of St.
Cecilia, became a common adornment of the sepulchral walls. The use of the nimbus, or glory
round the head, was not introduced into Christian Art before the end of the fourth century.
It was borrowed from Paganism, and was adopted, with many other ideas and forms of representation,
from the same source, after Romanism had taken the place of Paganism as the religion of the
Western Empire. The faith of the catacombs of the first three centuries was Christianity, not
Romanism.

In the later catacombs, the change of belief, which was wrought outside of them, is plainly
visible in the change in the style of Art. Byzantine models stiffened, formalized, and gradually
destroyed the spirit of the early paintings. Richness of vestment and mannerism of expression
took the place of simplicity and straightforwardness. The Art which is still the popular Art
in Italy began to exhibit its lower round of subjects. Saints of all kinds were preferred to
the personages of Scripture. The time of suffering and trial having passed, men stirred their
slow imaginations with pictures of the crucifixion and the passion. Martyrdoms began to be
represented; and the series--not even yet, alas! come to an end--of the coarse and bloody atrocities
of painting, pictures worthy only of the shambles, beginning here, marked the decline of piety
and the absence of feeling. Love and veneration for the older and simpler works disappeared,
and through many of the ancient pictures fresh graves were dug, that faithless Christians might
be buried near those whom they esteemed able to intercede for and protect them. These graves
hollowed out in the wall around the tomb of some saint or martyr became so common, that the
term soon arose of a burial intra or retro sanctos, among or behind the saints. One of the
most precious pictures in the Catacombs of St. Callixtus, precious from its peculiar character,
is thus in some of its most important parts utterly destroyed. It represents, so far as is
to be seen now, two men in the attitude of preaching to flocks who stand near them,--and if
the eye is not deceived by the uncertain light, and by the dimness of the injured colors, a
shower of rain, typical of the showers of divine grace, is falling upon the sheep: on one who
is listening intently, with head erect, the shower falls abundantly; on another who listens,
but with less eagerness, the rain falls in less abundance; on a third who listens, but continues
to eat, with head bent downward, the rain falls scantily; while on a fourth, who has turned
away to crop the grass, scarcely a drop descends. Into this parable in painting the irreverence
of a succeeding century cut its now rifled and forlorn graves.

But the Art of the catacombs, after its first age, was not confined to painting. Many sculptured
sarcophagi have been found within the crypts, and in the crypts of the churches connected with
the cemeteries. Here was again the adoption of an ancient custom; and in many instances, indeed,
the ancient sarcophagi themselves were employed for modern bodies, and the old heathens turned
out for the new Christians. Others were obviously the work of heathen artists employed for
Christian service; and others exhibit, even more plainly than the later paintings, some of
the special doctrines of the Church. The whole character of this sculpture deserves fuller
investigation than we can give to it here. The collection of these first Christian works in
marble that has recently been made in the Lateran Museum affords opportunity for its careful
study,--a study interesting not only in an artistic, but in an historic and doctrinal point
of view.

The single undoubted Christian statue of early date that has come down to us is that of St.
Hippolytus, Bishop of Porto, which was found in 1551, near the Basilica of St. Lawrence. Unfortunately,
it was much mutilated, and has been greatly restored; but it is still of uncommon interest,
not only from its excellent qualities as a work of Art, but also from the engraving upon its
side of a list of the works of the Saint, and of a double paschal cycle. This, too, is now
in the Christian Museum at the Lateran.

Another branch of early Christian Art, which deserves more attention than it has yet received,
is that of the mosaics of the catacombs. Their character is widely different from that of those
with which a few centuries afterwards the popes splendidly adorned their favorite churches.
But we must leave mosaics, gems, lamps, and all the lesser articles of ornament and of common
household use that have been found in the graves, and which bring one often into strange familiarity
with the ways and near sympathy with the feelings of those who occupied the now empty cells.
Most of these trifles seem to have been buried with the dead as the memorials of a love that
longed to reach beyond death with the expressions of its constancy and its grief. Among them
have been found the toys of little children,-- their jointed ivory dolls, their rattles, their
little rings, and bells,--full, even now, of the sweet sounds of long-ago household joys, and
of the tender recollections of household sorrows. In looking at them, one is reminded of the
constant recurrence of the figure of the Good Shepherd bearing his lamb, painted upon the walls
of these ancient chapels and crypts.

It was thus that the dawn of Christian Art lighted up the darkness of the catacombs. While
the Roman nobles were decorating their villas and summer-houses with gay figures, scenes from
the ancient stories, and representations of licentious fancies,--while the emperors were paving
the halls of their great baths with mosaic portraits of the famous prize-fighters and gladiators,--the
Christians were painting the walls of their obscure cemeteries with imagery which expressed
the new lessons of their faith, and which was the type and the beginning of the most beautiful
works that the human imagination has conceived, and the promise of still more beautiful works
yet to be created for the delight and help of the world.

[To be continued.]

       *       *       *       *       *

BEATRICE

  How was I worthy so divine a loss,
    Deepening my midnights, kindling all my morns?
  Why waste such precious wood to make my cross,
    Such far-sought roses for my crown of thorns?

  And when she came, how earned I such a gift?
    Why spend on me, a poor earth-delving mole,
  The fireside sweetnesses, the heavenward lift,
    The hourly mercy of a woman's soul?

  Ah, did we know to give her all her right,
    What wonders even in our poor clay were done!
  It is not Woman leaves us to our night,
    It is our earth that grovels from her sun.

  Our nobler cultured fields and gracious domes
    We whirl too oft from her who still shines on
  To light in vain our caves and clefts, the homes
    Of night-bird instincts pained till she be gone.

  Still must this body starve our souls with shade;
    But when Death makes us what we were before,
  Then shall her sunshine all our depths invade,
    And not a shadow stain heaven's crystal floor.

METEMPSYCHOSIS.

  "The sense of the world is short,--
  Long and various the report,--
    To love and be beloved:
  Men and gods have not outlearned it;
  And how oft soe'er they've turned it,
    'Tis not to be improved!"--EMERSON.

Mr. Vane and Mr. Payne both were eagerly describing to me their arrangements for an excursion
to the Lake. I did not doubt it would be charming, but neither of these two gentlemen would
be endurable on such a drive, and each was determined to ask me first. I stood pushing apart
the crushed flowers of my bouquet, in which all the gardener's art vindicated itself by making
the airy grace of Nature into a flat, unmeaning mosaic.

In the next room the passionate melancholy of a waltz was mocked and travestied by the frantic
and ungrateful whirl that only Americans are capable of executing; the music lived alone in
upper air; of men and dancing it was all unaware; the involved cadences rolled away over the
lawn, shook the dew-drooped roses on their stems, and went upward into the boundless moonlight
to its home. Through all, Messrs. Vane and Payne harangued me about the splendid bowling-alley
at the Lake, the mountain-strawberries, the boats, the gravel-walks! At last it became amusing
to see how skilfully they each evaded and extinguished the other; it was a game of chess, and
he was to be victor who should first ask me; if one verged upon the question, the other quickly
interposed some delightful circumstance about the excursion, and called upon the first to corroborate
his testimony; neither, in Alexander's place, would have done anything but assure the other
that the Gordian knot was very peculiarly tied, and quite tight.

Presently Harry Tempest stood by my side. I became aware that he had heard the discussion.
He took my bouquet from my hand, and stood smelling it, while my two acquaintance went on.
I was getting troubled and annoyed; Mr. Tempest's presence was not composing. I played with
my fan nervously; at length I dropped it. Harry Tempest picked it up, and, as I stooped, our
eyes met; he gave me the fan, and, turning from Messrs. Vane and Payne, said, very coolly,--

"The Lake is really a charming place; I think, Miss Willing, you would find a carriage an easier
mode of conveyance, so far, than your pony; shall I bring one for you? or do you still prefer
to ride?"

This was so quietly done, that it seemed to me really a settled affair of some standing that
I was to go to the Lake with Mr. Tempest. Mr. Vane sauntered off to join the waltzers; Mr.
Payne suddenly perceived Professor Rust at his elbow and began to talk chemistry. I said, as
calmly as I had been asked,--

"I will send you word some time tomorrow; I cannot tell just now."

Here some of my friends came to say good night; my duties as hostess drew me toward the door;
Harry Tempest returned my bouquet and whispered, or rather said in that tone of society that
only the person addressed can hear,--

"Clara! let it be a drive!"

My head bent forward as he spoke, for I could not look at him; when I raised it, he was gone.

The music still soared and floated on through the windows into the moonlight; one by one the
older part of my guests left me; only a few of the gayest and youngest still persevered in
that indefatigable waltz, the oval room looking as if a score of bubbles were playing hop and
skip,--for in the crinoline expansions the gentlemen's black pen-and-ink outlines were all
lost. At length even these went; the music died; its soul went up with a long, broken cry;
its body was put piecemeal into several green bags, shouldered by stout Germans, and carried
quite out of sight. The servants gathered and set away such things as were most needful to
be arranged, put out the lights, locked the doors and windows, and went to bed. Mrs. Reading,
my good housekeeper, begged me to go up stairs.

"You look so tired, Miss Clara!"

"So I am, Delia!" said I. "I will rest. Go to bed you, and I shall come presently."

I heard her heavy steps ascend the stairs; I heard the door of her room close, creaking. How
could I sleep? I knew very well what the coming day would bring; I knew why Harry Tempest preferred
to drive. I had need of something beside rest, for sleep was impossible; I needed calmness,
quiet, enough poise to ask myself a momentous question, and be candidly answered. This quiet
was not to be found in my room, I well knew; every bit of its furniture, its drapery, was haunted,
and in any hour of emotion the latent ghosts came out upon me in swarms; the quaint mandarins
with crooked eyes and fat cheeks had eyed me a thousand times when Elsie's arm was clasped
over my neck, and with her head upon my shoulder we lay and laughed, when we should have been
dressing, at those Chinese chintz curtains. Elsie was gone; if she had been here, I had been
at once counselled. Rest there, dead Past!--I could not go to my bedroom.

The green-house opened from the large parlor by a sash-door. At this season of the year the
glazed roof and sides were withdrawn or lowered, but at night the lower sashes were drawn up
and fastened, lest incursive cats or dogs should destroy my flowers. The great Newfoundland
that was our guard slept on the floor here, since it was the weakest spot for any ill-meaning
visitors to enter at.

I drew the long skirt of my lace dress up over my hair, and quietly went into the green-house.
The lawn and its black firs tempted me, but there was moonlight on the lawn, and moonlight
I cannot bear; it burns my head more fiercely than any noon sun; it scorches my eyelids; it
exhausts and fevers me; it excites my brain, and now I looked for calm. This the odor of the
flowers and their pure expression promised me. A tall, thick-leaved camellia stood half-way
down the border, and before it was a garden-chair. The moonlight shed no ray there, but through
the sashes above streamed cool and fair over the blooms that clung to the wall and adorned
the parterres and vases; for this house was set after a fashion of my own, a winter-garden
under glass; no stages filled the centre. It was laid out with no stiff rule, but here and
there in urns of stone, or in pyramidal stands, gorgeous or fragrant plants ran at their own
wild will, while over all the wall and along the woodwork of the roof trailed passion-flowers,
roses, honeysuckles, fragrant clematis, ivy, and those tropic vines whose long dead names belie
their fervid luxuriance and fantastic growth; great trees of lemon and orange interspaced the
vines in shallow niches of their own, and the languid drooping tresses of a golden acacia flung
themselves over and across the deep glittering mass of a broad-leaved myrtle.

As I sat down in the chair, Pan reared his dusky length from his mat, and came for a recognition.
It was wont to be something more positive than caresses; but to-night neither sweet biscuit
nor savory bit of confectionery appeared in the hand that welcomed him; yet he was as loving
as ever, and, with a grim sense of protection, flung himself at my feet, drew a long breath,
and slept. I dared not yet think; I rested my head against the chair, and breathed in the odor
of the flowers: the delicate scent of tea-roses; the Southern perfume, fiery and sweet, like
Greek wine, of profuse heliotropes,--a perfume that gives you thirst, and longing, and regret.
I turned my head toward the orange-trees; Southern, also, but sensuous and tropic, was the
breath of those thick white stars,--a tasted odor. Not so the cool air that came to me from
a diamond-shaped bed of Parma violets, kept back so long from bloom that I might have a succession
of them; these were the last, and their perfume told it, for it was at once a caress and a
sigh. I breathed the gale of sweetness till every nerve rested and every pulse was tranquil
as the air without.

I heard a little stir. I looked up. A stately calla, that reared one marble cup from its gracious
cool leaves, was bending earthward with a slow and voluntary motion; from the cup glided a
fair woman's shape; snowy, sandalled feet shone from under the long robe; hair of crisped gold
crowned the Greek features. It was Hypatia. A little shiver crept through a white tea-rose
beside the calla; its delicate leaves fluttered to the ground; a slight figure, a sweet, sad
face, with melancholy blue eyes and fair brown hair, parted the petals. La Valliere! She gazed
in my eyes.

"Poor little child!" said she. "Have you a treatise against love, Hypatia?"

The Greek of Egypt smiled and looked at me also. "I have discovered that the steps of the gods
are upon wool," answered she; "if love had a beginning to sight, should not we also foresee
its end?"

"And when one foresees the end, one dies," murmured La Valliere.

"Bah!" exclaimed Marguerite of Valois, from the heart of a rose-red camellia,--"not at all,
my dear; one gets a new lover!"

"Or the new lover gets you," said a dulcet tone, tipped with satire, from the red lips of Mary
of Scotland,--lips that were just now the petals of a crimson carnation.

"Philosophy hath a less troubled sea wherein to ride than the stormy fluctuance of mortal passion;
Plato is diviner than Ovid," said a puritanic, piping voice from a coif that was fashioned
out of the white camellia-blooms behind my chair, and circled the prim beauty of Lady Jane Grey.

"Are you a woman, or one of the Sphinx's children?" said a stormy, thrilling, imperious accent,
from the wild purple and scarlet flower of the Strelitzia, that gradually shaped itself into
gorgeous Oriental robes, rolled in waves of splendor from the lithe waist and slender arms
of a dark woman, no more young,--sallow, thin, but more graceful than any bending bough of
the desert acacia, and with eyes like midnight, deep, glowing, flashing, melting into dew,
as she looked at the sedate lady of England.

"You do not know love!" resumed she. "It is one draught,--a jewel fused in nectar; drink the
pearl and bring the asp!"

Her words brought beauty; the sallow face burnt with living scarlet on lip and cheek; the tiny
pearl-grains of teeth flashed across the swarth shade above her curving, passionate mouth;
the wide nostrils expanded; the great eyes flamed under her low brow and glittering coils of
black hair.

"Poor Octavia!" whispered La Valliere. Lady Jane Grey took up her breviary and read.

"After all, you died!" said Hypatia.

"I lived!" retorted Cleopatra.

"Lived and loved," said a dreamy tone from the hundred leaves of a spotless La Marque rose;
and the steady, "unhasting, unresting" soul of Thekla looked out from that centreless flower,
in true German guise of brown braided tresses, deep blue eyes like forget-me-nots, sedate lips,
and a straight nose.

"I have lived, and loved, and cut bread and butter," solemnly pronounced a mountain-daisy,
assuming the broad features of a fraeulein.

Cleopatra used an Egyptian oath. Lady Jane Grey put down her breviary and took up Plato. Marguerite
of Valois laughed outright. Hypatia put a green leaf over Charlotte, with the air of a high-priestess,
and extinguished her.

"Who does not love cannot lose," mused La Valliere.

"Who does not love neither has nor gains," said Hypatia. "The dilemma hath two sides, and both
gain and loss are problematic. It is the ideal of love that enthralls us, not the real."

"Hush! you white-faced Greek! It was not an ideal; it was Mark Antony. By Isis! does a dream
fight, and swear, and kiss?"

"The Navarrese did; and France dreamed he was my master,--not I!" laughed Marguerite.

"This is most weak stuff for goodly and noble women to foster," grimly uttered a flame-colored
hawk's-bill tulip, that directly assumed a ruff and an aquiline nose.

Mary of Scotland passed her hand about her fair throat. "Where is Leicester's ring?" said she.

The Queen did not hear, but went on. "Truly, you make as if it was the intent of women to be
trodden under foot of men. She that ruleth herself shall rule both princes and nobles, I wot.
Yet I had done well to marry. Love or no love, I would the house of Hanover had waged war with
one of mine own blood; I hate those fair, fat Guelphs!"

"Love hath sometimes the thorn alone, the rose being blasted in bud," uttered a sweet and sonorous
voice with a little nasal accent, out of the myrtle-boughs that starred with bloom her hair,
and swept the hem of her green dress.

"Sweet soul, wast thou not, then, sated upon sonnets?" said Mary of Scotland, in a stage aside.

"Do not the laurels overgrow the thorn?" said La Valliere, with a wistful, inquiring smile.

Laura looked away. "They are very green at Avignon," said she.

Out of two primroses, side by side, Stella and Vanessa put forth pale and anxious faces, with
eyes tear-dimmed.

"Love does not feed on laurels," said Stella; "they are fruitless."

"That the clergy should be celibate is mine own desire," broke in Queen Elizabeth. "Shall every
curly fool's-pate of a girl be turning after an anointed bishop? I will have this thing ended,
certes! and that with speed."

Vanessa was too deep in a brown study to hear. Presently she spoke. "I believe that love is
best founded upon a degree of respect and veneration which it is decent in youth to render
unto age and learning."

"Ciel!" muttered Marguerite; "is it, then, that in this miserable England one cherishes a grand
passion for one's grandfather?"

The heliotrope-clusters melted into a face of plastic contour, rich full lips, soft interfused
outlines, intense purple eyes, and heavy waving hair, dark indeed, but harmonized curiously
with the narrow gold fillet that bound it. "It is no pain to die for love," said the low, deep
voice, with an echo of rolling gerunds in the tone.

"That depends on how sharp the dagger is," returned Mary of Scotland. "If the axe had been
dull"----

From the heart of a red rose Juliet looked out; the golden centre crowned her head with yellow
tresses; her tender hazel eyes were calm with intact passion; her mouth was scarlet with fresh
kisses, and full of consciousness and repose. "Harder it is to live for love," said she; "hardest
of all to have ever lived without it."

"How much do you all help the matter?" said a practical Yankee voice from a pink hollyhock.
"If the infinite relations of life assert themselves in marriage, and the infinite I merges
its individuality in the personality of another, the superincumbent need of a passional relation
passes without question. What the soul of the seeker asks from itself and the universe is,
whether the ultimate principle of existent life is passional or philosophic."

"Your dialectic is wanting in purity of expression," calmly said Hypatia; "the tongue of Olympus
suits gods and their ministers only."

"Plato hath no question of the matter in hand," observed Lady Jane Grey, with a tone of finishing
the subject.

"I know nothing of your questions and philosophies," scornfully stormed Cleopatra. "Fire seeks
fire, and clay, clay. Isis send me Antony, and every philosopher in Alexandria may go drown
in the Nile! Shall I blind my eyes with scrolls of papyrus when there is a goodly Roman to
be looked upon?"

From the deep blue petals of a double English violet came a delicate face, pale, serene, sad,
but exceeding tender. "Love liveth when the lover dies," said Lady Rachel Russell. "I have
well loved my lord in the prison; shall I cease to affect him when he is become one of the
court above?"

"You are cautious of speech, Mesdames," carelessly spoke Marguerite. "Women are the fools of
men; you all know it. Every one of you has carried cap and bell."

They all turned toward the hawk's-bill tulip; it was not there.

"Gone to Kenilworth," demurely sneered Mary of Scotland.

A pond-lily, floating in a tiny tank, opened its clasped petals; and with one bare pearly foot
upon the green island of leaves, and the other touching the edge of the marble basin, clothed
with a rippling, lustrous, golden garment of hair, that rolled downward in glittering masses
to her slight ankles, and half hid the wide, innocent, blue eyes and infantile, smiling lips,
Eve said, "I was made for Adam," and slipped silently again into the closing flower.

"But we have changed all that!" answered Marguerite, tossing her jewel-clasped curls.

"They whom the saints call upon to do battle for king and country have their nature after the
manner of their deeds," came a clear voice from the fleur-de-lis, that clothed itself in armor,
and flashed from under a helmet the keen, dark eyes and firm, beardless lips of a woman.

"There have been cloistered nuns," timidly breathed La Valliere.

"There is a monk's-hood in that parterre without," said Marguerite.

The white clematis shivered. It was a veiled shape in long robes, that hid face and figure,
who clung to the wall and whispered, "Paraclete!"

"There are tales of saints in my breviary," soliloquized Mary of Scotland; and in the streaming
moonlight, as she spoke, a faint outline gathered, lips and eyes of solemn peace, a crown of
blood-red roses pressing thorns into the wan temples that dripped sanguine streams, and in
the halo above the wreath a legend, partially obscured, that ran, "Utque talis Rosa nulli alteri
plantae adhaereret"----

"But the girl there is no saint; I think, rather, she is of mine own land," said a purple passion-flower,
that hid itself under a black mantilla, and glowed with dark beauty. The Spanish face bent
over me with ardent eyes and lips of sympathetic passion, and murmured, "Do not fear! Pedro
was faithful unto and after death; there are some men"----

Pan growled! I rubbed my eyes! Where was I? Mrs. Reading stood by me in very extempore costume,
holding a night-lamp:--

"Goodness me, Miss Clara!" said she, "I never was more scared. I happened to wake up, and I
thought I see your west window open across the corner; so I roused up to go and see if you
was sick; and you wasn't in bed, nor your frock anywhere. I was frighted to pieces; but when
I come down and found the greenhouse door open, I went in just for a chance, and, lo and behold!
here you are, sound asleep in the chair, and Pan a-lying close onto that beautiful black lace
frock! Do get up, Miss Clara! you'll be sick to-morrow, sure as the world!"

I looked round me. All the flowers were cool and still; the calla breathless and quiet; the
pond-lily shut; the roses full of dew and perfume; the clematis languid and luxuriant.

"Delia," said I, "what do you think about matrimony?"

Mrs. Reading stared at me with her honest green eyes. I laughed.

"Well," said she, "marriage is a lottery, Miss Clara. Reading was a pretty good feller; but
seein' things was as they was, if I'd had means and knowed what I know now, I shouldn't never
have married him."

"May-be you'd have married somebody else, though," suggested I.

"Like enough, Miss Clara; girls are unaccountable perverse when they get in love. But do get
up and go to bed. A'n't you goin' to the Lake to-morrow?"

That put my speculation to flight. Up I rose and meekly followed Delia to my room; this time
she staid to see me fairly disrobed. But I had had sleep enough. I was also quiet; I could
think. The future lay at my feet, to be planned and patterned at my will; or so I thought.
I had not permitted myself to think much about Harry Tempest, from an instinctive feeling of
danger; I did not know then that

  "En songeant qu'il faut oublier
   On s'en souvient!"

I was young, rich, beautiful, independent; I came and went as I would, without question, and
did my own pleasure. If I married, all this power must be given up; possibly I and my husband
would tire of each other,--and then what remained but fixed and incurable disgust and pain?
I thought over my strange dream. Cleopatra, the enchantress, and the scorn of men: that was
not love, it was simple passion of the lowest grade. Lady Jane Grey: she was only proper. Marguerite
de Valois: profligate. Elizabeth: a shrewish, selfish old politician. Who of all these had
loved? Arria: and Paetus dying, she could not love. Lady Russell: she lived and mourned. I
looked but at one side of the argument, and drew my inferences from that, but they satisfied
me. Soon I saw the dawn stretch its opal tints over the distant hills, and tinge the tree-tops
with bloom. I heard the half-articulate music of birds, stirring in their nests; but before
the sounds of higher life began to stir I had gone to sleep, firmly resolved to ride to the
Lake, and to give Harry Tempest no opportunity to speak to me alone. But I slept too long;
it was noon before I woke, and I had sent no message about my preference of the pony, as I
promised, to Mr. Tempest. I had only time to breakfast and dress. At three o'clock he came,--with
his carriage, of course. So I rode to the Lake!

It's all very well to make up one's mind to say a certain thing; it is better if you say it;
but, somehow or other,--I really was ashamed afterward,--I forgot all my good reasons. I found
I had taken a great deal of pains to no purpose. In short, after due time, I married Harry
Tempest; and though it is some time since that happened, I am still much of Eve's opinion,--

   "I WAS MADE FOR ADAM."

       *       *       *       *       *

CRAWFORD AND SCULPTURE.

There is as absolute an instinct in the human mind for the definite, the palpable, and the
emphatic, as there is for the mysterious, the versatile, and the elusive. With some, method
is a law, and taste severe in affairs, costume, exercise, social intercourse, and faith. The
simplicity, directness, uniformity, and pure emphasis or grace of Sculpture have analogies
in literature and character: the terse despatch of a brave soldier, the concentrated dialogue
of Alfieri, some proverbs, aphorisms, and poetic lines, that have become household words, puritanic
consistency, silent fortitude, are but so many vigorous outlines, and impress us by virtue
of the same colorless intensity as a masterpiece of the statuary. How sculpturesque is Dante,
even in metaphor, as when he writes,--

  "Ella non ci diceva alcuna cosa;
  Ma lasciavane gir, solo guardando,
  A guisa di leon quando si posa."

Nature, too, hints the art, when her landscape tints are covered with snow, and the forms of
tree, rock, and mountain are clearly defined by the universal whiteness. Death, in its pale,
still, fixed image,--always solemn, sometimes beautiful,--would have inspired primeval humanity
to mould and chisel the lineaments of clay. Even New Zealanders elaborately carve their war-clubs;
and from the "graven images" prohibited by the Decalogue as objects of worship, through the
mysterious granite effigies of ancient Egypt, the brutal anomalies in Chinese porcelain, the
gay and gilded figures on a ship's prow,--whether emblems of rude ingenuity, tasteless caprice,
retrospective sentiment, or embodiments of the highest physical and mental culture, as in the
Greek statues,--there is no art whose origin is more instructive and progress more historically
significant. The vases of Etruria are the best evidence of her degree of civilization; the
designs of Flaxman on Wedgwood ware redeem the economical art of England; the Bears at Berne
and the Wolf in the Roman Capitol are the most venerable local insignia; the carvings of Gibbons,
in old English manor-houses, outrival all the luxurious charms of modern upholstery; Phidias
is a more familiar element in Grecian history than Pericles; the moral energy of the old Italian
republics is more impressively shadowed forth and conserved in the bold and vigorous creations
of Michel Angelo than in the political annals of Macchiavelli; and it is the massive, uncouth
sculptures, half-buried in sylvan vegetation, which mythically transmit the ancient people
of Central America.

We confess a faith in, and a love for, the "testimony of the rocks,"-- not only as interpreted
by the sagacious Scotchman, as he excavated the "old red sandstone," but as shaped into forms
of truth, beauty, and power by the hand of man through all generations. We love to catch a
glimpse of these silent memorials of our race, whether as Nymphs half-shaded at noon-day with
summer foliage in a garden, or as Heroes gleaming with startling distinctness in the moonlit
city-square; as the similitudes of illustrious men gathered in the halls of nations and crowned
with a benignant fame, or as prone effigies on sepulchres, forever proclaiming the calm without
the respiration of slumber, so as to tempt us to exclaim, with the enamored gazer on the Egyptian
queen, when the asp had done its work,--

  "She looks like sleep,
  As she would catch another Antony
  In her strong toil of grace."

Although Dr. Johnson undervalued sculpture,--partly because of an inadequate sense of the beautiful,
and partly from ignorance of its greatest trophies, he expressed unqualified assent to its
awe-inspiring influence in "the monumental caves of death," as described by Congreve. Sir Joshua
truly declares that "all arts address themselves to the sensibility and imagination"; and no
one thus alive to the appeal of sculpture will marvel that the infuriated mob spared the statues
of the Tuileries at the bloody climax of the French Revolution,--that a "love of the antique"
knit in bonds of life-long friendship Winckelmann and Cardinal Albani,-- that among the most
salient of childhood's memories should be Memnon's image and the Colossus of Rhodes,--that
an imaginative girl of exalted temperament died of love for the Apollo Belvidere,--and that
Carrara should win many a pilgrimage because its quarries have peopled earth with grace.

To a sympathetic eye there are few more pleasing tableaux than a gifted sculptor engaged in
his work. How absorbed he is!--standing erect by the mass of clay,--with graduated touch, moulding
into delicate undulations or expressive lines the inert mass,--now stepping back to see the
effect,--now bending forward, almost lovingly, to add a master indentation or detach a thin
layer,--and so, hour after hour, working on, every muscle in action, each perception active,
oblivious of time, happy in the gradual approximation, under patient and thoughtful manipulation,
of what was a dense heap of earth, to a form of vital expression or beauty. When such a man
departs from the world, after having thus labored in love and with integrity so as to bequeathe
memorable and cherished trophies of this beautiful art,--when he dies in his prime, his character
as a man endeared by the ties of friendship, and his fame as an artist made precious by the
bond of a common nativity, we feel that the art he loved and illustrated and the fame he won
and honored demand a coincident discussion.

Thomas Crawford was born in New York, March 22, 1813, and died in London, October 16, 1857.
His lineage, school education, and early facilities indicate no remarkable means or motive
for artistic development; they were such as belong to the average positions of the American
citizen; although a bit of romance, which highly amused the young sculptor, was the visit of
a noble Irish lady to his studio, who ardently demonstrated their common descent from an ancient
house. At first contented to experiment as a juvenile draughtsman, to gaze into the windows
of print-shops, to collect what he could obtain in the shape of casts, to carve flowers, leaves,
and monumental designs in the marble-yard of Launitz,--then adventuring in wood sculptures
and portraits, until the encouragement of Thorwaldsen, the nude models of the French Academy
at Rome, and copies from the Demosthenes and other antiques in the Vatican disciplined his
eye and touch,--thus by a healthful, rigorous process attaining the manual skill and the mature
judgment which equipped him to venture wisely in the realm of original conception,--there was
a thoroughness and a progressive application in his whole initiatory course, prophetic, to
those versed in the history of Art, of the ultimate and secure success so legitimately earned.

If Rome yields the choicest test, in modern times, of individual endowment in sculpture, by
virtue of her unequalled treasures and select proficients in Art,--Munich affords the second
ordeal in Europe, because of the cultivated taste and superior foundries for which that capital
is renowned; and it is remarkable that both the great statues there cast from Crawford's models
by Mueller inspired those impromptu festivals which give expression to German enthusiasm. The
advent of the Beethoven statue was celebrated by the adequate performance, under the auspices
of both court and artists, of that peerless composer's grandest music. When, on the evening
of his arrival, Crawford went to see, for the first time, his Washington in bronze, he was
surprised at the dusky precincts of the vast arena; suddenly torches flashed illumination on
the magnificent horse and rider, and simultaneously burst forth from a hundred voices a song
of triumph and jubilee: thus the delighted Germans congratulated their gifted brother, and
hailed the sublime work,--to them typical at once of American freedom, patriotism, and genius.
The king warmly recognized the original merits and consummate effect of the work; the artists
would suffer no inferior hands to pack and despatch it to the sea-side; peasants greeted its
triumphal progress;--the people of Richmond were emulous to share the task of conveying it
from the quay to the Capitol hill; mute admiration, followed by ecstatic cheers, hailed its
unveiling, and the most gracious native eloquence inaugurated its erection.

Descriptions of works of Art, especially of statues, are proverbially unsatisfactory; only
a vague idea can be given in words, to the unprofessional reader; otherwise we might dwell
upon the eager, intent attitude of Orpheus as he seems to glide by the dozing Cerberus, shading
his eyes as they peer into the mysterious labyrinth he is about to enter in search of his ravished
bride;--we might expatiate on the graceful, dignified aspect of Beethoven, the concentration
of his thoughtful brow, and the loving serenity of his expression,--a kind of embodied musical
self-absorption, yet an accurate portrait of the man in his inspired mood; so might he have
stood when gathering into his serene consciousness the pastoral melodies of Nature, on a summer
evening, to be incorporated into immortal combinations of harmonious sound;--we might descant
upon the union of majesty and spirit in the figure of Washington and the vital truth of action
in the horse, the air of command and of rectitude, the martial vigor and grace, so instantly
felt by the popular heart, and so critically praised by the adept in statuary cognizant of
the difficulties to be overcome and the impression to be absolutely evolved from such a work,
in order to make it at once true to Nature and to character;--we might repeat the declaration,
that no figure, ancient or modern, so entirely illustrates the classic definition of oratory,
as consisting in action, as the statue of Patrick Henry, which seems instinct with that memorable
utterance, "Give me liberty or give me death!" The inventive felicity of the design for one
of the pediments of the Capitol might be unfolded as a vivid historic poem; and it requires
no imagination to show that Jefferson looks the author of the Declaration of Independence.
The union of original expression and skill in statuary and of ingenious constructiveness in
monumental designs, which Crawford exhibited, may be regarded as a peculiar excellence and
a rare distinction.

Much has been said and written of the limits of sculpture; but it is the sphere, rather than
the art itself, which is thus bounded; and one of its most glorious distinctions, like that
of the human form and face, which are its highest subject, is the vast possible variety within
what seems, at first thought, to be so narrow a field. That the same number and kind of limbs
and features should, under the plastic touch of genius, have given birth to so many and totally
diverse forms, memorable for ages and endeared to humanity, is in itself an infinite marvel,
which vindicates, as a beautiful wonder, the statuary's art from the more Protean rivalry of
pictorial skill. If we call to mind even a few of the sculptured creations which are "a joy
forever," even to retrospection,--haunting by their pure individuality the temple of memory,
permanently enshrined in heartfelt admiration as illustrations of what is noble in man and
woman, significant in history, powerful in expression, or irresistible in grace,--we feel what
a world of varied interest is hinted by the very name of Sculpture. Through it the most just
and clear idea of Grecian culture is revealed to the many. The solemn mystery of Egyptian and
the grand scale of Assyrian civilization are best attested by the same trophies. How a Sphinx
typifies the land of the Pyramids and all its associations, mythological, scientific, natural,
and sacred,--its reverence for the dead, and its dim and portentous traditions! and what a
reflex of Nineveh's palmy days are the winged lions exhumed by Layard! What more authentic
tokens of Mediaeval piety and patience exist than the elaborate and grotesque carvings of Albert
Duerer's day? The colossal Brahma in the temple of Elephanta, near Bombay, is the visible acme
of Asiatic superstition. And can an illustration of the revival of Art, in the fifteenth century,
so exuberant, aspiring, and sublime, be imagined, to surpass the Day and Night, the Moses,
and other statues of Angelo?-- But such general inferences are less impressive than the personal
experience of every European traveller with the least passion for the beautiful or reverence
for genius. Is there any sphere of observation and enjoyment to such a one, more prolific of
individual suggestions than this so-called limited art? From the soulful glow of expression
in the inspired countenance of the Apollo, to the womanly contours, so exquisite, in the armless
figure of the Venus de Milo,--from the aerial posture of John of Bologna's Mercury, to the
inimitable and firm dignity in the attitude of Aristides in the Museum of Naples,--from the
delicate lines which teach how grace can chasten nudity in the Goddess of the Tribune at Florence,
to the embodied melancholy of Hamlet in the brooding Lorenzo of the Medici Chapel,--from the
stone despair, the frozen tears, as it were, of all bereaved maternity, in the very bend of
Niobe's body and yearning gesture, to the abandon gleaming from every muscle of the Dancing
Faun,--from the stern brow of the Knife-grinder, and the bleeding frame of the Gladiator, whereon
are written forever the inhumanities of ancient civilization, to the triumphant beauty and
firm, light, enjoyable aspect of Dannecker's Ariadne,--from the unutterable joy of Cupid and
Psyche's embrace, to the grand authority of Moses,--how many separate phases of human emotion
"live in stone"! What greater contrast to eye or imagination, in our knowledge of facts and
in our consciousness of sentiment, can be exemplified, than those so distinctly, memorably,
and gracefully moulded in the apostolic figures of Thorwaldsen, the Hero and Leander of Steinhaueser,
the lovely funereal monument, inspired by gratitude, which Rauch reared to Louise of Prussia,
Chantrey's Sleeping Children, Canova's Lions in St. Peter's, the bas-reliefs of Ghiberti on
the Baptistery doors at Florence, and Gibson's Horses of the Sun?

Have you ever strolled from the inn at Lucerne, on a pleasant afternoon, along the Zurich road,
to the old General's garden, where stands the colossal lion designed by Thorwaldsen, to keep
fresh the brave renown of the Swiss guard who perished in defence of the royal family of France
during the massacre of the Revolution? Carved from the massive sandstone, the majestic animal,
with the fatal spear in his side, yet loyal in his vigil over the royal shield, is a grand
image of fidelity unto death. The stillness, the isolation, the vivid creepers festooning the
rocks, the clear mirror of the basin, into which trickle pellucid streams, reflecting the vast
proportions of the enormous lion, the veteran Swiss, who acts as cicerone, the adjacent chapel
with its altar-cloth wrought by one of the fair descendants of the Bourbon king and queen for
whom these victims perished, the hour, the memories, the admixture of Nature and Art, convey
a unique impression, in absolute contrast with such white effigies, for instance, as in the
dusky precincts of Santa Croce droop over the sepulchre of Alfieri, or with the famous bronze
boar in the Mercato Nuevo of Florence, or the ethereal loveliness of that sweet scion of the
English nobility, moulded by Chantrey in all the soft and lithe grace of childhood, holding
a contented dove to her bosom.

Even as the subject of taste, independently of historical diversities, sculpture presents every
degree of the meretricious, the grotesque, and the beautiful,--more emphatically, because more
palpably, than is observable in painting. The inimitable Grecian standard is an immortal precedent;
the Mediaeval carvings embody the rude Teutonic truthfulness; where Canova provoked comparison
with the antique, as in the Perseus and Venus, his more gross ideal is painfully evident. How
artificial seems Bernini in contrast with Angelo! How minutely expressive are the terra-cotta
images of Spain! What a climax of absurdity teases the eye in the monstrosities in stone which
draw travellers in Sicily to the eccentric nobleman's villa, near Palermo! Who does not shrink
from the French allegory and horrible melodrama of Roubillac's monument to Miss Nightingale,
in Westminster Abbey? How like Horace Walpole to dote on Ann Conway's canine groups!

It is this fixedness and placidity, conveying the impression of fate, death, repose, or immortality,
which render sculpture so congenial as commemorative of the departed. Even quaint wooden effigies,
like those in St. Mary's Church at Chester, with the obsolete peaked beards, ruffs, and broadswords,
accord with the venerable associations of a Mediaeval tomb; while marble figures, typifying
Grief, Poetry, Fame, or Hope, brooding over the lineaments of the illustrious dead, seem, of
all sepulchral decorations, the most apt and impressive. We remember, after exploring the plain
of Ravenna on an autumn day, and rehearsing the famous battle in which the brave young Gaston
de Foix fell, how the associations of the scene and story were defined and deepened as we gazed
on the sculptured form of a recumbent knight in armor, preserved in the academy of the old
city; it seemed to bring back and stamp with brave renown forever the gallant soldier who so
long ago perished there in battle. In Cathedral and Parthenon, under the dome of the Invalides,
in the sequestered parish church or the rural cemetery, what image so accords with the sad
reality and the serene hope of humanity, as the adequate marble personification on sarcophagus
and beneath shrine, in mausoleum or on turf-mound?

  "His palms infolded on his breast,
  There is no other thought express'd
  But long disquiet merged in rest."

In truth, it is for want of comprehensive perception that we take so readily for granted the
limited scope of this glorious art. There is in the Grecian mythology alone a remarkable variety
of character and expression, as perpetuated by the statuary; and when to her deities we add
the athletes, charioteers, and marble portraits, a realm of diverse creations is opened. Indeed,
to the average modern mind, it is the statues of Grecian divinities that constitute the poetic
charm of her history; abstractly, we regard them with the poet:--

  "Their gods? what were their gods?
  There's Mars, all bloody-haired; and Hercules,
  Whose soul was in his sinews; Pluto, blacker
  Than his own hell; Vulcan, who shook his horns
  At every limp he took; great Bacchus rode
  Upon a barrel; and in a cockle-shell
  Neptune kept state; then Mercury was a thief;
  Juno a shrew; Pallas a prude, at best;
  And Venus walked the clouds in search of lovers;
  Only great Jove, the lord and thunderer,
  Sat in the circle of his starry power
  And frowned 'I will!' to all."

Not in their marble beauty do they thus ignobly impress us,--but calm, fair, strong, and immortal.
"They seem," wrote Hazlitt, "to have no sympathy with us, and not to want our admiration. In
their faultless excellence they appear sufficient to themselves."

In the sculptor's art, more than on the historian's page, lives the most glorious memory of
the classic past. A visit to the Vatican by torchlight endears even these poor traditional
deities forever.

  On lofty ceilings vivid frescoes glow,
    Auroras beam,
  The steeds of Neptune through the waters go,
    Or Sibyls dream.

  As in the flickering torchlight shadows weaved
    Illusions wild,
  Methought Apollo's bosom slightly heaved
    And Juno smiled.

  Aerial Mercuries in bronze upspring,
    Dianas fly,
  And marble Cupids to the Psyches cling
    Without a sigh.

To this variety in unity, this wealth of antique genius, Crawford brought the keen relish of
an observant and the aptitude of a creative mind. His taste in Art was eminently catholic;
he loved the fables and the personages of Greece because of this very diversity of character,--the
freedom to delineate human instincts and passions under a mythological guise,--just as Keats
prized the same themes as giving broad range to his fanciful muse. A list of our prolific sculptor's
works is found to include the entire circle of subjects and styles appropriate to his art--first,
the usual classic themes, of which his first remarkable achievement was the Orpheus; then a
series of Christian or religious illustrations, from Adam and Saul to Christ at the Well of
Samaria; next, individual portraits; a series of domestic figures, such as the "Children in
the Wood," or "Truant Boys"; and, finally, what may be termed national statuary, of which Beethoven
and Washington are eminent exemplars. Like Thorwaldsen, Crawford excelled in basso-rilievo,
and was a remarkable pictorial sculptor. Having made early and intense studies of the antique,
he as carefully observed Nature; few statuaries have more keenly noted the action of childhood
or equestrian feats, so that the limbs and movement of the sweetest of human and the noblest
of brute creatures were critically known to him. In sculpture, we believe that a great secret
of the highest success lies in an intuitive eclecticism, whereby the faultless graces of the
antique are combined with just observation of Nature. Without correct imitative facility, a
sculptor wanders from the truth and the fact of visible things; without ideality, he makes
but a mechanical transcript; without invention, he but repeats conventional traits. The desirable
medium, the effective principle, has been well defined by the author of "Scenes and Thoughts
in Europe":-- "Art does not merely copy Nature; it cooeperates with her, it makes palpable
her finest essence, it reveals the spiritual source of the corporeal by the perfection of its
incarnations." That Crawford invariably kept himself to "the height of this great argument"
it were presumptuous to assert; but that he constantly approached such an ideal, and that he
sometimes seized its vital principle, the varied and expressive forms yet conserved in his
studio at Rome emphatically attest. He had obtained command of the vocabulary of his art; in
expressing it, like all men who strive largely, he was unequal. Some of his creations are far
more felicitous than others; he sometimes worked too fast, and sometimes undertook what did
not greatly inspire him; but when we reflect on the limited period of his artist-life, on the
intrepid advancement of its incipient stages under the pressure of narrow means and comparative
solitude, on the extraordinary progress, the culminating force, the numerous trophies, and
the acknowledged triumphs of a life of labors, so patiently achieved, and suddenly cut off
in mid career,--we cannot but recognize a consummate artist and the grandest promise yet vouchsafed
to the cause of national Art.

Shelley used to say that a Roman peasant is as good a judge of sculpture as the best academician
or anatomist. It is this direct appeal, this elemental simplicity, which constitutes the great
distinction and charm of the art. There is nothing evasive and mysterious; in dealing with
form and expression through features and attitude, average observation is a reliable test.
The same English poet was right in declaring that the Greek sculptors did not find their inspiration
in the dissecting-room; yet upon no subject has criticism displayed greater insight on the
one hand and pedantry on the other, than in the discussion of these very chefs-d'oeuvre of
antiquity. While Michel Angelo, who was at Rome when the Laocooen was discovered, hailed it
as "the wonder of Art," and scholars identified the group with a famous one described by Pliny,
Canova thought that the right arm of the father was not in its right position, and the other
restorations in the work have all been objected to. Goethe recognized a profound sagacity in
the artist: "If," he wrote, "we try to place the bite in some different position, the whole
action is changed, and we find it impossible to conceive one more fitting; the situation of
the bite renders necessary the whole action of the limbs";--and another critic says, "In the
group of the Laocooen, the breast is expanded and the throat contracted to show that the agonies
that convulse the frame are borne in silence." In striking contrast with such testimonies to
the scientific truth to Nature in Grecian Art was the objection I once heard an American back-woods
mechanic make to this celebrated work; he asked why the figures were seated in a row on a dry-goods
box, and declared that the serpent was not of a size to coil round so small an arm as the child's,
without breaking its vertebrae. So disgusted was Titian with the critical pedantry elicited
by this group, that, in ridicule thereof, he painted a caricature,--three monkeys writhing
in the folds of a little snake.

Yet, despite the jargon of connoisseurship, against which Byron, while contemplating the Venus
de Medici, utters so eloquent an invective, sculpture is a grand, serene, and intelligible
art,--more so than architecture and painting,--and, as such, justly consecrated to the heroic
and the beautiful in man and history. It is predominantly commemorative. How the old cities
of Europe are peopled to the imagination, as well as the eye, by the statues of their traditional
rulers or illustrious children, keeping, as it were, a warning sign, or a sublime vigil, silent,
yet expressive, in the heart of busy life and through the lapse of ages! We could never pass
Duke Cosmo's imposing effigy in the old square of Florence without the magnificent patronage
and the despotic perfidy of the Medicean family being revived to memory with intense local
association,--nor note the ugly mitred and cloaked papal figures, with hands extended, in the
mockery of benediction, over the beggars in the piazzas of Romagna, without Ranke's frightful
picture of Church abuses reappearing, as if to crown these brazen forms with infamy. There
was always a gleam of poetry,--however sad,--on the most foggy day, in the glimpse afforded
from our window, in Trafalgar Square, of that patient horseman, Charles the Martyr. How alive
old Neptune sometimes looked, by moonlight, in Rome, as we passed his plashing fountain! And
those German poets,--Goethe, Schiller, and Jean Paul,--what to modern eyes were Frankfort,
Stuttgart, and Baireuth, unconsecrated by their endeared forms? The most pleasant association
Versailles yielded us of the Bourbon dynasty was that inspired by Jeanne d'Arc, graceful in
her marble sleep, as sculptured by Marie d'Orleans; and the most impressive token of Napoleon's
downfall we saw in Europe was his colossal image intended for the square of Leghorn, but thrown
permanently on the sculptor's hands by the waning of his proud star. The statue of Heber, to
Christian vision, hallows Calcutta. The Perseus of Cellini breathes of the months of artistic
suspense, inspiration, and experiment, so graphically described in that clever egotist's memoirs.
One feels like blessing the grief-bowed figures at the tomb of Princess Charlotte, so truly
do their attitudes express our sympathy with the love and the sorrow her name excites. Would
not Sterne have felt a thrill of complacency, had he beheld his tableau of the Widow Wadman
and Uncle Toby so genially embodied by Ball Hughes? What more spirited symbol of prosperous
conquest can be imagined than the gilded horses of St. Mark's? How natural was Michel Angelo's
exclamation, "March!" as he gazed on Donatello's San Giorgio, in the Church of San Michele,--one
mailed hand on a shield, bare head, complete armor, and the foot advanced, like a sentinel
who hears the challenge, or a knight listening for the charge! Tenerani's "Descent from the
Cross," in the Torlonia Chapel, outlives in remembrance the brilliant assemblies of that financial
house. The outlines of Flaxman, essentially statuesque, seem alone adequate to illustrate to
the eye the great Mediaeval poet, whose verse seems often cut from stone in the quarries of
infernal destiny. How grandly sleep the lions of Canova at Pope Clement's tomb!

