PROJECT TRINITY

1945-1946

by

Carl Maag and Steve Rohrer

United States Atmospheric Nuclear Weapons Tests Nuclear Test Personnel Review

Prepared by the Defense Nuclear Agency as Executive Agency for the Department of Defense

Destroy this report when it is no longer needed. Do not return to sender.

PLEASE NOITIFY THE DEFENSE NUCLEAR AGENCY,
ATTN:  STTI, WASINGTON  D.C. 20305, IF
YOUR ADDRESS IS INCORRECT, IF YOU WISH TO
BE DELETED FROM THE DISTRIBUTION LIST, OR
IF THE ADDRESSEE IS NO LONGER EMPLOYED BY
YOUR ORGANIZATION. REPORT NUMBER:  DNA 6028F
  2. GOVT ACCESSION NO.:
  3. RECIPIENT'S CATALOG NUMBER:
  4. TITLE (and Subtitle):  PROJECT TRINITY 1945-1946
  5. TYPE OF REPORT & PERIOD COVERED:  Final Report
  6. PERFORMING ORG. REPORT NUMBER:  JRB 2-816-03-423-00
  7. AUTHOR(S):  Carl Maag, Steve Rorer
  8. CONTRACT OR GRANT NUMBER(S):  DNA 001-79-C-0473
  9. PERFORMING ORGANIZATION NAME AND ADDRESS:
   JRB Associates
   8400 Westpark Drive
   McLean, Virginia 22102
 10. PROGRAM ELEMENT.  PROJECT, TASK AREA & WORK UNIT NUMBERS:
   Subtask U99QAXMK506-08
 11. CONTROLLING OFFICE NAME AND ADDRESS:
   Director
   Defense Nuclear Agency
   Washington, D.C. 20305
 12. REPORT DATE:  15 December 1982
 13. NUMBER OF PAGES:  76
 14. MONITORING AGENCY NAME & ADDRESS(if different from Controlling
   Office):
 15. SECURITY CLASS. (of this report):  UNCLASSIFIED
 15a.  DECLASSIFICATION/DOWNGRADING SCHEDULE:  N/A Since UNCLASSIFIED
 16. DISTRIBUTION STATEMENT (of this Report):  Approved for public
   release; distribution unlimited.
 17. DISTRIBUTION STATEMENT (of the abstract entered In Block 20, If
   different from Report):
 18. SUPPLEMENTARY NOTES: This work was sponsored by the Defense
   Nuclear Agency under RDT&E RMSS Code B350079464 U99QAXMK50608 H2590D.
   For sale by National Technical Information Service, Springfield, VA
   22161.

   The Defense Nuclear Agency Action Officer, Lt. Col. H. L. Reese,
   USAF, under whom this work was done, wishes to acknowledge the
   research and editing contribution of numerous reviewers in the
   military services and other organizations in addition to those writers
   listed in block 7.

 19. KEY WORDS (Continue on reverse side if necessary and Identify by
   block number):
    TRINITY
    Los Alamos Scientific Laboratory
    Alamogordo Bombing Range
    Manhattan Engineer District
    Manhattan Project
    Personnel Dosimetry
    Radiation Exposure
    Nuclear Weapons Testing
 20. ABSTRACT: This report describes the activities of an estimated
   1,000 personnel, both military and civilian, in Project TRINITY, which
   culminated in detonation of the first nuclear device, in New Mexico in
   1945.  Scientific and diagnostic experiments to evaluate the effects
   of the nuclear device were the primary activities engaging military
   personnel.

FACT SHEET

Defense Nuclear Agency Public Affairs Office Washington, D C. 20305

Subject: Project TRINITY

Project TRINITY, conducted by the Manhattan Engineer District (MED), was designed to test and
assess the effects of a nuclear weapon.  The TRINITY nuclear device was detonated on a 100-foot
tower on the Alamogordo Bombing Range in south-central New Mexico at 0530 hours on 16 July
1945.  The nuclear yield of the detonation was equivalent to the energy released by detonating
19 kilotons of TNT.  At shot-time, the temperature was 21.8 degrees Celsius, and surface air
pressure was 850 millibars.  The winds were nearly calm at the surface; at 10,300 feet above
mean sea level, they were from the southwest at 10 knots. The winds blew the cloud resulting
from the detonation to the northeast.  From 16 July 1945 through 1946, about 1,000 military
and civilian personnel took part in Project TRINITY or visited the test site.  The location
of the test site and its major installations are shown in the accompanying figures.

Military and Scientific Activities

All participants in Project TRINITY, both military and civilian, were under the authority of
the MED.  No military exercises were conducted. The Los Alamos Scientific Laboratory (LASL),
which was staffed and administered by the University of California (under contract to the MED),
conducted diagnostic experiments.  Civilian and military scientists and technicians, with assistance
from other military personnel, placed gauges, detectors, and other instruments around ground
zero before the detonation.  Four offsite monitoring posts were established in the towns of
Nogal, Roswell, Socorro, and Fort Sumner, New Mexico.  An evacuation detachment consisting
of 144 to 160 enlisted men and officers was established in case protective measures or evacuation
of civilians living offsite became necessary.  At least 94 of these personnel were from the
Provisional Detachment Number 1, Company "B," of the 9812th Technical Service Unit, Army Corps
of Engineers.  Military police cleared the test area and recorded the locations of all personnel
before the detonation.

A radiological monitor was assigned to each of the three shelters, which were located to the
north, west, and south of ground zero.  Soon after the detonation, the monitors surveyed the
area immediately around the shelters and then proceeded out the access road to its intersection
with the main road, Broadway.  Personnel not essential to postshot activities were transferred
from the west and south shelters to the Base Camp, about 16 kilometers southwest of ground
zero. Personnel at the north shelter were evacuated when a sudden rise in radiation levels
was detected; it was later learned that the instrument had not been accurately calibrated and
levels had not increased as much as the instrument indicated.  Specially designated groups
conducted onsite and offsite radiological surveys.

Safety Standards and Procedures

The safety criteria established for Project TRINITY were based on calculations of the anticipated
dangers from blast pressure, thermal radiation, and ionizing radiation.  The TR-7 Group, also
known as the Medical Group, was responsible for radiological safety.  A limit of 5 roentgens
of exposure during a two-month period was established.

The Site and Offsite Monitoring Groups were both part of the Medical Group.  The Site Monitoring
Group was responsible for equipping personnel with protective clothing and instruments to measure
radiation exposure, monitoring and recording personnel exposure according to film badge readings
and time spent in the test area, and providing for personnel decontamination.  The Offsite
Monitoring Group surveyed areas surrounding the test site for radioactive fallout.  In addition
to these two monitoring groups, a small group of medical technicians provided radiation detection
instruments and monitoring.

Radiation Exposures at Project TRINITY

Dosimetry information is available for about 815 individuals who either participated in Project
TRINITY activities or visited the test site between 16 July 1945 and 1 January 1947.  The listing
does not indicate the precise military or unit affiliation of all personnel. Less than six
percent of the Project TRINITY participants received exposures greater than 2 roentgens.  Twenty-three
of these individuals received exposures greater than 2 but less than 4 roentgens; another 22
individuals received between 4 and 15 roentgens.

PREFACE

From 1945 to 1962, the U.S. Government, through the Manhattan Engineer District (MED) and its
successor agency, the Atomic Energy Commission (AEC), conducted 235 tests of nuclear devices
at sites in the United States and in the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans.  In all, an estimated
220,000 Department of Defense (DOD)* participants, both military and civilian, were present
at the tests.  Project TRINITY, the war-time effort to test-fire a nuclear explosive device,
was the first atmospheric nuclear weapons test.

 * The MED, which was part of the Army Corps of Engineers, administered
 the U.S. nuclear testing program until the AEC came into existence in
 1946.  Before DOD was established in 1947, the Army Corps of Engineers
 was under the War Department.

In 1977, 15 years after the last above-ground nuclear weapons test, the Centers for Disease
Control** noted a possible leukemia cluster among a small group of soldiers present at Shot
SMOKY, a test of Operation PLUMBBOB, the series of atmospheric nuclear weapons tests conducted
in 1957.  Since that initial report by the Centers for Disease Control, the Veterans Administration
has received a number of claims for medical benefits from former military personnel who believe
their health may have been affected by their participation in the weapons testing program.

 ** The Centers for Disease Control are part of the U.S.  Department of
 Health and Human Services (formerly the U.S.  Department of Health,
 Education, and Welfare).

In late 1977, DOD began a study to provide data to both the Centers for Disease Control and
the Veterans Administration on potential exposures to ionizing radiation among the military
and civilian participants in atmospheric nuclear weapons testing.  DOD organized an effort to:

o Identify DOD personnel who had taken part in the atmospheric nuclear weapons tests

o Determine the extent of the participants' exposure to ionizing radiation

o Provide public disclosure of information concerning participation by military personnel in
Project TRINITY.

METHODS AND SOURCES USED TO PREPARE THIS VOLUME

This report on Project TRINITY is based on historical and technical documents associated with
the detonation of the first nuclear device on 16 July 1945.  The Department of Defense compiled
information for this volume from documents that record the scientific activities during Project
TRINITY.  These records, most of which were developed by participants in TRINITY, are kept
in several document repositories throughout the United States.

In compiling information for this report, historians, health physicists, radiation specialists,
and information analysts canvassed document repositories known to contain materials on atmospheric
nuclear weapons tests conducted in the southwestern United States. These repositories included
armed services libraries, Government agency archives and libraries, Federal repositories, and
libraries of scientific and technical laboratories.  Researchers examined classified and unclassified
documents containing information on the participation of personnel from the MED, which supervised
Project TRINITY, and from the Los Alamos Scientific Laboratory (LASL), which developed the
TRINITY device.  After this initial effort, researchers recorded relevant information concerning
the activities of MED and LASL personnel and catalogued the data sources.  Many of the documents
pertaining specifically to MED and LASL participation were found in the Defense Nuclear Agency
Technical Library and the LASL Records Center.

Information on the fallout pattern, meteorological conditions, and nuclear cloud dimensions
is taken from Volume 1 of the General Electric Company-TEMPO's "Compilation of Local Fallout
Data from Test Detonations 1945-1962, Extracted from DASA 1251," unless more specific information
is available elsewhere.

ORGANIZATION OF THIS VOLUME

The following chapters detail MED and LASL participation in Project TRINITY.  Chapter 1 provides
background information, including a description of the TRINITY test site.  Chapter 2 describes
the activities of MED and LASL participants before, during, and after the detonation.  Chapter
3 discusses the radiological safety criteria and procedures in effect for Project TRINITY,
and chapter 4 presents the results of the radiation monitoring program, including information
on film badge readings for participants in the project.

The information in this report is supplemented by the Reference Manual: Background Materials
for the CONUS Volumes." The manual summarizes information on radiation physics, radiation health
concepts, exposure criteria, and measurement techniques.  It also lists acronyms and includes
a glossary of terms used in the DOD reports addressing test events in the continental United
States.

CHAPTER 1

INTRODUCTION

Project TRINITY was the name given to the war-time effort to produce the first nuclear detonation.
A plutonium-fueled implosion device was detonated on 16 July 1945 at the Alamogordo Bombing
Range in south-central New Mexico.

Three weeks later, on 6 August, the first uranium-fueled nuclear bomb, a gun-type weapon code-named
LITTLE BOY, was detonated over the Japanese city of Hiroshima.  On 9 August, the FAT MAN nuclear
bomb, a plutonium-fueled implosion weapon identical to the TRINITY device, was detonated over
another Japanese city, Nagasaki.  Two days later, the Japanese Government informed the United
States of its decision to end the war.  On 2 September 1945, the Japanese Empire officially
surrendered to the Allied Governments, bringing World War II to an end.

In the years devoted to the development and construction of a nuclear weapon, scientists and
technicians expanded their knowledge of nuclear fission and developed both the gun-type and
the implosion mechanisms to release the energy of a nuclear chain reaction.  Their knowledge,
however, was only theoretical.  They could be certain neither of the extent and effects of
such a nuclear chain reaction, nor of the hazards of the resulting blast and radiation.  Protective
measures could be based only on estimates and calculations.  Furthermore, scientists were reasonably
confident that the gun-type uranium-fueled device could be successfully detonated, but they
did not know if the more complex firing technology required in an implosion device would work.
Successful detonation of the TRINITY device showed that implosion would work, that a nuclear
chain reaction would result in a powerful detonation, and that effective means exist to guard
against the blast and radiation produced.

1.1  HISTORICAL BACKGROUND OF PROJECT TRINITY

The development of a nuclear weapon was a low priority for the United States before the outbreak
of World War II.  However, scientists exiled from Germany had expressed concern that the Germans
were developing a nuclear weapon.  Confirming these fears, in 1939 the Germans stopped all
sales of uranium ore from the mines of occupied Czechoslovakia.  In a letter sponsored by group
of concerned scientists, Albert Einstein informed President Roosevelt that German experiments
had shown that an induced nuclear chain reaction was possible and could be used to construct
extremely powerful bombs (7; 12)*.

 * All sources cited in the text are listed alphabetically in the
 reference list at the end of this volume.  The number given in the
 text corresponds to the number of the source document in the reference
 list.

In response to the potential threat of a German nuclear weapon, the United States sought a
source of uranium to use in determining the feasibility of a nuclear chain reaction.  After
Germany occupied Belgium in May 1940, the Belgians turned over uranium ore from their holdings
in the Belgian Congo to the United States.  Then, in March 1941, the element plutonium was
isolated, and the plutonium-239 isotope was found to fission as readily as the scarce uranium
isotope, uranium-235.  The plutonium, produced in a uranium-fueled nuclear reactor, provided
the United States with an additional source of material for nuclear weapons (7; 12).

