Richard Haley, or Hales.--Milton Pedigree.--I should feel obliged by any particulars respecting
Richard Haley, or Hales, of Idlestreete, otherwise Ilstreyd, in com. Hertford, yeoman; my object
being to ascertain the nature of some transaction he had with Milton, in July 1674, referred
to in a bond which the former executed, dated the 27th of that month, for performance of the
covenants contained in an indenture of even date.

Is any thing known of Richard Milton, who signs his name as the attesting witness to the releases
given by two of the poet's daughters for their share of his estate? Is there any pedigree of
the family of Sir Christopher Milton, the poet's brother, drawn up with sufficient apparent
accuracy to exclude the probability of Richard Milton being his son? I have referred to the
pedigree in the British Museum (Harl. MS. 5802. fo. 19b.), which makes no mention of the letter;
but it is evidently so imperfect a notice, as to be of little authority one way or other.

J.F.M.

Sapcote Motto.--Over the old gatehouse of Elton, co. Hunts., built by the family of Sapcote,
is their coat of arms, namely, "three dove-cotes;" and upon a scroll, surrounding the lower
part of the shield, is carved a motto, evidently French, and as evidently cut by a person ignorant
of that language. So far as I can decypher it, the letters appear to be

  sco toot X vinic [or umic]
  X poncs.

Possibly the first and last letters s are only flourishes. I shall be glad of any suggestion
as to its meaning.

I have not been able to find the Sapcote motto on record; and I believe the Carysfoot family,
the possessors of Elton, and the Duke of Bedford, the heir in blood, to be ignorant of what
this scroll is intended to represent.

Erminois.

Athenæum Club.

Scala Coeli.--In a will, dated 12 Hen. VIII., the testator directs that there shall be four
trentals of Saint Gregory said for his soul at London at "Scala Coeli." Can any of your readers
explain what place is meant by "Scala Coeli?"

A Subscriber.

Illustrations of Gresset's "Vert Vert," painted on Enamel, &c.--In a Paris edition of Gresset's
Works (Janet et Cotelle, 1823), in the preface is the following passage.--

    "Vert-vert fut bientôt dans toutes les mains. Le suffrage de
    la multitude se joignit à celui des connoisseurs; la mode, qui
    est aussi en possession de donner son suffrage, s'empressa de
    parer les ajustemens d'invention récente, du nom de l'illustre
    perroquet; les vases d'ornement, les vases usuels qui
    sortoient des fabriques françoises, retraçoient presque tous
    quelques épisodes du petit poëme. Un artist dont le nom est
    venu jusqu'à nous, Raux, en peignit sur émail les sujets
    les plus marquants; et tandis qu'on faisoit passer dans une
    version latine les vers élégants du poëte jésuite, M. Bertin,
    ministre d'état, le gratifioit d'un magnifique cabaret de
    Sèvres, dont toutes les pièces reproduisoient les aventures
    de son héros, ce qui fit dire à Gresset, qu'on le traduisoit
    aussi en porcelaine de Sèvres." {367}

The Query I wish to make is, Have any of these illustrations or designs from Gresset's poem
of Vert-vert, painted on enamel china, or earthenware of any sort, of French or any other manufacture,
come to light of late years? or more lately still, among the articles that have been dispersed
among various buyers of almost all nations, in the sales within these few weeks effected at Paris?

Robert Snow.

Urbanus Regius.--A friend of mine, a delightful old lady, fresh, genial, and inquisitive, has
in her possession an old volume, a family heir-loom, which is not the less dear to her for
being somewhat dingy and dilapidated, and touching which she would gladly receive such information
as your correspondents can supply.

It is made up of three apparently distinct treatises; the first (of which several leaves are
wanting) on the twelve articles of the Apostles' Creed. The second is "The ryght foundation,
and pryncypall common places of the hole godly Scripture," &c., by Doctor Urbanus Regius. Prefixed
is an epistle to Thomas, Archbishop of Canterbury (evidently Cranmer), to whom "Hys dayly oratoure,
Gwalter Lynne (the writer of the epistle), wyssheth lyfe euerlastynge." Between this second
treatise and the third, and apparently belonging to the latter, is a title-page with the following
inscription:

    "Imprinted for Gwalter Lynne, dwelling upon Somers Kaye, by
    Byllinges gate. In the yeare of oure Lorde. MDXLVIII. And they
    by [sic] to be solde at Poules church yarde at the north
    doore, In the signe of the By-bell, By Richard Jugge."

This last treatise is in smaller type than the others, and has no general designation: it contains
chapters on various subjects, e.g. "The Signification of Baptism," &c.

Query 1. Is this volume well known? 2. Who were Urbanus Regius and Walter Lynne?

G.P.

March 16. 1850.

       *       *       *       *       *

REPLIES.

THE ARABIC NUMERALS AND CIPHER.

I might, with a little more consideration, have referred "E.V." to several other authorities
which he will do well to consult.

9. Wallis's Algebra, p. 9. and p. 153. of the additions.

10. Phil. Trans., Nos. 439. and 475.

11. Montucla, Histoire des Mathématiques, tom. i. chap. 2.

12. Baillie, Histoire de l'Astronomie.

13. Delambre[1], Hist. de l'Astr. du moyen age.

14. Hutton's Tracts (8vo. ed. 1812.), vol. ii. (subject "History of Algebra")

15. Huet, Demonstratio Evangelica.

16. Dr. John Taylor's Translation of the Lilawati. (Bombay, 1816.)

17. Strachey's Translation of the Bija Ganita[2].

18. Colebrooke's Algebra of the Hindus.

Would it not be worth while to give a facsimile of the "Tabel for all manere of merchauntes,"
in the "Notes and Queries"? It is not only a curiosity, but an important element (and unique
as far as is known) in the philosophic history of our arithmetic. It was, no doubt, an actual
instrument in constant use in the merchant's office, as much so as an almanac, interest-tables,
a "cambist" and a copying-press, are now.

As regards the cipher, the difficulty only commenced with writing numbers in the new symbology.
With persons accustomed to the use of this instrument, there is no doubt that the mode of obviating
the difficulty of "keeping the place," would suggest itself at once. In this instrument an
empty hole (without its peg) signified "none of this denomination." What then more simple than
to make the outline of the empty hole which occupied the "local position" of any denomination,
when none of that precise denomination occurred in the number itself? Under this view the process
at least becomes simple and natural; and as the early merchants contributed so largely to the
improvement of our arithmetical processes, such a conclusion is wholly divested of improbability
on any other ground. The circle would then naturally become, as it certainly has practically
become, the most appropriate symbol of nothingness.

As regards the term cipher or zero (which are so obviously the same as to need no remark),
it is admitted on all hands to be derived from one or other of the Semitic languages, the Hebrew
or the Arabic. It is customery with the mathematical historians to refer it to the Arabic,
they being in general more conversant with it than with the Hebrew. The Arabic being a smaller
hand than the Hebrew, a dot was used instead of the circle for marking the "place" at which
the hiatus of any "denomination" occurred. If we obtained our cipher from this, it would be
made hollow (a mere ceinture, girdle, or ring) to save the trouble of making a dot sufficiently
large to correspond in magnitude with our other numerals as we write them. Either is alike
possible--probability must be sought, for either over the other, from a slightly different source.

The root-words in Hebrew and in Arabic are precisely the same (ts-ph-r), though in the two
{368} languages, and at different ages of the same language, they might have been vowelised
differently. In some shape or other, this name is used in all countries that have derived their
arithmetic from mediæval Italy, or from the Saracens. It is with some cipher, with others chiffre,
and with all zero. The word is certainly no more Italian than it is French or English. Be it
remembered, too, that ezor (quoted at p. 268.), as a girdle, is radically the same word, somewhat
mutilated. The cardinal meaning of the word (denuded of the conventional accretions of signification,
which peculiar applications of it adds to the cardinal meaning) appears to be emptiness, hollowness,
nothingness. It may be further remarked, that in the fine Chartres MS. of Boetius, described
by Chasles, the 0 is called sipos:--the same name, he remarks, that Graves found in use in
the East. The modern Turks call the 0, tsifra.

It is curious enough that in all languages, the term ciphering is popularly used to denote
all arithmetical operations whatever. Our schoolboys do their "ciphering," and write carefully
in their "ciphering-books." This all seems to point to the art of dispensing with the use of
the abacus or counting table.

T.S.D.

Shooter's Hill, March 5.

[1] The best account, because the most consistent and intelligible, of the Greek arithmetic,
is that by Delambre, affixed to Peyraud's edition of Archimedes.

[2] At a period of leisure I may be tempted to send you a few extracts, somewhat curious, from
some of the papers of Mr. Strachey in my possession.

Arabic Numerals.--I had replied to "E.V." (No. 15. p. 230.), when I saw by your "Notice to
Correspondents," that the question was answered. I therefore waited the publication of the
replies, which I find do not embrace any one of the points to which I would call the attention
of "E.V."--Diophantus of Alexandria, who flourished about 150 years after Christ, and who wrote
thirteen books of algebra or arithmetic in the Greek language, is generally supposed to be
the oldest writer on the subject that has come down to our time; but it was not from him that
we received the knowledge of algebra in Europe. It appears certain that the first knowledge
of this science in England was from Italy or Spain, after the Moors settled in the latter country;
and the Arabians and Persians appear to have derived their arithmetical method of computing
by ten characters from the Indians: who, in their turn, have most probably borrowed from the
Chinese, and improved on their method by the adoption of a zero, which was one of the most
important improvements effected by the Hindoos. In China, the words ancient and modern are
almost synonymous; their usages and customs being so unchangeable, as appears by their instrument
of computation, the swanpan, which is still used in all their calculations. The Oriental scholar
will find much curious and interesting information connected with this subject in the Sanscrit
Vija Ganita and Lilivati of Bhaskara Acharya: the former was translated into Persian at Agra,
or Delhi, in 1634, and the latter by Fyzee in 1587; but there are also English translations,
all of which are in the library of the Royal Asiatic Society. The Khalasah-ul-Hisah is another
work of repute in India. Mr. Strachey wrote and printed in India, for the Asiatic Researches,
a valuable paper, which contains most conclusive evidence of the Indian (if not Chinese) origin
of our numerals. See also Astronomie Indienne, of M. Bailly; 2d vol. Asiatic Researches, "On
the Astronomical Computations of the Hindoos," by Saml. Davis; "Two Dissertations on Indian
Astronomy and Trigonometry," by Professor Playfair, in the 2d and 4th vols. of the Edinburgh
Philosophical Transactions. And many others might be referred to; but all tending to prove
that our numbers came originally from China and India, through Persia, Arabia, Africa, Spain,
and Italy, by gradual and successive changes in form, several of them still retaining a close
resemblance to the ancient and modern Sanscrit, Chinese, Arabic, Persian, and Hindoo numerals.

Henry Wilkinson.

       *       *       *       *       *

REPLIES TO MINOR QUERIES.

I send you a few Notes on Queries scattered through some of the later numbers of your very
valuable publication:

Anonymous Ravennas.--In the library of the Royal Geographical Society, I believe there is a
copy of an 8vo. edition of that cosmography.

Selago.--This plant, I should think it probable, is the Lycopodium clavatum of modern botanists;
the seeds of which, when ripe, and when the plant is struck, rise like smoke ("fumum" of Pliny),
and may have been supposed, from their remarkable inflammability when dashed into a flame,
igniting with a sudden flash, to have possessed wonderful virtues. The species known as Lycopodium
selago is rare in comparison to the other.

Portugal.--In the library of the Geographical Society are some of the more recent works published
in Lisbon on the topography of that country, but they are generally very meagre and unsatisfactory.
In a periodical published in Lisbon in numbers, on the plan of the Penny Magazine, there is
a good deal of information, with engravings, regarding many places of interest in Portugal.
I think it is called The Album, but I am sorry I have not at present the power of sending you
more correct particulars concerning it. It is in 4to.

Portugal is a country that is so little travelled in either by natives or foreigners, that
information regarding places in the interior is not easily obtained; and facilities for travelling,
as well as accommodation for travellers, is of a very limited description.

Sir Roger de Coverley.--In one of your early numbers was a query on this subject, which I do
not think has been yet answered. I have a MS. {369} account of the family of Calverley, of
Calverley, in Yorkshire, an autograph of Ralph Thoresby in the year 1717, in which occurs the
following passage:--

    "Roger, so named from the Archbishop" (of York), "was
    a person of renowned hospitality, since, at this day, the
    obsolete known tune of Roger a Calverley is referred to
    him, who, according to the custom of those times, kept his
    minstrells, from that their office named harpers, which
    became a family and possessed lands till late years in and
    about Calverley, called to this day Harpersroids and
    Harper's Spring.... He was a knight, and lived in the time
    of K. Richard 1st. His seal, appended to one of his charters,
    is large, with a chevalier on horseback."

W. CALVERLEY TREVELYAN.

       *       *       *       *       *

DERIVATIONS OF "NEWS."

It is not declared with what motive "Mr. GUTCH" (No. 17. p. 270.) has laid before the readers
of "NOTES AND QUERIES" the alleged derivation of N.E.W.S.

It must therefore be supposed, that his object was to have its justness and probability commented
upon; and it is quite time that they should be so, since the derivation in question has of
late become quite a favourite authoritative dictum with etymology compilers. Thus it may be
found, in the very words and form adopted by your correspondent, in Haydn's Dictionary of Dates,
and in other authorities of equal weight.

This sort of initial-letter derivation was probably brought into fashion in England by the
alleged origin of "Cabal," or, perhaps, by the many guesses at the much disputed word "Æra."
I shall take the liberty of quoting a few sentences with reference to such etymologies, as
a class, which I find in an unpublished manuscript upon a kindred subject.

    "Besides, such a splitting up of a word of significant and
    perfect meaning in itself is always a bad and suspicious mode
    of derivation.

    "It is generally an after-thought, suggested by some
    fortuitous or fancied coincidence, that appropriateness of
    which is by no means a sufficient proof of probability.

    "Of this there can scarcely be a better example than the
    English word 'news,' which, notwithstanding the felicity of
    its supposed derivation from the four cardinal points, must,
    nevertheless, so long as the corresponding words 'nova,'
    'nouvelles,' &c. exist, be consigned to its more sober and
    common-place origin in the adjective 'new.'"

To this it must be added that the ancient orthography of the word newes, completely upsets
the derivation Mr. Gutch has brought before your readers. Hone quotes from "one Burton, printed
in 1614: 'if any one read now-a-days, it is a play-book, or a pamphlet of newes."

I had been in two minds whether or not to send this communication, when the scale is completely
turned by the apropos occurrence of a corroboration of this latter objection in "NOTES AND
QUERIES" of this day. Mr. Rimbault mentions (at p. 277.), "a rare black letter volume entitled
Newes from Scotland, 1591."

Here is one more proof of the usefulness of your publication, that I am thus enabled to strengthen
the illustration of a totally different subject by the incidental authority of a fellow correspondent.

A.E.B.

Leeds, March, 1850.

       *       *       *       *       *

REPLIES TO MINOR QUERIES.

Swot is, as the querist supposes, a military cant term, and a sufficiently vulgar one too.
It originated at the great slang-manufactory for the army, the Royal Military College, Sandhurst.
You may depend upon the following account of it, which I had many years ago from the late Thomas
Leybourne, F.R.S., Senior Professor of Mathematics in that college.

One of the Professors, Dr. William Wallace, in addition to his being a Scotchman, had a bald
head, and an exceedingly "broad Scotch" accent, besides a not very delicate discrimination
in the choice of his English terms relating to social life. It happened on one hot summer's
day, nearly half a century ago, that he had been teaching a class, and had worked himself into
a considerable effusion from the skin. He took out his handkerchief, rubbed his head and forehead
violently, and exclaimed in his Perthshire dialect,--"It maks one swot." This was a God-send
to the "gentlemen cadets," wishing to achieve a notoriety as wits and slangsters; and mathematics
generally ever after became swot, and mathematicians swots. I have often heard it said:--"I
never could do swot well, Sir;" and "these dull fellows, the swots, can talk of nothing but
triangles and equations."

I should have thought that the sheer disgustingness of the idea would have shut the word out
of the vocabularies of English gentlemen. It remains nevertheless a standard term in the vocabulary
of an English soldier. It is well, at all events, that future ages should know its etymology.

T.S.D.

Pokership, (antè, pp. 185. 218. 269. 282. 323, 324.)--I am sorry to see that no progress has
yet been made towards a satisfactory explanation of this office. I was in hopes that something
better than mere conjecture would have been supplied from the peculiar facilities of "T.R.F."
"W.H.C." (p. 323.) has done little more than refer to the same instruments as had been already
adverted to by me in p. 269., with the new reading {370} of poulterer for poker! With repect
to "T.R.F.'s" conjecture, I should be more ready to accept it if he could produce a single
example of the word pawker, in the sense of a hog-warden. The quotation from the Pipe-roll
of John is founded on a mistake. The entry occurs in other previous rolls, and is there clearly
explained to refer to the porter of Hereford Castle. Thus, in Pipe 2 Hen. II. and 3 Hen. II.
we have, under Hereford,

  "In liberatione portarii castelli ... 30s. 5d."

In Pipe 1 Ric. I. we have,

  "In liberatione constitutâ portarii de Hereford, 30s. 5d."

Again, in Pipe 3 Joh.

  "In liberatione constitutâ portario de Hereford, 30s. 5d."

A similar entry is to be found in other rolls, as well printed as inedited. I could indulge
some other criticisms on the communication of your correspondent in Spring Gardens, but I prefer
encouraging him to make further inquiries, and to produce from the records in his custody some
more satisfactory solution of the difficulty. In the meantime, let me refer to a Survey of
Wrigmore Castle in the Lansdowne Collection, No. 40. fo. 82. The surveyor there reports, that
the paling, rails, &c. of the park are much decayed in many and sundry places, and he estimates
the repairs, with allowance of timber from the wood there, "by good surveye and oversight of
the poker and other officers of the said parke," at 4l. The date of the survey is 13 May, 1584.

Comparing this notice of the office with the receiver's accounts tempore Hen. VII. and Hen.
VIII. (antè, p. 269.), in which the officer is called "pocarius omnium boscorum," I cannot
doubt that his duty, or at least one of his duties, was that of woodward, and that, as such,
he assigned timber for repair of the premises. How he came by his local title and style of
poker is a mystery on which we have all hitherto failed to throw any light. This we learn from
Walsingham, who says:

    "Archiepiscopus verò Cantuariæ præsenti consensit electioni,
    ut omnes prælati et archiepiscopus quidem assumpto themate,
    Vox populi Vox Dei, sermonem fecit populo, exhortans
    omnes ut apud regem regum intercederent pro electo."--Tho.
    Walsingham, Hist. Angl. ed. Camden, p. 126.

DANIEL ROCK.

A living Dog better than a dead Lion.--I no not know whether your correspondent (No. 22. p.
352.) ever goes to church; but if he is not prevented by rain next St. Swithin's day, he will
learn who was the author of this proverb. It will be a good thing, if your work should sometimes
lead your readers to search the Scriptures, and give them credit for wisdom that has flowed
from them so long, and far, and wide, that its source is forgotten; but this is not the place
for a sermon, and I now only add, "here endeth the first lesson" from

ECCLESIASTES.

    ["J.E.," "D.D.," and other correspondents, have also replied
    to this Query by references to Eccl. ix. 4.]

Curious Monumental Brass (No. 16. p. 247.)--If "RAHERE" will turn to Mr. Boutell's Monumental
Brasses and Slabs, p. 148., he will there find a description as well as an engraving of what,
from his account, I doubt not he will discover to be the identical fragment to which he refers.
A foot legend, and what remains of a border inscription, is added to it. In the above work,
pp. 147 to 155, and in the Oxford Architectural Society's Manual for the Study of Brasses,
p. 15., "RAHERE" will find an account and references to numerous examples of palimpsest brasses,
to which class the one in question belongs.

I presume that "RAHERE" is a young brass-rubber, or the fact of a plate being engraved on both
sides would have presented no difficulty to him.

ARUN.

    [We have received several other replies to this Query,
    referring to Mr. Boutell's Monumental Brasses: one from
    "W."; another from "A CORNISHMAN," who says,--

    "The brass in question, when I saw it last, had been
    removed from the Rectory and placed in the tomb of Abbot
    Wheathampstead, in company with the famous one of Thomas
    Delamere, another Abbot of St. Albans."

    Another from "E.V.," who states,--

    "Other examples are found at St. Margaret's, Rochester (where
    the cause of the second engraving is found to be an error in
    costume in the first), St. Martins at Plain, Norwich, Hedgerly
    Church, Bucks, and Burwell Church, Cambridgeshire. Of this
    last, an engraving and description, by Mr. A.W. Franks,
    is given in the fourteenth part of the Publications of the
    Cambridge Antiquarian Society."

    One from "WILLIAM SPARROW SIMPSON," who says,--

    "It is also described in the Oxford Architectural Society's
    Manual of Mon. Brasses, No. 6. pp. 6, 7. other examples of
    which occur at Rochester, Kent, and at Cobham, Surrey. A small
    plate of brass, in the possession of a friend, has on one side
    a group of children, and on the reverse the uplifted hands of
    an earlier figure."

    And lastly, one from "A.P.H." (to which we cannot do ample
    justice, as we do not keep an engraver), from which we extract
    the following passages:--

    "A friend of mine has a shield in his possession, taken from
    a slab, and which has been enamelled. It is of late date
    and rudely executed. On the back is {371} seen the hands and
    breast of a small female figure, very nearly a century earlier
    in date. I can also remember an inscription in Cuxton Church,
    Kent, which was loose, and had another inscription on the back
    in the same manner.

    "I am very much impressed with the idea that the destroyed
    brasses never had been used at all; but had been engraved,
    and then, from circumstances that of course we cannot hope to
    fathom, thrown on one side till the metal might be used for
    some other purpose. This, I think, is a more probable, as well
    as a more charitable explanation than the one usually given of
    the so-called palimpsest brasses."]

Chapels (No. 20. p. 333.).--As to the origin of the name, will you allow me to refer Mr. Gatty
to Ducange's Glossary, where he will find much that is to his purpose.

As to its being "a legal description," I will not undertake to give an opinion without a fee;
but I will mention a fact which may assist him in forming one. I believe that fifty years ago
the word Chapel was very seldom used among those who formed what was termed the "Dissenting
Interest;" that is, the three "denominations" of Independents, Baptists, and Presbyterians.
But I well recollect hearing, from good authority, nearly, or quite, forty years ago, that
an eminent barrister (whom I might now describe as a late learned judge), who was much looked
up to by the dissenters as one of their body, had particularly advised that in all trust-deeds
relating to places of dissenting worship, they should be called "Chapels." I do not know that
he assigned any reason, but I know that the opinion was given, or communicated, to those who
had influence; and, from my own observation, I believe that from about that time we must date
the adoption of the term, which has now been long in general use.

I do not imagine that there was any idea of either assistance or opposition to the Church of
England, in the mind of him who recommended, or those who adopted, the alteration, or that
either of them expected or sought any thing by this measure but to obtain a greater security
for property, or, rather, to avoid some real or imagined insecurity, found or supposed to attach
to the form of description previously in use.

A BARRISTER.

Forlot, Forthlot (No. 20. p. 320.).--A measure of grain used throughout Scotland at present--query
fourthlot. See Jamieson's Etymological Dictionary of the Scottish Language.

    "Firlot; Fyrlot; Furlet.--A corn measure in S., the fourth
    part of a boll.

    "Thay ordainit the boll to mat victual with, to be devidit
    in foure partis, videlicet, foure fyrlottis to contene
    a boll; and that fyrlot not to be maid efter the first
    mesoure, na efter the mesoure now usit, bot in middill mesoure
    betwixt the twa."--Acts Jac. l. 1526. c. 80. edit. 1566.

