

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

AN AIRY NOTHING.--According to a Radical paper "the poor man's tobacco pays 10½d. in the shilling
to taxation, while the rich man's cigar pays only ½d. in the shilling to taxation." This may
be very true, but is the question worth discussing? It is sure to end in smoke!

       *       *       *       *       *

HOW THEY ARE SERVED IN SERVIA.--Among some interesting items, a telegram informed us how "the
Young King presided at a Council of Ministers. The ceremonial is the same as during his father's
time, only two guards stand at the door, and refreshments are handed round at short intervals."
The italics are ours. Rather! What a pleasant Cabinet Council. Why isn't the convivial plan
adopted here? Mr. G., in the chair, would knock the table with the hammer every ten minutes
and call out, "Give your orders, Gents! the Waiter's in the room!" A real Harmonious Meeting.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE FUTURE HOPED BY HAWKINS.

(A Cockney Carol by a cruelly-used Coster-Investor. With apologies to clever Albert Chevalier.)

    ["I desire to express, and I cannot do it too strongly,
    that there is no credit to be attached to the conduct of
    the directors in this particular case. It would be more
    satisfactory to me if directors had a proper sense of their
    responsibility. It is a cruel thing that people should be
    deluded out of their savings by high-sounding names. At
    the same time, there is no criminal law which will punish a
    director who scandalously neglects his duty, though he takes
    his money. I think the law might well be altered."--Mr.
    Justice Hawkins.]

  AIR.--"The Future Mrs. 'Awkins."

  I'm done, my little doner! I'm jest about a goner!
        My savings all U. P.!
  You always said I shouldn't; but resist big names I couldn't,
        No, they fairly nobbled me.
  Now Mister Justice 'AWKINS, 'onest 'ENERY HAWKINS,
        Some Directors' wool does comb.
  So 'elp me bob, I'm crazy. I must ha' bin a daisy!
        Won't it bust our 'umble 'ome!
  (Spoken or sung.) Won't it!
        O LIZER! Sweet LIZER!
  If I die in the Big 'Ouse, I'll only 'ave myself to blame.
        D'y'ear, LIZER? Dear LIZER!
  Fancy me bein' nicked by a 'igh-soundin' name!

  At their sly board-meetin's wot must be their greetin's!
        Oh, they knows wot they're about!
  The public tin they close up, at us turns their nose up--
        Fox and Guinea-pigs--no doubt.
  I likes their style, dear LIZER. Ain't it a surpriser?
        Cop me on the 'op like this!!!
  Sure, I must be dreamin'! In my sleep start screamin'.
        There, don't cry, old gal! Let's kiss!
  (Spoken or sung.) Come now!
        O LIZER! Dear LIZER!
  If I lose yer luv by this I'll only 'ave myself to blame!
        D'y'ear, LIZER? Dear LIZER!
  'Onest 'ENERY 'AWKINS sez it's a dashed shame!

  Hartful as a "bonnet," you depend upon it,
        Mister Fox, with tail sly-curled!
  Jest about the sweetest, neatest, and completest
        Diddle in the wide, wide world.
  Wot sez 'ENERY 'AWKINS, 'onest 'ENERY 'AWKINS?
        Law wants alterin' right away.
  P'raps it may be one day, but were it next Monday,
        Me and you 'twould not repay!
  (Spoken or sighed.) Would it?
        O LIZER! Sweet LIZER!
  Strikes me wot is called the Law is often fuss, and fraud, and fudge!
        But dear LIZER! D'y'ear, LIZER?
  Mister Justice 'AWKINS is a fust-class Judge!

       *       *       *       *       *

QUERY AT SOME FASHIONABLE SEA-SIDE RESORT.--Do the unpleasant odours noticeable at certain
times arise from the fact of the tide being high? If so, is the tide sometimes higher than
usual, as the--ahem!--odours certainly are?

       *       *       *       *       *

SHAKSPEARIAN QUESTION TO A COMPANY.--(To be replied to in the negative.)--"What, are you HANSARD
yet?" (Mer. of Venice, iv., 1.)

       *       *       *       *       *

    SONG FOR AN EMPEROR AFTER A (FRIENDLY) VISIT TO CANOSSA.--
    "Be it ever so humbling, there's no place like Rome!"
Catastrophe averted, and sitting continued. CHILDERS come back to old
scene. Looking on from below Gallery, says it's the quietest Budget
Night he remembers. Usually scene one of seething excitement. One or
more Trades expect taxes affecting them will either go up or go
down. Lobby besieged by anxious representatives. Nothing of the sort
to-night. When SQUIRE of MALWOOD rose to expound his mystery, Benches
not fuller than on ordinary night. Of those present there was no
speculation in the eyes they turned upon the CHANCELLOR standing at
table. The SQUIRE, a great Parliamentary artist, attuned voice and
manner to prevailing tone; avoided anything approaching oratorical
style; plain business statement to make; accomplished it in fine
head-clerkly manner.

An unfailing tradition about Budget Speech is that it shall contain at least one quotation
from the Classics. Mr. G. from year to year observed this custom with splendid effect. LOWE'S
Ex luce lucellum is famous in history; nearly became the epitaph of a Ministry; certainly was
the funeral wail over a carefully-constructed Budget. The SQUIRE to-night felt bound to observe
tradition; but in accordance with his nature did it modestly, adventuring nothing more recondite
than citation of the familiar line that serves to mark WREN'S resting-place in Westminster
Abbey. TOMMY BOWLES took opportunity of remarking that he was "disappointed with the Budget."
This mental attitude, though not quite unexpected, threw fresh gloom over proceedings, and
talk, reduced to whisper, finally died out.

Business done.--Budget brought in.

Tuesday.--The young men behind PRINCE ARTHUR out on the war-path. "Tell you what," says LEGH
of Lyme; "let's have BRYCE's scalp."

"By the Holy Roman Empire, yes!" cried GEORGE CURZON, to whom genial observation was addressed.
"Let's get at him about his snubbing SEFTON, in matter of appointment of Lancashire County
Magistrates. 'Twill serve a double debt to pay. We'll have a lark--'Quelles alouettes!' as
it is written in the French translation of Great Expectations, in the passage reporting conversation
between Pip and Joe Gargery. Moreover than which, we'll put a spoke in business arrangements
of Mr. G., and stave off Home Rule by so long."

"Be careful," said PRINCE ARTHUR; "ticklish subject, you know. They're sure to have HALSBURY
up, and there unquestionably was a degree of monotony about his appointments to Commission
of Peace."

"Oh bother HALSBURY," said CURZON, to whom nothing is sacred. "He's used to it by this time.
You know what happened to the viper who bit the Cappadocian's hide? HALSBURY's all right."

"Boys will be boys," said PRINCE ARTHUR, looking at them regretfully, and thinking of his own
forty-five years. "But perhaps it will be just as well if I clear out;" which he did, and so
missed a lively debate.

That Elderly Young Man, HANBURY, not in best form for such operations. Lacks lightness of touch.
HENRY JAMES also better out of it. Gave performance serious turn, when he declared that in
borough of Bury BRYCE, as soon as he came into office, appointed eight Magistrates, all Liberals.
That sounded very bad; Mr. G. looked serious; some disposition shown on Treasury Bench to draw
apart from BRYCE. All very well to talk about HALSBURY'S goings on; but if this sort of thing
done by Liberal purists, things seem rotten all round. When BRYCE came to reply, he quietly
added to JAMES'S statement of case that, when he went to the Duchy, he found of eighteen Magistrates
sixteen were Unionists, only two Liberals. He had, it is true, appointed six Liberals and two
working-men, whose politics he did not know. Bury Bench, accordingly, now consisted of sixteen
Unionists, eight Liberals, and two working-men. Members wondered if JAMES knew that when he
made his statement? Hoped he didn't. All very well with wig and gown on, and brief in hand;
but House doesn't like this kind of thing in debate.

CURZON'S statement about sad condition of Magisterial Bench at Southport, owing to machinations
of an iniquitous Chancellor of the Duchy, turned out to be not more completely based on fact
than was JAMES'S. But difference of manner in dealing with case, everything. No one took CURZON
seriously, and so no harm done. His explanation of preponderance of Conservative Magistrates
on Lancashire Bench delightful. As good as some touches of DIZZY, of whose younger, lighter
manner, he much reminded old-stagers. It was true, he admitted that, on Lancashire Bench, preponderance
of Magistrates was with Conservatives. (Chancellor of Duchy gave figures as he found them arranged
when he came into office. "Why, it is because the disturbing, mischievous policy of the Right
Hon. Gentleman opposite" (this with indignant sweep of the arm towards Mr. G., feigning sleep
on the Treasury Bench) "has driven into the opposite ranks most of the intelligent, respectable
men, from whom Justices are chosen."

On Division, Vote of Censure on BRYCE negatived by 260 votes; against 186. "I'm not sure,"
said JOKIM, whose views of humour are limited, "that, what I may call the gain of three hours
lost, is worth the price paid; to wit, the opportunity given to BRYCE of disclosing the actual
state of things in Lancashire in the matter of Magisterial Bench, and the consequent doubling
of the Ministerial Majority."

"Well, as I remarked before," said Prince ARTHUR, who had come back for the Division, "Boys
will be boys."

Business done.--Employers' Liability Bill, with aid of Closure, read Second Time.

Thursday.--Pretty to watch Mr. G. struggling with feeling of expediency against temptation
to make a speech. House in Committee on Budget Bill; JOKIM been discoursing at large on its
proposals. Quite lively. SQUIRE of MALWOOD looked on, listening with generous approval, albeit
he was target for JOKIM'S jocularity. This time last year positions reversed. It was he criticising
JOKIM'S Budget. Now it was JOKIM'S turn, and the SQUIRE magnanimously stood the racket. Mr.
G. sat by his side, an attentive listener, evidently strongly drawn to join in the fray. But
it was plainly the SQUIRE'S show, and its direction must be left to him. When there followed
long succession of eminent men discussing Budget, Mr. G. felt that if he remained any longer
he must yield to temptation. Accordingly, withdrew from scene. Returned again an hour later;
still harping on the Budget; the SQUIRE had spoken twice, and there seemed nothing to be done
but to work off whatever remaining speeches had been prepared in Opposition camp.

DORINGTON dragged in case of farmer, and small landowner; conversation turned on Depression
of Agriculture; the WOOLWICH INFANT presented himself to view of sympathetic House as specimen
of what a man of ordinarily healthy habits might be brought to by necessity of paying Income-tax
on the gross rental of house property. A procession of friends of the Agriculturist was closed
by portly figure of CHAPLIN, another effective object-lesson suitable for illustration of lectures
on Agricultural Depression. Mr. G., feeling there was no necessity for speech, had resolutely
withstood the others. CHAPLIN at the table, proved irresistible. To him, CHAPLIN is embodiment
of the heresy of Protection, Bi-metallism, and other emanations of the Evil One. When CHAPLIN
sat down, PREMIER romped in, and, having delivered the inevitable speech, went off home, soothed,
and satisfied.

