THE

WORKING OF STEEL

ANNEALING, HEAT TREATING

AND

HARDENING OF CARBON AND ALLOY STEEL

BY

FRED H. COLVIN

Member American Society of Mechanical Engineers and Franklin Institute; Editor of the American
Machinist, Author of "Machine Shop Arithmetic," "Machine Shop Calculations," "American Machinists'
Hand Book." Considerable of the matter relating to the influence of chemical composition upon
the properties of alloy steels has been rewritten. Furthermore, opportunity has been taken
to include some brief notes on methods of physical testing--whereby the metallurgist judges
of the excellence of his metal in advance of its actual performance in service.

NEW YORK, N. Y.,

  August, 1922.

PREFACE TO FIRST EDITION

The ever increasing uses of steel in all industries and the necessity of securing the best
results with the material used, make a knowledge of the proper working of steel more important
than ever before. For it is not alone the quality of the steel itself or the alloys used in
its composition, but the proper working or treatment of the steel which determines whether
or not the best possible use has been made of it.

With this in mind, the authors have drawn, not only from their own experience but from the
best sources available, information as to the most approved methods of working the various
kinds of steel now in commercial use. These include low carbon, high carbon and alloy steels
of various kinds, and from a variety of industries. The automotive field has done much to develop
not only new alloys but efficient methods of working them and has been drawn on liberally so
as to show the best practice. The practice in government arsenals on steels used in fire arms
is also given.

While not intended as a treatise on steel making or metallurgy in any sense, it has seemed
best to include a little information as to the making of different steels and to give considerable
general information which it is believed will be helpful to those who desire to become familiar
with the most modern methods of working steel.

It is with the hope that this volume, which has endeavored to give due credit to all sources
of information, may prove of value to its readers and through them to the industry at large.

July, 1921.

  THE AUTHORS.

CONTENTS

PREFACE

INTRODUCTION

CHAPTER
    I. STEEL MAKING
   II. COMPOSITION AND PROPERTIES OF STEELS
  III. ALLOYS AND THEIR EFFECT UPON STEEL
   IV. APPLICATION OF LIBERTY ENGINE MATERIALS TO THE AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY
    V. THE FORGING OF STEEL
   VI. ANNEALING
  VII. CASE-HARDENING OR SURFACE-CARBURIZING
 VIII. HEAT TREATMENT OF STEEL
   IX. HARDENING CARBON STEEL FOR TOOLS
    X. HIGH SPEED STEEL
   XI. FURNACES
  XII. PYROMETRY AND PYROMETERS

APPENDIX

INDEX

INTRODUCTION

THE ABC OF IRON AND STEEL

In spite of all that has been written about iron and steel there are many hazy notions in the
minds of many mechanics regarding them. It is not always clear as to just what makes the difference
between iron and steel. We know that high-carbon steel makes a better cutting tool than low-carbon
steel. And yet carbon alone does not make all the difference because we know that cast iron
has more carbon than tool steel and yet it does not make a good cutting tool.

Pig iron or cast iron has from 3 to 5 per cent carbon, while good tool steel rarely has more
than 1-1/4 per cent of carbon, yet one is soft and has a coarse grain, while the other has
a fine grain and can be hardened by heating and dipping in water. Most of the carbon in cast
iron is in a form like graphite, which is almost pure carbon, and is therefore called graphitic
carbon. The resemblance can be seen by noting how cast-iron borings blacken the hands just
as does graphite, while steel turnings do not have the same effect. The difference is due to
the fact that the carbon in steel is not in a graphitic form as well as because it is present
in smaller quantities.

In making steel in the old way the cast iron was melted and the carbon and other impurities
burned out of it, the melted iron being stirred or "puddled," meanwhile. The resulting puddled
iron, also known as wrought iron, is very low in carbon; it is tough, and on being broken appears
to be made up of a bundle of long fibers. Then the iron was heated to redness for several days
in material containing carbon (charcoal) until it absorbed the desired amount, which made it
steel, just as case-hardening iron or steel adds carbon to the outer surface of the metal.
The carbon absorbed by the iron does not take on a graphitic form, however, as in the case
of cast iron, but enters into a chemical compound with the iron, a hard brittle substance called
"cementite" by metallurgists. In fact, the difference between the hard, brittle cementite and
the soft, greasy graphite, accounts for many of the differences between steel and gray cast
iron. Wrought iron, which has very little carbon of any sort in it, is fairly soft and tough.
The properties of wrought iron are the properties of pure iron. As more and more carbon is
introduced into the iron, it combines with the iron and distributes itself throughout the metal
in extremely small crystals of cementite, and this brittle, hard substance lends more and more
hardness and strength to the steel, at the expense of the original toughness of the iron. As
more and more carbon is contained in the alloy--for steel is a true alloy--it begins to appear
as graphite, and its properties counteract the remaining brittle cementite. Eventually, in
gray cast iron, we have properties which would be expected of wrought iron, whose tough metallic
texture was shot through with flakes of slippery, weak graphite.

But to return to the methods of making steel tools in use 100 years ago.

The iron bars, after heating in charcoal, were broken and the carbon content judged by the
fracture. Those which had been in the hottest part of the furnace would have the deepest "case"
and highest carbon. So when the steel was graded, and separated into different piles, a few
bars of like kind were broken into short lengths, melted in fire-clay crucibles at an intense
white heat, cast carefully into iron molds, and the resulting ingot forged into bars under
a crude trip hammer. This melting practice is still in use for crucible steel, and will be
described further on page 4. These are: The Bessemer, Open Hearth, Crucible and Electric Furnace
Methods.

BESSEMER PROCESS

The bessemer process consists of charging molten pig iron into a huge, brick-lined pot called
the bessemer converter, and then in blowing a current of air through holes in the bottom of
the vessel into the liquid metal.

The air blast burns the white hot metal, and the temperature increases. The action is exactly
similar to what happens in a fire box under forced draft. And in both cases some parts of the
material burn easier and more quickly than others. Thus it is that some of the impurities in
the pig iron--including the carbon--burn first, and if the blast is shut off when they are
gone but little of the iron is destroyed. Unfortunately sulphur, one of the most dangerous
impurities, is not expelled in the process.

A bessemer converter is shown in Fig. 1, while Fig. 2 shows the details of its construction.
This shows how the air blast is forced in from one side, through the trunnion, and up through
the metal. Where the steel is finished the converter is tilted, or swung on its trunnions,
the blast turned off, and the steel poured out of the top.

OPEN HEARTH PROCESS

The open hearth furnace consists of a big brick room with a low arched roof. It is charged
with pig iron and scrap through doors in the side walls.

Through openings at one end of the furnace come hot air and gas, which burn in the furnace,
producing sufficient heat to melt the charge and refine it of its impurities. Lime and other
nonmetallic substances are put in the furnace. These melt, forming a "slag" which floats on
the metal and aids materially in the refining operations.

In the bessemer process air is forced through the metal. In the open-hearth furnace the metal
is protected from the flaming gases by a slag covering. Therefore it is reasonable to suppose
that the final product will not contain so much gas.

A diagram of a modern regenerative furnace is shown in Fig. 3. Air and gas enter the hearth
through chambers loosely packed with hot fire brick, burn, and exit to the chimney through
another pair of chambers, giving to them some of the heat which would otherwise waste. The
direction is reversed about every twenty minutes by changing the position of the dampers.

CRUCIBLE STEEL

Crucible steel is still made by melting material in a clay or graphite crucible. Each crucible
contains about 40 lb. of best puddled iron, 40 lb. of clean "mill scrap"--ends trimmed from
tool steel bars--and sufficient rich alloys and charcoal to make the mixture conform to the
desired chemical analysis. The crucible is covered, lowered into a melting hole (Fig. 4) and
entirely surrounded by burning coke. In about four hours the metal is converted into a quiet
white hot liquid. Several crucibles are then pulled out of the hole, and their contents carefully
poured into a metal mold, forming an ingot.

If modern high-speed steel is being made, the ingots are taken out of the molds while still
red hot and placed in a furnace which keeps them at this temperature for some hours, an operation
known as annealing. After slow cooling any surface defects are ground out. Ingots are then
reheated to forging temperature, hammered down into "billets" of about one-quarter size, and
10 to 20 per cent of the length cut from the top. After reheating the billets are hammered
or rolled into bars of desired size. Finished bars are packed with a little charcoal into large
pipes, the ends sealed, and annealed for two or three days. After careful inspection and testing
the steel is ready for market.

THE ELECTRIC PROCESS

The fourth method of manufacturing steel is by the electric furnace. These furnaces are of
various sizes and designs; their size may be sufficient for only 100 lb. of metal--on the other
hand electric furnaces for making armor-plate steel will hold 40 tons of steel. Designs vary
widely according to the electrical principles used. A popular furnace is the 6-ton Heroult
furnace illustrated in Fig. 5.

It is seen to be a squat kettle, made of heavy sheet steel, with a dished bottom and mounted
so it can be tilted forward slightly and completely drained. This kettle is lined with special
fire brick which will withstand most intense heat and resist the cutting action of hot metal
and slag. For a roof, a low dome of fire brick is provided. The shell and lining is pierced
in front for a pouring spout, and on either side by doors, through which the raw material is
charged.

Two or three carbon "electrodes"--18-in. cylinders of specially prepared coke or graphite--extend
through holes in the roof. Electrical connections are made to the upper ends, and a very high
current sent through them. This causes tremendous arcs to form between the lower ends of the
electrodes and the metal below, and these electric arcs are the only source of heat in this
style of furnace.

Electric furnaces can be used to do the same work as is done in crucible furnaces--that is
to say, merely melt a charge of carefully selected pure raw materials. On the other hand it
can be used to produce very high-grade steel from cheap and impure metal, when it acts more
like an open-hearth furnace. It can push the refining even further than the latter furnace
does, for two reasons: first the bath is not swept continuously by a flaming mass of gases;
second, the temperature can be run up higher, enabling the operator to make up slags which
are difficult to melt but very useful to remove small traces of impurities from the metal.

Electric furnaces are widely used, not only in the iron industry, but in brass, copper and
aluminum works. It is a useful melter of cold metal for making castings. It can be used to
convert iron into steel or vice versa. Its most useful sphere, however, is as a refiner of
metal, wherein it takes either cold steel or molten steel from open hearth or bessemer furnaces,
and gives it the finishing touches.

As an illustration of the furnace reactions that take place the following schedule is given,
showing the various stages in the making of a heat of electric steel. The steel to be made
was a high-carbon chrome steel used for balls for ball bearings:

6-TON HEROULT FURNACE

11:50 A.M.--Material charged:
  Boiler plate   5,980 lb.
  Stampings      5,991 lb.
               -----------
                11,971 lb.
  Limestone        700 lb.
12:29 P.M.--Completed charging (current switched on).
 3:20 P.M.--Charge melted down.
  Preliminary analysis under black slag.
    Analysis:
      Carbon      Silicon     Sulphur     Phosphorus  Manganese
       0.06        0.014       0.032        0.009       0.08
           Note the practical elimination of phosphorus.
 3:40 P.M.--The oxidizing (black) slag is now poured and skimmed off as
   clean as possible to prevent rephosphorizing and to permit of adding
   carburizing materials. For this purpose carbon is added in the form
   of powdered coke, ground electrodes or other forms of pure carbon.

The deoxidizing slag is now formed by additions of lime, coke and fluorspar (and for some analyses
ferrosilicon). The slag changes from black to white as the metallic oxides are reduced by these
deoxidizing additions and the reduced metals return to the bath. A good finishing slag is creamy
white, porous and viscous. After the slag becomes white, some time is necessary for the absorption
of the sulphur in the bath by the slag.

The white slag disintegrates to a powder when exposed to the atmosphere and has a pronounced
odor of acetylene when wet.

Further additions of recarburizing material are added as needed to meet the analysis. The further
reactions are shown by the following:

3:40 P.M.--Recarburizing material added:
  130 lb. ground electrodes.
   25 lb. ferromanganese.
    Analysis:
      Carbon   Silicon  Sulphur  Phosphorus  Manganese
       0.76     0.011    0.030     0.008       0.26

To form white slag there was added:

  225 lb. lime.
   75 lb. powdered coke.
   55 lb. fluorspar.
4:50 P.M.--
  Analysis:
      Carbon   Silicon  Sulphur  Phosphorus  Manganese
       0.75     0.014    0.012     0.008       0.28
           Note reduction of the sulphur content.

During the white-slag period the following alloying additions were made:

  500 lb. pig iron.
   80 lb. ferrosilicon.
    9 lb. ferromanganese.
  146 lb. 6 per cent carbon ferrochrome.

The furnace was rotated forward to an inclined position and the charge poured into the ladle,
from which in turn it was poured into molds.

5:40 P.M.--Heat poured.
  Analysis:
      Carbon   Silicon  Sulphur  Phosphorus  Manganese  Chromium
       0.97     0.25     0.014     0.013       0.33       0.70

Ingot weight poured  94.0 per cent Scull                 2.7 per cent Loss                
3.3 per cent

Total current consumption for the heat, 4,700 kW.-hr. or 710 kw.-hr. per ton.

Electric steel, in fact, all fine steel, should be cast in big-end-up molds with refractory
hot tops to prevent any possibility of pipage in the body of the ingot. In the further processing
of the ingot, whether in the rolling mill or forge, special precautions should be taken in
the heating, in the reduction of the metal and in the cooling.

No attempt is made to compare the relative merits of open hearth and electric steel; results
in service, day in and day out, have, however, thoroughly established the desirability of electric
steel. Ten years of experience indicate that electric steel is equal to crucible steel and
superior to open hearth.

The rare purity of the heat derived from the electric are, combined with definite control of
the slag in a neutral atmosphere, explains in part the superiority of electric steel. Commenting
on this recently Dr. H. M. Howe stated that "in the open hearth process you have such atmosphere
and slag conditions as you can get, and in the electric you have such atmosphere and slag conditions
as you desire."

Another type of electric furnace is shown in Figs. 7 and 8. This is the Ludlum furnace, the
illustrations showing a 10-ton size. Figure 7 shows it in normal, or melting position, while
in Fig. 8 it is tilted for pouring. In melting, the electrodes first rest on the charge of
material in the furnace. After the current is turned on they eat their way through, nearly
to the bottom. By this time there is a pool of molten metal beneath the electrode and the charge
is melted from the bottom up so that the roof is not exposed to the high temperature radiating
from the open arc. The electrodes in this furnace are of graphite, 9 in. in diameter and the
current consumed is about 500 kw.-hr. per ton.

One of the things which sometimes confuse regarding the contents of steel is the fact that
the percentage of carbon and the other alloys are usually designated in different ways. Carbon
is usually designated by "points" and the other alloys by percentages. The point is one ten-thousandth
while 1 per cent is one one-hundredth of the whole. In other words, "one hundred point carbon"
is steel containing 1 per cent carbon. Twenty point carbon, such as is used for carbonizing
purposes is 0.20 per cent. Tool steel varies from one hundred to one hundred and fifty points
carbon, or from 1.00 to 1.50 per cent.

Nickel, chromium, etc., are always given in per cent, as a 3.5 per cent nickel, which means
exactly what it says--3-1/2 parts in 100. Bearing this difference in mind all confusion will
be avoided.

CLASSIFICATIONS OF STEEL

Among makers and sellers, carbon tool-steels are classed by "grade" and "temper." The word
grade is qualified by many adjectives of more or less cryptic meaning, but in general they
aim to denote the process and care with which the steel is made.

Temper of a steel refers to the carbon content. This should preferably be noted by "points,"
as just explained; but unfortunately, a 53-point steel (containing 0.53 per cent carbon) may
locally be called something like "No. 3 temper."

A widely used method of classifying steels was originated by the Society of Automotive Engineers.
Each specification is represented by a number of 4 digits, the first figure indicating the
class, the second figure the approximate percentage of predominant alloying element, and the
last two the average carbon content in points. Plain carbon steels are class 1, nickel steels
are class 2, nickel-chromium steels are class 3, chromium steels are class 5, chromium-vanadium
steels are class 6, and silico-manganese steels are class 9. Thus by this system, steel 2340
would be a 3 per cent nickel steel with 0.40 per cent carbon; or steel 1025 would be a 0.25
plain carbon steel.

Steel makers have no uniform classification for the various kinds of steel or steels used for
different purposes. The following list shows the names used by some of the well-known makers:

Air-hardening steel       Chrome-vanadium steel Alloy steel               Circular saw plates
Automobile steel          Coal auger steel Awl steel                 Coal mining pick or cutter
steel Axe and hatchet steel     Coal wedge steel Band knife steel          Cone steel Band
saw steel            Crucible cast steel Butcher saw steel         Crucible machinery steel
Chisel steel              Cutlery steel Chrome-nickel steel       Drawing die steel (Wortle)

Drill rod steel           Patent, bush or hammer steel Facing and welding steel  Pick steel
Fork steel                Pivot steel Gin saw steel             Plane bit steel Granite wedge
steel       Quarry steel Gun barrel steel          Razor steel Hack saw steel            Roll
turning steel High-speed tool steel     Saw steel Hot-rolled sheet steel    Scythe steel Lathe
spindle steel       Shear knife steel Lawn mower knife steel    Silico-manganese steel Machine
knife steel       Spindle steel Magnet steel              Spring steel Mining drill steel 
Tool holder steel Nail die shapes           Vanadium tool steel Nickel-chrome steel       Vanadium-chrome
steel Paper knife steel         Wortle steel

Passing to the tonnage specifications, the following table from Tiemann's excellent pocket
book on "Iron and Steel," will give an approximate idea of the ordinary designations now in use:

                  Approximate
  Grades          carbon range             Common uses

Extra soft         0.08-0.18    Pipe, chain and other welding purposes;
(dead soft)                     case-hardening purposes; rivets; pressing
                                and stamping purposes.
Structural (soft)  0.15-0.25    Structural plates, shapes and bars for
(medium)                        bridges, buildings, cars, locomotives;
                                boiler (flange) steel; drop forgings; bolts.
Medium             0.20-0.35    Structural purposes (ships); shafting;
                                automobile parts; drop forgings.
Medium hard        0.35-0.60    Locomotive and similar large forgings; car
                                axles; rails.
Hard               0.60-0.85    Wrought steel wheels for steam and electric
                                railway service; locomotive tires; rails;
                                tools, such as sledges, hammers, pick points,
                                crowbars, etc.
Spring             0.85-1.05    Automobile and other vehicle springs; tools,
                                such as hot and cold chisels, rock drills
                                and shear blades.
Spring             0.90-1.15    Railway springs; general machine shop tools.

CHAPTER II

COMPOSITION AND PROPERTIES OF STEEL

It is a remarkable fact that one can look through a dozen text books on metallurgy and not
find a definition of the word "steel." Some of them describe the properties of many other irons
and then allow you to guess that everything else is steel. If it was difficult a hundred years
ago to give a good definition of the term when the metal was made by only one or two processes,
it is doubly difficult now, since the introduction of so many new operations and furnaces.

We are in better shape to know what steel is than our forefathers. They went through certain
operations and they got a soft malleable, weldable metal which would not harden; this they
called iron. Certain other operations gave them something which looked very much like iron,
but which would harden after quenching from a red heat. This was steel. Not knowing the essential
difference between the two, they must distinguish by the process of manufacture. To-day we
can make either variety by several methods, and can convert either into the other at will,
back and forth as often as we wish; so we are able to distinguish between the two more logically.

We know that iron is a chemical element--the chemists write it Fe for short, after the Latin
word "ferrum," meaning iron--it is one of those substances which cannot be separated into anything
else but itself. It can be made to join with other elements; for instance, it joins with the
oxygen in the air and forms scale or rust, substances known to the chemist as iron oxide. But
the same metal iron can be recovered from that rust by abstracting the oxygen; having recovered
the iron nothing else can be extracted but iron; iron is elemental.

We can get relatively pure iron from various minerals and artificial substances, and when we
get it we always have a magnetic metal, almost infusible, ductile, fairly strong, tough, something
which can be hardened slightly by hammering but which cannot be hardened by quenching. It has
certain chemical properties, which need not be described, which allow a skilled chemist to
distinguish it without difficulty and unerringly from the other known elements--nearly 100 of them.

Carbon is another chemical element, written C for short, which is widely distributed through
nature. Carbon also readily combines with oxygen and other chemical elements, so that it is
rarely found pure; its most familiar form is soot, although the rarer graphite and most rare
diamond are also forms of quite pure carbon. It can also be readily separated from its multitude
of compounds (vegetation, coal, limestone, petroleum) by the chemist.

With the rise of knowledge of scientific chemistry, it was quickly found that the essential
difference between iron and steel was that the latter was iron plus carbon. Consequently it
is an alloy, and the definition which modern metallurgists accept is this:

"Steel is an iron-carbon alloy containing less than about 2 per cent carbon."

Of course there are other elements contained in commercial steel, and these elements are especially
important in modern "alloy steels," but carbon is the element which changes a soft metal into
one which may be hardened, and strengthened by quenching. In fact, carbon, of itself, without
heat treatment, strengthens iron at the expense of ductility (as noted by the percentage elongation
an 8-in. bar will stretch before breaking). This is shown by the following table:

--------------------------------------------------------------------------
                  |           |            |Elastic |Ultimate|Percentage.
  Class by use.   | Class by  |  Per cent  | limit  |strength|elongation
                  | hardness. |  carbon.   |lb. per |lb. per |in 8 inches.
                  |           |            |sq. in. |sq. in. |
------------------|-----------|------------|--------|--------|------------
Boiler rivet steel|Dead soft  |0.08 to 0.15| 25,000 | 50,000 |     30
Struc. rivet steel|Soft       |0.15 to 0.22| 30,000 | 55,000 |     30
Boiler plate steel|Soft       |0.08 to 0.10| 30,000 | 60,000 |     25
Structural steel  |Medium     |0.18 to 0.30| 35,000 | 65,000 |     25
Machinery steel   |Hard       |0.35 to 0.60| 40,000 | 75,000 |     20
Rail steel        |Hard       |0.35 to 0.55| 40,000 | 75,000 |     15
Spring steel      |High carbon|1.00 to 1.50| 60,000 |125,000 |     10
Tool steel        |High carbon|0.90 to 1.50| 80,000 |150,000 |      5
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

Just why a soft material like carbon (graphite), when added to another soft material like iron,
should make the iron harder, has been quite a mystery, and one which has caused a tremendous
amount of study. The mutual interactions of these two elements in various proportions and at
various temperatures will be discussed at greater length later, especially in Chap. VIII, p.
105. But we may anticipate by saying that some of the iron unites with all the carbon to form
a new substance, very hard, a carbide which has been called "cementite." The compound always
contains iron and carbon in the proportions of three atoms of iron to one atom of carbon; chemists
note this fact in shorthand by the symbol Fe3C (a definite chemical compound of three atoms
of iron to one of carbon). Many of the properties of steel, as they vary with carbon content,
can be linked up with the increasing amount of this hard carbide cementite, distributed in
very fine particles through the softer iron.

SULPHUR is another element (symbol S) which is always found in steel in small quantities. Some
sulphur is contained in the ore from which the iron is smelted; more sulphur is introduced
by the coke and fuel used. Sulphur is very difficult to get rid of in steel making; in fact
the resulting metal usually contains a little more than the raw materials used. Only the electric
furnace is able to produce the necessary heat and slags required to eliminate sulphur, and
as a matter of fact the sulphur does not go until several other impurities have been eliminated.
Consequently, an electric steel with extremely low sulphur (0.02 per cent) is by that same
token a well-made metal.

Sulphur is of most trouble to rolling and forging operations when conducted at a red heat.
It makes steel tender and brittle at that temperature--a condition known to the workmen as
"red-short." It seems to have little or no effect upon the physical properties of cold steel--at
least as revealed by the ordinary testing machines--consequently many specifications do not
set any limit on sulphur, resting on the idea that if sulphur is low enough not to cause trouble
to the manufacturer during rolling, it will not cause the user any trouble.

Tool steel and other fine steels should be very low in sulphur, preferably not higher than
0.03 per cent. Higher sulphur steels (0.06 per cent, and even up to 0.10 per cent) have given
very good service for machine parts, but in general a high sulphur steel is a suspicious steel.
Screw stock is purposely made with up to 0.12 per cent sulphur and a like amount of phosphorus
so it will cut freely.

Manganese counteracts the detrimental effect of sulphur when present in the steel to an amount
at least five times the sulphur content.

PHOSPHORUS is an element (symbol P) which enters the metal from the ore. It remains in the
steel when made by the so-called acid process, but it can be easily eliminated down to 0.06
per cent in the basic process. In fact the discovery of the basic process was necessary before
the huge iron deposits of Belgium and the Franco-German border could be used. These ores contain
several per cent phosphorus, and made a very brittle steel ("cold short") until basic furnaces
were used. Basic furnaces allow the formation of a slag high in lime, which takes practically
all the phosphorus out of the metal. Not only is the resulting metal usable, but the slag makes
a very excellent fertilizer, and is in good demand.

SILICON is a very widespread element (symbol Si), being an essential constituent of nearly
all the rocks of the earth. It is similar to carbon in many of its chemical properties; for
instance it burns very readily in oxygen, and consequently native silicon is unknown--it is
always found in combination with one or more other elements. When it bums, each atom of silicon
unites with two atoms of oxygen to form a compound known to chemists as silica (SiO2), and
to the small boy as "sand" and "agate."

Iron ore (an oxide of iron) contains more or less sand and dirt mixed in it when it is mined,
and not only the iron oxide but also some of the silicon oxide is robbed of its oxygen by the
smelting process. Pig iron--the product of the blast furnace--therefore contains from 1 to
3 per cent of silicon, and some silicon remains in the metal after it has been purified and
converted into steel.

However, silicon, as noted above, burns very readily in oxygen, and this property is of good
use in steel making. At the end of the steel-making process the metal contains more or less
oxygen, which must be removed. This is sometimes done (especially in the so-called acid process)
by adding a small amount of silicon to the hot metal just before it leaves the furnace, and
stirring it in. It thereupon abstracts oxygen from the metal wherever it finds it, changing
to silica (SiO2) which rises and floats on the surface of the cleaned metal. Most of the silicon
remaining in the metal is an excess over that which is required to remove the dangerous oxygen,
and the final analysis of many steels show enough silicon (from 0.20 to 0.40) to make sure
that this step in the manufacture has been properly done.

MANGANESE is a metal much like iron. Its chemical symbol is Mn. It is somewhat more active
than iron in many chemical changes--notably it has what is apparently a stronger attraction
for oxygen and sulphur than has iron. Therefore the metal is used (especially in the so-called
basic process) to free the molten steel of oxygen, acting in a manner similar to silicon, as
explained above. The compound of manganese and oxygen is readily eliminated from the metal.
Sufficient excess of elemental manganese should remain so that the purchaser may be sure that
the iron has been properly "deoxidized," and to render harmless the traces of sulphur present.
No damage is done by the presence of a little manganese in steel, quite the reverse. Consequently
it is common to find steels containing from 0.3 to 1.5 per cent.

ALLOYING ELEMENTS.--Commercial steels of even the simplest types are therefore primarily alloys
of iron and carbon. Impurities and their "remedies" are always present: sulphur, phosphorus,
silicon and manganese--to say nothing of oxygen, nitrogen and carbon oxide gases, about which
we know very little. It has been found that other metals, if added to well-made steel, produce
definite improvements in certain directions, and these "alloy steels" have found much use in
the last ten years. Alloy steels, in addition to the above-mentioned elements, may commonly
contain one or more of the following, in varying amounts: Nickel (Ni), Chromium (Cr), Vanadium
(Va), Tungsten (W), Molybdenum (Mo). These steels will be discussed at more length in Chapters
III and IV.

PROPERTIES OF STEEL

Steels are known by certain tests. Early tests were more or less crude, and depended upon the
ability of the workman to judge the "grain" exhibited by a freshly broken piece of steel. The
cold-bend test was also very useful--a small bar was bent flat upon itself, and the stretched
fibers examined for any sign of break. Harder stiff steels were supported at the ends and the
amount of central load they would support before fracture, or the amount of permanent set they
would acquire at a given load noted. Files were also used to test the hardness of very hard steel.

These tests are still used to a considerable extent, especially in works where the progress
of an operation can be kept under close watch in this way, the product being periodically examined
by more precise methods. The chief furnace-man, or "melter," in a steel plant, judges the course
of the refining process by casting small test ingots from time to time, breaking them and examining
the fracture. Cutlery manufacturers use the bend test to judge the temper of blades. File testing
of case-hardened parts is very common.

However there is need of standardized methods which depend less upon the individual skill of
the operator, and which will yield results comparable to others made by different men at different
places and on different steels. Hence has grown up the art of testing materials.

TENSILE PROPERTIES

Strength of a metal is usually expressed in the number of pounds a 1-in. bar will support just
before breaking, a term called the "ultimate strength." It has been found that the shape of
the test bar and its method of loading has some effect upon the results, so it is now usual
to turn a rod 5-1/2 in. long down to 0.505 in. in diameter for a central length of 2-3/8 in.,
ending the turn with 1/2-in. fillets. The area of the bar equals 0.2 sq. in., so the load it
bears at rupture multiplied by 5 will represent the "ultimate strength" in pounds per square inch.

Such a test bar is stretched apart in a machine like that shown in Fig. 9. The upper end of
the bar is held in wedged jaws by the top cross-head, and the lower end grasped by the movable
head. The latter is moved up and down by three long screws, driven at the same speed, which
pass through threads cut in the corners of the cross-head. When the test piece is fixed in
position the motor which drives the machine is given a few turns, which by proper gearing pulls
the cross-head down with a certain pull. This pull is transmitted to the upper cross-head by
the test bar, and can be weighed on the scale arm, acting through a system of links and levers.

Thus the load may be increased as rapidly as desirable, always kept balanced by the weighing
mechanism, and the load at fracture may be read directly from the scale beam.

This same test piece may give other information. If light punch marks are made, 2 in. apart,
before the test is begun, the broken ends may be clamped together, and the distance between
punch marks measured. If it now measures 3 in. the stretch has been 1 in. in 2, or 50 per cent.
This figure is known as the elongation at fracture, or briefly, the "elongation," and is generally
taken to be a measure of ductility.

When steel shows any elongation, it also contracts in area at the same time. Often this contraction
is sharply localized at the fracture; the piece is said to "neck." A figure for contraction
in area is also of much interest as an indication of toughness; the diameter at fracture is
measured, a corresponding area taken out from a table of circles, subtracted from the original
area (0.200 sq. in.) and the difference divided by 0.2 to get the percentage contraction.

Quite often it is desired to discover the elastic limit of the steel, in fact this is of more
use to the designer than the ultimate strength. The elastic limit is usually very close to
the load where the metal takes on a permanent set. That is to say, if a delicate caliper ("extensometer,"
so called) be fixed to the side of the test specimen, it would show the piece to be somewhat
longer under load than when free. Furthermore, if the load had not yet reached the yield point,
and were released at any time, the piece would return to its original length. However, if the
load had been excessive, and then relieved, the extensometer would no longer read exactly 2.0
in., but something more.

Soft steels "give" very quickly at the yield point. In fact, if the testing machine is running
slowly, it takes some time for the lower head to catch up with the stretching steel. Consequently
at the yield point, the top head is suddenly but only temporarily relieved of load, and the
scale beam drops. In commercial practice, the yield point is therefore determined by the "drop
of the beam." For more precise work the calipers are read at intervals of 500 or 1,000 lb.
load, and a curve plotted from these results, a curve which runs straight up to the elastic
limit, but there bends off.

A tensile test therefore gives four properties of great usefulness: The yield point, the ultimate
strength, the elongation and the contraction. Compression tests are seldom made, since the
action of metal in compression and in tension is closely allied, and the designer is usually
satisfied with the latter.

IMPACT TESTS

