"We have now to settle definitely the exact hour at which the Great Experiment is to be made.
So far as science and mechanism go, if the preparations are complete, all hours are the same.
But as we have to deal with preparations made by a woman of extraordinarily subtle mind, and
who had full belief in magic and had a cryptic meaning in everything, we should place ourselves
in her position before deciding. It is now manifest that the sunset has an important place
in the arrangements.  As those suns, cut so mathematically by the edge of the sarcophagus,
were arranged of full design, we must take our cue from this.  Again, we find all along that
the number seven has had an important bearing on every phase of the Queen's thought and reasoning
and action.  The logical result is that the seventh hour after sunset was the time fixed on.
This is borne out by the fact that on each of the occasions when action was taken in my house,
this was the time chosen.  As the sun sets tonight in Cornwall at eight, our hour is to be
three in the morning!"  He spoke in a matter-of-fact way, though with great gravity; but there
was nothing of mystery in his word or manner.  Still, we were all impressed to a remarkable
degree.  I could see this in the other men by the pallor that came on some of their faces,
and by the stillness and unquestioning silence with which the decision was received.  The only
one who remained in any way at ease was Margaret, who had lapsed into one of her moods of abstraction,
but who seemed to wake up to a note of gladness.  Her father, who was watching her intently,
smiled; her mood was to him a direct confirmation of his theory.

For myself I was almost overcome.  The definite fixing of the hour seemed like the voice of
Doom.  When I think of it now, I can realise how a condemned man feels at his sentence, or
at the sounding of the last hour he is to hear.

There could be no going back now!  We were in the hands of God!

The hands of God...!  And yet...!  What other forces were arrayed? ... What would become of
us all, poor atoms of earthly dust whirled in the wind which cometh whence and goeth whither
no man may know.  It was not for myself... Margaret...!

I was recalled by Mr. Trelawny's firm voice:

"Now we shall see to the lamps and finish our preparations." Accordingly we set to work, and
under his supervision made ready the Egyptian lamps, seeing that they were well filled with
the cedar oil, and that the wicks were adjusted and in good order.  We lighted and tested them
one by one, and left them ready so that they would light at once and evenly.  When this was
done we had a general look round; and fixed all in readiness for our work at night.

All this had taken time, and we were I think all surprised when as we emerged from the cave
we heard the great clock in the hall chime four.

We had a late lunch, a thing possible without trouble in the present state of our commissariat
arrangements.  After it, by Mr. Trelawny's advice, we separated; each to prepare in our own
way for the strain of the coming night.  Margaret looked pale and somewhat overwrought, so
I advised her to lie down and try to sleep.  She promised that she would. The abstraction which
had been upon her fitfully all day lifted for the time; with all her old sweetness and loving
delicacy she kissed me good-bye for the present!  With the sense of happiness which this gave
me I went out for a walk on the cliffs.  I did not want to think; and I had an instinctive
feeling that fresh air and God's sunlight, and the myriad beauties of the works of His hand
would be the best preparation of fortitude for what was to come.

When I got back, all the party were assembling for a late tea.  Coming fresh from the exhilaration
of nature, it struck me as almost comic that we, who were nearing the end of so strange--almost
monstrous--an undertaking, should be yet bound by the needs and habits of our lives.

All the men of the party were grave; the time of seclusion, even if it had given them rest,
had also given opportunity for thought.  Margaret was bright, almost buoyant; but I missed
about her something of her usual spontaneity.  Towards myself there was a shadowy air of reserve,
which brought back something of my suspicion.  When tea was over, she went out of the room;
but returned in a minute with the roll of drawing which she had taken with her earlier in the
day.  Coming close to Mr. Trelawny, she said:

"Father, I have been carefully considering what you said today about the hidden meaning of
those suns and hearts and 'Ka's', and I have been examining the drawings again."

"And with what result, my child?" asked Mr. Trelawny eagerly.

"There is another reading possible!"

"And that?"  His voice was now tremulous with anxiety.  Margaret spoke with a strange ring
in her voice; a ring that cannot be, unless there is the consciousness of truth behind it:

"It means that at the sunset the 'Ka' is to enter the 'Ab'; and it is only at the sunrise that
it will leave it!"

"Go on!" said her father hoarsely.

"It means that for this night the Queen's Double, which is otherwise free, will remain in her
heart, which is mortal and cannot leave its prison-place in the mummy-shrouding.  It means
that when the sun has dropped into the sea, Queen Tera will cease to exist as a conscious power,
till sunrise; unless the Great Experiment can recall her to waking life.  It means that there
will be nothing whatever for you or others to fear from her in such way as we have all cause
to remember. Whatever change may come from the working of the Great Experiment, there can come
none from the poor, helpless, dead woman who has waited all those centuries for this night;
who has given up to the coming hour all the freedom of eternity, won in the old way, in hope
of a new life in a new world such as she longed for...!"  She stopped suddenly.  As she had
gone on speaking there had come with her words a strange pathetic, almost pleading, tone which
touched me to the quick.  As she stopped, I could see, before she turned away her head, that
her eyes were full of tears.

For once the heart of her father did not respond to her feeling.  He looked exultant, but with
a grim masterfulness which reminded me of the set look of his stern face as he had lain in
the trance.  He did not offer any consolation to his daughter in her sympathetic pain.  He
only said:

"We may test the accuracy of your surmise, and of her feeling, when the time comes!" Having
said so, he went up the stone stairway and into his own room.  Margaret's face had a troubled
look as she gazed after him.

Strangely enough her trouble did not as usual touch me to the quick.

When Mr. Trelawny had gone, silence reigned.  I do not think that any of us wanted to talk.
Presently Margaret went to her room, and I went out on the terrace over the sea.  The fresh
air and the beauty of all before helped to restore the good spirits which I had known earlier
in the day. Presently I felt myself actually rejoicing in the belief that the danger which
I had feared from the Queen's violence on the coming night was obviated.  I believed in Margaret's
belief so thoroughly that it did not occur to me to dispute her reasoning.  In a lofty frame
of mind, and with less anxiety than I had felt for days, I went to my room and lay down on
the sofa.

I was awaked by Corbeck calling to me, hurriedly:

"Come down to the cave as quickly as you can.  Mr. Trelawny wants to see us all there at once.
Hurry!"

I jumped up and ran down to the cave.  All were there except Margaret, who came immediately
after me carrying Silvio in her arms.  When the cat saw his old enemy he struggled to get down;
but Margaret held him fast and soothed him.  I looked at my watch.  It was close to eight.

When Margaret was with us her father said directly, with a quiet insistence which was new to me:

"You believe, Margaret, that Queen Tera has voluntarily undertaken to give up her freedom for
this night?  To become a mummy and nothing more, till the Experiment has been completed?  To
be content that she shall be powerless under all and any circumstances until after all is over
and the act of resurrection has been accomplished, or the effort has failed?"  After a pause
Margaret answered in a low voice:

"Yes!"

In the pause her whole being, appearance, expression, voice, manner had changed. Even Silvio
noticed it, and with a violent effort wriggled away from her arms; she did not seem to notice
the act.  I expected that the cat, when he had achieved his freedom, would have attacked the
mummy; but on this occasion he did not.  He seemed too cowed to approach it. He shrunk away,
and with a piteous "miaou" came over and rubbed himself against my ankles.  I took him up in
my arms, and he nestled there content.  Mr. Trelawny spoke again:

"You are sure of what you say!  You believe it with all your soul?" Margaret's face had lost
the abstracted look; it now seemed illuminated with the devotion of one to whom is given to
speak of great things. She answered in a voice which, though quiet, vibrated with conviction:

"I know it!  My knowledge is beyond belief!"  Mr. Trelawny spoke again:

"Then you are so sure, that were you Queen Tera herself, you would be willing to prove it in
any way that I might suggest?"

"Yes, any way!" the answer rang out fearlessly.  He spoke again, in a voice in which was no
note of doubt:

"Even in the abandonment of your Familiar to death--to annihilation."

She paused, and I could see that she suffered--suffered horribly. There was in her eyes a hunted
look, which no man can, unmoved, see in the eyes of his beloved.  I was about to interrupt,
when her father's eyes, glancing round with a fierce determination, met mine.  I stood silent,
almost spellbound; so also the other men. Something was going on before us which we did not
understand!

With a few long strides Mr. Trelawny went to the west side of the cave and tore back the shutter
which obscured the window.  The cool air blew in, and the sunlight streamed over them both,
for Margaret was now by his side.  He pointed to where the sun was sinking into the sea in
a halo of golden fire, and his face was as set as flint.  In a voice whose absolute uncompromising
hardness I shall hear in my ears at times till my dying day, he said:

"Choose!  Speak!  When the sun has dipped below the sea, it will be too late!"  The glory of
the dying sun seemed to light up Margaret's face, till it shone as if lit from within by a
noble light, as she answered:

"Even that!"

Then stepping over to where the mummy cat stood on the little table, she placed her hand on
it.  She had now left the sunlight, and the shadows looked dark and deep over her.  In a clear
voice she said:

"Were I Tera, I would say 'Take all I have!  This night is for the Gods alone!'"

As she spoke the sun dipped, and the cold shadow suddenly fell on us. We all stood still for
a while.  Silvio jumped from my arms and ran over to his mistress, rearing himself up against
her dress as if asking to be lifted.  He took no notice whatever of the mummy now.

Margaret was glorious with all her wonted sweetness as she said sadly:

"The sun is down, Father!  Shall any of us see it again?  The night of nights is come!"

Chapter XIX

The Great Experiment

If any evidence had been wanted of how absolutely one and all of us had come to believe in
the spiritual existence of the Egyptian Queen, it would have been found in the change which
in a few minutes had been effected in us by the statement of voluntary negation made, we all
believed, through Margaret.  Despite the coming of the fearful ordeal, the sense of which it
was impossible to forget, we looked and acted as though a great relief had come to us.  We
had indeed lived in such a state of terrorism during the days when Mr. Trelawny was lying in
a trance that the feeling had bitten deeply into us.  No one knows till he has experienced
it, what it is to be in constant dread of some unknown danger which may come at any time and
in any form.

The change was manifested in different ways, according to each nature. Margaret was sad.  Doctor
Winchester was in high spirits, and keenly observant; the process of thought which had served
as an antidote to fear, being now relieved from this duty, added to his intellectual enthusiasm.
Mr. Corbeck seemed to be in a retrospective rather than a speculative mood.  I was myself rather
inclined to be gay; the relief from certain anxiety regarding Margaret was sufficient for me
for the time.

As to Mr. Trelawny he seemed less changed than any.  Perhaps this was only natural, as he had
had in his mind the intention for so many years of doing that in which we were tonight engaged,
that any event connected with it could only seem to him as an episode, a step to the end. 
His was that commanding nature which looks so to the end of an undertaking that all else is
of secondary importance.  Even now, though his terrible sternness relaxed under the relief
from the strain, he never flagged nor faltered for a moment in his purpose.  He asked us men
to come with him; and going to the hall we presently managed to lower into the cave an oak
table, fairly long and not too wide, which stood against the wall in the hall.  This we placed
under the strong cluster of electric lights in the middle of the cave.  Margaret looked on
for a while; then all at once her face blanched, and in an agitated voice she said:

"What are you going to do, Father?"

"To unroll the mummy of the cat!  Queen Tera will not need her Familiar tonight.  If she should
want him, it might be dangerous to us; so we shall make him safe.  You are not alarmed, dear?"

"Oh no!" she answered quickly.  "But I was thinking of my Silvio, and how I should feel if
he had been the mummy that was to be unswathed!"

Mr. Trelawny got knives and scissors ready, and placed the cat on the table.  It was a grim
beginning to our work; and it made my heart sink when I thought of what might happen in that
lonely house in the mid-gloom of the night.  The sense of loneliness and isolation from the
world was increased by the moaning of the wind which had now risen ominously, and by the beating
of waves on the rocks below.  But we had too grave a task before us to be swayed by external
manifestations: the unrolling of the mummy began.

There was an incredible number of bandages; and the tearing sound--they being stuck fast to
each other by bitumen and gums and spices--and the little cloud of red pungent dust that arose,
pressed on the senses of all of us.  As the last wrappings came away, we saw the animal seated
before us.  He was all hunkered up; his hair and teeth and claws were complete.  The eyes were
closed, but the eyelids had not the fierce look which I expected.  The whiskers had been pressed
down on the side of the face by the bandaging; but when the pressure was taken away they stood
out, just as they would have done in life.  He was a magnificent creature, a tiger-cat of great
size.  But as we looked at him, our first glance of admiration changed to one of fear, and
a shudder ran through each one of us; for here was a confirmation of the fears which we had
endured.

His mouth and his claws were smeared with the dry, red stains of recent blood!

Doctor Winchester was the first to recover; blood in itself had small disturbing quality for
him.  He had taken out his magnifying-glass and was examining the stains on the cat's mouth.
Mr. Trelawny breathed loudly, as though a strain had been taken from him.

"It is as I expected," he said.  "This promises well for what is to follow."

By this time Doctor Winchester was looking at the red stained paws. "As I expected!" he said.
"He has seven claws, too!"  Opening his pocket-book, he took out the piece of blotting-paper
marked by Silvio's claws, on which was also marked in pencil a diagram of the cuts made on
Mr. Trelawny's wrist.  He placed the paper under the mummy cat's paw. The marks fitted exactly.

When we had carefully examined the cat, finding, however, nothing strange about it but its
wonderful preservation, Mr. Trelawny lifted it from the table.  Margaret started forward, crying
out:

"Take care, Father!  Take care!  He may injure you!"

"Not now, my dear!" he answered as he moved towards the stairway.  Her face fell. "Where are
you going?" she asked in a faint voice.

"To the kitchen," he answered.  "Fire will take away all danger for the future; even an astral
body cannot materialise from ashes!"  He signed to us to follow him.  Margaret turned away
with a sob.  I went to her; but she motioned me back and whispered:

"No, no!  Go with the others.  Father may want you.  Oh! it seems like murder!  The poor Queen's
pet...!"  The tears were dropping from under the fingers that covered her eyes.

In the kitchen was a fire of wood ready laid.  To this Mr. Trelawny applied a match; in a few
seconds the kindling had caught and the flames leaped.  When the fire was solidly ablaze, he
threw the body of the cat into it.  For a few seconds it lay a dark mass amidst the flames,
and the room was rank with the smell of burning hair.  Then the dry body caught fire too. 
The inflammable substances used in embalming became new fuel, and the flames roared.  A few
minutes of fierce conflagration; and then we breathed freely.  Queen Tera's Familiar was no more!

When we went back to the cave we found Margaret sitting in the dark. She had switched off the
electric light, and only a faint glow of the evening light came through the narrow openings.
Her father went quickly over to her and put his arms round her in a loving protective way.
She laid her head on his shoulder for a minute and seemed comforted. Presently she called to me:

"Malcolm, turn up the light!"  I carried out her orders, and could see that, though she had
been crying, her eyes were now dry.  Her father saw it too and looked glad.  He said to us
in a grave tone:

"Now we had better prepare for our great work.  It will not do to leave anything to the last!"
Margaret must have had a suspicion of what was coming, for it was with a sinking voice that
she asked:

"What are you going to do now?"  Mr. Trelawny too must have had a suspicion of her feelings,
for he answered in a low tone:

"To unroll the mummy of Queen Tera!"  She came close to him and said pleadingly in a whisper:

"Father, you are not going to unswathe her!  All you men...!  And in the glare of light!"

"But why not, my dear?"

"Just think, Father, a woman!  All alone!  In such a way!  In such a place!  Oh! it's cruel,
cruel!"  She was manifestly much overcome.  Her cheeks were flaming red, and her eyes were
full of indignant tears. Her father saw her distress; and, sympathising with it, began to comfort
her.  I was moving off; but he signed to me to stay.  I took it that after the usual manner
of men he wanted help on such an occasion, and man-like wished to throw on someone else the
task of dealing with a woman in indignant distress.  However, he began to appeal first to her
reason:

"Not a woman, dear; a mummy!  She has been dead nearly five thousand years!"

"What does that matter?  Sex is not a matter of years!  A woman is a woman, if she had been
dead five thousand centuries!  And you expect her to arise out of that long sleep!  It could
not be real death, if she is to rise out of it!  You have led me to believe that she will come
alive when the Coffer is opened!"

"I did, my dear; and I believe it!  But if it isn't death that has been the matter with her
all these years, it is something uncommonly like it. Then again, just think; it was men who
embalmed her.  They didn't have women's rights or lady doctors in ancient Egypt, my dear! 
And besides," he went on more freely, seeing that she was accepting his argument, if not yielding
to it, "we men are accustomed to such things. Corbeck and I have unrolled a hundred mummies;
and there were as many women as men amongst them.  Doctor Winchester in his work has had to
deal with women as well of men, till custom has made him think nothing of sex.  Even Ross has
in his work as a barrister..."  He stopped suddenly.

"You were going to help too!" she said to me, with an indignant look.

I said nothing; I thought silence was best.  Mr. Trelawny went on hurriedly; I could see that
he was glad of interruption, for the part of his argument concerning a barrister's work was
becoming decidedly weak:

"My child, you will be with us yourself.  Would we do anything which would hurt or offend you?
Come now! be reasonable!  We are not at a pleasure party.  We are all grave men, entering gravely
on an experiment which may unfold the wisdom of old times, and enlarge human knowledge indefinitely;
which may put the minds of men on new tracks of thought and research.  An experiment," as he
went on his voice deepened, "which may be fraught with death to any one of us--to us all! We
know from what has been, that there are, or may be, vast and unknown dangers ahead of us, of
which none in the house today may ever see the end.  Take it, my child, that we are not acting
lightly; but with all the gravity of deeply earnest men!  Besides, my dear, whatever feelings
you or any of us may have on the subject, it is necessary for the success of the experiment
to unswathe her.  I think that under any circumstances it would be necessary to remove the
wrappings before she became again a live human being instead of a spiritualised corpse with
an astral body. Were her original intention carried out, and did she come to new life within
her mummy wrappings, it might be to exchange a coffin for a grave!  She would die the death
of the buried alive!  But now, when she has voluntarily abandoned for the time her astral power,
there can be no doubt on the subject."

Margaret's face cleared.  "All right, Father!" she said as she kissed him.  "But oh! it seems
a horrible indignity to a Queen, and a woman."

I was moving away to the staircase when she called me:

"Where are you going?"  I came back and took her hand and stroked it as I answered:

"I shall come back when the unrolling is over!"  She looked at me long, and a faint suggestion
of a smile came over her face as she said:

"Perhaps you had better stay, too!  It may be useful to you in your work as a barrister!" 
She smiled out as she met my eyes:  but in an instant she changed.  Her face grew grave, and
deadly white.  In a far away voice she said:

"Father is right!  It is a terrible occasion; we need all to be serious over it.  But all the
same--nay, for that very reason you had better stay, Malcolm!  You may be glad, later on, that
you were present tonight!"

My heart sank down, down, at her words; but I thought it better to say nothing.  Fear was stalking
openly enough amongst us already!

By this time Mr. Trelawny, assisted by Mr. Corbeck and Doctor Winchester, had raised the lid
of the ironstone sarcophagus which contained the mummy of the Queen.  It was a large one; but
it was none too big.  The mummy was both long and broad and high; and was of such weight that
it was no easy task, even for the four of us, to lift it out.  Under Mr. Trelawny's direction
we laid it out on the table prepared for it.

