Sir ARTHUR CONAN DOYLE, on the strength of Danger! and Other Stories (MURRAY), may claim a
place among the prophets who were not accepted by their own country. "Danger!"--written some
eighteen months before the outbreak of war--foretells the horrors of the unrestricted use of
the submarine. Possibly now that we have been taught by painful experience all we want to know
about U-boat warfare, excitement in this tale is rather to seek, but it remains a most successful
prophecy. In the last story of the book we have the author in his very worst form. "Three of
Them" is a study of children, and the only excuse I can find for it is that it must be intended
as a sop to the sentimentalists. Of the others my first vote goes to "The Surgeon of Gaster
Fell," and my second to "The Prisoner's' Defence;" but if you are susceptible to Sir ARTHUR'S
sense of fun I can also recommend "The Fall of Lord Barrymore" and "One Crowded Hour." Not
a great collection, but just good enough.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mr. ROMER WILSON has devoted the nearly three hundred pages of his Martin Schuler (METHUEN)
to describing what it feels like to be a genius, and, speaking from a very limited knowledge
of this class, I should say that he had mapped the mind of a genius of a certain sort very
well. His estimate of the creative artist's anguish of emptiness rings true, and will, perhaps
surprise the people who think that his lot, like a policeman's, is a very happy one. His Martin,
who struck me as a very unpleasant young man, was a composer who meant to achieve immortality,
but turned down the broad way of musical comedy and acquired money instead. Just in time he
repented and wrote a grand opera, and then Mr. WILSON cut short his career in a fashion that
seemed to me regrettably hackneyed, which was the only reason why I shared the other characters'
sorrow. Why so many people, all rather nasty people too, came to devote themselves to Martin
I could not discover, although I had the publisher's word for it that he was "attractive";
but perhaps his genius accounted for it. Probably it is my duty to declare here that Martin
and his friends were almost all made in Germany before the War, but as they are exceptionally
disagreeable and quite unlikely to inspire anyone with an unjust tenderness for their nation
I have no hesitation in recommending the book as a clever study of temperament and a just picture
of a part of the German musical world as it was when one last knew anything about it.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is all a matter of taste, of course, but personally I don't envy Mr. J.G. LEGGE his self-imposed
task of convicting the Hun out of his own mouth of--well, of being a Hun. Germans they were
and Germans they remain, and the author goes to great lengths, even to the length of 572 pages,
to show that their peculiar qualities date back at least as far as 1813. His Rhyme and Revolution
in Germany (CONSTABLE) is not so much a history of the scrambling undignified revolutionary
movements culminating in the year 1848, as a collection of contemporary comment thereon, in
prose and verse. The prose is generally bad; the verse is generally very bad; and one turns
with relief to the author's connecting links, wishing only at times that he would not worry
about proving his point quite so thoroughly. The bombast and the bullying, the self-pity and
the cruelty, and, most of all, the instinctive claim, typical of Germany to-day, to prescribe
one law for themselves but something quite different for the rest of the world, run through
all these quotations, even the earliest.