VOL. I.            April, 1905            No. 4.

JOURNAL OF THE UNITED STATES INFANTRY ASSOCIATION

PUBLISHED QUARTERLY BY THE UNITED STATES INFANTRY ASSOCIATION 75 CENTS PER COPY; $3.00 PER YEAR

MAJOR WM. P. EVANS, A.A.G., Editor

1800 F STREET NORTHWEST, WASHINGTON, D.C.

Entered July 5, 1904, at the Post Office at Washington, D.C., as second-class matter, under
act of March 3, 1879. Copyright, 1904, by the U.S. Infantry Association. All rights reserved.

THE UNITED STATES INFANTRY ASSOCIATION

OFFICERS

President. Major-General J.C. BATES, U.S. Army.

Vice-President. Lieutenant-Colonel JAS. S. PETTIT, U.S. Infantry. Assistant Adjutant-General.

Secretary and Treasurer. Captain BENJAMIN ALVORD, General Staff.

Executive Council. Lieutenant-Colonel JAMES S. PETTIT, U.S. Infantry, A.A.G. Major WM. P. EVANS,
U.S. Infantry, A.A.G. Major JOHN S. MALLORY, 12th Infantry, G.S. Captain BENJAMIN ALVORD, 25th
Infantry, G.S. Captain H.C. HALE, 15th Infantry, G.S. Captain C.H. MUIR, 2d Infantry, G.S.
Captain FRANK MCINTYRE, 19th Infantry, G.S. Captain D.E. NOLAN, 30th Infantry, G.S.

THE DEFENCE OF DUFFER'S DRIFT.

BY CAPTAIN E.D. SWINTON, D.S.O., R.E.--(BACKSIGHT FORETHOUGHT.)

BY PERMISSION.

PROLOGUE.

Upon an evening after a long and tiring trek, I arrived at Dreamdorp. The local atmosphere,
combined with a heavy meal, are responsible for the following nightmare, consisting of a series
of dreams. To make the sequence of the whole intelligible, it is necessary to explain that,
though the scene of each vision was the same, yet by some curious mental process I had no recollection
of the place whatsoever. In each dream the locality was totally new to me, and I had an entirely
fresh detachment. Thus I had not the great advantage of working over familiar ground. One thing,
and one only, was carried on from dream to dream, and that was the vivid recollection of the
general lessons previously learnt. These finally produced success.

The whole series of dreams, however, remained in my memory as a connected whole when I awoke.

FIRST DREAM.

    "Any fool can get into a hole."--Old Chinese proverb.

    "If left to you, for defence make spades."--Bridge Maxim.

I felt lonely, and not a little sad, as I stood on the bank of the river near Duffer's Drift
and watched the red dust haze, raised by the southward departing column in the distance, turn
slowly into gold as it hung in the afternoon sunlight. It was just three o'clock, and here
I was on the banks of the Silliaasvogel river, left behind by my column with a party of fifty
N.C.O.'s and men to hold the drift. It was an important ford, because it was the only one across
which wheeled traffic could pass for some miles up or down the river.

The river was a sluggish stream, not now in flood, crawling along at the very bottom of its
bed between steep banks which were almost vertical, or at any rate too steep for wagons everywhere
except at the drift itself. The banks from the river edge to their tops and some distance outwards
were covered with dense thorn and other bushes, which formed a screen impenetrable to the sight.
They were also broken by small ravines and holes, where the earth had been eaten away by the
river when in flood, and were consequently very rough.

Some two thousand odd yards north of the drift was a flat-topped, rocky mountain, and about
a mile to the northeast appeared the usual sugar-loaf kopje, covered with bushes and boulders--steep
on the south, but gently falling to the north; this had a farm on the near side of it. About
a thousand yards south of the drift was a convex and smooth hill, somewhat like an inverted
basin, sparsely sown with small boulders, and with a Kaffir kraal, consisting of a few grass
and mud huts on top. Between the river and the hills on the north the ground consisted of open
and almost level veldt; on the south bank the veldt was more undulating, and equally open.
The whole place was covered with ant-hills.

My orders were--to hold Duffer's Drift at all costs. That I should probably be visited by some
column within three or four days' time. That I might possibly be attacked before that time,
but that this was very unlikely, as no enemy were known to be within a hundred miles. That
the enemy had guns.

It all seemed plain enough except that the true inwardness of the last piece of information
did not strike me at the time. Though in company with fifty "good men and true," it certainly
made me feel somewhat lonely and marooned to be left out there comparatively alone on the boundless
veldt; but the chance of an attack filled me, and, I am quite sure, my men with martial ardor;
and at last here was the chance I had so often longed for. This was my first "show," my first
independent command, and I was determined to carry out my orders to the bitter end. I was young
and inexperienced, it is true, but I had passed all my examinations with fair success; my men
were a good willing lot, with the traditions of a glorious regiment to uphold, and would, I
knew, do all I should require of them. We were also well supplied with ammunition and rations;
and had a number of picks, shovels and sandbags, etc., which I confess had been rather forced
on me.

As I turned towards my gallant little detachment, visions of a bloody and desperate fight crossed
my mind--a fight to the last cartridge, and then an appeal to cold steel, with ultimate victory--and----
But a discreet cough at my elbow brought me back to realities, and warned me that my color-sergeant
was waiting for orders.

After a moment's consideration, I decided to pitch my small camp on a spot just south of the
drift, because it was slightly rising ground, which I knew should be chosen for a camp whenever
possible. It was, moreover, quite close to the drift, which was also in its favor, for, as
everyone knows, if you are told off to guard anything, you mount a guard quite close to it,
and place a sentry, if possible, standing on top of it. The place picked out by me also had
the river circling round three sides of it in a regular horseshoe bend, which formed a kind
of ditch, or, as the book says, "a natural obstacle." I was indeed lucky to have such an ideal
place close at hand; nothing could have been more suitable.

I came to the conclusion that, as the enemy were not within a hundred miles, there would be
no need to place the camp in a state of defence till the following day. Besides, the men were
tired after their long trek, and it would be quite as much as they could do comfortably to
arrange nice and shipshape all the stores and tools, which had been dumped down anyhow in a
heap, pitch the camp, and get their teas before dark.

Between you and me, I was really relieved to be able to put off my defensive measures till
the morrow, because I was a wee bit puzzled as to what to do. In fact, the more I thought,
the more puzzled I grew. The only "measures of defence" I could recall for the moment were,
how to tie "a thumb or overhand knot," and how long it takes to cut down an apple tree of six
inches' diameter. Unluckily neither of these useful facts seemed quite to apply. Now, if they
had given me a job like fighting the battle of Waterloo, or Sedan, or Bull Run, I knew all
about that, as I had crammed it up and been examined in it, too. I also knew how to take up
a position for a division, or even an army corps, but the stupid little subaltern's game of
the defence of a drift with a small detachment was, curiously enough, most perplexing. I had
never really considered such a thing. However, in the light of my habitual dealings with army
corps, it would, no doubt, be child's-play after a little thought.

Having issued my immediate orders accordingly, I decided to explore the neighborhood, but was
for a moment puzzled as to which direction I should take; for, having no horse, I could not
possibly get all round before dark. After a little thought, it flashed across my mind that
obviously I should go to the north. The bulk of the enemy being away to the north, that, of
course, must be the front. I knew naturally that there must be a front, because in all the
schemes I had had to prepare, or the exams I had undergone, there was always a front, or--"the
place where the enemies come from." How often, also, had I not had trouble in getting out of
a dull sentry which his "front" and what his "beat" was. The north, then, being my front, the
east and west were my flanks, where there might possibly be enemies, and the south was my rear,
where naturally there were none.

I settled these knotty points to my satisfaction, and off I trudged, with my field-glasses
and, of course, my kodak, directing my steps towards the Dutch farm, with gleaming white walls,
nestling under the kopje to the northeast. It was quite a snug little farm for South Africa,
surrounded by blue gums and fruit trees. About a quarter of a mile from the farm I was met
by the owner, Mr. Andreas Brink, a tame or surrendered Boer farmer, and his two sons, Piet
and Gert. Such a nice man, too, with a pleasant face and long beard. He would insist on calling
me "captain," and as any correction might have confused him, I did not think it worth while
to make any, and after all I wasn't so very far from my "company." The three of them positively
bristled with dog's-eared and dirty passes from every provost marshal in South Africa, which
they insisted on showing me. I had not thought of asking for them, and was much impressed;
to have so many they must be special men. They escorted me to the farm, where the guid wife
and several daughters met us, and gave me a drink of milk, which was most acceptable after
my long and dusty trek. The whole family appeared either to speak or to understand English,
and we had a very friendly chat, during the course of which I gathered that there were no Boer
commandoes anywhere within miles; that the whole family cordially hoped that there never would
be again, and that Brink was really a most loyal Briton, and had been much against the war,
but had been forced to go on commando with his two sons. Their loyalty was evident, because
there was an oleograph of the Queen on the wall, and one of the numerous flappers was playing
our National anthem on the harmonium as I entered.

The farmer and the boys took a great interest in all my personal gear, especially a brand-new
pair of latest-pattern field-glasses, which they tried with much delight, and many exclamations
of "Allermachtig." They evidently appreciated them extremely, but could not imagine any use
for my kodak in war-time, even after I had taken a family group. Funny, simple fellows! They
asked and got permission from me to sell milk, eggs, and butter in the camp, and I strolled
on my way congratulating myself on the good turn I was thus able to do myself and detachment,
none of whom had even smelt such luxuries for weeks.

After an uneventful round, I directed my steps back towards the thin blue threads of smoke,
rising vertically in the still air, which alone showed the position of my little post, and
as I walked the peacefulness of the whole scene impressed me. The landscape lay bathed in the
warm light of the setting sun, whose parting rays tinged most strongly the various heights
within view, and the hush of approaching evening was only broken by the distant lowing of oxen,
and by the indistinct and cheerful hum of the camp, which gradually grew louder as I approached.
I strolled along in quite a pleasant frame of mind, meditating over the rather curious names
which Mr. Brink had given me for the surrounding features of the landscape. The kopje above
his farm was called Incidentamba, the flat-topped mountain some two miles to the north was
called Regret Table Mountain, and the gently rising hill close to the drift on the south of
the river was called Waschout Hill. Everything was going on well, and the men were at their
teas when I got back. The nice Dutchman, with his apostolic face, and the lanky Piet and Gert,
were already there, surrounded by a swarm of men, to whom they were selling their wares at
exorbitant rates. The three of them strolled about the camp, showing great interest in everything,
asking most intelligent questions about the British forces and the general position of affairs,
and seemed really relieved to have a strong British post near. They did not even take offence
when some of the rougher men called them "blarsted Dutchmen," and refused to converse with
them, or buy their "skoff." About dusk they left, with many promises to return with a fresh
supply on the morrow.

After writing out my orders for next day--one of which was for digging some trenches round
the camp, an operation which I knew my men, as becomes good British soldiers, disliked very
much, and regarded as fatigues--I saw the two guards mounted, one at the drift, and the other
some little way down the river, each furnishing one sentry on the river bank.

When all had turned in, and the camp was quite silent, it was almost comforting to hear the
half-hourly cry of the sentries--"Number one--all is well;" "Number two--all is well." By this
sound I was able to locate them, and knew they were at their proper posts. On going round sentries
about midnight, I was pleased to find that they were both alert, and that, as it was a cold
night, each guard had built a bonfire, silhouetted in the cheerful blaze of which stood the
sentry--a clear-cut monument to all round that here was a British sentry fully on the qui-vive.
After impressing them with their orders, the extent of their "beat," and the direction of their
"front," etc., I turned in. The fires they had built, besides being a comfort to themselves,
were also useful to me, because twice during the night when I looked out I could, without leaving
my tent, plainly see them at their posts. I finally fell asleep, and dreamt of being decorated
with a crossbelt made of V.C.'s and D.S.O.'s and of wearing red tabs all down my back.

       *       *       *       *       *

I was suddenly awoken, about the grey of dawn, by a hoarse cry--"Halt! who goes----" cut short
by the unmistakable "plip-plop" of a Mauser rifle. Before I was off my valise, the reports
of Mausers rang around the camp from every side; these, mingled with the smack of the bullets
as they hit the ground and stripped the "zipzip" of the leaden hail through the tents, and
the curses and groans of men who were hit as they lay or stumbled about trying to get out,
made a hellish din. There was some wild shooting in return from my men, but it was all over
in a moment, and as I managed to wriggle out of my tent the whole place was swarming with bearded
men, shooting into the heaving canvas. At that moment I must have been clubbed on the head,
for I knew no more until I found myself seated on an empty case having my head, which was dripping
with blood, tied up by one of my men.

       *       *       *       *       *

Our losses were ten men killed, including both sentries, and twenty-one wounded; the Boers,
one killed and two wounded.

       *       *       *       *       *

