By the end of three or four days the prospect opens out. Tremendous cliffs rise sheer from
the bottom of the valley; up tributary cañons one can see a dozen miles to distant snow ranges
glittering and wonderful. Nearer at hand the mountains rise above timber line to great buttes
and precipices.

CHAPTER II

THE FIRST CLIMB

Fisher, Frank, and I had been hunting for elk in the dense forests along the foot of one of
these mountains; and for a half day, drenched with sweat, had toiled continuously up and down
steep slopes, trying to go quietly, trying to keep our wind, trying to pierce the secrets of
the leafy screen always about us. We were tired of it.

"Let's go to the top and look for goats," suggested Frank. "There are some goat cliffs on the
other side of her. It isn't very far."

It was not very far, as measured by the main ranges, but it was a two hours' steady climb nearly
straight up. We would toil doggedly for a hundred feet, or until our wind gave out and our
hearts began to pound distressingly; then we would rest a moment. After doing this a few hundred
times we would venture a look upward, confidently expecting the summit to be close at hand.
It seemed as far as ever. We suffered a dozen or so of these disappointments, and then learned
not to look up. This was only after we had risen above timber line to the smooth, rounded rock-and-grass
shoulder of the mountain. Then three times we made what we thought was a last spurt, only to
find ourselves on a "false summit." After a while we grew resigned, we realized that we were
never going to get anywhere, but were to go on forever, without ultimate purpose and without
hope, pushing with tired legs, gasping with inadequate lungs. When we had fully made up our
minds to that, we arrived. This is typical of all high-mountain climbing--the dogged, hard,
hopeless work that can never reach an accomplishment; and then at last the sudden, unexpected
culmination.

We topped a gently rounding summit; took several deep breaths into the uttermost cells of our
distressed lungs; walked forward a dozen steps--and found ourselves looking over the sheer
brink of a precipice. So startlingly unforeseen was the swoop into blue space that I recoiled
hastily, feeling a little dizzy. Then I recovered and stepped forward cautiously for another
look. As with all sheer precipices, the lip on which we stood seemed slightly to overhang,
so that in order to see one had apparently to crane away over, quite off balance. Only by the
strongest effort of the will is one able to rid oneself of the notion that the centre of gravity
is about to plunge one off head first into blue space. For it was fairly blue space below our
precipice. We could see birds wheeling below us; and then below them again, very tiny, the
fall away of talus, and the tops of trees in the basin below. And opposite, and all around,
even down over the horizon, were other majestic peaks, peers of our own, naked and rugged.
From camp the great forests had seemed to us the most important, most dominant, most pervading
feature of the wilderness. Now in the high sisterhood of the peaks we saw they were as mantles
that had been dropped about the feet.

Across the face of the cliff below us ran irregular tiny ledges; buttresses ended in narrow
peaks; "chimneys" ran down irregularly to the talus. Here were supposed to dwell the goats.

We proceeded along the crest, spying eagerly. We saw tracks; but no animals. By now it was
four o'clock, and past time to turn campward. We struck down the mountain on a diagonal that
should take us home. For some distance all went well enough. To be sure, it was very steep,
and we had to pay due attention to balance and sliding. Then a rock wall barred our way. It
was not a very large rock wall. We went below it. After a hundred yards we struck another.
By now the first had risen until it towered far above us, a sheer, gray cliff behind which
the sky was very blue. We skirted the base of the second and lower cliff. It led us to another;
and to still another. Each of these we passed on the talus beneath it; but with increasing
difficulty, owing to the fact that the wide ledges were pinching out. At last we found ourselves
cut off from farther progress. To our right rose tier after tier of great cliffs, serenely
and loftily unconscious of any little insects like ourselves that might be puttering around
their feet. Straight ahead the ledge ceased to exist. To our left was a hundred-foot drop to
the talus that sloped down to the cañon. The cañon did not look so very far away, and we desired
mightily to reach it. The only alternative to getting straight down was to climb back the weary
way we had come; and that meant all night without food, warm clothing, or shelter on a snow-and-ice
mountain.

Therefore, we scouted that hundred-foot drop to our left very carefully. It seemed hopeless;
but at last I found a place where a point of the talus ran up to a level not much below our
own. The only difficulty was that between ourselves and that point of talus extended a piece
of sheer wall. I slung my rifle over my back, and gave myself to a serious consideration of
that wall. Then I began to work out across its face.

The principle of safe climbing is to maintain always three points of suspension: that it to
say, one should keep either both footholds and one handhold, or both handholds and one foothold.
Failing that, one is taking long chances. With this firmly in mind, I spidered out across the
wall, testing every projection and cranny before I trusted any weight to it. One apparently
solid projection as big as my head came away at the first touch, and went bouncing off into
space. Finally I stood, or rather sprawled, almost within arm's length of a tiny scrub pine
growing solidly in a crevice just over the talus. Once there, our troubles were over; but there
seemed no way of crossing. For the moment it actually looked as though four feet only would
be sufficient to turn us back.

At last, however, I found a toehold half way across. It was a very slight crevice, and not
more than two inches deep. The toe of a boot would just hold there without slipping. Unfortunately,
there were no handholds above it. After thinking the matter over, however, I made up my mind
to violate, for this occasion only, the rules for climbing. I inserted the toe, gathered myself,
and with one smooth swoop swung myself across and grabbed that tiny pine!

Fisher now worked his way out and crossed in the same manner. But Frank was too heavy for such
gymnastics. Fisher therefore took a firm grip on the pine, inserted his toe in the crevice,
and hung on with all his strength while Frank crossed on his shoulders!

CHAPTER III

THE SECOND AND THIRD CLIMBS

Once more, lured by the promise of the tracks we had seen, we climbed this same mountain, but
again without results. By now, you may be sure, we had found an easier way home! This was a
very hard day's work, but uneventful.

Now, four days later, I crossed the river and set off above to explore in the direction of
the Continental Divide. Of course I had no intention of climbing for goats, or, indeed, of
hunting very hard for anything. My object was an idle go-look-see. Equally, of course, after
I had rammed around most happily for a while up the wooded stream-bed of that cañon, I turned
sharp to the right and began to climb the slope of the spur, running out at right angles to
the main ranges that constituted one wall of my cañon. It was fifteen hundred nearly perpendicular
feet of hard scrambling through windfalls. Then when I had gained the ridge, I thought I might
as well keep along it a little distance. And then, naturally, I saw the main peaks not so very
far away; and was in for it!

On either side of me the mountain dropped away abruptly. I walked on a knife edge, steeply
rising. Great cañons yawned close at either hand, and over across were leagues of snow mountains.

In the cañon from which I had emerged a fine rain had been falling. Here it had turned to wet
sleet. As I mounted, the slush underfoot grew firmer, froze, then changed to dry, powdery snow.
This change was interesting and beautiful, but rather uncomfortable, for my boots, soaked through
by the slush, now froze solid and scraped various patches of skin from my feet. It was interesting,
too, to trace the change in bird life as the altitude increased. At snow line the species had
narrowed down to a few ravens, a Canada jay, a blue grouse or so, nuthatches, and brown creepers.
I saw one fresh elk track, innumerable marten, and the pad of a very large grizzly.

The ridge mounted steadily. After I had gained to 2,300 feet above the cañon I found that the
ridge dipped to a saddle 600 feet lower. It really grieved me to give up that hard-earned six
hundred, and then to buy it back again by another hard, slow, toilsome climb. Again I found
my way barred by some unsuspected cliffs about sixty feet in height. Fortunately, they were
well broken; and I worked my way to the top by means of ledges.

Atop this the snow suddenly grew deeper and the ascent more precipitous. I fairly wallowed
along. The timber line fell below me. All animal life disappeared. My only companions were
now at spaced-out and mighty intervals the big bare peaks that had lifted themselves mysteriously
from among their lesser neighbours, with which heretofore they had been confused. In spite
of very heavy exertions, I began to feel the cold; so I unslung my rucksack and put on my buckskin
shirt. The snow had become very light and feathery. The high, still buttes and crags of the
main divide were right before me. Light fog wreaths drifted and eddied slowly, now concealing,
now revealing the solemn crags and buttresses. Over everything--the rocks, the few stunted
and twisted small trees, the very surface of the snow itself--lay a heavy rime of frost. This
rime stood out in long, slender needles an inch to an inch and a half in length, sparkling
and fragile and beautiful. It seemed that a breath of wind or even a loud sound would precipitate
the glittering panoply to ruin; but in all the really awesome silence and hushed breathlessness
of that strange upper world there was nothing to disturb them. The only motion was that of
the idly-drifting fog wreaths; the only sound was that made by the singing of the blood in
my ears! I felt as though I were in a world holding its breath.

It was piercing cold. I ate a biscuit and a few prunes, tramping energetically back and forth
to keep warm. I could see in all directions now: an infinity of bare peaks, with hardly a glimpse
of forests or streams or places where things might live. Goats are certainly either fools or
great poets.

After a half hour of fruitless examination of the cliffs I perforce had to descend. The trip
back was long. It had the added interest in that it was bringing me nearer water. No thirst
is quite so torturing as that which afflicts one who climbs hard in cold, high altitudes. The
throat and mouth seem to shrivel and parch. Psychologically, it is even worse than the desert
thirst because in cold air it is unreasonable. Finally it became so unendurable that I turned
down from the spur-ridge long before I should otherwise have done so, and did a good deal of
extra work merely to reach a little sooner the stream at the bottom of the cañon. When I reached
it, I found that here it flowed underground.

CHAPTER IV

OTHER CLIMBS

For ten days we hunted and fished. When the opportunity offered, we made a goat-survey of a
new place. Finally, as time grew short, we realized that we must concentrate our energies in
one effort if we were to get specimens of this most desirable of all American big game. Therefore
Fisher, Frank, Harry, and I, leaving our other two companions and the majority of the horses
at the base camp, packed a few days' provisions and started in for the highest peaks of all.

We journeyed up an unknown cañon eighteen miles long, heavily wooded in the bottoms, with great
mountains overhanging, and with a beautiful clear trout stream singing down its bed. The first
day we travelled ten hours. One man was always in front cutting out windfalls or other obstructions.
I should be afraid to guess how many trees we chopped through that day. Another man scouted
ahead for the best route amid difficulties. The other two performed the soul-destroying task
of getting the horses to follow the appointed way. After three o'clock we began to hope for
horse feed. At dark we reluctantly gave it up. The forest remained unbroken. We had to tie
the poor, unfed horses to trees, while we ourselves searched diligently and with only partial
success for tiny spots level enough and clear enough for our beds. It was very cold that night;
and nobody was comfortable; the horses least of all.

Next morning we were out and away by daylight. If we could not find horse feed inside of four
hours, we would be forced to retreat. Three hours of the four went by. Then Harry and I held
the horses while our companions scouted ahead rapidly. We nearly froze, for in that deep valley
the sun did not rise until nearly noon. Through an opening we could see back to a tremendous
sheer butte rising more than three thousand feet[C] by a series of very narrow terraced ledges.
We named it the Citadel, so like was it to an ancient proud fortress.

Fisher reported first. He had climbed a tree, but had seen no feed. Ten minutes later Frank
returned. He had found the track of an ancient avalanche close under the mountain, and in that
track grew coarse grasses. We pushed on, and there made camp.

It was a queer enough camp. Our beds we spread in the various little spots among the roots
and hummocks we imagined to look the most even. The fire we had to build in quite another place.
All around us the lodge-pole pines, firs, and larches grew close and dark and damp. Only to
the west the snow ranges showed among the treetops like great, looming white clouds.

For two days we lived high among the glaciers and snow crags, taking tremendous tramps, seeing
wonderful peaks, frozen lakes, sheer cliffs, the tracks of grizzlies in numbers, the tiny sources
of great streams, and the infinity of upper spaces. But no goats; and no tracks of goats. Little
by little we eliminated the possibilities of the country accessible to us. Leagues in all directions,
as far as the eye could reach, was plenty of other country, all equally good for goats; but
it was not within reach of us from this cañon; and our time was up. Finally, we dropped back
and made camp at the last feed; a mile or so below the Citadel. Two ranges at right angles
here converged, and the Citadel rose like a tower at the corner. Here was our last chance.

CHAPTER V

GOATS

As we were finishing breakfast my eye was attracted to a snow speck on the mountainside some
two thousand feet above us and slightly westward that somehow looked to me different from other
snow specks. For nearly a minute I stared at it through my glasses. At last the speck moved.
The game was in sight!

We drew straws for the shot, and Fisher won. Then we began our climb. It was the same old story
of pumping lungs and pounding hearts; but with the incentive before us we made excellent time.
A shallow ravine and a fringe of woods afforded us the cover we needed. At the end of an hour
and a half we crawled out of our ravine and to the edge of the trees. There across a steep
cañon and perhaps four hundred yards away were the goats, two of them, lying on the edge of
small cliffs. We could see them very plainly, but they were too far for a sure shot. After
examining them to our satisfaction we wormed our way back.

"The only sure way," I insisted, "is to climb clear to the top of the ridge, go along it on
the other side until we are above and beyond the goats, and then to stalk them down hill."

That meant a lot more hard work; but in the end the plan was adopted. We resumed our interminable
and toilsome climbing.

The ridge proved to be of the knife-edge variety, and covered with snow. From a deep, wide,
walled-in basin on the other side rose the howling of two brush wolves. We descended a few
feet to gain safe concealment; walked as rapidly as possible to the point above the goats;
and then with the utmost caution began our descent.

In the last two hundred yards is the essence of big-game stalking. The hunter must move noiselessly,
he must keep concealed; he must determine at each step just what the effect of that step has
been in the matters of noise and of altering the point of view. It is necessary to spy sharply,
not only from the normal elevation of a man's shoulders, but also stooping to the waist line,
and even down to the knees. An animal is just as suspicious of legs as of heads; and much more
likely to see them.

The shoulder of the mountain here consisted of a series of steep grass curves ending in short
cliff jump-offs. Scattered and stunted trees and tree groups grew here and there. In thirty
minutes we had made our distance and recognized the fact that our goats must be lying at the
base of the next ledge. Motioning Harry to the left and Fisher to the front, I myself moved
to the right to cut off the game should it run in that direction. Ten seconds later I heard
Fisher shoot; then Harry opened up; and in a moment a goat ran across the ledge fifty yards
below me. With a thrill of the greatest satisfaction I dropped the gold bead of my front sight
on his shoulder!

The bullet knocked him off the edge of the cliff. He fell, struck the steep grass slope, and
began to roll. Over and over and over he went, gathering speed like a snowball, getting smaller
and smaller until he disappeared in the brush far below, a tiny spot of white.

No one can appreciate the feeling of relaxed relief that filled me. Hard and dangerous climbs,
killing work, considerable hardship and discomfort had at length their reward. I could now
take a rest. The day was young, and I contemplated with something like rapture a return to
camp, and a good puttery day skinning out that goat. In addition I was suffering now from a
splitting headache, the effects of incipient snow-blindness, and was generally pretty wobbly.

And then my eye wandered to the left, whence that goat had come. I saw a large splash of blood;
at a spot before I had fired! It was too evident that the goat had already been wounded by
Fisher; and therefore, by hunter's law, belonged to him!

I set my teeth and turned up the mountain to regain the descent we had just made. At the knife-edge
top I stopped for a moment to get my breath and to survey the country. Diagonally across the
basin where the wolves were howling, half way down the ridge running at right angles to my
own, I made out two goats. They were two miles away from me on an air line. My course was obvious.
I must proceed along my ridge to the Citadel, keeping always out of sight; surmount that fortress;
descend to the second ridge; walk along the other side of it until I was above those goats,
and then sneak down on them.

I accomplished the first two stages of my journey all right, though with considerably more
difficulty in spots than I should have anticipated. The knife edge was so sharp and the sides
so treacherous that at times it was almost impossible to travel anywhere but right on top.
This would not do. By a little planning, however, I managed to reach the central "keep" of
the Citadel: a high, bleak, broken pile, flat on top, with snow in all the crevices, and small
cliffs on all sides. From this advantage I could cautiously spy out the lay of the land.

Below me fifty feet dipped the second ridge, running nearly at right angles. It sloped abruptly
to the wolf basin, but fell sheer on the other side to depths I could not at that time guess.[D]
A very few scattered, stunted, and twisted trees huddled close down to the rock and snow. This
saddle was about fifty feet in width and perhaps five hundred yards in length. It ended in
another craggy butte very much like the Citadel.

My first glance determined that my original plan would not do. The goats had climbed from where
I had first seen them, and were now leisurely topping the saddle. To attempt to descend would
be to reveal myself. I was forced to huddle just where I was. My hope was that the goats would
wander along the saddle toward me, and not climb the other butte opposite. Also I wanted them
to hurry, please, as the snow in which I sat was cold, and the wind piercing.

This apparently they were not inclined to do. They paused, they nibbled at some scanty moss,
they gazed at the scenery, they scratched their ears. I shifted my position cautiously--and
saw below me,[E] lying on the snow at the very edge of the cliff, a tremendous billy! He had
been there all the time; and I had been looking over him!

At the crack of the Springfield he lurched forward and toppled slowly out of sight over the
edge of the cliff. The two I had been stalking instantly disappeared. But on the very top of
the butte opposite appeared another. It was a very long shot,[F] but I had to take chances,
for I could not tell whether or not the one I had just shot was accessible or not. On a guess
I held six inches over his back. The goat gave one leap forward into space. For twenty feet
he fell spread-eagled and right side up as though flying. Then he began to turn and whirl.
As far as my personal testimony could go, he is falling yet through that dizzy blue abyss.

"Good-bye, billy," said I, sadly. It looked then as though I had lost both.

I worked my way down the face of the Citadel until I was just above the steep snow fields.
Here was a drop of six feet. If the snow was soft, all right. If it was frozen underneath,
I would be very likely to toboggan off into space. I pried loose a small rock and dropped it,
watching with great interest how it lit. It sunk with a dull plunk. Therefore I made my leap,
and found myself waist deep in feathery snow.

With what anxiety I peered over the edge of that precipice the reader can guess. Thirty feet
below was a four-foot ledge. On the edge of that ledge grew two stunted pines about three feet
in height--and only two. Against those pines my goat had lodged! In my exultation I straightened
up and uttered a whoop. To my surprise it was answered from behind me. Frank had followed my
trail. He had killed a nanny and was carrying the head. Everybody had goats!

After a great deal of man[oe]uvring we worked our way down to the ledge by means of a crevice
and a ten-foot pole. Then we tied the goat to the little trees, and set to work. I held Frank
while he skinned; and then he held me while I skinned. It was very awkward. The tiny landscape
almost directly beneath us was blue with the atmosphere of distance. A solitary raven discovered
us, and began to circle and croak and flop.

"You'll get your meal later," we told him.

Far below us, like suspended leaves swirling in a wind, a dense flock of snowbirds fluttered.

We got on well enough until it became necessary to sever the backbone. Then, try as we would,
we could not in the general awkwardness reach a joint with a knife. At last we had a bright
idea. I held the head back while Frank shot the vertebrae in two with his rifle!

Then we loosed the cords that held the body. It fell six hundred feet, hit a ledge, bounded
out, and so disappeared toward the hazy blue map below. The raven folded his wings and dropped
like a plummet, with a strange rushing sound. We watched him until the increasing speed of
his swoop turned us a little dizzy, and we drew back. When we looked a moment later he had
disappeared into the distance--straight down!

Now we had to win our way out. The trophy we tied with a rope. I climbed up the pole, and along
the crevice as far as the rope would let me, hauled up the trophy, jammed my feet and back
against both sides of the "chimney." Frank then clambered past me; and so repeat.

But once in the saddle we found we could not return the way we had come. The drop-off into
the feather snow settled that. A short reconnaissance made it very evident that we would have
to go completely around the outside of the Citadel, at the level of the saddle, until we had
gained the other ridge. This meant about three quarters of a mile against the tremendous cliff.

We found a ledge and started. Our packs weighed about sixty pounds apiece, and we were forced
to carry them rather high. The ledge proved to be from six to ten feet wide, with a gentle
slope outward. We could not afford the false steps, nor the little slips, nor the overbalancings
so unimportant on level ground. Progress was slow and cautious. We could not but remember the
heart-stopping drop of that goat after we had cut the rope; and the swoop of the raven. Especially
at the corners did we hug close to the wall, for the wind there snatched at us eagerly.

The ledge held out bravely. It had to; for there was no possible way to get up or down from
it. We rounded the shoulder of the pile. Below us now was another landscape into which to fall--the
valley of the stream, with its forests and its high cliffs over the way. But already we could
see our ridge. Another quarter mile would land us in safety.

Without warning the ledge pinched out. A narrow tongue of shale, on so steep a slope that it
barely clung to the mountain, ran twenty feet to a precipice. A touch sent its surface rattling
merrily down and into space. It was only about eight feet across; and then the ledge began again.

We eyed it. Three steps would take us across. Alternative: return along the ledge to attack
the problem ab initio.

"That shale is going to start," said Frank. "If you stop, she'll sure carry you over the ledge.
But if you keep right on going, fast, I believe your weight will carry you through."

We readjusted our packs so they could not slip and overbalance us; we measured and re-measured
with our eyes just where those steps would fall; we took a deep breath--and we hustled. Behind
us the fine shale slid sullenly in a miniature avalanche that cascaded over the edge. Our "weight
had carried us through!"

In camp, we found that Harry's shooting had landed a kid, so that we had a goat apiece.

We rejoined the main camp next day just ahead of a big snowstorm that must have made travel
all but impossible. Then for five days we rode out, in snow, sleet, and hail. But we were entirely
happy, and indifferent to what the weather could do to us now.

MOISTURE, A TRACE

Last fall I revisited Arizona for the first time in many years. My ultimate destination lay
one hundred and twenty-eight miles south of the railroad. As I stepped off the Pullman I drew
deep the crisp, thin air; I looked across immeasurable distance to tiny, brittle, gilded buttes;
I glanced up and down a ramshackle row of wooden buildings with crazy wooden awnings, and I
sighed contentedly. Same good old Arizona.

The Overland pulled out, flirting its tail at me contemptuously. A small, battered-looking
car, grayed and caked with white alkali dust, glided alongside, and from under its swaying
and disreputable top emerged someone I knew. Not individually. But by many campfires of the
past I had foregathered with him and his kind. Same old Arizona, I repeated to myself.

This person bore down upon me and gently extracted my bag from my grasp. He stood about six
feet three; his face was long and brown and grave; his figure was spare and strong. Atop his
head he wore the sacred Arizona high-crowned hat, around his neck a bright bandana; no coat,
but an unbuttoned vest; skinny trousers, and boots. Save for lack of spurs and chaps and revolver
he might have been a moving-picture cowboy. The spurs alone were lacking from the picture of
a real one.

He deposited my bag in the tonneau, urged me into a front seat, and crowded himself behind
the wheel. The effect was that of a grown-up in a go-cart. This particular brand of tin car
had not been built for this particular size of man. His knees were hunched up either side the
steering column; his huge, strong brown hands grasped most competently that toy-like wheel.
The peak of his sombrero missed the wrinkled top only because he sat on his spine. I reflected
that he must have been drafted into this job, and I admired his courage in undertaking to double
up like that even for a short journey.

"Roads good?" I asked the usual question as I slammed shut the door.

"Fair, suh," he replied, soberly.

"What time should we get in?" I inquired.

"Long 'bout six o'clock, suh," he informed me.

It was then eight in the morning--one hundred and twenty-eight miles--ten hours--roads good,
eh?--hum.

He touched the starter. The motor exploded with a bang. We moved.

I looked her over. On the running board were strapped two big galvanized tanks of water. It
was almost distressingly evident that the muffler had either been lost or thrown away. But
she was hitting on all four. I glanced at the speedometer dial. It registered the astonishing
total of 29,250 miles.

We swung out the end of the main street and sailed down a road that vanished in the endless
gentle slope of a "sink." Beyond the sink the bank rose again, gently, to gain the height of
the eyes at some mesas. Well I know that sort of country. One journeyed for the whole day,
and the mesas stayed where they were; and in between were successively vast stretches of mesquite,
or alkali, or lava outcrops, or sacatone bottoms, each seeming, while one was in it, to fill
all the world forever, without end; and the day's changes were of mirage and the shifting colours
of distant hills.

It was soon evident that my friend's ideas of driving probably coincided with his ideas of
going up a mountain. When a mounted cowboy climbs a hill he does not believe in fussing with
such nonsense as grades; he goes straight up. Similarly, this man evidently considered that,
as roads were made for travel and distance for annihilation, one should turn on full speed
and get there. Not one hair's breadth did he deign to swerve for chuck-hole or stone; not one
fractional mile per hour did he check for gully or ditch. We struck them head-on, bang! did
they happen in our way. Then my head hit the disreputable top. In the mysterious fashion of
those who drive freight wagons my companion remained imperturbably glued to his seat. I had
neither breath nor leisure for the country or conversation.

Thus one half hour. The speedometer dial showed the figures 29,260. I allowed myself to think
of a possible late lunch at my friend's ranch.

We slowed down. The driver advanced the hand throttle the full sweep of the quadrant, steered
with his knees, and produced the "makings." The faithful little motor continued to hit on all
four, but in slow and painful succession, each explosion sounding like a pistol shot. We had
passed already the lowest point of the "sink," and were climbing the slope on the other side.
The country, as usual, looked perfectly level, but the motor knew different.

"I like to hear her shoot," said the driver, after his first cigarette. "That's why I chucked
the muffler. Its plumb lonesome out yere all by yourself. A hoss is different."

"Who you riding for?"

"Me? I'm riding for me. This outfit is mine."

It didn't sound reasonable; but that's what I heard.

"You mean you drive this car--as a living----"

"Correct."

"I should think you'd get cramped!" I burst out.

"Me? I'm used to it. I bet I ain't missed three days since I got her--and that's about a year ago."

He answered my questions briefly, volunteering nothing. He had never had any trouble with the
car; he had never broken a spring; he'd overhauled her once or twice; he averaged sixteen actual
miles to the gallon. If I were to name the car I should have to write advt. after this article
to keep within the law. I resolved to get one. We chugged persistently along on high gear;
though I believe second would have been better.

Presently we stopped and gave her a drink. She was boiling like a little tea kettle, and she
was pretty thirsty.

"They all do it," said Bill. Of course his name was Bill. "Especially the big he-ones. High
altitude. Going slow with your throttle wide open. You're all right if you got plenty water.
If not, why then ketch a cow and use the milk. Only go slow or you'll git all clogged up with
butter."

We clambered aboard and proceeded. That distant dreamful mesa had drawn very near. It was scandalous.
The aloof desert whose terror, whose beauty, whose wonder, whose allure was the awe of infinite
space that could be traversed only in toil and humbleness, had been contracted by a thing that
now said 29,265.

"At this rate we'll get there before six o'clock," I remarked, hopefully.

"Oh, this is County Highway!" said Bill.

As we crawled along, still on high gear--that tin car certainly pulled strongly--a horseman
emerged from a fold in the hills. He was riding a sweat-covered, mettlesome black with a rolling
eye. His own eye was bitter, and likewise the other features of his face. After trying in vain
to get the frantic animal within twenty feet of our mitrailleuse, he gave it up.

"Got anything for me?" he shrieked at Bill.

Bill leisurely turned off the switch, draped his long legs over the side of the car, and produced
his makings.

"Nothing, Jim. Expaicting of anything?"

"Sent for a new grass rope. How's feed down Mogallon way?"

"Fair. That a bronco you're riding?"

"Just backed him three days ago."

"Amount to anything?"

"That," said Jim, with an extraordinary bitterness, "is already a gaited hoss. He has fo' gaits
now."

"Four gaits," repeated Bill, incredulously. "I'm in the stink wagon business. I ain't aiming
to buy no hosses. What four gaits you claim he's got?"

"Start, stumble, fall down and git up," said Jim.

Shortly after this joyous rencontre we topped the rise, and, looking back, could realize the
grade we had been ascending.

The road led white and straight as an arrow to dwindle in perspective to a mere thread. The
little car leaped forward on the invisible down grade. Again I anchored myself to one of the
top supports. A long, rangy fowl happened into the road just ahead of us, but immediately flopped
clumsily, half afoot, half a-wing, to one side in the brush, like a stampeded hen.

"Road runner," said Bill, with a short laugh. "Remember how they used to rack along in front
of a hoss for miles, keeping just ahead, lettin' out a link when you spurred up? Aggravatin'
fowl! They got over tryin' to keep ahead of gasoline."

