The election of Balmaceda was bitterly opposed by the Conservatives and dissentient Liberals,
but was finally successfully carried by the official influence exercised by President Santa
Maria. On assuming office President Balmaceda endeavoured to bring about a reconciliation of
all sections of the Liberal party in congress and so form a solid majority to support the administration,
and to this end he nominated as ministers representatives of the different political groups.
Six months later the cabinet was reorganized, and two most bitter opponents to the recent election
of President Balmaceda were accorded portfolios. Believing that he had now secured the support
of the majority in congress on behalf of any measures he decided to put forward, the new president
initiated a policy of heavy expenditure on public works, the building of schools, and the strengthening
of the naval and military forces of the republic. Contracts were given out to the value of
£6,000,000 for the construction of railways in the southern districts; some 10,000,000 dollars
were expended in the erection of schools and colleges; three cruisers and two sea-going torpedo
boats were added to the squadron; the construction of the naval port at Talcahuano was actively
pushed forward; new armament was purchased for the infantry and artillery branches of the army,
and heavy guns were acquired for the purpose of permanently and strongly fortifying the neighbourhoods
of Valparaiso, Talcahuano and Iquique. In itself this policy was not unreasonable, and in many
ways extremely beneficial for the country. Unfortunately corruption crept into the expenditure
of the large sums necessary to carry out this programme. Contracts were given by favour and
not by merit, and the progress made in the construction of the new public works was far from
satisfactory. The opposition in congress to President Balmaceda began to increase rapidly towards
the close of 1887, and further gained ground in 1888. In order to ensure a majority favourable
to his views, the president threw the whole weight of his official influence into the elections
for senators and deputies in 1888; but many of the members returned to the chambers through
this official influence joined the opposition shortly after taking their seats. In 1889 congress
became distinctly hostile to the administration of President Balmaceda, and the political situation
became grave, and at times threatened to involve the country in civil war. According to usage
and custom in Chile, a ministry does not remain in office unless supported by a majority in
the chambers. Balmaceda now found himself in the impossible position of being unable to appoint
any ministry that could control a majority in the senate and chamber of deputies and at the
same time be in accordance with his own views of the administration of public affairs. At this
juncture the president assumed that the constitution gave him the power of nominating and maintaining
in office any ministers he might consider fitting persons for the purpose, and that congress
had no right of interference in the matter. The chambers were now only waiting for a suitable
opportunity to assert their authority. In 1890 it was stated that President Balmaceda had determined
to nominate and cause to be elected as his successor at the expiration of his term of office
in 1891 one of his own personal friends. This question of the election of another president
brought matters to a head, and congress refused to vote supplies to carry on the government.
To avoid trouble Balmaceda entered into a compromise with congress, and agreed to nominate
a ministry to their liking on condition that the supplies for 1890 were voted. This cabinet,
however, was of short duration, and resigned when the ministers understood the full amount
of friction between the president and congress. Balmaceda then nominated a ministry not in
accord with the views of congress under Señor Claudio Vicuña, whom it was no secret that Balmaceda
intended to be his successor in the presidential chair, and, to prevent any expression of opinion
upon his conduct in the matter, he refrained from summoning an extraordinary session of the
legislature for the discussion of the estimates of revenue and expenditure for 1891. When the
1st of January 1891 arrived, the president published a decree in the Diario Oficial to the
effect that the budget of 1890 would be considered the official budget for 1891. This act was
illegal and beyond the attributes of the executive power. As a protest against the action of
President Balmaceda, the vice-president of the senate, Señor Waldo Silva, and the president
of the chamber of deputies, Señor Ramon Barros Luco, issued a proclamation appointing Captain
Jorje Montt in command of the squadron, and stating that the navy could not recognize the authority
of Balmaceda so long as he did not administer public affairs in accordance with the constitutional
law of Chile. The majority of the members of the chambers sided with this movement, and on
the 7th of January Señores Waldo Silva, Barros Luco and a number of senators and deputies embarked
on board the Chilean warship "Blanco Encalada," accompanied by the "Esmeralda" and "O'Higgins"
and other vessels, sailing out of Valparaiso harbour and proceeding northwards to Tarapaca
to organize armed resistance against the president (see CHILEAN CIVIL WAR). It was not alone
this action of Balmaceda in connexion with congress that brought about the revolution. He had
alienated the sympathy of the aristocratic classes of Chile by his personal vanity and ambition.
The oligarchy composed of the great landowners have always been an important factor in the
political life of the republic; when President Balmaceda found that he was not a persona grata
to this circle he determined to endeavour to govern without their support, and to bring into
the administration a set of men who had no traditions and with whom his personality would be
all-powerful. The Clerical influence was also thrown against him in consequence of his radical
ideas in respect of Church matters.

Immediately on the outbreak of the revolution President Balmaceda published a decree declaring
Montt and his companions to be traitors, and without delay organized an army of some 40,000
men for the suppression of the insurrectionary movement. While both sides were preparing for
extremities, Balmaceda administered the government under dictatorial powers with a congress
of his own nomination. In June 1891 he ordered the presidential election to be held, and Señor
Claudio Vicuña was duly declared chosen as president of the republic for the term commencing
in September 1891. The resources of Balmaceda were running short on account of the heavy military
expenses, and he determined to dispose of the reserve of silver bullion accumulated in the
vaults of the Casa de Moneda in accordance with the terms of the law for the conversion of
the note issue. The silver was conveyed abroad in a British man-of-war, and disposed of partly
for the purchase of a fast steamer to be fitted as an auxiliary cruiser and partly in payment
for other kinds of war material.

The organization of the revolutionary forces went on slowly. Much difficulty was experienced
in obtaining the necessary arms and ammunition. A supply of rifles was bought in the United
States, and embarked on board the "Itata," a Chilean vessel in the service of the rebels. The
United States authorities refused to allow this steamer to leave San Diego, and a guard was
stationed on the ship. The "Itata," however, slipped away and made for the Chilean coast, carrying
with her the representatives of the United States. A fast cruiser was immediately sent in pursuit,
but only succeeded in overhauling the rebel ship after she was at her destination. The "Itata"
was then forced to return to San Diego without landing her cargo for the insurgents. The necessary
arms and ammunition were arranged for in Europe; they were shipped in a British vessel, and
transferred to a Chilean steamer at Fortune Bay, in Tierra del Fuego, close to the Straits
of Magellan and the Falkland Islands, and thence carried to Iquique, where they were safely
disembarked early in July 1891. A force of 10,000 men was now raised by the junta of the revolution,
and preparations were rapidly pushed forward for a move to the south with the object of attacking
Valparaiso and Santiago. Early in April a portion of the revolutionary squadron, comprising
the "Blanco Encalada" and other ships, was sent to the southward for reconnoitring purposes
and put into the port of Caldera. During the night of the 23rd of April, and whilst the "Blanco
Encalada" was lying quietly at anchor, a torpedo boat called the "Almirante Lynch," belonging
to the Balmaceda faction, steamed into the bay of Caldera and discharged a torpedo at the rebel
ship. The "Blanco Encalada" sank in a few minutes and 300 of her crew perished.

  Defeat and suicide of Balmaceda.

In the middle of August 1891 the rebel forces were embarked at Iquique (where a provisional
government under Captain Jorje Montt had been set up), numbering in all about 9000 men, and
sailed for the south. On the 20th of August the congressist army was disembarked at Quinteros,
about 20 m. north of Valparaiso, and marched to Concon, where the Balmacedists were entrenched.
A severe fight ensued, in which the troops of President Balmaceda were defeated with heavy
loss. This reverse roused the worst passions of the president, and he ordered the arrest and
imprisonment of all persons suspected of sympathy with the revolutionary cause. The population
generally were, however, distinctly antagonistic to Balmaceda; and this feeling had become
accentuated since the 17th of August 1891, on which date he had ordered the execution of a
number of youths belonging to the military college at San Lorenzo on a charge of seditious
practices. The shooting of these boys created a feeling of horror throughout the country, and
a sensation of uncertainty as to what measures of severity might not be practised in the future
if Balmaceda won the day. After the victory at Concon the insurgent army, under command of
General Campos, marched in a southerly direction towards Viña del Mar, and thence to Placilla,
where the final struggle in the conflict took place. Balmaceda's generals Barbosa and Alcérrica
had here massed their troops in a strong position. The battle, on the 28th of August, resulted
in victory for the rebels. Both the Balmacedist generals were killed and Valparaiso was at
once occupied. Three days later the victorious insurgents entered Santiago and assumed the
government of the republic. After the batile of Placilla it was clear to President Balmaceda
that he could no longer hope to find a sufficient strength amongst his adherents to maintain
himself in power, and in view of the rapid approach of the rebel army he abandoned his official
duties to seek an asylum in the Argentine legation. The president remained concealed in this
retreat until the 18th of September. On the evening of that date, when the term for which he
had been elected president of the republic terminated, he committed suicide by shooting himself.
The excuse for this act, put forward in letters written shortly before his end, was that he
did not believe the conquerors would give him an impartial trial. The death of Balmaceda finished
all cause of contention in Chile, and was the closing act of the most severe and bloodiest
struggle that country had ever witnessed. In the various engagements throughout the conflict
more than 10,000 lives were lost, and the joint expenditure of the two governments on military
preparations and the purchase of war material exceeded £10,000,000 sterling.

An unfortunate occurrence soon after the close of the revolution brought strained relations
for a short period between the governments of the United States and Chile. A number of men
of the U.S.S. "Baltimore" having been given liberty on shore, an argument arose between some
of them and a group of Chilean sailors in a drinking den in Valparaiso. Words led to blows.
The Americans were badly handled, one of their number being killed and others severely hurt.
The United States government characterized the affair as an outrage, demanding an indemnity
as satisfaction. The Chilean authorities demurred at this attitude, and attempted to argue
the matter. James G. Elaine, then secretary of state, refused peremptorily to listen to any
explanations. In the end Chile paid an indemnity of $75,000 as asked, but the affair left bad
feeling in its train.

  President Jorje Montt.

The close of the revolution against Balmaceda left the government of Chile in the hands of
the junta under whose guidance the military and naval operations had been organized. Admiral
Jorje Montt had been the head of this revolutionary committee, and he acted as president of
the provisional government when the administration of the country changed hands after the victory
of the Congressional party. An election was now immediately ordered for the choice of a president
of the republic and for representatives in the senate and chamber of deputies. Admiral Montt,
as head of the executive power, stanchly refused to allow official influence to be brought
to bear in any way in the presidential campaign. The great majority of the voters, however,
required no pressure to decide who was in their opinion the man most fitted to administer the
affairs of the republic. For the first time in the history of Chile a perfectly free election
was held, and Admiral Montt was duly chosen by a nearly unanimous vote to be chief magistrate
for the constitutional term of five years. The senate and chamber of deputies were formally
constituted in due course, and the government of the republic resumed normal conditions of
existence. The new president showed admirable tact in dealing with the difficult problem he
was called upon to face. Party feeling still ran high between the partisans of the two sides
of the recent conflict. Admiral Montt took the view that it was politic and just to let bygones
be bygones, and he acted conscientiously by this principle in all administrative measures in
connexion with the supporters of the late President Balmaceda. Early in 1892 an amnesty was
granted to the officers of the Balmaceda régime, and they were freely permitted to return to
Chile without any attempt being made to molest them. The first political act of national importance
of the new government was the grant of control to the municipalities, which hitherto had possessed
little power to direct local affairs, and were not even permitted to dispose of the municipal
revenues to any important amount without first obtaining the consent of the central government.
Almost absolute power was now given these corporations to manage their own concerns, and the
organization of the police was placed in their hands; at a later period, however, it was found
necessary to modify this latter condition.

President Montt next turned his attention towards the question of how best to repair the damage
occasioned to the country by eight months of civil warfare. The plan of public works authorized
in 1887 was reconsidered, and the construction of portions of the various undertakings recommenced.
The army and navy were reorganized. Additional instructors were brought from Germany, and all
arms of the military service were placed on a thoroughly efficient footing in matters of drill
and discipline. Several new and powerful cruisers were added to the navy, and the internal
economy of this branch of the national defence was thoroughly inspected and many defects were
remedied. President Montt then took in hand the question of a reform of the currency, the abolition
of inconvertible paper money, and the re-establishment of a gold basis as the monetary standard
of the republic. This reform of the currency became the keynote of the president's policy during
the remainder of his term of office. Great opposition was raised by the representatives of
the debtor class in congress to the suppression of the inconvertible paper money, but in the
end President Montt carried the day, and on the 11th of February 1895 a measure finally became
law establishing a gold currency as the only legal tender in Chile. In July 1896 the Conversion
Act was put in force, a dollar of 18d. being the monetary unit adopted. In 1895 relations with
the neighbouring republic of Argentina began to become somewhat strained in regard to the interpretation
of the treaty concerning the boundary between the two countries. The treaties of 1881, 1893
and 1895 left doubts in the minds of both Chileans and Argentines as to the position of the
frontier line. On the 17th of April 1896 another protocol was drawn up, by which the contending
parties agreed to submit any differences to the arbitration of Great Britain, at the instance
of one or both governments. President Montt had now fulfilled his term of office, and on the
18th of September 1896 he handed over the presidential power to his successor, Señor Federico
Errázuriz, who had been duly elected in the month of June previously.

  President Errázuriz.

  Crisis with Argentina.

The election for the position of president of the republic was closely contested in 1896 between
Señor Errázuriz and Señor Reyes, and ended in the triumph of the former candidate by the narrow
majority of one vote. The father of the new president had been chief magistrate of Chile from
1871 to 1876, and his administration had been one of the best the country had ever enjoyed;
his son had therefore traditions to uphold in the post he was now called upon to fill. At the
beginning of 1897 the public attention was absorbed by foreign political questions. The problems
to be solved were the frontier difficulty with Argentina, the question of the possession of
Tacna and Arica with Peru, and the necessity of fulfilling the obligation contracted with Bolivia
to give that country a seaport on the Pacific coast. The treaty made in 1896 with the Argentine
government, referring to the arbitration of disputed points concerning the boundary, became
practically for the moment a dead letter, and both Argentines and Chileans began to talk openly
of an appeal to arms to settle the matter once for all. The governments of both countries began
to purchase large supplies of war material, and generally to make preparations for a possible
conflict. In these circumstances no final settlement with Peru and Bolivia was possible, the
authorities of those republics holding back to see the issue of the Chile-Argentine dispute,
and Chile being in no position at the time to insist on any terms being arranged. So matters
drifted until the beginning of 1898. In July of that year the crisis reached an acute stage.
Both Chile and Argentina put forward certain pretensions to territory in the Atacama district
to the north, and also to a section of Patagonia in the south. Neither side would give way,
nor was any disposition exhibited to refer the matter to arbitration under the protocol of
1896. The cry of an acute financial crisis emanating from the fear of war with Argentina was
now raised in Chile. The president was advised that the only way of averting the financial
ruin of the banking institutions of the republic was to suspend the conversion law and lend
from the national treasury inconvertible notes to the banks. Señor Errázuriz weakly gave way,
and a decree was promulgated placing the currency once more on an inconvertible paper money
basis until 1902. In August of 1898 the Chilean government determined to insist upon the terms
of the protocol of 1896 being acted upon, and intimated to Argentina that they demanded the
fulfilment of the clause relating to arbitration on disputed points. This was practically an
ultimatum, and a refusal on the part of the Argentine government to comply with the terms of
the 1896 agreement meant a declaration of war by Chile. For a few days the issue hung in the
balance, and then the Argentine government accepted the provisions made in 1896 for arbitration.
The dispute concerning the Atacama district was submitted to an arbitration tribunal, consisting
of the representative of the United States in Argentina, assisted by one Argentine and one
Chilean commissioner. This tribunal, after due investigation, gave their decision in April
1899, and the verdict was accepted unreservedly by both governments. The dispute regarding
the Patagonian territory was submitted to the arbitration of Great Britain, and a commission--consisting
of Lord Macnaghten, Sir John Ardagh and Sir T.H. Holdich--was appointed in 1899 to hear the case.

The Argentine difficulty was ended, but Chile still had to find a settlement with Peru and
Bolivia. The treaty made with the former country in 1893 was not ratified, as it was thought
to concede too much to Peru, and the subsequent ad referendum treaty was rejected on account
of Peru claiming that only Peruvians, and not all residents, should have the right to vote
in the plebiscite to be taken by the terms of the treaty of 1883 for the possession of Tacna
and Arica. By the terms of the armistice of 1883 between Chile and Bolivia, a three years'
notice had to be given by either government wishing to denounce that agreement. By the protocol
of 1895 Chile agreed to give to Bolivia the port of Arica, or some other suitable position
on the seaboard. On these lines a settlement was proposed. Vitor, a landing-place a little
to the south of Arica, was offered by the Chilean government to Bolivia, but refused as not
complying with the conditions stated in the protocol of 1895; the Bolivians furthermore preferred
to wait and see if Arica was finally ceded by Peru to Chile, and if so to claim the fulfilment
of the terms of the protocol.

After the accession to office of President Errázuriz there was no stability of any ministry.
Political parties in congress were so evenly balanced and so subdivided into groups that a
vote against the ministry was easy to obtain, and the resignation of the cabinet immediately
followed in accordance with the so-called parliamentary system in vogue in Chile. The president
of the republic has no power to dissolve the chambers, to endeavour to remedy the evil by one
or another political party obtaining a substantial working majority, but must wait to see the
results of the triennial elections. As a consequence of these conditions Conservative, Liberal
and coalition ministries held office at short intervals. These unsettled political circumstances
checked any continuity of policy, and tended to block the passage of all useful legislation
to help forward the economic development of the country and inhabitants; on the other hand,
the financial situation was better by the end of 1899 than in the previous year, since all
proposals for a fresh paper issue had been vetoed; and the elections for congress and municipal
office at the opening of 1900 returned a majority favourable to a stable currency policy.

In September 1900 a fresh outburst of hostile feeling against Chile was created in Argentina
by a note addressed by the Chilean government to Bolivia, intimating that Chile was no longer
inclined to hand over the port of Arica or any other port on the Pacific, but considered the
time ripe for a final settlement of the questions connected with the Chilean occupation of
Bolivian territory, which had now been outstanding for sixteen years. The foreign policy of
Chile, as indicated by this note, was considered by Argentina to be grasping and unconciliatory,
and there were rumours of an anti-Chilean South American federation. Chile disclaimed any aggressive
intentions; but in December the Bolivian congress declined to relinquish their claim to a port,
and refused to conclude a definite treaty of peace. The year closed with a frontier incident
between Chile and Argentina in the disputed territory of Ultima Esperanza, where some Argentine
colonists were ejected by Chilean police; but both governments signed protocols agreeing not
to take aggressive action in consequence.

  President Riesco.

At the opening of 1901 the country was chiefly interested in the forthcoming presidential election,
for which the candidates were Don Pedro Montt (Conservative and Clerical) and Señor German
Riesco (Liberal). The relations between President Errázuriz and congress became rather strained,
owing to the former's inclination to retain in office a ministry on which congress had passed
a vote of censure; but Errázuriz had been in ill-health for more than a year, and on the 1st
of May he resigned, and died in July. At the ensuing election Riesco was elected president.
The attitude of Chile towards the Pan-American Congress at Mexico became a matter of interest
in the autumn, particularly in connexion with the proposal for compulsory arbitration between
all American governments. The Chilean government made it quite clear that they would withdraw
from the congress if this proposal was meant to be retroactive; and their unyielding attitude
testified to the apprehensions felt by Chile concerning United States interference. In October
the Chilean government announced that the contemplated conversion scheme, for which gold had
been accumulated, would be postponed for two years (till October 1903), the gold being held
as a reserve fund pending the result of the arbitration over the Argentine frontier. This was
generally considered to be a reasonable and statesmanlike course. Unfortunately, a recrudescence
of the excitement over the boundary dispute was occasioned by the irritation created in Argentina
by the fact that, pending a decision, Chile was constructing roads in the disputed territory.
During December 1901 relations were exceedingly strained, and troops were called out on both
sides. But at the end of the month it was agreed to leave the question to the British arbitrators,
and the latter decided to send one of their number, Sir T.H. Holdich, to examine the territory.

  Argentine boundary award.

The survey occupied some eight months, and it was not until the autumn that Sir T.H. Holdich
returned to England to make his report. The difficulty of ascertaining the true line watershed
had been very great, but the result was eminently successful. The award of King Edward was
signed on the 20th of November 1902, and both parties to the litigation were satisfied. In
order that future disputes might be amicably settled, a treaty was signed by which it was agreed
that any question that might arise should be submitted to the arbitration of Great Britain
or in default of that power to the Swiss Confederation. The removal of this source of irritation
and the restoration of friendly relations between the two republics was a great relief to the
finance of Chile. Had it not been for the political instability of the country, the effects
of the diminution of expenditure on military and naval preparations would have effected a rapid
improvement in its financial position. The constant change of ministry (there being no stable
majority in the congress) prevented during 1903 any settled policy, or that confidence in the
government which is the basis of commercial prosperity. In 1904, however, both trade and revenue
showed signs of improvement, and the sale of the warships "Esmeralda" and "Chambuco" for £1,000,000
furnished a surplus, which was devoted to the improvement of the port of Valparaiso. This was
the beginning of a period of steady industrial growth and development. The settlement of the
long outstanding dispute with Bolivia in a treaty of peace signed on the 17th of October 1905
was very advantageous to both countries. By this treaty Bolivia ceded all claims to a seaport
and strip of the coast, on condition that Chile constructed at her own charges a railway to
Lapaz from the port of Arica, giving at the same time to Bolivia free transit across Chilean
territory to the sea. A cash indemnity of £300,000 was also paid, and certain stipulations
were made with regard to the construction of other railways giving access from Chile to the
Bolivian interior.

  Valparaiso earthquake

The prosperity of Chile was to suffer a rude shock. On the 17th of August 1906 a terrible earthquake
visited Valparaiso and the surrounding district. The town of Valparaiso was almost entirely
destroyed, while Santiago and other towns were severely shaken and suffered much damage. It
was estimated that about 3000 persons were killed, a still larger number injured, and at least
100,000 rendered homeless. The loss of property was enormous. The fire which broke out after
the earthquake shock had subsided added to the horror of the catastrophe. Measures were, however,
promptly taken for succouring the people, who had been driven from their homes, and the task
of restoration was vigorously taken in hand. Before the end of the year the rebuilding of the
city was rapidly progressing.

  President Pedro Montt.

In 1906 Señor Pedro Montt was elected president and entered upon his office on the 17th of
September. The personality of the president, however, had become of much less importance in
modern Chile than in earlier days. Up to 1870 the government was in the hands of a small oligarchy
of Santiago families, but the president enjoyed large powers of initiative. Nowadays the congress
has virtually absorbed the executive power, with the result that the cabinet is often changed
many times in one year. This prevents indeed any continuity of policy, for the majority in
congress is perpetually fluctuating, and ministerial crises rapidly follow one another. Chile,
however, except in the Balmacedist civil war, is happily distinguished by its freedom from
revolution and serious political unrest. Its history in this respect is in marked contrast
to that of the neighbouring South American states. The completion of the Trans-Andean railway
between Valparaiso and Buenos Aires was bound to be of immense commercial and industrial value;
and eventually the making of a longitudinal railway route uniting the nitrate province of the
north with Santiago, and Santiago with Puerto Montt in the distant south, opened up further
important prospects. Such a line of through communication, binding together the different provinces
forming the long narrow strip of territory stretching along more than 2000 m. of the Pacific
littoral, could only be looked forward to, both politically and economically, as an inestimable
benefit to the country.

  BIBLIOGRAPHY.--General History.--The most valuable authority is D.
  Barros Arana's Historia jeneral de Chile (15 vols., Santiago, 1884),
  from the earliest days up to 1830. Smaller handbooks covering the
  whole period are: A.U. Hancock, a History of Chile (Chicago, 1893),
  the only general history in English, and containing a bibliography;
  Gaspar Toro, Compendio de la historia de Chile (Santiago, 1879), a
  good clear abstract of Chilean history; and F. Valdes Vergara,
  Historia de Chile (Valparaiso, 1898), written primarily for schools,
  but containing useful sketches of leading figures in Chilean history.

  Works on Special Periods.--Colonial Period: M.L. Amunátequi,
  Descubri miento y conquista de Chile (Santiago, 1885), a valuable
  detailed account of the Spanish conquest; by same author, Los
  Precursores de la independencia de Chile (Santiago, 1870), a clear
  useful description of the evils of the Spanish colonial system;
  Horacio Lara, Cronica de la Araucania (Santiago, 1889), a history of
  the Araucanian Indians right up to recent dates; Abbé Eyzaguirre,
  Histoire du Chili (Lille, 1855), mainly dealing with the position of
  the Church during the colonial period. Perez Garcia's Historia del
  reino de Chile (Santiago, 1900), an old history by a Spanish officer
  written about 1780, and Molina's History of Chili in the English
  translation (London, 1809), will also be found useful. Useful material
  for research exists in J.T. Medina's Coleccion de documentos para la
  historia de Chile (Santiago, 1888), a collection of despatches and
  official documents; his Cosas de la colonia (Santiago, 1889), an
  accumulation of undigested information about life in the colonial
  period; and Historiadores de Chile (21 vols., Santiago, 1861), a
  collection of ancient chronicles and official documents up to the
  early part of the 17th century.

  Revolutionary Period.--A. Roldan, Las Primeras Asambleas
  nacionales (Santiago, 1890), an account of the struggles in the first
  national assemblies; A. Valdes, Revolucion Chilena y campañas de la
  independencia (Santiago, 1888), an account of the early fighting and
  rivalry of the revolutionary leaders; W. Pilling, Emancipation of
  South America (London, 1893), a translation of B. Mitre's life of San
  Martin, describing the fighting in the wars of independence; Lord
  Cochrane, Narrative of Services in Chile, Peru and Brazil (London,
  1859), an autobiography describing the naval exploits that helped to
  secure the expulsion of the Spaniards; B. Vicuña Machenna, Vida de
  O'Higgins (Santiago, 1882), giving a useful account of the
  revolutionary struggle and the main actors; and the same author's
  Historia jeneral de la republica de Chile, a collection of essays on
  the early republican history by various writers.

  Later History.--R. Sotomayor Valdes, Historia de Chili,
  1831-1871, a detailed account of the period (Santiago, 1875); the
  same author's Campaña del ejercito Chileno en 1837 (Santiago, 1896),
  describing the fighting of the first Peruvian War; B. Vicuña Machenna,
  D. Diego Portales (Valparaiso, 1863), a good account of the life and
  time of Portales, the famous minister of the Conservative party; P.B.
  Fiqueroa, Historia de la revolution constituyente 1858-59 (Santiago,
  1889), an account of the revolution at the end of Montt's presidency;
  F. Fonch, Chile in der Gegenwart (Berlin, 1870), a description of
  Chile at the time; Statement on Behalf of Chile (in the
  Chilean-Argentine Boundary Arbitration) (6 vols., London, 1901-1902);
  Sir Thomas Holdich, Countries of the King's Award (1904); Beltran y
  Rospido, Los Pueblos hispano-americanos en el siglo XX. (Madrid,
  1904); P.F. Martin, Through Five Republics of South America (London,
  1906); Wright, The Republic of Chile (London, 1905); G.F. Scott
  Elliot, Chilé (London, 1907); Sir W.M. Conway, Aconcagua and
  Tierra del Fuego (London, 1902); "Chile-Argentine Arbitration" in the
  Geog. Journal (January 1903); C.M. Pepper, Panama to Patagonia
  (London, 1907); C.E. Akers, History of South America, 1854-1904
  (London, 1904); M. Hume, Lecture on the Republic of Chile (London,
  1902).    (E. G. J. M.; C. E. A.; G. E.)

FOOTNOTES:

  [1] See A. Pissis, "Sur la constitution géologique de la chaîne des
    Andes entre le 16° et le 55° degré de latitude sud," Ann. des
    mines, ser. 7, vol. iii. (Mém.), 1873, pp. 402-426, pils. ix., x.;
    R.A. Philippi, Die tertiären und quartären Versteinerungen Chiles
    (Leipzig, 1887), (includes also descriptions of some Cretaceous
    fossils), and Los Fósiles secondarios de Chile (Santiago, 1899);
    Karl Burckhardt, "Profils géologiques transversaux de la Cordillère
    argentino-chilienne. Stratigraphie et tectonique," Anales Mus. La
    Plata, 1900, and "Beiträge zur Kenntnis der Jura- und
    Kreide-formation der Cordillere," Palaeontographica, vol. 1.
    (1903-1904) pp. 1-144, pls. i.-xvi.; see also a series of papers on
    South American geology by G. Steinmann and his collaborators in
    Neues Jahrb, für Min. Beil.-band viii. et seq.

  [2] Notes of a Naturalist in South America, p. 134.

  [3] Also classified as Nothofagus (Mirb.).

  [4] A. Gallenga, South America (London, 1880), p. 181.

  [5] The expenditures of 1902 are also given as 25,882,702 pesos gold,
    and 108,844,693 pesos currency.

CHILEAN CIVIL WAR (1891). The Chilean civil war grew out of political dissensions between the
president of Chile, J.M. Balmaceda, and his congress (see CHILE: History), and began in January
1891. On the 6th, at Valparaiso, the political leaders of the Congressional party went on board
the ironclad "Blanco Encalada," and Captain Jorje Montt of that vessel hoisted a broad pennant
as commodore of the Congressional fleet. Preparations had long been made for the naval pronunciamento,
and in the end but few vessels of the Chilean navy adhered to the cause of the "dictator" Balmaceda.
But amongst these were two new and fast torpedo gunboats, "Almirante Condell" and "Almirante
Lynch," and in European dockyards (incomplete) lay the most powerful vessel of the navy, the
"Arturo Prat," and two fast cruisers. If these were secured by the Balmacedists the naval supremacy
of the congress would be seriously challenged. For the present, and without prejudice to the
future, command of the sea was held by Montt's squadron (January). The rank and file of the
army remained faithful to the executive, and thus in the early part of the war the "Gobernistas,"
speaking broadly, possessed an army without a fleet, the congress a fleet without an army.
Balmaceda hoped to create a navy; the congress took steps to recruit an army by taking its
sympathizers on board the fleet. The first shot was fired, on the 16th of January, by the "Blanco"
at the Valparaiso batteries, and landing parties from the warships engaged small parties of
government troops at various places during January and February. The dictator's principal forces
were stationed in and about Iquique, Coquirabo, Valparaiso, Santiago and Concepción. The troops
at Iquique and Coquimbo were necessarily isolated from the rest and from each other, and military
operations began, as in the campaign of 1879 in this quarter, with a naval descent upon Pisagua
followed by an advance inland to Dolores. The Congressional forces failed at first to make
good their footing (16th-23rd of January), but, though defeated in two or three actions, they
brought off many recruits and a quantity of munitions of war. On the 26th they retook Pisagua,
and on the 15th of February the Balmacedist commander, Eulojio Robles, who offered battle in
the expectation of receiving reinforcements from Tacna, was completely defeated on the old
battlefield of San Francisco. Robles fell back along the railway, called up troops from Iquique,
and beat the invaders at Haura on the 17th, but Iquique in the meanwhile fell to the Congressional
fleet on the 16th. The Pisagua line of operations was at once abandoned, and the military forces
of the congress were moved by sea to Iquique, whence, under the command of Colonel Estanislao
Del Canto, they started inland. The battle of Pozo Almonte, fought on the 7th of March, was
desperately contested, but Del Canto was superior in numbers, and Robles was himself killed
and his army dispersed. After this the other Balmacedist troops in the north gave up the struggle.
Some were driven into Peru, others into Bolivia, and one column made a laborious retreat from
Calama to Santiago, in the course of which it twice crossed the main chain of the Andes.

The Congressional Junta de Gobierno now established in Iquique prosecuted the war vigorously,
and by the end of April the whole country was in the hands of the "rebels" from the Peruvian
border to the outposts of the Balmacedists at Coquimbo and La Serena. The Junta now began the
formation of a properly organized army for the next campaign, which, it was believed universally
on both sides, would be directed against Coquimbo. But in a few months the arrival of the new
ships from Europe would reopen the struggle for command of the sea; the torpederas "Condell"
and "Lynch" had already weakened the Congressional squadron severely by sinking the "Blanco
Encalada" in Caldera Bay (23rd of April), and the Congressional party could no longer aim at
a methodical conquest of successive provinces, but was compelled to attempt to crush the dictator
at a blow. Where this blow was to fall was not decided up to the last moment, but the instrument
which was to deliver it was prepared with all the care possible under the circumstances. Del
Canto was made commander-in-chief, and an ex-Prussian officer, Emil Körner, chief of staff.
The army was organized in three brigades of all arms, at Iquique, Caldera and Vallenar. Körner
superintended the training of the men, gave instruction in tactics to the officers, caused
maps to be prepared, and in general took every precaution that his experience could suggest
to ensure success. Del Canto was himself no mere figurehead, but a thoroughly capable leader
who had distinguished himself at Tacna (1880) and Miraflores (1881), as well as in the present
war. The men were enthusiastic, and the officers unusually numerous. The artillery was fair,
the cavalry good, and the train and auxiliary services well organized. About one-third of the
infantry were armed with the (Männlicher) magazine rifle, which now made its first appearance
in war, the remainder had the Gras and other breech-loaders, which were also the armament of
the dictator's infantry. Balmaceda could only wait upon events, but he prepared his forces
as best he was able, and his torpederas constantly harried the Congressional navy. By the end
of July Del Canto and Körner had done their work as well as time permitted, and early in August
the troops prepared to embark, not for Coquimbo, but for Valparaiso itself.

The expedition by sea was admirably managed, and Quinteros, N. of Valparaiso and not many miles
out of range of its batteries, was occupied on the 20th of August 1891. Balmaceda was surprised,
but acted promptly. The first battle was fought on the Aconcagua at Concon on the 21st. The
eager infantry of the Congressional army forced the passage of the river and stormed the heights
held by the Gobernistas, capturing 36 guns. The killed and wounded of the Balmacedists numbered
1600, and nearly all the prisoners, about 1500 men, enrolled themselves in the rebel army,
which thus more than made good its loss of 1000 killed and wounded. The victors pressed on
towards Valparaiso, but were soon brought up by the strong fortified position of the Balmacedist
general Barbosa at Viña del Mar, whither Balmaceda hurried up all available troops from Valparaiso
and Santiago, and even from Concepción. Del Canto and Körner now resolved on a daring step.
Supplies of all kinds were brought up from Quinteros to the front, and on the 24th of August
the army abandoned its line of communications and marched inland. The flank march was conducted
with great skill, little opposition was encountered, and the rebels finally appeared to the
south-east of Valparaiso. Here, on the 28th, took place the decisive battle of La Placilla.
Concon had been perhaps little more than the destruction of an isolated corps; the second battle
was a fair trial of strength, for Barbosa was well prepared, and had under his command the
greater part of the existing forces of the dictator. But the splendid fighting qualities of
the Congressional troops and the superior generalship of their leaders prevailed in the end
over every obstacle. The government army was practically annihilated, 941 men were killed,
including Barbosa and his second in command, and 2402 wounded. The Congressional army lost
over 1800 men. Valparaiso was occupied the same evening and Santiago soon afterwards. There
was no further fighting, for so great was the effect of the battles of Concon and La Placella
that even the Coquimbo troops surrendered without firing a shot.

  BIBLIOGRAPHY.--Lieut. Sears and Ensign Wells, U.S.N., The Chilian
  Revolution of 1891 (Office of Naval Intelligence, Washington, 1893);
  The Capture of Valparaiso, 1891 (Intelligence Department, War
  Office, London, 1892); Hermann Kunz, Taktische Beispiele aus den
  Kriegen der neuesten Zeit; der Bürgerkrieg in Chile (Berlin, 1901);
  Revista militar de Chile (February-March 1892); Hugo Kunz, Der
  Bürgerkrieg in Chile (Vienna, 1892); Militär Wochenblatt (5th
  supplement, 1892); Sir W. Laird Clowes, Four Modern Naval Campaigns
  (London, 1902); Proceedings of U.S. Naval Institute (1894) (for La
  Placilla); and the military and naval periodicals of 1892.

CHILE-PERUVIAN WAR (1879-1882). The proximate cause of this war was the seizure, by the authorities
of Bolivia, of the effects of the Chilean Nitrate Company at Antofagasta, then part of the
Bolivian province of Atacama. The first act of hostility was the despatch of 500 soldiers to
protect Chilean interests at Antofagasta. This force, under Colonel Sotomayor, landed and marched
inland; the only resistance encountered was at Calama on the river Loa, where a handful of
newly raised militia was routed (23rd March 1879). About the same time Chilean warships occupied
Cobija and Tocapilla, and Sotomayor, after his victory at Calama, marched to the latter port.
Bolivia had declared war on the 1st of March, but Peru not till the 5th of April: this delay
gave the Chileans time to occupy every port on the Bolivian coast. Thus the Chilean admiral
was able to proceed at once to the blockade of the southern ports of Peru, and in particular
Iquique, where there took place the first naval action of the war. On the 21st of April the
Chilean sloop "Esmeralda" and the gunboat "Covadonga"--both small and weak ships--engaged the
Peruvian heavy ironclads "Huascar" and "Independencia"; after a hot fight the "Huascar" under
Miguel Grau sank the "Esmeralda" under Arturo Piat, who was killed, but Carlos Condell in the
"Covadonga" manoeuvred the "Independencia" aground and shelled her into a complete wreck. The
Chileans now gave up the blockade and concentrated all their efforts on the destruction of
the "Huascar," while the allies organized a field army in the neighbourhood of Tacna and a
large Chilean force assembled at Antofagasta.

On the 8th of October 1879 the "Huascar" was brought to action off Angamos by the "Blanco Encalada,"
and the "Almirante Cochrane." Grau was outmatched as hopelessly and made as brave a fight as
Prat at Iquique. Early in the action a shot destroyed the Peruvian's conning tower, killing
Grau and his staff, and another entered her turret, killing the flag captain and nearly all
the crew of the turret guns. When the "Huascar" finally surrendered she had but one gun left
in action, her fourth commander and three-quarters of her crew were killed and wounded, and
the steering-gear had been shot away. The Peruvian navy had now ceased to exist. The Chileans
resumed the blockade, and more active operations were soon undertaken. The whole force of the
allies was about 20,000 men, scattered along the seaboard of Peru. The Chileans on the other
hand had a striking force of 16,000 men in the neighbourhood of Antofagasta, and of this nearly
half was embarked for Pisagua on the 26th of October. The expeditionary force landed, in the
face of considerable opposition, on the 2nd of November, and captured Pisagua. From Pisagua
the Peruvians and Bolivians fell back along the railway to their reinforcements, and when some
10,000 men had been collected they moved forward to attack the Chilean position of San Francisco
near Dolores station (19th November). In the end the Chileans were victorious, but their only
material gain was the possession of Iquique and the retreat of the allies, who fell back inland
towards Tarapacá. The tardy pursuit of the Chileans ended in the battle of Tarapacá on the
27th. In this the allies were at first surprised, but, rapidly recovering themselves, took
the offensive, and after a murderous fight, in which more men were killed than were wounded,
the Chileans suffered a complete defeat. For some inexplicable reason the allies made no use
of their victory, continued to retreat and left the Chileans in complete possession of the
Tarapacá region. With this the campaign of 1879 ended. Chile had taken possession of the Bolivian
seaboard and of the Peruvian province of Tarapacá, and had destroyed the hostile navy.

  The objective of the Chileans in the second campaign was the province
  of Tacna and the field force of the allies at Tacna and Arica. The
  invasion was again carried out by sea, and 12,000 Chileans were landed
  at Pacocha (Ylo), far to the N. of Arica. Careful preparations were
  made for a desert march, and on the 12th of March 1880 the advanced
  corps started inland for Moquegua, which was occupied on the 20th.
  Near Moquegua the Peruvians, some 2000 strong, took up an unusually
  strong position in the defile of Cuesta de los Angeles. But the great
  numerical superiority of the assailants enabled them to turn the
  flanks and press the front of the Peruvian position, and after a
  severe struggle the defence collapsed (March 22nd), In April the army
  began its advance southward from Moquegua to Tacna, while the Chilean
  warships engaged in a series of minor naval operations in and about
  the bay of Callao. Arica was also watched, and the blockade was
  extended north of Lima. The land campaign had ere this culminated in
  the battle of Tacna (May 26th), in which the Chileans attacked at
  first in several disconnected bodies, and suffered severely until all
  their forces came on the field. Then a combined advance carried all
  before it. The allies engaged under General Narciso Campero, the new
  president of Bolivia, lost nearly 3000 men, and the Chileans,
  commanded by Manuel Baquedano, lost 2000 out of 8500 on the field. The
  defeated army was completely dissolved, and it only remained for the
  Chileans to march on Arica from the land side. The navy co-operated
  with its long-range guns, on the 7th of June a general assault was
  made, and before nightfall the whole of the defences were in the hands
  of the Chileans. Their second campaign had given them entire
  possession of another strip of Peru (from Pisagua to Ylo), and they
  had shown themselves greatly superior, both in courage and leadership,
  to their opponents. While the army prepared for the next campaign, the
  Chilean navy was active; the blockade became more stringent and
  several fights took place, in one of which the "Covadonga" was sunk;
  an expeditionary force about 3000 strong, commanded by Patricio Lynch,
  a captain in the Chilean navy, carried out successful raids at various
  places on the coast and inland.

  The Chilean army was reorganized during the summer, and prepared for
  its next operation, this time against Lima itself. General Baquedano
  was in command. The leading troops disembarked at Pisco on the 18th of
  November 1880, and the whole army was ready to move against the
  defences of Lima six weeks later. These defences consisted of two
  distinct positions, Chorrillos and Miraflores, the latter being about
  4000 yds. outside Lima. The first line of defence was attacked by
  Baquedano on the 13th of January 1881. Reconnaissances proved that the
  Peruvian lines could not be turned, and the battle was a pure frontal
  attack. The defenders had 22,000 men in the lines, the Chileans
  engaged about 24,000. The battle of Chorrillos ended in the complete
  defeat of the Peruvians, less than a quarter of whose army rallied
  behind the Miraflores defences. The Chileans lost over 3000 men. Two
  days later took place the battle of Miraflores (January 15th). Here
  the defences were very strong, and the action began with a daring
  counter-attack by some Peruvians. Neither party had intended to fight
  a battle, for negotiations were in progress, but the action quickly
  became general. Its result was, as before, the complete dissolution of
  the defending army. Lima, incapable of defence, was occupied by the
  invaders on the 17th, and on the 18th Callao surrendered. The
  resistance of the Peruvians was so far broken that Chile left only a
  small army of occupation to deal with the remnants of their army. The
  last engagement took place at Caxacamara in September 1882, when the
  Peruvians won an unimportant success.

CHILIASM (from Gr. [Greek: Chiliasmos, Chilioi], a thousand), the belief that Christ will return
to reign in the body for a thousand years, the doctrine of the Millennium (q.v.).

CHILLÁN, a city and the capital of the province of Ñuble, in the southern part of central Chile,
35° 56' S., 71° 37' W., 246 m. by rail S.S.W. of Santiago and about 56 m. direct (108 by rail)
N.E. of Concepción. Pop. (1895) 28,738; (1902, official estimate) 36,382. Chillán is one of
the most active commercial cities of central Chile, and is surrounded by a rich agricultural
and grazing country. Chillán was founded by Ruiz de Gambôa in 1594. Its present site was chosen
in 1836. The original site, known as Chillán Viejo, forms a suburb of the new city. The hot
sulphur springs of Chillán, which were discovered in 1795, are about 45 m. E.S.E. They issue
from the flanks of the "Volcan Viejo," about 7000 ft. above sea-level. The highest temperature
of the water issuing from these springs is a little over 135°. The principal volcanoes of the
Chillán group are the Nevado (9528 ft.) and the Viejo. After a repose of about two centuries
the Nevado de Chillán broke out in eruption early in 1861 and caused great destruction. The
eruption ceased in 1863, but broke out again in 1864.

CHILLIANWALLA, a village of British India in the Punjab, situated on the left bank of the river
Jhelum, about 85 m. N.W. of Lahore. It is memorable as the scene of a battle on the 13th of
January 1849, between a British force commanded by Lord Gough and the Sikh army under Sher
Singh. The loss of the Sikhs was estimated at 4000, while that of the British in killed and
wounded amounted to 2800, of whom nearly 1000 were Europeans and 89 were British and 43 native
officers. An obelisk erected at Chillianwalla by the British government preserves the names
of those who fell.

CHILLICOTHE, a city and the county-seat of Livingston county, Missouri, U.S.A., situated in
the N. part of the state, on the Grand river, about 80 m. N.E. of Kansas City. Pop. (1890)
5717; (1900) 6905 (538 negroes); (1910) 6265. It is served by the Chicago, Milwaukee & St Paul,
the Wabash, and the Chicago, Burlington & Quincy railways. There are various manufactures.
Coal and limestone are found in the vicinity, and much live stock is raised, wool and hides
being shipped from Chillicothe. Chillicothe was settled about 1830, and the town was laid out
in 1837 on land granted directly by the Federal government; it was incorporated in 1855.

CHILLICOTHE, a city and the county-seat of Ross county, Ohio, U.S.A., on the W. bank of the
Scioto river, on the Ohio & Erie Canal, about 50 m. S. of Columbus. Pop. (1890) 11,288; (1900)
12,976, of whom 986 were negroes, and 910 were foreign-born; (1910 census) 14,508. Chillicothe
is served by the Baltimore & Ohio South-Western (which has railway shops here), and other railways.
The city has two parks. There are several ancient mounds in the vicinity. Chillicothe is built
on a plain about 30 ft. above the river, in the midst of a fertile agricultural region, and
has a large trade in grain and coal, and in manufactures. The value of the city's factory products
increased from $1,615,959 in 1900 to $3,146,890 in 1905, or 94.7%. Chillicothe was founded
in 1796, and was first incorporated in 1802. In 1800-1803 it was the capital of the North-West
Territory, and in 1803-1810 and 1812-1816 the capital of Ohio. Three Indian villages bore the
name Chillicothe, each being in turn the chief town of the Chillicothe, one of the four tribal
divisions of the Shawnee, in their retreat before the whites; the village near what is now
Oldtown in Greene county was destroyed by George Rogers Clark in 1780; that in Miami county,
where Piqua is now, was destroyed by Clark in 1782; and the Indian village near the present
Chillicothe was destroyed in 1787 by Kentuckians.

  See Henry Howe, Historical Collections of Ohio (Columbus, 1891).

CHILLINGWORTH, WILLIAM (1602-1644), English divine and controversialist, was born at Oxford
in October 1602. In June 1618 he became a scholar of Trinity College, Oxford, and was made
a fellow of his college in June 1628. He had some reputation as a skilful disputant, excelled
in mathematics, and gained some credit as a writer of verses. The marriage of Charles I. with
Henrietta Maria of France had stimulated the propaganda of the Roman Catholic Church, and the
Jesuits made the universities their special point of attack. One of them, "John Fisher," who
had his sphere at Oxford, succeeded in making a convert of young Chillingworth, and prevailed
upon him to go to the Jesuit college at Douai. Influenced, however, by his godfather, Laud,
then bishop of London, he resolved to make an impartial inquiry into the claims of the two
churches. After a short stay he left Douai in 1631 and returned to Oxford. On grounds of Scripture
and reason he at length declared for Protestantism, and wrote in 1634, but did not publish,
a confutation of the motives which had led him over to Rome. This paper was lost; the other,
on the same subject, was probably written on some other occasion at the request of his friends.
He would not, however, take orders. His theological sensitiveness appears in his refusal of
a preferment offered to him in 1635 by Sir Thomas Coventry, lord keeper of the great seal.
He was in difficulty about subscribing the Thirty-nine Articles. As he informed Gilbert Sheldon,
then warden of All Souls, in a letter, he was fully resolved on two points--that to say that
the Fourth Commandment is a law of God appertaining to Christians is false and unlawful, and
that the damnatory clauses in the Athanasian Creed are most false, and in a high degree presumptuous
and schismatical. To subscribe, therefore, he felt would be to "subscribe his own damnation."
At this time his principal work was far towards completion. It was undertaken in defence of
Dr Christopher Potter, provost of Queen's College in Oxford, who had for some time been carrying
on a controversy with a Jesuit known as Edward Knott, but whose real name was Matthias Wilson.
Potter had replied in 1633 to Knott's Charity Mistaken (1630), and Knott retaliated with Mercy
and Truth. This work Chillingworth engaged to answer, and Knott, hearing of his intention and
hoping to bias the public mind, hastily brought out a pamphlet tending to show that Chillingworth
was a Socinian who aimed at perverting not only Catholicism but Christianity.

Laud, now archbishop of Canterbury, was not a little solicitous about Chillingworth's reply
to Knott, and at his request, as "the young man had given cause why a more watchful eye should
be held over him and his writings," it was examined by the vice-chancellor of Oxford and two
professors of divinity, and published with their approbation in 1637, with the title The Religion
of Protestants a Safe Way to Salvation. The main argument is a vindication of the sole authority
of the Bible in spiritual matters, and of the free right of the individual conscience to interpret
it. In the preface Chillingworth expresses his new view about subscription to the articles.
His scruples having thus been overcome, he was, in the following year (1638), promoted to the
chancellorship of the church of Sarum, with the prebend of Brixworth in Northamptonshire annexed
to it. In the great civil struggle he used his pen against the Scots, and was in the king's
army at the siege of Gloucester, inventing certain engines for assaulting the town. Shortly
afterwards he accompanied Lord Hopton, general of the king's troops in the west, in his march;
and, being laid up with illness at Arundel Castle, he was there taken prisoner by the parliamentary
forces under Sir William Waller. As he was unable to go to London with the garrison, he was
conveyed to Chichester, and died there in January 1644. His last days were harassed by the
diatribes of the Puritan preacher, Francis Cheynell.

  Besides his principal work, Chillingworth wrote a number of smaller
  anti-Jesuit papers published in the posthumous Additional Discourses
  (1687), and nine of his sermons have been preserved. In politics he
  was a zealous Royalist, asserting that even the unjust and tyrannous
  violence of princes may not be resisted, although it might be avoided
  in terms of the instruction, "when they persecute you in one city,
  flee into another." His writings long enjoyed a high popularity. The
  Religion of Protestants is characterized by much fairness and
  acuteness of argument, and was commended by Locke as a discipline of
  "perspicuity and the way of right reasoning." The charge of
  Socinianism was frequently brought against him, but, as Tillotson
  thought, "for no other cause but his worthy and successful attempts to
  make the Christian religion reasonable."

  A Life by Rev. T. Birch was prefixed to the 1742 edition of
  Chillingworth's Works.

CHILOÉ (from Chile and hué, "part of Chile"), a province of southern Chile, and also the name
of a large island off the Chilean coast forming part of the province. The province, area 8593
sq. m., pop. (1895) 77,750, is composed of three groups of islands, Chiloé, Guaitecas and Chonos,
and extends from the narrow strait of Chacao in 41° 40' S. to the peninsula of Taytao, about
45° 45' S. The population is composed mainly of Indians, distantly related to the tribes of
the mainland, and mestizos. The capital of the province is Ancud or San Carlos, at the northern
end of the island of Chiloé, on the sheltered bay of San Carlos, once frequented by whalers.
It is the seat of a bishopric; pop. (1905) 3182. Other towns are Castro, the former capital,
on the eastern shore of Chiloé, and the oldest town of the island (founded 1566), once the
seat of a Jesuit mission, and Melinca on an island of the Guaitecas group.

  The island of Chiloé, which lies immediately south of the province of
  Llanquihue, is a continuation of the western Chilean formation, the
  coast range appearing in the mountainous range of western Chiloé and
  the islands extending south along the coast. Between this coast range
  and the Andes, the gulfs of Chacao, or Ancud and Corcovado (average
  width, 30 m.) separate the island from the mainland. Chiloé has an
  extreme length north to south of about 118 m., and an average width of
  35 to 40 m., with an area of about 4700 sq. m. There are several lakes
  on the island--Cucao, 12 m. long, being the largest,--and one small
  river, the Pudeto, in the northern part of the island, is celebrated
  as the scene of the last engagement in the war for independence, the
  Spanish retaining possession of Chiloé until 1826.

CHILON, of Sparta, son of Damagetus, one of the Seven Sages of Greece, flourished about the
beginning of the 6th century B.C. In 560 (or 556) he acted as ephor, an office which he is
even said to have founded. The tradition was that he died of joy on hearing that his son had
gained a prize at the Olympic games. According to Chilon, the great virtue of man was prudence,
or well-grounded judgment as to future events.

  A collection of the sayings attributed to him will be found in F.W.
  Mullach, Fragmenta Philosophorum Graecorum, i.; see Herodotus i. 69;
  Diogenes Laertius i. 68; Pausanias iii. 16, x. 24.

CHILPERIC, the name of two Frankish kings.

CHILPERIC I. (d. 584) was one of the sons of Clotaire I. Immediately after the death of his
father in 561 he endeavoured to take possession of the whole kingdom, seized the treasure amassed
in the royal town of Berny and entered Paris. His brothers, however, compelled him to divide
the kingdom with them, and Soissons, together with Amiens, Arras, Cambrai, Thérouanne, Tournai
and Boulogne, fell to Chilperic's share, but on the death of Charibert in 567 his estates were
augmented. When his brother Sigebert married Brunhilda, Chilperic also wished to make a brilliant
marriage. He had already repudiated his first wife, Audovera, and had taken as his concubine
a serving-woman called Fredegond. He accordingly dismissed Fredegond, and married Brunhilda's
sister, Galswintha. But he soon tired of his new partner, and one morning Galswintha was found
strangled in her bed. A few days afterwards Chilperic married Fredegond. This murder was the
cause of long and bloody wars, interspersed with truces, between Chilperic and Sigebert. In
575 Sigebert was assassinated by Fredegond at the very moment when he had Chilperic at his
mercy. Chilperic retrieved his position, took from Austrasia Tours and Poitiers and some places
in Aquitaine, and fostered discord in the kingdom of the east during the minority of Childebert
II. One day, however, while returning from the chase to the town of Chelles, Chilperic was
stabbed to death.

Chilperic may be regarded as the type of Merovingian sovereigns. He was exceedingly anxious
to extend the royal authority. He levied numerous imposts, and his fiscal measures provoked
a great sedition at Limoges in 579. He wished to bring about the subjection of the church,
and to this end sold bishoprics to the highest bidder, annulled the wills made in favour of
the bishoprics and abbeys, and sought to impose upon his subjects a rationalistic conception
of the Trinity. He pretended to some literary culture, and was the author of some halting verse.
He even added letters to the Latin alphabet, and wished to have the MSS. rewritten with the
new characters. The wresting of Tours from Austrasia and the seizure of ecclesiastical property
provoked the bitter hatred of Gregory of Tours, by whom Chilperic was stigmatized as the Nero
and the Herod of his time.

  See Sérésia, L'Église et l'État sous les rois francs au VIe siècle
  (Ghent, 1888).

CHILPERIC II. (d. 720) was the son of Childeric II. He became king of
Neustria in 715, on which occasion he changed his name from Daniel to
Chilperic. At first he was a tool in the hands of Ragenfrid, the mayor
of the palace. Charles Martel, however, overthrew Ragenfrid, accepted
Chilperic as king of Neustria, and, on the death of Clotaire IV., set
him over the whole kingdom. The young king died soon afterwards.
     (C. PF.)

CHILTERN HILLS, or THE CHILTERNS, a range of chalk hills in England, extending through part
of Oxfordshire, Buckinghamshire and Bedfordshire. Running from S.W. to N.E., they form a well-marked
escarpment north-westward, while the south-eastern slope is long. The name of Chilterns is
applied to the hills between the Thames in the neighbourhood of Goring and the headwaters of
its tributary the Lea between Dunstable and Hitchin, the crest line between these points being
about 55 m. in length. But these hills are part of a larger chalk system, continuing the line
of the White Horse Hills from Berkshire, and themselves continued eastward by the East Anglian
ridge. The greatest elevation of the Chilterns is found in the centre from Watlington to Tring,
where heights from 800 to 850 ft. are frequent. Westward towards the Thames gap the elevation
falls away but little, but eastward the East Anglian ridge does not often exceed 500 ft., though
it continues the northward escarpment across Hertfordshire. There are several passes through
the Chilterns, followed by main roads and railways converging on London, which lies in the
basin of which these hills form part of the northern rim. The most remarkable passes are those
near Tring, Wendover and Prince's Risborough, the floors of which are occupied by the gravels
of former rivers. The Chilterns were formerly covered with a forest of beech, and there is
still a local supply of this wood for the manufacture of chairs and other articles in the neighbourhood
of Wycombe.

CHILTERN HUNDREDS. An old principle of English parliamentary law declared that a member of
the House of Commons, once duly chosen, could not resign his seat. This rule was a relic of
the days when the local gentry had to be compelled to serve in parliament. The only method,
therefore, of avoiding the rule came to be by accepting an office of profit from the crown,
a statute of 1707 enacting that every member accepting an office of profit from the crown should
thereby vacate his seat, but should be capable of re-election, unless the office in question
had been created since 1705, or had been otherwise declared to disqualify for a seat in parliament.
Among the posts of profit held by members of the House of Commons in the first half of the
18th century are to be found the names of several crown stewardships, which apparently were
not regarded as places of profit under the crown within the meaning of the act of 1707, for
no seats were vacated by appointment to them. The first instance of the acceptance of such
a stewardship vacating a seat was in 1740, when the house decided that Sir W.W. Wynn, on inheriting
from his father, in virtue of a royal grant, the stewardship of the lordship and manor of Bromfield
and Yale, had ipso facto vacated his seat. On the passing of the Place Act of 1742, the idea
of utilizing the appointment to certain crown stewardships (possibly suggested by Sir W.W.
Wynn's case) as a pretext for enabling a member to resign his seat was carried into practice.
These nominal stewardships were eight in number, but only two survived to be used in this way
in contemporary practice--those of the Chilterns and Northstead; and when a member wished to
vacate his seat, he was accordingly spoken of as taking the Chiltern Hundreds.

  1. Steward and Bailiff of the Chiltern Hundreds, County Bucks.--The
  Chiltern Hundreds formed a bailiwick of the ordinary type. They are
  situated on the Chiltern Hills, and the depredations of the bandits,
  who found shelter within their recesses, became at an early period so
  alarming that a special officer, known as the steward of the Chiltern
  Hundreds, was appointed for the protection of the inhabitants of the
  neighbouring districts. It is doubtful at what date the necessity for
  such an appointment disappeared, but the three hundreds of Stoke,
  Burnham and Desborough are still distinguished by the old name. The
  appointment of steward was first used for parliamentary purposes in
  1750, the appointment being made by the chancellor of the exchequer
  (and at his discretion to grant or not), and the warrant bestowing on
  the holder "all wages, fees, allowances and other privileges and
  pre-eminences." Up to the 19th century there was a nominal salary of
  20s. attached to the post. It was laid down in 1846 by the chancellor
  of the exchequer that the Chilterns could not be granted to more than
  one person in the same day, but this rule has not been strictly
  adhered to, for on four occasions subsequent to 1850 the Chilterns
  were granted twice on the same day. The Chilterns might be granted to
  members whether they had taken the oath or not, or during a recess,
  though in this case a new writ could not be issued until the House met
  again. Each new warrant expressly revoked the grant to the last
  holder, the new steward retaining it in his turn until another should
  be appointed.

  2. Steward and Bailiff of the Manor of East Hundred, or Hendred,
  Berks.--This stewardship was first used for parliamentary purposes in
  1763, and was in more or less constant use until 1840, after which it
  disappeared. This manor comprised copyholds, the usual courts were
  held, and the stewardship was an actual and active office, the duties
  being executed by a deputy steward. The manor was sold by public
  auction in 1823 for £910, but in some manner the crown retained the
  right of appointing a steward for seventeen years after that date.

  3. Steward and Bailiff of the Manor of Northstead, Yorkshire.--This
  manor was crown property before 1750, but was in lease until 1838. It
  has no copyhold lands, nor are there any records of manor courts.
  There are no traces of any profits having ever been derived from the
  office. It was used for parliamentary purposes in 1844 and
  subsequently.

  4. Steward of the Manor of Hempholme, Yorkshire.--This manor appears
  to have been of the same nature as that of Northstead. It was in lease
  until 1835. It was first used for parliamentary purposes in 1845 and
  was in constant use until 1865. It was sold in 1866.

  5. Escheator of Munster.--Escheators were officers commissioned to
  secure the rights of the crown over property which had legally
  escheated to it. In Ireland mention is made of escheators as early as
  1256. In 1605 the escheatorship of Ireland was split up into four, one
  for each province, but the duties soon became practically nominal. The
  escheatorship of Munster was first used for parliamentary purposes in
  the Irish parliament from 1793 to 1800, and in the united parliament
  (24 times for Irish seats and once for a Scottish seat) from 1801 to
  1820. After 1820 it was discontinued and finally abolished in 1838.

  6. Steward of the Manor of Old Shoreham, Sussex.--This manor
  belonged to the duchy of Cornwall, and it is difficult to understand
  how it came to be regarded as a crown appointment. It was first used
  for parliamentary purposes in 1756, and then, occasionally, until
  1799, in which year it was sold by the duchy to the duke of Norfolk.

  7. Steward of the Manor of Poynings, Sussex.--This manor reverted to
  the crown on the death of Lord Montague about 1804, but was leased up
  to about 1835. It was only twice used for parliamentary purposes, in
  1841 and 1843.

  8. Escheator of Ulster.--This appointment was used in the united
  parliament three times, for Irish seats only; the last time in 1819.

  See parliamentary paper--Report from the Select Committee on House of
  Commons (Vacating of Seats) (1894). (T.A.I.)

CHILWA (incorrectly SHIRWA), a shallow lake in south-east Africa, S.S.E. of Lake Nyasa, cut
by 35°20'E., and lying between 15° and 15°35'S. The lake is undergoing a process of desiccation,
and in some dry seasons (as in 1879 and 1903) the "open water" is reduced to a number of large
pools. Formerly the lake seems to have found an outlet northwards to the Lujenda branch of
the Rovuma, but with the sinking of its level it is now separated from the Lujenda by a wooded
ridge some 30 to 40 ft. above the surrounding plains. There are four islands, the largest rising
500 ft. above the water. The lake was discovered by David Livingstone in 1859 and was by him
called Shirwa, from a mishearing of the native name.

CHIMAERA, in Greek mythology, a fire-breathing female monster resembling a lion in the fore
part, a goat in the middle, and a dragon behind (Iliad, vi. 179), with three heads corresponding.
She devastated Caria and Lycia until she was finally slain by Bellerophon (see H.A. Fischer,
Bellerophon, 1851). The origin of the myth was the volcanic nature of the soil of Lycia (Pliny,
Nat. Hist. ii. 110; Servius on Aeneid, vi. 288), where works have been found containing representations
of the Chimaera in the simple form of a lion. In modern art the Chimaera is usually represented
as a lion, with a goat's head in the middle of the back, as in the bronze Chimaera of Arezzo
(5th century). The word is now used generally to denote a fantastic idea or fiction of the
imagination.

CHIMAY, a town in the extreme south-east of the province of Hainaut, Belgium, dating from the
7th century. Pop. (1904) 3383. It is more commonly spoken of as being in the district entre
Sambre et Meuse. Owing to its proximity to the French frontier it has undergone many sieges,
the last of which was in 1640, when Turenne gave orders that it should be reduced to such ruin
that it could never stand another. The town is chiefly famous for the castle and park that
bear its name. Originally a stronghold of the Cröy family, it has passed through the D'Arenbergs
to its present owners, the princes of Caraman-Chimay. The castle, which before Turenne's order
to demolish it possessed seven towers, has now only one in ruins, and a modern château was
built in the Tudor style in the 18th century. This domain carried with it the right to one
of the twelve peerages of Hainaut. Madame Tallien, daughter of Dr Cabarrus, the Lady of Thermidor,
married as her second husband the prince de Chimay, and held her little court here down to
her death in 1835. There is a memorial to her in the church, which also contains a fine monument
of Phillippe de Cröy, chamberlain and comrade in arms of the emperor Charles V. John Froissart
the chronicler died and was buried here. There is a statue in his honour on the Grand Place.
Chimay is situated on a stream called the White Water, which in its lower course becomes the
Viroin and joins the Meuse.

CHIME, (1) (Probably derived from a mistaken separation into two words, chimbe bell, of chymbal
or chymbel, the old form of "cymbal," Lat. cymbalum), a mechanical arrangement by which a set
of bells in a church or other tower, or in a clock, are struck so as to produce a sequence
of musical sounds or a tune. For the mechanism of such an arrangement in a clock and in a set
of bells, see the articles CLOCK and BELL. The word is also applied to the tune thus played
by the bells and also to the harmonious "fall" of verse, and so, figuratively, to any harmonious
agreement of thought or action. (2) (From Mid. Eng. chimb, a word meaning "edge," common in
varied forms to Teutonic languages, cf. Ger. Kimme), the bevelled rim formed by the projecting
staves at the ends of a cask.

CHIMERE (Lat. chimera, chimaera; O. Fr. chamarre, Mod. Fr. simarre; Ital. zimarra; cf. Span.
zamarra, a sheepskin coat; possibly derived ultimately from Gr. [Greek: cheimerios], "wintry,"
i.e. a winter overcoat), in modern English use the name of a garment worn as part of the ceremonial
dress of Anglican bishops. It is a long sleeveless gown of silk or satin, open down the front,
gathered in at the back between the shoulders, and with slits for the arms. It is worn over
the rochet (q.v.), and its colour is either black or scarlet (convocation robes). By a late
abuse the sleeves of the rochet were, from motives of convenience, sometimes attached to the
chimere. The origin of the chimere has been the subject of much debate; but the view that it
is a modification of the cope (q.v.) is now discarded, and it is practically proved to be derived
from the medieval tabard (tabardum, taberda or collobium), an upper garment worn in civil life
by all classes of people both in England and abroad. It has therefore a common origin with
certain academic robes (see ROBES, § Academic dress).

The word "chimere," which first appears in England in the 14th century, was sometimes applied
not only to the tabard worn over the rochet, but to the sleeved cassock worn under it. Thus
Archbishop Scrope is described as wearing when on his way to execution (1405) a blue chimere
with sleeves. But the word properly applies to the sleeveless tabard which tended to supersede,
from the 15th century onwards, the inconvenient cappa clausa (a long closed cloak with a slit
in front for the arms) as the out-of-doors upper garment of bishops. These chimeres, the colours
of which (murrey, scarlet, green, &c.) may possibly have denoted academical rank, were part
of the civil costume of prelates. Thus in the inventory of Walter Skirlawe, bishop of Durham
(1405-1406), eight chimeres of various colours are mentioned, including two for riding (pro
equitatura). The chimere was, moreover, a cold weather garment. In summer its place was taken
by the tippet.

In the Anglican form for the consecration of bishops the newly consecrated prelate, hitherto
vested in rochet, is directed to put on "the rest of the episcopal habit," i.e. the chimere.
The robe has thus become in the Church of England symbolical of the episcopal office, and is
in effect a liturgical vestment. The rubric containing this direction was added to the Book
of Common Prayer in 1662; and there is proof that the development of the chimere into at least
a choir vestment was subsequent to the Reformation. Foxe, indeed, mentions that Hooper at his
consecration wore "a long scarlet chymere down to the foot" (Acts and Mon., ed. 1563, p. 1051),
a source of trouble to himself and of scandal to other extreme reformers; but that this was
no more than the full civil dress of a bishop is proved by the fact that Archbishop Parker
at his consecration wore surplice and tippet, and only put on the chimere, when the service
was over, to go away in. This civil quality of the garment still survives alongside the other;
the full dress of an Anglican prelate at civil functions of importance (e.g. in parliament,
or at court) is still rochet and chimere.

  The continental equivalent of the chimere is the zimarra or
  simarre, which is defined by foreign ecclesiologists (Moroni,
  Barbier de Montault) as a kind of soutane (cassock), from which it
  is distinguished by having a small cape and short, open arms
  (manches-fausses) reaching to the middle of the upper arm and
  decorated with buttons. In France and Germany it is fitted more or
  less to the figure; in Italy it is wider and falls down straight in
  front. Like the soutane, the zimarra is not proper to any
  particular rank of clergy, but in the case of bishops and prelates it
  is ornamented with red buttons and bindings. It never has a train
  (cauda). It is not universally worn, e.g. in Germany apparently only
  by prelates. G. Moroni identifies the zimarra with the epitogium
  which Domenico Magri, in his Hierolexicon (ed. 1677), calls the
  uppermost garment of the clergy, worn over the soutane (toga)
  instead of the mantellum (vestis suprema clericorum loco pallii),
  with a cross-reference to Tabardum, the "usual" upper garment
  (pallium usuale); and this definition is repeated in the 8th edition
  of the work (1732). From this it appears that so late as the middle of
  the 18th century the zimarra was still in common use as an
  out-of-doors overcoat. But, according to Moroni, by the latter half of
  the 19th century the zimarra, though still worn by certain civilians
  (e.g. notaries and students), had become in Italy chiefly the domestic
  garment of the clergy, notably of superiors, parish priests, rectors,
  certain regulars, priests of congregations, bishops, prelates and
  cardinals. It was worn also by the Roman senators, and is still worn
  by university professors. A black zimarra lined with white, and
  sometimes ornamented with a white binding and gold tassels, is worn by
  the pope.

  More analogous to the Anglican chimere in shape, though not in
  significance, is the purple mantelletum worn over the rochet by
  bishops, and by others authorized to wear the episcopal insignia, in
  presence of the pope or his legates. This symbolizes the temporary
  suspension of the episcopal jurisdiction (symbolized by the rochet) so
  long as the pope or his representative is present. Thus at the Curia
  cardinals and prelates wear the mantelletum, while the pope wears
  the zimarra, and the first act of the cardinal camerlengo after the
  pope's death is to expose his rochet by laying aside the
  mantelletum, the other cardinals following his example, as a symbol
  that during the vacancy of the papacy the pope's jurisdiction is
  vested in the Sacred College. On the analogy of the mantelletum
  certain Anglican prelates, American and colonial, have from time to
  time appeared in purple chimeres; which, as the Rev. N.F. Robinson
  justly points out, is a most unhappy innovation, since it has no
  historical justification, and its symbolism is rather unfortunate.

  AUTHORITIES.--See the Report of the sub-committee of Convocation on
  the ornaments of the church and its ministers, p. 31 (London, 1908);
  the Rev. N.F. Robinson, "The black chimere of Anglican Prelates: a
  plea for its retention and proper use," in Transactions of the St
  Paul's Ecclesiological Soc. vol. iv. pp. 181-220 (London, 1898);
  Herbert Druitt, Costume on Brasses (London, 1906); G. Moroni,
  Dizionario dell' erudizione storico-ecclesiastica (Venice, 1861),
  vol. 103, s.v. "Zimarra": X. Barbier de Montault, Traité pratique de
  la construction, &c., des églises, ii. 538 (Paris, 1878).    (W. A. P.)

CHIMESYAN (Tsimshian), a tribe of North American Indians, now some 3000 in number, living around
the mouth of the Skeena river, British Columbia, and on the islands near the coast. They are
a powerfully built people, who tattoo and wear labrets and rings in noses and ears. They are
skilful fishermen, and live in large communal houses. They are divided into clans and distinct
social orders.

CHIMKENT, a town of Asiatic Russia, in the province of Syr-darya, 70 m. by rail N.N.E. of Tashkent.
Pop. (1897) 10,756, mostly Sarts. It occupies a strategical position at the west end of the
valley between the Alexander range and the Ala-tau (or Talas-tau), at the meeting of commercial
routes from (1) Vyernyi and Siberia beyond, from the north-east, (2) the Aral Sea and Orenburg
(connected with it by rail since 1905) to the north-west, and (3) Ferghana and Bokhara to the
south. The citadel, which was stormed by the Russians in 1864, stands on high ground above
the town, but is now in ruins. Chimkent is visited by consumptive patients who wish to try
the koumiss cure. It has cotton mills and soap-works.

CHIMNEY (through the Fr. cheminée, from caminata, sc. camera, a Lat. derivative of caminus,
an oven or furnace), in architecture, that portion of a building, rising above the roof, in
which are the flues conveying the smoke to the outer air. Originally the term included the
fireplace as well as the chimney shaft. At Rochester Castle (1130) and Heddington, Essex, there
were no external chimney shafts, and the flue was carried through the wall at some height above
the fireplace. In the early examples the chimney shaft was circular, with one flue only, and
was terminated with a conical cap, the smoke issuing from openings in the side, which at Sherborne
Abbey (A.D. 1300) were treated decoratively. It was not till the 15th century that the smoke
issued at the top, and later in the century that more than one flue was carried up in the same
shaft. There are a few examples of the clustered shaft in stone, but as a rule they are contemporaneous
with the general use of brick. The brick chimney shafts, of which there are fine specimens
at Hampton Court, were richly decorated with chevrons and other geometrical patterns. One of
the best examples is that at Thornton Castle, Gloucestershire.

In the 15th and 16th centuries in France the chimney shaft was
recognized as an important architectural feature, and was of
considerable elevation in consequence of the great height of the roofs.
In the château of Meillant (1503) the chimney shafts are decorated with
angle buttresses, niches and canopies, in the late Flamboyant style; and
at Chambord and Blois they are carved with pilasters and niches with
panelling above, carved with the salamander and other armorial devices.
In the Roman palaces they are sometimes masked by the balustrades, and
(when shown) take the form of sepulchral urns, as if to disguise their
real purpose. Though not of a very architectural character, the chimneys
at Venice present perhaps the greatest variety of terminations, and as a
rule the smoke comes out on the sides and not through the top.
    (R. P. S.)

  Factory Chimneys.--Chimneys, besides removing the products of
  combustion, also serve to provide the fire with the air requisite for
  burning the fuel. The hot air in the shaft, being lighter than the
  cold air outside it, tends to rise, and as it does so air flows in at
  the bottom to take its place. An ascending current is thus established
  in the chimney, its velocity, other things being equal, varying as the
  square root of the height of the shaft above the grate. The velocity
  also increases with increase of temperature in the gas column, but
  since the weight of each cubic foot grows less as the gases expand,
  the amount of smoke discharged by a chimney does not increase
  indefinitely with the temperature; a maximum is reached when the
  difference in temperature between the gases in the shaft and the
  outside air is about 600° F., but the rate of increase is very slow
  after the difference has passed about 300° F. In designing a chimney
  the dimensions (height and sectional area) have to be so proportioned
  to the amount of fuel to be burnt in the various furnaces connected
  with it that at the temperature employed the products of combustion
  are effectively removed, due allowance being made for the frictional
  retardation of the current against the sides of the flues and shafts
  and in passing through the fire. The velocity of the current in actual
  chimneys varies widely, from 3 or 4 to 50 or 60 ft. a second.
  Increased velocity, obtainable by increasing the height of the shaft,
  gives increased delivering capacity, but a speed of 10 or 12 ft. a
  second is regarded as good practice. Ordinary factory chimneys do not
  in general exceed 180 or 200 ft. in height, but in some cases,
  especially when, as in chemical works, they are employed to get rid of
  objectionable vapours, they have been made double that height, or even
  more. In section they are round, octagonal or square. The circular
  form offers the least resistance to wind pressure, and for a given
  height and sectional area requires less material to secure stability
  than the octagonal and still less than the square; on the other hand,
  there is more liability to cracking. Brick is the material commonly
  used, but many chimneys are now made of iron or steel. Reinforced
  concrete is also employed.

CHIMNEYPIECE, the term given to the projecting hood which in medieval times was built over
a fireplace to catch the smoke, and at a later date to the decorative framework, often carried
up to the ceiling. "Chimneypiece" or "mantelpiece" is now the general term for the jambs, mantelshelf
and external accessories of a fireplace. For many centuries the chimneypiece was the most ornamental
and most artistic feature of a room, but as fireplaces have become smaller, and modern methods
of heating have been introduced, its artistic as well as its practical significance has grown less.

  Up to the 12th century rooms were warmed entirely by a hypocaust, or
  with braziers, or by fires on the hearth, the smoke finding its way up
  to a lantern in the roof. The earliest chimneypiece known is that in
  the King's House at Southampton, with Norman shafts in the joints
  carrying a segmental arch, which is attributed to the first half of
  the 12th century. At a later date, in consequence of the greater width
  of the fireplace, flat or segmental arches were thrown across and
  constructed with voussoirs, sometimes joggled, the thrust of the arch
  being resisted by bars of iron at the back. In domestic work of the
  14th century the chimneypiece was greatly increased in order to allow
  of the members of the family sitting on either side of the fire on the
  hearth, and in these cases great beams of timber were employed to
  carry the hood; in such cases the fireplace was so deeply recessed as
  to become externally an important architectural feature, as at Haddon
  Hall. The largest chimneypiece existing is in the great hall of the
  Palais des Comtes at Poitiers, which is nearly 30 ft. wide, having two
  intermediate supports to carry the hood; the stone flues are carried
  up between the tracery of an immense window above. In the early
  Renaissance style, the chimneypiece of the Palais de Justice at Bruges
  is a magnificent example; the upper portion, carved in oak, extends
  the whole width of the room, with statues of nearly life size of
  Charles V. and others of the royal family of Spain. The most prolific
  modern designer of chimneypieces was J.B. Piranesi, who in 1765
  published a large series, on which at a later date the Empire style in
  France was based. In France the finest work of the early Renaissance
  period is to be found in the chimneypieces, which are of infinite
  variety of design.

  The English chimneypieces of the early 17th century, when the purer
  Italian style was introduced by Inigo Jones, were extremely simple in
  design, sometimes consisting only of the ordinary mantelpiece, with
  classic architraves and shelf, the upper part of the chimney breast
  being panelled like the rest of the room. In the latter part of the
  century the classic architrave was abandoned in favour of a much
  bolder and more effective moulding, as in the chimneypieces at Hampton
  Court, and the shelf was omitted.

  In the 18th century the architects returned to the Inigo Jones classic
  type, but influenced by the French work of Louis XIV. and XV. Figure
  sculpture, generally represented by graceful figures on each side,
  which assisted to carry the shelf, was introduced, and the overmantel
  developed into an elaborate frame for the family portrait over the
  chimneypiece. Towards the close of the 18th century the designs of the
  brothers Adam superseded all others, and a century later they came
  again into fashion. The Adam mantels are in wood enriched with
  ornament, cast in moulds, sometimes copied from the carved wood
  decoration of old times.    (R. P. S.)

CHIMPANZEE (Chimpanzi), the vernacular name of the highest species of the man-like apes, forming
the typical representatives of the genus Anthropopithecus. Chimpanzees, of which there appear
to be at least two species, range through the tropical forest-zone of Africa from the west
coast to Uganda. The typical A. troglodytes has been long known to European science, Dr Tyson,
a celebrated surgeon and anatomist of his time, having dissected a young individual, and described
it, as a pigmy or Homo sylvestris, in a book published in 1699. Of this baby chimpanzee the
skeleton may be seen in the Natural History branch of the British Museum alongside the volume
in which it is described. It was not, however, till 1788 that the chimpanzee received what
is now recognized as a scientific name, having been christened in that year Simia troglodytes
by the naturalist Johann Friedrich Gmelin. In his classification it was included in the same
genus as the orang-utan; and it has recently been suggested that the name Simia pertains of
right to the chimpanzee rather than to the orang-utan. Between the typical West African chimpanzee
and the gorilla (q.v.) there is no difficulty in drawing a distinction; the difficulty comes
in when we have to deal with the aberrant races, or species, of chimpanzee, some of which are
so gorilla-like that it is by no means easy to determine to which group they really pertain.
In height the adult male chimpanzee of the typical form does not exceed 5 ft., and the colour
of the hair is a full black, while the skin, especially that of the face, is light-coloured;
the ears are remarkably large and prominent, and the hands reach only a short distance below
the knees. The head is rounded and short, without prominent beetling ridges above the eyes,
or a strong crest along the middle line of the back of the skull; and the tusks of the old
males are of no very great length and prominence. Moreover, there is no very marked difference
in the size of the two sexes. Gentleness and docility are specially characteristic of the species,
even when full-grown; while in the native state its habits are thoroughly arboreal.

  In central Africa the chimpanzees assume more or less marked
  gorilla-like traits. The first of these aberrant types is
  Schweinfurth's chimpanzee (Anthropopithecus troglodytes
  schweinfurthi), which inhabits the Niam-Niam country, and, although
  evidently belonging to the same species as the typical race, exhibits
  certain gorilla-like features. These traits are still more developed
  in the bald chimpanzee (A. tschego) of Loango, the Gabun, and other
  regions of French Congo, which takes its English name from the sparse
  covering of hair on the head. The most gorilla-like of all the races
  is, however, the kulu-kamba chimpanzee (A. kulu-kamba) of du
  Chaillu, which inhabits central Africa. The celebrated ape "Mafuka,"
  which lived in the Dresden zoological gardens during 1875, and came
  from Loango, was apparently a member of this species, although it was
  at one time regarded as a hybrid between a chimpanzee and a gorilla.
  These gorilla-like traits were still more pronounced in "Johanna," a
  female chimpanzee living in Barnum & Bailey's show in 1899, which has
  been described and figured by Dr A. Keith. The heavy ridges over the
  brow, originally supposed to be distinctive of the gorilla, are
  particularly well marked in "Johanna," and they would doubtless be
  still more noticeable in the male of the same race, which seems to be
  undoubtedly du Chaillu's kulu-kamba. Still the large size and
  prominence of the ears proclaim that both "Mafuka" and "Johanna" were
  chimpanzees and not gorillas. A gorilla-like feature in "Johanna" is,
  however, the presence of large folds at the sides (ala) of the
  nostrils, which are absent in the typical chimpanzee, but in the
  gorilla extend down to the upper lip. Chimpanzees exhibit great
  docility in confinement, where, however, they seldom survive for any
  great length of time. They likewise display a much higher degree of
  intelligence than any of the other man-like apes. (See PRIMATES.)
      (R. L.*)

CHINA, a country of eastern Asia, the principal division of the Chinese empire. In addition
to China proper the Chinese Empire includes Manchuria, Mongolia, Tibet and Sin-kiang (East
Turkestan, Kulja, Dzungaria, &c., i.e. all the Chinese dependencies lying between Mongolia
on the north and Tibet on the south). Its most southern point is in 18° 50' N.; its most northern
in 53° 25' N.; its most western in 74° E., and its most eastern in 135° E. It lies, however,
mainly between 20° and 50° N. and 80° and 130° E. It is considerably larger than the whole
of Europe. Though its area has not been exactly ascertained the various estimates closely approximate,
varying between 4,277,000 and 4,300,000 sq. m. It is bounded N.W., N. and N.E. by Asiatic Russia,
along a frontier extending some 6000 m.; E. by Korea and those parts of the Pacific known as
the Yellow Sea and China Sea; S. and S.W. by the China Sea, French Indo-China, Upper Burma
and the Himalayan states. It is narrowest in the extreme west. Chinese Turkestan along the
meridian of Kashgar (76° E.) has a breadth of but 250 m. It rapidly broadens and for the greater
part of its area is over 1800 m. across in a direct N. and S. line. Its greatest length is
from the N.E. corner of Manchuria to the S.W. confines of Tibet, a distance of 3100 m. in a
direct line. Its seaboard, about 5000 m. following the indentations of the coast, is almost,
wholly in China proper, but the peninsula of Liao-tung and also the western shores of the Gulf
of Liao-tung are in Manchuria.

China[1] proper or the Eighteen Provinces (Shih-pa-shêng) occupies the south-eastern part of
the empire. It is bounded N. by Mongolia, W. by Turkestan and Tibet, S.W. by Burma, S. by Tongking
and the gulf of that name, S.E. by the South China Sea, E. by the East China Sea, the Yellow
Sea, Gulf of Chih-li and Manchuria. Its area is approximately 1,500,000 sq. m.

This vast country is separated from the rest of continental Asia by lofty tablelands and rugged
mountain ranges, which determine the general course--west to east--of its principal rivers.
On the north and west the Mongolian and Tibetan tablelands present towards China steep escarpments
across which are very few passes. On the S.W. and S., on the borders of Yun-nan, high mountains
and deep valleys separate China from Burma and Tongking. On the narrow N.E. frontier the transition
from the Manchurian plateau to the alluvial plain of northern China is not abrupt, but, before
the advent of railways, Manchuria afforded few and difficult means of access to other regions.
Thus China was almost cut off from the rest of the world save by sea routes.

I. THE COUNTRY

Western China consists of highlands often sparsely, and eastern China of lowlands densely peopled.
Western China contains the only provinces where the population is under 100 per sq. m. From
the Tibetan and Mongolian tablelands project mountain ranges which, ramifying over the western
region, enclose elevated level tracts and lower basins and valleys. East of this mountainous
region, which extends into central China and covers probably fully half of the kingdom, are,
in the north a great alluvial plain and in the south a vast calcareous tableland traversed
by hill ranges of moderate elevation (see §§ Mountains and Geology). In north-eastern China
there is only one mountain system, the group of hills---highest peak 5060 ft.---forming the
Shan-tung peninsula. This peninsula was formerly an island, but has been attached to the mainland
by the growth of the alluvial plain. Besides the broad division of the country into western
and eastern China it may also be considered as divided into three regions by the basins of
its chief rivers, the Hwang-ho (Yellow river) in the north, the Yangtsze-kiang in the centre,
and the Si-kiang (West river) in the south. In the northern provinces of Kan-suh and Shen-si
the basins of the Hwang-ho and Yangtsze-kiang are separated by a mountain chain with various
names--the eastern termination of the Kuen-lun range of central Asia. These mountains, in China,
attain, in the Tsing-ling Shan, a maximum elevation of 13,000 ft. East of Shen-si, in Ho-nan
the Fu-niu-shan continue the range, but with decreasing elevation, and beyond this the deltaic
plain is entered.

The watershed between the Yangtsze-kiang and that of the Si-kiang is less clearly marked. It
traverses the immense tableland which occupies a great part of the south-west provinces of
Yun-nan and Kwei-chow and is continued eastward by the lower tableland of Kwang-si and the
Nanshan hills (whose elevation seldom exceeds 6000 ft.). The basin of the Yangtsze-kiang forms
the whole of central China. Its western border, in Sze-ch'uen and Yun-nan, is wholly mountainous,
with heights exceeding 19,000 ft. Central Sze-ch'uen, which is shut in by these mountains on
the west, by the Yun-nan and Kwei-chow plateau on the south, by the Kiu-lung range on the north,
and by highlands eastward (save for the narrow valley through which the Yangtsze-kiang forces
its way), is a vast red sandstone tableland of about 1600 ft. elevation. It is exceedingly
fertile and supports a dense population. Eastward of Sze-ch'uen the Yangtsze valley is studded
with lakes. Finally it enters the deltaic plain. The basin of the Si-kiang fills the two southern
provinces of Kwang-si and Kwang-tung and contains no very striking orographic features. It
may be added that in the extreme S.W. portion of China is part of a fourth drainage area. Here
the Mekong, Salween, Song-koi (Red river), &c. flow south to Indo-China.

  The Coast.--The coast-line, following all the minor indentations,
  is reckoned at over 4500 m.; if only the larger inlets and
  promontories be regarded, the coast-line is about 2150 m. in length.
  Its shape is that of a semicircle, with its most easterly point midway
  (30° N.) between its northern and southern extremities. At either end
  of this semicircular sweep lies a peninsula, and beyond the peninsula
  a gulf. In the north are the peninsula of Shan-tung and the gulf of
  Chih-li; in the south the Lien-chow peninsula and the gulf of
  Tongking. Due south of Lien-chow peninsula, separated rom it by a
  narrow strait, is Hai-nan, the only considerable island of China. From
  the northern point of the gulf of Chih-li to 30° N., where is
  Hang-chow bay, the shores are flat and alluvial save where the
  Shan-tung peninsula juts out. Along this stretch there are few good
  natural harbours, except at the mouths of rivers and in the Shan-tung
  promontory; the sea is shallow and has many shoals. The waters
  bordering the coast of Chih-li are partly frozen in winter; at 10 m.
  from the shore the water is only 20 ft. deep. The proximity of Peking
  gives its few ports importance; that of Taku is at the mouth of the
  Peiho. In Shan-tung, deeply indented on its southern coast, are the
  ports of Chi-fu, Wei-hai-wei and Tsing-tao (the last in Kiao-chow
  bay). South of Shan-tung and north of the mouth of the Yangtsze huge
  sandbanks border the coast, with narrow channels between them and the
  shore. The estuary of the Yangtsze is 60 m. across; it contains
  islands and sandbanks, but there is easy access to Wusung (Shanghai)
  and other river ports. The bay of Hangchow, as broad at its entrance
  as the Yangtsze estuary, forms the mouth of the Tsien-tang-kiang. The
  Chusan and other groups of islands lie across the entrance of the bay.

  South of Hang-chow bay the character of the coast alters. In place of
  the alluvial plain, with flat, sandy and often marshy shores, the
  coast is generally hilly, often rocky and abrupt; it abounds in small
  indentations and possesses numerous excellent harbours; in this region
  are Fu-chow, Amoy, Swatow, Hongkong, Macao, Canton and other
  well-known ports. The whole of this coast is bordered by small
  islands. Formosa lies opposite the S.E. coast, the channel between it
  and Fu-kien province being about 100 m. wide. Formosa protects the
  neighbouring regions of China from the typhoons experienced farther
  north and farther south.

    Deltaic Plain.

  Surface.---As already indicated, one of the most noticeable features
  in the surface of China is the immense deltaic plain in the
  north-eastern portion of the country, which, curving round the
  mountainous districts of Shan-tung, extends for about 700 m. in a
  southerly direction from the neighbourhood of Peking and varies from
  150 to 500 m. in breadth. This plain is the delta of the Yellow river
  and, to some extent, that of the Yangtsze-kiang also. Beginning in the
  prefecture of Yung-p'ing Fu, in the province of Chih-li, its outer
  limit passes in a westerly direction as far as Ch'ang-p'ing Chow,
  north-west of Peking. Thence running a south-south-westerly course it
  passes westward of Chêng-ting Fu and Kwang-p'ing Fu till it reaches
  the upper waters of the Wei river in Ho-nan. From this point it turns
  westward and crosses the Hwang-ho or Yellow river in the prefecture of
  Hwai-k'ing. Leaving this river it takes a course a little to the east
  of south, and passing west of Ju-ning Fu, in the province of Ho-nan,
  it turns in a more easterly direction as far as Luchow Fu. From this
  prefecture an arm of the plain, in which lies the Chao Lake, stretches
  southward from the Hwai river to the Yangtsze-kiang, and trending
  eastward occupies the region between that river and Hangchow Bay. To
  the north of this arm rises a hilly district, in the centre of which
  stands Nanking. The greater part of this vast plain descends very
  gently towards the sea, and is generally below the level of the Yellow
  river, hence the disastrous inundations which so often accompany the
  rise of that river. Owing to the great quantity of soil which is
  brought down by the waters of the Yellow river, and to the absence of
  oceanic currents, this delta is rapidly increasing and the adjoining
  seas are as rapidly becoming shallower. As an instance, it is said
  that the town of P'utai was one Chinese mile[2] west of the seashore
  in the year 200 B.C., and in 1730 it was 140 m. inland, thus giving a
  yearly encroachment upon the sea of about 100 ft. Again,
  Sien-shwuy-kow on the Peiho was on the seashore in A.D. 500, and it is
  now about 18 m. inland.

    Mountains.

  Some of the ranges connected with the mountain system of central Asia
  which enter the western provinces of China have been mentioned above,
  others may be indicated here. In the eastern portion of Tibet the
  Kuen-lun range throws off a number of branches, which spread first of
  all in a south-easterly direction and eventually take a north and
  south course, partly in the provinces of Sze-ch'uen and Yun-nan, where
  they divide the beds of the rivers which flow into Siam and French
  Indo-China, as well as the principal northern tributaries of the
  Yangtsze-kiang. In the north-west, traversing the western portion of
  the province of Kan-suh, are parallel ranges running N.W. and S.E. and
  forming a prolongation of the northern Tibetan mountains. They are
  known as the Lung-shan, Richthofen and Nan-shan, and join on the
  south-east the Kuen-lun range. The Richthofen range (locally called
  Tien-shan, or Celestial Mountains) attains elevations of over 20,000
  ft. Several of its peaks are snowclad, and there are many glaciers.
  Forming the northern frontier of the province of Sze-ch'uen run the
  Min-shan and the Kiu-lung (or Po-mêng) ranges, which, entering China
  in 102° E., extend in a general easterly course as far as 112° E. in
  the province of Hu-peh. These ranges have an average elevation of 8000
  and 11,000 ft. respectively. In the south a number of parallel ranges
  spread from the Yun-nan plateau in an easterly direction as far as the
  province of Kwang-tung. Then turning north-eastward they run in lines
  often parallel with the coast, and cover large areas of the provinces
  of Fu-kien, Kiang-si, Cheh-kiang, Hu-nan and southern Ngan-hui, until
  they reach the Yangtsze-kiang; the valley of that river from the
  Tung-ting Lake to Chin-kiang Fu forming their northern boundary. In
  Fu-kien these hills attain the character of a true mountain range with
  heights of from 6500 to nearly 10,000 ft. Besides the chief ranges
  there are the Tai-hang Mountains in Shan-si, and many others, among
  which may be mentioned the ranges--part of the escarpment of the
  Mongolian plateau--which form the northern frontier of Chih-li. Here
  the highest peak is Ta-kuang-ting-tzu (6500 ft.), about 300 m. N.N.E.
  of Peking and immediately north of Wei Ch'ang (the imperial hunting
  grounds).

    The Yellow River.

  Rivers and Canals.--The rivers of China are very numerous and there
  are many canals. In the north the rivers are only navigable by small
  craft; elsewhere they form some of the most frequented highways in the
  country. The two largest rivers, the Yangtsze-kiang and the Hwang-ho
  (Yellow river), are separately noticed. The Hwang-ho (length about
  2400 m.) has only one important tributary in China, the Wei-ho, which
  rises in Kan-suh and flows through the centre of Shen-si. Below the
  confluence the Hwang-ho enters the plains. According to the Chinese
  records this portion of the river has changed its course nine times
  during 2500 years, and has emptied itself into the sea at different
  mouths, the most northerly of which is represented as having been in
  about 39° N., or in the neighbourhood of the present mouth of the
  Peiho, and the most southerly being that which existed before the
  change in 1851-1853, in 34° N. Owing to its small value as a navigable
  highway and to its propensity to inundate the regions in its
  neighbourhood, there are no considerable towns on its lower course.

    The Yangtsze-kiang.

  The Yangtsze-kiang is the chief waterway of China. The river, flowing
  through the centre of the country, after a course of 2900 m., empties
  itself into the Yellow Sea in about 31° N. Unlike the Yellow river,
  the Yangtsze-kiang is dotted along its navigable portions with many
  rich and populous cities, among which are Nanking, An-ch'ing
  (Ngank'ing), Kiu-kiang, Hankow and I-ch'ang. From its mouth to
  I-ch'ang, about 1000 m., the river is navigable by large steamers.
  Above this last-named city the navigation becomes impossible for any
  but light native craft or foreign vessels specially constructed for
  the navigation, by reason of the rapids which occur at frequent
  intervals in the deep mountain gorges through which the river runs
  between Kwei-chow and I-ch'ang. Above Kwei-chow it receives from the
  north many tributaries, notably the Min, which water the low
  table-land of central Sze-ch'uen. The main river itself has in this
  province a considerable navigable stretch, while below I-ch'ang it
  receives the waters of numerous navigable affluents. The Yangtsze
  system is thus all important in the economic and commercial
  development of China.

  Perhaps the most remarkable of the affluents of the Yangtsze is the
  Han-kiang or Han river. It rises in the Po-mêng mountains to the north
  of the city of Ning-kiang Chow in Shen-si. Taking a generally easterly
  course from its source as far as Fan-cheng, it from that point takes a
  more southerly direction and empties itself into the Yangtsze-kiang at
  Han-kow, "the mouth of the Han." Here it is only 200 ft. wide, while
  higher up it widens to 2600 ft. It is navigable by steamers for 300 m.
  The summer high-water line is for a great part of its course, from
  I-ch'eng Hien to Han-kow, above the level of its banks. Near
  Sien-t'ao-chên the elevation of the plain above low water is no more
  than 1 ft., and in summer the river rises about 26 ft. above its
  lowest level. To protect themselves against inundations the natives
  have here, as elsewhere, thrown up high embankments on both sides of
  the river, but at a distance from the natural banks of about 50 to 100
  ft. This intervening space is flooded every year, and by the action of
  the water new layers of sand and soil are deposited every summer, thus
  strengthening the embankments from season to season.

  The Hwai-ho is a large river of east central China flowing between the
  Hwang-ho and the Yangtsze-kiang. The Hwai-ho and its numerous
  affluents (it is said to have 72 tributaries) rise in Ho-nan. The main
  river flows through the centre of Ngan-hui, in which province it
  receives from the N.W. the Sha-ho, Fei-ho and other important
  affluents. Formerly it received through the Sha-ho part of the waters
  of the Hwang-ho. The Hwai-ho flows into the Hungtso lake, through
  which it feeds the Grand Canal, not far from the old course of the
  Hwang-ho, and probably at one time joined that river not far from its
  mouth. It has a length of about 800 m. and is navigable from the point
  where it leaves the hill country of Ho-nan to Lake Hungtso. It is
  subject to violent floods, which inundate the surrounding country for
  a distance of 10 to 20 m. Many of its tributaries are also navigable
  for considerable distances.

    Grand Canal.

  Next in importance to the Yangtsze-kiang as a water highway is the
  Yun-ho, or, as it is generally known in Europe, the Grand Canal. This
  magnificent artificial river reaches from Hang-chow Fu in the province
  of Cheh-kiang to Tientsin in Chih-li, where it unites with the Peiho,
  and thus may be said to extend to Tung-chow in the neighbourhood of
  Peking. According to the itineraries published by Père Gandar, the
  total length of the canal is 3630 li, or about 1200 m. A rough
  measurement, taking account only of the main bends of the canal, makes
  its length 850 m. After leaving Hang-chow the canal passes round the
  eastern border of the Tai-hu or Great Lake, surrounding in its course
  the beautiful city of Su-chow, and then trends in a generally
  north-westerly direction through the fertile districts of Kiang-su as
  far as Chin-kiang on the Yangtsze-kiang. In this, the southern
  section, the slope is gentle and water is plentiful (from 7 ft. at low
  water to 11 ft., and occasionally 13 ft. at high water). Between
  Su-chow and Chin-kiang the canal is often over 100 ft. wide, and its
  sides are in many places faced with stone. It is spanned by fine stone
  bridges, and near its banks are many memorial arches and lofty
  pagodas. In the central portion of the canal, that is between
  Chin-kiang and Tsing-kiang-pu, at which latter place it crosses the
  dry channel which marks the course of the Yellow river before 1852,
  the current is strong and difficult to ascend in the upward (northern)
  journey. This part of the canal skirts several lakes and is fed by the
  Hwai-ho as it issues from the Hungtso lake. The country lying west of
  the canal is higher than its bed; while the country east is lower than
  the canal. The two regions are known respectively as Shang-ho (above
  the river) and Ssia-ho (below the river). Waste weirs opening on the
  Ssia-ho (one of the great rice-producing areas of China) discharge the
  surplus water in flood seasons. The northern and considerably the
  longest section of the canal extends from the old bed of the Yellow
  river to Tientsin. It largely utilizes existing rivers and follows
  their original windings. Between Tsing-kiang-pu and the present course
  of the Yellow river the canal trends N.N.W., skirting the highlands of
  Shan-tung. In this region it passes through a series of lagoons, which
  in summer form one lake--Chow-yang. North of that lake on the east
  bank of the canal, is the city of Tsi-ning-chow. About 25 m. N. of
  that city the highest level of the canal is reached at the town of Nan
  Wang. Here the river Wen enters the canal from the east, and about 30
  m. farther N. the Yellow river is reached. On the west side of the
  canal, at the point where the Yellow river now cuts across it, there
  is laid down in Chinese maps of the 18th century a dry channel which
  is described as being that once followed by the Yellow river, i.e.
  before it took the channel it abandoned in 1851-1853. The passage of
  the Yellow river to the part of the canal lying north of that stream
  is difficult, and can only be effected at certain levels of the
  river. Frequently the waters of the river are either too low or the
  current is too strong to permit a passage. Leaving this point the
  canal passes through a well-wooded and hilly country west of
  Tung-p'ing Chow and east of Tung-ch'ang Fu. At Lin-ching Chow it is
  joined at right angles by the Wei river in the midst of the city. Up
  to this point, i.e. from Tsing-kiang-pu to Lin-ching Chow, a distance
  of over 300 m., navigation is difficult and the water-supply often
  insufficient. The differences of level, 20 to 30 ft., are provided for
  by barrages over which the boats--having discharged their cargo--are
  hauled by windlasses. Below the junction with the Wei the canal
  borrows the channel of the river and again becomes easily navigable.
  Crossing the frontier into Chih-li, between Te Chow and Tsang Chow,
  which it passes to the west, it joins the Peiho at Tientsin, after
  having received the waters of the Keto river in the neighbourhood of
  Tsing Hien.[3]

  The most ancient part of the canal is the section between the Yangtsze
  and the Hwai-ho. This part is thought, on the strength of a passage in
  one of the books of Confucius, to have been built c. 486 B.C. It was
  repaired and enlarged in the 3rd century A.D. The southern part,
  between the Yangtsze and Hang-chow, was built early in the 7th century
  A.D. The northern part is stated to have been constructed in the three
  years 1280-1283. The northern portion of the canal is now of little
  use as a means of communication between north and south.[4] It is
  badly built, neglected and charged with the mud-laden waters of the
  Yellow river. The "tribute fleet" bearing rice to Peking still uses
  this route; but the rice is now largely forwarded by sea. The central
  and southern portions of the canal are very largely used.

  The Peiho (length about 350 m.) is of importance as being the high
  waterway to Peking. Taking its rise in the Si-shan, or Western
  Mountains, beyond Peking, it passes the city of T'sung-chow, the port
  of Peking, and Tientsin, where it meets the waters of the Hun-ho and
  empties itself into the gulf of Chih-li at the village of Taku. The
  Peiho is navigable for small steamers as far as Tientsin during the
  greater part of the year, but from the end of November to the
  beginning of March it is frozen up.

    The Si-kiang.

  In the southern provinces the Si-kiang, or Western river, is the most
  considerable. It has a length of over 1000 m. This river takes its
  rise in the prefecture of Kwang-nan Fu in Yun-nan, whence it reaches
  the frontier of Kwang-si at a distance of about 90 li from its source.
  Then trending in a north-easterly direction it forms the boundary
  between the two provinces for about 150 li. From this point it takes a
  generally south-easterly course, passing the cities of Tsien Chow,
  Fung-e Chow, Shang-lin Hien, Lung-ngan Hien, Yung-kang Chow and
  Nan-ning Fu to Yung-shan Hien. Here it makes a bend to the north-east,
  and continues this general direction as far as Sin-chow Fu, a distance
  of 800 li, where it meets and joins the waters of the Kien-kiang from
  the north. Its course is then easterly, and after passing Wu-chow Fu
  it crosses the frontier into Kwang-tung. In this part of its course it
  flows through a gorge 3 m. long and in places but 270 yds. in width.
  Both above and below this gorge it is 1 m. wide. Some 30 m. above
  Canton it divides into two main and several small branches. The
  northern branch, called Chu-kiang, or Pearl river, flows past Fat-shan
  and Canton and reaches the sea through the estuary called the Bocca
  Tigris or Bogue, at the mouth of which is the island of Hong-Kong. The
  southern branch, which retains the name of Si-kiang, reaches the sea
  west of Macao. Near the head of its delta the Si-kiang receives the
  Pei-kiang, a considerable river which flows through Kwang-tung in a
  general N. to S. direction. Like the Yangtsze-kiang the Si-kiang is
  known by various names in different parts of its course. From its
  source to Nan-ning Fu in Kwang-si it is called the Si-yang-kiang, or
  river of the Western Ocean; from Nan-ning Fu to Sin-chow Fu it is
  known as the Yu-kiang, or the Bending river; and over the remainder of
  its course it is recognized by the name of the Si-kiang, or Western
  river. The Si-kiang is navigable as far as Shao-king, 130 m., for
  vessels not drawing more than 15 ft. of water, and vessels of a light
  draught may easily reach Wu-chow Fu, in Kwang-si, which is situated 75
  m. farther up. In winter the navigation is difficult above Wu-chow Fu.
  Above that place there is a rapid at low water, but navigation is
  possible to beyond Nan-ning Fu.

  Lakes.--There are numerous lakes in the central provinces of China.
  The largest of these is the Tung-t'ing in Hu-nan, which, according to
  the Chinese geographers, is upwards of 800 li, or 266 m., in
  circumference. In native gazetteers its various portions are known
  under distinct names; thus it is said to include the Ts'ing-ts'ao, or
  Green Grass Lake; the Ung, or Venerable Lake; the Chih-sha, or Red
  Sand Lake; the Hwang-yih, or Imperial Post-house Lake; the Ngan-nan,
  or Peaceful Southern Lake; and the Ta-tung, or Great Deep Lake. In
  ancient times it went by the name of the Kiu-kiang Hu, or Lake of the
  Nine Rivers, from the fact that nine rivers flowed into it. Its chief
  affluents are the Siang-kiang, which rises in the highlands in the
  north of Kwang-si and flows in a general N.N.E. direction, and the
  Yuen-kiang, which flows N. and then E. from the eastern border of
  Kwei-chow. The lake is connected with the Yangtsze-kiang by two
  canals, the Taping and the Yochow Fu. In summer it is fed by the
  overflow from the Yangtsze-kiang; in winter it pours its waters into
  that river through the Yochow Fu canal. During the winter and spring
  the water of the lake is so low that the shallow portions become
  islands, separated by rivers such as the Siang and Yuen, and
  numberless streams; but in summer, owing to the rise in the waters of
  the Yangtsze-kiang, the whole basin of the lake is filled. It is then
  about 75 m. long and 60 m. broad. About 180 m. E. of the Tung-t'ing
  lake is the Poyang lake, which occupies the low-lying part of the
  province of Kiang-si, and is connected with the Yangtsze by the Hu-kow
  canal. The Poyang lake is also subject to a wide difference between
  high and low water, but not quite to the same extent as the Tung-t'ing
  lake, and its landmarks are more distinctly defined. It is about 90 m.
  long by 20 broad. The T'ai lake, in the neighbourhood of Su-chow Fu,
  is also celebrated for its size and the beauty of its surroundings. It
  is about 150 m. in circumference, and is dotted over with islands, on
  which are built temples for the devotees of religion, and
  summer-houses for the votaries of pleasure from the rich and
  voluptuous cities of Hang-chow and Su-chow. The boundary line between
  the provinces of Cheh-kiang and Kiang-su crosses its blue waters, and
  its shores are divided among thirteen prefectures. Besides these lakes
  there are, among others, two in Yun-nan, the Kun-yang-hai (Tien-chi)
  near Yun-nan Fu, which is 40 m. long and is connected with the
  Yangtsze-kiang by the Pu-to river, and the Erh-hai (Urh-hai) to the
  east of the city of Tali.

  The Great Wall.--Along the northern provinces of Chih-li, Shan-si,
  Shen-si and Kan-suh, over 22° of longitude (98° to 120° E.), stretches
  the Great Wall of China, built to defend the country against foreign
  aggression. It was begun in the 3rd century B.C., was repaired in the
  15th century, and in the 16th century was extended by 300 m. Following
  the windings the wall is 1500 m. long. Starting near the seashore[5]
  at Shan-hai-kwan on the gulf of Liao-tung, where the Chinese and
  Manchurian frontiers meet, it goes eastward past Peking (which is
  about 35 m. to the south) and then trends S. and E. across Shan-si to
  the Hwang-ho. From the neighbourhood of Peking to the Hwang-ho there
  is an inner and an outer wall. The outer (northern) wall passes
  through Kalgan, thus guarding the pass into Mongolia. A branch wall
  separates the greater part of the western frontier of Chih-li from
  Shan-si. West of the Hwang-ho the Great Wall forms the northern
  frontier of Shen-si, and west of Shen-si it keeps near the northern
  frontier of Kan-suh, following for some distance in that province the
  north bank of the Hwang-ho. It ends at Kiayu-kwan (98° 14'E.) just
  west of Su-chow. This part of the wall was built to protect the one
  main artery leading from central Asia to China through Kan-suh and
  Shen-si by the valley of the Wei-ho, tributary of the Hwang-ho. There
  is a branch wall in Kan-suh running west and south to protect the
  Tibetan frontier. The height of the wall is generally from 20 to 30
  ft., and at intervals of some 200 yds. are towers about 40 ft. high.
  Its base is from 15 to 25 ft. thick and its summit 12 ft. wide. The
  wall is carried over valleys and mountains, and in places is over 4000
  ft. above sea-level. Military posts are still maintained at the chief
  gates or passes--at Shan-hai-kwan, the Kalgan pass, the Yenmun pass
  (at the N. of Shan-si) and the Kaiyu pass in the extreme west, through
  which runs the caravan route to Barkal in Turkestan. Colonel A.W.S.
  Wingate, who in the opening years of the 20th century visited the
  Great Wall at over twenty places widely apart and gathered many
  descriptions of it in other places, states that its position is
  wrongly shown "on the maps of the day" (1907) in a number of places;
  while in others it had ceased to exist, "the only places where it
  forms a substantial boundary being in the valley bottoms, on the
  passes and where it crosses main routes. These remarks apply with
  particular force to the branch running south-west from the Nan-k'ow
  pass and forming the boundary of Chih-li and Shan-si provinces." In
  Colonel Wingate's opinion the wall was originally built by degrees and
  in sections, not of hewn stone, but of round boulders and earth, the
  different sections being repaired as they fell into ruin. "Only in the
  valley bottoms and on the passes was it composed of masonry or
  brickwork. The Mings rebuilt of solid masonry all those sections
  through which led a likely road for invading Tatars to follow, or
  where it could be seen at a distance from the sky-line." The building
  of the wall "was a sufficiently simple affair," not to be compared
  with the task of building the pyramids of Egypt.[6]

  Climate.--The climate over so vast an area as China necessarily
  varies greatly. The southern parts of Yun-nan, Kwang-si and Kwang-tung
  (including the city of Canton) lie within the tropics. The northern
  zone (in which lies Peking) by contrast has a climate which resembles
  that of northern Europe, with winters of Arctic severity. The central
  zone (in which Shanghai is situated) has a generally temperate
  climate. But over both northern and central China the influence of the
  great plateau of Mongolia tends to establish uniform conditions
  unusual in so large an area. The prevailing winds during summer--the
  rainy season--are south-easterly, caused by heat and the ascending
  current of air over the sandy deserts of central Asia, thus drawing in
  a current from the Pacific Ocean. In the winter the converse takes
  place, and the prevailing winds, descending from the Mongolian
  plateau, are north and north-west, and are cold and dry. From October
  to May the climate of central China is bracing and enjoyable. The
  rainfall is moderate and regular.

  In northern China the inequalities both of temperature and rainfall
  are greater than in the central provinces. In the province of Chih-li,
  for example, the heat of summer is as intense as is the cold of
  winter. In summer the rains often render the plain swampy, while the
  dry persistent westerly winds of spring create dust storms
  (experienced in Peking from March to June). The rainfall is, however,
  uncertain, and thus the harvests are precarious. The provinces of
  Shan-tung and Shan-si are peculiarly liable to prolonged periods of
  drought, with consequent severe famines such as that of 1877-1878,
  when many millions died. In these regions the air is generally
  extremely dry, and the daily variations of temperature consequent on
  excessive radiation are much greater than farther south.

  Accurate statistics both of heat and rainfall are available from a few
  stations only. The rainfall on the southern coasts is said to be about
  100 in. yearly; at Peking the rainfall is about 24 in. a year. In the
  coast regions the temperatures of Peking, Shanghai and Canton may be
  taken as typical of those of the northern, central and southern zones.
  In Peking (39° N.) the mean annual temperature is about 53° F., the
  mean for January 23°, for July 79°. In Shanghai (31° 11' N.)[7] the
  mean annual temperature is 59°, the mean for January 36.2°, for July
  80.4°. In Canton (23° 15' N.) the mean annual temperature is 70°, the
  mean for January 54°, for July 82°. The range of temperature, even
  within the tropics, is noteworthy. At Peking and Tientsin the
  thermometer in winter falls sometimes to 5° below zero and rises in
  summer to 105° (at Taku 107° has been recorded); in Shanghai in winter
  the thermometer falls to 18° and in summer rises to 102°. In Canton
  frost is said to have been recorded, but according to the China Sea
  Directory the extreme range is from 38° to 100°.[8] The climate of
  Shanghai, which resembles, but is not so good as, that of the
  Yangtsze-kiang valley generally, is fairly healthy, but there is an
  almost constant excess of moisture. The summer months, July to
  September, are very hot, while snow usually falls in December and
  January.

  At Canton and along the south coast the hot season corresponds with
  the S.W. monsoon; the cool season--mid October to end of April--with
  the N.E. monsoon. Farther north, at Shanghai, the S.W. monsoon is
  sufficiently felt to make the prevailing wind in summer southerly.

  Provinces.--China proper is divided into the following provinces:
  Cheh-kiang, Chih-li, Fu-kien, Ngan-hui (An-hui), Ho-nan, Hu-nan,
  Hu-peh, Kan-suh, Kiang-si, Kiang-su, Kwang-si, Kwang-tung, Kwei-chow,
  Shan-si, Shan-tung, Shen-si, Sze-ch'uen and Yun-nan. See the separate
  notices of each province and the article on Shêng-king, the southern
  province of Manchuria.    (X.)

  Geology.

  The Palaeozoic formations of China, excepting only the upper part of
  the Carboniferous system, are marine, while the Mesozoic and Tertiary
  deposits are estuarine and freshwater or else of terrestrial origin.
  From the close of the Palaeozoic period down to the present day the
  greater part of the empire has been dry land, and it is only in the
  southern portion of Tibet and in the western Tian Shan that any
  evidence of a Mesozoic sea has yet been found. The geological sequence
  may be summarized as follows:--

  Archean.--Gneiss, crystalline schists, phyllites, crystalline
  limestones. Exposed in Liao-tung, Shan-tung, Shan-si, northern Chih-li
  and in the axis of the mountain ranges, e.g. the Kuen-lun and the
  ranges of southern China.

  Sinian.--Sandstones, quartzites, limestones. Sometimes rests
  unconformably upon the folded rocks of the Archaen system; but
  sometimes, according to Lóczy, there is no unconformity. Covers a
  large area in the northern part of China proper; absent in the eastern
  Kuen-lun; occurs again in the ranges of S.E. China. In Liao-tung
  Cambrian fossils have been found near the summit of the series; they
  belong to the oldest fauna known upon the earth, the fauna of the
  Olenellus zone. It is, however, not improbable that in many places
  beds of considerably later date have been included in the Sinian
  system.

  Ordovician.--Ordovician fossils have been found in the Lung-shan,
  Kiang-su (about 50 m. east of Nan-king), in the south-west of
  Cheh-kiang and in the south-east of Yun-nan. Ordovician beds probably
  occur also in the Kuen-lun.

  Silurian.--Limestones and slates with Silurian corals and other
  fossils have been found in Sze-ch'uen.

  Devonian.--Found in Kan-suh and in the Tsing-ling-shan, but becomes
  much more important in southern China. Occurs also on the south of the
  Tian-shan, in the Altyn-tagh, the Nan-shan and the western Kuen-lun.

  Carboniferous.--Covers a large area in northern China, in the
  plateau of Shen-si and Shan-si, extending westwards in tongues between
  the folds of the Kuen-lun. In this region it consists of a lower
  series of limestones and an upper series of sandstones with seams of
  coal, which may perhaps be in part of Permian age. This is probably
  the most extensive coalfield in the world.

  In south China the whole series consists chiefly of limestones, and
  the coal seams are comparatively unimportant. Carboniferous beds are
  also found in the Tian-shan, the Nan-shan, Kan-suh, on the southern
  borders of the Gobi, &c.

  Mesozoic.--Marine Triassic beds containing fossils similar to those
  of the German Muschelkalk have been found by Lóczy near Chung-tien, on
  the eastern border of the Tibetan plateau. Elsewhere, however, the
  Mesozoic is represented chiefly by a red sandstone, which covers the
  greater part of Sze-ch'uen and fills also a number of troughs amongst
  the older beds of southern China. No marine fossils are found in this
  sandstone, but remains of plants are numerous, and these belong to the
  Rhaetic, Lias and Lower Oolite. No Cretaceous beds are known in China
  excepting in S. Tibet (on the shores of the Tengri-nor) and in the
  western portion of the Tian-shan.

  Cainozoic and Recent.--No marine deposits of this age are known.
  Although the loess of the great plain and the sand of the desert are
  still in process of formation, the accumulation of these deposits
  probably began in the Tertiary period.

  Volcanic Rocks.--Amongst the Archean rocks granitic and other
  intrusions are abundant, but of more modern volcanic activity the
  remains are comparatively scanty. In south China there is no evidence
  of Tertiary or Post-Tertiary volcanoes, but groups of volcanic cones
  occur in the great plain of north China. In the Liao-tung and
  Shan-tung peninsulas there are basaltic plateaus, and similar
  outpourings occur upon the borders of Mongolia. All these outbursts
  appear to be of Tertiary or later data.

  Loess.--One of the most characteristic deposits of China is the
  loess, which not merely imparts to north China the physical character
  of the scenery, but also determines the agricultural products, the
  transport, and general economic life of the people of that part of the
  country. It is peculiar to north China and it is not found south of
  the Yangtsze. The loess is a solid but friable earth of
  brownish-yellow colour, and when triturated with water is not unlike
  loam, but differs from the latter by its highly porous and tubular
  structure. The loess soil is extremely favourable to agriculture. (See
  LOESS and infra, § Agriculture.)

  The loess is called by the Chinese Hwang-t'u, or yellow earth, and
  it has been suggested that the imperial title Hwang-ti, Yellow
  Emperor or Ruler of the Yellow, had its origin in the fact that the
  emperor is lord of the loess or yellow earth.

    Structure.

  Structurally, China proper may be divided into two regions, separated
  from each other by the folded range of the Tsing-ling-shan, which is a
  continuation of the folded belt of the Kuen-lun. North of this chain
  the Palaeozoic beds are in general nearly horizontal, and the
  limestones and sandstones of the Sinian and Carboniferous systems form
  an extensive plateau which rises abruptly from the western margin of
  the great plain of northern China. The plateau is deeply carved by the
  rivers which flow through it; and the strata are often faulted, but
  they are never sharply folded. South of the Tsing-ling-shan, on the
  other hand, the Palaeozoic beds are thrown into a series of folds
  running from W. 30° S. to E. 30° N., which form the hilly region of
  southern China. Towards Tongking these folds probably bend southwards
  and join the folds of Further India. Amongst these folded beds lie
  trough-like depressions filled with the Mesozoic red sandstone which
  lies unconformably upon the Palaeozoic rocks.

  The present configuration of China is due, in a very considerable
  degree, to faulting. The abrupt eastern edge of the Shan-si plateau,
  where it overlooks the great plain, is a line of fault, or rather a
  series of step faults, with the downthrow on the east; and von
  Richthofen has shown reason to believe that this line of faulting is
  continued far to the south and to the north. He believed also that the
  present coast-line of China has to a large extent been determined by
  similar faults with their downthrow on the east.

  Concerning the structure of the central Asian plateau our knowledge is
  still incomplete. The great mountain chains, the Kuen-lun, the
  Nan-shan and the Tian-shan, are belts of folding; but the Mongolian
  Altai is a horst--a strip of ancient rock lying between two faults and
  with a depressed area upon each side. In the whole of this northern
  region faulting, as distinct from folding, seems to have played an
  important part. Along the southern margin of the Tian-shan there is a
  remarkable trough-like depression which appears to lie between two
  approximately parallel faults.    (P. LA.)

  Fauna.

  China lies within two zoological provinces or regions, its southern
  portion forming a part of the Oriental or Indian region and having a
  fauna close akin to that of the western Himalaya, Burma and Siam,
  whereas the districts to the north of Fu-chow and south of the
  Yangtsze-kiang lie within the eastern Holarctic (Palaearctic) region,
  or rather the southern fringe of the latter, which has been separated
  as the Mediterranean transitional region. Of these two divisions of
  the Chinese fauna, the northern one is the more interesting, since it
  forms the chief home of a number of peculiar generic types, and also
  includes types represented elsewhere at the present day (exclusive in
  one case of Japan) only in North America. The occurrence in China of
  these types common to the eastern and western hemispheres is important
  in regard to the former existence of a land-bridge between Eastern
  Asia and North America by way of Bering Strait.

  Of the types peculiar to China and North America the alligator of the
  Yangtsze-kiang is generically identical with its Mississippi relative.
  The spoon-beaked sturgeon of the Yangtsze and Hwang-ho is, however,
  now separated, as Psephurus, from the closely allied American
  Polyodon. Among insectivorous mammals the Chinese and Japanese
  shrew-moles, respectively forming the genera Uropsilus and
  Urotrichus, are represented in America by Neurotrichus. The giant
  salamander of the rivers of China and Japan and the Chinese mandarin
  duck are by some included in the same genera as their American
  representatives, while by others they are referred to genera apart.
  Whichever view we take does not alter their close relationship. One
  wapiti occurs on the Tibetan frontier, and others in Manchuria and
  Amurland.

  As regards mammals and birds, the largest number of generic and
  specific types peculiar to China are met with in Sze-ch'uen. Foremost
  among these is the great panda (Aeluropus melanoleucus),
  representing a genus by itself, probably related to bears and to the
  true panda (Aelurus), the latter of which has a local race in
  Sze-ch'uen. Next come the snub-nosed monkeys (Rhinopithecus), of
  which the typical species is a native of Sze-ch'uen, while a second is
  found on the upper Mekong, and a third in the mountains of central
  China. In the Insectivora the swimming-shrew (Nectogale) forms
  another generic type peculiar to Sze-ch'uen, which is also the sole
  habitat of the mole-like Scaptochirus, of Uropsilus, near akin to
  the Japanese Urotrichus, of Scaptonyx, which connects the latter
  with the moles (Talpa), and of Neotetracus, a relative of the
  Malay rat-shrews (Gymnura). Here also may be mentioned the
  raccoon-dog, forming the subgenus Nyctereutes, common to China and
  Japan. The Himalayan black and the Malay bear have each a local race
  in Sze-ch'uen, where the long-haired Fontanier's cat (Felis tristis)
  and the Tibet cat (F. scripta) connect Indo-Malay species with the
  American ocelots, while the bay cat (F. temmincki), a Malay type, is
  represented by local forms in Sze-ch'uen and Fu-chow. The Amurland
  leopard and Manchurian tiger likewise constitute local races of their
  respective species.

  Among ruminants, the Sze-ch'uen takin represents a genus (Budorcas)
  found elsewhere in the Mishmi Hills and Bhutan, while serows
  (Nemorhaedus) and gorals (Urotragus), allied to Himalayan and
  Burmo-Malay types, abound. The Himalayan fauna is also represented by
  a race of the Kashmir hangul deer. Of other deer, the original habitat
  of Père David's milu (Elaphurus), formerly kept in the Peking park,
  is unknown. The sika group, which is peculiar to China, Japan and
  Formosa, is represented by Cervus hortulorum in Manchuria and the
  smaller C. manchuricus and sika in that province and the Yangtsze
  valley; while musk-deer (Moschus) abound in Kan-suh and Sze-ch'uen.
  The small water-deer (Hydropotes or Hydrelaphus) of the Yangtsze
  valley represents a genus peculiar to the country, as do the three
  species of tufted deer (Elaphodus), whose united range extends from
  Sze-ch'uen to Ning-po and I-ch'ang. Muntjacs (Cervulus) are likewise
  very characteristic of the country, to which the white-tailed,
  plum-coloured species, like the Tenasserim C. crinifrons, are
  peculiar. The occurrence of races of the wapiti in Manchuria and
  Amurland has been already mentioned.

  To refer in detail to the numerous forms of rodents inhabiting China
  is impossible here, and it must suffice to mention that the
  flying-squirrels (Pteromys) are represented by a large and handsome
  species in Sze-ch'uen, where is also found the largest kind of
  bamboo-rat (Rhizomys), the other species of which are natives of the
  western Himalaya and the Malay countries. Dwarf hamsters of the genus
  Cricetulus are natives of the northern provinces. In the extreme
  south, in Hai-nan, is found a gibbon ape (Hylobates), while langur
  (Semnopithecus) and macaque monkeys (Macacus) likewise occur in
  the south, one of the latter also inhabiting Sze-ch'uen.

  To give an adequate account of Chinese ornithology would require space
  many times the length of this article. The gorgeous mandarin duck
  (Aix galerita) has already been mentioned among generic types common
  to America. In marked distinction to this is the number of species of
  pheasants inhabiting north-western China, whence the group ranges into
  the eastern Himalaya. Among Chinese species are two of the three
  species of blood-pheasants (Ithagenes), two tragopans (Ceriornis
  or Tragopan), a monal (Lophophorus), three out of the five species
  of Crossoptilum, the other two being Tibetan, two kinds of
  Pucrasia, the gorgeous golden and Amherst's pheasants alone
  representing the genus Chrysolophus, together with several species
  of the typical genus Phasianus, among which it will suffice to
  mention the long-tailed P. reevesi. The Himalayan bamboo-partridges
  (Bambusicola) have also a Chinese representative. The only other
  large bird that can be mentioned is the Manchurian crane, misnamed
  Grus japonensis. Pigeons include the peculiar subgenus
  Dendroteron; while among smaller birds, warblers, tits and finches,
  all of an Eastern Holarctic type, constitute the common element in the
  avifauna. Little would be gained by naming the genera, peculiar or
  otherwise.

  China has a few peculiar types of freshwater tortoises, among which
  Ocadia sinensis represents a genus unknown elsewhere, while there is
  also a species of the otherwise Indian genus Damonia. The Chinese
  alligator, Alligator sinensis, has been already mentioned. Among
  lizards, the genera Plestiodon, Mabuia, Tachydromus and Gecko,
  of which the two latter are very characteristic of the Oriental
  region, range through China to Japan; and among snakes, the Malay
  python (Python reticulatus) is likewise Chinese. The giant
  salamander (Cryptobranchus, or Megalobatrachus, maximus)
  represents, as mentioned above, a type found elsewhere only in North
  America, while Hynobius and Onychodactylus are peculiar generic
  types of salamanders. Among fishes, it must suffice to refer to the
  spoon-beaked sturgeon (Psephurus) of the Yangtsze-kiang, and the
  numerous members of the carp family to be found in the rivers of
  China. From these native carp the Chinese have produced two highly
  coloured breeds, the goldfish and the telescope-eyed carp.

  Among the invertebrates special mention may be made of the great
  ailanthus silk-moth (Attacus cynthia) of northern China and Japan,
  and also of its Manchurian relative A. pernyi; while it may be added
  that the domesticated "silkworm" (Bombyx mori) is generally believed
  to be of Chinese origin, although this is not certain. Very
  characteristic of China is the abundance of handsomely coloured
  swallow-tailed butterflies of the family Papilionidae. The Chinese
  kermes (Coccus sinensis) is also worth mention, on account of it
  yielding wax. As regards land and freshwater snails, China exhibits a
  marked similarity to Siam and India; the two groups in which the
  Chinese province displays decided peculiarities of its own being
  Helix (in the wider sense) and Clausilia. There are, for instance,
  nearly half a score of subgenera of Helix whose headquarters are
  Chinese, while among these, forms with sinistral shells are relatively
  common. The genus Clausilia is remarkable on account of attaining a
  second centre of development in China, where its finest species,
  referable to several subgenera, occur. Carnivorous molluscs include a
  peculiar slug (Rathouisia) and the shelled genera Ennea and
  Streptaxis. In the western provinces species of Buliminus are
  abundant, and in the operculate group Heudeia forms a peculiar type
  akin to Helicina, but with internal foldings to the shell.

  Lastly, it has to be mentioned that the waters of the Yangtsze-kiang
  are inhabited by a small jelly-fish, or medusa (Limnocodium kawaii),
  near akin to L. sowerbii, which was discovered in the hot-house
  tanks in the Botanical Gardens in the Regent's Park, London, but whose
  real home is probably the Amazon.    (R. L.*)

  Flora.

  The vegetation of China is extremely rich, no fewer than 9000 species
  of flowering plants having been already enumerated, of which nearly a
  half are endemic or not known to occur elsewhere. Whole provinces are
  as yet only partially explored; and the total flora is estimated to
  comprise ultimately 12,000 species. China is the continuation eastward
  of the great Himalayan mass, numerous chains of mountains running
  irregularly to the sea-board. Thousands of deep narrow valleys form
  isolated areas, where peculiar species have been evolved. Though the
  greater part of the country has long ago been cleared of its primeval
  forest and submitted to agriculture, there still remain some extensive
  forests and countless small woods in which the original flora is well
  preserved. Towards the north the vegetation is palaearctic, and
  differs little in its composition from that of Germany, Russia and
  Siberia. The flora of the western and central provinces is closely
  allied to that of the Himalayas and of Japan; while towards the south
  this element mingles with species derived from Indo-China, Burma and
  the plain of Hindostan. Above a certain elevation, decreasing with the
  latitude, but approximately 6000 ft. in the Yangtsze basin, there
  exist in districts remote from the traffic of the great rivers,
  extensive forests of conifers, like those of Central Europe in
  character, but with different species of silver fir, larch, spruce and
  Cembran pine. Below this altitude the woods are composed of deciduous
  and evergreen broad-leafed trees and shrubs, mingled together in a
  profusion of species. Pure broad-leafed forests of one or two species
  are rare, though small woods of oak, of alder and of birch are
  occasionally seen. There is nothing comparable to the extensive beech
  forests of Europe, the two species of Chinese beech being sporadic and
  rare trees. The heaths, Calluna and Erica, which cover great
  tracts of barren sandy land in Europe, are absent from China, where
  the Ericaceous vegetation is made up of numerous species of
  Rhododendron, which often cover vast areas on the mountain slopes.
  Pine forests occur at low levels, but are always small in extent.

  The appearance of the vegetation is very different from that of the
  United States, which is comparable to China in situation and in
  extent. Though there are 60 species of oak in China, many with
  magnificent foliage and remarkable cupules, the red oaks, so
  characteristic of North America, with their bristle-pointed leaves,
  turning beautiful colours in autumn, are quite unknown. The great
  coniferous forest west of the Rocky Mountains has no analogue in
  China, the gigantic and preponderant Douglas fir being absent, while
  the giant Sequoias are represented only on a small scale by
  Cryptomeria, which attains half their height.

  Certain remnants of the Miocene flora which have disappeared from
  Europe are still conspicuous and similar in North America and China.
  In both regions there are several species of Magnolia; one species
  each of Liriodendron, Liquidambar and Sassafras; and curious
  genera like Nyssa, Hamamelis, Decumaria and Gymnocladus. The
  swamps of the south-eastern states, in which still survive the once
  widely spread Taxodium or deciduous cypress, are imitated on a small
  scale by the marshy banks of rivers near Canton, which are clad with
  Glyptostrobus, the "water-pine" of the Chinese. Pseudolarix,
  Cunninghamia and Keteleeria are coniferous genera peculiar to
  China, which have become extinct elsewhere. The most remarkable tree
  in China, the only surviving link between ferns and conifers, Ginkgo
  biloba, has only been seen in temple gardens, but may occur wild in
  some of the unexplored provinces. Its leaves have been found in the
  tertiary beds of the Isle of Mull.

  Most of the European genera occur in China, though there are curious
  exceptions like the plane tree, and the whole family of the
  Cistaceae, which characterize the peculiar maquis of the
  Mediterranean region. The rhododendrons, of which only four species
  are European, have their headquarters in China, numbering 130 species,
  varying in size from miniature shrubs 6 in. high to tall trees.
  Lysimachia, Primula, Clematis, Rubus and Gentiana have each a
  hundred species, extraordinary variable in habit, in size and in
  colour of the flowers. The ferns are equally polymorphic, numbering
  400 species, and including strange genera like Archangiopteris and
  Cheiropteris, unknown elsewhere. About 40 species of bamboos have
  been distinguished; the one with a square stem from Fu-kien is the
  most curious.

  With a great wealth of beautiful flowering shrubs and herbaceous
  plants, the Chinese at an early period became skilled horticulturists.
  The emperor Wu Ti established in 111 B.C. a botanic garden at
  Ch'ang-an, into which rare plants were introduced from the west and
  south. Many garden varieties originated in China. The chrysanthemum,
  perhaps the most variable of cultivated flowers, is derived from two
  wild species (small and inconspicuous plants), and is mentioned in the
  ancient Chinese classics. We owe to the skill of the Chinese many
  kinds of roses, lilies, camellias and peonies; and have introduced
  from China some of the most ornamental plants in our gardens, as
  Wistaria, Diervilla, Kerria, Incarvillea, Deutzia, Primula sinensis,
  Hemerocallis, &c. The peach and several oranges are natives of China.
  The varnish tree (Rhus vernicifera), from which lacquer is obtained;
  the tallow tree (Sapium sebiferum); the white mulberry, on which
  silkworms are fed; and the tea plant were all first utilized by the
  Chinese. The Chinese have also numerous medicinal plants, of which
  ginseng and rhubarb are best known. Nearly all our vegetables and
  cereals have their counterpart in China, where there are numerous
  varieties not yet introduced into Europe, though some, like the Soy
  bean, are now attracting great attention.    (A. HE.*)

  AUTHORITIES.--L. Richard (S.J.), Géographie de l'empire de Chine
  (Shanghai, 1905)--the first systematic account of China as a whole in
  modern times. The work, enlarged, revised and translated into English
  by M. Kennelly (S.J.), was reissued in 1908 as Richard's
  Comprehensive Geography of the Chinese Empire and Dependencies. This
  is the standard authority for the country and gives for each section
  bibliographical notes. It has been used in the revision of the present
  article. Valuable information on northern, central and western China
  is furnished by Col. C.C. Manifold and Col. A.W.S. Wingate in the
  Geog. Journ. vol. xxiii. (1904) and vol. xxix. (1907). Consult also
  Marshall Broomhall (ed.), The Chinese Empire: a General and
  Missionary Survey (London, 1907); B. Willis, E. Blackwelder and
  others, Research in China, vol. i. part i. "Descriptive Topography
  and Geology," part ii. "Petrography and Zoology," and Atlas
  (Washington, Carnegie Institution, 1906-1907); Forbes and Hemsley,
  "Enumeration of Chinese Plants," in Journ. Linnean Soc. (Bot.),
  vols. xxiii. and xxxvi.; Bretschneider, History of European Botanical
  Discoveries in China; E. Tiessen, China das Reich der achtzehn
  Provinzen, Teil i. "Die allgemeine Geographie des Landes" (Berlin,
  1902); and The China Sea Directory (published by the British
  Admiralty), a valuable guide to the coasts: vol. ii. (5th ed., 1906)
  deals with Hong-Kong and places south thereof, vol. iii. (4th ed.,
  1906, supp. 1907) with the rest of the Chinese coast; vol. i. (5th
  ed., 1906) treats of the islands and straits in the S.W. approach to
  the China Sea. Much of China has not been surveyed, but considerable
  progress has been made since 1900. The Atlas of the Chinese Empire
  (London, 1908), a good general atlas, which, however, has no hill
  shading, gives maps of each province on the scale of 1:3,000,000. The
  preface contains a list of the best regional maps.

  The Journal af the China Branch of the Royal Asiatic Society
  contains papers on all subjects relating to China.

II. THE PEOPLE

  Population.

China is noted for the density of its population, but no accurate statistics are forthcoming.
The province of Shan-tung is reputed to have a population of 680 per sq. m. The provinces of
central China, in the basin of the Yangtsze-kiang--namely Sze-ch'uen, Hu-peh, Ngan-hui, Kiang-su
and Cheh-kiang--contain probably a third of thes total population, the density of the people
in these provinces being represented as from 490 to 310 per sq. m. Ho-nan, which belongs partly
to the basin of the Hwang-ho and partly to that of the Yangtsze-kiang, as well as the S.E.
coast provinces of Fu-kien and Kwang-tung, are also densely peopled, Ho-nan being credited
with 520 persons per sq. m., Fu-kien with 490 and Kwang-tung with about 320.

  The Chinese government prints from time to time in the Peking
  Gazette returns of the population made by the various provincial
  authorities. The method of numeration is to count the households, and
  from that to make a return of the total inhabitants of each province.
  There would be no great difficulty in obtaining fairly accurate
  returns if sufficient care were taken. It does not appear, however,
  that much care is taken. Mr E.H. Parker published in the Statistical
  Society's Journal for March 1899 tables translated from Chinese
  records, giving the population from year to year between 1651 and
  1860. These tables show a gradual rise, though with many fluctuations,
  up till 1851, when the total population is stated to be 432 millions.
  From that point it decreases till 1860, when it is put down at only
  261 millions. The Chinese Imperial Customs put the total population of
  the empire in 1906 at 438,214,000 and that of China proper at
  407,253,000. It has been held by several inquirers that these figures
  are gross over-estimates. Mr Rockhill, American minister at Peking
  (1905-1909), after careful inquiry[9] concluded that the inhabitants
  of China proper did not exceed, in 1904, 270,000,000. Other competent
  authorities are inclined to accept the round figure of 400,000,000 as
  nearer the accurate number. Eleven cities were credited in 1908 with
  between 500,000 and 1,000,000 inhabitants each, and smaller cities are
  very numerous, but the population is predominantly rural. In addition
  to the Chinese the population includes a number of aboriginal races
  such as the Lolos (q.v.), the Miaotsze (q.v.), the Ikias of Kwei-chow
  and Kwang-si, the Hakka, found in the south-east provinces, and the
  Hoklos of Kwang-tung province.[10] The Manchus resident in China are
  estimated to number 4,000,000. According to the Imperial Customs
  authorities, the number of foreigners resident in China in 1908 was
  69,852. Of these 44,143 were Japanese, 9520 Russian, 9043 British,
  3637 German, 3545 American, 3353 Portuguese, 2029 French, 554 Italian
  and 282 Belgian.

    Emigration.

  The Chinese are a colonizing race, and in Manchuria, Mongolia and
  Turkestan they have brought several districts under cultivation. In
  the regions where they settle they become the dominant race--thus
  southern Manchuria now differs little from a province of China proper.
  In Indo-China, the Malay Peninsula and throughout the Far East Chinese
  are numerous as farmers, labourers and traders; in some places, such
  as Singapore, Chinese are among the principal merchants. This
  colonizing spirit is probably due more to the enterprise of the people
  than to the density of the population. There were Chinese settlements
  at places on the east coast of Africa before the 10th century A.D.
  Following the discovery of gold in California there was from 1850
  onwards a large emigration of Chinese to that state and to other parts
  of America. But in 1879 Chinese exclusion acts were passed by the
  United States, an example followed by Australia, where Chinese
  immigration was also held to be a public danger. Canada also adopted
  the policy of excluding Chinese, but not before there had been a
  considerable immigration into British Columbia. Two factors, a racial
  and an economic, are at work to bring about these measures of
  exclusion. As indentured labourers Chinese have been employed in the
  West Indies, South America and other places (see COOLIE).

  In addition to several million Chinese settlers in Manchuria, and
  smaller numbers in Mongolia, Turkestan and Tibet, it was estimated in
  1908 that there were over 9,000,000 Chinese resident beyond the
  empire. Of these 2,250,000 were in Formosa, which for long formed a
  part of the empire, and over 6,000,000 in neighbouring regions of Asia
  and in Pacific Islands. In the West Indies (chiefly Cuba) the number
  of Chinese was estimated at 100,000, in South America (Brazil, Peru
  and Chile) at 72,000, in the United States at 150,000, in Canada at
  12,000, and in Australia and New Zealand at 35,000. There are
  comparatively few Chinese in Japan (if Formosa be excepted) and Korea.
  The number is given in 1908 as 17,000 in Japan and 11,000 in Korea.

Social Life.

The awakening of the East which has followed the Russo-Japanese War of 1904-5 has affected
China also. It is too soon to say how far the influx of European ideas will be able to modify
the immemorial customs and traditions of perhaps the most conservative people in the world;
but the process has begun, and this fact makes it difficult to give a picture of Chinese habits
and customs which shall be more than historical or provisional. Moreover, the difficulty of
presenting a picture which shall be true of China as a whole is enhanced by the different characteristics
observable in various regions of so vast a country. The Chinese themselves, until the material
superiority of Western civilization forced them to a certain degree to conform to its standards,
looked down from the height of their superior culture with contempt on the "Western barbarians."
Nor was their attitude wholly without justification. Their civilization was already old at
a time when Britain and Germany were peopled by half-naked barbarians, and the philosophical
and ethical principles on which it was based remain, to all appearances, as firmly rooted as
ever. That these principles have, on the whole, helped to create a national type of a very
high order few Europeans who know the Chinese well would deny. The Chinese are naturally reserved,
earnest and good-natured; for the occasional outbursts of ferocious violence, notably against
foreign settlements, are no index to the national character. There is a national proverb that
"the men of the Four Seas are all brothers," and even strangers can travel through the country
without meeting with rudeness, much less outrage. If the Chinese character is inferior to the
European, this inferiority lies in the fact that the Chinaman's whole philosophy of life disinclines
him to change or to energetic action. He is industrious; but his industry is normally along
the lines marked out by authority and tradition. He is brave; but his courage does not naturally
seek an outlet in war. The jealously exclusive empire, into which in the 19th century the nations
of the West forced an entrance, was organized for peace; the arts of war had been all but forgotten,
and soldiers were of all classes the most despised.

  The whole social and political organization of the Chinese is based,
  in a far more real sense than in the West, on the family. The supreme
  duty is that of the child to its parent; on this the whole Chinese
  moral system is built up. Filial piety, according to the teaching of
  Confucius, is the very foundation of society; the nation itself is but
  one great family, and the authority of the government itself is but an
  extension of the paternal authority, to which all its children are
  bound to yield implicit obedience. The western idea of the liberty and
  dignity of the individual, as distinct from the community to which he
  belongs, is wholly alien to the Chinese mind. The political unit in
  China is not the individual but the family, and the father of the
  family is supposed to be responsible for the qualities and views of
  all his kin. He is rewarded for their virtues, punished for their
  faults; the deserts of a son ennoble the father and all his ancestors,
  and conversely his crimes disgrace them.

  An outcome of this principle is the extraordinary importance in China
  of funeral rites, especially in the case of the father. The eldest
  son, now head of the family, or, failing him, his first-born or
  adopted son, fixes one of the three souls of the dead in the tablet
  commemorating his virtues, burns incense to his shade, and supplies
  him with paper money and paper representations of everything (clothes,
  servants, horses) that he may require in his journey to the other
  world. Mourning lasts for three years, during which the mourners wear
  white garments and abstain from meat, wine and public gatherings.
  Custom, too, dictates that wherever the Chinaman may die he must be
  brought back for burial to the place of his birth; one of the objects
  of the friendly societies is to provide funds to charter ships to
  transport home the bodies of those who have died abroad. Annually, in
  May, the white-clad people stream to the graves and mortuary temples
  with flowers, fruit and other offerings for the dead. Christian
  missionaries have found in this ancestor worship the most serious
  obstacle to the spread of a religion which teaches that the convert
  must, if need be, despise his father and his mother and follow Christ.

  The same elaborate ceremonialism that characterizes the Chinese
  funeral customs is found also in their marriage rites and the rules of
  their social intercourse generally. Confucius is reported to have said
  that "all virtues have their source in etiquette," and the due
  observance of the "ceremonial" (li) in the fulfilling of social
  duties is that which, in Chinese opinion, distinguishes civilized from
  barbarous peoples. The Board of Rites, one of the departments of the
  central government, exists for the purpose of giving decisions in
  matters of etiquette and ceremony. As to marriage, the rule that the
  individual counts for nothing obtains here in its fullest
  significance. The breeding of sons to carry on the ancestral cult is a
  matter of prime importance, and the marriage of a young man is
  arranged at the earliest possible age. The bride and bridegroom have
  little voice in the matter, the match being arranged by the parents
  of the parties; the lifting of the bride's veil, so that the
  bridegroom may see her face, is the very last act of the long and
  complicated ceremony.

  In the traditional Chinese social system four classes are
  distinguished: the literary, the agricultural, the artisan and the
  trading class. Hereditary nobility, in the European sense, scarcely
  exists, and the possession of an hereditary title gives in itself no
  special privileges. Official position is more highly esteemed than
  birth and the bureaucracy takes the place of the aristocracy in the
  west. There are, nevertheless, besides personal decorations for merit,
  such as the yellow jacket, five hereditary rewards for merit; these
  last only for a fixed number of lives. A few Chinese families,
  however, enjoy hereditary titles in the full sense, the chief among
  them being the Holy Duke of Yen (the descendant of Confucius). The
  Imperial Clansmen consist of those who trace their descent direct from
  the founder of the Manchu dynasty, and are distinguished by the
  privilege of wearing a yellow girdle; collateral relatives of the
  imperial house wear a red girdle. Twelve degrees of nobility (in a
  descending scale as one generation succeeds another) are conferred on
  the descendants of every emperor; in the thirteenth generation the
  descendants of emperors are merged in the general population, save
  that they retain the yellow girdle. The heads of eight houses, the
  "Iron-capped" (or helmeted) princes, maintain their titles in
  perpetuity by rule of primogeniture in virtue of having helped the
  Manchu in the conquest of China. Imperial princes apart, the highest
  class is that forming the civil service. (See also § Government and
  Administration.) The peasant class forms the bulk of the population.
  The majority of Chinese are small landowners; their standard of living
  is very low in comparison with European standards. This is in part due
  to the system of land tenure. A parent cannot, even if he wished to do
  so, leave all his land to one son. There must be substantially an
  equal division, the will of the father notwithstanding. As early
  marriages and large families are the rule, this process of continual
  division and subdivision has brought things down to the irreducible
  minimum in many places. Small patches of one-tenth or even
  one-twentieth of an acre are to be found as the estate of an
  individual landowner, and the vast majority of holdings run between
  one and three acres. With three acres a family is deemed very
  comfortable, and the possession of ten acres means luxury.

  The only class which at all resembles the territorial magnates of
  other countries is the class of retired officials. The wealth of an
  official is not infrequently invested in land, and consequently there
  are in most provinces several families with a country seat and the
  usual insignia of local rank and influence. On the decease of the
  heads or founders of such families it is considered dignified for the
  sons to live together, sharing the rents and profits in common. This
  is sometimes continued for several generations, until the country seat
  becomes an agglomeration of households and the family a sort of clan.
  A family of this kind, with literary traditions, and with the means to
  educate the young men, is constantly sending its scions into the
  public service. These in turn bring their earnings to swell the common
  funds, while the rank and dignity which they may earn add to the
  importance and standing of the group as a whole. The members of this
  class are usually termed the literati or gentry.

  The complex character of the Chinese is shown in various ways. Side by
  side with the reverence of ancestors the law recognizes the right of
  the parent to sell his offspring into slavery and among the poor this
  is not an uncommon practice, though in comparison with the total
  population the number of slaves is few. The kidnapping of children for
  sale as slaves is carried on, but there is no slave raiding. There are
  more female than male slaves; the descendants of male slaves acquire
  freedom in the fifth generation. While every Chinese man is anxious to
  have male children, girls are often considered superfluous.

  The position of women is one of distinct inferiority; a woman is
  always subject to the men of her family--before marriage to her
  father, during marriage to her husband, in widowhood to her son; these
  states being known as "the three obediences." Sons who do not,
  however, honour their mothers outrage public opinion. Polygamy is
  tolerated, secondary wives being sometimes provided by the first wife
  when she is growing old. Secondary wives are subordinate to first
  wives. A wife may be divorced for any one of seven reasons. The sale
  of wives is practised, but is not recognized by law. Women of the
  upper classes are treated with much respect. The home of a Chinese man
  is often in reality ruled by his mother, or by his wife as she
  approaches old age, a state held in veneration. Chinese women
  frequently prove of excellent business capacity, and those of high
  rank--as the recent history of China has conspicuously
  proved--exercise considerable influence on public affairs.

  Deforming the feet of girls by binding and stopping their growth has
  been common for centuries. The tottering walk of the Chinese lady
  resulting from this deformation of the feet is the admiration of her
  husband and friends. Foot-binding is practised by rich and poor in all
  parts of the country, but is not universal. In southern and western
  China Hakka women and certain others never have their feet bound. It
  has been noted that officials (who all serve on the itinerary system)
  take for secondary wives natural-footed women, who are frequently
  slaves.[11] Every child is one at birth, and two on what Europeans
  call its first birthday, the period of gestation counting as one year.

  In their social intercourse the Chinese are polite and ceremonious;
  they do not shake hands or kiss, but prostrations (kotowing),
  salutations with joined hands and congratulations are common. They
  have no weekly day of rest, but keep many festivals, the most
  important being that of New Year's Day. Debts are supposed to be paid
  before New Year's Day begins and for the occasion new clothes are
  bought. Other notable holidays are the Festival of the First Full
  Moon, the Feast of Lanterns and the Festival of the Dragon Boat. A
  feature of the festivals is the employment of thousands of lanterns
  made of paper, covered with landscapes and other scenes in gorgeous
  colours. Of outdoor sports kite-flying is the most popular and is
  engaged in by adults; shuttle-cock is also a favourite game, while
  cards and dominoes are indoor amusements. The theatre and marionette
  shows are largely patronized. The habit of opium smoking is referred
  to elsewhere; tobacco smoking is general among both sexes.

  Except in their head-dress and their shoes little distinction is made
  between the costumes of men and women.[12] Both sexes wear a long
  loose jacket or robe which fits closely round the neck and has wide
  sleeves, and wide short trousers. Over the robe shorter jackets--often
  sleeveless--are worn, according to the weather. For winter wear the
  jackets are wadded, and a Chinaman will speak of "a three, four or six
  coat cold day." A man's robe is generally longer than that of a woman.
  Petticoats are worn by ladies on ceremonial occasions and the long
  robe is removed when in the house. "It is considered very unwomanly
  not to wear trousers, and very indelicate for a man not to have skirts
  to his coat." No Chinese woman ever bares any part of her body in
  public--even the hands are concealed in the large sleeves--and the
  evening dress of European ladies is considered indelicate; but Hakka
  women move about freely without shoes or stockings. A Chinese man
  will, however, in warm weather often strip naked to the waist. Coolies
  frequently go bare-legged; they use sandals made of rope and possess
  rain-coats made of palm leaves. The garments of the poorer classes are
  made of cotton, generally dyed blue. Wealthy people have their clothes
  made of silk. Skirts and jackets are elaborately embroidered. Costly
  furs and fur-lined clothes are much prized, and many wealthy Chinese
  have fine collections of furs. Certain colours may only be used with
  official permission as denoting a definite rank or distinction, e.g.
  the yellow jacket. The colours used harmonize--the contrasts in colour
  seen in the clothes of Europeans is avoided. Dark purple over blue are
  usual colour combinations. The mourning colour is white. Common shoes
  are made of cotton or silk and have thick felt soles; all officials
  wear boots of satin into which is thrust the pipe or the fan--the
  latter carried equally by men and women. The fan is otherwise stuck at
  the back of the neck, or attached to the girdle, which may also hold
  the purse, watch, snuff-box and a pair of chop-sticks.

  Formerly Chinese men let their hair grow sufficiently long to gather
  it in a knot at the top; on the conquest of the country by the Manchu
  they were compelled to adopt the queue or pigtail, which is often
  artificially lengthened by the employment of silk thread, usually
  black in colour. The front part of the head is shaved. As no Chinese
  dress their own hair, barbers are numerous and do a thriving trade.
  Women do not shave the head nor adopt the queue. Men wear in general a
  close-fitting cap, and the peasants large straw hats. Circular caps,
  larger at the crown than round the head and with an outward slope are
  worn in winter by mandarins, conical straw hats in summer. Women have
  elaborate head ornaments, decking their hair with artificial flowers,
  butterflies made of jade, gold pins and pearls. The faces of Chinese
  ladies are habitually rouged, their eyebrows painted. Pearl or bead
  necklaces are worn both by men and women. Officials and men of leisure
  let one or two finger nails grow long and protect them with a metal
  case.

  The staple food of the majority of the Chinese in the south and
  central provinces is rice; in the northern provinces millet as well as
  rice is much eaten. In separate bowls are placed morsels of pork,
  fish, chicken, vegetables and other relishes. Rice-flour, bean-meal,
  macaroni, and shell fish are all largely used. Flour balls cooked in
  sugar are esteemed. Beef is never eaten, but Mahommedans eat mutton,
  and there is hardly any limit to the things the Chinese use as food.
  In Canton dogs which have been specially fed are an article of diet.
  Eggs are preserved for years in a solution of salt, lime and wood-ash,
  or in spirits made from rice. Condiments are highly prized, as are
  also preserved fruits. Special Chinese dishes are soups made from
  sea-slugs and a glutinous substance found in certain birds' nests,
  ducks' tongues, sharks' fins, the brains of chickens and of fish, the
  sinews of deer and of whales, fish with pickled fir-tree cones, and
  roots of the lotus lily. A kind of beer brewed from rice is a usual
  drink; samshu is a spirit distilled from the same grain and at
  dinners is served hot in small bowls. Excellent native wines are
  made. The Chinese are, however, abstemious with regard to alcoholic
  liquors. Water is drunk hot by the very poor, as a substitute for tea.
  Tea is drunk before and after meals in cups without handle or saucer;
  the cups are always provided with a cover. Two substantial meals are
  taken during the day--luncheon and dinner; the last named at varying
  hours from four till seven o'clock. At dinner a rich man will offer
  his guest twenty-four or more dishes (always a multiple of 4), four to
  six dishes being served at a time. Food is eaten from bowls and with
  chop-sticks (q.v.) and little porcelain spoons. Men dine by themselves
  when any guests are present; dinner parties are sometimes given by
  ladies to ladies. Chinese cookery is excellent; in the culinary art
  the Chinese are reputed to be second only to the French.

  Ethnologically the Chinese are classed among the Mongolian races (in
  which division the Manchus are also included), although they present
  many marked contrasts to the Mongols. The Tatars, Tibetans, Burmese,
  Shans, Manchu and other races--including the Arab and Japanese--have
  mingled with the indigenous population to form the Chinese type, while
  aboriginal tribes still resist the pressure of absorption by the
  dominant race (see ante, Population). The Chinese are in fact
  ethnically a very mixed people, and the pure Mongol type is uncommon
  among them. Moreover, natives of different provinces still present
  striking contrasts one to another, and their common culture is
  probably the strongest national link. By some authorities it is held
  that the parent stock of the Chinese came from the north-west, beyond
  the alluvial plain; others hold that it was indigenous in eastern
  China. Notwithstanding the marked differences between the inhabitants
  of different provinces and even between those living in the same
  province, certain features are common to the race. "The stature is
  below the average and seldom exceeds 5 ft. 4 in., except in the North.
  The head is normally brachycephalic or round horizontally, and the
  forehead low and narrow. The face is round, the mouth large, and the
  chin small and receding. The cheek-bones are prominent, the eyes
  almond-shaped, oblique upwards and outwards, and the hair coarse, lank
  and invariably black. The beard appears late in life, and remains
  generally scanty. The eyebrows are straight and the iris of the eye is
  black. The nose is generally short, broad and flat. The hands and feet
  are disproportionately small, and the body early inclines to obesity.
  The complexion varies from an almost pale-yellow to a dark-brown,
  without any red or ruddy tinge. Yellow, however, predominates."[13]

  A few words may be added concerning the Manchus, who are the ruling
  race in China. Their ethnic affinities are not precisely known, but
  they may be classed among the Ural-Altaic tribes, although the term
  Ural-Altaic (q.v.) denotes a linguistic rather than a racial group. By
  some authorities they are called Tung-tatze, i.e. Eastern Tatars---the
  Tatars of to-day being of true Mongol descent. Manchu is the name
  adopted in the 13th century by one of several tribes which led a
  nomadic life in Manchuria and were known collectively in the 11th
  century as Nüchihs. Some authorities regard the Khitans (whence the
  European form Cathay), who in the 9th and 10th centuries dwelt in the
  upper Liao region, as the ancestors of this race. It was not until the
  16th century that the people became known generally as Manchus and
  obtained possession of the whole of the country now bearing their name
  (see MANCHURIA). They had then a considerable mixture of Chinese and
  Korean blood, but had developed a distinct nationality and kept their
  ancient Ural-Altaic language. In China the Manchus retained their
  separate nationality and semi-military organization. It was not until
  the early years of the 20th century that steps were officially taken
  to obliterate the distinction between the two races. The Manchus are a
  more robust race than the inhabitants of central and southern China,
  but resemble those of northern China save that their eyes are
  horizontally set. They are a lively and enterprising people, but have
  not in general the intellectual or business ability of the Chinese.
  They are courteous in their relations with strangers. The common
  people are frugal and industrious. The Manchu family is generally
  large. The women's feet are unbound; they twist their hair round a
  silver bangle placed cross-wise on the top of the head. The Manchus
  have no literature of their own, but as the language of the court
  Manchu has been extensively studied in China.

  AUTHORITIES.--Sir John F. Davies, China (2 vols., London, 1857); É.
  Réclus, The Universal Geography, vol. vii. (Eng. trans. ed. by E.G.
  Ravenstein and A.H. Keane); É. and O. Réclus, L'Empire du milieu
  (Paris, 1902); Sir R.K. Douglas, Society in China (London, 1895); J.
  Doolittle, Social Life of the Chinese (2 vols., New York, 1867);
  H.A. Giles, China and the Chinese (1902); E. Bard, Les Chinois chez
  eux (Paris, 1900); A.G. Jones, Desultory Notes on Chinese Etiquette
  (Shanghai, 1906); Mrs Archibald Little, Intimate China (London,
  1899) and The Land of the Blue Gown (London, 1902); E.H. Parker,
  John Chinaman and a Few Others (London, 1901); J. Dyer-Ball, Things
  Chinese (Shanghai, 1903); Cheng Kitung, The Chinese Painted by
  Themselves (Eng. trans. by J. Millington, London, 1885); L. Richard,
  Comprehensive Geography of the Chinese Empire (Shanghai, 1908). (X.)

Religion.

  The ancient faith.

The earliest traces of religious thought and practice in China point to a simple monotheism.
There was a Divine Ruler of the universe, abiding on high, beyond the ken of man. This Power
was not regarded as the Creator of the human race, but as a Supreme Being to whom wickedness
was abhorrent and virtuous conduct a source of joy, and who dealt out rewards and punishments
with unerring justice, claiming neither love nor reverence from mankind. If a man did his duty
towards his neighbour, he might pass his whole time on earth oblivious of the fact that such
a Power was in existence; unless perchance he wished to obtain some good or attain some end,
in which case he might seek to propitiate Him by sacrifice and prayer. There was no Devil to
tempt man astray, and to rejoice in his fall; neither was there any belief that righteous behaviour
in this world would lead at death to absorption in the Deity. To God, understood in this sense,
the people gave the name Tien, which in the colloquial language was used of the sky; and when,
in the first stages of the written character, it became necessary to express the idea of Tien,
they did not attempt any vague picture of the heavens, but set down the rude outline of a man.
Perhaps about this period the title Shang Ti, or Supreme Ruler, came into vogue as synonymous
with Tien. But although the two terms were synonyms, and both may be equally rendered by "God,"
there is nevertheless an important distinction to be observed, much as though Tien and Shang
Ti were two Persons in one substance. Tien is far more an abstract Being, while Shang Ti partakes
rather of the nature of a personal God, whose anthropomorphic nature is much more strongly
accentuated. Shang Ti is described as walking and talking, as enjoying the flavour of sacrifices,
as pleased with music and dancing in his honour, and even as taking sides in warfare; whereas
Tien holds aloof, wrapped in an impenetrable majesty, an ignotum pro mirifico. So much for
religion in primeval days, gathered scrap by scrap from many sources; for nothing like a history
of religion is to be found in Chinese literature.

Gradually to this monotheistic conception was added a worship of the sun, moon and constellations,
of the five planets, and of such noticeable individual stars as (e.g.) Canopus, which is now
looked upon as the home of the God of Longevity. Earth, too--Mother Earth--came in for her
share of worship, indicated especially by the God of the Soil, and further distributed among
rivers and hills. Wind, rain, heat, cold, thunder and lightning, as each became objects of
desire or aversion, were invested with the attributes of deities. The various parts of the
house--door, kitchen-stove, courtyard, &c.--were also conceived of as sheltering some spirit
whose influence might be benign or the reverse. The spirits of the land and of grain came to
mean one's country, the commonwealth, the state; and the sacrifices of these spirits by the
emperor formed a public announcement of his accession, or of his continued right to the throne.
Side by side with such sacrificial rites was the worship of ancestors, stretching so far back
that its origin is not discernible in such historical documents as we possess. In early times
only the emperor, or the feudal nobles, or certain high officials, could sacrifice to the spirits
of nature; the common people sacrificed to their own ancestors and to the spirits of their
own homes. Ancestral worship in China has always been, and still is, worship in the strict
sense of the term. It is not a memorial service in simple honour of the dead; but sacrifices
are offered, and the whole ceremonial is performed that the spirits of former ancestors may
be induced to extend their protection to the living and secure to them as many as possible
of the good things of this world.

For Confucianism, which cannot, strictly speaking, be classed as a religion, see CONFUCIUS.

    Taoism.

  Around the scanty utterances of Lao Tz[)u] or Lao-tsze (q.v.; see also
  § Chinese Literature, §§ Philosophy) an attempt was made by later
  writers to weave a scheme of thought which should serve to satisfy the
  cravings of mortals for some definite solution of the puzzle of life.
  Lao Tz[)u] himself had enunciated a criterion which he called Tao,
  or the Way, from which is derived the word Taoism; and in his usual
  paradoxical style he had asserted that the secret of this Way, which
  was at the beginning apparently nothing more than a line of right
  conduct, could not possibly be imparted, even by those who understood
  it. These
  transcendental notions were entirely corrupted at a very early date by
  the introduction of belief in an elixir of life, and later still by
  the practice of alchemistic experiments. Opposed by Buddhism, which
  next laid a claim for a share in the profits of popular patronage,
  Taoism rapidly underwent a radical transformation. It became a
  religion, borrowing certain ceremonial, vestments, liturgies, the idea
  of a hell, arrangement of temples, &c., from its rival; which rival
  was not slow in returning the compliment. At the present day there is not
  much to choose between the two religions, which flourish peaceably
  together. As to their temples, priests and ceremonial, it takes an
  expert to distinguish one from the other.

    Buddhism.

  There is no trustworthy information as to the exact date at which
  Buddhism first reached China. It is related that the emperor Ming Ti
  (A.D. 58-76) had a dream in which a golden man appeared to him, and
  this mysterious visitant was interpreted by the emperor's brother to
  be none other than Sh[=a]kyamuni Buddha, the far-famed divinity of the
  West. This shows that Buddhism must then have been known to the
  Chinese, at any rate by hearsay. The earliest alleged appearance of
  Buddhism in China dates from 217 B.C., when certain Shamans who came
  to proselytize were seized and thrown into prison. They escaped
  through the miraculous intervention of a golden man, who came to them
  in the middle of the night and opened their prison doors. Hsü Kuan, a
  writer of the Sung dynasty, quotes in his Tung Chai Chi passages to
  support the view that Buddhism was known in China some centuries
  before the reign of Ming Ti; among others, the following from the Sui
  Shu Ching Chi Chih: "These Buddhist writings had long been circulated
  far and wide, but disappeared with the advent of the Ch'in dynasty,"
  under which (see § Chinese Literature, §§ History) occurred the
  Burning of the Books. It is, however, convenient to begin with the
  alleged dream of Ming Ti, as it was only subsequent to that date that
  Buddhism became a recognized religion of the people. It is certain
  that in A.D. 65 a mission of eighteen members was despatched to Khotan
  to make inquiries on the subject, and that in 67 the mission returned,
  bringing Buddhist writings and images, and accompanied by an Indian
  priest, Kashiapmadanga, who was followed shortly afterwards by another
  priest, Gobharana. A temple was built for these two at Lo-yang, then
  the capital of China, and they settled down to the work of translating
  portions of the Buddhist scriptures into Chinese; but all that now
  remains of their work is the S[=u]tra of Forty-two Sections,
  translated by Kashiapmadanga. During the next two hundred and fifty
  years an unbroken line of foreign priests came to China to continue
  the task of translation, and to assist in spreading the faith. Such
  work was indeed entirely in their hands, for until the 4th century the
  Chinese people were prohibited from taking orders as priests; but by
  that date Buddhism had taken a firm hold upon the masses, and many
  Chinese priests were attracted towards India, despite the long and
  dangerous journey, partly to visit the birthplace of the creed and to
  see with their own eyes the scenes which had so fired their
  imaginations, and partly in the hope of adding to the store of books
  and images already available in China (see § Chinese Literature, §§
  Geography and Travel). Still, the train of Indian missionaries,
  moving in the opposite direction, did not cease. In 401, Kumarajiva,
  the nineteenth of the Western Patriarchs and translator of the Diamond
  S[=u]tra, finally took up his residence at the court of the soi-disant
  emperor, Yao Hsing. In 405 he became State Preceptor and dictated his
  commentaries on the sacred books of Buddhism to some eight hundred
  priests, besides composing a sh[=a]stra on Reality and Semblance.
  Dying in 417, his body was cremated, as is still usual with priests,
  but his tongue, which had done such eminent service during life,
  remained unharmed in the midst of the flames. In the year 520
  B[=o]dhidharma, or Ta-mo, as he is affectionately known to the
  Chinese, being also called the White Buddha, reached Canton, bringing
  with him the sacred bowl of the Buddhist Patriarchate, of which he was
  the last representative in the west and the first to hold office in
  the east. Summoned to Nanking, he offended the emperor by asserting
  that real merit lay, not in works, but solely in purity and wisdom
  combined. He therefore retired to Lo-yang, crossing the swollen waters
  of the Yangtsze on a reed, a feat which has ever since had a great
  fascination for Chinese painters and poets. There he spent the rest of
  his life, teaching that religion was not to be learnt from books, but
  that man should seek and find the Buddha in his own heart. Thus
  Buddhism gradually made its way. It had to meet first of all the
  bitter hostility of the Taoists; and secondly, the fitful patronage
  and opposition of the court. Several emperors and empresses were
  infatuated supporters of the faith; one even went so far as to take
  vows and lead the life of an ascetic, further insisting that to render
  full obedience to the Buddhist commandment, "Thou shalt not kill," the
  sacrificial animals were to be made of dough. Other emperors,
  instigated by Confucian advisers, went to the opposite extreme of
  persecution, closed all religious houses, confiscated their property,
  and forced the priests and nuns to return to the world. From about the
  11th century onwards Buddhism has enjoyed comparative immunity from
  attack or restriction, and it now covers the Chinese empire from end
  to end. The form under which it appears in China is to some extent of
  local growth; that is to say, the Chinese have added and subtracted
  not a little to and from the parent stock. The cleavage which took
  place under Kanishka, ruler of the Indo-Scythian empire, about the 1st
  century A.D., divided Buddhism into the Mah[=a]y[=a]na, or Greater
  Vehicle, and the Hin[=a]y[=a]na, as it is somewhat contemptuously
  styled, or Lesser Vehicle. The latter was the nearer of the two to the
  Buddhism of Sh[=a]kyamuni, and exhibits rather the mystic and esoteric
  sides of the faith. The former, which spread northwards and on to
  Nepaul, Tibet, China, Mongolia and Japan, leaving southern India,
  Burma and Siam to its rival, began early to lean towards the
  deification of Buddha as a personal Saviour. New Buddhas and
  B[=o]dhisatvas were added, and new worlds were provided for them to
  live in; in China, especially, there was an enormous extension of the
  mythological element. In fact, the Mah[=a]y[=a]na system of Buddhism,
  inspired, as has been observed, by a progressive spirit, but without
  contradicting the inner significance of the teachings of Buddha,
  broadened its scope and assimilated other religio-philosophical
  beliefs, whenever this could be done to the advantage of those who
  came within its influence. Such is the form of this religion which
  prevails in China, of which, however, the Chinese layman understands
  nothing. He goes to a temple, worships the gods with prostrations,
  lighted candles, incense, &c., to secure his particular ends at the
  moment; he may even listen to a service chanted in a foreign tongue
  and just as incomprehensible to the priests as to himself. He pays his
  fees and departs, absolutely ignorant of the history or dogmas of the
  religion to which he looks for salvation in a future state. All such
  knowledge, and there is now not much of it, is confined to a few of
  the more cultured priests.

    Mardaism.

  The 7th century seems to have been notable in the religious history of
  China. Early in that century, Mazdaism, or the religion of Zoroaster,
  based upon the worship of fire, was introduced into China, and in 621
  the first temple under that denomination was built at Ch'ang-an in
  Shensi, then the capital. But the harvest of converts was
  insignificant; the religion failed to hold its ground, and in the 9th
  century disappeared altogether.

    Mahommedanism.

  Mahommedans first settled in China in the Year of the Mission, A.D.
  628, under Wahb-Abi-Kabha, a maternal uncle of Mahomet, who was sent
  with presents to the emperor. Wahb-Abi-Kabha travelled by sea to
  Canton, and thence overland to Ch'ang-an, the capital, where he was
  well received. The first mosque was built at Canton, where after
  several restorations, it still exists. Another mosque was erected in
  742; but many of the Mahommedans went to China merely as traders, and
  afterwards returned to their own country. The true stock of the
  present Chinese Mahommedans was a small army of 4000 Arab soldiers
  sent by the caliph Abu Giafar[14] in 755 to aid in putting down a
  rebellion. These soldiers had permission to settle in China, where
  they married native wives; and four centuries later, with the
  conquests of Jenghiz Khan, large numbers of Arabs penetrated into the
  empire and swelled the Mahommedan community. Its members are now
  indistinguishable from the general population; they are under no civic
  disabilities, and are free to open mosques wherever they please, so
  long as, in common with Buddhists and Taoists, they exhibit the tablet
  of the emperor's sovereignty in some conspicuous position.

    Nestorianism.

  In A.D. 631 the Nestorians sent a mission to China and introduced
  Christianity under the name of the Luminous Doctrine. In 636 they were
  allowed to settle at Ch'ang-an; and in 638 an Imperial Decree was
  issued, stating that Olopun, a Nestorian priest who is casually
  mentioned as a Persian, had presented a form of religion which his
  Majesty had carefully examined and had found to be in every way
  satisfactory, and that it would henceforth be permissible to preach
  this new doctrine within the boundaries of the empire. Further, the
  establishment of a monastery was authorized, to be served by
  twenty-one priests. For more than a century after this, Nestorian
  Christianity seems to have flourished in China. The date of the tablet seems to mark the zenith of Nestorian
  Christianity in China; after this date it began to decay. Marco Polo
  refers to it as existing in the 13th century; but then it fades out of
  sight, leaving scant traces in Chinese literature of ever having
  existed.

    Manichaeism.

  The Manichaeans, worshippers of the Chaldaean Mani or Man[=e]s, who
  died about A.D. 274, appear to have found their way to China in the
  year 694. In 719 an envoy from Tokharestan reached Ch'ang-an, bringing
  a letter to the emperor, in which a request was made that an
  astronomer who accompanied the mission might be permitted to establish
  places of worship for persons of the Manichaean faith. Subsequently, a
  number of such chapels were opened at various centres; but little is
  known of the history of this religion, which is often confounded by
  Chinese writers with Mazdeism, the fate of which it seems to have
  shared, also disappearing about the middle of the 9th century.

    Judaism.

  By "the sect of those who take out the sinew," the Chinese refer to
  the Jews and their peculiar method of preparing meat in order to make
  it kosher. Wild stories have been told of their arrival in China
  seven centuries before the Christian era, after one of the numerous
  upheavals mentioned in the Old Testament; and again, of their having
  carried the Pentateuch to China shortly after the Babylonish
  captivity, and having founded a colony in Ho-nan in A.D. 72. The Jews
  really reached China for the first time in the year A.D. 1163, and
  were permitted to open a synagogue at the modern K'ai-fêng Fu in 1164.
  There they seem to have lived peaceably, enjoying the protection of
  the authorities and making some slight efforts to spread their tenets. After this, it was generally believed that the few
  remaining stragglers, who seemed to be entirely ignorant of everything
  connected with their faith, had become merged in the ordinary
  population. A recent traveller, however, asserts that in 1909 he found
  at K'ai-fêng Fu a Jewish community, the members of which keep as much
  as possible to themselves, worshipping in secret, and preserving their
  ancient ritual and formulary.

  See H. Hackmann, Buddhism as a Religion (1910); H.A. Giles,
  Religions of Ancient China (1905); G. Smith, The Jews at
  K'ae-fung-foo (1851); Dabry de Thiersant, Le Mahométisme en Chine
  (1878); P. Havret. S.J., La Stèle chrétienne de Si-ngan-fou (1895).
      (H. A. GI.)

    Christian missions.

  [Christian missions, both Roman Catholic and Protestant, are
  established in every province in China. Freedom to embrace the
  Christian faith has been guaranteed by the Chinese government since
  1860, and as a rule the missionaries have free scope in teaching and
  preaching, though local disturbances are not infrequent. The number of
  members of the Roman Catholic Church in China was reckoned by the
  Jesuit fathers at Shanghai to be, in 1907, "about one million"; in the
  same year the Protestant societies reckoned in all 250,000 church
  members. By the Chinese, Roman Catholicism is called the "Religion of
  the Lord of Heaven"; Protestantism the "Religion of Jesus." For the
  progress and effects of Christianity in China see § History, and
  MISSIONS, § China.    ED.]

Education and the Press.

The educational system of China till nearly the close of the 19th century was confined in its
scope to the study of Chinese classics. Elementary instruction was not provided by the state.
The well-to-do engaged private tutors for their sons; the poorer boys were taught in small
schools on a voluntary basis. No curriculum was compulsory, but the books used and the programme
pursued followed a traditional rule. The boys (there were no schools for girls) began by memorizing
the classics for four or five years. Then followed letter-writing and easy composition. This
completed the education of the vast majority of the boys not intended for the public service.
The chief merit of the system was that it developed the memory and the imitative faculty. For
secondary education somewhat better provision was made, practically the only method of attaining
eminence in the state being through the schools (see § Civil Service). At prefectural cities
and provincial capitals colleges were maintained at the public expense, and at these institutions
a more or less thorough knowledge of the classics might be obtained. At the public examinations
held periodically the exercises proposed were original poems and literary essays. Three degrees
were conferred, Siu-ts'ai (budding talent), Chû-jên (promoted scholar) and Chin-shih (entered
scholar). The last degree was given to those who passed the final examination at Peking, and
the successful candidates were also called metropolitan graduates.

  The first education on western lines was given by the Roman Catholic
  missionaries. In 1852 they founded a college for the education of
  native priests; they also founded and maintained many primary and some
  higher schools--mainly if not exclusively for the benefit of their
  converts. The Protestant missions followed the example of the Roman
  Catholics, but a new departure, which has had a wide success, was
  initiated by the American Protestant missionary societies in founding
  schools--primary and higher--and colleges in which western education
  was given equally to all comers, Christian or non-Christian.
  Universities and medical schools have also been established by the
  missionary societies. They also initiated a movement for the education
  of girls and opened special schools for their instruction.

  Missionary effort apart, the first step towards western education was
  the establishment of two colleges in 1861, one at Peking, the other at
  Canton in connexion with the imperial maritime customs. These
  institutions were known as T'ung Wen Kwan, and were provided with a
  staff of foreign professors and teachers. These colleges were mainly
  schools of languages to enable young Chinese to qualify as
  interpreters in English, French, &c. Similar schools were established
  at Canton, Fuchow and one or two other places, with but indifferent
  results. A more promising plan was conceived in 1880, or thereabouts,
  by the then viceroy of Nanking, who sent a batch of thirty or forty
  students to America to receive a regular training on the understanding
  that on their return they would receive official appointments. The
  promise was not kept. A report was spread that these students were
  becoming too much Americanized. They were hastily recalled, and when
  they returned they were left in obscurity. The next step was taken by
  the viceroy Chang Chih-tung after the Chino-Japanese War of 1894-95.
  The viceroy wrote a book, China's Only Hope, which he circulated
  throughout the empire, and in which he strongly advocated a reform of
  the traditional educational system. His scheme was to make Chinese
  learning the foundation on which a western education should be
  imparted.[15] The book was one of the factors in the 1898 reform
  movement, and Chang Chih-tung's proposals were condemned when that
  movement was suppressed. But after the Boxer rising the Peking
  government adopted his views, and in 1902 regulations were issued for
  the reform of the old system of public instruction. A university on
  western lines was established in that year at Peking, the T'ung Wen
  Kwan at the capital being incorporated in it. The new educational
  movement gained enormously in strength as the result of the
  Russo-Japanese War, and in 1906 a new system, theoretically almost
  perfect, was established. The new system comprises the study of the
  Chinese language, literature and composition, modern sciences, history
  and geography, foreign languages,[16] gymnastics, drill and, in the
  higher grades, political economy, and civil and international law.

  By 1910 primary and secondary government schools and schools for
  special subjects (such as agriculture and engineering) had been
  established in considerable numbers. In every province an Imperial
  University was also established. The Imperial University at Peking now
  teaches not only languages and Chinese subjects but also law,
  chemistry, mathematics, &c. A medical school was founded at Peking in
  1906 through the energy of British Protestant missionaries, and is
  called the Union Medical College. When in 1908, the United States,
  finding that the indemnity for the Boxer outrages awarded her was
  excessive, agreed to forgo the payment of £2,500,000, China undertook
  to spend an equal amount in sending students to America.

  The general verdict of foreign observers on the working of the new
  system up to 1910 was that in many instances the teaching was
  ineffective, but there were notable exceptions. The best teachers,
  next to Europeans, were foreign or mission-trained Chinese. The
  Japanese employed as teachers were often ignorant of Chinese and were
  not as a rule very successful. (See further § History.) A remarkable
  indication of the thirst for western learning and culture was the
  translation into Chinese and their diffusion throughout the country of
  numerous foreign standard and other works, including modern fiction.

    Native press.

  The Peking Gazette, which is sometimes called the oldest paper in
  the world, is not a newspaper in the ordinary sense, but merely a
  court gazette for publishing imperial decrees and such public
  documents as the government may wish to give out. It never contains
  original articles nor any discussion of public affairs. The first
  genuine native newspaper was published at Shanghai about 1870. It was
  termed the Shen Pao or Shanghai News, and was a Chinese
  speculation under foreign protection, the first editor being an
  Englishman. It was some years before it made much headway, but success
  came, and it was followed by various imitators, some published at
  Shanghai, some at other treaty ports and at Hong-Kong. In 1910 there
  were over 200 daily, weekly or monthly journals in China. The effect
  of this mass of literature on the public mind of China is of
  first-rate importance.

  The attitude of the central government towards the native press is
  somewhat undefined. Official registration of a newspaper is required
  before postal facilities are given. There are no press laws, but as
  every official is a law unto himself in these matters, there is
  nothing to prevent him from summarily suppressing an obnoxious
  newspaper and putting the editor in prison. The emperor, among other
  reform edicts which provoked the coup d'état of 1898, declared that
  newspapers were a boon to the public and appointed one of them a
  government organ. The empress-dowager revoked this decree, and
  declared that the public discussion of affairs of state in the
  newspapers was an impertinence, and ought to be suppressed.
  Nevertheless the newspapers continued to flourish, and their outspoken
  criticism had a salutary effect on the public and on the government.
  The official classes seem to have become alarmed at the independent
  attitude of the newspapers, but instead of a campaign of suppression
  the method was adopted, about 1908, of bringing the vernacular press
  under official control. This was accomplished chiefly by the purchase
  of the newspapers by the mandarins, with the result that at the
  beginning of 1910 there was said to be hardly an independent native
  daily newspaper left in China. The use of government funds to
  subsidize or to purchase newspapers and thus to stifle or mislead
  public opinion provoked strong protests from members of the Nanking
  provincial council at its first sitting in the autumn of 1909. The
  appropriation by the Shanghai Taot'ai of moneys belonging to the
  Huangpu conservancy fund for subsidizing papers led to his impeachment
  by a censor and to the return of the moneys.[17]     (X.)

III. ECONOMICS

Agriculture and Industry.

China is pre-eminently an agricultural country. The great majority of its inhabitants are cultivators
of the soil. The holdings are in general very small, and the methods of farming primitive.
Water is abundant and irrigation common over large areas. Stock-raising, except in Sze-ch'uen
and Kwang-tung, is only practised to a small extent; there are few large herds of cattle or
flocks of sheep, nor are there any large meadows, natural or cultivated. In Sze-ch'uen yaks,
sheep and goats are reared in the mountains, and buffaloes and a fine breed of ponies on the
plateau. Cattle are extensively reared in the mountainous districts of Kwang-tung. The camel,
horse and donkey are reared in Chih-li. Forestry is likewise neglected. While the existing
forests, found mainly in high regions in the provinces of Hu-nan, Fu-kien and Kwei-chow, are
disappearing and timber has to be imported, few trees are planted. This does not apply to fruit
trees, which are grown in great variety, while horticulture is also a favourite pursuit.

The Chinese farmer, if his methods be primitive, is diligent and persevering. In the richer
and most thickly populated districts terraces are raised on the mountain sides, and even the
tops of lofty hills are cultivated. The nature of the soil and means of irrigation as well
as climate are determining factors in the nature of the crops grown; rice and cotton, for example,
are grown in the most northern as well as the most southern districts of China. This is, however,
exceptional and each climatic region has its characteristic cultures.

    Soils.

  The loess soil (see § Geology) is the chief element in determining
  the agricultural products of north China. Loess soil bears excellent
  crops, and not merely on the lower grounds, but at altitudes of 6000
  and 8000 ft. Wherever loess is found the peasant can live and thrive.
  Only one thing is essential, and that is the annual rainfall. As,
  owing to the porous nature of loess, no artificial irrigation is
  possible, if the rain fails the crops must necessarily fail. Thus
  seasons of great famine alternate with seasons of great plenty. It
  appears, also, that the soil needs little or no manuring and very
  little tillage. From its extremely friable nature it is easily broken
  up, and thus a less amount of labour is required than in other parts.
  The extreme porosity of the soil probably also accounts for the length
  of time it will go on bearing crops without becoming exhausted. The
  rainfall, penetrating deeply into the soil in the absence of
  stratification, comes into contact with the moisture retained below,
  which holds in solution whatever inorganic salts the soil may
  contain, and thus the vegetation has an indefinite store to draw
  upon.[18]

  There is no one dominant deposit in south China, where red sandstone
  and limestone formations are frequent. Cultivation here is not
  possible on the high elevations as in the north, but in the plains and
  river valleys the soil is exceedingly fertile, while the lower slopes
  of the mountains are also cultivated. In the north, moreover, but one
  crop, in general, can be raised in the year. In the centre two and
  sometimes three crops are raised yearly, and in the south, especially
  in the lower basin of the Si-kiang, three crops are normally gathered.
  In the north, too, the farmer has frequently to contend with drought
  or with rain or floods; in the central and southern regions the
  weather is more settled.

    Distribution of crops.

  In the north of China wheat, barley, millet, buckwheat and maize are
  the staple crops. Beans and peas are also cultivated. Rice thrives in
  north-east Kan-suh, in some districts of Shan-si, in the extreme south
  of Shan-tung and in parts of the Wei-ho plain in Shen-si. Cotton is
  grown in Shen-si and Shan-tung. In Kan-suh and Shen-si two crops are
  raised in favoured localities, cereals in spring and cotton or rice in
  summer. Tobacco and the poppy are also grown in several of the
  northern provinces. Rhubarb and fruit trees are largely cultivated in
  the western part of north China.

  In the central provinces tea, cotton, rice and ramie fibre are the
  chief crops. Tea is most largely cultivated in Ngan-hui, Kiang-si,
  Hu-peh, Hu-nan, Sze-ch'uen and Yun-nan. Cotton is chiefly grown in
  Kiang-su, Ngan-hui and Hu-peh. The seed is sown in May and the crops
  gathered in September. The cotton is known as white and yellow, the
  white variety being the better and the most cultivated. The poppy is
  largely cultivated and, in connexion with the silk industry, the
  mulberry tree. The mulberry is found principally in the provinces of
  Sze-ch'uen, Kiang-su and Cheh-kiang. The central provinces are also
  noted for their gum-lac, varnish and tallow trees.

  The crops of the south-eastern provinces are much the same as those of
  the central provinces, but are predominantly rice, the sugar-cane,
  ground-nuts and cinnamon. Tea is the chief crop in Fu-kien. The
  sugar-cane is principally cultivated in Kwang-tung, Fu-kien and
  Sze-ch'uen. In the south-western provinces the poppy, tea, tobacco and
  rice are the chief crops. Wheat, maize and barley are also largely
  raised.

  While rice does not, unlike tea and cotton, form the principal crop of
  any one province it is more universally cultivated than any other
  plant and forms an important item in the products of all the central
  and southern provinces. Regarding China as a whole it forms the staple
  product and food of the country. Two chief varieties are grown, that
  suited only to low-lying regions requiring ample water and the red
  rice cultivated in the uplands. Next to rice the most extensively
  cultivated plants are tea and cotton, the sugar-cane, poppy and
  bamboo. Besides the infinite variety of uses to which the wood of the
  bamboo is applied, its tender shoots and its fruit are articles of
  diet.

    Fruits.

  Fruit is extensively cultivated throughout China. In the northern
  provinces the chief fruits grown are pears, plums, apples, apricots,
  peaches, medlars, walnuts and chestnuts, and in Kan-suh and Shan-tung
  the jujube (q.v.). Strawberries are an important crop in Kan-suh. In
  Shan-si, S.W. Chih-li and Shan-tung the vine is cultivated; the grapes
  of Shan-si are reputed to produce the best wine of China. Oranges are
  also grown in favoured localities in the north. The chief fruits of
  the central and southern provinces are the orange, lichi, mango,
  persimmon, banana, vine and pineapple, but the fruits of the northern
  regions are also grown. The coco-nut and other palms flourish on the
  southern coast.

    The poppy.

  As shown above, the poppy has been grown in almost every district of
  China. In 1906 it was chiefly cultivated in the following provinces:
  Yun-nan, Kwei-chow, Sze-ch'uen, Kan-suh, Shen-si, Shan-si, Shan-tung,
  Ho-nan, Kiang-su (northern part) and Cheh-kiang. The poppy is first
  mentioned in Chinese literature in a book written in the first half of
  the 8th century A.D., and its medicinal qualities are referred to in
  the Herbalist's Treasury of 973. It was not then nor for centuries
  later grown in China for the preparation of opium.[19] There is no
  evidence to show that the Chinese ever took opium in the shape of
  pills (otherwise than medicinally). The cultivation of the poppy for
  the manufacture of opium began in China in the 17th century, but it
  was not until after 1796, when the importation of foreign opium was
  declared illegal, that the plant was cultivated on an extensive scale.
  After 1906 large areas which had been devoted to the poppy were given
  over to other crops, in consequence of the imperial edict aimed at the
  suppression of opium-smoking (see § History).

Mining.--The mineral resources of China are great, but the government has shown a marked repugnance
to allow foreigners to work mines, and the mineral wealth has been very inadequately exploited.
Mining operations are controlled by the Board of Commerce. In 1907 this board drew up regulations
respecting the constitution of mining and other companies. They contained many features against
which foreign powers protested.

    Coal.

  Coal, iron, copper and tin are the principal minerals found in China;
  there are also extensive deposits of coal and other minerals in
  Manchuria. In China proper the largest coal measures are found in
  Shan-si, Hu-nan, Kwei-chow and Sze-ch'uen. There are also important
  coalfields in Chih-li, Shan-tung, Shen-si, Ho-nan, Yun-nan, Hu-peh and
  Kwang-tung--and almost all of the seven other provinces have also coal
  measures of more or less value. The lack of transport facilities as
  well as the aversion from the employment of foreign capital has
  greatly hindered the development of mining. Numerous small mines have
  been worked for a long period by the natives in the province of
  Hu-nan. There are two principal local fields in this province, one
  lying in the basin of the Lei river and yielding anthracite, and the
  other in the basin of the Siang river yielding bituminous coal. Both
  rivers drain into the Yangtsze, and there is thus an easy outlet by
  water to Hankow. The quality of the coal, however, is inferior, as the
  stratification has been much disturbed, and the coal-seams have been
  in consequence crushed and broken. The largest coalfield in China lies
  in the province of Shan-si. Coal and iron have here been worked by the
  natives from time immemorial, but owing to the difficulty of transport
  they have attained only a limited local circulation. The whole of
  southern Shan-si, extending over 30,000 sq. m., is one vast coalfield,
  and contains, according to the estimate of Baron von Richthofen,
  enough coal to last the world at the present rate of consumption for
  several thousand years. The coal-seams, which are from 20 to 36 ft. in
  thickness, rest conformably on a substructure of limestone. The
  stratification is throughout undisturbed and practically horizontal.
  As the limestone bed is raised some 2000 ft. above the neighbouring
  plain the coal-seams crop out in all directions. Mining is thus
  carried on by adits driven into the face of the formation, rendering
  the mining of the coal extremely easy. The coalfield is divided into
  two by a mountain range of ancient granitic formation running
  north-east and south-west, termed the Ho-shan. It is of anterior date
  to the limestone and coal formations, and has not affected the
  uniformity of the stratification, but it has this peculiarity, that
  the coal on the east side is anthracite, and that on the west side is
  bituminous. A concession to work coal and iron in certain specified
  districts in this area was granted to a British company, the Peking
  Syndicate, together with the right to connect the mines by railway
  with water navigation. The syndicate built a railway in Shan-si from
  P'ingyang to Tsi-chow-fu, the centre of a vast coalfield, and
  connected with the main Peking-Hankow line; lines to serve coal mines
  have also been built in Hu-nan and other provinces. The earliest in
  date was that to the K'aip'ing collieries in the east of the province
  of Chih-li, the railway connecting the mines with the seaport of Taku.
  The coal at K'aip'ing is a soft bituminous coal with a large
  proportion of dust. The output is about 1,500,000 tons per annum. A
  mine has also been opened in the province of Hu-peh, about 60 m. below
  Hankow, and near the Yangtsze, in connexion with iron-works.

    Iron.

  Iron ore of various qualities is found almost as widely diffused as
  coal. The districts where it is most worked at present lie within the
  coalfield of Shan-si, viz. at Tsi-chow-fu and P'ing-ting-chow. The ore
  is a mixture of clay iron ore and spathic ore, together with limonite
  and hematite. It is found abundantly in irregular deposits in the Coal
  Measures, and is easily smelted by the natives in crucibles laid in
  open furnaces. This region supplies nearly the whole of north China
  with the iron required for agricultural and domestic use. The out-turn
  must be very considerable, but no data are available for forming an
  accurate estimate. The province of Sze-ch'uen also yields an abundance
  of iron ores of various kinds. They are worked by the natives in
  numerous places, but always on a small scale and for local consumption
  only. The ores occur in the Coal Measures, predominant among them
  being a clay iron ore. Hu-nan, Fu-kien, Cheh-kiang and Shan-tung all
  furnish iron ores. Iron (found in conjunction with coal) is worked in
  Manchuria.

    Copper, tin, &c.

  Copper is found chiefly in the provinces of Kwei-chow and Yun-nan,
  where a rich belt of copper-bearing ores runs east and west across
  both provinces, and including south Sze-ch'uen. The chief centres of
  production are at the cities of Tung-ch'uen-fu, Chow-t'ung and
  Ning-yuen. The mines are worked as a government monopoly, private
  mining being nominally prohibited. The output is considerable, but no
  statistics are published by government. Rich veins of copper ore are
  also worked near Kiu-kiang. Tin is mined in Yun-nan, the headquarters
  of the industry being the city of Meng-tsze, which since 1909 has been
  connected with Hanoi by railway. This is an important industry, the
  value of tin exported in 1908 being £600,000. Tin is also mined in
  Hai-nan and lead in Yun-nan. Antimony ore is exported from Hu-nan;
  petroleum is found in the upper Yangtsze region. Quicksilver is
  obtained in Kwei-chow. Salt is obtained from brine wells in Shan-si
  and Sze-ch'uen, and by evaporation from sea water. Excellent kaolin
  abounds in the north-eastern part of Kiang-si, and is largely used in
  the manufacture of porcelain.

    Precious metals.

  The Chinese government has opened small gold mines at Hai-nan, in
  which island silver is also found. A little gold-washing is done in
  the sandy beds of certain rivers, for instance, the Han river and the
  upper Yangtsze, above Su-chow (Suifu), which here goes by the name of
  the "Goldsand" river. The amount so extracted is extremely small and
  hardly pays the labour of washing, but the existence of gold grains
  points to a matrix higher up. The whole of south-western China has the
  reputation of being highly metalliferous. Gold is obtained in some
  quantities on the upper waters of the Amur river, on the frontier
  between China and Siberia. The washings are carried on by Chinese.
  Gold has also been found in quartz veins at P'ing-tu, in Shan-tung,
  but hardly in paying quantities. There are silver mines in Yun-nan.

    Silk and porcelain.

  Manufactures.--The principal native manufactures before the
  competition of western nations made itself felt were--apart from the
  preparation of tea and other produce for the market--those of
  porcelain and silk. The silks and gauzes of Su-chow and Nanking in the
  province of Kiang-su, and those of Hang-chow in Cheh-kiang, are highly
  esteemed throughout China. Silk-weaving is still carried on solely in
  native looms and chiefly in the cities named. The greater part of the
  silk spun is used in China, but a considerable export trade has grown
  up and 27% of the world's supply of raw silk is from China. The
  reeling of silk cocoons by steam-machinery is supplanting native
  methods. There are filatures for winding silk at Shanghai, Canton,
  Chifu and other cities.

  The most famous porcelain came from the province of Kiang-si, the seat
  of the industry being the city of King-te-chen. Imperial works were
  established here about the year A.D. 1000, and the finest porcelain is
  sent to Peking for the use of the emperor. At one time 1,000,000
  work-people were said to be employed, and the kilns numbered 600. The
  Taiping rebels destroyed the kilns in 1850. Some of them have been
  rebuilt. "Activity begins to reign anew, but the porcelain turned out
  is far from equalling in colour and finish that of former times. At
  the present day King-te-chen has but 160 furnaces and employs 160,000
  workmen."[20] The common rice bowls sold throughout China are
  manufactured here. The value of the export sales is said to be about
  £500,000 yearly.

    Cotton, &c.

  The spinning and weaving of cotton on hand-looms is carried on almost
  universally. Besides that locally manufactured, the whole of the large
  import of Indian yarn is worked up into cloth by the women of the
  household. Four-fifths of the clothing of the lower classes is
  supplied by this domestic industry. Of minor industries Indian ink is
  manufactured in Ngan-hui and Sze-ch'uen, fans, furniture, lacquer ware
  and matting in Kwang-tung, dyes in Cheh-kiang and Chih-li, and
  varnished tiles in Hu-nan. Paper, bricks and earthenware are made in
  almost all the provinces.

  Of industries on a large scale--other than those indicated--the most
  important are cotton-spinning and weaving mills established by foreign
  companies at Shanghai. Permission to carry on this industry was
  refused to foreigners until the right was secured by the Japanese
  treaty following the war of 1894-95. Some native-owned mills had been
  working before that date, and were reported to have made large
  profits. Nine mills, with an aggregate of 400,000 spindles, were
  working in 1906, five of them under foreign management. There are also
  four or five mills at one or other of the ports working 80,000
  spindles more. These mills are all engaged in the manufacture of yarn
  for the Chinese market, very little weaving being done. Chinese-grown
  cotton is used, the staple of which is short; only the coarser counts
  can be spun.

  At certain large centres flour and rice mills have been erected and
  are superseding native methods of treating wheat and rice; at Canton
  there are sugar refineries. At Hanyang near Hankow are large
  iron-works owned by Chinese. They are supplied with ore from the mines
  at Ta-ye, 60 m. distant, and turn out (1909) about 300 steel rails a
  day.

Commerce.

  The foreign trade of China is conducted through the "treaty ports,"
  i.e. sea and river ports and a few inland cities which by the treaty
  of Nanking (1842) that of Tientsin (1860) and subsequent treaties have
  been thrown open to foreigners for purposes of trade. (The Nanking
  treaty recognized five ports only as open to foreigners--Canton,[21]
  Amoy, Fu-chow, Ning-po and Shanghai.) These places are as follows,
  treaty ports in Manchuria being included: Amoy, Antung, Canton,
  Chang-sha, Dairen, Chin-kiang, Chinwantao, Ch'ungk'ing, Chifu,
  Fu-chow, Funing (Santuao), Hang-chow, Hankow, I-ch'ang, Kang-moon,
  Kiao-chow, Kiu-kiang, K'iung-chow, Kow-loon, Lappa, Lung-chow,
  Mengtsze, Mukden, Nanking, Nanning, Ning-po, Niu-chwang, Pakhoi,
  Sanshui, Shanghai, Shasi, Su-chow, Swatow, Szemao, Tatungkow,
  Tientsin, Teng-yueh, Wen-chow, Wu-chow, Wuhu, Yo-chow.

  The progress of the foreign trade of China is set out in the
  following table. The values are given both in currency and sterling,
  but it is to be remarked that during the period when silver was
  falling, that is, from 1875 to 1893, the silver valuation represents
  much more accurately variations in the volume of trade than does the
  gold valuation. Gold prices fell continuously during this period,
  while silver prices were nearly constant. Since 1893 silver prices
  have tended to rise, and the gold valuation is then more accurate. The
  conversion from silver to gold is made at the rate of exchange of the
  day, and therefore varies from year to year.

  Table of Imports and Exports, exclusive of Bullion.

  +--------+---------------------------+---------------------------+
  |        |          Imports.         |          Exports.         |
  |        +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
  |  Year. |   Value in  |Equivalent in|   Value in  |Equivalent in|
  |        |    Taels.   |  Sterling.  |    Taels.   |  Sterling.  |
  +--------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
  |   1875 |  66,344,000 | £19,903,000 |  77,308,000 | £23,193,000 |
  |   1885 |  84,803,000 |  22,618,000 |  73,899,000 |  19,206,000 |
  |   1890 | 113,082,000 |  29,213,000 |  96,695,000 |  24,980,000 |
  |   1895 | 154,685,000 |  25,136,000 | 154,964,000 |  25,181,000 |
  |   1898 | 189,991,000 |  28,498,000 | 170,743,000 |  25,612,000 |
  |[A]1904 | 344,060,000 |  49,315,000 | 239,486,000 |  34,326,000 |
  |[A]1905 | 447,100,791 |  67,065,118 | 227,888,197 |  34,183,229 |
  +--------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

  [A] This marked increase is partly owing to a more complete
  presentation of statistics; in 1903 an additional number of vessels
  were placed under the control of the imperial maritime customs.

  In 1907 the net imports were valued at £67,664,222 and the exports at
  £42,961,863. In 1908 China suffered from the general depression in
  trade. In that year the imports were valued at £52,600,730, the
  exports at £36,888,050. The distribution of the trade among the
  various countries of the world is shown in the table which is given
  below. Hong-Kong is a port for trans-shipment. The imports into China
  from it come originally from Great Britain, India, Germany, France,
  America, Australia, the Straits Settlements, &c., and the exports from
  China to it go ultimately to the same countries.

  Imports into China. (000's omitted.)

  +-------------------------+-----+-----+-----+------+------+------+--------+
  |    Imports from         |1875.|1880.|1885.| 1890.| 1895.| 1905.|   1908.|
  +-------------------------+-----+-----+-----+------+------+------+--------+
  |United Kingdom           |£6340|£6382|£6396|£6,357|£5,518|£1,971|  £9,647|
  |Hong-Kong                | 8282| 8829| 9404|18,615|14,331|22,240|  20,033|
  |India                    | 4451| 6039| 4306| 2,661| 2,753| 5,220|   4,066|
  |Other British possessions|  396|  346|  542|   571|   732|   963|        |
  |United States            |  304|  351|  884|   949|   827|11,538|   5,499|
  |Continent of Europe      |     |     |     |      |      |      |        |
  |  (except Russia)        |  230|  671|  671|   638| 1,227| 4,295|[B]3,332|
  |Russian Empire           |  .. |  .. |  ..

  The chief imports are cotton goods, opium, rice and sugar, metals,
  oil, coal and coke, woollen goods and raw cotton, and fish. Cotton
  goods are by far the most important of the imports. They come chiefly
  from the United Kingdom, which also exports to China woollen
  manufactures, metals and machinery. China is next to India the
  greatest consumer of Manchester goods. The export of plain cotton
  cloths to China and Hong-Kong has for some years averaged 500,000,000
  yds. per annum. The only competitor which Great Britain has in this
  particular branch of trade is the United States of America, which has
  been supplying China with increasing quantities of cotton goods. The
  value in sterling of the total imports into China from the United
  Kingdom long remained nearly constant, but inasmuch as the gold prices
  were falling the volume of the export was in reality steadily growing.
  The imports into England, however, of Chinese produce have fallen off,
  mainly because China tea has been driven out of the English market by
  the growth of the India and Ceylon tea trade, and also because the
  bulk of the China silk is now shipped directly to Lyons and other
  continental ports instead of to London, as formerly was the rule. The
  growth of the import of Indian yarn into China has been very rapid. In
  1884 the import was 35,000,000 lb and in 1904 it reached 217,171,066
  lb. The imports into China from all countries for 1908 were as
  follows:--

    Opium          £4,563,000       Coal and coke   1,124,000
    Cotton goods   14,786,000       Oil, kerosene   2,666,000
    Raw cotton        232,000       Rice            3,543,000
    Woollen goods     717,000       Sugar           3,514,000
    Metals          2,956,000       Fish, &c.       1,028,000

  The principal exports from China are silk and tea. These two articles,
  indeed, up to 1880 constituted more than 80% of the whole export.
  Owing, however, mainly to the fall in silver, and partly also to cheap
  ocean freights, it has become profitable to place on the European
  market a vast number of miscellaneous articles of Chinese produce
  which formerly found no place in the returns of trade. The silver
  prices in China did not change materially with the fall in silver, and
  Chinese produce was thus able to compete favourably with the produce
  of other countries. The following table shows the relative condition
  of the export trade in 1880 and 1908:--

  +---------------+-------------+-------------+
  | Exports of    |     1880.   |     1908.   |
  +---------------+-------------+-------------+
  | Silk          |  £9,750,000 | £11,055,000 |
  | Tea           |  11,774,000 |   4,384,000 |
  | Miscellaneous |   4,058,000 |  21,448,000 |
  +---------------+-------------+-------------+
  |    Total      | £25,582,000 | £36,888,000 |
  +---------------+-------------+-------------+

  In the miscellaneous class the chief items of exports in 1908 were
  beans and beancake, £3,142,000; raw cotton, £1,379,000; hides,
  £1,028,000; straw braid, £1,002,000; furs and skin rugs, £760,000;
  paper, £458,000; and clothing, £177,000. Sugar, tobacco, mats and
  matting are also exported. The export of all cereals except pulse is
  forbidden. Of the tea exported in 1908 the greater part went to Russia
  and Siberia, the United States and Great Britain. There is a regular
  export of gold amounting on an average to about a million sterling per
  annum. A part of it would seem to be the hoardings of the nation
  brought out by the high price of gold in terms of silver, but a part
  is virgin gold derived from gold workings in Manchuria on the upper
  waters of the Amur river.

  Customs duty is levied on exports as well as imports, both being
  assessed at rates based on a nominal 5% ad val.

  Shipping and Navigation.--Besides the over-sea trade China has a
  large coasting and river trade which is largely carried on by British
  and other foreign vessels. During the year 1908, 207,605 vessels, of
  83,991,289 tons (86,600 being steamers of 77,955,525 tons), entered
  and cleared Chinese ports.[22] Of these 28,445 vessels of 34,405,761
  tons were British; 33,539 of 11,998,588 tons, Chinese vessels of
  foreign type; 103,124 of 4,947,272 tons, Chinese junks; 5496 vessels
  of 6,585,671 tons, German; 30,708 of 18,055,138 tons, Japanese; 653 of
  998,775 tons, American; 3901 of 5,071,689 tons, French; 1033 of
  980,635 tons, Norwegian.

  Of vessels engaged in the foreign trade only the entrances during the
  year numbered 38,556 of 12,187,140 tons, and the clearances 36,602 of
  12,057,126 tons. The nationality of the vessels (direct foreign trade)
  was mainly as follows:--

  +-------------+--------------------+--------------------+
  |             |     Entrances.     |     Clearances.    |
  | Nationality +--------+-----------+--------+-----------+
  |   1908.     |  No.   |   Tons.   |  No.   |   Tons.   |
  +-------------+--------+-----------+--------+-----------+
  | British     |  4,569 | 4,678,094 |  4,614 | 4,754,087 |
  | German      |    891 | 1,195,775 |    928 | 1,124,872 |
  | Norwegian   |    255 |   254,211 |    259 |   255,295 |
  | French      |    468 |   629,680 |    468 |   616,883 |
  | American    |    136 |   440,602 |    131 |   439,947 |
  | Japanese    |  2,187 | 2,587,818 |  2,046 | 2,461,132 |
  | Chinese     | 29,775 | 2,001,872 | 27,888 | 1,915,258 |
  +-------------+--------+-----------+--------+-----------+

  The tonnage of the Dutch, Austrian and Russian vessels cleared and
  entered was in each case between 102,000 and 127,000.

Communications.

  External communication is carried on by ancient caravan routes
  crossing Central Asia, by the trans-Siberian railway, which is
  increasingly used for passenger traffic, but chiefly by steamship,
  the steamers being almost entirely owned by foreign companies. There
  is regular and rapid communication with Europe (via the Suez canal
  route) and with Japan and the Pacific coast of America. Other lines
  serve the African and the Australasian trade. The only important
  Chinese-owned steamers are those of the Chinese Merchants' Steam
  Navigation Company, which has its headquarters at Shanghai.

  Internal communications are by river, canal, road and railway, the
  railways since the beginning of the 20th century having become a very
  important factor. In 1898 the Chinese government agreed that all
  internal waterways should be open to foreign and native steamers, and
  in 1907 there were on the registers of the river ports for inland
  water traffic 609 steamers under the Chinese flag and 255 under
  foreign flags.

    The Pioneer Line destroyed.

    China's first efforts.

    The era of concessions.

    Administration.

  Railways.--A short line of railway between Shanghai and Wusung was
  opened in 1875. The fate of this pioneer railway may be mentioned as
  an introduction to what follows. The railway was really built without
  any regular permission from the Chinese government, but it was hoped
  that, once finished and working, the irregularity would be overlooked
  in view of the manifest benefit to the people. This might have been
  accomplished but for an unfortunate accident which happened on the
  line a few months after it was opened. A Chinaman was run over and
  killed, and this event, of course, intensified the official
  opposition, and indeed threatened to bring about a riot. The working
  of the line was stopped by order of the British minister, and
  thereupon negotiations were entered into with a view to selling the
  line to the Chinese government. A bargain was struck sufficiently
  favourable to the foreign promoters of the line, and it was further
  agreed that, pending payment of the instalments which were spread over
  a year, the line should continue to be worked by the company. The
  expectation was that when the officials once got the line into their
  own hands, and found it a paying concern, they would continue to run
  it in their own interest. Not so, however, did things fall out. The
  very day that the twelve months were up the line was closed; the
  engines were dismantled, the rails and sleepers were torn up, and the
  whole concern was shipped off to the distant island of Formosa, where
  carriages, axles and all the rest of the gear were dumped on the shore
  and left for the most part to disappear in the mud. The spacious area
  of the Shanghai station was cleared of its buildings, and thereon was
  erected a temple to the queen of heaven by way of purifying the sacred
  soil of China from such abomination. This put a stop for nearly twenty
  years to all efforts on the part of foreigners to introduce railways
  into China. The next step in railway construction was taken by the
  Chinese themselves, and on the initiative of Li Hung-chang. In 1886 a
  company was formed under official patronage, and it built a short
  line, to connect the coal-mines of K'aip'ing in Chih-li with the mouth
  of the Peiho river at Taku. The government next authorized the
  formation of a Native Merchants' Company, under official control, to
  build a line from Taku to Tientsin, which was opened to traffic in
  1888. It was not, however, till nine years later, viz. in 1897, that
  the line was completed as far as Peking. A British engineer, Mr
  Kinder, was responsible for the construction of the railway. Meantime,
  however, the extension had been continued north-east along the coast
  as far as Shanhai-Kwan, and a farther extension subsequently connected
  with the treaty port of Niu-chwang. The money for these extensions was
  mostly found by the government, and the whole line is now known as the
  Imperial Northern railway. The length of the line is 600 m. Meanwhile
  the high officials of the empire had gradually been brought round to
  the idea that railway development was in itself a good thing. Chang
  Chih-tung, then viceroy of the Canton provinces, memorialized strongly
  in this sense, with the condition, however, that the railways should
  be built with Chinese capital and of Chinese materials. In particular,
  he urged the making of a line to connect Peking with Hankow for
  strategic purposes. The government took him at his word, and he was
  transferred from Canton to Hankow, with authority to proceed forthwith
  with his railway. True to his purpose, he at once set to work to
  construct iron-works at Hankow. Smelting furnaces, rolling mills, and
  all the machinery necessary for turning out steel rails, locomotives,
  &c., were erected. Several years were wasted over this preliminary
  work, and over £1,000,000 sterling was spent, only to find that the
  works after all were a practical failure. Steel rails could be made,
  but at a cost two or three times what they could be procured for in
  Europe. After the Japanese War the hope of building railways with
  Chinese capital was abandoned. A prominent official named Sheng
  Hsuan-hwai was appointed director-general of railways, and empowered
  to enter into negotiations with foreign financiers for the purpose of
  raising loans. It was still hoped that at least the main control would
  remain in Chinese hands, but the diplomatic pressure of France and
  Russia caused even that to be given up, and Great Britain insisting on
  equal privileges for her subjects, the future of railways in China
  remained in the hands of the various concessionaires. But after the
  defeat of Russia by Japan (1904-1905) the theory of the undivided
  Chinese control of railways was resuscitated. The new spirit was
  exemplified in the contracts for the financing and construction of
  three railways--the Canton-Kowloon line in 1907, and the
  Tientsin-Yangtsze and the Shanghai-Hangchow-Ning-po lines in 1908. In
  the first of these instances the railway was mortgaged as security for
  the loan raised for its construction, and its finance and working were
  to be modelled on the arrangements obtaining in the case of the
  Imperial Northern railway, under which the administration, while
  vested in the Chinese government, was supervised by a British
  accountant and chief engineer. In the other two instances, however, no
  such security was offered; the Chinese government undertook the
  unfettered administration of the foreign capital invested in the
  lines, and the Europeans connected with these works became simply
  Chinese employés. Moreover, in 1908 the Peking-Hankow line was
  redeemed from Belgian concessionaires, a 5% loan of £5,000,000 being
  raised for the purpose in London and Paris. In that year there was
  much popular outcry against foreign concessionaires being allowed to
  carry out the terms of their contract, and the British and Chinese
  corporation in consequence parted with their concession for the
  Su-chow, Ning-po and Hang-chow railway, making instead a loan of
  £1,500,000 to the ministry of communications for the provinces through
  which the line would run. A double difficulty was encountered in the
  construction and management of the railways; the reconciliation of the
  privileges accorded to foreign syndicates and governments with the
  "Recovery of Rights" campaign, and the reconciliation of the claims of
  the central government at Peking with the demands of the provincial
  authorities. As to the foreigners, Great Britain, France, Germany, the
  United States, Russia and Japan, all had claims and concessions, many
  of them conflicting; while as between Peking and the provinces there
  was a quarrel mainly concerned with the spoils and "squeezes" to be
  obtained by railway construction; in some instances the provinces
  proved more powerful than the central government, as in the case of
  the Su-chow-Ning-po line, and notably in the matter of the
  Tientsin-Pukau (Nanking) railway. In that case the provincial
  authorities overrode the central government, with the result that "for
  wholesale jobbery, waste and mismanagement the enterprise acquired
  unenviable notoriety in a land where these things are generally
  condoned." The good record of one or two lines notwithstanding, the
  management of the railways under Chinese control had proved, up to
  1910, inefficient and corrupt.[23] Nevertheless, so great was the
  economic development following the opening of the line, that in
  Chinese hands the Peking-Hankow railway yielded a profit.

    The Railway systems.

  The main scheme of the railway systems of China is simple. It consists
  of lines, more or less parallel, running roughly north and south,
  linked by cross lines with coast ports, or abutting on navigable
  rivers. One great east and west line will run through central China,
  from Hankow to Sze-ch'uen. Connexion with Europe is afforded by the
  Manchuria-trans-Siberia main line, which has a general east and west
  direction. From Harbin on this railway a branch runs south to Mukden,
  which since 1908 has become an important railway centre. Thence one
  line goes due south to Port Arthur; another south-east to An-tung (on
  the Yalu) and Korea; a third south and west to Tientsin and Peking. A
  branch from the Mukden-Tientsin line goes round the head of the Gulf
  of Liao-tung and connects Niu-chwang with the Mukden-Port Arthur line.
  By this route it is 470 m. from Peking to Niu-chwang.

  From Peking the trunk line (completed in 1905) runs south through the
  heart of China to Hankow on the Yangtsze-kiang. This section (754 m.
  long) is popularly known as "the Lu-Han line," from the first part of
  the names of the terminal stations. The continuation south of this
  line from Hankow to Canton was in 1910 under construction. Thus a
  great north and south connexion nearly 2000 m. long is established
  from Canton to Harbin. From Mukden southward the line is owned and
  worked by China.

  A railway (German concession) starts from Kiao-chow and runs westward
  through Shan-tung to Chinan Fu, whence an extension farther west to
  join the main Lu-Han line at Cheng-ting Fu in Chih-li was undertaken.
  Westward from Cheng-ting Fu a line financed by the Russo-Chinese Bank
  runs to T'ai-yuen Fu in Shan-si.

  Another main north and south railway parallel to, but east of, the
  Lu-Han line and following more or less the route of the Grand Canal,
  is designed to connect Tientsin, Su-chow (in Kiang-su), Chin-kiang,
  Nanking, Shanghai, Hang-chow and Ning-po. The southern section
  (Nanking, Shanghai, &c.) was open in 1909. This Tientsin-Ning-po
  railway connects at Chinan-Fu with the Shan-tung lines.

  A third north and south line starts from Kiu-Kiang on the Yangtsze
  below Hankow and traversing the centre of Kiang-si province will join
  the Canton-Hankow line at Shao-Chow in Kwang-tung province. The
  construction of the first section, Kiu-Kiang to Nanchang (76 m.),
  began in 1910.

  In southern China besides the main Canton to Hankow railway (under
  construction) a line (120 m. long) runs from Canton to Kowloon
  (opposite Hong-Kong), and there are local lines running inland from
  Swatow and Fuchow. The French completed in 1909 a trunk line (500 m.
  long) from Haiphong in Tong King to Yun-nan Fu, the capital of
  Yun-nan, some 200 m. being in Chinese territory. The French hold
  concessions for railways in Kwang-si and Kwang-tung. The British
  government has the right to extend the Burma railway system through
  Yun-nan and north to the Yangtsze.

  There are local lines in Hu-nan and Ho-nan which connect with the
  trunk line from Canton to Peking. The Peking-Kalgan line (122 m. long)
  is a distinct undertaking. The Chinese propose to continue it another
  530 m. north-westward to Urga in Mongolia, and an eventual junction
  with the trans-Siberian railway in the neighbourhood of Lake Baikal is
  contemplated. This line would greatly shorten the distance between
  Moscow and Peking.

  In 1910 there were open for traffic in China (not reckoning the
  Russian and Japanese systems in Manchuria, q.v.) over 3000 m. of
  railway, and 1500 m. of trunk lines were under construction.

    Roads, rivers, and canals.

  China is traversed in all directions by roads. Very few are paved of
  metalled and nearly all are badly kept; speaking generally, the
  government spends nothing in keeping either the roads or canals in
  repair. The roads in several instances are subsidiary to the canals
  and navigable rivers as a means of communication. The ancient trade
  routes were twelve in number, viz.[24]:--

     1.  The West river route (W. from Canton).
     2.  The Cheling Pass route (N.W. from Canton).
     3.  The Meiling Pass route (N. from Canton).
     4.  The Min river route (N.W. from Fu-chow).
     5.  The Lower Yangtsze route (as far W. as Hu-peh and Hu-nan).
     6.  The Upper Yangtsze route (from I'chang to Sze-ch'uen).
     7.  The Kwei-chow route.
     8.  The Han river route (Hankow to Shen-si).
     9.  The Grand Canal (already described).
    10.  The Shan-si route.
    11.  The Kiakhta route.
    12.  The Manchurian route.

  Of the routes named, that by the West river commands the trade of
  Kwang-si and penetrates to Yun-nan (where it now has to meet the
  competition of the French railway from Tong King) and Kwei-chow. The
  Cheling Pass route from Canton is so named as it crosses that pass
  (1500 ft. high) to reach the water-ways of Hu-nan at Chen-chow on an
  affluent of the Siang, and thus connects with the Yangtsze. The trade
  of this route--whence in former times the teas of Hu-nan (Oonam) and
  Hu-peh (Oopaek) reached Canton--has been largely diverted via Shanghai
  and up the Yangtsze. The Canton-Hankow railway also supersedes it for
  through traffic. The route by the Meiling Pass (1000 ft. High) links
  Canton and Kiu-kiang. This route is used by the King-te Chen porcelain
  works to send, to Canton the commoner ware, there to be painted with
  florid and multicoloured designs. The Min river route serves mainly
  the province of Fu-kien. The Lower Yangtsze is a river route, now
  mainly served by steamers (though the salt is still carried by junks),
  and the Upper Yangtsze is a river route also, but much more difficult
  of navigation. The Kwei-chow route is up the river Yuen from Changte
  and the Tung-t'ing lake. The Han river route becomes beyong Sing-nagn
  Fu a land route over the Tsingling mountains to the capital of
  Shen-si, and thence on to Kan-suh, Mongolia and Siberia. The Shan-si
  route from Peking, wholly by road, calls for no detailed account; the
  Manchurian route is now adequately served by railways. There remains
  the important Kiakhta route. From Peking it goes to Kalgan (this
  section is now served by a railway), whence the main route traverses
  Mongolia, while branches serve Shan-si, Shen-si, Kan-suh, Turkestan,
  &c. By this route go the caravans bearing tea to Siberia and Russia.
  Other routes are from Yun-nan to Burma and from Sze-ch'uen province to
  Tibet.

  The government maintains a number of courier roads, which, like the
  main trade roads, keep approximately to a straight line. These courier
  roads are sometimes cut in the steep sides of mountains or run through
  them in tunnels. They are, in the plains, 20 to 25 ft. wide and are
  occasionally paved. The chief courier roads starting from Peking go to
  Sze-chu'en, Yun-nan, Kweilin (in Kwang-si), Canton and Fu-chow. Canals
  are numerous, especially in the deltas of the Yangtsze and Si-kiang.

  In the centre and south of China the roads are rarely more than 5 ft.
  broad and wheeled traffic is seldom possible. Bridges are generally of
  stone, sometimes of wood; large rivers are crossed by bridges of
  boats. In the north carts drawn by ponies, mules or oxen are employed;
  in the centre and south passengers travel in sedan-chairs or in
  wheelbarrows, or ride on ponies. Occasionally the local authorities
  employ the corvée system to dig out the bed of a canal, but as a rule
  roads are left to take care of themselves.

  Posts and Telegraphs.--Every important city is now connected by
  telegraph with the capital, and the service is reasonably efficient.
  In 1907 there were 25,913 m. of telegraph lines. Connexion is also
  established with the British lines in Burma and the Russian lines in
  Siberia. The Great Northern Telegraph Company (Danish) and the Eastern
  Extension Telegraph Company (British) connect Shanghai by cable with
  Hong-Kong, Japan, Singapore and Europe. An imperial postal service
  was established in 1896 under the general control of the maritime
  customs.[25] By an edict of November 1906 the control of the postal
  services was transferred to the Board of Communication. The Post
  Office serves all the open ports, and every important city in the
  interior. There were in 1910 some 4000 native post-offices, employing
  15,000 persons, of whom about 200 only were foreigners. The treaty
  powers however, still maintain their separate post offices at
  Shanghai, and several other treaty ports for the despatch and receipt
  of mails from Europe. During the years 1901-1908 mail matters
  increased from ten millions to two hundred and fifty-two millions of
  items; and the 250 tons of parcels handled to 27,155 tons. In postal
  matters China has adopted a most progressive attitude. The imperial
  post conforms in all respects to the universal Postal Union
  regulations.    (G. J.; X.)

IV. GOVERNMENT AND ADMINISTRATION

Changes in the traditional form of government in China--an autocracy based on parental rule--were
initiated in 1905 when a commission was appointed to study the forms of government in other
countries.[26] On the 1st of September 1906 an imperial edict was issued in which the establishment
of parliamentary institutions in China was foreshadowed. In 1907 an advisory council--as a
sort of stepping-stone to representative government--was established by another edict. On the
27th of August 1908 an edict announced the convocation of a parliament in the ninth year from
that date. An edict of the 3rd of December 1908 reaffirmed that of the 27th of August. An edict
of the 31st of October 1909 fixed the classes from which an Imperial Assembly (or Senate) was
to be selected, and an edict of the 9th of May 1910 gave the names of the senators, all of
whom had been nominated by the throne. The assembly as thus constituted consisted of 200 members
drawn from eight classes: (1) princes and nobles of the imperial house--16 members; (2) Manchu
and Chinese nobles--12 members; (3) princes and nobles of dependencies--14 members; (4) imperial
clansmen other than those mentioned--6 members; (5) Peking officials--32 members; (6) eminent
scholars--10 members; (7) exceptional property owners--10 members; (8) representatives of provincial
assemblies--100 members. The national assembly, which was opened by the regent on the 3rd of
October 1910, thus contained the elements of a two-chambered parliament. The edict summoning
the assembly contained the following exhortations:--

  The members should understand that this assemblage of the senate is an
  unprecedented undertaking in China and will be the forerunner of the
  creation of a parliament. They are earnestly desired to devote to it
  their patriotism and sincerity, to observe proper order, and to fulfil
  their duties in representing public opinion. Thus it is hoped that our
  sincere wish to effect constitutional reforms in their proper order
  and to aim at success may be duly satisfied.

Concurrently with these steps towards a fundamental alteration in the method of government,
changes were made in many departments of the state, and an elective element was introduced
into the provincial administrations. The old conception of government with such modifications
as had been made up to 1910 are set forth below.

    The Chinese conception of government.

  The laws of the state prescribe the government of the country to be
  based on the government of the family.[27] The emperor is the sole and
  supreme head of the state, his will being absolute alike in the
  highest affairs and in the humblest details of private life. The
  highest form of legislation was an imperial decree, whether
  promulgated in general terms or to meet a special case. In either form
  it was the law of the land, and no privilege or prescriptive right
  could be pleaded against it. All officers of state, all judges and
  magistrates, hold their offices entirely at the imperial pleasure.
  They can be dismissed, degraded, punished, without reason assigned and
  without form of trial--even without knowing by whom or of what they
  are accused. The monarch has an advisory council, but he is not bound
  by its advice, nor need he pretend that he is acting by and with its
  advice and concurrence. This condition of affairs dates back to a
  primitive state of society, which probably existed among the Chinese
  who first developed a civilized form of government. That this system
  should have been maintained in China through many centuries is a fact
  into the causes of which it is worth while to inquire. We find it
  pictured in the records which make up the Book of History, and we
  find it enforced in the writings of the great apostle of patriarchal
  institutions, Confucius, and in all the other works which go to make
  up the Confucian Canon. The reverence with which these scriptures are
  viewed was the principal means of perpetuating the primitive form of
  Chinese imperialism. The contents of their pages formed the study of
  every schoolboy, and supplied the themes at the competitive
  examinations through which every one had to pass who sought an
  official career. Thus the mind of the nation was constantly and almost
  exclusively turned towards them, and their dogmas became part and
  parcel of the national training. The whole theory of government is the
  embodiment of parental love and filial piety. As the people are the
  children of the emperor, so is he the T'ien-tsze or the Son of
  Heaven.

    The emperor.

  In practice the arbitrary power of the emperor is tempered in several
  ways. Firstly, although the constitution conferred this absolute and
  unchecked power on the emperor, it was not for his gratification but
  that he might exercise it for the good of his people. He rules by
  divine authority, and as the vicegerent of heaven upon earth. If he
  rules corruptly or unjustly, heaven will send disasters and calamity
  on the people as a reproof; if the rule becomes tyrannical, heaven may
  withdraw its favour entirely, and then rebellion may be justified. The
  Manchu dynasty came to the throne as foreign conquerors, nevertheless
  they base their right to rule, not on the power of the sword, but on
  divine approval. On this moral ground they claim the obedience of
  their subjects, and submit themselves to the corresponding
  obligations. The emperor, unless he has gained the throne by conquest,
  is selected by his predecessor or by the imperial family in conclave.
  He is usually a son (but seldom the eldest son) of his predecessor,
  and need not be the child of the empress-consort,[28] though (other
  things being equal) a son of the empress is preferred. Failing a son
  another prince of the imperial house is chosen, the choice being
  properly among the princes of a generation below that of the preceding
  emperor, so that the new emperor may be adopted as the son of his
  predecessor, and perform for him the due ceremonies at the ancestral
  tablets. Apart from this ancestor-worship the emperor worships only at
  the Altar of Heaven, leaving Buddhism, Taoism, and any other form of
  worship to his subjects. The emperor's sacrifices and prayers to
  heaven are conducted with great parade and ceremony. The chief of
  these state observances is the sacrifice at the winter solstice, which
  is performed before sunrise on the morning of the 21st of December at
  the Temple of Heaven. The form of the altar is peculiar.

  "It consists of a triple circular terrace, 210 ft. wide at the base,
  150 in the middle, and 90 at the top.... The emperor, with his
  immediate suite, kneels in front of the tablet of Shang-ti (The
  Supreme Being, or Heaven), and faces the north. The platform is laid
  with marble stones, forming nine concentric circles; the inner circle
  consists of nine stones, cut so as to fit with close edges round the
  central stone, which is a perfect circle. Here the emperor kneels, and
  is surrounded first by the circles of the terraces and their enclosing
  walls, and then by the circle of the horizon. He then seems to himself
  and to his court to be in the centre of the universe, and turning to
  the north, assuming the attitude of a subject, he acknowledges in
  prayer and by his position that he is inferior to heaven, and to
  heaven alone. Round him on the pavement are the nine circles of as
  many heavens, consisting of nine stones, then eighteen, then
  twenty-seven, and so on in successive multiples of nine till the
  square of nine, the favourite number of Chinese philosophy, is reached
  in the outermost circle of eighty-one stones."

  On this occasion, also, a bullock of two years old, and without
  blemish, is offered as a whole burnt-offering in a green porcelain
  furnace which stands close beside the altar. The emperor's life is
  largely occupied with ceremonial observances, and custom ordains that
  except on state occasions he should not leave the walls of the palace.

  For his knowledge of public affairs the emperor is thus largely
  dependent upon such information as courtiers and high officers of
  state permit to reach him.[29] The palace eunuchs have often exercised
  great power, though their influence has been less under the Manchus
  than was the case during previous dynasties. Though in theory the
  throne commands the services and money of all its subjects yet the
  crown as such has no revenues peculiarly its own. It is dependent on
  contributions levied through the high officials on the several
  provinces, subject always to the will of the people, and without their
  concurrence and co-operation nothing can be done.[30] The power of the
  purse and the power of the sword are thus exercised mediately, and the
  autocratic power is in practice transferred to the general body of
  high functionaries, or to that clique which for the time being has
  the ear of the emperor, and is united enough and powerful enough to
  impose its will on the others.

    China governed by its civil service.

  The functionaries who thus really wield the supreme power are almost
  without exception civil officials. Naturally the court has shown an
  inclination to choose Manchu rather than Chinese, but of late years
  this preference has become less marked, and in the imperial
  appointments to provincial administrations the proportion of Manchus
  chosen was at the beginning of the 20th century not more than
  one-fifth of the whole number. The real reason for this change is the
  marked superiority of the Chinese, in whose hands the administration
  is stated to be safer for the Manchu dynasty. Practically all the high
  Chinese officials have risen through the junior ranks of the civil
  service, and obtained their high position as the reward--so it must be
  presumed--of long and distinguished public service.

    Functions of the central government.

  Through the weakness of some of the emperors the functions of the
  central government gradually came to be to check the action of the
  provincial governments rather than assume a direct initiative in the
  conduct of affairs. "The central government may be said to criticize
  rather than to control the action of the provincial administrations,
  wielding, however, at all times the power of immediate removal from
  his post of any official whose conduct may be found irregular or
  considered dangerous to the stability of the state."[31] This was
  written in 1877, and since then the pressure of foreign nations has
  compelled the central government to assume greater responsibilities,
  and the empire is now ruled from Peking in a much more effective
  manner than was the case when Lord Napier in 1834 could find no
  representative of the central government with whom to transact
  business.

  If the central authorities take the initiative, and issue orders to
  the provincial authorities, it, however, does not follow that they
  will be carried out. The orders, if unwelcome, are not directly
  disobeyed, but rather ignored, or specious pleas are put forward,
  showing the difficulty or impossibility of carrying them out at that
  particular juncture. The central government always wields the power of
  removing or degrading a recalcitrant governor, and no case has been
  known where such an order was not promptly obeyed. But the central
  government, being composed of officials, stand by their order, and are
  extremely reluctant to issue such a command, especially at the bidding
  of a foreign power. Generally the opinion of the governors and
  viceroys has great weight with the central government.

    Departments of the central administration.

  Under the Ming dynasty the Nuiko or Grand Secretariat formed the
  supreme council of the empire. It is now of more honorific than actual
  importance. Active membership is limited to six persons, namely, four
  grand secretaries and two assistant grand secretaries, half of whom,
  according to a general rule formerly applicable to nearly all the high
  offices in Peking, must be Manchu and half Chinese. It constitutes the
  imperial chancery or court of archives, and admission to its ranks
  confers the highest distinction attainable by Chinese officials,
  though with functions that are almost purely nominal. Members of the
  grand secretariat are distinguished by the honorary title of
  Chung-t'ang. The most distinguished viceroys are usually advanced to
  the dignity of grand secretary while continuing to occupy their posts
  in the provinces. The best known of recent grand secretaries was Li
  Hung-chang.

  Under the Manchu dynasty the Grand Council (Chün Chi Ch'u) became
  the actual privy council of the sovereign, in whose presence its
  members daily transacted the business of the state. This council is
  composed of a small knot of men holding various high offices in the
  government boards at Peking. The literal meaning of Chün Chi Ch'u is
  "place of plans for the army," and the institution derives its name
  from the practice established by the early emperors of the Manchu
  dynasty of treating public affairs on the footing of a military
  council. The usual time of transacting business is from 4 to 6 a.m. In
  addition to the grand council and the grand secretariat there were
  boards to supervise particular departments. By a decree of the 6th of
  November 1906 the central administration was remodelled, subsequent
  decrees making other changes. The administration in 1910 was carried
  on by the following agencies:--

  A. Councils.--(1)The grand council. Its title was modified in 1906
  and it is now known as the Grand Council of State Affairs or Privy
  Council. It has no special function, but deals with all matters of
  general administration and is presided over by the emperor (or
  regent). (2) The Grand Secretariat. This body gained no increase of
  power in 1906. (3) The advisory council or senate (Tu Chêng Yuen)
  created in 1907 and containing representatives of each province. It
  includes all members of the grand council and the grand secretariat
  and the heads of all the executive departments.[32] The members of
  these three bodies form advisory cabinets to the emperor.

  B. Boards.--Besides boards concerned with the affairs of the court
  there were, before the pressure of foreign nations and the movement
  for reform caused changes to be made, six boards charged with the
  conduct of public affairs. They were: (1) Li Pu, the Board of Civil
  Appointments, controlling all appointments in the civil service from
  the rank of district magistrate upwards. (2) Hu Pu, the Board of
  Revenue, dealing with all revenues which reached the central
  government. (3) Li Pu, the Board of Ceremonies. (4) Ping Pu, the
  Board of War. It controlled the provincial forces. The Manchu forces
  were an independent organization attached to the palace. (5) Hsing
  Pu, the Board of Punishments. It dealt with the criminal law only,
  especially the punishment of officials guilty of malpractices. (6)
  Kung Pu, the Board of Works. Its work was limited to the control of
  the construction and repair of official residences.

  As rearranged and enlarged there are now the following boards, given
  in order of precedence:--

  1. Wai-wu Pu.--This was established in 1901 in succession to the
  Tsung-li Yamên,[33] which was created in 1861 after the
  Anglo-Chinese War in 1860 as a board for foreign affairs. Previous to
  that war, which established the right of foreign powers to have their
  representatives in Peking, all business with Western nations was
  transacted by provincial authorities, chiefly the viceroy at Canton.
  The only department at Peking which dealt specially with foreign
  affairs was the Li Fan Yuen, or board of control for the
  dependencies, which regulated the affairs of Mongolia, Tibet and the
  tributary states generally. With the advent of formally accredited
  ambassadors from the European powers something more than this was
  required, and a special board was appointed to discuss all questions
  with the foreign envoys. The number was originally four, with Prince
  Kung, a brother of the emperor Hien Fêng, at their head. It was
  subsequently raised to ten, another prince of the blood, Prince Ching,
  becoming president. The members were spoken of collectively as the
  prince and ministers. For a long time the board had no real power, and
  was looked on rather as a buffer between the foreign envoys and the
  real government. The importance of foreign affairs, however,
  especially since the Japanese War, identified the Yamên more with
  the grand council, several of the most prominent men being members of
  both. At the same time that the Tsung-li Yamên was created, two
  important offices were established in the provinces for dealing with
  foreign commercial questions, viz. the superintendencies of trade for
  the northern and southern ports. The negotiations connected with the
  Boxer outbreak proved so conclusively that the machinery to the
  Tsung-li Yamên was of too antiquated a nature to serve the new
  requirements, that it was determined to abolish the Yamên and to
  substitute for it a board (Pu) to be styled the Wai-wu Pu, or
  "board of foreign affairs."

  2. Board of Civil Appointments.

  3. Board of Home Affairs.

  4. Board of Finance and Paymaster General's Department.

  5. Board of Ceremonies.

  6. Army Board or Ministry of War (instituted 1906).[34]

  7. Board of Judicature.

  8. Board of Agriculture, Works and Commerce (instituted 1903).

  9. Board of dependencies.

  10. Board of Education (instituted 1903).

  11. Board of Communications (instituted 1906).

  Each board has one president and two vice-presidents, with the
  exception of the Wai-wu Pu, which has a comptroller-general and two
  presidents, and the Boards of War and Education, each of which has a
  comptroller-general in addition to the president. According to the
  decree of 1906 no distinction, in filling up the various boards, is to
  be made between Manchu and Chinese.

  Besides the boards named there are other departments of state, some of
  them not limited to any one branch of the public service. The more
  important are those that follow:--

  The Censorate (Tu Ch'a Yuen).--An institution peculiar to China. The
  constitution provides a paid body of men whose duty it is to inform
  the emperor of all facts affecting the welfare of the people and the
  conduct of government, and in particular to keep an eye on the
  malfeasance of his officers. These men are termed Yü shih (imperial
  recorder), generally translated censors. Their office has existed
  since the 3rd century B.C. The body consists of two presidents, a
  Chinese and a Manchu, 24 supervising censors attached to the
  ministries at Peking, and 56 censors, divided into fifteen divisions,
  each division taking a particular province or area, so as to embrace
  the whole eighteen provinces, besides one metropolitan division. The
  censors are privileged to animadvert on the conduct even of the
  emperor himself; to censure the manner in which all other officials
  perform or neglect their duties and to denounce them to the throne.
  They receive appeals made to the emperor, either by the people against
  the officials or by subordinate officials against their superiors.
  They exercise, in accord with the Board of Justice, an oversight over
  all criminal cases and give their opinion whenever the death penalty
  is to be pronounced. They superintend the working of the different
  boards and are sometimes sent to various places as imperial
  inspectors, hence they are called êrh mu kuan (the eyes and ears of
  the emperor). The censors exercise their office at times with great
  boldness;[35] their advice if unpalatable may be disregarded and the
  censor in question degraded. The system of the censorate lends itself
  to espionage and to bribery, and it is said to be more powerful for
  mischief than for good. With the growth in influence of the native
  press the institution appears to lose its raison d'être.

  The grand court of revision (Ta-li sze) or Court of Cassation
  exercises, in conjunction with the Board of Justice and the Censorate,
  a general supervision over the administration of the criminal law.
  These bodies are styled collectively San-fah sze (the Three High
  Justices).

  The Hanlin College (Hanlin Yuen, literally Forest of Pencils) is
  composed of all the literate who have passed the palace examination
  and obtained the title of Hanlin or imperial academist. It has two
  chancellors--a Manchu and a Chinese. Its functions are of a purely
  literary character and it is of importance chiefly because the heads
  of the college, who are presumably the most eminent scholars of the
  empire, have the right of advising the throne on all public affairs,
  and are eligible as members of the grand council or of the Wai-wu Pu.
  The Chinese set fire to it during the fighting in Peking in June 1900
  in the hope of burning out the adjoining British legation. The whole
  of the library, containing some of the most valuable manuscripts in
  the world, was destroyed.

    Provincial government.

  Each of the eighteen provinces of China proper, the three provinces of
  Manchuria and the province of Sin-kiang are ruled by a viceroy placed
  over one, two and in one instance three provinces, or by a governor
  over a single province either under a viceroy or depending directly on
  the central government, the viceroy or the governor being held
  responsible to the emperor for the entire administration, political,
  judicial, military and fiscal. The most important viceroyalties are
  those of Chih-li, Liang-kiang and Liang-kwang. The viceroyalty of
  Liang-kiang comprises the provinces of Kiang-su, Ngan-hui and
  Kiang-si. The viceroy resides at Nanking and hence is sometimes called
  the viceroy of Nanking. Similarly the viceroy of Liang-kwang
  (comprising the provinces of Kwang-tung and Kwang-si) through having
  his residence at Canton is sometimes styled the viceroy of Canton. In provinces where there are both a viceroy
  and a governor they act conjointly, but special departments are
  administered by the one rather than the other. The viceroy controls
  the military and the salt tax; the governor the civil service
  generally.

  The viceroy or governor is assisted by various other high officials,
  all of whom down to the district magistrate are nominated from Peking.
  The chief officials are the treasurer, the judicial commissioner or
  provincial judge, and the commissioner of education (this last post
  being created in 1903). The treasurer controls the finances of the
  whole province, receiving the taxes and paying the salaries of the
  officials. The judge, the salt commissioner, and the grain collector
  are the only other officials whose authority extends over the whole
  province. Each province is subdivided into prefectures ruled by
  prefects, and each prefecture into districts ruled by a district
  magistrate, Chih-hsien, the official through whom the people in
  general receive the orders of the government. Two or more prefectures
  are united into a tao or circuit, the official at the head of which
  is called a Taot'ai. Each town and village has also its unofficial
  governing body of "gentry."[36] The officials appointed from Peking
  hold office for three years, but they may be re-appointed once, and in
  the case of powerful viceroys they may hold office for a prolonged
  period. Another rule is that no official is ever appointed to a post
  in the province of his birth; a rule which, however, did not apply to
  Manchuria. The Peking authorities take care also in making the high
  appointments to send men of different political parties to posts in
  the same province.

  The edict of the 6th of November 1906 initiating changes in the
  central administration was accompanied by another edict outlining
  changes in the provincial government, and an edict of the 22nd of July
  1908 ordered the election of provincial assemblies. The edict made it
  clear that the functions of the assemblies were to be purely
  consultative. The elections took place according to the regulations,
  the number of members allotted to each province varying from 30 (Kirin
  province, Manchuria, and two others) to 140 in Chih-li. The franchise
  was restricted, but the returns for the first elections showed nearly
  1000 voters for each representative. The first meetings of the
  assemblies were held in October 1909.

The Civil Service.--The bureaucratic element is a vital feature in the government of China,
the holding of office being almost the only road to distinction. Officials are by the Chinese
called collectively Kwan (rulers or magistrates) but are known to foreigners as mandarins (q.v.).
The mandarins are divided into nine degrees, distinguished by the buttons worn on the top of
their caps. These are as follows:--first and highest, a plain red button; second, a flowered
red button; third, a transparent blue button; fourth, an opaque blue button; fifth, an uncoloured
glass button; sixth, an opaque white shell button; seventh, a plain gilt button; eighth, a
gilt button with flowers in relief; ninth, a gilt button with engraved flowers. The buttons
indicate simply rank, not office. The peacock feathers worn in their hats are an order granted
as reward of merit, and indicate neither rank nor office. The Yellow Jacket similarly is a
decoration, the most important in China.

The ranks of the civil service are recruited by means of examinations. Up to the beginning
of 1906 the subjects in which candidates were examined were purely Chinese and literary with
a smattering of history. In 1906 this system was modified and an official career was opened
to candidates who had obtained honours in an examination in western subjects (see § Education).
The old system is so closely identified with the life of China that some space must be devoted
to a description of it.

  As a general rule students preparing for the public examination read
  with private tutors. There were neither high schools nor universities
  where a regular training could be got. In most of the provincial
  capitals, and at some other places, there were indeed institutions
  termed colleges, supported to some extent from public funds, where
  advanced students could prosecute their studies; but before the
  movement initiated by the viceroy Chang Chih-tung after the
  China-Japan War of 1894, they hardly counted as factors in the
  national education. The private tutors, on the other hand, were
  plentiful and cheap. After a series of preliminary trials the student
  obtained his first qualification by examination held before the
  literary chancellor in the prefecture to which he belonged. This was
  termed the Siuts'ai, or licentiate's degree, and was merely a
  qualification to enter for the higher examinations. The number of
  licentiate degrees to be given was, however, strictly limited; those
  who failed to get in were set back to try again, which they might do
  as often as they pleased. There was no limit of age. Those selected
  next proceeded to the great examination held at the capital of each
  province, once in three years, before examiners sent from Peking for
  the purpose. Here again the number who passed was strictly limited.
  Out of 10,000 or 12,000 competitors only some 300 or 350 could obtain
  degrees. The others, as before, must go back and try again. This
  degree, termed Chü jên, or provincial graduate, was the first
  substantial reward of the student's ambition, and of itself qualified
  for the public service, though it did not immediately nor necessarily
  lead to active employment. The third and final examination took place
  at Peking, and was open to provincial graduates from all parts of the
  empire. Out of 6000 competitors entering for this final test, which
  was held triennially, some 325 to 350 succeeded in obtaining the
  degree of Chin shih, or metropolitan graduate. These were the
  finally selected men who became the officials of the empire.

  Several other doors were, however, open by which admission to the
  ranks of bureaucracy could be obtained. In the first place, to
  encourage scholars to persevere, a certain number of those who failed
  to reach the chü jên, or second degree, were allowed, as a reward of
  repeated efforts, to get into a special class from which selection for
  office might be made. Further, the government reserved to itself the
  right to nominate the sons and grandsons of distinguished deceased
  public servants without examination. And, lastly, by a system of
  "recommendation," young men from favoured institutions or men who had
  served as clerks in the boards, might be put on the roster for
  substantive appointment. The necessities of the Chinese government
  also from time to time compelled it to throw open a still wider door
  of entry into the civil service, namely, admission by purchase. During
  the T'aip'ing rebellion, when the government was at its wits' end for
  money, formal sanction was given to what had previously been only
  intermittently resorted to, and since then immense sums of money have
  been received by the sale of patents of rank, to secure either
  admission to office or more rapid promotion of those already employed.
  As a result of this policy, the country has been saddled with
  thousands of titular officials far in excess of the number of
  appointments to be given away. Deserving men were kept waiting for
  years, while inferior and less capable officials were pushed ahead,
  because they had money wherewith to bribe their way. Nevertheless the
  purchase system admitted into the service a number of men free from
  that bigoted adherence to Confucian doctrine which characterizes the
  literary classes, and more in touch with modern progress.

  All candidates who succeed in entering the official ranks are eligible
  for active employment, but as the number of candidates is far in
  excess of the number of appointments a period of weary waiting ensues.
  A few of the best scholars get admitted at once into the Hanlin
  college or into one or other of the boards at Peking. The rest are
  drafted off in batches to the various provinces to await their turn
  for appointment as vacancies occur. During this period of waiting they
  are termed "expectants" and draw no regular pay. Occasional service,
  however, falls in their way, as when they are commissioned for special
  duty in outlying districts, which they perform as Wei yuens, or
  deputies of the regular officials. The period of expectancy may be
  abridged by recommendation or purchase, and it is generally supposed
  that this last lever must invariably be resorted to to secure any
  lucrative local appointment. A poor but promising official is often,
  it is said, financed by a syndicate of relations and friends, who look
  to recoup themselves out of the customary perquisites which attach to
  the post. Appointments to the junior provincial posts are usually left
  to the provincial government, but the central government can always
  interfere directly. Appointments to the lucrative posts of customs,
  taot'ai, at the treaty ports are usually made direct from Peking,
  and the officer selected is neither necessarily nor usually from the
  provincial staff. It would perhaps be safe to say that this
  appointment has hitherto always been the result of a pecuniary
  arrangement of greater or less magnitude.

    Bribery and torture.

  During the first five years (1906-1910) of the new method, by which
  candidates for the civil service were required, in addition to Chinese
  classics, to have a knowledge of western science, great efforts were
  made in several provinces to train up a better class of public
  official. The old system of administration had many theoretical
  excellencies, and there had been notable instances of upright
  administration, but the regulation which forbade a mandarin to hold
  any office for more than three years made it the selfish interest of
  every office-holder to get as much out of the people within his
  jurisdiction as he possibly could in that time. This corruption in
  high places had a thoroughly demoralizing effect. While among the
  better commercial classes Chinese probity in business relations with
  foreigners is proverbial, the people generally set little or no value
  upon truth, and this has led to the use of torture in their courts of
  justice; for it is argued that where the value of an oath is not
  understood, some other means must be resorted to to extract evidence.

  Justice.--The Chih-Hsien or district magistrate decides ordinary
  police cases; he is also coroner and sheriff, he hears suits for
  divorce and breach of promise, and is a court of first instance in all
  civil cases; "the penalty for taking a case first to a higher court is
  fifty blows with the bamboo on the naked thigh."[37] Appeal from the
  Hsien court lies to the Fu, or prefectural court, and thence cases
  may be taken to the provincial judge, who signs death warrants, while
  there are final courts of appeal at Peking. Civil cases are usually
  settled by trade gilds in towns and by village elders, or by
  arbitration in rural districts. Reference has been made to the use of
  torture. Flogging is the only form of torture which has been allowed
  under the Manchus. The obdurate witness is laid on his face, and the
  executioner delivers his blows on the upper part of the thighs with
  the concave side of a split bamboo, the sharp edges of which mutilate
  the sufferer terribly. The punishment is continued until the man
  either supplies the evidence required or becomes insensible.
  Punishment by bamboo was formally abolished by imperial edict in 1905,
  and other judicial reforms were instituted. They remained largely
  inoperative, and even in Shanghai, under the eyes of foreign
  residents, gross cases of the infliction of torture occurred in
  1909.[38]

  For capital offences the usual modes of inflicting the extreme penalty
  of the law are--in bad cases, such as parricides, "cutting to pieces,"
  and for less aggravated crimes either strangulation or decapitation.
  The culprit who is condemned to be "cut to pieces" is fastened to a
  cross, and while thus suspended cuts are made by the executioner on
  the fleshy parts of the body; and he is then beheaded. Strangulation
  is reserved for lesser degrees of guilt, it being considered a
  privilege to pass out of life with a whole body. When it has been
  granted to a criminal of rank thus to meet his end, a silken cord is
  sent to him at his own home. No explanatory message is considered
  necessary, and he is left to consummate his own doom. Popular
  sentiment regards decapitation as a peculiarly disgraceful mode of
  death. Constant practice makes the executioners wonderfully expert in
  the performance of their office. No block or resting-place for the
  head is used. The neck is simply outstretched to its full length by
  the aid of an assistant, and one blow invariably leaves the body
  headless.

    Consular jurisdiction.

  The laws are in accord with the principle which regards the family as
  a unit. Thus there is no bankruptcy law--if a debtor's own estate will
  not suffice to pay his debts the deficiency must be made good by his
  relatives; if a debtor absconds his immediate family are imprisoned.
  By analogy if one member of a party commits an offence and the guilty
  person cannot be detected, the whole party must suffer. Foreigners
  residing in China resented the application of this principle of law to
  themselves. As a result extra-territorial rights were sought by
  European powers. They were secured by Russia as early as 1689, but it
  was not until 1843 that any other nation acquired them. In that year
  Great Britain obtained the right to try British subjects by its own
  consuls, a right secured in more explicit terms by the United States
  and France in 1844. Now eighteen powers, including Japan, have
  consular courts for the trial of their own subjects according to the
  laws of their native lands. Mixed courts have also been established,
  that is, a defendant is tried in the court of his own nationality, the
  court giving its decision under the supervision of a representative of
  the plaintiff's nationality. In practice the Chinese have seldom sent
  representatives to sit on the bench of consular courts, but, as the
  Europeans lack confidence in the administration of Chinese justice, no
  suit brought by a foreigner against a Chinese is decided without the
  presence of an assessor of the plaintiff's nationality.

    Army.

  Defence.--The Chinese constitution in the period before the reform
  edicts of 1905-1906 provided for two independent sets of military
  organizations--namely, the Manchu army and the several provincial
  armies. On the establishment of the dynasty in 1644 the victorious
  troops, composed mainly of Manchus, but including also Mongols and
  Chinese, were permanently quartered in Peking, and constituted a
  hereditary national army. The force was divided into eight banners,
  and under one or other of these all Manchus and all the descendants of
  the members of other nationalities were enrolled. They form the bulk
  of the population of the "Tatar city" of Peking. Each adult male was
  by birth entitled to be enrolled as a soldier, and by virtue of his
  enrolment had a right to draw rations--i.e. his allowance of the
  tribute rice, whether on active service or not. Detachments from one
  or other of the banners were stationed as garrisons in the chief
  provincial centres, as at Canton, Fuchow and Hang-chow, &c., and their
  descendants still occupy the same position. As a fighting force the
  Manchu garrisons both in the capital and in the provinces had long
  become quite effete. In the capital, however, the élite of the
  Manchu soldiery were formed into a special corps termed the Peking
  Field Force. Its nominal strength was 20,000, the men were armed and
  drilled after the European fashion, and fairly well paid. There were
  other corps of picked Manchus better paid and better armed than the
  ordinary soldier, and it was computed that in 1901 the Manchu army in
  or near Peking could muster 40,000, all more or less efficient.

  The second organization was termed the army of the Green Standard,
  being the Chinese provincial forces. The nominal strength was from
  20,000 to 30,000 for each province, or about 500,000 in all; the
  actual strength was about one-third of this. They were enrolled to
  keep the peace within their own province, and resembled a militia or
  local constabulary rather than a national army. They were generally
  poorly paid and equally badly drilled and armed.

  The only real fighting force which China possessed at the beginning of
  the 20th century was made up of certain special corps which were not
  provided for in the constitution, and consequently used to be termed
  yung, "braves," or irregulars, but had acquired various distinctive
  names. They were enlisted by provincial governors, and all had some
  smattering of foreign drill. They were also fairly well paid and
  armed. After the Chino-Japanese War of 1894-95 some of these corps
  were quartered near Peking and Tientsin, and came generally to be
  spoken of as the Army of the North.

  An imperial decree issued in 1901 after the Boxer rising ordered the
  reorganization of the military forces of the empire, and on provincial
  lines something was accomplished--especially in Chih-li under Yuan
  Shih-k'ai, who practically created "the Army of the North." It was
  not, however, until after the Russo-Japanese War that determined
  efforts were made to organize a national army on western lines; an
  army which should be responsible to the central government and not
  dependent upon the provincial administrations. A decree of 1905
  provided (on paper) for training schools for officers in each of the
  provinces, middle grade military schools in selected provinces, and a
  training college and military high school in Peking. The Army Board
  was reorganized and steps taken to form a general staff. Considerable
  progress had been made by 1910 in the evolution of a body of efficient
  officers. In practice the administration remained largely
  provincial--for instance the armament of the troops was provided by
  the provincial governors and was far from uniform. The scheme[39]
  contemplated the creation of a force about 400,000 strong in 36
  divisions and in two armies, the northern and the southern.
  Recruitment is on the voluntary principle, except in the case of the
  Manchus, who apparently enter the new army instead of the "eight
  banners." The terms of service are three years with the colours, three
  in the reserve and four in the territorial army. The Japanese system
  of training is followed. Reservists are called out for 30 days every
  year and the territorialists for 30 days every other year.

  Up to 1909 six divisions and one mixed brigade of the northern army
  had been organized in Shan-tung, Chih-li and Ho-nan; elsewhere three
  divisions and six mixed brigades; total strength about 60,000 with 350
  guns. (These figures do not include all the provincial foreign trained
  troops.) The efficiency of the troops varied; the northern army was
  superior to the others in training and armament. About a third of the
  60,000 men of the new army were in 1909 stationed in Manchuria (See
  also § History.)

  An imperial edict of the 15th of September 1907 reorganized the army
  of the Green Standard. It was placed under the control of the minister
  of war and formed in battalions and squadrons. The duty of the troops
  in peace time remained much as previously. In war they pass under the
  control of regular officers, though their use outside their own
  provinces does not seem to be contemplated.

    Navy.

  The Chinese navy in 1909 consisted of the 4300 ton cruiser "Hai Chi"
  (two 8-in., ten 4.7-in. guns) of 24 knot original speed, three 3000
  ton cruisers, "Hai Yung," "Hai Schew" and "Hai Shen" (three 6-in.,
  eight 4-in. guns) of 19.5 knot original speed, some modern gunboats
  built in Japan, a few miscellaneous vessels and some old torpedo
  boats. With the destruction of the northern fleet by the Japanese at
  the capture of Wei-hai-wei in 1895, the Chinese navy may be said to
  have ceased to exist. Previously it consisted of two divisions, the
  northern and southern, of which the former was by far the more
  formidable. The southern was under the control of the viceroy of
  Nanking, and took no part in the Chino-Japanese War. While the
  northern fleet was grappling in a death-struggle, the southern was
  lying snugly in the Yangtsze waters, the viceroy of Nanking apparently
  thinking that as the Japanese had not attacked him there was no reason
  why he should risk his ships.

  The New Scheme.--An edict of the 15th of July 1909 created a naval
  and military advisory board. Nimrod Sound, centrally situated on the
  coast of Cheh-kiang, was chosen as naval base, and four naval schools
  were ordered to be established; a navigation school at Chifu, an
  engineering school at Whampoa, a school for naval artificers at
  Fuchow, and a gunnery and musketry school at Nimrod Sound. A superior
  naval college was founded at Peking. The coast defences were placed
  under the control of the naval department, and the reorganization of
  the dockyards undertaken. During 1910 orders for cruisers were placed
  abroad.

  Arsenals and Dockyards.--After the loss of Port Arthur, China
  possessed no dockyard which could dock vessels over 3000 tons. Many
  years ago the Chinese government established at Fuchow a shipbuilding
  yard, placing it in the hands of French engineers. Training schools
  both for languages and practical navigation were at the same time
  organized, and a training ship was procured and put under the command
  of a British naval officer. Some twenty-five or thirty small vessels
  were built in the course of as many years, but gradually the whole
  organization was allowed to fall into decay. Except for petty repairs
  this establishment was in 1909 valueless to the Chinese government.
  There were also small dockyards at Kiang-nan (near Shanghai), Whampoa
  and Taku. There are well-equipped arsenals at Shanghai and at
  Tientsin, but as they are both placed up shallow rivers they are
  useless for naval repairs. Both are capable of turning out heavy guns,
  and also rifles and ammunition in large quantities. There are also
  military arsenals at Nanking, Wuchang, Canton and Chêngtu.

  Forts.--A great number of forts and batteries have been erected
  along the coast and at the entrance to the principal rivers. Chief
  among these, now that the Taku forts formerly commanding the entrance
  to Tientsin have been demolished, are the Kiangyin forts commanding
  the entrance to the Yangtsze, the Min forts at the entrance of the
  Fuchow river, and the Bogue forts at the entrance to the Canton river.
  These are supplied with heavy armament from the Krupp and Armstrong
  factories.

Finance.

In fiscal matters, as for many other purposes, the Chinese empire is an agglomeration of a
number of quasi-independent units. Each province has a complete administrative staff, collects
its own revenue, pays its own civil service, and other charges placed upon it, and out of the
surplus contributes towards the expenses of the imperial government a sum which varies with
the imperiousness of the needs of the latter and with its own comparative wealth or poverty.
The imperial government does not collect directly any part of the revenues, unless the imperial
maritime customs be excepted, though these, too, pass through the books of the provincial authorities.[40]

It has hitherto been extremely difficult to obtain anything like trustworthy figures for the
whole revenue of China, for the reason that no complete statistics are published by the central
government at Peking.[41] The only available data are, first, the returns published by the
imperial maritime customs for the duties levied on foreign trade; and, secondly, the memorials
sent to Peking by the provincial authorities on revenue matters, certain of which are published
from time to time in the Peking Gazette. These are usually fragmentary, being merely reports
which the governor has received from his subordinates, detailing, as the case may be, the yield
of the land tax or the likin for his particular district, with a dissertation on the causes
which have made it more or less than for the previous period. Or the return may be one detailing
the expenditure of such and such a department, or reporting the transmission of a sum in reply
to a requisition of the board of revenue, with a statement of the source from which it has
been met. It is only by collating these returns over a long period that anything like a complete
statement can be made up. And even then these returns do not represent anything like the total
of taxation paid by the people, but, as far as they go, they may be taken to represent the
volume of taxation on which the Peking government can draw revenue.

The following table, taken from a memorandum by Sir Robert Hart, dated the 25th of March 1901,
shows the latest official estimate (up to 1910) of the revenue and expenditure of China:--

            Revenue.
                                   Taels.[42]
  Land tax                       26,500,000
  Provincial duties               1,600,000
      "      receipts (various)   1,000,000
  Grain commutation               3,100,000
  Salt gabelle                   13,500,000
  Li-kin                         16,000,000
  Native customs                  2,700,000
  Maritime customs:--
    General cargo                17,000,000
    Foreign opium                 5,000,000
    Native opium                  1,800,000
                                 ----------
      Total                      88,200,000

             Expenditure.
                                   Taels.
  Provincial                     20,000,000
  Military and naval             35,000,000
  Metropolitan                   10,000,000
  Bannermen (Manchu "soldiers")   1,380,000
  Palace                          1,100,000
  Customs                         3,600,000
  Legations                       1,000,000
  River works                       940,000
  Railways                          800,000
  Loans                          24,000,000
  Contingent reserve              3,300,000
                                -----------
      Total                     101,120,000

A calculation of revenue from all sources published by the Shanghai Shen Pao in 1908, apparently
derived from official sources, gave a total revenue of 105,000,000 taels, or about 15 million
sterling. This sum is obviously less than the actual figures. In 1907 Mr H.B. Morse, commissioner
of customs and statistical secretary in the inspectorate general of customs, drew up the following
table based on the amounts presumed to be paid by the tax payer:--

  +-----------------------+------------+-------------+------------+
  |                       |  Imperial  |  Provincial |   Local    |
  |                       |  Adminis-  |   Adminis-  |  Adminis-  |
  |                       |  tration.  |   tration.  |  tration.  |
  +-----------------------+------------+-------------+------------+
  |                       |   Taels.   |    Taels.   |   Taels.   |
  |   I. Land Tax         | 25,887,000 |  67,060,000 |  9,315,000 |
  |  II. Tribute          |  7,420,000 |  15,582,000 |  2,300,000 |
  | III. Native Customs   |  3,790,000 |   1,290,000 |    249,000 |
  |  IV. Salt Gabelle     | 13,050,000 |  26,000,000 | 25,000,000 |
  |   V. Miscellaneous    |  3,856,000 |   5,998,000 |    985,000 |
  |  VI. Foreign Customs  | 31,169,000 |   3,942,000 |  1,230,000 |
  | VII. Li-kin           | 13,890,060 |  22,502,000 |  3,639,000 |
  +-----------------------+------------+-------------+------------+
  |      Total            | 99,062,000 | 142,374,000 | 42,718,000 |
  +-----------------------+------------+-------------+------------+

Mr Morse adds that the grand total shown, taels 284,150,000[43] "is an obviously insufficient
sum on which to maintain the fabric of government in an empire like China, but it has been
reached by calculations based on a few known facts and ... is offered as throwing some light
on a subject veiled in obscurity."[44]

The service of the foreign debt, together with the pressure of other needs--such as the cost
of education and the army--made more manifest than previously the chaos of the Chinese fiscal
system. A scheme to reform the national finances was promulgated under an edict of the 11th
of January 1909, but it did not appear to be of a practical character.

  Sources of Revenue. I. Land Tax.--In China, as in most oriental
  countries, the land has from time immemorial been the mainstay of the
  revenue. In the early years of the present dynasty there was levied
  along with the land tax a poll tax on all adult males, but in 1712 the
  two were amalgamated, and the whole burden was thrown upon land,
  families not possessing land being thereafter exempted from taxation.
  At the same time it was decreed that the amount of the land tax as
  then fixed should be permanent and settled for all time coming. It
  would appear from the records that this promise has been kept as far
  as the central government has been concerned. In all its many
  financial difficulties it does not seem ever to have tried to increase
  the revenue by raising the land tax. The amount of tax leviable on
  each plot is entered on the title deed, and, once entered, it cannot
  be changed.[45] The tax on almost all lands is thus stated to be so
  much in silver and so much in rice, wheat or whatever the principal
  crop may be. Except in two provinces, however, the grain tax is now
  commuted and paid in silver. The exceptions are Kiang-su and
  Cheh-kiang, which still send forward their taxes in grain. The value
  of the grain forwarded (generally called tribute rice) is estimated at
  taels 6,500,000. The total collection in silver, as reported by the
  responsible officials, amounts in round numbers to taels 25,000,000.
  The total yield of the land tax, therefore, is taels 31,500,000, or
  say £4,725,000. It will readily be granted that for such a large
  country as China this is a very insignificant one. In India the land
  tax yields about £20,000,000, and China has undoubtedly a larger
  cultivated area, a larger population, and soil that is on the whole
  more fertile; but it is certain that this sum by no means represents
  the amounts actually paid by the cultivators. It is the sum which the
  various magistrates and collectors have to account for and remit in
  hard cash. But as nothing is allowed them for the costs of collection,
  they add on a percentage beforehand to cover the cost. This they
  usually do by declaring the taxes leviable not in silver, but in
  copper "cash", which indeed is the only currency that circulates in
  country places, and by fixing the rate of exchange to suit themselves.
  Thus while the market rate is, say, 1500 cash to the tael, they
  declare by general proclamation that for tax-paying purposes cash will
  be received at the rate of 3500 or 4000 to the tael. Thus while the
  nominal land tax in silver remains the same it is in effect doubled or
  trebled, and, what is worse, no return is made or account required of
  the extra sums thus levied. Each magistrate or collector is in effect
  a farmer. The sum standing opposite the name of his district is the
  sum which he is bound to return under penalty of dismissal, but all
  sums which he can scrape together over and above are the perquisites
  of office less his necessary expenses. Custom, no doubt, sets bounds
  to his rapacity. If he went too far he would provoke a riot; but one
  may safely say there never is any reduction, what change can be
  effected being in the upward direction. According to the best
  information obtainable a moderate estimate of the sums actually paid
  by the cultivators would give two shillings per acre. This on an
  estimate of the area under cultivation should give for the eighteen
  provinces £19,000,000 as being actually levied, or more than four
  times what is returned.

  2. The Salt Duty.--The trade in salt is a government monopoly. Only
  licensed merchants are allowed to deal in it, and the import of
  foreign salt is forbidden by the treaties. For the purpose of salt
  administration China is divided into seven or eight main circuits,
  each of which has its own sources of production. Each circuit has
  carefully defined boundaries, and salt produced in one circuit is not
  allowed to be consigned into or sold in another. There are great
  differences in price between the several circuits, but the consumer is
  not allowed to buy in the cheapest market. He can only buy from the
  licensed merchants in his own circuit, who in turn are debarred from
  procuring supplies except at the depot to which they belong.
  Conveyance from one circuit to another is deemed smuggling, and
  subjects the article to confiscation.

  Duty is levied under two heads, the first being a duty proper, payable
  on the issue of salt from the depot, and the second being likin levied
  on transit or at the place of destination. The two together amount on
  an average to about taels 1.50 per picul of 133-1/2 lb or 3s. 9d. per
  cwt. The total collection returned by the various salt collectorates
  amounts to taels 13,500,000 (£2,025,000) per annum. The total
  consumption of salt for all China is estimated at 25 million piculs,
  or nearly 1-1/2 million tons, which is at the rate of 9 lb per annum
  per head of the population. If the above amount of taels 1.50 were
  uniformly levied and returned, the revenue would be 37-1/2 million
  taels instead of 13-1/2. In this calculation, however, no allowance is
  made for the cost of collection.

  3. Likin on General Merchandise.--By the term likin is meant a tax
  on inland trade levied while in transit from one district to another.
  It was originally a war tax imposed as a temporary measure to meet the
  military expenditure required by the T'aip'ing and Mahommedan
  rebellions of 1850-1870. It is now one of the permanent sources of
  income, but at the same time it is in form as objectionable as a tax
  can be, and is equally obnoxious to the native and to the foreign
  merchant. Tolls or barriers are erected at frequent intervals along
  all the principal routes of trade, whether by land or water, and a
  small levy is made at each on every conceivable article of commerce.
  The individual levy is small, but over a long transit it may amount to
  15 or 20%. The objectionable feature is the frequent stoppages with
  overhauling of cargo and consequent delays. By treaty, foreign goods
  may commute all transit dues for a single payment of one-half the
  import tariff duty, but this stipulation is but indifferently
  observed. It must also be remembered, per contra, that dishonest
  foreign merchants will take out passes to cover native-owned goods.
  The difficulty in securing due observance of treaty rights lies in the
  fact that the likin revenue is claimed by the provincial authorities,
  and the transit dues when commuted belong to the central government,
  so that the former are interested in opposing the commutation by every
  means in their power. As a further means of neutralizing the
  commutation they have devised a new form of impost, viz. a terminal
  tax which is levied on the goods after the termination of the transit.
  The amount and frequency of likin taxation are fixed by provincial
  legislation--that is, by a proclamation of the governor. The levy is
  authorized in general terms by an imperial decree, but all details are
  left to the local authorities. The yield of this tax is estimated at
  taels 13,000,000 (£l,950,000), a sum which probably represents
  one-third of what is actually paid by the merchants, the balance being
  costs of collection.

  4. Imperial Maritime Customs.--The maritime customs is the one
  department of finance in China which is managed with probity and
  honesty, and this it owes to the fact that it is worked under foreign
  control. It collects all the duties leviable under the treaties on the
  foreign trade of China, and also all duties on the coasting trade so
  far as carried on by vessels of foreign build, whether Chinese or
  foreign owned. It does not control the trade in native craft, the
  so-called junk trade, the duties on which are still levied by the
  native custom-house officials. By arrangement between the British and
  Chinese governments the foreign customs levy at the port of entry a
  likin on Indian opium of taels 80 per chest, in addition to the tariff
  duty of taels 30. This levy frees the opium from any further duty on
  transit into the interior. The revenue of the maritime customs rose
  from taels 8,200,000 in 1865 to taels 35,111,000 in 1905.

  5. Native Customs,--The administration of the native customs
  continues to be similar to what prevailed in the maritime customs
  before the introduction of foreign supervision. Each collector is
  constituted a farmer, bound to account for a fixed minimum sum, but
  practically at liberty to retain all he may collect over and above. If
  he returns more he may claim certain honorary rewards as for extra
  diligence, but he generally manages to make out his accounts so as to
  show a small surplus, and no more. Only imperfect and fragmentary
  returns of the native collectorates have been published, but the total
  revenue accruing to the Chinese government from this source did not
  appear up to 1900 much to exceed two million taels (£300,000). In
  November 1901 native customs offices within 15 m. of a treaty port
  were placed under the control of the maritime customs, their revenues
  having been hypothecated for the service of the Boxer indemnity. The
  result was that the amount of the native customs collected by the
  commissioners of customs increased from taels 2,206,000 in 1902 to
  taels 3,699,000 in 1906.

  6. Duty on Native Opium.--The collection of the duty on opium is in
  the hands of the provincial officials, but they are required to
  rendera separate account of duty and likin collected on the drug, and
  to hold the sum at the disposal of the board of revenue at Peking. The
  annual import into China of Indian opium used to amount to about
  50,000 chests, the exact amount of opium imported in 1904 being 54,750
  piculs, on which the Chinese government received from duty and likin
  combined about 5-1/2 million taels (£825,000). The total amount of
  native-grown opium was estimated in 1901 at about 400,000 chests
  (53,000,000 lb), and if this were taxed at taels 60 per chest, which
  in proportion to its price was a similar rate to that levied on Indian
  opium, it should give a revenue of 24 million taels. Compared with
  this the sums actually levied, or at least returned by the local
  officials as levied, were insignificant. The returns gave a total levy
  for all the eighteen provinces of only taels 2,200,000 (£330,000). The
  anti-opium smoking campaign initiated by the Chinese government in
  1905 affected the revenue both by the decreased importation of the
  drug and the decrease in the area under poppy cultivation in China. In
  1908 the opium likin revenue had fallen to taels 3,800,000.

  7. Miscellaneous.--Besides the main and regular sources of income,
  the provincial officials levy sums which must in the aggregate amount
  to a very large figure, but which hardly find a place in the returns.
  The principal are land transfer fees, pawnbrokers' and other licences,
  duties on reed flats, commutation of corvée and personal services, &c.
  The fee on land transfers is 3%, and it could be shown, from a
  calculation based on the extent and value of the arable land and the
  probable number of sales, that this item alone ought to yield an
  annual return of between one and two millions sterling. Practically
  the whole of this is absorbed in office expenses. Under this heading
  should also be included certain items which though not deemed part of
  the regular revenue, have been so often resorted to that they cannot
  be left out of account. These are the sums derived from sale of office
  or of brevet rank, and the subscriptions and benevolences which under
  one plea or another the government succeeds in levying from the
  wealthy. Excluding these, the government is always ready to receive
  subscriptions, rewarding the donor with a grant of official rank
  entitling him to wear the appropriate "button." The right is much
  sought after, and indeed there are very few Chinamen of any standing
  that are not thus decorated, for not only does the button confer
  social standing, but it gives the wearer certain very substantial
  advantages in case he should come into contact with the law courts.
  The minimum price for the lowest grade is taels 120 (£18), and more of
  course for higher grades. The proceeds of these sales go directly to
  the Peking government, and do not as a rule figure in the provincial
  returns. The total of the miscellaneous items accruing for the benefit
  of the government is estimated at taels 5,500,000.

  Expenditure.--In regard to expenditure a distinction has to be drawn
  between that portion of the revenue which is controlled by the central
  government, and that controlled by the several provincial authorities.
  As the provinces collect the revenue, and as the authorities there are
  held responsible for the peace, order and good government of their
  respective territories, it follows that the necessary expenses of the
  provinces form a sort of first charge on the revenue. (As the tables
  given show, the provinces spend the greater part of the revenue
  collected.) The board of revenue at Peking, which is charged with a
  general supervision of finance matters all over the empire, makes up
  at the end of the year a general estimate of the funds that will be
  required for imperial purposes during the ensuing year, and apportions
  the amount among the several provinces and the several collectorates
  in each province. The estimate is submitted to the emperor, and, when
  sanctioned, instructions are sent to all the viceroys and governors in
  that sense, who, in turn, pass them on to their subordinate officers.
  In ordinary times these demands do not materially vary from year to
  year, and long practice has created a sort of equilibrium between
  imperial and provincial demands. The remittances to the capital are,
  as a rule, forwarded with reasonable regularity, mostly in the form of
  hard cash. There is, however, a constant pull going on between Peking
  and the provinces--the former always asking for more, the latter
  resisting and pleading impecuniosity, yet generally able to find the
  amounts required. The expenses which the central government has to
  meet are:--(1) Imperial household; (2) pay of the Manchu garrison in
  and about Peking; (3) costs of the civil administration in the
  capital; (4) cost of the army so far as the expenses are not borne by
  the provinces; (5) naval expenses;[46] (6) foreign loans--interest and
  sinking fund. To meet all these charges the Peking government for
  several years up to 1900 drew on the provinces for about taels
  20,000,000 (£3,000,000), including the value of the tribute rice,
  which goes to the support of the Manchu bannermen.[47] No estimates
  are furnished of the sums allowed under such heading. The imperial
  household appears to receive in silver about taels 1,500,000
  (£225,000) but it draws besides large supplies in kind from the
  provinces, e.g. silks and satins from the imperial factories at
  Su-chow and Hangchow, porcelain from the Kiang-si potteries, &c., the
  cost of which is defrayed by the provinces. The imperial government
  has also at its disposal the revenue of the foreign customs. Prior to
  the Chino-Japanese war of 1894-95 this revenue, which, after allowing
  for the costs of collection, amounted to about 20,000,000 taels
  (£3,000,000), was nominally shared with the provinces in the
  proportion of four-tenths and six-tenths. The whole of the customs
  revenue is now pledged to foreign bondholders and absorbed by the
  service of the several loans. Besides supplying its own wants the
  imperial government has to provide for outlying portions of the empire
  which are unable to maintain themselves--(1) Manchuria, (2) Kan-suh
  and the central Asian dominion, (3) the south-western provinces of
  Yun-nan, Kwei-chow and Kwang-si. Manchuria, or, as it is termed, the
  north-east frontier defence, costs about taels 2,000,000 over and
  above its own resources. The central Asian territories constitute a
  drain on the imperial government of about taels 4,000,000 a year. This
  is met by subsidies from Sze-ch'uen, Shan-si, Ho-nan and other wealthy
  provinces. Yun-nan, Kwei-chow and Kwang-si require aids aggregating
  taels 2,000,000 to keep things going.

  External Debt.--Prior to the war with Japan in 1894 the foreign debt
  of China was almost nil. A few trifling loans had been contracted at 7
  and 8%, but they had been punctually paid off, and only a fraction of
  one remained. The expenses of the war, however, and the large
  indemnity of taels 230,000,000 (£34,500,000) which Japan exacted,
  forced China for the first time into the European market as a serious
  borrower. The sum of £6,635,000 was raised in 1894-1895 in four small
  loans at 6 or 7% interest. In 1895 a Franco-Russian loan of fr.
  440,000,000 (£15,820,000) was raised in Paris. Two Anglo-German loans,
  each of £16,000,000 (one in 1896, the other in 1898) were raised
  through the Hong Kong and Shanghai Bank. The Franco-Russian loan bears
  4% interest, the first Anglo-German 5%, the second 4½%. The foreign
  loans contracted up to 1900 amounted altogether to £54,455,000. The
  charges for interest and sinking fund, which amounted to over
  £3,000,000, were secured on the revenue of the maritime customs, and
  on the likin taxes of certain specified provinces. The net income from
  these two sources amounted to over taels 24,000,000, equivalent at
  existing rate of exchange to £3,400,000, which was amply sufficient.

  Between 1899 and 1907 (both years inclusive) £12,200,000 was raised on
  loan for railway purposes. The charges on the first loan--for
  £2,300,000--were secured on the revenue of the Imperial Northern
  railway, the interest being 5%. The same interest was secured on the
  other loans, save one for £1,000,000 in which the Hong Kong government
  was concerned, which bears 4% interest.

  The foreign debt also includes the indemnities exacted in 1901 by the
  powers for the Boxer outrages. These indemnities, secured on imperial
  revenue, are divided into five series amounting altogether to
  £67,500,000, the amount payable on these indemnities (at 4% interest)
  in 1907 being £2,824,425. The burden of meeting this amount was
  apportioned between the eighteen provinces--the sums allocated ranging
  from taels 2,500,000 for Kiang-su to taels 300,000 for Kwei-chow. In
  1909 the grand total of China's indebtedness exceeded £140,000,000 and
  the interest called for the payment of £7,427,450 in gold.

  Banks and Banking.--Native banks for purposes of inland exchange are
  to be found in most large cities. They are private banks using their
  own capital, and seldom receiving deposits from the public. The best
  known are the Shan-si banks, which have branches all over the empire.
  They work on a small capital, seldom over £50,000 each, and do a small
  but profitable business by selling their drafts on distant places.
  None of them issues notes, although they are not debarred from doing
  so by law. They lend money on personal security, but do not advance
  against shipments of goods. In some places there are small local
  banks, usually called cash shops, which issue paper notes for small
  sums and lend money out on personal security. The notes never reach
  more than a very limited local circulation, and pass current merely on
  the credit of the institution. There is no law regulating the
  formation of banks or the issue of notes. Pawnshops occupy a
  prominent position in the internal economy of China. They lend on
  deposit of personality at very high rates, 18 and 24%, and they
  receive deposits of money from the public, usually allowing 6 to 10%.
  They are the real banks of deposit of the country, and the better
  class enjoy good credit. Foreign Banks do a large business at
  Shanghai and other treaty ports, and a Government Bank has been
  established at Peking.

  Currency.--In the commercial treaty between Great Britain and China
  of 1902 China agreed to provide a uniform national coinage. An
  imperial decree of October 1908 commanded the introduction of a
  uniform tael currency; but another decree of May 1910 established a
  standard currency dollar weighing 72 candareens (a candareen is the
  100th part of the tael ounce) and subsidiary coins of fixed values in
  decimal ratio. This decree properly enforced would introduce a much
  needed stability into the monetary system of China.

  The actual currency (1910) consists of (l) Silver, which may be
  either uncoined ingots passing current by weight, or imported coins,
  Mexican dollars and British dollars; and (2) Copper "cash," which
  has no fixed relation to silver. The standard is silver, the unit
  being the Chinese ounce or tael, containing 565 grains. The tael is
  not a coin, but a weight. Its value in sterling consequently
  fluctuates with the value of silver; in 1870 it was worth about 6s.
  8d., in 1907 it was worth 3s. 3d.[48] The name given in China to
  uncoined silver in current use is "sycee." It is cast for convenience
  sake into ingots weighing one to 50 taels. Its average fineness is
  916.66 per 1000. When foreign silver is imported, say into Shanghai,
  it can be converted into currency by a very simple process. The bars
  of silver are sent to a quasi-public office termed the "Kung K'u," or
  public valuers, and by them melted down and cast into ingots of the
  customary size. The fineness is estimated, and the premium or
  betterness, together with the exact weight, is marked in ink on each
  ingot. The whole process only occupies a few hours, and the silver is
  then ready to be put into use. The Kung K'u is simply a local office
  appointed by the bankers of the place, and the weight and fineness are
  only good for that locality. The government takes no responsibility in
  the matter, but leaves merchants and bankers to adjust the currency as
  they please. For purposes of taxation and payment of duties there is a
  standard or treasury tael, which is about 10% heavier than the tael of
  commerce in use at Shanghai. Every large commercial centre has its own
  customary tael, the weight and therefore the value of which differ
  from that of every other. Silver dollars coined in Mexico, and British
  dollars coined in Bombay, also circulate freely at the open ports of
  trade and for some distance inland, passing at a little above their
  intrinsic value. Carolus dollars, introduced long ago and no longer
  coined, are retained in current use in several parts of the interior,
  chiefly the tea-growing districts. Being preferred by the people, and
  as the supply cannot be added to, they have reached a considerable
  premium above their intrinsic value. Provincial mints in Canton,
  Wuchang, and other places have issued silver coins of the same weight
  and touch as the Mexican dollar, but very few have gone into use. As
  they possess no privilege in debt-paying power over imported Mexican
  dollars there is no inducement for the people to take them up unless
  they can be had at a cheaper rate than the latter, and these are laid
  down at so small a cost above the intrinsic value that no profit is
  left to the mint. The coinage has in consequence been almost
  discontinued. Subsidiary coins, however, came largely into use, being
  issued by the local mints. One coin "the hundredth part of a dollar"
  proved very popular (the issue to the end of 1906 being computed at
  12,500,000,000), but at rates corresponding closely to the intrinsic
  value of the metal in it. The only coin officially issued by the
  government--up to 1910--was the so-called copper cash. It is a small
  coin which by regulation should weigh 1/16 of a tael, and should
  contain 50 parts of copper, 40 of zinc, and 10 of lead or tin, and it
  should bear a fixed ratio to silver of 1000 cash to one tael of
  silver. In practice none of these conditions was observed. Being
  issued from a number of mints, mostly provincial, the standard was
  never uniform, and in many cases debased. Excessive issues lowered the
  value of the coins, and for many years the average exchange was 1600
  or more per tael. The rise in copper led to the melting down of all
  the older and superior coins, and as for the same reason coining was
  suspended, the result was an appreciation of the "cash," so that a
  tael in 1909 exchanged for about 1220 cash or about 35 to a penny
  English. Inasmuch as the "cash" bore no fixed relation to silver, and
  was, moreover, of no uniform composition, it formed a sort of mongrel
  standard of its own, varying with the volume in circulation.
     (G.J.; X.)

V. HISTORY

(A)--European Knowledge of China up to 1615.

China as known to the Ancients.--The spacious seat of ancient civilization which we call China
has been distinguished by different appellations, according as it was reached by the southern
sea-route or by the northern land-route traversing the longitude of Asia. In the former aspect
the name has nearly always been some form of the name Sin, Chin, Sinoe, China. In the latter
point of view the region in question was known to the ancients as the land of the Seres, to
the middle ages as the empire of Cathay. The name of Chin has been supposed (doubtfully) to
be derived from the dynasty of Ts'in, which a little more than two centuries before the Christian
era enjoyed a vigorous existence, uniting all the Chinese provinces under its authority, and
extending its conquests far beyond those limits to the south and the west. The mention of the
Chinas in ancient Sanskrit literature, both in the laws of Manu and in the Mah[=a]bh[=a]rata,
has often been supposed to prove the application of the name long before the predominance of
the Ts'in dynasty. But the coupling of that name with the Daradas, still surviving as the people
of Dardistan, on the Indus, suggests it as more probable that those Chinas were a kindred race
of mountaineers, whose name as Shinas in fact likewise remains applied to a branch of the Dard
races. Whether the Sinim of the prophet Isaiah should be interpreted of the Chinese is probably
not susceptible of any decision; by the context it appears certainly to indicate a people of
the extreme east or south. The name probably came to Europe through the Arabs, who made the
China of the farther east into Sîn, and perhaps sometimes into Thîn. Hence the Thîn of the
author of the Periplus of the Erythraean Sea, who appears to be the first extant writer to
employ the name in this form (i.e. assuming Max Müller's view that he belongs to the 1st century);
hence also the Sinae and Thinae of Ptolemy.

  It has often indeed been denied that the Sinae of Ptolemy really
  represented the Chinese. But if we compare the statement of Marcianus
  of Heraclea (a mere condenser of Ptolemy), when he tells us that the
  "nations of the Sinae lie at the extremity of the habitable world, and
  adjoin the eastern Terra Incognita," with that of Cosmas, who says, in
  speaking of Tzinista, a name of which no one can question the
  application to China, that "beyond this there is neither habitation
  nor navigation"--we cannot doubt the same region to be meant by both.
  The fundamental error of Ptolemy's conception of the Indian Sea as a
  closed basin rendered it impossible but that he should misplace the
  Chinese coast. But considering that the name of Sin has come down
  among the Arabs from time immemorial as applied to the Chinese,
  considering that in the work of Ptolemy this name certainly
  represented the farthest known East, and considering how inaccurate
  are Ptolemy's configurations and longitudes much nearer home, it seems
  almost as reasonable to deny the identity of his India with ours as to
  deny that his Sinae were Chinese.

  If we now turn to the Seres we find this name mentioned by classic
  authors much more frequently and at an earlier date, for the passages
  of Eratosthenes (in Strabo), formerly supposed to speak of a parallel
  passing through Thinae--[Greek: dia Thinôn]--are now known to read
  correctly [Greek: di'Athênôn]. The name Seres indeed is familiar to
  the Latin poets of the Augustan age, but always in a vague way, and
  usually with a general reference to Central Asia and the farther East.
  We find, however, that the first endeavours to assign more accurately
  the position of this people, which are those of Mela and Pliny,
  gravitate distinctly towards China in its northern aspect as the true
  ideal involved. Thus Mela describes the remotest east of Asia as
  occupied by the three races (proceeding from south to north), Indians,
  Seres and Scyths; just as in a general way we might still say that
  eastern Asia is occupied by the Indies, China and Tartary.

  Ptolemy first uses the names of Sera and Serice, the former for
  the chief city, the latter for the country of the Seres, and as usual
  defines their position with a precision far beyond what his knowledge
  justified--the necessary result of his system. Yet even his definition
  of Serice is most consistent with the view that this name indicated
  the Chinese empire in its northern aspect, for he carries it eastward
  to the 180th degree of longitude, which is also, according to his
  calculation, in a lower latitude the eastern boundary of the Sinae.

  Ammianus Marcellinus devotes some paragraphs to a description of the
  Seres and their country, one passage of which is startling at first
  sight in its seeming allusion to the Great Wall, and in this sense it
  has been rashly interpreted by Lassen and by Reinaud. But Ammianus is
  merely converting Ptolemy's dry tables into fine writing, and speaks
  only of an encircling rampart of mountains within which the spacious
  and happy valley of the Seres lies. It is true that Ptolemy makes his
  Serice extend westward to Imaus, i.e. to Pamir. But the Chinese
  empire did so extend at that epoch, and we find Lieut. John Wood in
  1838 speaking of "China" as lying immediately beyond Pamir, just as
  the Arabs of the 8th century spoke of the country beyond the Jaxartes
  as "Sin," and as Ptolemy spoke of "Serice" as immediately beyond
  Imaus.

  If we fuse into one the ancient notices of the Seres and their
  country, omitting anomalous statements and manifest fables, the result
  will be somewhat as follows: "The region of the Seres is a vast and
  populous country, touching on the east the ocean and the limits of the
  habitable world, and extending west to Imaus and the confines of
  Bactria. The people are civilized, mild, just and frugal, eschewing
  collisions with their neighbours, and even shy of close intercourse,
  but not averse to dispose of their own products, of which raw silk is
  the staple, but which included also silk-stuffs, fine furs, and iron
  of remarkable quality." That is manifestly a definition of the
  Chinese.

  That Greek and Roman knowledge of the true position of so remote a
  nation should at best have been somewhat hazy is nothing wonderful.
  And it is worthy of note that the view entertained by the ancient
  Chinese of the Roman empire and its inhabitants, under the name of
  Ta-thsin, had some striking points of analogy to those views of the
  Chinese which are indicated in the classical descriptions of the
  Seres. There can be no mistaking the fact that in this case also the
  great object was within the horizon of vision, yet the details
  ascribed to it are often far from being true characteristics, being
  only the accidents of its outer borders.

The Medieval Cathay.--"Cathay" is the name by which the Chinese empire was known to medieval
Europe, and it is in its original form (Kitai) that China is still known in Russia and to most
of the nations of Central Asia. West of Russia this name has long ceased to be a geographical
expression, but it is associated with a remarkable phase in the history of geography and commerce.
The name first became known to Europe in the 13th century, when the vast conquests of Jenghiz
Khan and his house drew a new and vivid attention to Asia. For some three centuries previously
the northern provinces of China had been detached from indigenous rule, and subject to northern
conquerors. The first of these foreign dynasties was of a race called Khitán issuing from the
basin of the Sungari river, and supposed (but doubtfully) to have been of the blood of the
modern Tunguses. The rule of this race endured for two centuries and originated the application
of the name Khitât or Khitâï to northern China. The dynasty itself, known in Chinese history
as Liao, or "Iron," disappeared from China 1123, but the name remained attached to the territory
which they had ruled.

The Khitán were displaced by the Nüchih (Nyûché or Chûrché) race, akin to the modern Manchus.
These reigned, under the title of Kin, or "Golden," till Jenghiz and his Mongols invaded them
in turn. In 1234 the conquest of the Kin empire was completed, and the dynasty extinguished
under Ogdai (Ogotai), the son and successor of Jenghiz Khan. Forty years later, in the reign
of Kublai, grandson and ablest successor of Jenghiz, the Mongol rule was extended over southern
China (1276), which till then had remained under a native dynasty, the Sung, holding its royal
residence in a vast and splendid city, now known as Hang-chow, but then as Ling-nan, or more
commonly as King-sze, i.e. the court. The southern empire was usually called by the conquerors
Mantzi (or as some of the old travellers write, Mangi), a name which western Asiatics seem
to have identified with Mâchîn (from the Sanskrit Mahâchîn), one of the names by which China
was known to the traders from Persian and Arabian ports.

The conquests of Jenghiz and his successors had spread not only over China and the adjoining
East, but westward also over all northern Asia, Persia, Armenia, part of Asia Minor and Russia,
threatening to deluge Christendom. Though the Mongol wave retired, as it seemed almost by an
immediate act of Providence, when Europe lay at its feet, it had levelled or covered all political
barriers from the frontier of Poland to the Yellow Sea, and when western Europe recovered from
its alarm, Asia lay open, as never before or since, to the inspection of Christendom. Princes,
envoys, priests--half-missionary, half-envoy--visited the court of the great khan in Mongolia;
and besides these, the accidents of war, commerce or opportunity carried a variety of persons
from various classes of human life into the depths of Asia. "'Tis worthy of the grateful remembrance
of all Christian people," says an able missionary friar of the next age (Ricold of Monte Croce),
"that just at the time when God sent forth into the Eastern parts of the world the Tatars to
slay and to be slain, He also sent into the West his faithful and blessed servants, Dominic
and Francis, to enlighten, instruct and build up in the faith." Whatever on the whole may be
thought of the world's debt to Dominic, it is to the two mendicant orders, but especially to
the Franciscans, that we owe a vast amount of information about medieval Asia, and, among other
things, the first mention of Cathay. Among the many strangers who reached Mongolia were (1245-1247)
John de Plano Carpini and (1253) William of Rubruk (Rubruquis) in French Flanders, both Franciscan
friars of high intelligence, who happily have left behind them reports of their observations.

  Carpini, after mentioning the wars of Jenghiz against the Kitai,
  goes on to speak of that people as follows: "Now these Kitai are
  heathen men, and have a written character of their own... They seem,
  indeed, to be kindly and polished folks enough. They have no beard,
  and in character of countenance have a considerable resemblance to the
  Mongols" [are Mongoloid, as our ethnologists would say], "but are
  not so broad in the face. They have a peculiar language. Their betters
  as craftsmen in every art practised by man are not to be found in the
  whole world. Their country is very rich in corn, in wine, in gold and
  silver, in silk, and in every kind of produce tending to the support
  of mankind." The notice of Rubruk, shrewder and more graphic, runs
  thus: "Farther on is Great Cathay, which I take to be the country
  which was anciently called the Land of the Seres. For the best silk
  stuffs are still got from them... The sea lies between it and India.

  Here we have not only what is probably the first European notice of
  paper-money, but a partial recognition of the peculiarity of Chinese
  writing, and a perception that puts to shame the perverse boggling of
  later critics over the identity of these Cathayans with the Seres of
  classic fame.

But though these travellers saw Cathayans in the bazaars in the great khan's camps, the first
actual visitors of Cathay itself were the Polo family, and it is to the book of Marco Polo's
recollections mainly that Cathay owed the growing familiarity of its name in Europe during
the 14th and 15th centuries. It is, however, a great mistake to suppose, as has often been
assumed, that the residence of the Polos in that country remained an isolated fact. They were
but the pioneers of a very considerable intercourse, which endured till the decay of the Mongol
dynasty in Cathay, i.e. for about half a century.

We have no evidence that either in the 13th or 14th century Cathayans, i.e. Chinese, ever reached
Europe, but it is possible that some did, at least in the former century. For, during the campaigns
of Hulagu in Persia (1256-1265), and the reigns of his successors, Chinese engineers were employed
on the banks of the Tigris, and Chinese astrologers and physicians could be consulted at Tabriz.
Many diplomatic communications passed between the Hulaguid Ilkhans and the princes of Christendom.
The former, as the great khan's liegemen, still received from him their seals of state; and
two of their letters which survive in the archives of France exhibit the vermilion impressions
of those seals in Chinese characters--perhaps affording the earliest specimen of that character
which reached western Europe.

Just as the Polos were reaching their native city (1295), after an absence of a quarter of
a century, the forerunner of a new series of travellers was entering southern China by way
of the Indian seas. This was John of Monte Corvino, another Franciscan who, already some fifty
years of age, was plunging single-handed into that great ocean of paganism to preach the gospel
according to his lights. After years of uphill and solitary toil converts began to multiply;
coadjutors joined him. The Papal See became cognizant of the harvest that was being reaped
in the far East. It made Friar John archbishop in Cambaluc (or Peking), with patriarchal authority,
and sent him batches of suffragan bishops and preachers of his own order. The Roman Church
spread; churches and Minorite houses were established at Cambaluc, at Zayton or Tsuan-chow
in Fu-kien, at Yang-chow and elsewhere; and the missions flourished under the smile of the
great khan, as the Jesuit missions did for a time under the Manchu emperors three centuries
and a half later. Archbishop John was followed to the grave, about 1328, by mourning multitudes
of pagans and Christians alike. Several of the bishops and friars who served under him have
left letters or other memoranda of their experience, e.g. Andrew, bishop of Zayton, John of
Cora, afterwards archbishop of Sultania in Persia, and Odoric of Pordenone, whose fame as a
pious traveller won from the vox populi at his funeral a beatification which the church was
fain to seal. The only ecclesiastical narrative regarding Cathay, of which we are aware, subsequent
to the time of Archbishop John, is that which has been gathered from the recollections of Giovanni
de' Marignolli, a Florentine Franciscan, who was sent by Pope Benedict XII. with a mission
to the great khan, in return for one from that potentate which arrived at Avignon from Cathay
in 1338, and who spent four years (1342-1346) at the court of Cambaluc as legate of the Holy
See. These recollections are found dispersed incoherently over a chronicle of Bohemia which
the traveller wrote by order of the emperor Charles IV., whose chaplain he was after his return.

But intercourse during the period in question was not confined to ecclesiastical channels.
Commerce also grew up, and flourished for a time even along the vast line that stretches from
Genoa and Florence to the marts of Cheh-kiang and Fu-kien. The record is very fragmentary and
imperfect, but many circumstances and incidental notices show how frequently the remote East
was reached by European traders in the first half of the 14th century--a state of things which
it is very difficult to realize when we see how all those regions, when reopened to knowledge
two centuries later, seemed to be discoveries as new as the empires which, about the same time,
Cortes and Pizarro were conquering in the West.

  This commercial intercourse probably began about 1310-1320. John of
  Monte Corvino, writing in 1305, says it was twelve years since he had
  heard any news from Europe; the only Western stranger who had arrived
  in all that time being a certain Lombard chirurgeon (probably one of
  the Patarini who got hard measure at home in those days), who had
  spread the most incredible blasphemies, about the Roman Curia and the
  order of St Francis. Yet even on his first entrance to Cathay Friar
  John had been accompanied by one Master Peter of Lucolongo, whom he
  describes as a faithful Christian man and a great merchant, and who
  seems to have remained many years at Peking. The letter of Andrew,
  bishop of Zayton (1326), quotes the opinion of Genoese merchants at
  that port regarding a question of exchanges. Odoric, who was in Cathay
  about 1323-1327, refers for confirmation of the wonders which he
  related of the great city of Cansay (i.e. King-sze, or Hang-chow) to
  the many persons whom he had met at Venice since his return, who had
  themselves been witnesses of those marvels. And Marignolli, some
  twenty years later, found attached to one of the convents at Zayton,
  in Fu-kien, a fondaco or factory for the accommodation of the
  Christian merchants.

  But by far the most distinct and notable evidence of the importance
  and frequency of European trade with Cathay, of which silk and silk
  goods formed the staple, is to be found in the commercial hand-book
  (c. 1340) of Francesco Balducci Pegolotti, a clerk and factor of the
  great Florentine house of the Bardi, which was brought to the ground
  about that time by its dealings with Edward III. of England. This
  book, called by its author Libro di divisamenti di Paesi, is a sort
  of trade-guide, devoting successive chapters to the various ports and
  markets of his time, detailing the nature of imports and exports at
  each, the duties and exactions, the local customs of business,
  weights, measures and money. The first two chapters of this work
  contain instructions for the merchant proceeding to Cathay; and it is
  evident, from the terms used, that the road thither was not
  unfrequently travelled by European merchants, from whom Pegolotti had
  derived his information. The route which he describes lay by Azov,
  Astrakhan, Khiva, Otrar (on the Jaxartes), Almálik (Gulja in Ili),
  Kan-chow (in Kan-suh), and so to Hang-chow and Peking. Particulars are
  given as to the silver ingots which formed the currency of Tatary, and
  the paper-money of Cathay. That the ventures on this trade were not
  insignificant is plain from the example taken by the author to
  illustrate the question of expenses on the journey, which is that of a
  merchant investing in goods there to the amount of some £12,000 (i.e.
  in actual gold value, not as calculated by any fanciful and fallacious
  equation of values).

  Of the same remarkable phase of history that we are here considering
  we have also a number of notices by Mahommedan writers. The
  establishment of the Mongol dynasty in Persia, by which the great khan
  was acknowledged as lord paramount, led (as we have already noticed in
  part) to a good deal of intercourse. And some of the Persian
  historians, writing at Tabriz, under the patronage of the Mongol
  princes, have told us much about Cathay, especially Rashiduddin, the
  great minister and historian of the dynasty (died 1318). We have also
  in the book of the Moorish traveller Ibn Batuta, who visited China
  about 1347-1348, very many curious and in great part true notices,
  though it is not possible to give credence to the whole of this
  episode in his extensive travels.

  About the time of the traveller first named the throne of the
  degenerate descendants of Jenghiz began to totter to its fall, and we
  have no knowledge of any Frank visitor to Cathay in that age later
  than Marignolli; missions and merchants alike disappear from the
  field. We hear, indeed, once and again of ecclesiastics despatched
  from Avignon, but they go forth into the darkness, and are heard of no
  more. Islam, with all its jealousy and exclusiveness, had recovered
  its grasp over Central Asia; the Nestorian Christianity which once had
  prevailed so widely was vanishing, and the new rulers of China
  reverted to the old national policy, and held the foreigner at arm's
  length. And when the veil rose
  before the Portuguese and Spanish explorers of the 16th century, those
  names are heard no more. In their stead we have China, Peking,
  Hangchow, Chinchew, Canton. Not only were the old names forgotten, but
  the fact that those places had ever been known before was forgotten
  also. Gradually new missionaries went forth from Rome--Jesuits and
  Dominicans now; new converts were made, and new vicariates
  constituted; but the old Franciscan churches, and the Nestorianism
  with which they had battled, had alike been swallowed up in the ocean
  of pagan indifference. In time a wreck or two floated to the
  surface--a MS. Latin Bible or a piece of Catholic sculpture; and when
  the intelligent missionaries called Marco Polo to mind, and studied
  his story, one and another became convinced that Cathay and China were
  one.

  Cathay had been the aim of the first voyage of the Cabots in 1496, and
  it continued to be the object of many adventurous voyages by English
  and Hollanders to the N.W. and N.E. till far on in the 16th century.
  At least one memorable land-journey also was made by Englishmen, of
  which the exploration of a trade-route to Cathay was a chief
  object--that in which Anthony Jenkinson and the two Johnsons reached
  Bokhara by way of Russia in 1558-1559. The country of which they
  collected notices at that city was still known to them only as
  Cathay, and its great capital only as Cambaluc.

  Cathay as a supposed separate entity may be considered to come to an
  end with the journey of Benedict Goës, the lay-Jesuit. This admirable
  person was, in 1603, despatched through Central Asia by his superiors
  in India with the specific object of determining whether the Cathay of
  old European writers and of modern Mahommedans was or was not a
  distinct region from that China of which parallel marvels had now for
  some time been recounted. Benedict, as one of his brethren pronounced
  his epitaph, "seeking Cathay found Heaven." He died at Suchow, the
  frontier city of China, but not before he had ascertained that China
  and Cathay were the same. After the publication of the narrative of
  his journey (in the Expeditio Christiana apud Sinas of Trigault,
  1615) inexcusable ignorance alone could continue to distinguish
  between them, but such ignorance lingered many years longer.   (H. Y.)

(B)--Chinese Origins.

Chinese literature contains no record of any kind which might justify us in assuming that the
nucleus of the nation may have immigrated from some other part of the world; and the several
ingenious theories pointing to Babylonia, Egypt, India, Khotan, and other seats of ancient
civilization as the starting-points of ethnical wanderings must be dismissed as untenable.
Whether the Chinese were seated in their later homes from times immemorial, as their own historians
assume, or whether they arrived there from abroad, as some foreign scholars have pretended,
cannot be proved to the satisfaction of historical critics. Indeed, anthropological arguments
seem to contradict the idea of any connexion with Babylonians, Egyptians, Assyrians, or Indians.
The earliest hieroglyphics of the Chinese, ascribed by them to the Shang dynasty (second millennium
B.C.), betray the Mongol character of the nation that invented them by the decided obliquity
of the human eye wherever it appears in an ideograph. In a pair of eyes as shown in the most
ancient pictorial or sculptural representations in the west, the four corners may be connected
by a horizontal straight line; whereas lines drawn through the eyes of one of the oldest Chinese
hieroglyphics cross each other at a sharp angle, as shown in the accompanying diagrams:--

This does not seem to speak for racial consanguinity any more than the well-known curled heads
and bearded faces of Assyrian sculptures as compared to the straight-haired and almost beardless
Chinese. Similarities in the creation of cultural elements may, it is true, be shown to exist
on either side, even at periods when mutual intercourse was probably out of the question; but
this may be due to uniformity in the construction of the human brain, which leads man in different
parts of the world to arrive at similar ideas under similar conditions, or to prehistoric connexions
which it is as impossible for us to trace now as is the origin of mankind itself. Our standpoint
as regards the origin of the Chinese race is, therefore, that of the agnostic. All we can do
is to reproduce the tradition as it is found in Chinese literature. This tradition, as applying
to the very earliest periods, may be nothing more than historical superstition, yet it has
its historical importance. Supposing it were possible to prove that none of the persons mentioned
in the Bible from Adam down to the Apostles ever lived, even the most sceptical critic would
still have to admit that the history of a great portion of the human race has been materially
affected by the belief in the examples of their alleged lives. Something similar may be said
of the alleged earliest history of the Chinese with its model emperors and detestable tyrants,
the accounts of which, whether based on reality or not, have exercised much influence on the
development of the nation.

