Blankets for Miss Dolly can be made of the soft Shetland wool and Germantown zephyr. For bed
blankets, cream color, with stripes of two or more colors, are very attractive. Carriage blankets
made with white centers and colored borders, or with a tone for the center and a shade for
the border, are a great addition to the carriage, as well as a source of comfort to the little
occupant. Bind the edges with ribbon and run a narrow one through the beading formed by taking
out the extra rods. This ribbon can be run all around the center part by leaving out a few
woof threads at the top and bottom.

[Sidenote: Knitting silk]

By stringing a close warp of knitting silk and extending it the required length, shawl-straps,
suspenders, belts, and garters can be woven. The rods should be adjusted for the desired width.
Finish at each end with pieces of silk elastic of the same color, and with buckles.

[Sidenote: Angora wool]

Angora wool makes pretty Tam O'Shanters. Initials can be woven in any article.

[Sidenote: Books of patterns]

Small books containing cross-stitch designs can be found at the German and French embroidery
stores in large cities--sometimes, but rarely, at the art counter in department stores. The
"Kindergarten Guides" can be obtained at most public libraries, or a kindergartner friend will
be glad to loan one.

Chapter Six

DIRECTIONS FOR DYEING

[Sidenote: Diamond dyes]

A few hints with regard to dyeing raffia, cheese cloth, white cord for hammocks, and other
materials, may be found useful. For raffia use the Diamond dyes which are intended for wool
or silk. Wash the raffia first. The color will be improved by soaking the raffia a day in alum
water, one-half pound to the gallon. Dye once used can be kept in an air-tight dish and reheated
whenever needed.

[Sidenote: Vegetable dyes]

Should one be interested in vegetable dyes much information can be obtained at the public libraries.
Dr. Washington Matthews speaks of Indian dyes in his article on the Navajo weavers mentioned
in this book. "How to Make and How to Mend" also contains some good suggestions about dyes.

[Sidenote: Mrs. Candace Wheeler's pamphlet]

In her little pamphlet, Home Industries and Domestic Weavings, published by the Associated
Artists, 115 East 23d Street, New York City, Mrs. Candace Wheeler has an interesting chapter
on "Rag-Carpet Weaving." Her suggestions for dyeing rags apply equally to yarns and to other
materials which may be used on hand looms for children. Through her kind permission I am allowed
to quote the following suggestions:

[Sidenote: Uses of the indigo tub]

"In the early days of this present century a dye tub was as much a necessity in every house
as a spinning-wheel, and the reëstablishment of it in houses where weaving is practiced is
almost a necessity; in fact, it would be of far greater use at present than in the days when
it was only used to dye the wool needed for family knitting and weaving. All shades of blue,
from sky-blue to blue-black, can be dyed in the indigo tub; and it has the merit of being a
cheap as well as an almost perfectly fast dye. It could be used for dyeing warps as well as
fillings, and I have before spoken of the difficulty, indeed almost impossibility, of procuring
indigo-dyed carpet yarn.

[Sidenote: Blue universally used]

[Sidenote: Green]

"Blue is, perhaps, more universally useful than any other color in rag-rug making, since it
is safe for both cotton and wool, and covers a range from the white rug with blue warp, the
blue rug with white warp, through all varieties of shade to the dark blue, or clouded blue
and green rug, also, upon white warp. It can also be used in connection with yellow or orange,
or with copperas or walnut dye, in different shades of green; and, in short, unless one has
exceptional advantages in buying rags from woolen mills, I can hardly imagine a profitable
industry of rag-weaving established in any farmhouse without the existence of an indigo dyeing tub.

[Sidenote: Red]

[Sidenote: Copperas]

[Sidenote: Dull green]

"The next important color is red. Fortunately, red warps can be bought which are reasonably
fast, but the only way to procure red rags in quantity is to dye them, and, although the dye
is somewhat expensive, there are two colors, turkey red and cardinal red, which are extremely
good for the purpose. Probably these could be bought at wholesale from dealers in chemicals
and dyestuffs at much cheaper rates than by the small paper from the druggist or the country
store. Copperas gives a fast nankeen-colored dye, and this is very useful in making a dull
green by an after dip in the indigo tub.

[Sidenote: Domestic dyes]

[Sidenote: Nut stains]

[Sidenote: Leaf stains]

[Sidenote: Iron rust]

[Sidenote: Ink stains]

"There are some valuable domestic dyes which are within the reach of every country dweller,
the cheapest and best of which is walnut or butternut stain. This is made by steeping the bark
of the tree or the shell of the nut until the water is dark with color, and setting it with
alum. It will give various shades of yellow, brown, dark brown, and green brown, according
to the strength of the decoction or the state of the bark or nut when used. If the bark of
the nut is used when green, the result will be a yellow brown; and this stain is also valuable
in making a green tint when an after dip of blue is added. Leaves and tree-bark will give a
brown with a very green tint, and these different shades used in different rags woven together
give a very agreeably clouded effect. Walnut stain will itself set or fasten some others; for
instance, pokeberry stain, which is a lovely crimson, can be made reasonably fast by setting
it with walnut juice. Iron rust is the most indelible of all stains, besides being a most agreeable
yellow, and it is not hard to obtain, as bits of old iron left standing in water will soon
manufacture it. It would be a good use for old tin saucepans, and various other house utensils
which have come to a state of mischievousness instead of usefulness. Ink gives various shades
of gray according to its strength, but it would be cheaper to purchase it in the form of logwood
than as ink.

[Sidenote: Vegetable dyes]

"There is a strong and well-founded preference among art producers in favor of vegetable dyes,
and yet it is possible to use certain of the aniline colors, especially in combination, in
safe and satisfactory ways.

[Sidenote: The variety of shades]

"Everyone who undertakes domestic weaving must know how to dye one or two good colors. Black,
of course, and the half-black, or gray, which a good colorist of my acquaintance calls a light
black. Indigo blue equally, of course, in three shades of very dark and light. Here are seven
shades from the three dyes, and when we add white we see that the weaver is already very well
equipped with a variety of color. The eight shades can be still further enlarged by clouding
and mixing. The mixing can be done in two ways, either by carding two tints together before
spinning, or by twisting them together when spun.

[Sidenote: Carding and twisting]

"Carding together gives a very much better effect in wool, while twisting together is preferable
in cotton.

[Sidenote: Blue]

[Sidenote: Pink]

[Sidenote: Gray]

[Sidenote: Clouding]

"Dark blue and white and medium blue and white wool carded together will give two blue grays
which cannot be obtained by dyeing, and are most valuable. White and red carded together give
a lovely pink, and any shade of gray can be made by carding different proportions of black
and white or half-black and white. A valuable gray is made by carding black and white wool
together, and by black wool I mean the natural black or brownish wool of black sheep. Mixing
of deeply dyed and white wool together in carding is, artistically considered, a very valuable
process, as it gives a softness of color which it is impossible to get in any other way. Clouding,
which is almost an indispensable process for rug centers, can be done by winding certain portions
of the skeins or hanks of yarn very tightly and closely with twine before they are thrown into
the dye pot. The winding must be close enough to prevent the dye penetrating to the yarn. This
means, of course, when the clouding is to be of white and another color. If it is to be two
shades of one color, as a light and medium blue, the skein is first dyed a light blue, and
after drying, is wound as I have described, and thrown again into the dye pot, until the unwound
portions become the darker blue which we call medium."

[Sidenote: Mrs. Albee's manual]

Through the courtesy of Mrs. Helen R. Albee, who has done much to revive an interest in rug-weaving,
I am allowed to quote the following detailed suggestions on the subject of dyeing from her
helpful manual, Abnákee Rugs. This little manual treats fully of the "Abnákee Rug Industry,"
the "Materials," "Methods of Work," and "Dye Formulas." It was issued through the Riverside
Press in 1901.

Speaking of combinations of color, Mrs. Albee says:

[Sidenote: Combinations of color]

[Sidenote: Safe tones]

[Sidenote: Colors in rugs]

[Sidenote: Use of white]

"A careful study of the effects of colors upon each other will show that colors which are in
themselves beautiful are often inharmonious when combined. Also, a little of a color may be
good, when a larger proportion seems to destroy the balance or harmony. Success in this matter
is largely a matter of close observation and experience, although some persons have a natural
feeling or instinct regarding color which is seldom in error. Strong colors should never be
used, especially greens. Though they may be modest in the piece, when worked in with other
colors, they have an unfortunate way of becoming intensified tenfold. The safest tones for
an amateur to deal with are dull gray green, yellow green, and a soft, full, but dark olive.
In striking a certain key in color it should be maintained throughout. Thus, if a full rich
color predominates, rich dark colors should be used through the whole scheme. If a light tone
is the body color, soft light tones of other colors will be found most harmonious. Thus, for
example, a rug for a library, or a hall, in which a good deal of rich terra cotta appears,
should have a border or design worked in dark blues, full shades of olive green, and dull yellow.
There is an apparent exception to this in the use of dull reds, old ivory, and black as seen
in Bokhara rugs. But if studied, the cream color is very dull, and is used in such small quantities
as to be quite subdued by the black that is used freely in the pattern. Old rose, warm golden
browns, and olive may be used effectively. A light Gobelin blue may be worked with ivory, old
pink, light dull olive, and the outlines can be either a dark yellow brown or very dark bronze
green. An ivory center is lovely with an old pink border worked in green. A tan center may
be combined with old rose, sage green, bronze green, light yellow, cream color, and dark brown
outlines. Indigo blue, forest green, and dull yellow are excellent colors when combined. A
great variety of beautiful rugs may be made by using only blue and white, and unless one wishes
to go extensively into dyeing, it might be well to choose a certain simple color scheme such
as blue and white, red, black, and ivory, and abide by it. Let it be remembered that white
in rugs is not white, neither is it a delicate cream. Unless it is decidedly yellowish or even
grayish in tone, when in combination with other colors, it becomes a staring white that is
anything but artistic. I dye my cream colors, just as much as I do dark reds or greens.

[Sidenote: Planning a color scheme for a rug]

"I have been asked many times what is the best way to plan a color scheme for a rug. This is
a point I cannot determine for another. Some may find help in making water color sketches of
what they wish to do. In my own work I never use them, as it requires making a reduced drawing
of great accuracy, and much time to color it. Often I plan a combination mentally, and match
it up from the dyed flannels I always have on hand. Other times I vary the scheme of some rug
I have already made, experimenting with different combinations, using other rugs as if they
were books of reference. I have discovered one rather curious thing, which is, that when all
my experimenting is done I find some particular color scheme fits a certain rug as no other
does. It seems to clothe or to fulfill the pattern as if it belonged personally to it. When
I once discover this elective affinity of a pattern for its special coloring, I never make
it again save in that one guise.

[Sidenote: Shading]

[Sidenote: Directions for shading]

"Much skill can be shown by an artistic worker in the use of slight shades of difference in
the same color. For example, in the plain center of a rug, several tones representing shades
of the same color will give the effect of a play of light on a silky surface, which is very
beautiful. By using material that has been dyed a trifle darker at one end of the rug, and
working in gradually lighter tones, the result is surprisingly effective. To do this, each
three or four yards should be dyed with these slight differences of tone; then when within
thirty strips of the end of one color (more or less, according to the width of the rug), work
in a broken line of the next tone all across the rug. Then use a few rows (not worked in single
rows, however) of the first color across the entire rug, then a wider broken line of the second
color. Broken lines blend better than continuous lines do. The portions of the second line
should fall above the broken spaces left in the first line (in the same way that masons lay
bricks), then a little more of the first color, using less and less of it, and increasing the
width of the second in masses, until the first color has become only broken lines upon the
ground of the second color. All the way through, any changes of color should be merged in this
way. Be sure to work this method from side to side across the rug, as the frameful is filled.

[Sidenote: Coloring]

"This is the most difficult feature of the whole handicraft, the actual coloring, and yet for
fine effects I should recommend only the use of hand-dyed materials. Goods dyed by professional
dyers are perfectly uniform in color throughout, and rugs made of such material will have nothing
of that difference of tone, that play of color, that is absolutely necessary for beauty.

[Sidenote: Dye kettles]

"In dyeing use only brass, copper, granite, or porcelain kettles, unless one goes into it on
a large scale and uses regular machinery. Brass and copper vessels are to be preferred, while
iron, or tin showing iron, are to be carefully avoided, as the mordants have a great affinity
for iron and ruin the color. I use a large brass kettle holding about five gallons.

[Sidenote: Mordants]

"For mordants I use Glauber salts and sulphuric acid, and with the weight of cloth I use, it
takes 3 oz. of Glauber salts and 3/4 oz. of sulphuric acid (full strength) to each six yards
of flannel. I use a one-ounce Phenix graduate (American standard) measuring glass, and as full
strength sulphuric acid has about twice the specific gravity of water, one should measure by
the scale engraved on the right-hand side of the glass. The left-hand scale is based upon the
standard unit of weight, which is water.

[Sidenote: Uses of acids]

"In using sulphuric acid I dilute it in a little cold water in a cup by pouring the acid on
to the water, as sulphuric acid in uniting with water causes a chemical reaction. Where a large
quantity of acid is used this reaction is accompanied by a sudden burst of steam, if the water
falls upon the acid. But in a small quantity as this, there is no possible danger of accident
if the acid is poured on the water. Sulphuric acid should be closely stoppered and used with
care, as it is corrosive, eating holes in cotton or linen fabrics. With ordinary precautions
it can be used without the least difficulty.

[Sidenote: Salts set the dyes]

"Glauber salts are too well known in commerce to need description, and are used to neutralize
the acid. The two in combination do not injure woolen fabrics, but merely set the dyes.

[Sidenote: Preparation of a dye bath]

"In preparing the dye bath allow three gallons of water, and 3/4 oz. of sulphuric acid; stir
thoroughly and add 3 oz. Glauber salts to six yards of cloth. Then add the dyestuff in required
proportions. Stir thoroughly as each ingredient is added, for the evenness of the dye depends
upon the thorough distribution of the mordants and color in the dye bath. Generally it is advised
to strain the dye before it is added, but, as an even tone is not the desired result for this
special handicraft, I never follow this suggestion.

[Sidenote: Coloring depends on temperature]

"The proper temperature for introducing the color in the bath is not over 150° F., but if one
has not a bath thermometer, the temperature must be very hot, yet far below boiling point.
Temperature plays a great part in dyeing, for if the dye bath is too hot when the cloth is
introduced, the dye, having a great avidity for wool, will be absorbed unequally by the cloth,
the ends and outside folds of the cloth absorbing more color than is desired, and the inner
folds will have less. I am not discussing the process of dyeing as it should be done on a large
scale with vats and suitable reels, etc., but as it is likely to be done by an amateur, in
a small way. When the bath is too hot, the cloth takes the dye unequally and is quite spotted.
A little irregularity is necessary for a play of color, but it should be secured in a definite
way and only to a certain degree, and not as the result of accident. If the cloth has come
out spotty, it may be redipped, having added more dye and mordants to the bath, but it will
come out a darker shade. If the bath is anywhere near the boiling point before the cloth is
dipped, reduce it by adding a quart or two of cold water."

[Sidenote: Process of dyeing yarn or raffia]

[Sidenote: Clear days are best for dyeing]

