Wednesday, July 28th.--In spite of the limitation of Questions the Member for Central Hull
still manages to extract a good deal of information from the Treasury Bench. This afternoon
he learned from Mr. LONG that the Board of Admiralty was not created solely for the purpose
of satisfying his curiosity; and from Mr. KELLAWAY that the equipment of even the most versatile
Under-Secretary does not include the gift of prophecy.

At long last the House learned the Government decision regarding the increase in railway fares.
It is to come into force on August 6th, by which time the most belated Bank-Holiday-maker should
have returned from his revels. Mr. BONAR LAW appended to the announcement a surely otiose explanation
of the necessity of the increase. Everybody knows that railways are being run at a loss, due
in the main to the increased wages of miners and railway-men. Mr. THOMAS rather weakly submitted
that an important factor was the larger number of men employed, and was promptly met with the
retort that that was because of the shorter hours worked.

Cheered by the statement of its Leader that he still hoped to get the adjournment by August
14th the House plunged with renewed zest into the final stage of the Finance Bill. Mr. BOTTOMLEY,
whose passion for accuracy is notorious, inveighed against the lack of this quality in the
Treasury Estimates. As for the war-debt, since the Government had failed to "make Germany pay,"
he urged that the principal burden should be left for posterity to shoulder.

These sentiments rather shocked Mr. ASQUITH, who, while mildly critical of Government methods,
was all in favour of "severe, stringent, drastic taxation." Mr. CHAMBERLAIN repeated his now
familiar lecture to the House of Commons, which, while accusing the Government of extravagance,
was always pressing for new forms of expenditure. In the study of economy he dislikes abstractions--except
from the pockets of the taxpayer.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Company's water is on to the house and cowshed."--Advert. in Daily
    Paper.

Now we know why our water is sometimes contaminated with milk.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "One of the most striking of the collection of exhibits of fascinating
    interest [at the Imperial War Museum] is the Air Force map for carrying
    out the British plan for bombing Berlin. Specimens of the bombs,
    weighing 3,000 pounds each, are also included in this museum of war
    souvenirs with the object of demonstrating the resources of the Empire
    and giving a stimulus to its trade."--South African Paper.

Motto for British traders: "If at first you don't succeed, try, try trinitrotoluene."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BIRTHDAY PRESENT.

I went into the morning-room with a worried frown upon my brow. Kathleen was doing the accounts
at the table.

"Kathleen," I said, "it's Veronica's birthday on Wednesday and--"

"What did you say seven eighths were?" said Kathleen. "I asked you last week."

"I can't possibly carry complicated calculations in my head from week to week," I said; "you
should have made a note of it at the time. It's Veronica's birthday on Wednesday, and what
do you think she wants?"

But Kathleen was enthralled by the greengrocer's book. "Have we really had eight cabbages this
week?" she said. "We must, I suppose. Greengrocers are generally honest; they live so near
to nature. Well, now," she shut up her books, "what were you saying, dear?"

I sighed, cleared my throat and began again. "It's Veronica's birthday on Wednesday, and what
do you think she wants? She wants," I said dramatically, "a 'frush' from the bird-shop in the
village. The ones that hang in cages outside the door."

"Well," said Kathleen, "why not?"

"Why not?" I became more than serious. "A daughter of ours has demanded for a plaything a caged
bird. Psychologically it is an important occasion. Now or never must she learn to look upon
a caged bird with horror. What I am thinking of is the psychological effect upon the child's
character. The psychological--"

"You needn't worry about Veronica's psychology," said Kathleen. "Veronica's psychology is in
the right place."

"You misunderstand the meaning of the word," I said loftily. "However, if you wish to wash
your hands of Veronica's training, if you refuse to cope with your own child, I must take it
upon myself."

"Do," said Kathleen sweetly; "I'll listen."

       *       *       *       *       *

It was Veronica's birthday. We were outside the bird-shop. The thrushes in cages hung around
the door.

Veronica lifted grave blue eyes to me trustingly. "You promised me a frush, darlin'," she said.

Veronica is small for her name and has a disarming habit of introducing terms of endearment
into her conversation.

"You didn't quite understand me," I said gently. "I said I'd think about it."

"Yes, but that means promising, doesn't it? Finking about it means promising. I fought you
meant promising. I fought all night you meant promising. Darlin'." The last word was a sentence
all by itself.

Kathleen raised her eyebrows when we came out with the bird in the cage.

"This isn't quite the moment," I said with dignity; "it's best to let her get it first and
realise afterwards."

"Let's all go to Crown Hill now," said Veronica in a voice that admitted of no denial.

       *       *       *       *       *

We were on Crown Hill. Veronica had hugged the cage to her small bosom all the way, making
little reassuring noises to its occupant.

"Now," said Kathleen, "hadn't you better begin? Isn't this the psycho--you know what moment?"

I took a deep breath and began.

"Veronica," I said, "listen to me for a moment. If you were a little bird--"

But she wasn't listening to me. She had held up the little wooden cage, opened the clasp of
the door and, with a rapt smile on her small shining face, was watching the "frush" as he soared
into the air with a sudden burst of song.

We none of us spoke till he had vanished from sight. Then Veronica broke the silence.

"It's all my very own plan," she said proudly. "I planned it all by myself. An' all my birfdays
I'm going to have one of that nasty man's frushes for a present, and we'll all free come up
here and let it out--always an' always an' for ever an' ever--right up till I'm a hundred."

"Why stop at a hundred?" I murmured, recovering myself with an effort.

But I could not escape Kathleen's eye.

"I hope you feel small," it said.

I did.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

RHYMES OF THE UNDERGROUND.

                  I.

  I never heard of Ruislip, I never saw its name,
  Till Underground advertisements had brought it into fame;
  I've never been to Ruislip, I never yet have heard
  The true pronunciation of so singular a word.

  I'd like to go to Ruislip; I'd like to feast my eyes
  On "scenes of sylvan beauty" that the posters advertise;
  But, though I long to view the spot, while I am in the dark
  About its name I dare not face the booking-office clerk.

  Suppose I ventured "Riz-lip" and in answer to his "Eh?"
  Stammered "Ruse-lip, Rise-lip, Rees-lip," just imagine how he'd say,
  "Well, where do you want to book to?" and the voices from behind,
  "Must we wait until this gentleman has ascertained his mind?"

                  II.

  The trains that stop at Down Street--(Sing willow-waly-O!)--
  They run through Hyde Park Corner as fast as they can go;
  And trains at Hyde Park Corner that stop--(Oh dearie me!)--
  Contrariwise at Down Street are "non-stop" as can be.

