    "The discovery of Saturn's rings was made by Galileo in 1610
    through his little refractory telescope."--Welsh Paper.

The difficulty with this kind of instrument is to make it shut up.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

(By Mr. Punch's Staff of Learned Clerks.)

Inevitably one's first thought on sighting A Naval History of the War (HODDER AND STOUGHTON)
is that he must be a brave skipper indeed who would take out a lone ship, however excellently
found, to cruise such controversial waters. But Sir HENRY NEWBOLT is an experienced hand, and,
though (so to speak) one finds him at times conscious of Sir JULIAN CORBETT on the sky-line,
he brings off his self-appointed task triumphantly. To drop metaphor, here is a temperate and
clearly-written history, midway between the technical and the popular, of a kind precisely
suited to the plain man who wishes a comprehensive résumé of the course of the War at sea.
For this purpose its arrangement is admirable, the story being presented first in a general
survey under dates, then in special chapters devoted to episodes or aspects, e.g., Coronel
and the Falklands (that unmatchable drama of disaster and revenge), the submarines and their
countering, and finally Jutland. Throughout, as I have said, Sir HENRY, having one of the best
stories in the world to tell, is at pains to avoid anything that even remotely approaches fine
writing. Only once have I even detected the literary man, when, in describing the strange finish
of the Königsberg, he permits himself the pleasure of calling it "the sea fight in the forest."
For the rest, the "strength and splendour" of England's greatest naval war are left to make
their own impression. I shall be astonished if such a book, having figured brilliantly as a
present this Christmas, is not treasured for generations as a work of family reference in hundreds
of British homes.

       *       *       *

The name of Mrs. BELLOC LOWNDES on the outside would alone have made me open From the Vasty
Deep (HUTCHINSON) with a pleasant anticipation of creepiness, even without the generous measure
of bogies depicted on the coloured wrapper. Having now read the story, I am bound to add (and
I can only hope that Mrs. LOWNDES will take my admission for the compliment that it really
is) that the net result has been one of slight disappointment. Briefly, I continue to prefer
the writer as a criminal, rather than a psychic, "Fat Boy." After all, once grant your ghost
and anyone can conjure it, with appropriate circumstance, at the proper moments. Wyndfell Hall
was full enough of ghosts, all ready to appear at the voluntary or involuntary instance of
a young lady named Bubbles, who was one of the Christmas house-party and the owner of a rather
uncomfortable gift of spook-raising. But beyond making themselves an occasional nuisance to
the guests I couldn't find that the phantoms did anything practical to help along such plot
as there was. Even the quite palpable fact that the host was at least a double murderer came
to proof by the ordinary process of law rather than by any supernatural revelation. Before
this I have gratefully owed to Mrs. LOWNDES the raising of my remaining hairs like quills upon
the fretful porcupine, but the ca'-canny bogies of her present story are too perfunctory to
excuse even a shiver in any but the most unsophisticated reader.

       *       *       *

It may, I suppose, be accounted for righteousness to Major-General Sir ARCHIBALD ANSON that
in About Others and Myself (MURRAY) he is so little of an egotist as to convey scarcely any
impression of what manner of man he is or what he thinks of this or that. Much more clear from
her quoted letters is the character of his grandmother, who vainly tried to keep the over-gallant
First Gentleman of Europe out of mischief. Our autobiographer gives us a plain, blunt, not
to say bald record of what must have been an interesting life. He was at Eton under KEATE;
a cadet at Woolwich, where he saw a gunner receive two hundred lashes; a gunnery subaltern
in the Crimea, where he saw many queer and unedifying things; a successful administrator in
Madagascar, Mauritius and Penang, and finally Governor of the Straits Settlements, with a K.C.M.G.
and honourable retirement to follow. But he is a man of action rather than words, and his faculty
of observation is but too often exercised upon such slender matters as that "Poor Captain Powlett
met with a misfortune on the way to Kedah. His servant laid the dinner things on the deck of
the gunboat, then went below for something and, coming up again, accidentally walked into the
middle of the crockery and glass, causing considerable destruction." Also, I think he quotes
his testimonials--those never very candid and always very dull documents--much too freely.
The best of the book is concerned with his administration work in Penang and district, where
on the evidence he seems to have kept his end up with skill and no small zeal for good government.

       *       *       *

The title of Lady (LAURA) TROUBRIDGE'S new novel, O Perfect Love (METHUEN), applies to her
V. C. hero only; with his wife it is a case of O Very Imperfect Love. Jean Chartres is a common
product of the age, the sort of girl that insists on "having a good time" and "living her life"
and "being herself" (how well one knows the jargon!). Less common, let us hope, is the woman
who would desert her husband, as Jean did, because the injuries he had received in the War
prevented him from giving her the kind of life for which she craved. Foolish rather than vicious,
she drifts into a relationship which could have had only one conclusion, if her lover, tiring
of platonics, had not prematurely pressed his demands. Thoroughly scared by his violence she
runs away and finds sanctuary with the "perfect love" of the title. In this happy solution
she had better fortune than she deserved. It is not every woman who has the good luck, when
rushing blindly out of the House of Peril into the wintry night (in a ball-dress), to find--what
had apparently escaped Jean's memory for the moment--that her faithful husband's estate is
in the immediate neighbourhood. Though Lady TROUBRIDGE'S sense of style is not impeccable she
can tell a good tale; her dialogue rings true and her characters are well observed. The trouble
with most authors of Society novels is that either they know their subject but can't write,
or that they can write but know nothing of their subject. Lady TROUBRIDGE is one of the very
few writers in this kind who both know their world and how to portray it.

       *       *       *

Mr. B. BENNION follows the vogue for confidentially descriptive covers in announcing, as a
title to his volume of angling reminiscences, that The Trout are Rising in England and South
Africa (LANE) and suggesting that here is "a book for slippered ease." One is certainly warned
not to expect anything very strenuous in its course, and indeed so placidly flow its waters
that few, perhaps, but devotees of the craft will follow it to the end. Not but what there
are metaphorical trout in it, too--enticing descriptions of bits of rivers, for instance--but
on the whole they are easy-going fish that come to bank without showing very much sporting
spirit. Here is no manual of precise information, though even old fishermen may gather a hint
or two; nor yet a guide-book to the trout-streams of two continents; not even a collection
of good stories, though anyone may come across some old friends in it. The author's yarns indeed
are numerous and, on the whole, as an angler's yarns should be, picturesque. If he does seem
to enjoy the rather feeble joke or incident as much as the other sort, that may be natural
in a book of ease, whether slippered or not. Indeed one half suspects it is as a book for his
own ease that the writer is mainly considering it, yet, taken in the right spirit and especially
if you are an enticer of trout, it may be for your ease too. Of course, if you are not an angler
and if your spirit is not right, the slipper may not fit.

       *       *       *

In the course of a long study of detective fiction I have never met any sleuths with a gift
of loquacity like that of Messrs. Corson and Gibbs, who during the first part of In the Onyx
Lobby (HODDER AND STOUGHTON) make futile efforts to trace the murderer of Sir Herbert Binney,
proprietor of Binney's Buns. Sir Herbert had gone to New York to persuade his nephew to become
the manager of an American branch of a Binney Bun factory, and, on returning late at night
to his apartment-house, was stabbed to death. Fortunately Miss CAROLYN WELLS seems to have
grown as tired of them as I did, and they give way to one Pennington Wise (whose name did not
prepossess me in his favour) and his assistant, Zizi. This couple have the authentic sleuth-touch,
and their detection of those implicated in the murder is a very ingenious piece of work. There
is so much padding in this book that if Sir Herbert had worn a tithe of it no stabber could
even have scratched him; but with judicious skipping it will wile away two or three idle hours.
And, as I said, the solution is a really skilful piece of work.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

Extract from an account of the unveiling of the portrait of Mr. ----, M.P.:--

    "It was a happy idea to unveil the portrait in a darkened room."

    Local Paper.

But after the LEVERHULME-JOHN episode we ought to have been told whose was the happy idea,
the artist's or the sitter's?