The crime of which I heard most frequently, and of which the common occurrence may be traced
to the miserable condition to which trade and commerce were, during the last few years, reduced
in France, and to that general laxity of moral conduct which even now distinguishes that country,
was Fraudulent Bankruptcy. The merchant, no longer possessing the means of making his fortune
by fair speculation, has recourse to this nefarious mode of bettering his condition. He settles
with his creditors for a small per centage; disposes of his property by fictitious sales, ventes
simulees, and thus enriches himself upon the ruin of his creditors. At a small town in the
south of France, where I for sometime resided, there were several individuals, who, it was
well known, had made their fortunes in this manner; and at Marseilles it had, as I understood,
become in some measure a common practice. The crime is seldom discovered, attended at least
with those circumstances of corroborative evidence which are necessary in bringing it to trial.
Upon detection, accompanied by complete proof, the punishment is severe. It consists in being
condemned for fourteen years, or for life, to the galleys, and in branding the delinquent with
letters denoting his crime: B F for Fraudulent Bankruptcy. At one of the trials of the Aix
assizes, at which I was present, a young man of excellent family, son of the Chevalier de St
Louis, was convicted of this crime, and although it was proved that he had been deceived by
his partner, a man of decidedly bad character, but possessed of deep cunning, he was condemned
for fourteen years to the galleys: Owing to a flaw in the process, the sentence was set aside
by the Cour de Cassation, or Supreme Court of Appeal at Paris, and a new trial was ordered.

From the same cause, which I have mentioned above, the perfection of their police, petty theft
is not of such common occurrence in France as in England. The country, in short, at the time
when we passed through it, was very quiet, and few crimes were committed; but on the disbanding
of the troops, a great change may be expected. These restless creatures must find work, or
they will make it for themselves. It is a hard question how the un-warlike Louis is to employ
them. Many talk of the necessity of sending an immense force to St Domingo; and it would appear
wise policy to devise some expedition of this nature, which would swallow up the restless,
the profligate, and the abandoned.

It is not our intention, nor indeed would the limits of our work permit, of entering into the
question of what ought to be the conduct of the King. But there is another question, from answering
which we can scarcely escape.

Are the majority of the French nation well affected to the Bourbons? This is a question which
is put to every person who returns from France. It is a natural, a most important, but a most
difficult one to answer. I endeavoured, by every method in my power, by a communication with
those gentlemen of the province where I resided, whose characters and situations entitled them
to implicit credit; by endeavouring to satisfy myself as to the real sentiments of the peasantry,
and by a perusal of those documents regarding the state of the country, which were believed
the most authentic, to acquire upon this subject something like satisfactory information. As
to the sentiments entertained at present by the generality of the French people upon this subject,
I cannot speak, but with regard to the period which I passed in France, which began in November
1814, and ended at the time of the landing of Napoleon from Elba, I have no hesitation in declaring,
that it appeared to me, that the majority of the French nation were at that time hostile to
the interests of the Bourbons. On the other hand, in consulting the same sources of information
as I have above enumerated, it was as evident that they are not generally favourable to the
restoration of the Imperial Government under Napoleon. What appeared at that period to be the
general desire of the nation, was the establishment of a new constitution, formed upon those
principles, embracing those new interests, and compatible with that new state of things which
had been created by the revolution. It was on this account that they favoured Napoleon.

The situation of France then exhibited perhaps one of the most singular pictures ever presented
to view by a civilized nation; a people without exterior commerce, and whose interior trade
and manufactures, except in some favourite spots, was almost annihilated; whose youth was yearly
drained off to supply the army, but whose agriculture has been constantly improving, which,
for the last twelve years, had been subjected to all the complicated horrors of a state of
war, but which, after all this, could yet earnestly desire a continuance of this state. A nation
where there was scarcely to be found an intermediate rank between the Sovereign and the peasantry--for
since the destruction of the ancienne noblesse, and more particularly, since all ranks have
been admitted to a participation in the dignities conferred on the military, all have become
equally aspiring, and all consider themselves upon the same level:--A nation where, notwithstanding
the division into parties, possessing the most opposite interests and opinions, and pulling
every different way, the greater part certainly desired a government similar to Napoleon's,
and would even unite to obtain it:--A nation who talked of nothing but liberty, and yet suffered
themselves to be subjected to the conscription, to the loss of their trade, to the severest
taxes, the greatest personal deprivations, and the most complete restraint in the expression
of their opinions--to the continued extortions of a military chief, the most despotic who ever
reigned in a European country, and whose acts of oppression are truly Asiatic; and who tamely
bore all this oppression, supported by their national vanity, because they wish to bear the
name of the great people: Great, because their ambition is unbounded; great as a nation of
rapacious and blood-thirsty soldiers; great in every species of immorality and vice! Who, led
away by this miserable vanity, have been false to their oaths, so recently pledged to a mild
and virtuous prince, very unfit to rule such a race of villains, because he is mild and virtuous.

But it is not generally believed, that the majority in France favoured Napoleon, though it
is but a natural consequence of the state of the country; I shall therefore enumerate the divisions
of ranks, and the sentiments of each.--All allow that the army were his friends; on that subject,
therefore, I shall say nothing.--Next to the army, let us look to the civil authorities.--All
these were in his favour--all that part of the civil authorities at least, who have the immediate
management of the people.--It is in vain that the heads of office in Paris, the miserable bodies
styled the Chambers of Parliament and the Counsellors of the realm, were favourably inclined
towards the King.--Napoleon well knew that these were not the men who rule France.--France,
as an entire kingdom, may be said to be governed by these men; but France, subdivided, is governed
by the prefects, and the gens-d'armes of Napoleon.--Not a man of these was displaced by the
King, and although they were all furious in their proclamations against the usurper, they,
with few exceptions, joined him, and these few exceptions were removed by him.--The most powerful
men in France under Napoleon were these prefects and gens-d'armes, and knowing their power,
he was always cautious in their selection; wherever he conceived that they really favoured
the Bourbon interest, he removed them.

Next, the whole class of Receveurs were his devoted friends.--These men were all continued
in place under the un-warlike reign of Louis, but where no conscription and no droits reunis
were to be enforced, they had poverty staring them in the face.--Is it unnatural that they
should favour him whose government enriches them?

To the shadows of nobility, to the ghost of aristocracy which had re-appeared under the King,
no power or influence can be attributed,--they dared not think, and could not act.

The better classes of the inhabitants of the cities, whether the traders and manufacturers,
or the bourgeoise of France, are those who were the most decided enemies of Bonaparte: but
let us look how their arm is weakened and palsied by the situation of their property.--They
have many of them purchased the lands of the emigrants at very low prices, and, in many instances,
from persons who could only bestow possession without legal tenure.--These feel uneasy in their
new possessions; they dread the ascendancy which the nobility might still obtain under their
lawful Sovereign: Napoleon came proclaiming to them that he would maintain them in their properties.
Nor were all the traders and manufacturers his enemies.--He encouraged the trade of Lyons,
for example, of Paris, of Rouen, and other interior towns, and he pitted these interior towns
against the sea-ports of Bourdeaux, Marseilles, &c. Thus, even with commercial men, he had
some friends.--And here, in mentioning Paris, I must observe, that the most slavish deference
is paid by the whole of France to the opinions, as well as the fashions, which prevail at the
capital. From the encouragement which he offered to its interior trade, from the grand works
which he was constantly carrying on, affording labour to the idle rabble; from the magnificent
spectacles supplied by his reviews, fetes, and festivities, and most of all, from the celebrated
system of gulling and stage-trick, practised by his police, and through the medium of the press--From
all these circumstances, it arises, that Napoleon was no where so much beloved as at Paris;
and Napoleon took good care that Paris afforded to all France an example such as he would wish
them to follow.--It is difficult to say why the French should tamely follow the example of
their despot; but they forgot that he was a despot, and they were not singular as a nation
in following the example of their chief, though, perhaps, they carried their obedience to a
more slavish pitch than any other people.--"En France (says Mons. Montesquieu) il en est des
manieres et de la facon de vivre, comme des modes, les Français changent des meurs selon l'age
de leur Roi,--Le Monarque pouvait meme parvenir a rendre la nation grave s'il l'avait entrepris."

Next in rank, though, from their numbers and influence, perhaps, after the army, the most powerful
body in the community, the situation of the peasants must be considered. They had either seized
upon, or purchased, at a low rate, the lands of the emigrants, and the national domains; these
they had brought into the best state of cultivation; without the interference of any one, they
directly drew the profits. The oppression in agriculture, which existed before the revolution,
whether from the authority of the Seigneurs, from the corvees, from tythes, game laws, &c.
all are done away--become rich and flourishing, they are able to pay the taxes, which, under
Napoleon, were not so severe as is generally supposed.--But they had every thing to fear from
the return of the noblesse, and from the re-establishment of the ranks and order which must
exist under the new constitution of France. Can it then be considered that the peasantry should
see their own interest in maintaining the revolutionary order of things? The more unjust their
tenure, the more cause have they to fear; and unenlightened as many of them are, their fears
once raised, will not easily be controlled. Napoleon had most politically excited alarm among
them, and they are favourably inclined towards him. This powerful body have no leaders to direct
them: The respectable and wealthy farmer, possessing great landed property; the yeoman, the
country gentleman,--all these ranks are abolished. Where the views of the Sovereign are inimical
to the peasantry, as was imagined under Louis XVIII. that body will powerfully resist him;
where they were in concert, as under Napoleon, that body became his chief support next to his
military force.

It is not enough that Louis XVIII. had never invaded their property--it is not enough that
in different shapes he issued proclamations, and assurances, that he had no such intentions,--the
peasantry felt insecure; and they dreaded the influence of his counsellors, and of the noblesse.
The low rabble of France, at all times restless, and desirous of change, were favourable to
Napoleon;--they wished for a continuance of that thoughtless dissipation, and dreadful immorality,
which he encouraged; they wished for employment in his public works,--they looked for situations
in his army.

It may then be said, that among all ranks Napoleon had friends. Who then were against him?
All those who wished for peace: all those who desired the re-establishment of the church: all
those who had the cause of morality and virtue at heart--all the good,--but, alas! in France,
they were few in number.

I have only enumerated the great and leading parties in the community. It was my intention
to have touched on the sentiments of the different professions, but I have been already too
tedious; I shall here only enumerate a few of the classes, who, as they are thrown out of bread
by the return of the Bourbons, and the new system of government, will be ever busily employed
in favouring a despotic and military government, a continuance of war, and of a conscription.

1st, All the prefects, collectors of taxes, and their agents, who were employed in the countries
subjected to Napoleon.

2d, The many officers, and under agents, employed in the conscription, and in collecting the
droits reunis.

3d, The police emissaries of all ranks, forming that enormous mass who conducted the grand
machine of espionage, directed the public spirit, and supplied information to the late Emperor.

4th, All the rich and wealthy army contractors, furnishers, &c. &c.

Having attempted to shew that the situation of the people in France was highly favourable to
the views of the usurper, let me now observe, that there are other circumstances which greatly
aided his cause.

1st, The vanity of the nation was hurt: they had not forgotten their defeat by the allies,
and the proceedings of Congress, in confining within narrow bounds, that nation, who, but a
year ago, gave laws to the continent, had tended to aggravate their feelings. It is difficult
for any nation to shrink at once into insignificance, from the possession of unlimited power;
it is impossible for France to maintain an inglorious peace.

2d, The spirit of the nation had become completely military. One year of peace cannot be supposed
to have done away the effects of twelve years of victory.

3d, The general laxity of morals, and the habits of dissipation and idleness, which have followed
from the revolution, and have been taught by the military, and especially by the disbanded
soldiers, were favourable to him.

4th, He came at the very time when his prisoners had returned from all quarters of the globe;
he came again to unite them under the revered eagle, emblem of rapine and plunder, which they
everywhere looked up to; in short, if it had been suggested to any one, possessing a thorough
knowledge of the situation of France, to say at what time Napoleon was most likely to succeed,
he must have pitched on the moment selected by him. There are indeed many circumstances which
induce me to suppose, that the plan for his restoration had been partly formed before he left
Fontainbleau; for it is well known, that he long hesitated--that he often thought of making
use of his remaining force, (a force of about thirty thousand men), and fighting his way to
Italy; that his Marshals only prevailed on him, and that he yielded to their advice, when he
might have thought and acted for himself. The conduct of Ney favours the supposition: he selected
for him the spot, of all others, the most favourable for his views, should they be directed
to Italy; he stipulated for his rank, for a guard of veterans; he is described as using a boldness
and insolence of speech to Napoleon, which he would not have dared to use, had there not been
an understanding between them. He covered his treachery by a garb of the same nature, when
in presence of his lawful Sovereign: open in his abuse of the usurper, while laying plans to
join him.

There is a very peculiar circumstance in Bonaparte's character, which is, that at times, he
makes the most unguarded speeches, forgetful of his own interest. Thus, when the national guard
of Lyons begged permission to accompany him on his march, he said to them, "You have suffered
the brother of your King to leave you unattended--go--you are unworthy to follow me." Thus,
when at Frejus, he said to the Mayor,--"I am sorry that Frejus is in Provence; I hate Provence,
but I have always wished your town well; and, ere long, I will be among you again." This speech,
which I had from the Prefect of Aix, who was intimately attached to Napoleon and his interests,
I know to be authentic. In it, even the place of his landing seemed to be determined. One thing
is certain, that the plan, if not commenced before his abdication, was, at all events, begun
immediately after; for a long time must have been necessary to arrange matters in such a manner
that he should not find the slightest opposition in his march to Paris.

I have thus attempted to give my readers some account of the state of France under Napoleon.
From this account, hastily written, they will draw their own conclusions. Mine, attached as
I am to one party; knowing little of politics, only interested as a Briton in the fate of my
country, are these:--That France decidedly wishes to live by war and plunder--that France deserves
no such government as that of the virtuous Louis--that, till the soldiery are disbanded, and
their leaders punished, France can never be governed by the Bourbons:--that the majority in
the nation do not wish for Napoleon in particular, but for a revolutionary government, and
that we have no right of interference with their choice: but that the propriety of our immediately
engaging in war could not be doubted, for our very existence as a nation depended on such conduct--that
we had the same right to attack Bonaparte, as we had to attack a common robber, more particularly,
if this robber had repeatedly planned and devised the destruction of our property.

They will draw the happiest conclusions in favour of our own blessed country, from a comparison
with France--looking on that unhappy nation, they will exclaim with me, in the beautiful words
of La Harpe: [45]"J'excuse et n'envie point ceux qui peuvent vivre comme s'ils n'avoient ni
souffert ni vu souffrir; mais qu'ils me pardonnent de ne pouvoir les imiter. Ces jours d'une
degradation entière et innouie de la nature humaine sont sous mes yeux, pesent sur mon ame
et retombent sans cesse sous ma plume, destinée à les retraçer jusqu'à mon dernier moment."[46]

CHAPTER V.

MODERN FRENCH CHARACTER AND MANNERS.

An Englishman never dreams of entering into conversation without some previous knowledge upon
the point which is the subject of discussion. You will pass but few days in France before you
will be convinced, that to a Frenchman this is not at all necessary. The moment he enters the
room, or caffé, where a circle may happen to be conversing, he immediately takes part in the
discussion--of whatever nature, or upon whatever subject that may be, is not of the most distant
consequence to him. He strikes in with the utmost self-assurance and adroitness, maintains
a prominent part in the conversation with the most perfect plausibility; and although, from
his want of accurate information, he will rarely instruct, he seldom fails to amuse by the
exuberance of his fancy, and the rapidity of his elocution. But take any one of his sentences
to pieces, analyze it, strip it of its gaudy clothing and fanciful decorations, and you will
be astonished what skeletons of bare, shallow, and spiritless ideas will frequently present
themselves.

In England, it often happens, that a man who is perfectly master of the subject in discussion,
from the effect of shyness or embarrassment, will convey his information with such an appearance
of awkwardness and hesitation, as to create a temporary suspicion of dulness, or of incapacity.
But upon further examination, the true and sterling value of his remarks is easily discernible.
The same can very seldom be said of a Frenchman. His conversation, which delights at the moment,
generally fades upon recollection. The information of the first is like a beautiful gem, whose
real value is concealed by the encrustation with which it is covered; the other is a dazzling
but sorry paste in a brilliant setting. [47]"Un Français," says M. de Stael, with great truth,
"scait encore parler, lors meme il n'a point d'idees;" and the reason why a Frenchman can do
so is, because ideas, which are the essential requisites in conversation to any other man,
are not so to him. He is in possession of many substitutes, composed of a few of those set
phrases and accommodating sentences which fit into any subject; and these, mixed up with appropriate
nods, significant gestures, and above all, with the characteristic shrugging of the shoulders,
are ever ready at hand when the tide of his ideas may happen to run shallow.

The perpetual cheerfulness of the French, under almost every situation, is well known, and
has been repeatedly remarked. One great secret by which they contrive to preserve this invariable
levity of mind, is probably this extraordinary talent of theirs for a particular kind of conversation.
An Englishman, engaged in the business and duties of life, even at his hours of relaxation,
is occupied in thinking upon them. In the midst of company he is often an insulated being;
his mind, refusing intercourse with those around him, retires within itself. In this manner
he inevitably becomes, even in his common hours, grave and serious, and if under misfortunes,
perhaps melancholy and morose. A Frenchman is in every respect a different being: He cannot
be grave or unhappy, because he never allows himself time to become so. His mind is perpetually
busied with the affairs of the moment. If he is in company, he speaks, without introduction,
to every gentleman in the room. Any thing, the most trivial, serves him for a hook on which
to hang his story; and this generally lasts as long as he has breath to carry him on. He recounts
to you, the first hour you meet with him, his whole individual history; diverges into anecdotes
about his relations, pulls out his watch, and under the cover shews you the hair of his mistress,
apostrophizes the curl--opens his pocket-book, insists upon your reading his letters to her,
sings you the song which he composed when he was au desespoir at their parting, asks your opinion
of it, then whirls off to a discussion on the nature of love; leaves that the next moment to
philosophize upon friendship, compliments you, en passant, and claims you for his friend; hopes
that the connection will be perpetual, and concludes by asking you to do him the honour of
telling him your name. In this manner he is perpetually occupied; he has a part to act which
renders serious thought unnecessary, and silence impossible. If he has been unfortunate, he
recounts his distresses, and in doing so, forgets them. His mind never reposes for a moment
upon itself; his secret is to keep it in perpetual motion, and, like a shuttlecock, to whip
it back and forward with such rapidity, that although its feathers may have been ruffled, and
its gilding effaced by many hard blows, yet neither you nor he have time to discover it.

Nothing can present a stronger contrast between the French and English character, and nothing
evinces more clearly the superiority of the French in conversation, and the art of amusement,
than the scenes which take place in the interior of a French diligence. They who go to France
and travel in their own carriages are not aware of what they lose.--The interior of a French
diligence, if you are tolerably fortunate in your company, is a perfect epitome of the French
nation.--When you enter a public coach in England, it is certainly very seldom that, in the
course of the few hours you may remain in it, you meet with an entertaining companion. Chance,
indeed, may now and then throw a pleasant man in your way; but these are but thinly sown amongst
those sour and silent gentlemen, who are your general associates, and who, now and then eyeing
each other askance, look as if they could curse themselves for being thrown into such involuntary
contiguity.

The scene in a French diligence is the most different from all this that can be conceived.
Every thing there is life, and motion, and joy.--The coach generally holds from ten to twelve
persons, and even then is sufficiently roomy.--The moment you enter you find yourself on terms
of the most perfect familiarity with the whole set of your travelling companions. In an instant
every tongue is at work, and every individual bent upon making themselves happy for the moment,
and contributing to the happiness of their fellow travellers. Talking, joking, laughing, singing,
reciting,--every enjoyment which is light and pleasurable is instantly adopted.--A gentleman
takes a box from his pocket, opens it, and with a look of the most finished politeness, presents
it, full of sweetmeats, to the different ladies in succession. One of these, in gratitude for
this attention, proposes that which she well knows will be agreeable to the whole party, some
species of round game like our cross-purposes, involving forfeits. The proposal is carried
by acclamation,--the game is instantly begun, and every individual is included: Woe be now
to the aristocracy of the interior! Old and young, honest and dishonest, respectable and disrespectable,
all are involved in undistinguished confusion--but all are content to be so, and happy in the
exchange. The game in the meantime proceeds, and the different forfeits become more numerous.
The generality of these ensure, indeed, from their nature, a punctuality of performance. To
kiss the handsomest woman in the party, to pay her a compliment in some extempore effusion,
or to whisper a confidence (faire une confidence) in her ear--all these are hardly enjoined
before they are happily accomplished. But others, which it would be difficult to particularize,
are more amusing in their consequences, and less easy, in their execution.

