CHARACTERS

FROM THE

HISTORIES & MEMOIRS

OF THE

SEVENTEENTH CENTURY

With an Essay on THE CHARACTER

and Historical Notes

By DAVID NICHOL SMITH

OXFORD

1918

CONTENTS

ESSAY ON THE CHARACTER

   I. The Beginnings
  II. The Literary Models
 III. Clarendon
  IV. Other Character Writers

CHARACTERS

  1. JAMES I. By Arthur Wilson
  2.   "      By Sir Anthony Weldon
  3. THE DUKE OF BUCKINGHAM (George Villiers, first Duke). By Clarendon
  4. SIR THOMAS COVENTRY. By Clarendon
  5. SIR RICHARD WESTON. By Clarendon
  6. THE EARL OF ARUNDEL (Thomas Howard, fourteenth Earl). By Clarendon
  7. THE EARL OF PEMBROKE (William Herbert, third Earl). By Clarendon
  8. SIR FRANCIS BACON. By Ben Jonson
  9.  "     "      "    By Arthur Wilson
 10.  "     "      "    By Thomas Fuller
 11.  "     "      "    By William Rawley
 12. BEN JONSON. By Clarendon
 13.  "     "    By James Howell
 14. HENRY HASTINGS. By Shaftesbury
 15. CHARLES I. By Clarendon
 16.    "       By Sir Philip Warwick
 17. THE EARL OF STRAFFORD (Thomas Wentworth, first Earl). By Clarendon
 18. THE EARL OF STRAFFORD (Thomas Wentworth, first Earl). By Sir Philip
       Warwick
 19. THE EARL OF NORTHAMPTON (Spencer Compton, second Earl). By Clarendon
 20. THE EARL OF CARNARVON (Robert Dormer, first Earl). By Clarendon
 21. LORD FALKLAND (Lucius Cary, second Viscount). By Clarendon
 22. LORD FALKLAND (Lucius Cary, second Viscount). By Clarendon
 23. SIDNEY GODOLPHIN. By Clarendon
 24. WILLIAM LAUD. By Clarendon
 25.    "      "   By Thomas Fuller
 26.    "      "   By Sir Philip Warwick
 27. WILLIAM JUXON. By Sir Philip Warwick
 28. THE MARQUIS OF HERTFORD (William Seymour, first Marquis). By Clarendon
 29. THE MARQUIS OF NEWCASTLE (William Cavendish, first Marquis, and Duke).
     By Clarendon
 30. THE LORD DIGBY (George Digby, second Earl of Bristol). By Clarendon
 31. THE LORD CAPEL (Arthur Capel, first Baron). By Clarendon
 32. ROYALIST GENERALS: PATRICK RETHVEN, EARL OF BRENTFORD; PRINCE RUPERT;
     GEORGE, LORD GORING; HENRY WILMOT, EARL OF ROCHESTER. By Clarendon
 33. JOHN HAMPDEN. By Clarendon
 34. JOHN PYM. By Clarendon
 35. OLIVER CROMWELL. By Clarendon
 36. OLIVER CROMWELL. By Clarendon
 37.   "        "     By Sir Philip Warwick
 38.   "        "     By John Maidston
 39.   "        "     By Richard Baxter
 40. SIR THOMAS FAIRFAX. By Richard Baxter
 41. SIR HENRY VANE, the younger. By Clarendon
 42.  "    "     "    "    "      By Clarendon
 43. COLONEL JOHN HUTCHINSON. By Lucy Hutchinson
 44. THE EARL OF ESSEX (Robert Devereux, third Earl). By Clarendon
 45. THE EARL OF SALISBURY (William Cecil, second Earl). By Clarendon
 46. THE EARL OF WARWICK (Robert Rich, second Earl). By Clarendon
 47. THE EARL OF MANCHESTER (Edward Montagu, second Earl). By Clarendon
 48. THE LORD SAY (William Fiennes, first Viscount Say and Sele). By
       Clarendon
 49. JOHN SELDEN. By Clarendon
 50. JOHN EARLE. By Clarendon
 51. JOHN HALES. By Clarendon
 52. WILLIAM CHILLINGWORTH. By Clarendon
 53. EDMUND WALLER. By Clarendon
 54. THOMAS HOBBES. By Clarendon
 55.    "      "    Notes by John Aubrey
 56. THOMAS FULLER. Anonymous
 57. JOHN MILTON. Notes by John Aubrey
 58.   "     "    Note by Edward Phillips
 59.   "     "    Notes by Jonathan Richardson
 60. ABRAHAM COWLEY. By himself
 61.    "       "    By Thomas Sprat
 62. CHARLES II. By Halifax
 63. CHARLES II. By Burnet
 64. CHARLES II. By Burnet
 65. THE EARL OF CLARENDON (Edward Hyde, first Earl), By Burnet
 66. THE EARL OF LAUDERDALE (John Maitland, second Earl, created
       Duke 1672). By Clarendon.
 67. By Burnet
 68. THE EARL OF SHAFTESBURY (Anthony Ashley Cooper, first Earl).
       By Burnet
 69. THE EARL OF SHAFTESBURY (Anthony Ashley Cooper, first Earl).
       By Dryden
 70. THE DUKE OF BUCKINGHAM (George Villiers, second Duke). By Burnet
 71. THE DUKE OF BUCKINGHAM (George Villiers, second Duke). By Dryden
 72. THE MARQUIS OF HALIFAX (George Savile, first Marquis). By Burnet
 73. SIR EDMUND SAUNDERS. By Roger North
 74. TWO GROUPS OF DIVINES: (1. Benjamin Whitchcot, Ralph Cudworth, John
     Wilkins, Henry More, John Worthington; 2. John Tillotson, Edward
     Stillingfleet, Simon Patrick, William Lloyd, Thomas Tenison). By
     Burnet
 75. JAMES II. By Burnet
 76. JAMES II. By Burnet

THE CHARACTER

The seventeenth century is rich in short studies or characters of its great men. Its rulers
and statesmen, its soldiers and politicians, its lawyers and divines, all who played a prominent
part in the public life, have with few notable exceptions been described for us by their contemporaries.
There are earlier characters in English literature; but as a definite and established form
of literary composition the character dates from the seventeenth century. Nor at any later
period is there the same wealth of material for such a collection as is given in this volume.
The eighteenth century devoted itself rather to biography. When the facts of a man's life,
his works, and his opinions claimed detailed treatment, the fashion of the short character
had passed.

Yet the seventeenth century did not know its richness. None of its best characters were then
printed. The writers themselves could not have suspected how many others were similarly engaged,
so far were they from belonging to a school. The characters in Clarendon's History of the Rebellion
were too intimate and searching to be published at once, and they remained in manuscript till
about thirty years after his death. In the interval Burnet was drawing the characters in his
History of His Own Time. He, like Clarendon, was not aware of being indebted to any English
model. Throughout the period which they cover there are the characters by Fuller, Sir Philip
Warwick, Baxter, Halifax, Shaftesbury, and many others, the Latin characters by Milton, and
the verse characters by Dryden. There is no sign that any of these writers copied another or
tried to emulate him. Together, but with no sense of their community, they made the seventeenth
century the great age of the character in England.

I. The Beginnings.

The art of literary portraiture in the seventeenth century developed with the effort to improve
the writing of history. Its first and at all times its chief purpose in England was to show
to later ages what kind of men had directed the affairs and shaped the fortunes of the nation.
In France it was to be practised as a mere pastime; to sketch well-known figures in society,
or to sketch oneself, was for some years the fashionable occupation of the salons. In England
the character never wholly lost the qualities of its origin. It might be used on occasion as
a record of affection, or as a weapon of political satire; but our chief character writers
are our historians. At the beginning of the seventeenth century England was recognized to be
deficient in historical writings. Poetry looked back to Chaucer as its father, was proud of
its long tradition, and had proved its right to sing the glories of Elizabeth's reign. The
drama, in the full vigour of its youth, challenged comparison with the drama of Greece and
Rome. Prose was conscious of its power in exposition and controversy. But in every review of
our literature's great achievement and greater promise there was one cause of serious misgivings.
England could not yet rank with other countries in its histories. Many large volumes had been
printed, some of them containing matter that is invaluable to the modern student, but there
was no single work that was thought to be worthy of England's greatness. The prevailing type
was still the chronicle. Even Camden, 'the glory and light of the kingdom', as Ben Jonson called
him, was an antiquary, a collector, and an annalist. History had yet to be practised as one
of the great literary arts.

Bacon pointed out the 'unworthiness' and 'deficiences' of English history in his Advancement
of Learning.[1] 'Some few very worthy, but the greater part beneath mediocrity' was his verdict
on modern histories in general. He was not the first to express these views. Sir Henry Savile
had been more emphatic in his dedication to Queen Elizabeth of his collection of early chronicles,
Rerum Anglicarum Scriptores post Bedam, published in 1596.[2] And after Bacon, somewhere about
1618, these views were again expressed by Edmund Bolton in his Hypercritica, or a Rule of Judgement
for writing or reading our Histories.[3] 'The vast vulgar Tomes', he said, 'procured for the
most part by the husbandry of Printers, and not by appointment of the Prince or Authority of
the Common-weal, in their tumultuary and centonical Writings do seem to resemble some huge
disproportionable Temple, whose Architect was not his Arts Master'. He repeated what he calls
the common wish 'that the majesty of handling our history might once equal the majesty of the
argument'. England had had all other honours, but only wanted a history.

But the most valuable statement on the conditions of English history at this time and the obstacles
that hindered its progress was made by Sir John Hayward at the beginning of his Lives of the
III Normans, Kings of England, published in 1613. Leaving aside the methods of the chroniclers,
he had taken the classical historians as his model in his First Part of the Life and raigne
of King Henrie the IIII. The interest of this work to the modern reader lies in its structure,
its attempt at artistic unity, its recognition that English history must be written on a different
plan, rather than in its historical matter. But it was no sooner published than Hayward was
committed to the Tower because the account of the deposition of Richard II was held to be treasonable,
the offence being aggravated by the dedication, in perfectly innocent terms, to the Earl of
Essex. His work was thus checked till he met with encouragement from Henry, Prince of Wales,
a patron of literature, of whom, though a mere youth, such men as Jonson, Chapman, and Raleigh,
spoke with an enthusiasm that cannot be mistaken for flattery. Prince Henry saw the need of
a worthy history of England. He therefore sent for Hayward to discuss the reasons with him:

    Prince Henry ... sent for mee, a few monethes before his
    death. And at my second comming to his presence, among some
    other speeches, hee complained much of our Histories of
    England; and that the English Nation, which is inferiour to
    none in Honourable actions, should be surpassed by all, in
    leauing the memorie of them to posteritie....

    I answered, that I conceiued these causes hereof; One,
    that men of sufficiencie were otherwise employed; either
    in publicke affaires, or in wrestling with the world, for
    maintenance or encrease of their private estates. Another is,
    for that men might safely write of others in maner of a tale,
    but in maner of a History, safely they could not: because,
    albeit they should write of men long since dead, and whose
    posteritie is cleane worne out; yet some aliue, finding
    themselues foule in those vices, which they see obserued,
    reproued, condemned in others; their guiltinesse maketh them
    apt to conceiue, that whatsoeuer the words are, the finger
    pointeth onely at them. The last is, for that the Argument of
    our English historie hath been so foiled heretofore by some
    unworthie writers, that men of qualitie may esteeme themselues
    discredited by dealing in it....

    Then he questioned, whether I had wrote any part of our
    English Historie, other then that which had been published;
    which at that time he had in his hands. I answered, that I
    had wrote of certaine of our English Kings, by way of a
    briefe description of their liues: but for historie, I did
    principally bend, and binde my selfe to the times wherein
    I should liue; in which my owne obseruations might somewhat
    direct me: but as well in the one as in the other I had at
    that time perfected nothing.

The result of the interview was that Hayward proceeded to 'perfect somewhat of both sorts'.
The brief description of the lives of the three Norman kings was in due course ordered to be
published, and would have been dedicated to its real patron but for his untimely death; in
dedicating it instead to Prince Charles, Hayward fortunately took the opportunity to relate
his conversation with Prince Henry. How far he carried the other work is not certain; it survives
in the fragment called The Beginning of the Raigne of Queene Elizabeth,[4] published after
his death with The Life and Raigne of King Edward the Sixt. He might have brought it down to
the reign of James. Had he been at liberty to follow his own wishes, he would have been the
first Englishman to write a 'History of his own time'. But when an author incurred imprisonment
for writing about the deposition of a sovereign, and when modern applications were read into
accounts of what had happened long ago, the complexity of his own time was a dangerous if not
a forbidden subject.

There is a passage to the same effect in the preface to The Historie of the World by Sir Walter
Raleigh, who, unlike Hayward, willingly chose to be silent on what he knew best:

    I know that it will bee said by many, That I might have beene
    more pleasing to the Reader, if I had written the Story of
    mine owne times; having been permitted to draw water as neare
    the Well-head as another. To this I answer, that who-so-ever
    in writing a moderne Historie, shall follow truth too neare
    the heeles, it may happily strike out his teeth. There is no
    Mistresse or Guide, that hath led her followers and servants
    into greater miseries.... It is enough for me (being in that
    state I am) to write of the eldest times: wherein also why may
    it not be said, that in speaking of the past, I point at the
    present, and taxe the vices of those that are yet lyving, in
    their persons that are long since dead; and have it laid to my
    charge? But this I cannot helpe, though innocent.

He wrote of remote ages, and contributed nothing to historical knowledge. But he enriched English
literature with a 'just history', as distinct from annals and chronicles.[5] 'I am not altogether
ignorant', he said, 'in the Lawes of Historie, and of the Kindes.' When we read his lives and
commendations of the great men of antiquity as he pictured them, we cannot but regret that
the same talents, the same overmastering interest in the eternal human problems, had not been
employed in depicting men whom he had actually known. The other Elizabethan work that ranks
with Raleigh's in its conception of the historian's office and in its literary excellence,
deals with another country. It is the History of the Turks by Richard Knolles.

The character was definitely introduced into English literature when the historians took as
their subjects contemporary or recent events at home, and, abandoning the methods of the chronicle,
fashioned their work on classical models. Its introduction had been further prepared to some
extent by the growing interest in lives, which, unlike chronicles that recorded events, recognized
the part played by men in the control of events. In his Advancement of Learning Bacon regretted
that Englishmen gave so little thought to describing the deeds and characters of their great
countrymen. 'I do find strange', he said, 'that these times have so little esteemed the virtues
of the times, as that the writing of lives should be no more frequent.' He and Hayward both
wrote lives with the consciousness that their methods were new in English, though largely borrowed
from the classics.[6] Hayward tried to produce a picture of the period he dealt with, and his
means for procuring harmoniousness of design was to centre attention on the person of the sovereign.
It is a conception of history not as a register of facts but as a representation of the national
drama. His Henry IV gives the impression, especially by its speeches, that he looked upon history
as resolving itself ultimately into a study of men; and it thus explains how he wished to be
free to describe the times wherein he lived. He is on the whole earlier than Bacon, who wrote
his Historie of the Reigne of King Henry the Seventh late in life, during the leisure that
was forced on him by his removal from all public offices. Written to display the controlling
policy in days that were 'rough, and full of mutations, and rare accidents', it is a study
of the statecraft and character of a king who had few personal gifts and small capacity for
a brilliant part, yet won by his ready wisdom the best of all praises that 'what he minded
he compassed'. How he compassed it, is what interested Bacon. 'I have not flattered him,' he
says, 'but took him to the life as well as I could, sitting so far off, and having no better
light.' Would that Bacon had felt at liberty to choose those who sat near at hand. Who better
than the writer of the Essays could have painted a series of miniatures of the courts of Elizabeth
and James?

When at last the political upheaval of this century compelled men to leave, whether in histories,
or memoirs, or biographies, a record of what they had themselves experienced, the character
attained to its full importance and excellence. 'That posterity may not be deceaved by the
prosperous wickednesse of these tymes, into an opinyon, that lesse then a generall combination
and universall apostacy in the whole Nacion from their religion and allegiaunce could in so
shorte a tyme have produced such a totall and prodigious alteration and confusion over the
whole kingdome, and so the memory of those few who out of duty and conscience have opposed
and resisted that Torrent which hath overwhelmed them, may loose the recompence dew to ther
virtue, and havinge undergone the injuryes and reproches of this, may not finde a vindication
in a better Age'--in these words Clarendon began his History of the Rebellion. But he could
not vindicate the memory of his political friends without describing the men who had overcome
them. The history of these confused and difficult years would not be properly understood if
the characters of all the chief actors in the tragic drama were not known. For to Clarendon
history was the record of the struggle of personalities. When we are in the midst of a crisis,
or view it from too near a distance, it is natural for us to think of it as a fight between
the opposing leaders, and the historians of their own time are always liable to attribute to
the personal force of a statesman what is due to general causes of which he is only the instrument.
Of these general causes Clarendon took little account. 'Motives which influenced masses of
men', it has been said, 'escape his appreciation, and the History of the Rebellion is accordingly
an account of the Puritan Revolution which is unintelligible because the part played by Puritanism
is misunderstood or omitted altogether'.[7] But the History of the Rebellion is a Stuart portrait
gallery, and the greatest portrait gallery in the English language.

[Footnote 1: Book II, ed. Aldis Wright, pp. 92-5.]

[Footnote 2: 'Historæ nostræ particulam quidam non male: sed qui totum corpus ea fide, eaque
dignitate scriptis complexus sit, quam suscepti operis magnitudo postularet, hactenus plane
neminem extitisse constat.... Nostri ex fæce plebis historici, dum maiestatem tanti operis
ornare studuerunt, putidissimis ineptiis contaminarunt. Ita factum est nescio qua huiusce insulæ
infoelicitate, ut maiores tui, (serenissima Regina) viri maximi, qui magnam huius orbis nostri
partem imperio complexi, omnes sui temporis reges rerum gestarum gloria facile superarunt,
magnorum ingeniorum quasi lumine destituti, iaceant ignoti, & delitescant.']

[Footnote 3: Critical Essays of the Seventeenth Century, ed. Spingarn, vol. i, pp. 82-115.]

[Footnote 4: See also Camden Society Publications, No. 7, 1840.]

[Footnote 5: Roger Ascham in his Scholemaster divides History into 'Diaria', 'Annales', 'Commentaries',
and 'Iustam Historiam'.]

[Footnote 6: Bacon told Queen Elizabeth that there was no treason in Hayward's Henry IV, but
'very much felony', because Hayward 'had stolen many of his sentences and conceits out of Cornelius
Tacitus' (Apophthegms, 58). Hayward and Bacon had a precursor in the author of The History
of King Richard the Thirde, generally attributed to Sir Thomas More, and printed in the collection
of his works published in 1557. It was known to the chroniclers, but it did not affect the
writing of history. Nor did George Cavendish's Life and Death of Thomas Wolsey, which they
likewise used for its facts.]

[Footnote 7: C.H. Firth, 'Burnet as a Historian', in Clarke and Foxcroft's Life of Gilbert
Burnet, 1907, pp. xliv, xlv.]

II. The Literary Models.

The authentic models for historical composition were in Greek and Latin. Much as our literature
in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries owed to the classics, the debt was nowhere more
obvious, and more fully acknowledged, than in our histories. The number of translations is
in itself remarkable. Many of them, and notably the greatest of all, North's Plutarch, belong
to the early part of Elizabeth's reign, but they became more frequent at the very time when
the inferiority of our native works was engaging attention.[1] By the middle of the seventeenth
century the great classical historians could all be read in English. It was not through translation,
however, that their influence was chiefly exercised.

The classical historians who were best known were Thucydides, Polybius, and Plutarch among
the Greeks, and Sallust, Livy, Tacitus, and Suetonius among the Latins; and the former group
were not so well known as the latter. It was recognized that in Thucydides, to use Hobbes's
words, 'the faculty of writing history is at the highest.'[2] But Thucydides was a difficult
author, and neither he nor Polybius exerted the same direct influence as the Latin historians
who had imitated them, or learned from them. Most of what can be traced ultimately to the Greeks
came to England in the seventeenth century through Latin channels. Every educated man had been
trained in Latin, and was as familiar with it for literary purposes as with his native tongue.
Further, the main types of history--the history of a long period of years, the history of recent
events, and the biographical history--were all so admirably represented in Latin that it was
not necessary to go to Greek for a model. In one respect Latin could claim pre-eminence. It
might possess no single passage greater than the character study of Pericles or of the Athenians
by Thucydides, but it developed the character study into a recognized and clearly defined element
in historical narrative. Livy provided a pattern of narrative on a grand scale. For 'exquisite
eloquence' he was held not to have his equal.[3] But of all the Latin historians, Tacitus had
the greatest influence. 'There is no learning so proper for the direction of the life of man
as Historie; there is no historie so well worth the reading as Tacitus. Hee hath written the
most matter with best conceit in fewest words of any Historiographer ancient or moderne.'[4]
This had been said at the beginning of the first English translation of Tacitus, and it was
the view generally held when he came to be better known. He appealed to Englishmen of the seventeenth
century like no other historian. They felt the human interest of a narrative based on what
the writer had experienced for himself; and they found that its political wisdom could be applied,
or even applied itself spontaneously, to their own circumstances. They were widely read in
the classics. They knew how Plutarch depicted character in his Lives, and Cicero in his Speeches.
They knew all the Latin historians. But when they wrote their own characters their chief master
was Tacitus.

       *       *       *       *       *

Continental historians provided the incentive of rivalry. They too were the pupils of the Ancients,
and taught nothing that might not be learned equally well or better from their masters, but
they invited the question why England should be behind Italy, France, or the Low Countries
in worthy records of its achievements. In their own century, Thuanus, Davila, Bentivoglio,
Strada, and Grotius set the standard for modern historical composition. Jacques Auguste de
Thou, or Thuanus, wrote in Latin a history of his own time in 138 books. He intended to complete
it in 143 books with the assassination of Henri IV in 1610, but his labours were interrupted
by his death in 1617. The collected edition of his monumental work was issued in 1620 under
the title Iacobi Augusti Thuani Historiarum sui temporis ab anno 1543 usque ad annum 1607 Libri
CXXXVIII. Enrico Caterino Davila dealt with the affairs of France from Francis II to Henri
IV in his Historia delle guerre civili di Francia, published in 1630. Cardinal Guido Bentivoglio
described the troubles in the Low Countries in his Della Guerra di Fiandra, published from
1632 to 1639. Famianus Strada wrote on the same subject in Latin; the first part of his De
Bella Belgico, which was meant to cover the period from 1555 to 1590 but was not completed,
appeared in 1632, and the second in 1647. Hugo Grotius, the great Dutch scholar, had long been
engaged on his Annales et Historiæ de Rebus Belgicis when he died in 1640; it was brought out
by his sons in 1657, and contained five books of Annals from 1566 to 1588, and eighteen books
of Histories to 1609. These five historians were well known in England, and were studied for
their method as well as their matter. Burnet took Thuanus as his model. 'I have made him ',
he says, 'my pattern in writing.'[5] The others are discussed by Clarendon in a long passage
of his essay 'On an Active and on a Contemplative Life'.[6] He there develops the view, not
without reference to his own history, that 'there was never yet a good History written but
by men conversant in business, and of the best and most liberal education'; and he illustrates
it by comparing the histories of his four contemporaries:

