Logic.--What is the earliest printed book on logic? meaning the first which gives the common
theory of the syllogism. Does it contain the celebrated words Barbara, Celarent, &c. The difficulty
will probably arise from this, that each book has some undated editions which are probably
earlier than the dated ones. Of books with dates there is the exposition of Petrus Hispanus
by Joh. Versor, in 1473, and the Summulæ of Paulus Venetus, in 1474; the first I find in Hain
(who had not seen it), the second I have seen. Can any one of your readers go farther back?

M.

Darvon Gatherall?--Can any reader adduce further information respecting an image, called Darvon
Gatherall, brought from Wales at the Reformation, than what is mentioned in one of the treatises
published by the Camden Society?

W. Bell.

Damasked Linen.--I should feel obliged for any information on the earliest specimen of tablecloths
being "damasked," and the history of that manufacture. I have lately had shown me as "family
curiosities" a beautiful "damask service" of Flemish or Dutch work. The centre contained a
representation of St. George and the Dragon. The hero is attired in the costume of the latter
part of the seventeenth century (?), with it cocked hat and plume, open sleeves and breeches,
heavy shoes and spurs: with this motto in German characters over him,

  [German: Ben Gott ist Rath und That,]
  "With God is counsel and deed."

At each corner of the cloth and napkins is a representation of a female figure kneeling on
a rock, with clasped hands, with a lamb by her side (Query, St. Agnes?) On the border, at the
top and bottom, St. George is figured in armour stabbing with a spear an alligator; and then
with a sword, in the act of killing a bear.

On the side borders, he is receiving the attack of a lion on his arm, covered with a mantle;
and then, with a raised sword, cutting at the proboscis of an elephant. I have seen, also,
an older specimen, I think, of the same manufacture; the subject being the "Bear and Ragged
Staff," on alternate rows, with figures of trumpeters. I know not if this subject is of sufficient
interest for your "Notes and Queries," but I trust you will make what use of it you please.

R.G.P.M.

Flourish.--We are told that a writer flourished at such and such a time. Is any definite notion
attached to this word? When it is said of a century there is no difficulty; it means that the
writer was born and died in that century. But when we are told that a writer flourished about
the year 1328 (such limitation of florescence is not uncommon), what is then meant? What are
we to understand he did in or about 1328?

M.

Drax Abbey and Free School.--Can you, or any of your intelligent contributors, direct me where
I can find any records of Drax Abbey, near Selby, Yorkshire, or of the Free School in Drax,
endowed by Robert Reed, whom tradition states to heave been a foundling amongst the reeds on
the banks of the Ouse, about half a mile distant. Such information will place me under great
obligation.

T. Dyson.

Gainsboro.

Ancient Catalogue of Books.--A few days since I made the acquisition of a curious old catalogue
{200} of books, interleaved, and containing about 200 pages, with the following title:

    "Catalogus Variorum, in quavis Facultate et materia Librorum
    incompactum Officinæ Joannis Maire, quorum Auctio publicè
    habebitur in ædibus Joannis Maire, hora octavâ matutinâ et
    secundâ postmeridiana ad diem ----, 1661. Lugduni Batavorum, ex
    Typographia Nicolai Herculis, 1661."

On the back is the following notice to "buyers:"

    "Monitos volumus Emptores, hosce Libros eâ vendi conditione, ut
    cum eorum traditione pretium præsenti pecuniâ persolvatur. Et si
    quis Libros à se emptos intra sex septimanarum spatium, à primà
    Auctionis die numerandum, à Bibliopola non exegerit, eos cum
    emptoris prioris damno aliis vendere integrum erit ac licitum.

    "Monentur etiam et rogantur, ut antè meridiem ad horæ octavæ,
    post meridiem vero ad secundæ punctum præsentes sese sistere
    dignentur."

Can any of your readers give me particulars about this John Maire?

W.J.

Havre.

       *       *       *       *       *

REPLIES.

I believe that lighted is rather an unusual form to express lightened, disencumbered, but that
it was sometimes used is apparent; for in Hutton's Dictionary, 1583, we have "Allevo, to make
light, to light."--"Allevatus, lifted up, lighted." And in the Cambridge Dictionary, 1594,
"Allevatus, lifted up, lighted, raised, eased or recovered." The use of the prefix de in the
common instance of depart for to part, divide, is noticed by Mr. Hickson; and demerits was
used for merits by many of our old writers as well as Shakspeare. I find decompound for compound
in Heylyn's Microcosmos, 1627, p. 249., thus:--"The English language is a decompound of Dutch,
French, and Latin."

These instances may serve to show that it is not at all improbable Shakspeare may have used
delighted for lighted==lightened==freed from incumbrance; and it must be confessed that the
sense and spirit of the passage in Measure for Measure would be much improved by taking this
view of it.

On the other hand, it certainly does appear that the poet uses the termination -ed for -ing,
in the passages cited by Mr. Halliwell, where we have professed for professing, becomed for
becoming, guiled for guiling, brooded for brooding, and deformed for deforming: it was not
unreasonable, therefore, to conclude that he had done so in these other instances, and that
delighted stood for delighting, and not for delightful, as Mr. Halliwell implies. How far the
grammatical usages of the poet's time may have authorised this has not yet been shown; but
it appears also that the converse is the case, and that he has used the termination -ing for
-ed; e.g. longing for longed, all-obeying for all-obeyed, discontenting for discontented, multiplying
for multiplied, unrecalling, for unrecalled. Dr. Crombie (Etymology and Syntax of the English
language, p. 150.) says:

    "The participle in ed I consider to be perfectly analogous to
    the participle in ing, and used like it in either an active or
    passive sense, belonging, therefore, neither to the one voice
    nor the other exclusively."

Supposing for a moment that Shakspeare used delighted for delighting, the sense of the passages
would, I presume, be in Measure for Measure, "the spirit affording delight;" in Othello, "if
virtue want no beauty affording delight;" in Cymbeline, "the gifts delighting more from being
delayed." Here we have a simple, and, in the last two instances, I think, a more satisfactory
meaning than Mr. Hickson's sense of lightened, disencumbered, affords, even could it be more
unquestionably established.

I have, however, met with a passage in Sir Philip Sidney's Arcadia (ed. 1598, p. 294.) which
might lead to a different interpretation of delighted in these passages, and which would not,
perhaps, be less startling than that of Mr. Hickson.

    "All this night (in despite of darknesse) he held his eyes open;
    and in the morning, when the delight began to restore to each
    body his colour, then with curtains bar'd he himselfe from the
    enjoying of it; neither willing to feele the comfort of the day,
    nor the ease of the night."

Here, delight is apparently used for the return of light, and the prefix de is probably only
intensive. Now, presuming that Shakspeare also used delighted for lighted, illuminated the
passage in Measure for Measure would bear this interpretation: "the delighted spirit, i.e.,
the spirit restored to light," freed from "that dark house in which it long was pent." In Othello,
"if virtue lack no delighted beauty," i.e. "want not the light of beauty, your son-in-law shows
far more fair than black." Here the opposition between light and black is much in its favour.
In Cymbeline, I must confess it is not quite so clear: "to make my gifts, by the dark uncertainty
attendant upon delay, more lustrous (delighted), more radiant when given," is not more satisfactory
than Mr. {201} HICKSON'S interpretation of this passage. But is it necessary that delighted
should have the same signification in all the three passages? I think not.

These are only suggestions, of course, but the passage from Sidney is certainly curious, and,
from the correct and careful manner in which the book is printed, does not appear to be a corruption.
I have not seen the earlier editions. I have only further to remark, that none of our old authorities
favour DR. KENNEDY'S suggestion, "that the word represents the Latin participle delectus."

Since the above was written, Mr. HICKSON'S reply to MR. HALLIWELL has reached me, upon which
I have only to observe that he will find to guile was used as a verb. Thus in Gower, Confessio
Amantis, fo. 135. ed. 1532:

  "For often he that will begyle,
  Is gyled with the same gyle,
  And thus the gyler is begyled."

We most probably had the word from the old French Guiller=tromper, and the proverb is to the
purpose:--

  "Qui croit de Guiller Guillot, Guillot le Guile."

Horne Tooke's fanciful etymology cannot be sustained. MR. HICKSON'S explanation of "guiled
shore," is, however, countenanced by the following passage in Tarquin and Lucrece:--

  "To me came Tarquin armed, so beguil'd
  With outward honesty, but yet defil'd
  With inward vice."

MR. HICKSON has, I think, conferred a singular favour in calling attention to these perplexing
passages in our great poet and these remarks, like his own, are merely intended as hints which
may serve to elicit the true interpretation.

S.W. SINGER.

Mickleham, August 20. 1850.

       *       *       *       *       *

FAMILY OF LOVE.

I do not know whether the following Notes on "The Family of Love" will be deserving a place
in the pages of "NOTES AND QUERIES;" as I may possibly have been anticipated in much of what
I send.

The Family of Love attracted notice as early as 1575, but not in such a manner as to call for
direct coercion. An apology was published for them, from which it might be inferred that they
possessed no distinct opinions, but merely bound themselves to a more exalted interpretation
of Christian duties, on the principle of imitating the great love of God manifested in their
creation and retention. This principle, unrestrained by any confession of faith or system of
discipline, naturally attracted to it the loose and irregular spirits that were at that time
so prevalent, and the sect became the receptacle for every variety of opinion and disorder,
exposing itself to more particular notice from its contempt for outward observances, and its
opposition to the civil government. The Evangelium Regni of Henry Nicholas, the acknowledged
founder of the sect, is written in such a manner as to include all religious persuasions, and
permits all parties to hold whatever sentiments they please, if they merely declare themselves
members of the Family of Love.

    "Omnes vos, O amatores veritatis! qui amabilem vitam charitatis
    diligitis vocatmini et invitamini." (cap. 41.) ... "Omnes
    peribunt, qui extra Christum extra communionem charitatis
    manent." (Ibid.)

A confutation of this sect was written in the year 1579; the privy council called upon the
convocation of the year 1580 to notice it. We find the sect still described in the publications
of 1641, and continuing under the same name with its preachers and congregations in 1645.

