TURKEY.

The decline of the Turkish Empire has furnished an eloquent theme for historians, who have
ever made it the 'point and commendation of their tale.' Judging from its decline, they have
predicted its fall. Half a century ago, the historian of the middle ages expected with an assurance
that 'none can deem extravagant,' the approaching subversion of the Ottoman power. Although
deprived of some of its richest possessions and defeated in many a well-fought field, the house
of Othman still stands--amid crumbling monarchies and subjugated countries; the crescent still
glitters on the Bosphorus, and still the 'tottering arch of conquest spans the ample region
from Bagdad to Belgrade.'

Yet, how sadly changed is Turkey from her former self--how varied the fortunes of her classic
fields! The physical features of the country are the same as in the days of Solyman the Magnificent;
the same noble rivers water the fertile valleys, and the same torrents sweep down the mountain
sides; the waves of the Ægean and Mediterranean wash the same shores, fertile in vines and
olive trees; the same heaven smiles over the tombs of the storied brave--but here no longer
is the abode of the rulers and lawgivers of one half the world.

It has been said, and with some degree of truth, that the Turks are encamped, not settled in
Europe. In their political and social institutions they have never comported themselves as
if they anticipated to make it their continuing home. Their oriental legends relate how the
belief arose in the very hour of conquest that the standard of the Cross should at some future
day be carried to the Bosphorus, and that the European portion of the empire would he regained
by Christians. From this superstitious belief they selected the Asiatic shore for the burial
of true Mussulmans; nor was it altogether a fanciful belief, for in the sudden rise of Russia,
Turkey foresaw the harbinger of her fall, and recognized in Muscovite warriors the antagonists
of fate.

A nation to be long-lived must rise higher and higher in the scale of civilization; must approach
nearer and nearer its meridian, but never culminate. The Athenians reached the zenith of their
glory in the age of Pericles, and lost in fifty years what they had acquired in centuries.
The Turks attained their meridian greatness in the reign of Solyman the Magnificent--from which
time dates their decline.

If we make a comparison between Turkey and her formidable neighbor, Russia, we shall find that
the latter adopted, while the former resisted reforms. Turkey was in the fulness of her power
when Russia had not yet a name. The spirit of the Ottomans was remarkably exclusive. They regarded
themselves as a separate and distinct people; they were conquerors, and as such thought themselves
a superior race--men who were to teach and not to learn. In their intercourse with other nations,
they borrowed nothing, and out of themselves looked for nothing. Their feeling of national
glory was not extinguished by national degradation, but cherished through ages of slavery and
shame. But the world is a world of progress. A nation cannot remain stationary; she must advance
or retrograde. Turkey is not what she was, while Russia, with the rest of Christendom, has
advanced; her faults grew with her strength, but did not die with her decay. It will not be
sufficient for her merely to regain her former power; she must overtake Christendom in the
progress made during her decadence. Her spirit of vitality is not yet extinct; it wants guidance
and development to strengthen and elevate it. There is still hope of reforming the Turkish
empire without that baptism of blood which many have urged and are still urging. Indeed, Lord
Palmerston declared in Parliament that Turkey has made a more rapid advance and been improved
more during the last ten years (he made this statement in 1854, and Turkey has been rapidly
progressing since) than any other country in Europe.

Before considering the question of reform, it will be necessary to take a cursory view of Turkish
history and character.

While the monarchs of Constantinople were waging war with Persia, and both empires were tottering;
while the Christian religion gave rise to different sects, hating each other with intense and
fanatical hatred, a silent power was rising among the Turks, which was destined to subvert
empires and found a new religion. Their original seat was among the Altai mountains, where
they were employed by their masters in working iron mines. They rose in rebellion, threw off
their allegiance, and made incursions into Persia and China, proving themselves formidable
enemies. From being a weak and enslaved people they became the allies and conquerors of the
Byzantine emperors. Amid the expiring glories of the Roman world they made Constantinople the
capital of their empire. It was all that the oriental imagination could desire. Rendered by
its fortifications impregnable, and situated on the Bosphorus, whose dark blue waters flow
between shores of unrivalled beauty, where nature and art had reared their grandest monuments,
it surpassed in wealth and grandeur Nineveh and Babylon.

From this stronghold, which had been the cradle of Christianity, and which had witnessed the
dying struggle of the Roman empire, the conquerors, maddened with the victories and crowned
with the wealth which years of perpetual war had heaped upon them, mustered their armies and
sallied forth. They subjugated many countries, but copied none of their virtues; and to-day
their degenerate descendants still retain most of their original traits of character. Their
religious sense is deep, but theirs is a religion which blunts and stupefies the intellectual
faculties, and makes man fit only to perform a score of prostrations each day. It inspires
courage in war, but it also teaches blind resignation to defeat and disgrace: it teaches morality,
but sensuality and ferocity are not inconsistent with its doctrines. Eat, drink, smoke--indulge
all the passions to-day, for immortality begins to-morrow! No Turk is so high that he has not
a master, none so low that he has not a slave; the grand vizier kisses the sultan's foot, the
pasha kisses the vizier's, the bey the pasha's, and so on. Yet their many virtues half redeem
their faults. They are proverbial for their hospitality, and charity, which 'covereth a multitude
of sins,' is an oriental virtue. They have, too, great love of nationality. The beggar who
seeks alms of the Turk with cries and entreaties, will not ask a single para of the Frank (a
name applied to all foreigners).

Turkey in Europe, though smaller in extent than the Asiatic division of the empire, is by far
the wealthier and more important. It extends from Russia to the Adriatic, and from Hungary
to the Euxine sea, the command of which it shares jointly with Russia. The Straits of Constantinople,
the Dardanelles, and the Sea of Marmora are free to all friendly nations. The situation of
the country, its numerous and safe harbors, are all favorable to commerce. There is every variety
of climate, and the soil in every part of the empire is fertile, and, when cultivated, yields
productions in the greatest abundance. The agricultural, like the manufacturing industry, owing
to the indolence of the people, is much neglected. This indolence is, in a great measure, the
result of oppression. Before Russia extended her protection over the provinces, the Turks left
agriculture to their tributaries, whom, when wealthy and prosperous, they plundered.

Let us now consider the causes which led to the decline of the empire. In the reign of Solyman,
poetry, science, and art flourished. New privileges were conferred upon the ministers of religion;
the Janissaries received increased pay; the coffers of the empire were filled to overflowing;
the condition of the rayas was ameliorated; security to life, honor, and property was given
to all, without distinction of creed or race. But even then there were causes at work destined
to effect a decline. The sultan in person was ever at the head of his troops. Thus the vizier,
or prime minister, who remained in the capital, became, by degrees, a more influential personage
than 'the grand seignior' himself. The intrigues of the eunuchs in the imperial harem began
to exert their baneful influences on the administration. The seraglio--in which many hundred
females are immured, the most beautiful that can be found in the contiguous realms of Europe
and Asia, wherever the Turk bears sway--from being the most beautiful appendage, became the
moving spring of the Ottoman Porte. The inmates formed a faction hostile to the ministers of
religion. The administration was transferred to Greeks, Jews, and Armenians, who filled the
treasury of the sultan and enriched themselves by impoverishing the people, who, since they
could no longer enjoy the fruits of their labor, became indolent. The army was more eager for
booty and captives than for glory; slaves were multiplied; the higher classes revelled in wealth
and luxury, while the poorer classes with difficulty obtained a livelihood.

It would be strange, indeed, if in an empire so extensive and with an immense and motley population,
we did not find it difficult to introduce reforms, and instruct the people in the arts of more
civilized nations, and remove old abuses, guarded by the fanaticism of the clergy. Political
reforms can be made only by those in high places of authority; and to be sanctioned by the
prejudiced and infatuated Ottoman they must assume the garb of religion. The sultan himself,
wielding the sceptre over millions of subjects, uniting in his own person all the powers of
the state, claiming to reign by divine commission, and profanely styling himself the shadow
of God--even he dares not venture to vary one iota from the teachings of the Koran and the Sunnah.

Selim III was the first royal reformer. While Europe was shaken to its very centre, and the
continental monarchs trembled on their thrones, he applied himself assiduously to those civil
and military reforms, which his successors promoted, and without which Turkey could not have
maintained her position as a European power. Selim made a new organization of the army, made
innovations in the judicial and administrative branches of the government, changed the system
of taxation, and gave a decidedly new organization to the divan, where reform was most needed.
He also attempted to make innovations in the financial department, but by depreciating the
coin, in order to fill an exhausted treasury, signally failed. He deposed the then reigning
hospodars of the Moldo-Wallachian provinces, and established others more favorable to his work
of reform. Russia and England remonstrated at this measure, and war was declared. The Turkish
army was defeated and driven across the Danube. The Janissaries, ignorantly attributing their
defeat to Selim's reforms in military discipline, rose in rebellion. The well-meant but too
mild sultan fell a victim to their violence, and was succeeded by Mustapha, who had instigated
the insurgents to revolt. His short reign is signalized by the vigorous measures he took to
destroy Selim's reforms. Shortly after his accession to the throne, the defeat of the Turkish
fleet by the Russians spread consternation and terror through the capital. It was at this critical
juncture that an Asiatic pasha, a friend of the deposed sultan, advanced with a powerful army,
and laid siege to Constantinople, which yielded to him after a vigorous resistance of one year.
Mahmoud ascended the throne. From Selim, his cousin, he had learned the lamentable condition
of the empire and the necessity of reform. He had no sooner ascended the throne, than the Janissaries
began to manifest a feverish anxiety for revolt. No time was to be lost; and Mahmoud acted
with that energy which was one of the few redeeming traits of his character. Mustapha, the
murderer of Selim and the destroyer of the work of a lifetime, was put to death; his son and
wives shared his fate. Mahmoud was now firmly established. He was the last scion of the Othman
race, and as such was vested with sacrosancta potestas. He resolved to annihilate the unruly
corps and anathematize their name. He engaged the services of their aga, or commander-in-chief,
to whom he made known his plans. His next step was to issue an order commanding each regiment
to furnish one hundred and fifty men to be drilled after the manner of European soldiers. The
friends of Mahmoud asked: 'Is he mad?' The soldiers exclaimed: 'Bismillah! he wants to make
infidels of us. Does he think we are no better than infidel dogs?' The Janissaries reversed
their kettles (the signal of revolt) in the Byzantine hippodrome, and calling upon their patron
saint, proceeded to attack the royal palace. But Mahmoud was prepared to receive them. All
his other troops, artillery, marines, and infantry, were under arms and at his command. The
ulemas pronounced a curse of eternal dissolution upon the insurgents. Mahmoud unfurled the
sacred standard of the prophet, and called on his people for assistance. A hundred cannon opened
fire upon their barracks, and in an hour twenty-five thousand Janissaries were mowed down by
grapeshot and scimitars. Their bodies broke the lingering fast of the hungry dogs, or were
cast into the Bosphorus, and hurried by its rapid currents into the Sea of Marmora. The annihilation
of the Janissaries took place in 1826.

It is more than probable that Mahmoud could have effected a salutary reform in the military
system without resorting to extreme violence. He was naturally of a cruel disposition, and
was also deficient in prudence and moderation. He gave the Janissaries cause to revolt; he
made frivolous innovations in their long-cherished customs, by commanding them to shave their
beards and forbidding them to wear the turban, a beautiful headdress, an ornament at once national
and religious. These measures excited the disgust of all 'true believers,' while his enemies
called him an infidel, and his warmest supporters and the strongest advocates of reform despaired
of success. Innovations are expedient only when they remove evil, and when men are prepared
to receive them. Command a Turk to shave his beard--by which he swears--the idol of his life.
As well bid him cut off his right arm or pluck out an eye--he would obey one as soon as the
other. The impolicy of changing the customs and dress of a half-civilized, warlike nation,
has been made obvious in many instances--none more impressive than the mutiny of the Anglo-Indian
army at Velore in 1806.

Mahmoud in destroying the Janissaries took for his model Peter the Great. Never were two sovereigns
more unlike each other. Peter, generous and humane, leaving his throne and travelling in disguise
to educate himself, stands in bold contrast with the parsimonious and cruel sultan. Moreover,
Mahmoud's was a more difficult undertaking. The Strelitzes whom the czar annihilated were unsupported,
were famous by no illustrious victory, and had not an enthusiastic religious feeling. The Janissaries,
on the other hand, had strong family interests; they, too, had decided the fate of the empire
at the battle of Varna, where their bravery established the Ottoman power, whose brightest
triumphs were clustered around their names; they had fought many a bloody battle, and had never
turned their backs to the foe; their leader was chosen from their own ranks, and no nobility
controlled their ambition or prevented them from receiving the honor due to enterprise and
valor; they held the sultan in check; the ulemas gave sanction to their laws, and they in turn
sustained the authority of the ulemas with their swords. As long as they experienced no change
in their discipline and customs they were invincible. But they too had participated in the
universal degeneracy. Like the Prætorian bands of Rome, they had become the absolute masters
of the empire. They pulled down and set up sultans at their will; their valor had departed,
but their unconquerable pride remained as part of their heritage. Their ranks were filled with
crowds of Greeks, Jews, and Moslems, without discipline and without order. Many who had purchased
the privilege of being numbered in this formidable body, lived outside of the barracks, and
assembled only on pay day or in times of tumult and rebellion. They despised all laws, civil
and religious, and were a constant source of annoyance to the people, whose lives and property
were at their mercy. Such were the subjects upon whom Mahmoud was to operate. In the destruction
of the Strelitzes and the Janissaries, Peter and Mahmoud may be compared to two physicians:
one practises on a healthy savage, while the other attempts to cut out a malignant cancer reaching
the vitals, from the pampered sensualist. In annihilating these troops, as in his other reforms,
Mahmoud began where he should have ended his labors; he mistook the end for the means.

Had he stopped with this act of violence, his supporters might defend him on the doubtful ground
of expediency; but he did not stop here. For centuries the tyranny of the sultans had been
restrained by the derebeys, or lords of the valleys. They had been confirmed in the possession
of their lands by Mohammed II, from which time they had continued to pay tribute to the sultan,
and furnished him with quotas of troops. The sultan had no control over their lives or property.
The subjects who tilled the productive lands of the valleys were suitably rewarded for their
labor. The happiest and wealthiest peasants of the empire were found among the vassals of the
beys, to whom they showed great devotion. These feudal lords, at a moment's warning, could
summon twenty thousand men before their palace gates. They furnished the greater part of the
sultan's cavalry force in war; and, unlike the pashas, had never raised the standard of rebellion;
they had never wished for revolutions, and had never sanctioned insurrections. The possession
of their property was guaranteed to them by inheritance, and they had no need of money with
which to bribe the Sublime Porte.

Mahmoud was bent on depriving them of their wealth and curtailing their privileges. They were
rich, did not bribe him, and held hereditary possessions. These were unpardonable crimes in
the sight of this exemplary reformer. The beys, who never dealt in treachery, were unsuspicious
of others, and fell an easy prey. The peasants ceased to cultivate the lands from which they
could no longer profit; and many of the wealthiest possessions became desolate. We must not
think it strange, therefore, that the military power was prostrated, when, after having annihilated
the Janissaries, Mahmoud deprived the derebeys of their ancient authority; for the military
power of the empire rested chiefly in these two bodies. These innovations were made in the
midst of a destructive Greek war, and at a time when the Danube and the Balkan were no longer
formidable barriers to the Muscovite descendants of Ivan the Terrible, who brought back memories
of the past, and threatened to avenge deeply treasured wrongs. Even at this critical period,
when his army was annihilated, his fleet defeated, and the legions of Russia within a few days'
march of Constantinople, Mahmoud threatened to feed his horses at the high altar of St. Peter's,
and proclaim the religion of the prophet in the Muscovite capital. A threat that savored more
of the seraglio than of the throne!

His next step was to assail the privileges of the great provincial cities, the inhabitants
of which elected from their own number ayans, or magistrates, distinguished for their wisdom
and virtue. These magistrates had much influence among the people; they had always resisted
exorbitant taxes and unjust decrees; their protection was extended to Mussulmans and Christians
without distinction. Their power of veto was almost as effective as that of the tribuni plebis
of Rome; they could point back to Solyman, the Solon of his time, as the author of their protective
system. But their power originated with the people. To this Mahmoud would not submit. All power
must emanate from him, the all-wise and innovating sultan, who raised the low and humbled the
great, not as they were honest or corrupt, but as they fawned upon him, or refused to yield
implicit obedience to his nod.

In their endeavors to institute a new financial system, the predecessors of Mahmoud reduced
the standard of money gradually, in order not to produce a panic. But he wished to accomplish
in one day the work of years. He issued a decree commanding the people to bring all their coin,
gold and silver, to their respective governors--where they would receive less than half its
value! He threatened the refractory with death. The capital resounded with the dreaded cry
of rebellion; and the exasperated multitude that had surrounded the royal palace was not appeased
until it witnessed the public execution of the mint officers, whose only crime was obedience
to their master. This impolitic measure in the financial department impoverished the people,
and left the treasury still empty. Foreign speculators bought the money--the circulation of
which had become illegal--and resold it to the sultan for sterling value!

Shortly after this he expelled about thirty thousand Christians from the capital, which they
had embellished and enriched by their labor. Their fidelity had never been doubted. For this
despicable act--their expulsion--Mahmoud could adduce no better reason than that 'it was solely
on political grounds.' Strange politics this, for a sovereign, who professed to have the magnanimity
of Christian rulers! On the expulsion of the Christians, Russia commenced hostilities, and
a war followed, in which the sultan paid dearly for his rashness.

In short, Mahmoud could not have given a better lesson to his subjects than by reforming himself.
He was cruel beyond measure--if the grand seignior can ever be so called, who is taught that
he may lop off a score of heads each day 'for divine inspiration.' Still if he had been as
thoroughly skilled as he professed to have been, he should have shown himself a humane as well
as an innovating sovereign. Those who assisted him in his reforms, he rewarded with the bowstring.
His character was blackened by ingratitude, an instinctive vice in oriental rulers. Obstinate
as he was suspicious, deceitful as he was cunning, he could not rule his own passions, much
less could he control the corrupt morals of his people. He was to an extraordinary degree avaricious,
a quality everywhere odious, but especially in a land where generosity measures love--where
in the highest and in the lowest stations liberality is the moving spring. While he mistook
parsimony for economy, he did not scruple to make war on trifling pretexts and waste his amassed
treasures in a hopeless cause.

In every attempted reform he wounded Ottoman pride and prejudice. Unlike his cousin, he did
not humor the faults of the people while making innovations; he neither amused them with imposing
shows, nor flattered them by the pompous spectacle of his appearance in public--in one word,
he wanted the tact of a reformer. Selim, while he increased the navy and established manufactories,
built gorgeous palaces, and by his magnificence dazzled the people, who were blind to his real
designs; they even permitted him to set up printing presses in the large cities, on receiving
assurance that the Koran would not be submitted to the unholy process of squeezing!

Mahmoud thought, or pretended to think, that he could reform the empire by imitating only the
vices of Christianity, and manifesting a contempt for Moslem virtues. While he drank wine--and
in many other breaches of the teachings of the sacred book provoked the faithful--his proclamations
breathed a most orthodox and fanatical spirit. He was a sceptic; neither Mussulman nor Christian,
but surprisingly inconsistent and capricious. His, we fear, were 'hangman's hands,' and 'not
ordained to build a temple unto peace.'

Under Solyman the Magnificent, at once the most warlike monarch and munificent patron of literature
and art, the constitution of the Janissaries was wise and effective. The children of Christians,
taken by the Turks in war or in their predatory incursions, were exposed in the public markets
of Constantinople, whence any person was at liberty to take them into his service, on making
a contract with the government to return them at the demand of the sultan. These children were
instructed in Islamism, and were trained by manly exercise and labor, calculated to strengthen
the body and give elasticity to the spirits. From these hardy orphans the ranks of the Janissaries
were recruited. They came eagerly to the camp; for they had been taught to regard it as the
theatre of their future glory. From earliest infancy they looked forward with joy to the time
when they should be numbered among those brave soldiers, whose arms had maintained for a long
series of years the supremacy of the crescent. There was no rank, no dignity in the Turkish
army to which a Janissary could not aspire--a strong incentive to the display of bravery. Such
was the constitution of the army when it was the most powerful in Europe: then it gained its
victories, not by force of numbers, but by superior military discipline and valor. In the middle
of the nineteenth century the capture of Christian children was abandoned. The land forces
degenerated into a wretchedly organized army of less than three hundred thousand men, drafted
from the lowest classes. Mothers put their children to death that they might be spared the
pangs of seeing them torn away to pass their days in scenes of shame and dissipation.

Not till the army had become a laughing stock to the weakest European power did the sultans
perceive the necessity of military reform. Selim III established a school for artillery and
naval officers, and engaged Europeans, especially Frenchmen, as instructors in military science.
We can readily comprehend the degeneracy of the Turkish army, when we remember that since the
establishment of the school at Sulitzi for engineers, the Turks have learned from foreign teachers
military tactics of which their own ancestors were the inventors, and which had been forgotten,
although full accounts of them lay hidden in musty volumes in their military archives.

Foreign officers were at first regarded with contempt by Turkish soldiers, whose unconquerable
pride has ever proved a great impediment to the regeneration of the empire. Moslem talent was
not equal to the exigencies that arose from the impolitic measures of Mahmoud. We find a parallel
case in Russia. Had Peter trusted to Muscovite genius to form and command the troops which
superseded the Strelitzes, Charles XII would have quartered in the Kremlin.

Kutchuk Husseyin, the relative and favorite of Selim, made valuable additions to the navy in
which his master took such pride. Husseyin, who had the welfare of his country at heart, was
liberal and disinterested. Vested with the office of captain pasha, he sent to Greece for architects
and engineers, with whose assistance he fortified Stamboul, Sinope, and Rhodes; he built arsenals
and extensive docks, which he supplied with the necessary equipments of a powerful fleet. In
a short time, twenty sail of the line, constructed on the newest European models, rode at anchor
within sight of his palace. He also erected barracks for the troops, and greatly improved the
naval school. The sudden death of Selim paralyzed the navy, which soon resumed its accustomed
languor.

The events of 1821, in which the Turkish fleet was defeated by armed merchant vessels of Greece,
gave a fresh impulse to the navy. Experienced officers were placed in command, who, as they
grew in strength, grew in confidence, and trusted more to their own resources than to the protection
of Allah. Six years after the defeat, the navy was in a state of greater practical efficiency
than at any other time. After a protracted struggle of five years it had gained the undisputed
supremacy of the Archipelago; and had it not been for the disastrous defeat at Navarino, it
would have proved equal, if not superior, to the Russian fleet in the Black sea. The Turkish
navy, to-day, numbers about sixty war vessels, six of which are ships of the line, and six
steam frigates, built partly at London and Toulon.

The standing army in times of peace consists of 150,000 regulars; 60,000 auxiliaries (such
as the Egyptian forces); and those of the northern provinces, 110,000; with a corps de reserve
of 150,000--an aggregate of 470,000 men. The army is recruited by lot and conscription (as
in France), and not as formerly, by arbitrary compulsion. Christians are excluded from service
in the infidel ranks, but pay a military tax. Partial infringements, however, have been made
in this exclusion, by employing Armenians in the marine service and at the arsenals. Active
service in the army continues for a period of seven years; and the discharged soldiers belong
to the reserved force for five years more. The organization of the corps de reserve is the
same as that of the regular army. Their arms and equipments are kept in the state arsenals,
and are produced only when the soldiers are called out, which takes place once a year, after
the harvest season. During one month, the members of this corps de reserve lead a military
life, and receive regular pay.

The army is divided into six divisions of 25,000 each. The artillery is modelled after the
most approved Prussian system, while the infantry and cavalry drill according to French tactics,
and use French accoutrements and arms. Thus, Turkey, with a standing army of 150,000 men, can
muster a force of nearly 500,000 at a few hours' notice; provided, however, she has money to
pay the troops, for the religious prejudices of the Osmanlee do not tolerate the system of
loans. So that Turkey, though she has neither the formidable land force of France nor the navy
of England, is not crushed by the weight of a public debt, the principal of which can never
be paid. This military system is the result of the labors of Rija Pasha and Redschid Pasha,
by turn rivals and colleagues, disputing on matters of secondary importance, but ever cordially
cooperating in the regeneration of the empire.

More attention has been given to military than to political reforms. The intolerant Moslem
spirit manifests direct opposition to all innovation in the administration. As their fathers
were, so they wish to be. Before the time of Selim no reform movements of importance had been
made in the administrative branches. For five centuries the sultans had received, as an aphorism
in their political education, that the subjects existed for the good of the sultan, and not
the sultan for the welfare of the people. Selim proclaimed the rights of his subjects and their
supremacy; and his words were confirmed by his deeds.

The administrative system was purely oriental, and bore scarcely any analogy to that of any
other country. From the reign of Solyman to that of Selim--the protector (from whom there is
no appeal) was kept closely confined in the seraglio walls; indeed, he was a state prisoner
from his cradle to the day when he girt around him the imperial sabre. As the sultan reigned
by divine commission, no education was considered good enough for him. Moreover, since his
power was absolute, it had been received as a recognized principle of state policy that he
should be as ignorant as possible, in order that he might prove more faithful to the will of
Allah. Selim banished these antiquated notions, and instituted a new system--not that he lessened
his own power, but established representative bodies to assist him in making laws, and tribunals
to pass judgment upon and execute them.

The sultan is assisted by a divan; or council of ministers, and others, who are nominated to
that dignity by himself. The grand vizier presides over this body, and is responsible for all
measures adopted by it.

The legislative as well as the military system is borrowed from the French; but the sultan
is the source of all law, civil and military; he is the summit, while the municipal institutions
are the base, of the political fabric. In theory at least, these institutions are established
on the broadest principles of freedom. Each community, like the communes of France, sends an
aga, or representative, to the supreme council. By the famous ordinance of Gulhana, Mussulmans,
Jews, and Christians are represented, without distinction, in proportion to their number.

The administration of the interior belongs to the prime minister, who appoints civil governors
to take charge of the general administration. The pashas had hitherto been both civil and military
officers; purchased their appointments at extravagant prices, and repaid themselves by extortions
practised upon the unfortunate subjects over whom they ruled. The appointment of civil governors
removed this old abuse, and left the pashas vested only with military power. Each of the military
chiefs has command of one of the six divisions of which the army is composed. All these officers
receive a fixed salary; and the people, no longer subject to their avarice and tyranny, pay
regular rates of taxation.

The reforms I have mentioned, great as they were, were only preliminary to the publishing of
the hatti-scheriff of Gulhana, the magna charta and bill of rights of Turkey. The son of Mahmoud,
Abdul Medjid, on ascending the throne, published this ordinance, which was to effect a reform
in the internal administration more beneficial than any other, either before or after the destruction
of the Janissaries. The ulemas, state officers, foreign ambassadors, and a vast multitude of
subjects had assembled on the plains of Gulhana. The illustrious writings (as the name signifies)
were read aloud in the presence of this solemn assembly by Redschid Pasha. The sultan, 'under
the direct inspiration of the Most High and of his prophet,' desired to look for the prosperity
of the empire in a good administration. The ulemas addressed a thanksgiving to heaven amid
the acclamations of the assembled thousands. These reforms were threefold: The first guaranteed
security to life, honor, and property; the second is a new system of taxation; the third, a
remodelled plan for levying soldiers, and defining their time of service. The subject can best
be illustrated by quoting a few extracts from the hatti-scheriff itself:

