For his first task, Elliott was compelled to sustain the position that the government of the
United States has the right, under the Constitution, to protect a citizen of the United States
in the exercise of his vested rights as an American citizen, by the exercise of direct force,
or the assertion of immediate jurisdiction through its courts, without the appeal of the State
in which the citizen is domiciled. Asserting the legal maxim that where power is given the
means of its execution are implied, he sought to establish that the power had been given by
Article IV of the Constitution, which imposes upon the Federal Government the duty to protect
the States against domestic violence. He attempted, moreover, to establish by the authority
of the preamble to the Constitution the violence of the "presumption that the majority of the
people of a State may be oppressively subordinated to the minority." To support his own constructions
of the Constitution, Elliott quoted Justice Story on this same issue, pointed out the inconsistencies
in the argument of his chief opponent, defined within the meaning of the Constitution a republican
form of government and thereafter affirmed that the bill in hand came within the limits of
the Constitution.

Elliott had next to establish the validity of the facts upon which the proposed bill was founded.
Little difficulty, indeed, was experienced in bringing forward convincing evidence. There were
presented before the House numerous editorials from Southern newspapers showing the animus
of the enemies of the Negro; the report of the partisan committees of Charleston in 1868; communications
appearing in the Newberry, South Carolina, Herald of July 17 in 1868; the Ku Klux Klan order
appearing in the Charleston News of January 31, 1871; and the printed allegements of leading
unreconstructed Southerners, all of which tended to indicate to what extent violence had superseded
law, and exactly how unsafe were the lives and property of the loyal people of the South. Elliott
quite properly affirmed, therefore, the urgent need for the passage of the bill as a measure
of relief and protection to those in the South, whose liberties had been assailed.

On the political conditions in the South during the decline of the Reconstruction régime many
Congressmen spoke with seeming authority. Two speeches of note on Southern conditions were
made, during the Forty-second Congress, by Robert Brown Elliott. On May 30, 1872, he addressed
the House on the subject of the Ku Klux Klan. In this speech, he exposed the whole scheme of
domination by violence as effected by that element of the Southern whites who would either
"rule[71] or ruin the governments of the several States." The second speech followed remarks
by Voorhees, of Indiana, on the misconduct in financial matters of the administration of South
Carolina. Replying to the specific charge that his party had been guilty of an over-issue of
bonds, Elliott reviewed briefly the financial history of his State for the period in question
and, in conclusion, pointed out, first, that "in a legal sense an over-issue of bonds is an
issue made in excess of such issue authorized by law," and second, that no act of the General
Assembly of South Carolina had limited the extent of bonds to be issued in that State.[72]

An unceasing interest in the political conditions of the South was manifested by John R. Lynch
of Mississippi throughout his three terms in Congress. He was quite active in proposing legislation
relating to the Southern judicial districts of Mississippi, and he offered also an amendment
to the federal election laws.[73] Remarks made by him comprehended discussions of such subjects
as the political affairs of the South, reconstruction and restoration of white rule in Mississippi,
and "the Southern Question."[74] In his analysis of the "Southern Question," Lynch attributed
the condition of the South to certain underlying causes, namely: (1) "A continuous and unnecessary
opposition of the impracticable element within the ranks of the Democratic Party to the system
of reconstruction finally adopted by Congress, and a stubborn refusal on their part to acquiesce
in the results of the War"; (2) "the persistent and uncharitable opposition of this same element--the
element that had obtained control of the party organization and therefore shaped its policy--to
the civil and political rights of Negroes"; and (3) "the methods of the so-called white-league
whereby an armed military organization was maintained to effect a condition of white supremacy."
Lynch, in concluding, appealed to the fairminded and justice-loving people of America to unite
in a common effort to eradicate these evils and secure to the Negroes the rights that they
so justly merited.

Referring to the same situation, Charles E. Nash, a representative from Louisiana to the Forty-fourth
Congress, held to be unjustified the attacks upon the character of the white men and the integrity
and ability of Negroes in the South, who had joined purposes to promote the principles of justice
and of sectional harmony. Furthermore, he entered a general denial of the charge that liberty
in Louisiana had been destroyed, and pointed out the need of a policy of cooperation between
the whites and blacks, to the end that the education of both races might be fostered, that
the indiscriminate and illegal killing of Negroes might be eliminated, and that the reign of
terror effected by a union of the ruffian whites and ignorant blacks might be prevented. Nash
then extolled the record of the party in power for its fairness to the Negro, and arraigned
the attitude of the opposition to all measures designed to ameliorate the condition of the
race. Concluding his remarks, Nash preached the sound doctrine that sectional animosities should
be buried and that all units and sections of the nation should cooperate to the end that a
greater, more humane and more powerful America might be evolved.[75]

The most comprehensive remarks of Smalls of South Carolina concerned the electoral vote and
the policy of parties in his State.[76] In this he pointed out that ruffians had intimidated
the black voters, had driven out the white, and had perpetrated crimes and election frauds
to the end that the political control of the State might be recommitted to the hands of reactionaries.
Concerning the frauds committed in the election held prior to the Forty-fourth Congress, facts
and figures were presented in great detail to verify his contentions.

During his discussion of the proposal to investigate the frauds in the late election in Mississippi,
B. K. Bruce, a senator from that State, came fearlessly to the defense of his State government.
On this occasion, also, he put into the record valuable statistics showing the progress of
the freedmen in Mississippi. The Negroes, he believed, had suffered on account of leadership,
but they had, at that time, better leaders who, though not all educated, yet understood the
duties of citizenship. Senator Bruce[77] believed that the thing needed was peace and good
order at the South, but it could come only by the fullest recognition of the rights of all
classes. The opposition would have to concede the necessity of change, not only in the temper,
but in the philosophy of their party organization and management. The sober American judgment
would have to obtain in the South, as elsewhere in the Republic, since the only distinctions
upon which parties can be safely organized in harmony with our institutions, are differences
of opinion relative to principles and policy of government; because differences of religion,
nationality, race, can neither with safety nor propriety be permitted to enter into the party
contests. The unanimity with which the Negro voters acted with a party was not referable to
any race prejudice. On the contrary, the Negroes invited the political cooperation of their
white brethren, and voted as a unit because proscribed as such. They deprecated the establishment
of the color line by the opposition, not only because the act was unwise and wrong in principle,
but because it isolated them from the white man of the South and forced them in sheer self-protection
and against their inclination to act seemingly upon the basis of race prejudice which they
neither respected nor entertained. As a class he believed they were free from prejudices and
had no uncharitable suspicions against their white fellow citizens, whether native born or
settlers from the Northern States. "When Negroes," continued he, "can entertain opinions and
select party affiliations without proscription, and cast their ballots as other citizens and
without jeopardy to person or privilege, they can safely afford to be governed by the considerations
that ordinarily determine the political actions of American citizens." Senator Bruce asked,
therefore, not for new laws, but rather for the enforcement of the old. Peace in the South
could come, he believed, only by guaranteeing the protection of the law.

Replying in part to the remarks of Senator Colquitt, from Georgia, Miller, a representative
from South Carolina in the Fifty-first Congress, spoke impressively on the subject, "Southern
Affairs."[78] The colleague of Miller in this Congress, John M. Langston of Virginia, spoke
at great length on the federal election laws, pointing out the need for an adequate legislation
and its proper enforcement.[79] He offered, moreover, a measure directing an inquiry relative
to the instructions of the Attorney-General concerning elections.

To the bill to repeal all statutes relating to supervisors of elections and special deputy
marshals, George W. Murray, a member of the Fifty-third and Fifty-fourth Congresses, took vigorous
exception.[80] Asserting that such action would have the effect of promoting the election frauds
of the reactionaries in the South, and that already in the States of Louisiana, Mississippi,
and South Carolina, a decided minority of the voting population of each Congressional district
elected regularly the representative to Congress, he maintained that the present law should
not only remain unchanged, but rather, be vigorously enforced. He introduced, moreover, measures
designed to assure minority representation in federal elections[81] and to investigate the
political conditions in the State of South Carolina.

INTEREST IN ECONOMIC PROBLEMS

Although not equally interesting to the Negro Congressmen as matters of political import, to
not a few of them problems essentially economic in character, or at any rate, of economic significance,
made a forceful appeal. Measures designed to provide superior facilities for the trade and
commerce of their communities constituted, in some instances, the most valuable service rendered
by these legislators.

With the interests of his constituency ever in mind, Benjamin S. Turner of Alabama, a member
of the Forty-second Congress, proposed various measures to effect local improvements.[82] He
urged a distribution of the public lands, proposed a bill to erect a public building in Selma,
sought to increase the appropriation for rivers and harbors from $50,000 to $75,000, and made
efforts to secure improvements in navigation in Alabama waters.

Of all the Congressmen, Josiah T. Walls of Florida was perhaps the most persistent in the effort
to secure improvements for his district and State.[83] He introduced numerous bills to erect
in his district custom houses and other public buildings, and to improve the rivers and harbors
of his State. Walls introduced also bills to provide a lifesaving station along the coast of
Florida, to amend an act granting right of way through public lands for the construction of
railroad and telegraph lines through Florida, and to create an additional land district. He
sought further to amend an appropriation bill to the end that $50,000 be made available for
the establishment of a navy yard at Pensacola.

James T. Rapier, who succeeded Turner in Congress, continued, to some extent, the policy of
the latter to secure local improvements.[84] Of two measures introduced by Rapier, one proposed
to erect public buildings in his district, the other to make improvements in the rivers and
harbors of the State. He succeeded in having enacted into law his measure to constitute Montgomery,
Alabama, a port of entry.

The policy of John R. Lynch of Mississippi in the matter of local improvements[85] did not
differ materially from that of Rapier. Lynch proposed measures for the construction of the
Memphis and New Orleans Railroad, for the construction of public buildings and custom houses,
and for the improvement of rivers within the State of Mississippi.

Smalls, of South Carolina, likewise concerned himself with the matter of local improvements.[86]
He endeavored to secure an appropriation for the restoration of the Beaufort Library which
was destroyed during the War. He proposed measures to establish in his district custom houses,
docks, warehouses, a weather observation station, and other public buildings. He was interested
also in the redemption of lands held by direct taxes and sought to promote a measure for the
construction of telegraph lines in the State. Similarly concerned was James E. O'Hara of North
Carolina, whose chief measures for improvements[87] embraced bills to erect public buildings
in his district, and to improve the rivers and harbors in his State. Murray, of South Carolina,
was some years later advocating the exemption of the Young Men's Christian Association from
taxation and the relief of cyclone sufferers in Beaufort, South Carolina.

The Negro Congressman, too, had an interest in the more important economic questions. On the
question of the tariff several Congressmen expressed opinions. In the Forty-second Congress,
Josiah T. Walls sought to amend the tax and tariff bill relative to certain commodities produced
in the State of Florida.[88] He favored a tariff for protection as opposed to one for revenue
only. During a similar discussion, in the House, John R. Lynch, a member of the Forty-seventh
Congress, urged a protective tariff[89] for cotton, lumber, and sugar. His argument was that
the cotton producers of the South were in favor of a protective tariff. When its producing
class (meaning labor) was slave, when all of its products were exported, when all of its wants
were supplied from without, and when cotton was its only interest, the South favored cheap
labor and free trade. At this time, however, labor was free as distinguished from slave, and
it therefore added to the cost of production, while jute, sugar, rice, lumber, and manufactures
in the embryonic stage, shared with cotton the interests of producers. These changed conditions,
he maintained, demanded for the South a policy of reasonable protection.

