The windows of the building shone brightly throughout the nights when the call was answered,
and engineers and draftsmen worked at fever heat on thrusts and stresses and involved mathematical
calculations. And, while owners of great manufacturing plants waited with unaccustomed patience
for a moment's talk with Blake, the white sheets on the drafting boards showed growing pictures
of braces and struts and curved plates, of castings for gun mounts, and ammunition hoists.
And the manufacturers were told in no uncertain terms exactly what part of this experimental
ship they would produce, and when it must be delivered.

"If only we dared go into production," said Blake; "but it is out of the question. This first
ship must demonstrate its efficiency; we must get the 'bugs' out of our design; correct our
errors and be ready with a production schedule that will work with precision."

Only one phase of this proposed production troubled him; the manufacture must be handled all
over the world. He talked with men from England and France, from Germany and Italy and a host
of other lands, and he raged inwardly while he tried to drive home to them the necessity for
handling the work in just one way--his way--if results were to be achieved.

The men of business he could convince, but his chief disquiet came from those whose thoughts
were of what they termed "statesmanship," and who seemed more apprehensive of the power that
this new weapon would give the United States of America than they were of the threat from distant
worlds.

From his friends in high quarters came hints of the same friction, but he knew that the one
demand Winslow had laid down was being observed: the secret of the mysterious fuel would remain
with us. Winslow had shown little confidence in the countries of the old world, and he had
sworn Blake to an agreement that his strange liquids--that new form of matter and substance--should
remain with this country.

       *       *       *       *       *

And swiftly the paper ship grew. The parts were in manufacture, and arriving at the assembly
plant in Ohio. Blake's time was spent there now, and he caught only snatches of sleep on a
cot in his office, while he worked with the forces of men who succeeded each other to keep
the assembly room going night and day.

There was an enormous hangar that was designed for the assembling of a giant dirigible; it
housed another ship now. Hardly a ship, yet it began to take form where great girders held
the keel that was laid, and duralumin plates and strong castings were bolted home.

A thousand new problems, and innumerable vexing errors--the "bugs" that inhere with a new,
mechanical job--yet the day came when the ship was a thing of sleek beauty, and her thousand
feet of length enclosed a maze of latticed struts where ammunition rooms and sleeping quarters,
a chart room and control stations were cleverly interspaced. And above, where the great shape
towered high in the big hangar, were the lean snouts of cannon, and recesses that held rapid-fire
guns and whole batteries of machine guns for close range.

Rows of great storage batteries were installed, to furnish the first current for the starting
of the ship, till her dynamos that were driven by the exhaust blast itself could go into action
and carry on. And then--

An armored truck that ground slowly up under heavy guard to deliver two small flasks of liquid
whose tremendous weight must be held in containers of thick steel, and be hoisted with cranes
to their resting place within the ship. And Captain Blake, with his heart in his throat through
fear of some failure, some slip in their plans--Captain Blake, of the gaunt, worn frame, and
face haggard from sleepless nights--stood quietly at a control board while the great doors
of the hangar swung open.

       *       *       *       *       *

At the closing of a switch the current from the batteries flowed through the two liquids, to
go on in conductors of heavy copper to a generator that was heavy and squat and devoid of moving
parts. Within it were electrodes that were castings of copper, and between them the miracle
of regenerated matter was taking place.

What came to them as energy from the cables was transformed to a tangible thing--a vast bulk
of gas, of hydrogen and oxygen that had once been water, and the pressure of the gas made a
roaring inferno of the exhausts. A spark plug ignited it, and the heat of combustion added
pressure to pressure, while the quivering, invisible live steam poured forth to change to vaporous
clouds that filled the hangar.

The man at the control board stood trembling with knowledge of the power he had unleashed.
He moved a lever to crack open a valve, and the clouds poured now from beneath the ship, that
raised slowly and smoothly in the air. It hung quietly poised, while the hands that directed
it sent a roaring blast from the great stern exhaust, and the creation of many minds became
a thing of life that moved slowly, gliding out into the sunlight of the world.

The cheers of crowding men, insane with hysterical emotion at sight of their work's fulfillment,
were lost in the thunder of the ship. The blunt bow lifted where the sun made dazzling brilliance
of her sweeping curves, and with a blast that thundered from her stern the first unit of the
space forces of the Earth swept upward in an arc of speed that ended in invisibility. No enveloping
air could hold her now; she was launched in the ocean of space that would be her home.

       *       *       *       *       *

Captain Blake, the following day, sat in Washington before a desk piled high with telegrams
of congratulation. His tired face was smiling as he replaced a telephone receiver that had
spoken words of confidence and commendation from the President of the United States. But he
pushed the mass of yellow papers aside to resume his examination of a well-thumbed folder marked:
"Production Schedule." The real work was yet to be done.

It was only two short months later that he sat before the same desk, with a face that showed
no mark of smiles in its haggard lines.

His ship was a success, and was flying continuously, while men of the air service were trained
in its manipulation and gunners received practice in three-dimensioned range finding and cruiser
practice in the air. Above, in the airless space, they learned to operate the guns that were
controlled from within the air-tight rooms. They were learning, and the ship performed the
miracles that were now taken as matters of fact.

But production!

Captain Blake rose wearily to attend a conference at the War Department. He had asked that
it be called, and the entire service was represented when he reached there. He went without
preamble or explanation to the point.

"Mr. Secretary," he said, and faced the Secretary of War, "I have to report, sir, that we have
failed. It is utterly impossible, under present conditions, to produce a fleet of completed ships.

"You know the reason; I have conferred with you often. It was a mistake to depend on foreign
aid; they have failed us. I do not criticize them: their ways are their own, and their own
problems loom large to them. The English production of parts has come through, or is proceeding
satisfactorily, but the rest is in hopeless confusion. The Red menace from Russia is the prime
reason, of course. With the Reds mobilizing their forces, we cannot blame her neighbors for
preparing to defend themselves. But our program!--and the sure invasion that will come in six
short months!--to be fighting among ourselves--it is damnable!"

       *       *       *       *       *

He paused to stare in wordless misery at the silent gathering before him. Then--

"I have failed," he blurted out. "I have fallen down on the job. It was my responsibility to
get the cooperation that insured success. Let me step aside. Is there anyone now who can take
up the work and bring order and results from this chaos of futility?"

He waited long for a reply. It was the Secretary of War who answered in a quiet voice.

"We must not be too harsh," he said, "in our criticism of our foreign friends, but neither
should we be unfair to Captain Blake. You do yourself an injustice; there is no one who could
have done more than you. The reason is here." He struck at a paper that he held in his hand.
"Europe is at war. Russia has struck without warning; her troops are moving and her air force
is engaged this minute in an attack upon Paris. It is a traitor country at home that has defeated
us in our war with another world."

"I think," he added slowly, "there is nothing more that could have been done: you have made
a brave effort. Let us thank you, Captain Blake, while we can. We will fight, when the time
comes, as best we can; that goes without saying."

A blue and gold figure arose slowly to speak a word for the navy. "It is evident by Captain
Blake's own admission, that the proposed venture must fail. It has been evident to some of
us from the start." It was a fighter of the old school who was speaking; his voice was that
of one whose vision has dimmed, who sees but the dreams of impractical visionaries in the newer
inventions, and whose reliance for safety is placed only in the weapons he knows.

"The naval forces of the United States will be ready," he told them, "and I would ask you to
remember that we can still place dependence upon the ships that float in the water, and the
forces who have manned them since the history of this country began."

       *       *       *       *       *

Captain Blake had sprung to his feet. Again he addressed the Secretary for War.

"Mr. Secretary," he said, and there was a fighting glint in his eyes, "I make no reply to this
gentleman. His arm of the service will speak for itself as it has always done. But your own
words have given me new hope and new energy. I ask you, Mr. Secretary, for another chance.
The industrial forces of the United States are behind us to the last man and the last machine.
I have talked with them. I know!

"We have only six months left for a prodigious effort. Shall we make it? For the safety of
our country and the whole world let us attempt the impossible: go ahead on our own; turn the
energy and the mind of this whole country to the problem.

"The great fleet of the world can never be. Shall we build and launch the Great Fleet of the
United States, and take upon our own shoulders the burden and responsibility of defense?

"It cannot be done by reasonable standards, but the time is past for reason. Possible or otherwise,
we must do it. We will--if you will back me in the effort!"

There was a rising discord of excited voices in the room. Men were leaping to their feet to
shake vehement fists in the faces of those who wagged their heads in protest. The Secretary
of War arose to still the storm. He turned to walk toward the waiting figure of Captain Blake.

"You can't do it," he said, and gripped the Captain by the hand; "you can't do it--but you
may. This country has seen others who have done the impossible when the impossible had to be
done. It's your job; the President will confirm my orders. Go to it, Blake!"

CHAPTER XVIII

The wires that bound the two men were removed, and McGuire and Sykes worked in agony to bring
life back to the hands and feet that were swollen and blue. Then--red guards who forced them
to stumble on their numbed legs, where darting pains made them set their lips tight--a car
that went swiftly through the darkness of a tube to stop finally in another building--a room
with metal walls, one window with a balcony beyond, high above the ground--a door that clanged
behind them; and the two men, looking one at the other with dismayed and swollen eyes, knew
in their hearts that here, beyond a doubt, was their last earthly habitation.

They said nothing--there was nothing of hope or comfort to be said--and they dropped soddenly
upon the hard floor, where finally the heavy breathing and nervous starts of Professor Sykes
showed that to him at least had come the blessed oblivion of exhausted sleep. But there was
no sleep for Lieutenant McGuire.

There was a face that shone too clearly in the dark, and his thoughts revolved endlessly in
words of reproach for his folly in allowing Althora's love to lead her to share his risk. From
the night outside their window came a ceaseless clatter and hubbub, but to this he was oblivious.

Only with the coming of morning's soft golden light did McGuire know the reason for the din
and activity that echoed from outside--and the reason, too, for their being placed in this room.

       *       *       *       *       *

Their lives should end with the sailing of the fleet, and there, outside their window, were
the ships themselves. Ships everywhere, as far as he could see across the broad level expanse,
and an army of men who scurried like ants--red ones, who worked or directed the others, and
countless blues and yellows who were loading the craft with enormous cargoes.

"Squawk, damn you!" said Lieutenant McGuire to the distant shrieking throng; "and I hope they're
ready for you when you reach the earth." But his savage voice carried no conviction. What was
there that Earth could do to meet this overwhelming assault?

"What is it?" asked Sykes. He roused from his sleep to work gingerly at his aching muscles,
then came and stood beside McGuire.

"They have put us here as a final taunt," McGuire told him. "There is the fleet that is going
to make our world into a nice little hell, and Torg, the beast! has put us here to see it leave.
Then we get ours, and they don't know that we know that."

"Your first way was the best," the scientist observed; "we should have done it then. We still can."

"What do you mean?" The flyer's voice was dull and lifeless.

Sykes pointed to the little balcony and the hard pavement below.

"Althora," he said, and McGuire winced at the name, "seemed to think that we were in for some
exquisite torture. Here is the way out. It is a hundred-foot drop; they think we are safe;
but they have been unintentionally kind."

"Yes," his companion agreed, "they don't know that we know of the torture. We will wait ...
and when I am sure that--Althora--is--gone ... when there is nothing I can do to help--"

"Help?" queried the professor gently. "There is nothing now of help, nor anyone who can help
us. We must face it, my boy; c'est fini. Our little journey is approaching its end."

       *       *       *       *       *

There was no reply, and McGuire stood throughout the day to stare with eyes of smouldering
hatred where the scurrying swarms of living things made ready to invade and infest the earth.

Food and water was pushed through the doorway, but he ate sparingly of the odd-colored fruits;
the only thing that could hold his thoughts from the hopeless repetition of unanswerable "whys"
was the sight of the fleet. And every bale and huge drum was tallied mentally as it passed
before his eyes. The ships were being loaded, and with their sailing--But, no! He must not
let himself think of that!

Throughout the day ships came and departed, and one leviathan, ablaze in scarlet color; sailed
in to settle down where great steel arms enfolded it, not far from the watching men. Scarlet
creatures in authority directed operations, and workmen swarmed about the great ship. Once
McGuire swore softly and viciously under his breath, for he had seen a figure that could be
only that of Torg, and the crowd saluted with upraised arms as the scarlet figure passed into
the scarlet ship. This, McGuire knew, was the flagship that should carry Torg himself. Torg
and ----. He paled at the thought of the other name.

The only break in the long day came with the arrival of a squad of guards, who hustled the
two men out into a passageway and drove them to another room, where certain measurements were
taken. The muscular figures of the two were different from these red ones, but it was a moment
before McGuire realized the sinister significance of the proceedings. Their breadth of shoulders,
the thickness of their chests--what had these figures to do with their captivity? And then
the flyer saw the measures compared with the dimensions of a steel cage. Its latticed shape
could be endlessly compressed, and within, he saw, were lancet points that lined the ghastly
thing throughout. Long enough to torture, but not to kill; a thousand delicate blades to pierce
the flesh; and the instrument, it seemed, was of a size that could enclose the writhing, helpless
body of a man.

Other unnameable contrivances about the room took on new significance with the knowledge that
here was the chamber of horrors whose workings had been seen by Althora in the mind of their
captor--horrors of which she could not speak.

       *       *       *       *       *

McGuire was sick and giddy as the guards led him roughly back to their prison room. And Professor
Sykes, too, required no explanation of what they had seen.

The guards were many, and resistance was useless, but each man looked silently at the other's
desperate eyes when the metal cords were twisted again about their wrists, and their hands
were tied securely to metal rings anchored in the wall beside the window.

"And there," said the flyer, "goes our last chance of escape. They were not as dumb as we thought:
they knew how good a leap to the pavement would look after we had been in there."

"Less than human!" Sykes was quoting the comment of Althora's brother. "I think Djorn was quite
conservative in his statement."

McGuire examined carefully the cords that tied his hands to the wall beside him. The knots
were secure, and the metal ring was smooth and round. "I didn't know," he said, as he worked
and twisted, "but there might be a cutting edge, but we haven't a chance. No getting rid of
these without a wire cutter or an acetylene torch--and we seem to be just out of both."

Professor Sykes tried to adopt the other's nonchalant tone. "Careless of us," he began--then
stopped breathless to press his body against the wall.

"It's there!" he said. "Oh, my God, if I could only get it, it might work--it might!"

"The battery," he explained to the man beside him, whose assumed indifference vanished at this
suggestion of hope; "--the little battery that I used on the gun, to fire the explosive. It
has an astounding amperage, and a voltage around three hundred. It's in my pocket--and I can't
reach it!"

"You can't keep a good man licked!" McGuire exulted. "You mean that the current might melt
the wire?"

"Soften it, perhaps, depending upon the resistance." Sykes refused to share the other's excitement.
"But we can't get at it."

"We've got to," was the answer. "Move over this way." The man in khaki twisted his arms awkwardly
to permit him to bend his body to one side, and beads of sweat stood out on his forehead as
the strain forced the thin bonds into his wrists. But he brought his agonized face against
the other's body, and gripped the fabric of Sykes' coat between his teeth.

       *       *       *       *       *

The twisting of his head raised the cloth an inch at a time, and despite Sykes' efforts to
hold the garment with his elbow, it slipped back time and again. McGuire straightened at intervals
to draw a choking breath and ease the strain upon his tortured wrists; then back again in his
desperate contortions to worry at the cloth and pull and hold--and try again to raise the heavy
pocket where a battery made sagging folds.

He was faint and gasping when finally the cloth was brought where the scientist's straining
fingers could grasp it to writhe and twist in clumsy efforts that would force the battery's
terminals within reach.

"I'll try it on mine," said Sykes. "It may be hot--and you've had your share." He was holding
the flat black thing to bring the copper tips against the metal about his wrists. McGuire saw
the man's lips go white as a wisp of smoke brought to his nostrils the sickening odor of burned
flesh.

The metal glowed, and the man was writhing in silent self-torture when at last he threw his
weight upon the strands and fell backward to the floor. He lay for a moment, trembling and
quivering--but free. And the knowledge of that freedom and of the greater torture they would
both escape, gave him strength to rise and work with crippled hands at his companion's bonds,
till McGuire, too, was free--free to forget his own swollen, bleeding wrists in compassionate
regard for the other.

Like an injured animal, Professor Sykes had licked with his tongue at his wrists, where hot
wire had burned deep and white, and he was trying for forgetfulness an hour later, in examination
of the door to their room.

"What is the idea?" McGuire inquired, when he turned from his ceaseless contemplation of the
fleet. "Not trying to get out, are you?"

"I am trying to stay in," said Sykes, and looked again at the object that interested him. "These
long bolts," he explained: "top and bottom; operated from outside, but exposed in here. They
come together when unlocked; five inches apart now. If I had something to hold them apart--

"You haven't a piece of steel about five inches long, have you?--or anything to substitute
for it? If you have, I can lock this door so the devils won't come in and surprise us before
we can make the jump."

"The battery?" suggested McGuire.

       *       *       *       *       *

Sykes shook his head. "I tried it. Too long, and besides it would crumble. They operate these
with a lever; I saw it outside." He went on silently with his study of the door and the little
gap between heavy bolts, which, if closed, would mean security from invasion.

"They're about through," McGuire spoke from his post at the window after some time. "The rush
seems to be about over. I imagine they'll pull out in the morning."

He pointed as Sykes stood beside him. "Those big ones over beyond have not been touched all
day; only some of the crew, I judge, working around them. And way over you see forty or fifty
whaling big ones: they must have been ready before we came. They have finished on these nearer
by. It looks like a big day for the brutes."

And Professor Sykes led him on to talk more of the preparations he had seen, and his deductions
as to the morrow. It was all too evident what was really on the lieutenant's mind. It was not
the thought of their own immediate death, but the terrible dread and horror of Althora's fate,
that hammered and hammered in his brain. To speak of anything else meant a moment's relief.

Sykes pointed to a tall mast that was set in the plaza pavement, some hundred feet away. Wires
swung from it to several points, one of them ending above their window and entering the building.
"What is that?" he asked, "--some radio device? That ball of metal on the top might be an aerial."
But McGuire had fallen silent again, and stared stonily at the deadly fighting ships he was
powerless to combat.

       *       *       *       *       *

On the morning that followed, there was no uncertainty. This was the day! And from a balconied
window up high in the side of a tall stone building, two men stood wordless and waiting while
they watched the preparations below.

The open space was a sea of motion like flowing blood, where thousands of figures in dull red
marched in rank after rank to be swallowed in the mammoth ships that McGuire had noted in the
distance. Then other colors, and swarms of what they took to be women-folk of this wild race--a
medley of color that flowed on and on as if it would never cease, to fill one after another
of the great ships.

"Transports, that's what they are," said McGuire. "I can see now why they have no steel beaks
like the others. They don't need any rams, nor ports for firing that beastly gas. They are
gray, too, while the fighting ships are striped with red, all except the scarlet one of Torg's.
Those are colonists we are watching, and soldiers to conquer the Earth where the damned swarm
settles."

He stopped to stare at a body of red-clad soldiers, drawn up at attention. They made a lane,
and their arms were raised in the salute that seemed only for Torg. They stood rigid and motionless;
then, from below the watching men, came one in the full splendor of his scarlet regalia. The
air echoed with the din of his shouted name, but the bedlam of noise fell on deaf ears for
McGuire. He could hear nothing, and in all the vast kaleidoscope of color he could see only
one object--the white face of a girl who was half led and half carried by a guard of the red
ones, where their Emperor led the way.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was a strangled cry that was torn from the flyer's throat--the name of this girl who was
going to the doom she had failed to avoid. Her life, she had said, was hers to keep only if
she willed, but her plans had failed, and she went faltering and stumbling after a scarlet
man beast.

"Althora!" called the flyer, and the figure of the girl was struggling with her guards in a
frenzy that tore their hands free. She turned to look toward the sound of the voice, and her
face was like that of one dead as her eyes found the man she loved.

"Tommy," she called: "oh, Tommy, my dear! Good-by!" The words were ended by the clutch of the
scarlet Emperor who turned to seize her.

A clatter came from the door behind them, but Lieutenant McGuire gave no heed. Only Professor
Sykes sprang back from the balcony to seize and struggle with the moving bolts.

The man on the balcony was hardly less than a maniac as he glared wildly about, but he was
not too unreasoning to see the folly of a wild leap into the throng below. He could never reach
her--never. And then his eyes fell upon the wire that led from above him to the great pole
in the open plaza. There was shouting from behind where the executioners were wrestling with
the bolts.

"Hold them," the flyer shouted, "just for a minute! For God's sake, Sykes, keep them back!
There's a chance!"

He sprang to the balustrade of the balcony, but he saw as he leaped where Professor Sykes had
raised his leg to force the thickness of his knee between the bolts whose levers outside were
bringing them closer together.

"Go to it," was the answer. "I can hold them"--a stifled groan--"for a--minute!" Professor
Sykes had found his substitute for five inches of steel, and the living flesh yielded but slowly
to the pressure of the bolts.

       *       *       *       *       *

McGuire was working frantically at the wire, then held himself in check while he carefully
unwound it from its fastening. There was a splice, and he worked with bleeding fingers to unfasten
the tight coils. And then the end was free and in his hands. He dropped to the balcony to pull
in the slack, and he wrapped the end about beneath his arms and twisted it tight, then leaped
out into space. No thought of himself nor of Sykes in this one wild moment, only of Althora
in the grip of those beastly hands.

He was struggling to turn himself in the air as the colored masses of people seemed sweeping
toward him, and he shot as a living pendulum, feet first, into the waiting heads.

He was on his feet in an instant and tearing at the twisted wire that held him. About him was
clamor and confusion, but beyond the nearer figures he saw the one who waited, and beside her
a thing in scarlet that shrieked orders to his men.

He flung off one who leaped toward him, and ducked another to dash through and reach his man.
And he neither saw nor felt the creature's ripping talons as he drove a succession of rights
and lefts to the blood-red face.

The scarlet one went backward under the fusillade of blows; he was down, a huddle of color
upon the pavement, and a horde of paralyzed soldiers had recovered from their stupefaction
and were rushing upon the flyer. He turned to meet them, but their rush ended as quickly as
it began: only a step or two they came, then stopped, to add their wild voices to the confusion
of ear-splitting shrieks that rose from all sides.

       *       *       *       *       *

McGuire crouched rigid, tense and waiting, nor did he sense for an instant that the assault
was checked and that the faces of all about him were turned to the sky. It was the voice of
Althora that aroused him:

"Tommy! Tommy!" she was calling, and now she was at his side, her arms about him. "What is
it, Tommy? Look! Look!" And she too was gazing aloft. And then, above all other sounds McGuire
heard the roar--

The clouds were golden above with the brilliance of midday--and against them, hard and sharp
of outline, was a shining shape. A cloud of vapor streamed behind it as it shot down from the
clouds, and the thunder of its coming was like the roar of many cannon.

A ship of the red ones was in the air--a fighting ship, whose stripes showed red--and it drove
at the roaring menace with its steel beak and a swirling cloud of gas. It seemed that they
must crash, when to McGuire's eyes came the stabbing flash of heavy guns from the shining shape.
A crashing explosion came down to them as the great beak parted and fell, and the body of the
red-striped monster opened in bursting smoke and flame, tore slowly into fragments and fell
swiftly to the earth.

It struck with a shattering crash some distance away, but one pair of eyes failed to follow
it in its fall. For in the clear air above, with the golden light of distant clouds upon it,
a roaring monster of silvery sheen had rolled and swept upward to the heights. And it showed,
as it turned, a painted emblem on its bow, a design of clear-cut color, unbelievably familiar--a
circle of blue, and within it a white star and a bull's eye of red--the mark of the flying
service of the United States!

       *       *       *       *       *

McGuire never knew how he got Althora and himself back to the building whence he had come.
Nor did he see the struggling figures on a balcony, or the leap and fall of a maimed body,
where Professor Sykes, when the door had yielded, found surcease and oblivion on the pavement
below.

He was to learn that later, but now he had eyes only for a sight that could be but a dream,
an unreal vision of a disordered brain. He held the slim form of Althora to him in a crushing
grip, while he stared, dry-eyed, above, and his own voice seemed to shout from afar off: "They're
ours!" that voice was screaming in a frenzy of exultation. "They're our ships! They've come
across!"

The fighting fleet of the red man-things of Venus was taking to the air! The ships rose in
a swarm of speeding, darting shapes, and the great one of Torg was in the lead, climbing in
fury toward the heights.

Far above them the clouds of gold silhouetted a strange sight, and the air was shaking with
the thunder from on high, where, straight and true, a line of silver ships in the sharp V of
battle formation drove downward in a deadly, swift descent.

And even afar off, the straining eyes of a half-crazed man could see the markings on their
bow--a circle and a star--and the colors of his own lost fighters of the air.

CHAPTER XIX

The Earth-fleet was a slanting line of swiftness that swept downward from the clouds. A swarm
of craft was rising from below. The red-striped fighters met the attack first with a cloud of gas.

The scarlet monster--the flagship of Torg, the Emperor--was in the lead, and they shot with
terrific speed across the bows of the oncoming fleet to leave a whirlwind of deadly vapor as
they passed. McGuire held his breath in an agony of fear as the cloud enveloped the line of
ships, but their bow guns roared staccato crashes in the thunder of their exhausts as they
entered the cloud. And they were firing from the stern as they emerged, while two falling cylinders
of red and white proved the effectiveness of their fire.

The formation held true as it swept upward and back where the swarming enemy was waiting. They
were outnumbered three to one, McGuire saw, and his heart sang within him as he watched the
sharp, speeding V that climbed upward to the enemy's level then swung to throw itself like
a lance of light at the massed ships that awaited the attack.

Another cloud of gas!--and a shattered ship!--and again the line emerged to correct its broken
formation and drive once more toward the circling swarm.

They came to meet them now, the clusters of red-striped fighting ships, and they tore in from
all sides upon the American line, their hooked beaks gleaming in the sun.

       *       *       *       *       *

And now, at an unseen signal, the formation broke. Each ship fought for its life, and the stabbing
flashes of their guns made ceaseless jets of light against the smoke and gas clouds that were
darkening the sky.

"A dog-fight!" breathed Lieutenant McGuire; "and what a dog-fight!" His words were lost in
the terrific thunder from above: the roar of the ships and the dull thuds of the guns engulfed
them in a maelstrom of noise that battered like physical blows on the watchers below. He swore
unconsciously and called down curses upon the enemy as he saw two fighters meet while the shining
beak of a ship of the reds crashed through the body of an opposing craft.

The red ship dipped at the bow; it backed off with terrific force; and from the curved beak
a ship with the insignia of the red, white and blue slid downward in a swift fall to the death
that waited.

They had fought themselves clear, and the Americans, by what must have been arrangement or
wireless order, went roaring to the heights. There were some who followed, but the guns of
the speeding ships drove them off. Red-and-white shapes fell swiftly from the clouds where
the fighting had been, and McGuire knew that his fellows had given an account of themselves
in the fighting at close range.

Again the thundering line was sharp and true, and another unswerving attack was launching itself
from above. And again the deadly formation, with ever-increasing speed, drove into the enemy
with flashing guns, then parted to close with the ones that drove crushingly upon them, while
the sharper clatter of rapid-firing guns came to shatter the air.

The fighting craft had been rising from their level field in a succession that seemed endless.
They were all in the air now, and only the great transports remained on the paved field.

       *       *       *       *       *

A red-striped fighter swept downward in retreat, and, from the smoke clouds, a silvery shape
followed in pursuit. It reached the red and white one with its shells, and the great mass crashed
with terrific impact on the field. Its pursuer must have seen the monsters still on the ground,
and it swung to rake them with a shower of small-caliber shells.

There were machine-guns rattling as it passed above the thronged reds--the troops who were
huddled in terror in the open court. It tore on past them--past a figure in khaki who raced
forward with the golden form of a girl within his arms, then released her to wave frantically
as the silver ship shot by.

Unobserved, McGuire and Althora had been, where they stood beside the buildings: the eyes of
their enemies, like their own, were on the monstrous battle above. But now they had called
themselves to the attention of the reds, and there were some who rushed upon them with faces
livid with rage.

McGuire reached for a weapon from a victim of the machine-gun fire and prepared to defend himself,
but the weapon was never used. He saw the silvery shape reverse itself in the air; it turned
sharply to throw itself back toward the solitary figure in uniform of their service and the
golden-clad girl beside him.

The flyer raised his weapon, but the jostling swarm that rushed upon him melted: the ripping
fire of machine guns was deafening in his ears. Their deadly tattoo continued while the great
ship sank slowly to touch and rest its huge bulk upon the pavement. A door in the ship's curved
side opened that the blocky figure of a man might leap forth.

He was grimy of face, and his uniform was streaked with the smoke and sweat of battle, but
the face beneath the grime, and the hands that reached to embrace and pound the flyer upon
the back, could be only those of one he had known as his captain--Captain Blake.

"You son-of-a-gun!" the shouting figure was repeating. "You damned Irish son-of-a-gun! A. W.
O. L.--but you can't get away with it! Come on--get in here! I'm needed up above!"

       *       *       *       *       *

McGuire was struggling to speak from a throat that was suddenly tight and voiceless. Then--

"Althora," he gasped; "take Althora!" and he motioned toward the girl. And then he remembered
the companion he had left in the room above. The battle that had flashed so suddenly had blasted
from his mind all other thoughts.

"My God!" he said. "--Sykes! I--must get Sykes!"

He turned to run back to the building, only to stop in consternation where a huddle of clothing
lay beneath the balcony of their prison room.

It was Sykes--Sykes who had sacrificed himself to make possible the escape of his friend--and
McGuire dropped to his knees to touch the body that he knew was shattered beyond any hope of
life. He raised the limp burden in his arms and staggered back where more khaki-clad figures
had gathered. Two came quickly out to meet him, and he let them take the body of his friend.

"C'est fini!"--he repeated the words that Sykes had said; "the end of our little journey!"
The arms of Althora were about him as Blake hurried them into the waiting ship, and the roar
of enormous power marked the rising of this space ship to throw itself again into the fray.

       *       *       *       *       *

A small room with a dome of shatter-proof glass; a pilot who sat there to look in all directions,
a control-board beneath his hands. Beside him on his elevated station was room for Captain
Blake, and McGuire and Althora, too. The ship was climbing swiftly. McGuire saw where flashing
shapes circled and roared in a swelling cloud of smoke and gas.

Blake spoke sharply to an aide: "General orders! All ships climb to resume formation!"

An enemy ship was before them: it flashed from nowhere to bear down with terrific speed. The
floor beneath them shook with the jarring of heavy guns, and McGuire saw the advancing shape
bursting with puffs of smoke, while their own ship shot upward with a sickening twist. A silver
ship was falling!--and another!

"Two more of ours gone," said Captain Blake through set teeth. "How many of them are there,
Mac? Tell me what you know: we've got a hell of a fight on our hands."

