    "They come to the castelle yate
     The porter was redy there at,
     The porter to theyme they gan calle,
     And prayd hym go in to the halle,
     And say thy lady gent and fre,
     That comen ar men of ferre contrè,
     And if it plese hyr, we wolle hyr pray,
     That we myght ete with hyr to-day."

On this passage Warton remarks:

     "She was lady, by inheritance, of the signory. The female
     feudatories exercised all the duties and honours of their
     feudal jurisdiction in person. In Spenser, where we read of
     the Lady of the Castle, we are to understand such a
     character. See a story of a Comtesse, who entertains a
     knight in her castle with much gallantry. (Mém. sur l'Anc.
     Chev., ii. 69.) It is well known that anciently in England
     ladies were sheriffs of counties."

To this note of Warton's, Park adds another, which I also give as being more conclusive on
the subject. It is as follow:

     ["Margaret, Countess of Richmond, was a justice of peace. Sir
     W. Dugdale tells us that Ela, widow of William, Earl of
     Salisbury, executed the sheriff's office for the county of
     Wilts, in different parts of the reign of Henry III. (See
     Baronage, vol. i. p. 177.) From Fuller's Worthies we find
     that Elizabeth, widow of Thomas Lord Clifford, was sheriffess
     of Westmoreland for many years; and from Pennant's Scottish
     Tour we learn that for the same county Anne, the celebrated
     Countess of Dorset, Pembroke and Montgomery, often sat in
     person as sheriffess. Yet Riston doubted of facts to
     substantiate Mr. Warton's assertion. See his Obs. p. 10., and
     reply in the Gent. Mag. 1782, p. 573.--PARK."]

T. C. S.

I can answer part of W. M.'s Query, by a reference to a personage who could not have been very
far from being the first instance of the kind (Query, was she?).

     "About this time (1202) Gerard de Camville, his old and
     faithful adherent, was restored by John to the possession of
     the honours of which he had been deprived by King Richard; and
     it is a remarkable circumstance that, on the death of the said
     Gerard, in the eighteenth year of the king's reign, his widow,
     Nichola Camville (who is described by an ancient historian as
     being 'a martial woman of great courage and address') had the
     sheriffalty of the county of Lincoln committed to her; which
     honourable and important trust was continued to her by a grant
     of Henry III.," &c.

The above quotation is taken from Bailey's Annals of Nottinghamshire, now publishing in Numbers
(Part III. p. 107.). Should I be wrong in asking correspondents to contribute towards a list
of ladies holding the above honorable post?

FURVUS.

St. James's.

Burial of an unclaimed Corpse (Vol. vii., p. 262.).--E. G. R.'s question is easily answered.
The parish of Keswick proved that some years before they had buried a body found on a piece
of land. This was evidence of reputation that at the time of the burial the land was in Keswick,
otherwise the parishioners would not have taken on themselves this work of uncalled-for benevolence.
The fact of their having incurred an expense, which, unless the land was in their parish, would
have been the burden of Markshall, satisfied the commissioner that the land must have belonged
to Keswick. I have no doubt this was the reason, though I never heard of the question in connexion
with Keswick and Markshall. Battersea Rise, I heard when a boy, had formerly belonged to Clapham,
and been given to Battersea for the same reason as E. G. R. states to have been the cause of
Markshall losing its territory to Keswick.

J. H. L.

Surname of Allan (Vol. vii., p. 205.).--I think A. S. A. will find that this name was introduced
into Britain from Normandy. It occurs in early Norman times as a personal name, and afterwards
as a patronymic. Thus Alan, the son of Flathald, who had the castle of Oswestry granted him
by the Conqueror, had a son, William Fitz-Alan, ancestor of the great baronial house of Arundel.
In the Hundred Rolls, temp. Edward I., it is very common under the orthographies of fil. Alan,
{341} fil. Alain, Alayn, Aleyn, Aleyne, Aleynes, Aleynys, &c. Allen has always remained a baptismal
name, and hence it is probable that there is no more affinity between the numerous families
now bearing it as a surname, than between the various Thompsons, Williamses, and others of
this class. The MacAllans of Scotland may have a separate Celtic source, though it is far likelier
that this name (like MacEdward, MacGeorge, and numerous others) is the English appellative
with the patronymic Mac prefixed.

MARK ANTONY LOWER.

Lewes.

The Patronymic Mac (Vol. vii., p. 202.).--The present Earl of Stair has collected and printed,
under the title of Almacks Extraordinary, a list of seven hundred Scotch and Irish surnames
with the prefix "Mac;" and a highly esteemed correspondent promises me a supplementary list
of "a few hundreds" of such appellatives, which must therefore be in the aggregate upwards
of a thousand in number. I hope to include all these in my forthcoming Dictionary of British
Surnames.

MARK ANTONY LOWER.

Lewes.

Cibber's "Lives of the Poets" (Vol. v., p. 25.).--When MR. CROSSLEY inserted in your pages,
at great length, the original prospectus of Cibber's Lives, he was not aware that it had been
reprinted before. Such, however, is the case, as may be seen by turning to the sixth volume
of Sir Egerton Brydges' Censura Literaria, ed. 1808, p. 352. It was communicated to the columns
of that work by that diligent antiquary in literary matters, Joseph Haslewood. MR. CROSSLEY
says, "It is rather extraordinary that none of Dr. Johnson's biographers appear to have been
aware that the prospectus of Cibber's Lives was furnished by Johnson." Where is there the slightest
proof that Johnson wrote one line of it? Haslewood believed it to have been the production
of Messrs. Cibber and Shiels. Does MR. CROSSLEY ground his claim for Johnson merely upon a
fancied resemblance in style?

EDWARD F. RIMBAULT.

Parallel Passages, No. 2.--Stars and Flowers (Vol. vii., p.
151.).--Other parallels on this subject are given in "N. & Q."
            Longfellow's Evangeline, Part I. iii. p. 187. of
            the Liverpool edition.

ZEUS.

Schomberg's Epitaph (Vol. vii., p. 13.).--I find this entry in my note-book:--The following
inscription is written on a black slab of marble, affixed to the wall of the choir of St. Patrick's
Cathedral. The remains of the duke were removed to this cathedral immediately after the battle
of the Boyne; and on the 10th July, 1690, they were deposited under the altar. The relatives
of this great man having neglected to raise any monument to his memory, Dean Swift undertook
and caused the above slab to be erected, having first vainly applied to the connexions of the
deceased. His sword is in the possession of the society of the "Friendly Brothers," Dublin.

The following is the inscription on the slab:

     "Hic infra situm est corpus Frederici Ducis de Schonberg ad
     Bubindam occisi A.D. 1690. Decanus et Capitulum
     maximopere etiam atque etiam petierunt, ut hæredes Ducis,
     monumentum in memoriam parentis erigendum curarent. Sed
     postquam per epistolas, per amicos, diu ac sæpe orando nil
     profecere, hunc demum lapidem statuerunt; saltem ut scias
     hospes ubinam terrarum Schonbergenses cineres delitescunt.

     "Plus potuit fama virtutis apud alienos quam sanguinis
     proximitas apud suos, A.D. 1731."

CLERICUS (D.)

Dublin.

Pilgrimages to the Holy Land (Vol. v., p. 289.).--There is still another book to be added to
the curious list of old pilgrimages to the Holy Land, furnished by your correspondent PEREGRINE
A. I derive my knowledge of it from Brunet's Manuel, sub voce CAPODILISTA (GABRIELE), where
it is described as follows:

     "Itinerario di Terra Santa, e del Monte Sinai." (Without date
     or printer) 4to.

It is a journal of a pilgrimage to the Holy Land, made in the year 1458 by a Padua nobleman,
accompanied by a relative, Antonio Capodilista, a canon of the same place, and several other
noble personages. It is one of the earliest productions of the press at Perugia, and the date
assigned to it by M. Brunet is 1472, but by Vermiglioli 1473 or 1474. The latter authority,
in his Principi della Stampa in Perugia, calls it "Veramente un prezioso cimelio di tipografia
e bibliografia." I am anxious to know where a copy of this very rare work is deposited, as
I have been told that there is none at the British Museum.

W. M. R. E.

Album (Vol. vii., p. 235.).--The origin and the earliest notice of this kind of friendly memorial
book is to be traced to the registers of the deceased that were formerly kept in every church
and monastery. Such a book was called the album, i. e. the blank book, in which the names of
the friends and benefactors to the church or monastery were recorded, that they might be prayed
for at their decease, and on their anniversaries. The earliest writer belonging to this country
who uses the word is the Venerable Beda, who in his {342} preface to his prose life of St.
Cuthbert, written previous to the year 721, reminds Bishop Eadfrith that his name was registered
in the album at Lindisfarne, "in albo vestræ sanctæ congregationis." (Bedæ Opera Minora, p.
47., ed. Stevenson.) Elsewhere Beda calls this book "the annal" (Hist. Eccles., lib. iv. c.
14.). At a later period it was called, both in England and abroad, the Liber Vitæ, or Book
of Life, a name borrowed from St. Paul (Philippians, iv. 3.).

The earliest specimen of an English album, and perhaps the most elegant one that this or any
other country ever produced, may be seen in the British Museum (Cotton MSS., Domitian VII.).
It is the Album, or Book of Life, of the monastery of Durham. Nor need we add that this album
affords a relief to the eye wearied with looking over the pages of a modern album, and to the
mind sick of the endless but monotonous repetition of imaginary ruins, love sonnets, and moss
roses.

CEYREP.

Gesmas and Desmas (Vol. vii., p. 238.).--For the information of your correspondent A. B. R.,
I copy the passage referred to by you in the disputed Gospel of Nicodemus, formerly called
the Acts of Pontius Pilate. 10.

It thus appears the names have been differently received: here they appear GESTAS the impenitent,
and DIMAS the penitent.

I have a fine old engraving, nineteen inches by fourteen, bearing date "Greg. Huret, Lugd.
inv. et sculp. 1664;" published in Paris, cum priv. Regis.

The three crosses, with their inscriptions (each in Hebrew, Greek, and Latin), appear.

The Latin on the cross of the thief on the right hand of our Lord (and, from the expression
of countenance, confessed the penitent) is DISMAS LATRO: the other is GESTAS LATRO.

W. C. H.

Chelsea.

"Quod fuit esse" (Vol. vii., p. 235.).--Allow me to suggest the following meaning of the epitaph
in Lavenham churchyard, which is the subject of A. B. R.'s Query.

And the literal meaning, will be: "What was existence, is that which lies here; that which
was not existence, is that which is existence; to be what is now, is not to be; that which
is now, is not existence, but will be hereafter."

This, perhaps, is as enigmatical as the original: but the following lines will render the meaning
plainer, though it is difficult to preserve the brevity of the Latin in an English version:

    All that I really was lies here in dust;
    That which was death before is life, I trust.
    To be what is, is not, I ween, to be;
    Is not, but will be in eternity.

H. C. K.

---- Rectory, Hereford.

I think your correspondent A. B. R. is not quite correct in his version of the epitaph of which
he inquires the sense.

I inclose a similar epitaph in another churchyard (the locale of which I do not know), which
may serve to elucidate its meaning:

    "That which a Being was, what is it? show:
     That being which it was, it is not now.
     To be what 'tis is not to be, you see;
     That which now is not shall a Being be."

Q. S.

Straw Bail (Vol. vii., p. 85.).--In connexion with, though not as a reply to, MR. CURTIS'S
Query touching the origin of the expression "A man of straw," I beg to bring under notice a
phrase I heard for the first time a few days ago, but which may nevertheless be well known
to others. A seaman, talking to me of a strike for wages among the crew of a ship, said that
the captain, as the rate of wages had not been raised, had manned his ship with a "lot of straw-yarders."
On my asking the meaning of the expression, I was told that a "straw-yarder" was a man about
the docks who had never been to sea, and knew little or nothing of the duties of a seaman.

BRUTONIENSIS.

Pearl (Vol. vi., p. 578.; Vol. vii., pp. 18. 166.).--In the Old German, merikrioz is pearl;
and in the Ang.-Sax. it is meregreot,--the latter from mere, sea, and greot, grit, sand, or
grot, an {343} atom. These are so similar to the Greek margaritas, and the margarita of the
sister language (Latin), that we may be excused believing they have a common origin; more especially
as we find the first syllable (at least?) in almost all the cognate Indo-Germanic or Indo-European
languages: Latin, mare; Celt., mor; Gothic, marei; Sax., mære or mere; Old Germ., meri; Slavon.,
more and morze; Swed., mar; Iceland, mar; Esthon., merri; Lett., marrios.

Among modern languages, we have,--Span., margarita; Ital., margarita and maugherita; Fr., marguerite,
but used only in the proverb, "Il ne faut pas jeter les marguerites devant les pourceaux."
Johnson, Webster, and Halliwell give margarite as an English word. Probably all derived from
the Latin.

At the same time, although not occurring (as far as I am aware) in either Greek or Latin, the
word pearl is found in some shape in most of the same Indo-Germanic languages: thus, Ital.
and Span., perla; Low. Lat., perla; French, perle; Eng., pearl; Dan., paarl; Swed., perla or
p[)a]rla; Bohem., perle; Ang.-Sax., pearl and pærl; Low. Sax., berel. Webster says the word
pearl may be radically the same as beryl. In the Celtic we find, Irish, pearla, and Welsh perlyn.

The Germans derive pearl from beer, a berry, making thus berle or beerlein; as in Latin bacca
also means a pearl.

Some of your correspondents can, no doubt, inform us whether any analogous words to pearl and
margarita exist in the Sanscrit?

A. C. M.

Exeter.

Sermons by Parliamentary Chaplains (Vol. vii., p. 34.).--On the day of Thanksgiving, 19th July,
1648, Mr. Obadiah Sedgwick was ordered to preach before the House, and his sermon to be printed.
Where can a copy of it be seen?

JOSEPH RIX.

St. Neot's.

Etymological Traces of the Social Position of our Ancestors (Vol. vii., pp. 13, 14.).--Your
correspondent may find the passage to which he wishes to refer again, in one of the back volumes
of Dickens's Household Words, in an article with the title of "History in Words."

Another correspondent, in the succeeding page of the same Number, will obtain the information
he requires by consulting Dunlop's History of Fiction.

W. L. N.

Tuebeuf (Vol. vii., p. 207.).--J. E. J. will find Tuboeuf is a town in France, in the department
of Mayenne. On May 9, 1194, Richard I. sailed from England on his expedition against Philip
II. of France; and he was accompanied by Master Eustace, Dean of Salisbury, for the purpose
of his conducting such business of the Great Seal as might be necessary while the king remained
abroad. The Doncaster Charter appears to have been sealed on the 22nd of the same month of
May, and I shall feel obliged if J. E. J. will give me a copy of Eustace's title, and the date
and place, as they appear on the document. The addition to his name in other charters is "tunc
gerentis vices cancellarii." He himself became Chancellor and Bishop of Ely on the death of
Longchamp.

EDWARD FOSS.

Street-End House, near Canterbury.

"Goe, soule, the bodies guest" (Vol. vii., p. 175.).--Your correspondent is mistaken in thinking
that his "additions" are a new discovery. Both stanzas were printed, with slight variations
from this copy, by Sir H. Nicolas, at the end of his edition of Davison's Poetical Rhapsody,
1826, pp. 413--415.; and both are mentioned by Mr. Hannah, when he says (p. 103.):

     "In E (the mark by which Mr. H. designates that copy in
     Nicolas), one stanza is interpolated after line 36, and a
     second at the end."

As I entirely agree with Sir H. Nicolas that the lines in question are "a wanton interpolation,"
I think Mr. Hannah was perfectly justified in contenting himself with this acknowledgment of
their existence.

R.

Bells versus Storms (Vol. vi., p. 508.).--While returning my acknowledgments to your correspondents
the REV. H. T. ELLACOMBE and W. S. G., I would briefly refer to the subject again, which may
be of interest to some of our readers.

Dr. Fuller says:

     "That bells are no effectual charm against lightning. The
     frequent firing of abbey churches by lightning confuteth the
     proud motto commonly written on the bells in their steeples,
     wherein each intitled itself to a six-fold efficacy.

        'Men's death I tell, by doleful knell,
         Lightning and thunder, I break asunder,
         On Sabbath all, to church I call,
         The sleepy head, I raise from bed,
         The winds so fierce, I do disperse,
         Men's cruel rage, I do assuage.'"

     "It has anciently been reported," observes Lord Bacon, "and is
     still received, that extreme applauses and shouting of people
     assembled in multitudes, have so rarefied and broken the air,
     that birds flying over have fallen down, the air not being
     able to support them; and it is believed by some that great
     ringing of bells in populous cities hath chased away thunder,
     and also dissipated pestilent air. All which may be also from
     the concussion of the air, and not from the sound."

W. W.

Malta.

The following note in connexion with the baptism of bells may be interesting, as it shows the
manner of working, at that time.

{344} Among the Centum Gravamina offered to Pope Adrian in 1521 by the Princes of Germany,
as given in Herbert's Henry VIII., p. 139., this is the 51st:

     "That suffragans used to baptize bels under pretence of
     driving away divels and tempests; and for this purpose did
     invite many rich godfathers, who were to touch the rope while
     the bell was exorcised, and its name invoked (unto which all
     the people must answer). And that a banquet was used to be
     made thereupon, at the cost of the layicks, amounting in
     little towns to a hundred florins, whither the godfathers were
     to come, and bring great gifts, &c., whereas they desired that
     the said bels might be baptized not onely by suffragans, but
     by any priest, with holy water, salt, herbs, without such
     costs."

H. T. ELLACOMBE.

Clyst St. George.

Will MR. GOLE oblige me and your readers with a reference to the Golden Legend, from which
he has sent a quotation bearing on bells and storms.

H. T. ELLACOMBE.

Clyst St. George.

Exercise Day (Vol. vii., p. 205.).--The extract from the borough chamberlain's accounts, referred
to by your correspondent LEICESTRIENSIS, relates rather to a religious assembly or meeting
established by authority in the reign of Elizabeth, and designed as a check on the growing
tendency towards Puritanism, which marked that period. In this diocese (at that time the diocese
of Chester) Bishop Downham instituted a "monthly exercise," which was confirmed by his successor
Dr. Chadderton, in an injunction bearing date Sept. 1, 1585. (See Appendix to Strype's Annals,
vol. i.) It is there decreed that all parsons, vicars, curates, and schoolmasters shall resort
to this exercise, there either to speak or write; and certain penalties are enforced on any
neglect of its observance. In the churchwardens' accounts of this parish is an entry of similar
import to that quoted by LEICESTRIENSIS: "1656, Pd. for minister diner at the exercise day,
00.00.06," the only perceptible difference being in the degree of hospitality extended to the
clergy by their entertainers.

JOHN BOOKER.

Prestwich.

The Iron Mask (Vol. v., p. 474.; Vol. vii., p. 234.).--Your correspondent A. S. A. asks with
much complacency, "What authority MR. JAMES CORNISH has for asserting (Vol. v., p. 474.) that
the mysterious secret of the Masque de fer has ever been satisfactorily explained?" MR. JAMES
CORNISH does not make statements of historical facts without authority: he therefore begs to
refer A. S. A. to Delort, Histoire de l'Homme au Masque de fer, Paris, 1825; and to The True
History of the State Prisoner, commonly called "The Iron Mask," &c., by the Hon. George Agar
Ellis: London, 1826.

I repeat "my sanguine" expectations that "Junius" will yet be "unearthed." "Matthias" made
an equal boast with the "mighty shade," that he would be for ever unknown.

Your Journal "N. & Q." has left no doubt about the author of The Pursuits of Literature.

JAMES CORNISH.

Shakspeare's Use of the Word "Delighted" (Vol. ii., pp. 113. 139. 200. &c.).--The following
passage from Douce's Illustrations has not been referred to by any of your contributors on
this point; to some it may be unknown:

     "With respect to the much contested and obscure expression of
     bathing the delighted spirit in fiery floods, Milton appears
     to have felt less difficulty in its consideration than we do
     at present; for he certainly remembered it when he made Comus
     say:

                          "' ... one sip of this
        Will bathe the drooping spirits in delight
        Beyond the bliss of dreams.'"

W. T. M.

Hong Kong.

Samuel Daniel (Vol. vi., p. 603.).--A copy of an original letter of Samuel Daniel, sent to
Lord Keeper Egerton with a present of his Works newly augmented, 1601, is printed in Censura
Literaria, ed. 1808, vol. vi. p. 391.

John Daniel, who published Songs for the Lute, Viol, and Voice, 1606, is supposed to have been
the brother of the poet, and the publisher of his works in 1623. He was of Christ Church, Oxford;
and took his degree of Bachelor of Music in 1604. At the commencement of the reign of Charles
I., he was one of the court musicians, and his name occurs among the "Musicians for the Lutes
and Voices," in a privy seal, dated Dec. 20, 1625, exempting the musicians belonging to the
court from the payment of subsidies.

John Daniel's Songs were "printed by T. E. for Thomas Adams, at the Signe of the White Lyon,
Paule's Church Yard, folio, 1606." They are dedicated, in rhyme, to "Mrs. Anne Greene, the
worthy Daughter to Sir William Greene, of Milton, Knight."

EDWARD F. RIMBAULT.

English Bishops deprived by Queen Elizabeth, 1559 (Vol. vi., pp. 100. 203.; Vol. vii., p. 260.).--I
regret that I am unable to furnish A. S. A. with any additional information respecting the
Marian bishops. None of the authorities I used give the dates he requires. Possibly, Mr. Charles
Butler's Historical Memoires of the English, Irish, and Scottish Catholics, 4 vols. 8vo., 1822,
might answer his Queries.

I have ascertained from Calamy's Life and Times (vol. i. p. 409.), that Thomas White, the {345}
deprived Bishop of Peterborough, died in London, May 30, 1698; and that Robert Frampton, the
deprived Bishop of Gloucester, died May 25, 1708 (vol. ii. p. 119.).

JOHN I. DREDGE.

"Jenny's Bawbee" (Vol. vii., p. 207.).--This is a very old song, a fragment of which (all we
have) appeared in David Herd's Collection of Ancient and Modern Scottish Songs, 2 vols. 12mo.,
Edinb. 1776. As it is very short, I quote it:

    "An' a' that e'er my Jenny had,
     My Jenny had, my Jenny had,
     A' that e'er my Jenny had,
             Was ae bawbee.

    "There's your plack, and my plack,
     An' your plack, an' my plack,
     An' my plack, an' your plack,
            An' Jenny's bawbee.

    "We'll put it a' in the pint-stoup,
     The pint-stoup, the pint-stoup,
     We'll put it in the pint-stoup,
             And birle't a' three."

There is a capital song founded upon this rude fragment, by the late Sir Alexander Boswell.
It was published anonymously in 1803, and commences thus:

    "I met four chaps yon birks amang,
     Wi hinging lugs and faces lang;
     I spier'd at neebour Bauldy Strang,
                 Wha's they I see?

    "Quo' he, Ilk cream-fac'd pawky chiel
     Thought he was cunning as the diel,
     And here they cam' awa to steal
               Jenny's bawbee."

Copies of this latter song may be seen in Johnson's Scottish Musical Museum, edit. 1839, vol.
v. p. 435.; and in Graham's Songs of Scotland, 1848, vol. ii. p. 48.

EDWARD F. RIMBAULT.

The old Scotch ballad with the above title, on which Sir Alexander Boswell, Bart., founded
his humorous song, with the same name, may be found in The Book of Scottish Songs, recently
published in The Illustrated London Library, p. 229.

J. K. R. W.

Irish Convocation (Vol. vi., p. 317.).--I am unable to answer W. FRASER'S Queries as to when
the Irish Convocation last met, and where their deliberations are recorded; but that gentleman
will find some account of its nature and constitution in a recently published pamphlet, entitled
The Jerusalem Chamber, by the Rev. H. Caswall, M.A., pp. 39, 40.

J. C. B.

Spontaneous Combustion (Vol. vii., p. 286.).--Is there such a thing; meaning, I presume, of
the human body? One of the latest and best authenticated cases is given in The Abstainer's
Journal (Glasgow), No. III., March, 1853, p. 54. In the narrative is included the official
medical report from the Journal of Medical Science, Dec. 1852.

W. C. TREVELYAN.

Do the Sun's Rays put out the Fire? (Vol. vii., p. 285.).--

     "Why does the sun, shining, on a fire, make it dull, and often
     put it out?

     "1st. Because the air (being rarefied by the sunshine) flows
     more slowly to the fire; and

     "2ndly. The chemical action of the sun's rays is detrimental
     to combustion.

     "The sun's rays are composed of three parts; lighting,
     heating, and actinic or chemical rays. These latter interfere
     with the process of combustion."

The above is an extract from Rev. Dr. Brewer's Guide to the Scientific Knowledge of Things
Familiar, 6th edition, p. 50., which may perhaps prove interesting to C. W. B. At p. 58. of
the same book, H. A. B. will find, I think, an answer in the affirmative to his Query (Vol.
vii., p. 286.): "Is there such a thing as spontaneous combustion?"

C---- S. T. P.

W---- Rectory.

Dover Castle (Vol. vii., p. 254.).--The "j cenovectorum cum j rota ferro ligata" was a wheel-barrow.
In the Promptorum Parvulorum occurs (p. 25.) "barowe cenovectorum."

E. G. R.

Quotations wanted (Vol. vii., p. 40.).--"And if he read little, he had need have much cunning
to seem to know that he doth not." From Lord Bacon.--Bacon's Essays: Of Studies, p. 218. 12mo.,
1819.

[Greek: Omega].

       *       *       *       *       *

MISCELLANEOUS.

NOTES ON BOOKS, ETC.

If any of the readers of Mr. Hudson Turner's volume on Domestic Architecture have been under
the apprehension that the death of that able antiquary would necessarily lead, if not to the
abandonment of that work, to its being completed in a more imperfect manner than Mr. Turner
would have completed it, we can assure them that such apprehension is entirely groundless.
We have now before us the second part, entitled Some Account of Domestic Architecture in England
from Edward I. to Richard II., with Notices of Foreign Examples, and numerous Illustrations
of existing Remains from original Drawings. By the Editor of the Glossary of Architecture.
The editing of the work is indeed most creditable to Mr. Parker, who, though he modestly confesses
that if he had not known that he could safely calculate upon much valuable assistance from
others more competent than himself, he would never have ventured to undertake it at all, had
already given proof of his fitness for the task by the Glossary of Architecture with which
his name has been so long and so honourably connected. The work, which supplies a deficiency
which the architectural student has {346} long felt, is produced in the same handsome style,
and with the same profuseness of illustration, as its predecessor, and will be found valuable
not only to archæologists who study history in brick and stone, but also to those who search
in the memorials of bygone ages for illustrations of manners and customs, and of that greater
subject than all, the history of our social progress. 1720--1740. This second volume of the
new and cheaper edition of Lord Mahon's work extends from the accession of Walpole and Townshend
to office in 1720, to the Declaration of War against Spain in 1739, and contains a valuable
appendix of original papers.--The Annals of Roger de Hoveden, from A.D. 732 to A.D. 1201, translated
from the Latin, with Notes and Illustrations, by Henry T. Riley. Vol. I. A.D. 732 to A.D. 1180,
is a new volume of the valuable series of Translations of Early English Chronicles, which is
to give so important a character to Bohn's Antiquarian Library.--Thomas à Becket and other
Poems, by Patrick Scott. Notices of new poems scarcely fall within our vocation, but Mr. Scott
is a true poet, and we cannot refuse to praise the present volume, and more especially the
little poem which owes its origin to the notice of the opening of the coffin of Lady Audrey
Leigh in our 156th Number.--The Family Shakspeare, &c., by Thomas Bowdler, Vol. V. This fifth
volume contains Troilus and Cressida, Coriolanus, Julius Cæsar, Antony and Cleopatra, and Cymbeline.

       *       *       *       *       *

BOOKS AND ODD VOLUMES.

WANTED TO PURCHASE. 1799. First Edition, in 4to.

GMELIN'S HANDBOOK OF CHEMISTRY. Inorganic Part.

THE HISTORY OF SHENSTONE, by the REV. H. SAUNDERS. 4to. London, 1794.

LUBBOCK'S ELEMENTARY TREATISE ON THE TIDES.

We hope next week, in addition to many other interesting articles, to lay before our readers
a copy of a remarkable and inedited Proclamation of Henry VIII. on the subject of the Translation
of the Scriptures; and some specimens of the Rigby Correspondence.

HERCULES. The custom (which we hope does not very generally obtain) of sending green ribbons,
called willows, tied round bridal cards, to rejected suitors of the bride, is no doubt derived
from that alluded to by Shakspeare and Herrick, and especially Fuller, who tell us the willow
"is a sad tree, whereof such as have lost their love make their mourning garments."

ROBIN HOOD. A Subscriber would be obliged by H. K. (Vol. vi., p. 597.) giving a precise reference
to the Act of the Scotch Parliament prohibiting "the plays and personages of Robin Hood." &c.

C. MANSFIELD INGLEBY will find the proverb "When Our Lord falls in Our Lady's lap," &c., in
our Number for the 12th Feb., p. 157.

VIATOR. The imprecatory Epitaph referred to has already appeared in our columns.

W. A. C. is thanked. The rhymes have, however, been already frequently printed by Brockett,
Brand, &c.

B. L. (Manchester). The ordinary use of arms by the English nobility is supposed to date from
about the year 1146. The arms on the shield of Geoffrey de Mandeville in the Temple Church
have been considered among the earliest examples of heraldic bearings in England. He died in 1144.

HY. CE. Our Correspondent is probably correct. The lines are not in the reprint of the Musarum
Deliciæ: so we amend our reply to DAVID BROWN in No. 177., by stating that the lines

    "That same man, that runneth awaie,
     May again fight, an other daie"--

are from Udall's translation of the Apothegms of Erasmus.

Does a Corpse passing make a Right of Way? A. S. will find an elaborate answer to this Query
in our 3rd Vol., p. 519. He is also referred to pp. 477. and 507. of the same volume, and pp.
124. 240., Vol. iv.

A. B. Mosaic is so named from the tesselated pavements of the Romans, which being worked in
a regular and mechanical manner, were called Opus musivum, opera quæ ad amussim facta sunt.
Hence the Italian musaico, the French mosaique, and our English mosaic. See "N. & Q.," Vol.
iii., pp. 389. 469. 521.

C. GONVILLE. How can we forward a letter to this Correspondent?

M. C. The answer to Mr. Canning's famous riddle is "Cares--Caress."

BROOKTHORPE. The epitaph,

    "If Heaven is pleased," &c.,

is sometimes said to have been written on Burnet, and at others on Coleman the Jesuit. See
our 5th Vol., pp. 58. 137., &c.

PHOTOGRAPHIC NOTES AND QUERIES. Several articles are necessarily postponed until next week,
when we will also give Replies to several Correspondents. We hope by that time to be able to
report upon the new Camera.

THE REV. J. L. SISSON is thanked for the very beautiful specimen of his skill which he has
forwarded to us. We hope to write to him in the course of a day or two.

Errata.--P. 284. col. 1. lines 27. 28. for "built a new house on a pinnacle, on which," read
"built a new house, on a pinnacle of which." Line 31., dele full-stop after "yreret," and insert
colon. P. 288. col. 2. l. 28. for "trull" read "hull," i. e. "hurl."

       *       *       *       *       *

ISLINGTON, HIGHBURY, ETC.

ALFRED ALLCHIN begs to inform Photographers, that he can supply them with pure Chemicals for
Photographic purposes.

32. COLES TERRACE, RICHMOND ROAD, BARNSBURY PARK. Oxford Street, is now generally used by Photographers,
and cannot be surpassed in the beautiful results it produces. Specimens may be seen on application.
MESSRS. DELATOUCHE & CO. supply Apparatus with the most recent Improvements, Pure Chemicals,
English and Foreign Papers, and every Article connected with Photography on Paper or Glass.
Instruction given in the Art.

See HENNAH'S new work on the Collodion Process, giving the most practical directions yet published,
price 1s., or free by post 1s. 6d.

       *       *       *       *       *

J. T. GODDARD, Astronomical Telescope Maker, 2. Jesse Cottage, Whitton, near Isleworth, Middlesex:
of whom Photographical View and Portrait Combinations may be obtained as follows:

                                                         £ s. d.
    The lenses, 2-1/4 diameter, for portraits and views  2 17  6
    Ditto, for views only                                1 17  6
    Ditto, 3-1/4 diameter, for portraits and views       6  0  0
    Ditto, 3-1/4 diameter, for views only                3 17  6

The above are mounted with rack and pinnion, and two stops; where rack and pinnion is not required,
deduct 8s. 6d. to 10s.

Achromatic Lenses of long focus to order.

       *       *       *       *       *

ELGIN MARBLES.--Arundel Society, established 1849, for promoting the Knowledge of Art. Casts
from MR. CHEVERTON'S reductions of the Theseus and Ilissus in the Elgin Collection, may be
had by application at MESSRS. COLNAGHI'S, 14. Pall Mall East, price 1l. 1s. (to Members 12s.
6d.) each.

Electro-Bronze Copies of the Theseus may be had at MESSRS. ELKINGTON'S, 22. Regent Street,
price 10l. 10s. (to Members 9l. 9s.)

MR. CHEVERTON obtained a Prize Medal for the Theseus at the Great Exhibition, 1851.

Annual Subscription to the Society 1l. 1s., entitling Members to all Engravings and Books published.
Payable at Coutts' Bank, or 14. Pall Mall East.

G. AUBREY BEZZI, Hon. Sec.

       *       *       *       *       * {348}

MURRAY'S RAILWAY READING.

Immediately, fcap. 8vo.

WELLINGTON--HIS CHARACTER,--HIS ACTIONS,--AND HIS WRITINGS. By JULES MAUREL.

     "I am much mistaken in my estimate of M. Maurel's work, if it
     do not take rank now and hereafter among the most accurate,
     discriminating, and felicitous tributes which have emanated
     from any country in any language to the memory of the Duke of
     Wellington."--Lord Ellesmere's Preface.

To be followed by

LOCKHART'S ANCIENT SPANISH BALLADS.

LIFE OF LORD BACON. By LORD CAMPBELL.

HALLAM'S LITERARY ESSAYS AND CHARACTERS.

LIFE of THEODORE HOOK.

THE EMIGRANT. By SIR F. B. HEAD.

LORD ELLESMERE'S DISCOURSE ON WELLINGTON.

JOHN MURRAY, Albemarle Street;

And to be obtained at all Booksellers, and Railway Stations.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE QUARTERLY REVIEW, No. CLXXXIV., is just published.

    CONTENTS:

    APSLEY HOUSE.
    SCROPE'S HISTORY OF CASTLE COMBE.
    HUMAN HAIR.
    THE OLD COUNTESS OF DESMOND.
    HUNGARIAN CAMPAIGNS--KOSSUTH AND GÖRGEY.
    BUCKINGHAM PAPERS.
    SEARCH FOR FRANKLIN.
    THE TWO SYSTEMS AT PENTONVILLE.
    MAUREL ON THE DUKE OF WELLINGTON.

JOHN MURRAY, Albemarle Street.

       *       *       *       *       *

BOHN'S STANDARD LIBRARY FOR APRIL.

MISS BREMER'S WORKS, by MARY HOWITT. Vol. III. THE HOME, and STRIFE AND PEACE. Post 8vo.

ARISTOTLE'S POLITICS and ECONOMICS, translated by E. WALFORD, M.A., with Notes, Analyses, Life,
Introduction, and Index. Post 8vo.

BECHSTEIN'S CAGE AND CHAMBER BIRDS, including SWEET'S "WARBLERS." New Edition, greatly enlarged,
numerous plates. Post 8vo. 5s.; (or, coloured, 7s.

HENRY OF HUNTINGDON'S HISTORY OF ENGLAND, from the Roman Invasion to Henry II.; with THE ACTS
OF KING STEPHEN, &c. Translated and edited by T. FORESTER, Esq., M.A. Post 8vo.

       *       *       *       *       *

Third Edition, cloth, 1s.; by post, 1s. 6d.

WELSH SKETCHES. FIRST SERIES. By the Author of "Proposals for Christian Union."

     "It is rarely that a shilling will purchase so much
     information of a high and interesting kind."--Leeds
     Intelligencer.

     "It is written in a plain attractive style, which, in
     conjunction with the impartial feeling and the great research
     it evinces, is sure to make it a favourite."--Archæologia
     Cambrensis. "Faust" is thus
brought within the reach of the merest beginner. In the Exegetical
Notes, the Editor has endeavoured to render Goethe's own meaning
strictly: and where his interpretation differs from those of his
predecessors, Goethe himself is adduced as authority, the supporting
passages from his other works being given in German. Copious extracts
from other German authors are also given in the original.

London: LONGMAN, BROWN, GREEN, & LONGMANS.

       *       *       *       *       *

Just published, royal 12mo., 7s. 6d.,

ELEMENTS OF PSYCHOLOGY. Piccadilly.

       *       *       *       *       *

Just published, one vol. 8vo., 7s. 6d.,

RESEARCHES INTO THE HISTORY OF THE ROMAN CONSTITUTION; with an Appendix upon the Roman Knights.
By W. IHNE, Ph. D.

WILLIAM PICKERING, 177. Piccadilly.

       *       *       *       *       *

On April 1st, Part IV., price 1s., with a beautiful engraving,

