The First Act, which showed the child's life at home, had fallen altogether flat; but the Third,
in which she wakes in her pretty bedroom, restored from the jaws of death to her repentant
parents, put us on better terms with ourselves, for we were not really hard to please. The
sweetness of it was perhaps a little cloying, but it was all quite nice and sympathetic. Still,
I am afraid I agreed more than I was meant to with the speech of pretty little Miss STEPHANIE
BELL, when she told us before the curtain that they would cable to the author in America to
say how glad we were that it was all over.

Mr. ERNEST HENDRIE, who was translated from an organ-grinder to a maker of faces, played very
soundly, but seemed to me a little too deliberate and conscious in his speech. I found a more
moving appeal in the slight pathetic sketch of an old faithful butler by Mr. GEORGE MALLETT.
Mr. FEWLASS LLEWELLYN might easily, with a little assistance from the author, have extracted
a lot more fun from his Plumber. Mr. MALCOLM CHERRY had a simple and popular part as the good
Doctor. Miss HELEN HAYE'S cleverness was wasted on the character of a sinuous governess. Miss
EVELYN WEEDEN did all that was asked of the mother in both worlds--the world of fancy and the
world of fact. But, to speak truth, there was little attraction in the performance apart from
the personality of Miss STEPHANIE BELL in the title rôle. If the play is to succeed--and its
hope lies in the good temper and high spirits of holiday time--the author will owe most to
the natural charm of this delightful young lady, who played throughout with a most engaging
sincerity and ease.

O.S.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

    "After fifty years of good conduct in the Ancona Penitentiary,
    the life sentence of Giacomo Casale has been remitted by King
    Victor Emmanuel. Casale's astonishment at the altered world in
    which he found himself on coming out of prison was unbounded.
    He immediately"--Daily Express.

Unfortunately our contemporary stops there, and leaves us all in an agony of doubt. Our own
view is that CASALE bought the Mimosa Edition of a certain rival journal, and that the Editor
of The Express only just censored the paragraph in time.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The wireless station at Kamina, in Togo, German West Africa,
    has received a number of wireless telegrams from the station
    at Naten, a distance of 3,348 miles. The Kamina station will
    not be able to reply until its new plant, which is being set
    up with the utmost speed, has been completed."--Reuter.

Indeed, the opinion is held by some that it would be quicker to reply by post.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The prison buildings themselves are separated from this
    wall by a yard measuring twenty-five years across."--Daily
    Dispatch.

Of course a yard ought to measure thirty-six inches.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

(By Mr. Punch's Staff of Learned Clerks.)

If for nothing else, Mr. JACK LONDON'S latest story would deserve a welcome for its topicality.
In these days of strikes and industrial conflict every one might be glad to know what a writer
of his individuality has to say about unions and blacklegs and picketing. True, this is hardly
the kind of thing that one has learnt to associate with his name; and for that reason perhaps
I best liked The Valley of the Moon (MILLS AND BOON) after its hero and heroine had shaken
the unsavoury dust of the town from their feet and set them towards the open country. But much
had to happen first. The hero was big Billy Roberts, a teamster with the heart of a child and
the strength of a prize-fighter--which was in fact his alternative profession. He married Saxon
Brown ("a scream of a name" her friend called it when introducing them to each other), and
for a time their life together was as nearly idyllic as newly-wedded housekeeping in a mean
street could permit it to be. Then came the lean years: strikes and strike-breaking, sabotage
and rioting, prison for Billy, and all but starvation for Saxon. Perhaps you know already that
peculiar gift of Mr. JACK LONDON'S that makes you not only see physical hardship but suffer
it? I believe that after these chapters the reader of them will never again be able to regard
a newspaper report of street-fighting with the same detachment as before, so vivid are they,
so haunting. In the end, however, as I say, we find a happier atmosphere. The adventures of
Billy and Saxon, tramping it in search of a home, soon make their urban terrors seem to them
and the reader a kind of nightmare. Here Mr. LONDON is at his delightful best, and his word-pictures
of country scenes are as fresh and fine as anything he has yet done. The Valley of the Moon,
in short, is really two stories--one grim, one pleasant, and both brilliantly successful.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is perhaps a mistake to read a novel at a sitting, since the reaction is too sudden and
the reader is apt to find the real life and the real people surrounding him highly unsatisfactory
by contrast. Mr. JAMES PROSPER has reduced me to this state by The Mountain Apart (HEINEMANN),
but it is my duty as critic to disregard my personal feelings and judge impartially between
the fictitious and the actual. Duty, then, compels me to say that the Mr. Henry Harding who
at the last solved all the difficulties of Rose Hilton by the simple expedient of a romantic
proposal is a hollow fraud. The position was this: Rose was a woman of flesh and blood and
all the human limitations, blessed and cursed with all the intricacies allotted by Providence
to the sex. Her trouble was that she had to face life as it is, and this she found very trying.
She suffered from her marriage to a man old enough to be her grandfather, and from her abortive
grapplings both with the abstract problems of her soul and the concrete mischiefs of her female
friends. The influence of IBSEN and a militant Suffragette didn't help her meditations, and
when her husband died she had the mortification to find that the first man of her own age who
professed love to her was no man but a series of artistic poses. Of her difficulties, real
enough up to this point, the solution was the fraudulent Henry, fraudulent because he was just
a stage hero whose actions and conversation resembled nothing on earth. Henry, in fact, is
the sort of person that doesn't exist, and, if he did, would be intolerable to everybody except
a novel reader worked up to a climax. I doubt if even such a reader could stand the fellow
on a longer acquaintance. To this conclusion all must come in their saner moments, and yet
most will, I think, finish the book in one spell and be under the delusion at the end of it
that all their troubles would be solved at once if only their friends would talk and conduct
themselves more like Henry.

       *       *       *       *       *

In Theodore Roosevelt: an Autobiography (MACMILLAN) the ex-President shows us how it was done:
how he started life as a weakly lad and by perseverance made himself what he is to-day. But
what is he? That is the insoluble problem. No two people, least of all Americans, seem to agree
on the point. I have heard Mr. ROOSEVELT called everything from a charlatan to the Saviour
of his Country. For myself, if I may intrude my own view, I have always admired the "Bull Moose."
But, since nobody on this earth, in America or out of it, can really understand American politics,
my respect has been for Mr. ROOSEVELT'S private rather than his public performances. And in
the view that he is, take him all round, a pretty good sort of man, this book has confirmed
me. He has told his story well. Nor is the Power of the Human "I" too much in evidence. It
is just a simple, straightforward tale of a particularly interesting life. Whatever your views
on Mr. ROOSEVELT may be, the fact remains that he has been a cowboy, a police commissioner
of New York, a soldier on active service, and the President of God's Country, suh; and a man
must have an unusually negative personality if he cannot make entertainment for us out of that.
Now nobody has ever suspected Mr. ROOSEVELT of a negative personality; and it is certain that
he has told a very entertaining story. There are in this volume battle, murder, sudden death,
outlaws, cowboys, bears, American politics, and the author's views on the English blackbird,
all handsomely illustrated, and the price is only what you would (or would not) pay for a stall
to see a musical comedy. It's a bargain.

       *       *       *       *       *

Between the rising of the partisans of the Duchesse DE BERRI and the dawn of the Tractarian
movement there would not seem, at first blush, to be any very close association apart from
the coincidence of their dates; yet in The Vision Splendid (MURRAY), by D.K. BROSTER and G.W.
TAYLOR, a link is furnished in the person of an English clergyman's daughter, who marries a
Frenchman of the "Legitimist" aristocracy, and is loved, before and afterwards, by an enthusiastic
disciple of the Oriel Common Room. But the link is too slight to give a proper unity to the
tale; and we have to fall back upon contrasts. Even so, the two modes of life which made up,
between them, the experience of the Comtesse de la Roche-Guyon (née Horatia Grenville) are
too cleanly severed by the estranging Channel to be brought into sharp antithesis, except in
the heart of the one woman. And, since it is difficult to understand why anyone so British
in her independence and aloofness should have surrendered her heart to the first good-looking
Frenchman who came her way, we never get to be on very intimate terms with that organ. The
construction of the story tends to break up the action and make its interest desultory. While
we are spending a hundred odd pages at one time and fifty odd at another in Paris and Brittany
we forget, very contentedly, about Oriel; and while we are in residence at Oxford we are practically
cut off--no doubt, to our spiritual gain--from the things of France. The authors seem to belong
to the solid old-fashioned school that had the patience to spread itself and leave as little
as might be to the imagination. I suspect one of them of supplying the foreign information
and the other of being the correspondent on home and clerical affairs. I don't know how many
of them--if any--are women, but I seem to trace a female hand in some of the domestic details.
But the book contains strong matter, too--both of narrative and characterization; as in the
dying of Armand de la Roche-Guyon, and the picture of his lover, Madame de Vigerie. And there
is something of the inspiration of the Holy Grail in that "Vision Splendid" which heartens
Tristram Hungerford to make sacrifice of his passion that he may give his soul unshared to
the service of the Church.

       *       *       *       *       *

Until I had read Mr. A. RADCLYFFE DUGMORE'S book and revelled in his most wonderful photographs
I had never wished to be a caribou; but now that I have fully digested The Romance of the Newfoundland
Caribou (HEINEMANN) there is only one animal whose lot in life I really envy. This is due not
to a natural sympathy with caribous (for, as the author says, "In England it is quite the exception
to find anyone who knows what the caribou is, unless he happens to have been to Newfoundland
or certain parts of Canada," and I was never one of the exceptions), but to the extraordinary
manner in which Mr. DUGMORE has imparted the affection that be himself entertains for his chosen
beast. Although he shoots with no more formidable a weapon than a camera, the dangers and risks
that he has run would appal many of the sportsmen whose aim is to destroy and not to study
the lives of animals. He has, however, no contempt for hunters, provided that they will play
the game and give a fair chance to their quarry. Another point in his favour, which appeals
mightily to me, is that after nine consecutive seasons in Newfoundland he confesses that his
knowledge of the caribou is still incomplete. This means that, when he does make an absolute
statement, you may be pretty certain that it is true. If I ever have to argue about the habits
of caribous, there is one shot that will remain in my locker until the very end of the argument,
and it will be, "Well, DUGMORE says so."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *