I must go back nearly twenty years. Indeed, I ought to explain that Charley was a little friend
of mine a long time ago; now he's a grown-up man. Well, twenty years ago I was not very old
myself, but my sister, who is some years older than I am, was already married, and her husband
was very fond of yachting. They lived during a great part of the year in the Isle of Wight,
and there I often used to go to stay with them.

The "Swallow"--that was the name of my brother-in-law's yacht--was a beautiful boat, and many
happy hours have I passed on board her as she skimmed merrily over the sparkling water. I delighted
to sit on deck, watching the fishing-boats as they rode bravely from wave to wave, or sometimes
wondering at some large ship as it passed by, on which men live for weeks and months without
ever touching land. We used to sail long distances, and occasionally be out for several days
and nights together. My brother-in-law's skipper could tell me what country almost every vessel
that we saw was bound for. Some were sailing to climates where the heat is so great that our
most sultry summer in England is comparatively cold; others were off northward, perhaps whale-fishing,
where they would see huge icebergs and hear the growling of the polar bears.

We were taking our last cruise of the season. It was already near the end of October, and the
weather was becoming stormy. Passing out of the Solent into the Channel, we found the sea much
rougher than we expected, and as night came on it blew a regular gale. The wind and sea roared,
the rain poured down in torrents, and the night seemed to me to be the darkest I had ever known.
But on board the "Swallow" we had no fear. We trusted to the seamanship of our skipper and
the goodness of our vessel, and went to bed with minds as free from fear as if the sea were
smooth and the sky clear.

I awoke just as dawn was breaking, dressed quickly, and throwing a water-proof cloak over me
popped my head up the companion-ladder to see how things looked. The old skipper was on deck;
he had not turned in during the night. I wished him good-morning, and he remarked, in return,
that the wind was going down, he thought. Looking at the sea, I observed two or three large
fragments of wood floating near, and they attracted his notice at the same moment.

"Has there been a wreck, captain?" I asked, with a feeling of awe.

"That's about what it is, miss," answered the old seaman.

"Do you think the people are drowned?" I inquired, anxiously.

"Well," replied Captain Bounce, casting, as I thought, rather a contemptuous glance at me,
"people don't in general live under water, miss."

"Perhaps they may have had boats," I said, meekly. "Do you think boats could have reached the
shore in such a storm?"

"Well," answered the old captain, "they might have had boats, and they mightn't; and the boats,
supposing they had 'em, might have lived through the storm, and at the same time they mightn't."

This was not giving me much information, and I thought to myself that my friend the skipper
did not seem so much inclined for a chat as usual. I turned to look at the sea in search of
more pieces of wreck, when I discovered in the distance a dark speck rising out of the water.
I pointed it out to the skipper at once, who took his glass out of his pocket, and after looking
through it for a moment exclaimed,

"There's something floating there, and a man clinging to it, as I'm alive!"

As he spoke my brother-in-law came on deck, and also took a look through the telescope. Then
he, the captain and every sailor on board became eager and excited. You would have thought
it some dear friend of each whose life was to be saved. The yacht was headed in the direction
of the object, the boat was quickly lowered, the captain himself, with four sailors, jumping
into it, and in another minute they caught in their arms a poor little exhausted and fainting
boy as he dropped from the mast of a large sunken ship. We could now distinguish the tops of
all the three masts appearing above the waves, for the sea was not deep, and the ship had settled
down in an upright position.

Poor Charley Standish was soon in the cabin of the yacht, and after swallowing some champagne
he revived sufficiently to tell us his story. The sunken ship was the "Melbourne," bound for
Australia, and this was Charley's first voyage as a midshipman on board. During the darkness
of the night she had been run into by a large homeward-bound merchantman of the same class.
She sank within an hour of the collision. In the scramble for the boats Charley thought he
had but little chance for finding a place; and as the ship filled and kept sinking deeper in
the water, an instinct of self-preservation led him to climb into the rigging. Then up he went,
higher and higher, even to the topmast; and at last, when the vessel went down all at once,
he found himself, to his inexpressible relief, still above the surface.

What most astonished us all was that a boy so young should have been able to hold on for more
than an hour to a slippery mast, exposed to the fury of the wind, and within reach, even, of
the lashing waves. We sailed home at once to the Isle of Wight, and wrote to the boy's mother,
a widow living in London, to tell her of his safety. The boy himself stayed with us two or
three days, until we bought him new clothes, and then went to his mother. Great was her joy
when she once more clasped him to her loving heart. My brother-in-law took a great fancy to
him. He has watched his career, and seen him at intervals ever since. Charley Standish is now
a chief mate on board a great merchantman of the same class as the "Melbourne."

THE PARSEES.

The Parsees are supposed to be descendants of the ancient Persians, who, after the defeat of
their King Yezdezerd, the last of the dynasty of Sassan, by the followers of Mohammed, fled
to the mountains of Khorasan. On the death of Yezdezerd, they quitted their native land, and
putting to sea, were permitted to settle at Sanjan, a place near the sea-coast, between Bombay
and Surat, about twenty-four miles south of Damaun.

The Parsees are now chiefly settled in Bombay, numbering about one hundred and fifteen thousand
souls, or one fifth of the population.

The most enterprising, in a commercial point of view, of the various races of Bombay, are the
Parsees, some of whom are even more wealthy than the most successful of the European merchants.
They bear the very highest character for honesty and industry, and are intelligent and benevolent.
The late Sir Jamsetjee Jeejeebhoy was a faultless model of a merchant prince, in integrity,
enterprise, and munificence. He founded a hospital that bears his name, and made himself conspicuous
for his active benevolence up to the day of his death.

Great numbers of the poorer Parsees are clerks in the government offices--a species of service
for which they are peculiarly fitted, on account of their attention to business, industry,
and general intelligence. Their inclinations are essentially pacific; and such a phenomenon
as a Parsee soldier is almost unknown.

The Parsees are alive to the advantage of affording a good education to their children; and
among the largest seminaries in the city of Bombay are those belonging to this community. A
Parsee school is an interesting sight. The children are decidedly pretty; and as they sit in
rows, with glittering, many-colored dresses, and caps and jewels, they look like a gay parterre
of flowers.

On account of their peculiar religious belief, the Parsees are known also as "Fire Worshippers;"
but however great their awe for fire and light, they consider them only as emblems of a higher
power. The Parsees pay reverence to two kinds of fire--the Adaran, lawful for the people to
behold; and the Behram, which must be seen by none but the chief Dustoor, or priest, and must
be screened from the rays of the sun. When required for a new temple, a portion of the sacred
fire is procured in a golden censer from Mount Elbourg, near Yezd, where resides the chief
pontiff, and where the holy flame is perpetually maintained. The Behram fire is said to have
had its origin from the natural bituminous fires on the shores of the Caspian, and to have
never been extinguished. It is supposed to be fed with sandal and other precious and aromatic
woods, and is kept burning on a silver grating.

The Parsees are the only Eastern nation who abstain from smoking. They do not eat food cooked
by a person of another religion, and object to beef and pork.

When a Parsee dies, a dog must be present, as it is supposed to drive away evil spirits, who
are on the alert to seize upon the dying man's soul. This precaution is called the sagdad,
or dog-gaze. One of the chief reasons for the great veneration in which dogs are held by Parsees
arises from the tradition that in their emigration from Persia to India their ancestors were,
during a dark night, nearly driven upon the shores of Guzerat, and that they were aroused and
first warned of their impending danger by the barking of the dogs on board their ships.

When a Parsee dies, the body is dressed in clean, but old clothes, and conveyed to its last
resting-place on an iron bier; meat and drink are placed at hand for three days, as during
that time the soul is supposed to hover around in the hope of being reunited to its late earthly
tenement.

The Parsee sepulchres are of so peculiar a character as to merit particular notice. Should
any of my readers ever go to Bombay, he will find two of these dakhmas, or Temples of Silence,
in a secluded part of Malabar Hill, though admittance is denied within the walls enclosing
the melancholy structures to aught but Parsees. The interior is fitted up with stages or stories
of stone pavement, slanting down to a circular opening, like a well, covered with a grating,
into which the bones are swept, after the fowls of the air, the dew, and the sun have deprived
them of every particle of flesh.

The Parsees assign as their reason for not burying their dead, that, having received many benefits
from the earth during their lifetime, they consider it defiled by placing dead bodies in it.
Similarly, they do not adopt the Hindoo custom of burning their dead, as another element, fire,
would be rendered impure.

The chief distinctive feature of the Parsee dress is the hat, to which the community cling
with a pertinacity that would be extraordinary, were it not common. Even the Parsee representative
of "Young Bombay," dressed from top to toe in European costume, including a pair of shiny boots,
cannot be induced to discard the abominable topee, or hat, distinctive of his race; though,
perhaps, after all, we who live in glass houses should not throw stones; for what can be more
hideous than the chimney-pot hat of our boasted civilization? The Parsee head-dress, which
contests the palm of ugliness with its English rival, is constructed on a strong but light
framework, covered with highly-glazed, dark-colored chintz. The priests, who dress like the
laity, wear a hat of much the same shape as the former, but white, instead of a dark color.

On occasions of ceremony, the ordinary tight-fitting narrow garment is exchanged for one with
very full skirts, like a petticoat; and a shawl is usually worn round the waist, which is at
other times omitted. The costume of the women is a combination of that of the Hindoos and Mussulmans,
consisting of the short body and sarree of the former, with the full trousers of the latter.
Both sexes endue themselves, at seven years of age, with the sacred shirt, which is worn over
the trousers; the sadra, as it is called, is made of a thin, transparent muslin, and is meant
to represent the coat-of-mail the men wore when they arrived in India, and with which they
believe they can resist the spiritual assaults of Ahriman, the evil principle. The hair of
the women is concealed by linen skull-caps, fitting tight to the head.

It is a singular and interesting sight to watch the Parsees assembled on the sea-shore, and,
as the sun sinks below the horizon, to mark them prostrating themselves, and offering up their
orisons to the great giver of light and heat, which they regard as representing the Deity.
Their prayers are uttered, it is said, in an unknown tongue; and after the fiery face of the
orb of day has disappeared in his ocean bed, and the wondrous pillars of light shooting aslant
the sky, proclaim that the "day is done," and the night is at hand, they raise themselves from
their knees, and turn silently away from the beach, which is left once more to twilight and
the murmur, or, if in angry mood, the roar, of the sea as it breaks on the shore.

THE CRIPPLED BOY.

FROM THE FRENCH.

"Don't cry any more, Genevieve; you must get married again," said a man in the working dress
of a slater, just returning from his day's work, to a poor woman who was sitting at the foot
of a camp bed, weeping, and rocking her baby at the same time. "Your husband is dead; he fell
from a ladder, and it killed him. It is a great misfortune for you and your family; but crying
won't help you."

Saying these words in a rough voice, to hide the emotion caused by the poor woman's despair,
the workman brushed away a tear with his coat sleeve.

"My poor George!" said the woman.

"If your son was only good for anything," added the workman, rudely, throwing a glance of disdain
upon a poor, pale, weak, and crippled boy, who was seated on the floor in a corner of the room;
"if that child would ever grow into a man, I would take him with me, and teach him how to clamber
over roofs, and to keep his balance upon the beams, and drop from the end of a rope. But no,
he grows worse and worse every day; and now he can hardly bear his own weight. He is almost
twelve years old, that son of yours; and if they said he was four, it would be a compliment."

"Is it the fault of Jacques that he came crooked into the world, my brother?"

"No, certainly not. I don't blame him, poor child, I don't blame him; but he will always be
a useless mouth in the world. Luckily, he will not live long," he whispered in the ear of his
sister. Then he rose, and went out, calling, "Good by till to-morrow," in a tone of voice which
betrayed the anxiety he felt at the situation of his sister and her children.

"Luckily I shall not live long," was repeated by a sweet, sad voice, in an accent which only
belongs to those who have suffered deeply.

"What are you saying, Jacques?" inquired Genevieve.

"That I am good for nothing. My uncle was right."

"Take courage, my son. When you are older, you will grow stronger."

"Yes, if--" said the boy.

But he left the sentence unfinished, and his mother was too much absorbed in her grief to ask
him what he meant. It was late, and in a few minutes the poor family retired. It was hardly
light when Jacques went down into the court-yard to see the grooms curry the horses, wash the
carriages, and get ready for the day.

It was summer, and very soon a pretty little girl came down into the court. Jacques uttered
a loud cry when he saw her.

"Without crutches, Mademoiselle Emilie!"

"So you see, Jacques," replied the young girl, with a sweet smile. "I shall not use them any
more. To be sure, I am a little weak here," she added, showing her left arm and foot, which
were smaller than the right; "and besides," she said, "I am a little crooked."

"And mademoiselle believes that she is entirely cured?"

"Certainly, Jacques. Only think, I was worse than you are! Stop, Jacques! I do really believe
that you would be cured if you would go with me, and take lessons in gymnastics at the house
of Colonel Amoros."

"I am too poor to do that, mademoiselle. Somebody told my mother that these academies of gymnas--gym--I
don't know what--are very expensive; and besides that, what good would they do me? for my uncle
says I shall not live long."

"Perhaps your uncle does not know any better than our doctor. But really, Jacques, have you
not seen sometimes old people crooked and deformed? They have lived long, perhaps, those same
old people."

"But it is not at all likely that they were obliged to earn their living, mademoiselle."

"Poor Jacques!" exclaimed Emilie, in a tone of compassion. "You listen to me. When I am married,
and have lots of money, I promise you that it will give me pleasure to make any sacrifice to
pay for your being cured."

"Ah, I shall be too old then, or dead--who knows?"

"What can be done?" she exclaimed, tapping the toe of her boot on the ground with an air of
vexation.

Then seeing an elderly lady come into the court, she ran to meet her, exclaiming,--

"My dear friend, allow Jacques to go with us to the Amoros gymnasium. You gave me one ticket.
Say, will you give me two?"

"It is impossible, mademoiselle. I cannot give away your tickets without leave from your father."

"Leave from my father, who is not here!" cried Emilie. "He is in Martinique. Before we could
get an answer--O, dear! O, dear!"

"Do not distress yourself so, my child," said the governess. "I have heard that they receive
free pupils in the gymnasium conducted by M. Amoros. For many years they have taken those unfortunate
children who are unable to pay the price of subscription. It is very generous and kind in Colonel
Amoros, for it must be very expensive to support an establishment of this kind in the city."

"It is very good in the colonel; but then I want to pay for Jacques, because if every one went
without paying, the school would soon come to an end."

"But what money have you to pay with?"

"Ah, you shall see, my kind friend.--Jacques," she added, turning to the poor boy, whose pale
and suffering face expressed all the interest he took in this conversation,--"Jacques, you
must come with me to the gymnasium."

"Never, for I cannot walk so far as that, mademoiselle," said Jacques, sadly.

"But you must ride in my carriage."

"Just think of that, mademoiselle! No, I am too poorly clothed," said the poor son of the slater,
glancing at his worn-out vest and at his green trousers patched with gray.

"Haven't you any Sunday clothes?"

"Yes, mademoiselle, but they are very little better."

"They must be cleaner, certainly. Go and put them on. Hurry!"

Jacques obeyed. A few moments later, he came down, looking a little better dressed; but it
was owing to the careful hands of a good workwoman, and not to the quality of the cloth which
made his garments.

Emilie was obliged to use all her authority before the servants would allow the little peasant
to enter the coach. At last she placed him on the seat before her, and he was much more astonished
than delighted at finding himself run away with by a pair of frisky young horses.

In a street named Jean-Goujon you can see a large white building, of a very elegant style of
architecture. On the front of it was printed, in large letters, the words GYMNASE CIVIL ORTHOSOMATIQUE,
and other inscriptions to explain the object of the edifice.

In 1815 Colonel Amoros made the first effort to introduce gymnastics into France. Messrs. Jomard
and Julien not only seconded him fully, but insisted on the importance of these exercises,
not alone for physical development, but for moral and intellectual strength.

