"Oh, 'is foot's right enough. It's 'is teeth that's the worry. 'E ses to me, 'Mother,' he ses,
'afore I can do any good I must 'ave me teeth seen to.' Oh, this fighting's cruel work!"

Could he have been wounded in the jaw? The thought was horrible, but I remarked with affected
cheerfulness, "Well, come, anyhow he is able to write."

"Oh, 'e can write right enough--got the prize at school for 'rithmatic, 'e did."

"Yes, but I mean if he is able to write he can't be so very bad."

"Oh, 'e didn't write that. That was August come a twelvemonth. The very first thing they done
to him was to take out pretty near 'alf 'is teeth. The military authorities do pull you about
something shocking."

"And where did he go after Hav--after Leehar--I mean after the hospital?" I was getting rather
bewildered.

"Oh, 'e went to the War right enough; but 'is digestion's that bad. They said 'e'd feel a lot
better once 'is teeth was was out, but 'e ses, 'Mother,' 'e ses, 'you want a mouth full of
teeth to eat this bullet beef what they give us.' Next thing was they set him to drive them
machines."

"What machines would those be?" I asked, groping for a little light.

"Why, them motors as they use out there. 'E got meddling with one of 'em, and it was the nearest
thing 'e didn't 'ave 'is 'and in a jelly; the machine didn't act proper, or somethink o' that."

"And do you mean that his hand was injured?"

"Not as I've 'eard on," came the prompt reply.

"Well, but I thought you said your son had been wounded."

"Ah, yes, that was 'is toe, yer see; sent 'im down to the base 'ospital, Leeharver."

"Yes, you told me that; but I heard he might be coming home. I was afraid perhaps he was disabled."

"That's right. 'E's coming 'ome right enough. Ought to be 'ere in 'bout five minutes. 'Ope
'is dinner 'asn't spiled time I've stood 'ere talking to you."

"Well, what is the matter with him then?" I asked desperately.

"Dunno there's anything partic'lar wrong with 'im. 'E's going to get married to-morrer, if
that's what you mean. 'Ope it won't be the beginning of fresh troubles for 'im. But you never
know what's coming next."

I agreed that you never did.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

LETTERS FROM MACEDONIA.

III.

Jerry, my lad,--We have lost a dear friend, and with him, alas, the piping days of peace. No,
he is not dead, or even moribund, but his friendship for us lives no longer. His name is Feodor,
and he is a Bulgar comitadjus, or whatever is the singular of "comitadji," and he lived until
lately in No. 2 Dugout, Hyde Park, just over the way.

It is a moot point which delighted us the more, Feodor's charming manner or his exquisite trousers.
These two characteristics were the more pleasing because of their perfect contrast; for whereas
his manner was refined and retiring, his trousers were distinctly aggressive in their flaunting
shameless redness.

Feodor's appearances were at first spasmodic. This was only natural, seeing that he had not
yet instilled into us his own attractive habit of laisser aller and laisser faire, and that
his red trousers offered such a beautiful mark.

He would appear suddenly, smile seraphically towards us, and then disappear before our snipers
could get on to him. At first of course we tried to pot him, but gradually our ferocity gave
way to amazement and then to tolerance. At last came a day when Feodor climbed on to his parapet
and made us a pretty little speech. We cheered him loudly, although we didn't understand much
of it. Next day we brought down an interpreter and asked Feodor for an encore. His second performance
was even more spirited than the first, and after a graceful vote of thanks to our benefactor
we asked the interpreter to oblige.

It appeared that from his boyhood Feodor had been apprenticed to an assistant piano-tuner in
Varna. Rosy days of rapid promotion followed, and the boy, completely wrapped up in his profession,
soon became a deputy assistant piano-tuner. Then followed the old, old story of vaulting ambition.

The youth, his head turned by material success, sought to consolidate his social position by
a marriage above his station, and dared to aspire to the hand of a full piano-tuner's daughter.

The old man tried gentle dissuasion at first, but the obstinate pertinacity of the stripling
made him gradually lose patience. He was a hale and hearty veteran, and when the situation
came to a climax his method of dealing with it was stern and thorough.

Seizing the hapless Feodor during an evening call he interned him in the vitals of a tuneless
Baby Grand, and for three hours played on him CHOPIN'S polonaise in A flat major, with the
loud pedal down. On his release Feodor had lost his reason and rushed to the nearest police-station
to ask to be sent to the Front immediately. His object, he explained, was to end the War. The
Bulgar authorities thought the plan worth trying and sent him off as a comitadjus; and to these
circumstances we were indebted for his society.

Every day we saw more and more of Feodor, and we grew to love him. As to sniping him now--the
idea never entered our beads. Accordingly, while a deafening strafe proceeded daily on both
sides of us, we remained in a state of idyllic peace and hatelessness.

Then arrived the cruel day when the Brass Hats came round, and a large and important General
asked us--

"But are you being offensive enough to the enemy in front?"

"Offensive to Feodor, Sir? Impossible!"

"You must be offensive," he rejoined. "I don't think there is sufficient hate in this part
of the line."

It was this unfortunate moment that Feodor chose to step on to his parapet and call out cheerfully
to the Great Man--

"Good morning, Johnee!"

For one tense moment I thought the General would burst. By an effort he pulled himself together,
however, and shouted to my troops in a voice of thunder--

"At That Person in front--fifteen rounds rapid. Fire!"

We had to do it, of course, and, although I think most of our sights were a little high, accidents
will happen. Feodor emitted one unearthly shriek, and his time back towards home would, if
it had been taken, make a world's championship record.

I don't think he was physically hurt; but his poor trousers were badly punctured!...

Our friend, Jerry, may not be lost, but he is certainly gone behind.

  Yours always,
  PETER.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

    "From the Pentland Firth to Norway, the eyes of the British Fleet are
    those of Nunquam."--Yorkshire Post.

We suppose old Dormio is asleep as usual.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The clergy will be pleased to hear of parishioners who are
    sick.".--Parish Magazine.

No doubt they mean it kindly, but it sounds rather callous.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Holders of 15s. 6d. War Savings Certificates and scrip vouchers of the
    War Loan are acceptable over the Post Office counter at their face
    value."--Daily News.

"'My face is my fortune, Sir,' she said."

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Will anyone give 15/- and a kind home to a nice little brown miniature
    poodle dog, 3 years, ideal pet and companion?"--The Bazaar.

Sixpence more and the little pet could buy a War Savings Certificate.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE FATE OF UMBRELLAS.

No. I.

From Arthur Vivian, Bury Street, St. James's, to Mrs. Morton, Dockington Hall, Bucks.

