    Speak not harshly--learn to feel
    Another's woes, another's weal;
    Of malice, hate, and guile, instead,
    By friendship's holy bonds be led;
    For sorrow is man's heritage
    From early youth to hoary age.

THE RECORD

    "The hours are viewless angels, that still go gliding by,
    And bear each moment's record up to Him that sits on high."

A mother wrote a story about her daughter in which she represented her as making some unkind
and rude remarks to her sister. Julia was a reader of the newspapers, and it did not escape
her notice. The incident was a true one, but it was one she did not care to remember, much
less did she like to see it in print.

"Oh! mother, mother," she exclaimed, "I do not think you are kind to write such stories about
me. I do not like to have you publish it when I say anything wrong."

"How do you know it is you? It is not your name." Julia then read the story aloud.

"It is I. I know it is I, mother. I shall be afraid of you if you write such stories about
me, I shall not dare to speak before you."

"Remember, my child, that God requireth the past, and nothing which you say, or do, or think,
is lost to him."

Poor Julia was quite grieved that her mother should record the unpleasant and unsisterly words
which fell from her lips. She did not like to have any memorial of her ill-nature preserved.
Julia thought that the careless words which had passed her lips would be forgotten, but she
should have known that every word and act of our lives is to be recorded and brought to our
remembrance.

I have known children to be very much interested, and to be influenced to make a great effort
to do right, by an account-book which was kept by their mothers. When such a book is kept at
school, and every act is recorded, the pupils are much more likely to make an effort to perform
the duties required of them. So it is in Sabbath-schools. I recently heard a Sabbath-school
superintendent remark that the school could not be well sustained unless accounts were kept
of the attendance, etc., of the pupils.

Many years ago a man, brought before a tribunal, was told to relate his story freely without
fear, as it should not be used against him. He commenced to do so, but had not proceeded far
before he heard the scratching of a pen behind a curtain. In an instant he was on his guard,
for by that sound he knew that, notwithstanding their promise, a record was being taken of
what he said.

Silently and unseen by us the angel secretaries are taking a faithful record of our words and
actions, and even of our thoughts. Do we realize this? and a more solemn question is, What
is the record they are making?

Not long ago I read of a strange list. It was an exact catalogue of the crimes committed by
a man who was at last executed in Norfolk Island, with the various punishments he had received
for his different offenses. It was written out in small hand by the chaplain, and was nearly
three yards long.

What a sickening catalogue to be crowded into one brief life. Yet this man was once an innocent
child. A mother no doubt bent lovingly over him, a father perhaps looked upon him in pride
and joy, and imagination saw him rise to manhood honored and trusted by his fellow-men. But
the boy chose the path of evil and wrong-doing regardless of the record he was making, and
finally committed an act, the penalty for which was death, and he perished miserably upon the
scaffold.

Dear readers, most of you are young, and your record is but just commenced. Oh, be warned in
time, and seek to have a list of which you will not be ashamed when scanned by Jehovah, angels,
and men. Speak none but kind, loving words, have your thoughts and aspirations pure and noble,
crowd into your life all the good deeds you can, and thus crowd out evil ones.

We should not forget that an account-book is kept by God, in which all the events of our lives
are recorded, and that even every thought will be brought before us at the day of judgment.

There is another book spoken of in the Bible. The book of life, and it is said that no one
can enter heaven whose name is not written in the Lamb's book of life.

Angels are now weighing moral worth. We have but one short, preparing hour in which to redeem
the past and get ready for the future. Our life record will soon be examined. What shall it be!

    MOTHER.

    The silvery hairs are weaving
      A crown above her brow,
    But surely mother never seemed
      One-half so sweet as now!

    The love-light beams from out her eyes
      As clear, as sweet and true,
    As when, with youthful beauty crowned,
      Life bloomed for her all new.

    No thought of self doth ever cast
      A cloudlet o'er the light
    That shines afar from out her soul,
      So steadfast, pure, and bright.

    Her love illumes the darkest hour,
      Smooths all the rugged way,
    Makes lighter every burden,
      Cheers through each weary day.

    More precious than the rarest gem
      In all the world could be;
    More sweet than honor, fame, and praise,
      Is mother's love to me.

THE RIGHT DECISION.

It was the beginning of vacation when Mr. Davis, a friend of my father, came to see us, and
asked to let me go home with him. I was much pleased with the thought of going out of town.
The journey was delightful, and when we reached Mr. Davis' house everything looked as if I
were going to have a fine time. Fred Davis, a boy about my own age, took me cordially by the
hand, and all the family soon seemed like old friends. "This is going to be a vacation worth
having," I said to myself several times during the evening, as we all played games, told riddles,
and laughed and chatted merrily as could be.

At last Mrs. Davis said it was almost bedtime. Then I expected family prayers, but we were
very soon directed to our chambers. How strange it seemed to me, for I had never before been
in a household without the family altar. "Come," said Fred, "mother says you and I are going
to be bedfellows," and I followed him up two pair of stairs to a nice little chamber which
he called his room; and he opened a drawer and showed me a box, and boat, and knives, and powder-horn,
and all his treasures, and told me a world of new things about what the boys did there. He
undressed first and jumped into bed. I was much longer about it, for a new set of thoughts
began to rise in my mind.

When my mother put my portmanteau into my hand, just before the coach started, she said tenderly,
in a low tone, "Remember, Robert, that you are a Christian boy." I knew very well what that
meant, and I had now just come to a point of time when her words were to be minded. At home
I was taught the duties of a Christian child; abroad I must not neglect them, and one of these
was evening prayer. From a very little boy I had been in the habit of kneeling and asking the
forgiveness of God, for Jesus' sake, acknowledging his mercies, and seeking his protection
and blessing.

"Why don't you come to bed, Robert?" cried Fred. "What are you sitting there for?" I was afraid
to pray, and afraid not to pray. It seemed that I could not kneel down and pray before Fred.
What would he say? Would he not laugh? The fear of Fred made me a coward. Yet I could not lie
down on a prayerless bed. If I needed the protection of my heavenly Father at home, how much
more abroad. I wished many wishes; that I had slept alone, that Fred would go to sleep, or
something else, I hardly knew what. But Fred would not go to sleep.

Perhaps struggles like these take place in the bosom of every one when he leaves home and begins
to act for himself, and on his decision may depend his character for time, and for eternity.
With me the struggle was severe. At last, to Fred's cry, "Come, boy, come to bed," I mustered
courage to say, "I will kneel down and pray first; that is always my custom." "Pray?" said
Fred, turning himself over on his pillow, and saying no more. His propriety of conduct made
me ashamed. Here I had long been afraid of him, and yet when he knew my wishes he was quiet
and left me to myself. How thankful I was that duty and conscience triumphed.

That settled my future course. It gave me strength for time to come. I believe that the decision
of the "Christian boy," by God's blessing, made me the Christian man; for in after years I
was thrown amid trials and temptations which must have drawn me away from God and from virtue,
had it not been for my settled habit of secret prayer.

Let every boy who has pious parents, read and think about this. You have been trained in Christian
duties and principles. When you go from home do not leave them behind you. Carry them with
you and stand by them, and then in weakness and temptation, by God's help, they will stand
by you. Take a manly stand on the side of your God and Saviour, of your father's God. It is
by abandoning their Christian birthright that so many boys go astray, and grow up to be young
men dishonoring parents, without hope and without God in the world.

SUSIE'S PRAYER

It was a half-holiday. The children were gathered on the green and a right merry time they
were having.

"Come, girls and boys," called out Ned Graham, "let's play hunt the squirrel."

All assented eagerly, and a large circle was formed with Ned Graham for leader, because he
was the largest.

"Come, Susie," said one of the boys, to a little girl who stood on one side, and seemed to
shrink from joining them.

"Oh, never mind her!" said Ned, with a little toss of his head, "she's nobody, anyhow. Her
father drinks."

A quick flush crept over the child's pale face as she heard the cruel, thoughtless words.

She was very sensitive, and the arrow had touched her heart in its tenderest place.

Her father was a drunkard, she knew, but to be taunted with it before so many was more than
she could bear; and with great sobs heaving from her bosom, and hot tears filling her eyes,
she turned and ran away from the playground.

Her mother was sitting by the window when she reached home, and the tearful face of the little
girl told that something had happened to disturb her.

"What is the matter, Susie?" she asked, kindly.

"Oh mother," Susie said, with the tears dropping down her cheeks, as she hid her face in her
mother's lap, "Ned Graham said such a cruel thing about me," and here the sobs choked her voice
so that she could hardly speak; "He said that I wasn't anybody, and that father drinks."

"My poor little girl," Mrs. Ellet said, very sadly. There were tears in her eyes, too.

Such taunts as this were nothing new.

"Oh, mother," Susie said, as she lifted her face, wet with tears, from her mother's lap, "I
can't bear to have them say so, and just as if I had done something wicked. I wish father wouldn't
drink! Do you suppose he'll ever leave it off?"

"I hope so," Mrs. Ellet answered, as she kissed Susie's face where the tears clung like drops
of dew on a rose. "I pray that he may break off the habit, and I can do nothing but pray, and
leave the rest to God."

That night Mr. Ellet came home to supper, as usual. He was a hard-working man, and a good neighbor.
So everybody said, but he had the habit of intemperance so firmly fixed upon him that everybody
thought he would end his days in the drunkard's grave. Susie kissed him when he came through
the gate, as she always did, but there was something in her face that went to his heart--a
look so sad, and full of touching sorrow for one so young as she!

"What ails my little girl?" he asked as he patted her curly head.

"I can't tell you, father," she answered, slowly.

"Why?" he asked.

"Because it would make you feel bad." Susie replied.

"I guess not," he said, as they walked up to the door together. "What is it, Susie?"

"Oh, father," and Susie burst into tears again as the memory of Ned Graham's words came up
freshly in her mind, "I wish you wouldn't drink any more, for the boys and girls don't like
to play with me, 'cause you do."

Mr. Ellet made no reply. But something stirred in his heart that made him ashamed of himself;
ashamed that he was the cause of so much sorrow and misery. After supper he took his hat, and
Mrs. Ellet knew only too well where he was going.

At first he had resolved to stay at home that evening, but the force of habit was so strong
that he could not resist, and he yielded, promising himself that he would not drink more than
once or twice.

Susie had left the table before he had finished his supper, and as he passed the great clump
of lilacs by the path, on his way to the gate, he heard her voice and stopped to listen to
what she was saying.

"Oh, good Jesus, please don't let father drink any more. Make him just as he used to be when
I was a baby, and then the boys and girls can't call me a drunkard's child, or say such bad
things about me. Please, dear Jesus, for mother's sake and mine."

Susie's father listened to her simple prayer with a great lump swelling in his throat.

And when it was ended he went up to her, and knelt down by her side, and put his arm around
her, oh, so lovingly!

"God in Heaven," he said, very solemnly, "I promise to-night, never to touch another drop of
liquor as long as I live. Give me strength to keep my pledge, and help me to be a better man."

"Oh, father," Susie cried, her arms about his neck, and her head upon his breast, "I'm so glad!
I shan't care about anything they say to me now, for I know you won't be a drunkard any more."

"God helping me, I will be a man!" he answered, as, taking Susie by the hand he went back into
the house where his wife was sitting with the old patient look of sorrow on her face.--the
look that had become so habitual.

I cannot tell you of the joy and thanksgiving that went up from that hearthstone that night.
I wish I could, but it was too deep a joy which filled the hearts of Susie and her mother to
be described.

Was not Susie's prayer answered?

    There is never a day so dreary,
      But God can make it bright.
    And unto the soul that trusts him
      He giveth songs in the night.

    There is never a path so hidden,
      But God will show the way,
    If we seek the Spirit's guidance,
      And patiently watch and pray.

COMPANY MANNERS.

"Well," said Bessie, very emphatically, "I think Russell Morton is the best boy there is, anyhow."

"Why so, pet?" I asked, settling myself in the midst of the busy group gathered around in the
firelight.

"I can tell," interrupted Wilfred, "Bessie likes Russ because he is so polite."

"I don't care, you may laugh," said frank little Bess; "that is the reason--at least, one of
them. He's nice; he don't stamp and hoot in the house--and he never says, 'Halloo Bess,' or
laughs when I fall on the ice."

"Bessie wants company manners all the time," said Wilfred. And Bell added: "We should all act
grown up, if she had her fastidiousness suited."

Bell, be it said in passing, is very fond of long words, and has asked for a dictionary for
her next birthday present.

Dauntless Bessie made haste to retort, "Well, if growing up would make some folks more agreeable,
it's a pity we can't hurry about it."

"Wilfred, what are company manners?" interposed I from the depths of my easy chair.

"Why--why--they're--It's behaving, you know, when folks are here, or we go a visiting."

"Company manners are good manners," said Horace,

"Oh yes," answered I, meditating on it. "I see; manners that are too good--for mamma--but just
right for Mrs. Jones."

"That's it," cried Bess.

"But let us talk it over a bit. Seriously, why should you be more polite to Mrs. Jones than
to mamma? You don't love her better?"

"Oh my! no indeed," chorused the voices.

"Well, then, I don't see why Mrs. Jones should have all that's agreeable; why the hats should
come off, and the tones soften, and 'please,' and 'thank you,' and 'excuse me,' should abound
in her house, and not in mamma's."

"Oh! that's very different."

"And mamma knows we mean all right. Besides, you are not fair, cousin; we were talking about
boys and girls--not grown up people."

Thus my little audience assailed me, and I was forced to a change of base.

"Well, about boys and girls, then. Can not a boy be just as happy, if, like our friend Russell,
he is gentle to the little girls, doesn't pitch his little brother in the snow, and respects
the rights of his cousins and intimate friends? It seems to me that politeness is just as suitable
to the playground as to the parlor."

"Oh, of course; if you'd have a fellow give up all fun," said Wilfred.

"My dear boy," said I, "that isn't what I want. Run, and jump, and shout as much as you please;
skate, and slide, and snowball; but do it with politeness to other boys and girls, and I'll
agree you will find just as much fun in it. You sometimes say I pet Burke Holland more than
any of my child-friends. Can I help it? For though he is lively and sometimes frolicsome, his
manners are always good. You never see him with his chair tipped up, or his hat on in the house.
He never pushes ahead of you to get first out of the room. If you are going out, he holds open
the door; if weary, it is Burke who brings a glass of water, places a chair, hands a fan, springs
to pick up your handkerchief--and all this without being told to do so, or interfering with
his own gaiety in the least.

"This attention isn't only given to me as the guest, or to Mrs. Jones when he visits her, but
to mamma, Aunt Jennie, and little sister, just as carefully; at home, in school, or at play,
there is always just as much guard against rudeness. His courtesy is not merely for state occasions,
but a well-fitting garment worn constantly. His manliness is genuine loving-kindness. In fact,
that is exactly what real politeness is; carefulness for others, and watchfulness over ourselves,
lest our angles shall interfere with their comfort."

It is impossible for boys and girls to realize, until they have grown too old to easily adopt
new ones, how important it is to guard against contracting carelessness and awkward habits
of speech and manners. Some very unwisely think it is not necessary to be so very particular
about these things except when company is present. But this is a grave mistake, for coarseness
will betray itself in spite of the most watchful sentinelship.

It is impossible to indulge in one form of speech, or have one set of manners at home, and
another abroad, because in moments of confusion or bashfulness, such as every young person
feels sometimes who is sensitive and modest, the habitual mode of expression will discover itself.

It is not, however, merely because refinement of speech and grace of manners are pleasing to
the sense, that our young friends are recommended to cultivate and practice them, but because
outward refinement of any sort reacts as it were on the character and makes it more sweet and
gentle and lovable, and these are qualities that attract and draw about the possessor a host
of kind friends. Then again they increase self-respect.

The very consciousness that one prepossesses and pleases people, makes most persons feel more
respect for themselves, just as the knowledge of being well dressed makes them feel more respectable.
You can see by this simple example, how every effort persons make toward perfecting themselves
brings some pleasant reward.

    BELIEVE AND TRUST.

THE BELLE OF THE BALLROOM.

"Only this once," said Edward Allston, fixing a pair of loving eyes on the beautiful girl beside
him--"only this once, sister mine. Your dress will be my gift, and will not, therefore, diminish
your charity fund; and besides, if the influences of which you have spoken, do, indeed, hang
so alluringly about a ballroom, should you not seek to guard me from their power? You will
go, will you not? For me--for me?"

The Saviour, too, whispered to the maiden, "Decide for me--for me." But her spirit did not
recognize the tones, for of late it had been bewildered with earthly music.

She paused, however, and her brother waited her reply in silence.

Beware! Helen Allston, beware! The sin is not lessened that the tempter is so near to thee.
Like the sparkle of the red wine to the inebriate are the seductive influences of the ballroom.
Thy foot will fall upon roses, but they will be roses of this world, not those that bloom for
eternity. Thou wilt lose the fervor and purity of thy love, the promptness of thy obedience,
the consolation of thy trust. The holy calm of thy closet will become irksome to thee, and
thy power of resistance will be diminished many fold, for this is the first great temptation.
But Helen will not beware. She forgets her Saviour. The melody of that rich voice is dearer
to her than the pleadings of gospel memories.

Two years previous to the scene just described, Helen Allston hoped she had been converted.
For a time she was exact in the discharge of her social duties, regular in her closet exercises,
ardent, yet equable, in her love. Conscious of her weakness, she diligently used all those
aids, so fitted to sustain and cheer. Day by day, she rekindled her torch at the holy fire
which comes streaming on to us from the luminaries of the past--from Baxter, Taylor, and Flavel,
and many a compeer whose names live in our hearts, and linger on our lips. She was alive to
the present also. Upon her table a beautiful commentary, upon the yet unfulfilled prophecies,
lay, the records of missionary labor and success. The sewing circle busied her active fingers,
and the Sabbath-school kept her affections warm, and rendered her knowledge practical and thorough.
But at length the things of the world began insensibly to win upon her regard. She was the
child of wealth, and fashion spoke of her taste and elegance. She was very lovely, and the
voice of flattery mingled with the accents of honest praise. She was agreeable in manners,
sprightly in conversation, and was courted and caressed. She heard with more complacency, reports
from the gay circles she had once frequented, and noted with more interest the ever-shifting
pageantry of folly. Then she lessened her charities, furnished her wardrobe more lavishly,
and was less scrupulous in the disposal of her time. She formed acquaintances among the light
and frivolous, and to fit herself for intercourse with them, read the books they read, until
others became insipid.

Edward Allston was proud of his sister, and loved her, too, almost to idolatry.

They had scarcely been separated from childhood, and it was a severe blow to him when she shunned
the amusements they had so long shared together. He admired indeed the excellency of her second
life, the beauty of her aspirations, the loftiness of her aims, but he felt deeply the want
of that unity in hope and purpose which had existed between them. He felt, at times, indignant,
as if something had been taken from himself. Therefore, he strove by many a device to lure
her into the path he was treading. He was very selfish in this, but he was unconscious of it.
He would have climbed precipices, traversed continents, braved the ocean in its wrath, to have
rescued her from physical danger, but, like many others, thoughtless as himself, he did not
dream of the fearful importance of the result; did not know that the Infinite alone could compute
the hazard of the tempted one. Thus far had he succeeded, that she had consented to attend
with him a brilliant ball.

"It will be a superb affair," he said, half aloud, as he walked down the street. "The music
will be divine, too. And she used to be so fond of dancing! 'T was a lovely girl spoiled, when
the black-coated gentry preached her into their notions. And yet--and yet--pshaw!--all cant!--all
cant! What harm can there be in it? And if she does withstand all this, I will yield the point
that there is something--yes, a great deal in her religion."

So musing, he proceeded to the shop of Mrs. Crofton, the most fashionable dressmaker in the
place, and forgot his momentary scruples in the consultation as to the proper materials for
Helen's dress, which was to be a present from him, and which he determined should be worthy
her grace and beauty.

The ball was over, and Helen stood in her festal costume, before the ample mirror in her chamber,
holding in one hand a white kid glove she had just withdrawn. She had indeed been the belle
of the ballroom. Simplicity of life, and a joyous spirit, are the wonder-workers, and she was
irresistibly bright and fresh among the faded and hackneyed of heated assembly rooms. The most
delicate and intoxicating flattery had been offered her, and wherever she turned, she met the
glances of admiration. Her brother, too, had been proudly assiduous, had followed her with
his eyes so perpetually as to seem scarcely conscious of the presence of another; and there
she stood, minute after minute, lost in the recollections of her evening triumph.

Almost queenlike looked she, the rich folds of her satin robe giving fullness to her slender
form, and glittering as if woven with silver threads. A chain of pearls lay on her neck, and
gleamed amid the shading curls, which floated from beneath a chaplet of white roses. She looked
up at length, smiled at her lovely reflection in the mirror, and then wrapping herself in her
dressing-gown, took up a volume of sacred poems. But when she attempted to read, her mind wandered
to the dazzling scene she had just quitted. She knelt to pray, but the brilliant vision haunted
her still, and ever as the wind stirred the vines about the window, there came back that alluring
music.

She rose with a pang of self-reproach. Instead of the confidence, the consciousness of protection,
the holy serenity with which she usually sought her pillow, she experienced an excitement and
restlessness which nothing could allay. She attempted to meditate, but with every thought of
duty came memories of the festal garlands, and the blazing lamps, and the flitting figures
of the merry dancers.

Tears sprang to her eyes, and she exclaimed, "In the field of my heart also hath the enemy
sown tares." She took up the book, and read again; then too soulful to remain quiet, she rapidly
paced the chamber. Resolutely and carefully she reviewed the past, back to her first faint
trembling hope. Rigorously, as in the presence of her Maker, she scanned her first departure
from the narrow path; and if her earlier convictions were pungent, tenfold more intense was
the agony of this her second awakening.

In the solitude of his chamber, Edward thought with less elation of his successful plan. He
believed that Helen would have yielded to no ordinary temptation, and felt that he had been
scarcely generous to enlist her affections against her principles. His repeated, "It is but
a trifle," did not satisfy him; and when he had listened hour after hour to her footfall, he
could no longer restrain his inclination to soothe her emotion. In vain he assayed all the
arguments, all the sophistry, which the world employs to attract the lukewarm professor.

