                  So, with remorsefulness acute,
  Reparation.                 He rigged it up a substitute;
                              Providing it a new posterior,
                              At least as good--if not superior.
  His Process.                He cut it out a tail of card,
                              And stuck it on with ox-gall, hard.
                              (This he prefers to vulgar glue)
                              And made that Wopse as good as new!
  Forgiveness.                Until the grateful insect soared
                              Away, with self-respect restored
                              To find that mutilated part of his
                              Had been so well replaced by artifice.
  Further proceedings of      The Scientist, again complacent,
  the Philosopher.            To pen and ink and paper hastened,
                              And, in a letter to the Field,
                              Told how the Wasp, though halved, was healed,
                              And how, despite a treatment rigorous,
                              It left consoled--and even vigorous!
  Moral.                      The Moral--here this poem stops--is
                              'Tis ne'er too late for mending Wopses!

       *       *       *       *       *

A "CUTTING" OBSERVATION.--This is from the Daily Graphic:--

    GENERALS.--TWO WANTED to do the work of a small house; £14-£18;
    for two in family; easy place, early dinners; very little company.

How sad! At how low an ebb has our Army arrived under recent mal-administration! In time we
may have even "Our Only General" himself advertising for a place, or answering an advertisement
like the above. Not much "company drill"; so, if easy, it will be dull.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The labouring men, as a class, are rapidly approaching to a
    footing of full equality with the capitalist, and it is even
    possible they may become the stronger of the two.... They
    must be content to have their class interests, whatever they
    are, judged in the light of the public interests.... Labour
    and capital may have separate interests, yet their separate
    interests are little, in the long run, as compared with those
    in which they are united."--Mr. Gladstone at West Calder. Better is't, or worse?
  See, the battle-flags are flying freely as on War's red field.
  And the rival hosts are lugging, straining--neither means to yield.
  For the war-drums, are they silent? Nay--they're not of parchment now,
  But, with printers' ink and paper, you can raise a loud tow-row;
  Be it at a Labour Congress, Masters' Meeting, Club, or Pub,
  Public tympana are deafened with their ceaseless rub-a-dub!

  Tug of War! It is a Tug, and not, alas! mere friendly war,
  As when rival muscles tussle, Highland lad or British tar,
  'Tis a furious fight à outrance, knitted, knotted each to each,
  Heels firm-planted, hands tense-clenching, till the knobby knuckles bleach.
  Federated Masters straggle, Federated Toilers strain,
  Each intent on selfish interest, each on individual gain,
  And a chasm yawns between them, and a gulf is close behind!
  What is the most likely issue of such conflict fierce and blind?
  Unionism 'gainst Free Labour, Capital against mere Toil!
  Is it better than two tigers fighting for some desert spoil?
  "Federate" the Libyan lions as against the elephant herds,
  Will the battle be less savage? Let us not be fooled by words!

