It has all been done by mail. Postage stamps bring to the house every year business in excess
of $65,000,000.

One day the head correspondent in an old established wholesale house in the east had occasion
to go through some files of ten and twelve years before. He was at once struck with the number
of names with which he was not familiar--former customers who were no longer buying from the
house. He put a couple of girls at work making a list of these old customers and checking them
up in the mercantile directories to see how many were still in business.

Then he sat down and wrote to them, asking as a personal favor that they write and tell him
why they no longer bought of the house; whether its goods or service had not been satisfactory,
whether some complaint had not been adjusted. There must be a reason, would they not tell him
personally just what it was?

Eighty per cent of the men addressed replied to this personal appeal; many had complaints that
were straightened out; others had drifted to other houses for no special reason. The majority
were worked back into the "customer" files. Three years later the accounting department checked
up the orders received from these re-found customers. The gross was over a million dollars.
The business all sprung from one letter.

Yes, there is romance in the postage stamp; there is a latent power in it that few men realize--a
power that will remove commercial mountains and erect industrial pyramids.

The ADVANTAGES Of Doing Business By Letter

PART I--PREPARING TO WRITE THE LETTER--CHAPTER 2

Letters have their limitations and their advantages. The correspondent who is anxious to secure
the best results should recognize the inherent weakness of a letter due to its lack of personality
in order to reinforce these places. Equally essential is an understanding of the letter's great
NATURAL ADVANTAGES so that the writer can turn them to account--make the most of them. It possesses
qualities the personal representative lacks and this chapter tells how to take advantage of them

       *       *       *       *       *

While it is necessary to know how to write a strong letter, it is likewise essential to understand
both the limitations of letters and their advantages. It is necessary, on the one hand, to
take into account the handicaps that a letter has in competition with a personal solicitor.
Offsetting this are many distinct advantages the letter has over the salesman. To write a really
effective letter, a correspondent must thoroughly understand its carrying capacity.

A salesman often wins an audience and secures an order by the force of a dominating personality.
The letter can minimize this handicap by an attractive dress and force attention through the
impression of quality. The letter lacks the animation of a person but there can be an individuality
about its appearance that will assure a respectful hearing for its message.

The personal representative can time his call, knowing that under certain circumstances he
may find his man in a favorable frame of mind, or even at the door he may decide it is the
part of diplomacy to withdraw and wait a more propitious hour. The letter cannot back out of
the prospect's office; it cannot shape its canvass to meet the needs of the occasion or make
capital out of the mood or the comments of the prospect.

The correspondent cannot afford to ignore these handicaps under which his letter enters the
prospect's office. Rather, he should keep these things constantly in mind in order to overcome
the obstacles just as far as possible, reinforcing the letter so it will be prepared for any
situation it may encounter at its destination. Explanations must be so clear that questions
are unnecessary; objections must be anticipated and answered in advance; the fact that the
recipient is busy must be taken into account and the message made just as brief as possible;
the reader must be treated with respect and diplomatically brought around to see the relationship
between his needs and your product.

But while the letter has these disadvantages, it possesses qualities that the salesman lacks.
The letter, once it lies open before the man to whom you wish to talk, is your counterpart,
speaking in your words just as you would talk to him if you were in his office or in his home.
That is, the right letter. It reflects your personality and not that of some third person who
may be working for a competitor next year.

The letter, if clearly written, will not misrepresent your proposition; its desire for a commission
or for increased sales will not lead it to make exaggerated statements or unauthorized promises.
The letter will reach the prospect just as it left your desk, with the same amount of enthusiasm
and freshness. It will not be tired and sleepy because it had to catch a midnight train; it
will not be out of sorts because of the poor coffee and the cold potatoes served at the Grand
hotel for breakfast; it will not be peeved because it lost a big sale across the street; it
will not be in a hurry to make the 11:30 local; it will not be discouraged because a competitor
is making inroads into the territory.

You have the satisfaction of knowing that the letter is immune from these ills and weaknesses
to which flesh is heir and will deliver your message faithfully, promptly, loyally. It will
not have to resort to clever devices to get past the glass door, nor will it be told in frigid
tones by the guard on watch to call some other day. The courtesy of the mail will take your
letter to the proper authority. If it goes out in a dignified dress and presents its proposition
concisely it is assured of a considerate hearing.

It will deliver its message just as readily to some Garcia in the mountains of Cuba as to the
man in the next block. The salesman who makes a dozen calls a day is doing good work; letters
can present your proposition to a hundred thousand prospects on the one forenoon. They can
cover the same territory a week later and call again and again just as often as you desire.
You cannot time the letter's call to the hour but you can make sure it reaches the prospect
on the day of the week and the time of the month when he is most likely to give it consideration.
You know exactly the kind of canvass every letter is making; you know that every call on the
list is made.

The salesman must look well to his laurels if he hopes to compete successfully with the letter
as a selling medium. Put the points of advantage in parallel columns and the letter has the
best of it; consider, in addition, the item of expense and it is no wonder letters are becoming
a greater factor in business.

The country over, there are comparatively few houses that appreciate the full possibilities
of doing business by mail. Not many appreciate that certain basic principles underlie letter
writing, applicable alike to the beginner who is just struggling to get a foothold and to the
great mail-order house with its tons of mail daily. They are not mere theories; they are fundamental
principles that have been put to the test, proved out in thousands of letters and on an infinite
number of propositions.

The correspondent who is ambitious to do by mail what others do by person, must understand
these principles and how to apply them. He must know the order and position of the essential
elements; he must take account of the letter's impersonal character and make the most of its
natural advantages.

Writing letters that pull is not intuition; it is an art that anyone can acquire. But this
is the point: it must be acquired. It will not come to one without effort on his part. Fundamental
principles must be understood; ways of presenting a proposition must be studied, various angles
must be tried out; the effectiveness of appeals must be tested; new schemes for getting attention
and arousing interest must be devised; clear, concise description and explanation must come
from continual practice; methods for getting the prospect to order now must be developed. It
is not a game of chance; there is nothing mysterious about it--nothing impossible, it is solely
a matter of study, hard work and the intelligent application of proved-up principles.

Gathering MATERIAL And Picking Out TALKING Points

PART I--PREPARING TO WRITE THE LETTER--CHAPTER 3

Arguments--prices, styles, terms, quality or whatever they may be--are effective only when
used on the right "prospect" at the right time. The correspondent who has some message of value
to carry gathers together a mass of "raw material"--facts, figures and specifications on which
to base his arguments--and then he selects the particular talking points that will appeal to
his prospect. By systematic tests, the relative values of various arguments may be determined
almost to a scientific nicety. How to gather and classify this material and how to determine
what points are most effective is the subject in this chapter

       *       *       *       *       *

An architect can sit down and design your house on paper, showing its exact proportions, the
finish of every room, the location of every door and window. He can give specific instructions
for building your house but before you can begin operations you have got to get together the
brick and mortar and lumber--all the material used in its construction.

And so the correspondent-architect can point out the way to write a letter: how to begin, how
to work up interest, how to present argument, how to introduce salesmanship, how to work in
a clincher and how to close, but when you come to writing the letter that applies to your particular
business you have first to gather the material. And just as you select cement or brick or lumber
according to the kind of house you want to build, so the correspondent must gather the particular
kind of material he wants for his letter, classify it and arrange it so that the best can be
quickly selected.

The old school of correspondents--and there are many graduates still in business--write solely
from their own viewpoint. Their letters are focused on "our goods," "our interests" and "our
profits." But the new school of letter writers keep their own interests in the background.
Their sole aim is to focus on the viewpoint of the reader; find the subjects in which he is
interested, learn the arguments that will appeal to him, bear down on the persuasion that will
induce him to act at once.

And so the successful correspondent should draw arguments and talking points from many sources;
from the house, from the customer, from competitors, from the news of the day from his knowledge
of human nature.

"What shall I do first?" asked a new salesman of the general manager.

"Sell yourself," was the laconic reply, and every salesman and correspondent in the country
could well afford to take this advice to heart.

Sell yourself; answer every objection that you can think of, test out the proposition from
every conceivable angle; measure it by other similar products; learn its points of weakness
and of superiority, know its possibilities and its limitations. Convince yourself; sell yourself,
and then you will be able to sell others.

The first source of material for the correspondent is in the house itself. His knowledge must
run back to the source of raw materials: the kinds of materials used, where they come from,
the quality and the quantity required, the difficulties in obtaining them, the possibilities
of a shortage, all the problems of mining or gathering the raw material and getting it from
its source to the plant--a vast storehouse of talking points.

Then it is desirable to have a full knowledge of the processes of manufacture; the method of
handling work in the factory, the labor saving appliances used, the new processes that have
been perfected, the time required in turning out goods, the delays that are liable to occur--these
are all pertinent and may furnish the strongest kind of selling arguments. And it is equally
desirable to have inside knowledge of the methods in the sales department, in the receiving
room and the shipping room. It is necessary for the correspondent to know the firm's facilities
for handling orders; when deliveries can be promised, what delays are liable to occur, how
goods are packed, the condition in which they are received by the customer, the probable time
required in reaching the customer.

Another nearby source of information is the status of the customer's account; whether he is
slow pay or a man who always discounts his bills. It is a very important fact for the correspondent
to know whether the records show an increasing business or a business that barely holds its own.

Then a most important source--by many considered the most valuable material of all--is the
customer himself. It may be laid down as a general proposition that the more the correspondent
knows about the man to whom he is writing, the better appeal he can make.

In the first place, he wants to know the size and character of the customer's business. He
should know the customer's location, not merely as a name that goes on the envelope, but some
pertinent facts regarding the state or section. If he can find out something regarding a customer's
standing and his competition, it will help him to understand his problems.

Fortunate is the correspondent who knows something regarding the personal peculiarities of
the man to whom he is writing. If he understands his hobbies, his cherished ambition, his home
life, he can shape his appeal in a more personal way. It is comparatively easy to secure such
information where salesmen are calling on the trade, and many large houses insist upon their
representatives' making out very complete reports, giving a mass of detailed information that
will be valuable to the correspondent.

Then there is a third source of material, scarcely less important than the study of the house
and the customer, and that is a study of the competitors--other firms who are in the same line
of business and going after the same trade. The broad-gauged correspondent never misses an
opportunity to learn more about the goods of competing houses--the quality of their products,
the extent of their lines, their facilities for handling orders, the satisfaction that their
goods are giving, the terms on which they are sold and which managers are hustling and up to
the minute in their methods.

The correspondent can also find information, inspiration and suggestion from the advertising
methods of other concerns--not competitors but firms in a similar line.

Then there are various miscellaneous sources of information. The majority of correspondents
study diligently the advertisements in general periodicals; new methods and ideas are seized
upon and filed in the "morgue" for further reference.

Where a house travels a number of men, the sales department is an excellent place from which
to draw talking points. Interviewing salesmen as they come in from trips and so getting direct
information, brings out talking points which are most helpful as are those secured by shorthand
reports of salesmen's conventions.

Many firms get convincing arguments by the use of detailed forms asking for reports on the
product. One follow-up writer gets valuable pointers from complaints which he terms "reverse"
or "left-handed" talking points.

Some correspondents become adept in coupling up the news of the day with their products. A
thousand and one different events may be given a twist to connect the reader's interest with
the house products and supply a reason for "buying now." The fluctuation in prices of raw materials,
drought, late seasons, railway rates, fires, bumper crops, political discussions, new inventions,
scientific achievements--there is hardly a happening that the clever correspondent, hard pressed
for new talking points, cannot work into a sales letter as a reason for interesting the reader
in his goods.

       *       *       *       *       *

SOURCES OF MATERIAL:

                                               / 1. SOURCES
                        /   1. RAW MATERIALS --| 2. QUALITY
                        |                      | 3. SUPPLY
                        |                      \ 4. PRICE
                        |
                        |                      / 1. CAPACITY OF
                        PLANT                  |    PLANT
                        |                      | 2. NEW EQUIPMENT
                        |   2. PROCESSES OF  --| 3. TIME SAVING
                        |      MANUFACTURE     |    DEVICES
                        |                      \ 4. IMPROVED METHODS
   /- 1. THE HOUSE------|
   |                    |                      / 1. METHODS OF
   |                    |                      |    SALESMEN
   |                    |   3. KNOWLEDGE OF  --| 2. POLICY OF
   |                    |      DEPARTMENTS     |    CREDIT DEPT.
   |                    |                      | 3. CONDITIONS IN
   |                    |                      |    RECEIVING &
   |                    |                      \    SHIPPING DEPTS.
   |                    |
   |                    |   4. KNOWLEDGE OF
   |                    |      COSTS
   |                    |
   |                    |   5. STATUS OF       / 1. CREDIT
   |                    |      CUSTOMER'S    --|    STANDING
   |                    |      ACCOUNT         | 2. GROWING
   |                    |                      \    BUSINESS
   |                    |
   |                    |                      / 1. OLD LETTERS
   |                    |                      | 2. ADVERTISEMENTS
   |                    |   6. DOCUMENTS     --| 3. BOOKLETS,
   |                    |                      |    CIRCULARS, ETC.
   |                    |                      \ 4. TESTIMONIALS
   |                    |
   |                    |                      / 1. ACQUAINTANCES
   |                    |                      |    OF OFFICERS
   |                    \   7. PERSONNEL OF  --| 2. INTERESTS &
   |                           FIRM            |    RELATIONS
   |                                           \    OF OFFICERS
   |
   |                    /   1. CHARACTER OR
   |- 2. THE CUSTOMERS--|      KIND OF BUSINESS
   |                    |
   |                    |   2. SIZE OF BUSINESS
   |                    |
   |                    |   3. LENGTH OF TIME
   |                    |      IN BUSINESS
   |                    |
SOURCES                 |   4. LOCATION & LOCAL
  OF                    |      CONDITIONS
MATERIAL                |
   |                    |   5. COMPETITION
   |                    |
   |                    |   6. STANDING WITH
   |                    |      CUSTOMERS
   |                    |
   |                    |   7. METHODS & POLICIES
   |                    |
   |                    |   8. HOBBIES & PERSONAL
   |                    \      PECULIARITIES
   |
   |                                           / 1. QUALITY
   |                    /   1. GOODS         --| 2. EXTENT OF LINES
   |                    |                      \ 3. NEW LINES
   |                    |
   |                    |                      / 1. TERMS
   |                    |   2. POLICIES      --| 2. TREATMENT OF
   |                    |                      \    CUSTOMERS
   |                    |
   |- 3. COMPETITORS----|                      / 1. SIZE OF PLANT
   |                    |   3. CAPACITY      --| 2. EQUIPMENT
   |                    |                      | 3. FACILITIES FOR
   |                    |                      \    HANDLING ORDER
   |                    |
   |                    |                      / 1. NEW CAMPAIGNS
   |                    \   4. METHODS       --| 2. ADVERTISING
   |                                           \ 3. AGGRESSIVENESS
   |
   |                    /   1. METHODS
   |                    |
   |- 4. OTHER METHODS--|   2. ADVERTISING
   |     (NOT           |
   |     COMPETITORS)   \   3. SALES CAMPAIGNS
   |
   |                                           / 1. METHODS
   |                    /   1. SUPPLY HOUSES --\ 2. CAPACITY
   |                    |
   |                    |   2. GENERAL MARKET
   \- 5. MISCELLANEOUS--|      CONDITIONS
                        |
                        |   3. CURRENT EVENTS
                        |
                        |   4. ADVERTISING IN
                        \      GENERAL MAGAZINES

       *       *       *       *       *

Gathering the information is apt to be wasted effort unless it is classified and kept where
it is instantly available. A notebook for ideas should always be at hand and men who write
important sales letters should keep within reach scrapbooks, folders or envelopes containing
"inspirational" material to which they can readily refer.

The scrapbook, a card index or some such method for classifying and filing material is indispensable.
Two or three pages or cards may be devoted to each general subject, such as raw material, processes
of manufacture, methods of shipping, uses, improvements, testimonials, and so forth, and give
specific information that is manna for the correspondent. The data may consist of notes he
has written, bits of conversation he has heard, extracts from articles he has read, advertisements
of other concerns and circulars--material picked up from a thousand sources.

One versatile writer uses heavy manila sheets about the size of a letterhead and on these he
pastes the catch-lines, the unique phrases, the forceful arguments, the graphic descriptions
and statistical information that he may want to use. Several sheets are filled with metaphors
and figures of speech that he may want to use some time in illuminating a point. These sheets
are more bulky than paper but are easier to handle than a scrapbook, and they can be set up
in front of the writer while he is working.

Another correspondent has an office that looks as if it had been decorated with a crazy quilt.
Whenever he finds a word, a sentence, a paragraph or a page that he wants to keep he pins or
pastes it on the wall.

"I don't want any systematic classification of this stuff," he explains, "for in looking for
the particular word or point that I want, I go over so many other words and points that I keep
all the material fresh in my mind. No good points are buried in some forgotten scrapbook; I
keep reading these things until they are as familiar to me as the alphabet."

It may be very desirable to keep booklets, pamphlets and bulky matter that cannot be pasted
into a book or onto separate sheets in manila folders. This is the most convenient way for
classifying and filing heavy material. Or large envelopes may be used for this purpose.

Another favorite method of arrangement in filing talking points for reference is that of filing
them in the order of their pulling power. This, in many propositions, is considered the best
method. It is not possible, out of a list of arguments to tell, until after the try-out always,
which will pull and which will not. Those pulling best will be worked the most. Only as more
extensive selling literature is called for will the weaker points be pressed into service.

No matter what system is used, it must be a growing system; it must be kept up to date by the
addition of new material, picked up in the course of the day's work. Much material is gathered
and saved that is never used, but the wise correspondent does not pass by an anecdote, a good
simile, a clever appeal or forcible argument simply because he does not see at the moment how
he can make use of it.

In all probability the time will come when that story or that figure of speech will just fit
in to illustrate some point he is trying to make. Nor does the correspondent restrict his material
to the subject in which he is directly interested, for ideas spring from many sources and the
advertisement of some firm in an entirely different line may give him a suggestion or an inspiration
that will enable him to work up an original talking point. And so it will be found that the
sources of material are almost unlimited--limited in fact, only by the ability of the writer
to see the significance of a story, a figure of speech or an item of news, and connect it up
with his particular proposition.

But gathering and classifying material available for arguments is only preliminary work. A
wide knowledge of human nature is necessary to select from these arguments those that will
appeal to the particular prospect or class of prospects you are trying to reach.

"When you sit down to write an important letter, how do you pick out your talking points?"

This question was put to a man whose letters have been largely responsible for an enormous
mail-order business.

"The first thing I do," he replied, "is to wipe my pen and put the cork in the ink bottle."

His answer summarizes everything that can be said about selecting talking points: before you
start to write, study the proposition, picture in your mind the man to whom you are writing,
get his viewpoint, pick out the arguments that will appeal to him and then write your letter
to that individual.

The trouble with most letters is that they are not aimed carefully, the writer does not try
to find the range but blazes away in hopes that some of the shots will take effect.

There are a hundred things that might be said about this commodity that you want to market.
It requires a knowledge of human nature, and of salesmanship to single out the particular arguments
and the inducement that will carry most weight with the individual to whom you are writing.
For even if you are preparing a form letter it will be most effective if it is written directly
at some individual who most nearly represents the conditions, the circumstances and the needs
of the class you are trying to reach.

Only the new correspondent selects the arguments that are nearest at hand--the viewpoints that
appeal to him. The high score letter writers look to outside sources for their talking points.
One of the most fruitful sources of information is the men who have bought your goods. The
features that induced them to buy your product, the things that they talk about are the very
things that will induce others to buy that same product. Find out what pleases the man who
is using your goods and you may be sure that this same feature will appeal to the prospect.

It is equally desirable to get information from the man who did not buy your machine--learn
his reasons, find out what objections he has against it; where, in his estimation, it fell
short of his requirements; for it is reasonably certain that other prospects will raise the
same objections and it is a test of good salesmanship to anticipate criticisms and present
arguments that will forestall such objections.

In every office there should be valuable evidence in the files-- advertisements, letters, circulars,
folders and other publicity matter that has been used in past campaigns. In the most progressive
business houses, every campaign is thoroughly tested out; arguments, schemes, and talking points
are proved up on test lists, the law of averages enabling the correspondent to tell with mathematical
accuracy the pulling power of every argument he has ever used. The record of tests; the letters
that have fallen down and the letters that have pulled, afford information that is invaluable
in planning new campaigns. The arguments and appeals that have proved successful in the past
can be utilized over and over again on new lists or given a new setting and used on old lists.

The time has passed when a full volley is fired before the ammunition is tested and the range
found. The capable letter writer tests out his arguments and proves the strength of his talking
points without wasting a big appropriation. His letters are tested as accurately as the chemist
in his laboratory tests the strength or purity of material that is submitted to him for analysis.
How letters are keyed and tested is the subject of another chapter.

No matter what kind of a letter you are writing, keep this fact in mind: never use an argument
on the reader that does not appeal to you, the writer. Know your subject; know your goods from
the source of the raw material to the delivery of the finished product. And then in selling
them, pick out the arguments that will appeal to the reader; look at the proposition through
the eyes of the prospect; sell yourself the order first and you will have found the talking
points that will sell the prospect.

When You Sit Down To WRITE

PART I--PREPARING TO WRITE THE LETTER--CHAPTER 4

The weakness of most letters is not due to ungrammatical sentences or to a poor style, but
to a wrong viewpoint: the writer presents a proposition from his own viewpoint instead of that
of the reader. The correspondent has gone far towards success when he can VISUALIZE his prospect,
see his environments, his needs, his ambitions, and APPROACH the PROSPECT from THIS ANGLE.
This chapter tells how to get the class idea; how to see the man to whom you are writing and
that equally important qualification, how to get into the mood for writing--actual methods
used by effective correspondents

       *       *       *       *       *

When you call on another person or meet him in a business transaction you naturally have in
mind a definite idea of what you want to accomplish. That is, if you expect to carry your point.
You know that this end cannot be reached except by a presentation which will put your proposition
in such a favorable light, or offer such an inducement, or so mould the minds of others to
your way of thinking that they will agree with you. And so before you meet the other person
you proceed to plan your campaign, your talk, your attitude to fit his personality and the
conditions under which you expect to meet.

An advertising man in an eastern mining town was commissioned to write a series of letters
to miners, urging upon them the value of training in a night school about to be opened. Now
he knew all about the courses the school would offer and he was strong on generalities as to
the value of education. But try as he would, the letters refused to take shape. Then suddenly
he asked himself, "What type of man am I really trying to reach?"

And there lay the trouble. He had never met a miner face to face in his life. As soon as he
realized this he reached for his hat and struck out for the nearest coal breaker. He put in
two solid days talking with miners, getting a line on the average of intelligence, their needs--the
point of contact. Then he came back and with a vivid picture of his man in mind, he produced
a series of letters that glowed with enthusiasm and sold the course.

A number of years ago a printer owning a small shop in an Ohio city set out to find a dryer
that would enable him to handle his work faster and without the costly process of "smut-sheeting."
He interested a local druggist who was something of a chemist and together they perfected a
dryer that was quite satisfactory and the printer decided to market his product. He wrote fifteen
letters to acquaintances and sold eleven of them. Encouraged, he got out one hundred letters
and sold sixty-four orders. On the strength of this showing, his banker backed him for the
cost of a hundred thousand letters and fifty-eight thousand orders were the result.

The banker was interested in a large land company and believing the printer must be a veritable
wizard in writing letters, made him an attractive offer to take charge of the advertising for
the company's Minnesota and Canada lands.

The man sold his business, accepted the position--and made a signal failure. He appealed to
the printers because he knew their problems--the things that lost them money, the troubles
that caused them sleepless nights--and in a letter that bristled with shop talk he went straight
to the point, told how he could help them out of at least one difficulty--and sold his product.

But when it came to selling western land he was out of his element. He had never been a hundred
miles away from his home town; he had never owned a foot of real estate; "land hunger" was
to him nothing but a phrase; the opportunities of a "new country" were to him academic arguments--they
were not realities.

He lost his job. Discouraged but determined, he moved to Kansas where he started a small paper--and
began to study the real estate business. One question was forever on his lips: "Why did you
move out here?" And to prospective purchasers, "Why do you want to buy Kansas land? What attracts
you?"

Month after month he asked these questions of pioneers and immigrants. He wanted their viewpoint,
the real motive that drove them westward. Then he took in a partner, turned the paper over
to him and devoted his time to the real estate business. Today he is at the head of a great
land company and through his letters and his advertising matter he has sold hundreds of thousands
of acres to people who have never seen the land. But he tells them the things they want to
know; he uses the arguments that "get under the skin."

He spent years in preparing to write his letters and bought and sold land with prospects "face
to face" long before he attempted to deal with them by letter. He talked and thought and studied
for months before he dipped his pen into ink.

Now before he starts a letter, he calls to mind someone to whom he has sold a similar tract
in the past; he remembers how each argument was received; what appeals struck home and then,
in his letter, he talks to that man just as earnestly as if his future happiness depended upon
making the one sale.

The preparation to write the letter should be two-fold: knowing your product or proposition
and knowing the man you want to reach. You have got to see the proposition through the eyes
of your prospect. The printer sold his ink dryer because he looked at it from the angle of
the buyer and later he sold real estate, but not until he covered up his own interest and presented
the proposition from the viewpoint of the prospect.

Probably most successful letter writers, when they sit down to write, consciously or unconsciously
run back over faces and characteristics of friends and acquaintances until they find someone
who typifies the class they desire to reach. When writing to women, one man always directs
his appeal to his mother or sister; if trying to interest young men he turns his mind back
to his own early desires and ambitions.

Visualize your prospect. Fix firmly in your mind some one who represents the class you are
trying to reach; forget that there is any other prospect in the whole world; concentrate your
attention and selling talk on this one individual.

