DARK MOON                     CHARLES W. DIFFIN        148

    Mysterious, Dark, Out of the Unknown Deep Comes a New Satellite to
     Lure Three Courageous Earthlings on to Strange Adventure.
     (A Complete Novelette.)

WHEN CAVERNS YAWNED           CAPTAIN S. P. MEEK       198

    Only Dr. Bird's Super-Scientific Sleuthing Stands in the Way of
     Ivan Sarnoff's Latest Attempt at Wholesale Destruction.

THE EXILE OF TIME             RAY CUMMINGS             216

    Young Lovers of Three Eras Are Swept down the Torrent of the Sinister
     Cripple Tugh's Frightful Vengeance. (Part Two of a Four-Part Novel.)

WHEN THE MOON TURNED GREEN    HAL K. WELLS             241

    Outside His Laboratory Bruce Dixon Finds a World of Living Dead
     Men--and Above, in the Sky, Shines a Weird Green Moon.

THE DEATH-CLOUD               NAT SCHACHNER AND
                              ARTHUR L. ZAGAT          256

    The Epic Exploit of One Who Worked in the Dark and Alone, Behind
     the Enemy Lines, in the Great Last War. For advertising rates
address The Newsstand Group, Inc., 80 Lafayette St., New York or The
Wrigley Bldg., Chicago.

Flat-decked, all of them; busy places of hangars and machine shops and strange aircraft, large
and small, that rose vertically under the lift of flashing helicopters.

The air was alive and vibrant with directed streams of stubby-winged shapes that drove swiftly
on their way, with only a wisp of vapor from their funnel-shaped sterns to mark the continuous
explosion that propelled them. Here and there were those that entered a shaft of pale-blue
light that somehow outshone the sun. It marked an ascending area, and there ships canted swiftly,
swung their blunt noses upward, and vanished, to the upper levels.

A mile and more away, in a great shaft of green light from which all other craft kept clear,
a tremendous shape was dropping. Her hull of silver was striped with a broad red band; her
multiple helicopters were dazzling flashes in the sunlight. The countless dots that were portholes
and the larger observation ports must have held numberless eager faces, for the Oriental Express
served a cosmopolitan passenger list.

But Walter Harkness, standing at the window, stared out from troubled, frowning eyes that saw
nothing of the kaleidoscopic scene. His back was turned to the group of people in the room,
and he had no thought of wonders that were prosaic, nor of passengers, eager or blase; his
thoughts were only of freight and of the acres of flat roofs far in the distance where alternate
flashes of color marked the descending area for fast freighters of the air. And in his mind
he could see what his eyes could not discern--the markings on those roofs that were enormous
landing fields: Harkness Terminals, New York.

       *       *       *       *       *

Only twenty-four, Walt Harkness--owner now of Harkness, Incorporated. Dark hair that curled
slightly as it left his forehead; eyes that were taking on the intent, straightforward look
that had been his father's and that went straight to the heart of a business proposal with
disconcerting directness. But the lips were not set in the hard lines that had marked Harkness
Senior; they could still curve into boyish pleasure to mark the enthusiasm that was his.

He was not typically the man of business in his dress. His broad shoulders seemed slender in
the loose blouse of blue silk; a narrow scarf of brilliant color was loosely tied; the close,
full-length cream-colored trousers were supported by a belt of woven metal, while his shoes
were of the coarse-mesh fabric that the latest mode demanded.

He turned now at the sound of Warrington's voice. E. B. Warrington, Counsellor at Law, was
the name that glowed softly on the door of this spacious office, and Warrington's gray head
was nodding as he dated and indexed a document.

