DECEMBER, 1897.  NO. 6
         ================================

THE ORNITHOLOGICAL CONGRESS.

We had the pleasure of attending the Fifteenth Congress of the American Ornithologists' Union,
which met and held its three days annual session in the American Museum of Natural History,
New York City, November 9-11, 1897. Dr. C. Hart Merriam, of the Department of Agriculture,
Washington D.C., presided, and there were present about one hundred and fifty of the members,
resident in nearly all the states of the Union.

The first paper read was one prepared by J. C. Merrill, entitled "In Memoriam: Charles Emil
Bendire." The character, accomplishments, and achievements of the deceased, whose valuable
work in biographizing American birds is so well known to those interested in ornithology, were
referred to in so appropriate a manner that the paper, though not elaborate as it is to be
hoped it may ultimately be made, will no doubt be published for general circulation. Major
Bendire's services to American ornithology are of indisputable value, and his untimely death
eclipsed to some extent, possibly wholly, the conclusion of a series of bird biographies which,
so far as they had appeared, were deemed to be adequate, if not perfect.

Mr. Frank M. Chapman, the well known authority on birds, and whose recent books are valuable
additions to our literature, had, it may be presumed, a paper to read on the "Experiences of
an Ornithologist in Mexico," though he did not read it. He made, on the contrary, what seemed
to be an extemporaneous talk, exceedingly entertaining and sufficiently instructive to warrant
a permanent place for it in the Auk, of which he is associate editor. We had the pleasure of
examining the advance sheets of a new book from his pen, elaborately illustrated in color,
and shortly to be published. Mr. Chapman is a comparatively young man, an enthusiastic student
and observer, and destined to be recognized as one of our most scientific thinkers, as many
of his published pamphlets already indicate. Our limited space precludes even a reference to
them now. His remarks were made the more attractive by the beautiful stuffed specimens with
which he illustrated them.

Prof. Elliott Coues, in an address, "Auduboniana, and Other Matters of Present Interest," engaged
the delighted attention of the Congress on the morning of the second day's session. His audience
was large. In a biographical sketch of Audubon the Man, interspersed with anecdote, he said
so many interesting things that we regret we omitted to make any notes that would enable us
to indicate at least something of his characterization. No doubt just what he said will appear
in an appropriate place. Audubon's portfolio, in which his precious manuscripts and drawings
were so long religiously kept, which he had carried with him to London to exhibit to possible
publishers, a book so large that two men were required to carry it, though the great naturalist
had used it as an indispensable and convenient companion for so many years, was slowly and
we thought reverently divested by Dr. Coues of its wrappings and held up to the surprised and
grateful gaze of the spectators. It was dramatic. Dr. Coues is an actor. And then came the
comedy. He could not resist the inclination to talk a little--not disparagingly, but truthfully,
reading a letter never before published, of Swainson to Audubon declining to associate his
name with that of Audubon "under the circumstances." All of which, we apprehend, will duly
find a place on the shelves of public libraries.

We would ourself like to say something of Audubon as a man. To us his life and character have
a special charm. His was a beautiful youth, like that of Goethe. His love of nature, for which
he was willing to make, and did make, sacrifices, will always be inspiring to the youth of
noble and gentle proclivities; his personal beauty, his humanity, his love-life, his domestic
virtues, enthrall the ingenuous mind; and his appreciation--shown in his beautiful compositions--of
the valleys of the great river, La Belle Rivière, through which its waters, shadowed by the
magnificent forests of Ohio and Kentucky, wandered--all of these things have from youth up
shed a sweet fragrance over his memory and added greatly to our admiration of and appreciation
for the man.

So many subjects came before the Congress that we cannot hope to do more than mention the titles
of a few of them. Mr. Sylvester D. Judd discussed the question of "Protective Adaptations of
insects from an Ornithological Point of View;" Mr. William C. Rives talked of "Summer Birds
of the West Virginia Spruce Belt;" Mr. John N. Clark read a paper entitled "Ten Days among
the Birds of Northern New Hampshire;" Harry C. Oberholser talked extemporaneously of "Liberian
Birds," and in a most entertaining and instructive manner, every word he said being worthy
of large print and liberal embellishment; Mr. J. A. Allen, editor of The Auk, said a great
deal that was new and instructive about the "Origin of Bird Migration;" Mr. O. Widmann read
an interesting paper on "The Great Roosts on Gabberet Island, opposite North St. Louis;" J.
Harris Reed presented a paper on "The Terns of Gull Island, New York;" A. W. Anthony read of
"The Petrels of Southern California," and Mr. George H. Mackay talked interestingly of "The
Terns of Penikese Island, Mass."

There were other papers of interest and value. "A Naturalist's Expedition to East Africa,"
by D. G. Elliot, was, however, the pièce de résistance of the Congress. The lecture was delivered
in the lecture hall of the Museum, on Wednesday at 8 p. m. It was illustrated by stereopticon
views, and in the most remarkable manner. The pictures were thrown upon an immense canvas,
were marvellously realistic, and were so much admired by the great audience, which overflowed
the large lecture hall, that the word demonstrative does not describe their enthusiasm. But
the lecture! Description, experience, suffering, adventure, courage, torrid heat, wild beasts,
poisonous insects, venomous serpents, half-civilized peoples, thirst,--almost enough of torture
to justify the use of Coleridge's Ancient Mariner in illustration,--and yet a perpetual, quiet,
rollicking, jubilant humor, all-pervading, and, at the close, on the lecturer's return once
more to the beginning of civilization, the eloquent picture of the Cross, "full high advanced,"
all combined, made this lecture, to us, one of the very few platform addresses entirely worthy
of the significance of unfading portraiture.

                                                  --C. C. MARBLE.

THE MOUNTAIN BLUEBIRD.

In an early number of BIRDS we presented a picture of the common Bluebird, which has been much
admired. The mountain Bluebird, whose beauty is thought to excel that of his cousin, is probably
known to few of our readers who live east of the Rocky Mountain region, though he is a common
winter sojourner in the western part of Kansas, beginning to arrive there the last of September,
and leaving in March and April. The habits of these birds of the central regions are very similar
to those of the eastern, but more wary and silent. Even their love song is said to be less
loud and musical. It is a rather feeble, plaintive, monotonous warble, and their chirp and
twittering notes are weak. They subsist upon the cedar berries, seeds of plants, grasshoppers,
beetles, and the like, which they pick up largely upon the ground, and occasionally scratch
for among the leaves. During the fall and winter they visit the plains and valleys, and are
usually met with in small flocks, until the mating season.

