Edward was eager to enter the field in person. Since his return to England in 1340, his only
military experience had been a luckless winter campaign in the Lothians against King David.
In October, 1342, he left the Duke of Cornwall as warden of England during his absence, and
took ship at Sandwich for Brittany. He remained in the country until the early months of 1343,
raiding the land from end to end, receiving many of the greater barons into his obedience,
and striving in particular to conquer the regions included in the modern department of the
Morbihan. There he besieged Vannes, the strongest and largest city of Brittany, says Froissart,
after Nantes. The triumphs of his rival at last brought Philip VI. into Brittany. While Edward
laboriously pursued the siege of Vannes, amidst the hardships of a wet and stormy winter, Philip
watched his enemy from Ploermel, a few miles to the north. For a third time the situation of
Buironfosse and Tournai was renewed. The rivals were within striking distance, but once more
both Edward and Philip were afraid to strike. History still further repeated itself; for the
cardinal-bishops of Palestrina and Frascati, sent by Clement VI. to end the struggle, travelled
from camp to camp with talk of peace. The sufferings of both armies gave the kings a powerful
reason for listening to their advances. At last, on January 19, 1343, a truce for nearly four
years was signed at Malestroit, midway between Ploermel and Vannes, "in reverence of mother
church, for the honour of the cardinals, and that the parties shall be able to declare their
reasons before the pope, not for the purpose of rendering a judicial decision, but in order
to make a better peace and treaty". Scotland and the Netherlands were included in the truce,
and it was agreed that each belligerent should continue in the enjoyment of the territories
which he held at the moment. Vannes, the immediate apple of discord, was put into the hands
of the pope.

The spring of 1343 saw Edward back in England. The scene of interest shifted to the papal court
at Avignon, where ambassadors from Edward and Philip appeared to declare their masters' rights.
The protracted negotiations were lacking in reality. The English, distrusting Clement as a
French partisan, did their best to complicate the situation by complaints against papal provisions
in favour of aliens "not having knowledge of the tongue nor condition of those whose governance
and care should belong to them". English indignation rose higher when, despite the terms of
the truce and the promise of the cardinals, Montfort remained immured in his French prison,
while Breton nobles of his faction were kidnapped and put to death by Philip. Clement declared
himself against Edward's claims to the French throne, and, long before the negotiations had
reached a formal conclusion, it was clear that nothing would come of them. At last in 1345
the English King denounced the truce and prepared to renew the war. His first concern was,
necessarily finance, and he had already exhausted all his resources as a borrower. The financial
difficulties, which had stayed his career in the Netherlands five years before, had reached
their culmination. Stratford was avenged for the outrages of 1340, for Edward was in worse
embarrassments than on that winter night when the glare of torches illuminated the sovereign's
sudden return to the Tower. The king's Netherlandish, Rhenish, and Italian creditors would
trust him no longer and vainly clamoured for the repayment of their advances. "We grieve,"
he was forced to reply to the Cologne magistrates, "nay, we blush, that we are unable to meet
our obligations at the due time." Edward's anxiety to prepare for fresh campaigns made him
careless as to his former obligations. His wholesale neglect to repay his debts drove the great
banking houses of the Bardi and the Peruzzi into bankruptcy, and the failure of the English
king's creditors plunged all Florence into deep distress. One good result came from the king's
dishonour. The foreign sources of supply having dried up, Edward was forced to lean more exclusively
upon his English subjects. A wealthy family of Hull merchants, recently transferred to London,
became very flourishing. Its head, William de la Pole, who had financed every government scheme
since the days of Mortimer, became a knight, a judge, a territorial magnate, and the first
English merchant to found a baronial house. And as the credit of the English merchants was
limited, Edward was forced more and more to rely upon parliamentary grants. The memory of the
king's want of faith to the estates of 1341 had died away, and a parliament, which met in 1344,
once more made Edward liberal contributions. Secure of his subjects' support, the frivolous
king largely employed his resources in the chivalrous pageantry which stirred up the martial
ardour of his barons and made the war popular. It was then that he resolved to set up a "round
table" at Windsor after the fabled fashion of King Arthur. From this came the foundation of
the Round Tower which Edward was to erect in his favourite abode, and the organised chivalry
that was soon to culminate in the Order of the Garter. In the summer of 1345 Edward made that
journey to Sluys, which has already been noted, and he held on ship-board his last interview
with James van Artevelde. His immediate return to England showed that he had no mind to renew
his Flemish alliances. In the same year the death of the queen's brother, William of Avesnes,
established the rule of Louis of Bavaria in the three counties of Holland, Zealand, and Hainault
in the right of his wife, Philippa's elder sister. Edward put in a claim on behalf of his queen,
which further embittered his already uneasy relations with Louis, and led him to seek his field
of combat anywhere rather than in the Netherlands. In Brittany the murder of the nobles of
Montfort's faction had given an excuse for the renewal of partisan warfare as early as 1343,
but Montfort was still under surveillance in France, even after his release from Philip's prison,
and Joan of Flanders, the heroic defender of Hennebont, was hopelessly insane in England. At
last in 1345 Montfort ventured to flee from France to England, where he did homage to Edward
as King of France for the duchy which he claimed. He then went to Brittany, and there shortly
afterwards died. The new Duke of Brittany, also named John, was a mere boy when he was thus
robbed of both his parents' care, and his cause languished for want of a head. Edward took
upon himself the whole direction of Brittany as tutor of the little duke. Northampton was once
more sent thither, but for a time the war degenerated into sieges of castles and petty conflicts.

While action was thus impracticable in the Netherlands, and ineffective in Brittany, Gascony
became, for the first time during the struggle, the scene of military operations of the first
rank. The storm of warfare had hitherto almost spared the patrimony of the English king in
southern France. No great effort was made either by the French to capture the last bulwarks
of the Aquitanian inheritance, or by Edward to extend his duchy to its ancient limits. Cut
off from other fields of expansion, Edward threw his chief energies into the enlargement of
his power in southern France. He won over many of those Gascon nobles, including the powerful
lord of Albret, who had been alienated by his former indifference. All was ready for action,
and in June, 1345, Henry of Grosmont, Earl of Derby, the eldest son of Henry of Lancaster,
landed at Bayonne with a sufficient English force to encourage the lords of Gascony to rally
round the ducal banner. Soon after his landing, the death of his blind father made Derby Earl
of Lancaster. During the next eighteen months, the earl successfully led three raids into the
heart of the enemies' territory.[1] The first, begun very soon after his landing, occupied
the summer of 1345. Advancing from Libourne, the limit of the Anglo-Gascon power, Henry made
his way up the Dordogne, a fleet of boats co-operating with his land forces. He took the important
town of Bergerac, and thence, mounting the stream as far as Lalinde, he crossed the hills separating
the Dordogne from the Isle, and unsuccessfully assaulted Périgueux. Thence he advanced still
further, and captured the stronghold of Auberoche, dominating the rocky valley of the Auvézère.
Leaving a garrison at Auberoche, Henry returned to his base, but upon his withdrawal the French
closely besieged his conquest, and the earl made a sudden move to its relief. On October 21
he won a brisk battle outside the walls of Auberoche before the more sluggish part of his army
had time to reach the scene of action. This famous exploit again established the Gascon duke
in Périgord.

    [1] For these campaigns, see Ribadieu, Les Campagnes du Comté
    de Derby en Guyenne, Saintonge et Poitou (1865).

Early in 1346 the victor of Auberoche led his forces up the Garonne valley. La Réole, lost
since 1325, was taken in January, and thence Earl Henry marched to the capture of many a town
and fortress on the Garonne and the lower Lot. His most important acquisition was Aiguillon,
commanding the junction of the Lot and the Garonne, for its possession opened up the way for
the reconquest of the Agenais, the rich fruit of the last campaign of Charles of Valois. Duke
John of Normandy then appeared upon the scene, and Henry of Lancaster withdrew before him to
the line of the Dordogne. Aiguillon stood a siege from April to August, when the Duke of Normandy,
then at the end of his resources, solicited a truce. News having come to Lancaster at Bergerac
that Edward had begun his memorable invasion of Normandy, he contemptuously rejected the proposal.
Before long, Duke John raised the siege and hurried to his father's assistance. Thereupon Lancaster
returned to the Garonne and revictualled Aiguillon. Immediately after he started on his third
raid. This time he bent his steps northwards, and late in September was at Châteauneuf on the
Charente, whence he threatened Angoulême, and finally obtained its surrender. Crossing the
Charente, he entered French Saintonge, where the important town of Saint-Jean-d'Angely opened
its gates and took oaths to Edward as duke and king. Then he boldly dashed into the heart of
Poitou, marching by Lusignan to Poitiers. "We rode before the city," wrote Lancaster, "and
summoned it, but they would do nothing. Thereupon on the Wednesday after Michaelmas we stormed
the city, and all those within were taken or slain. And the lords that were within fled away
on the other side, and we tarried full eight days. Thus we have made a fair raid, God be thanked,
and are come again to Saint-Jean, whence we propose to return to Bordeaux." This exploit ended
Lancaster's Gascon career. In January, 1347, he was back in England, having restored the reputation
of his king in Gascony, and set an example of heroism soon to be emulated by his cousin, the
Black Prince.

Edward resolved to take the field in person in the summer of 1346. Special efforts were made
to equip the army, and lovers of ancient precedent were dismayed when the king called upon
all men of property to equip archers, hobblers, or men-at-arms, according to their substance,
that they might serve abroad at the king's wages. But the nation responded to the king's call,
and a host of some 2,400 cavalry and 10,000 archers and other infantry collected at Portsmouth
between Easter and the early summer.[1] There were the usual delays of a medieval muster, and
it was not until July was well begun that Edward, having constituted his second son Lionel
of Antwerp, a boy of six, as regent, took ship at Portsmouth with his eldest son, then sixteen
years of age, and, since 1343, Prince of Wales as well as Duke of Cornwall. The destination
of the army was a secret, but Edward's original idea seems to have been to join Henry of Lancaster
in Gascony, though we may well believe that the resources of medieval transport were hardly
adequate to convey so large a force for so great a distance. Moreover, a persistent series
of south-westerly winds prohibited all attempts to round the Breton peninsula, while Godfrey
of Harcourt, a Norman lord who had incurred the wrath of Philip VI. and had been driven into
exile, persistently urged on Edward the superior attractions of his native coast. When the
fleet set sail from Portsmouth, it was directed to follow in the admiral's track; and as soon
as the open sea was gained, the ships were instructed to make their way to the Côtentin. On
July 12 the English army reached Saint-Vaast de la Hougue, and spent five days in disembarking
and ravaging the neighbourhood.[2] Immediately on landing, Edward dubbed the Prince of Wales
a knight, along with other young nobles, one of whom was Roger Mortimer, the grandson and heir
of the traitor Earl of March. At last, on July 18, the English army began to move by slow stages
to the south. It met with little resistance, and plundered and burnt the rich countryside at
its discretion. The English marvelled at the fertility of the country and the size and wealth
of its towns. Barfleur was as big as Sandwich, Carentan reminded them of Leicester, Saint-Lo
was the size of Lincoln, and Caen was more populous than any English city save London.

    [1] On the details of this force, see Wrottesley, Crecy and
    Calais, in Collections for a History of Staffordshire, vol.
    xviii. (1897); cf. J.E. Morris in Engl. Hist. Review, xiv.,
    766-69.

    [2] Besides the sources for this campaign mentioned in Sir E.M.
    Thompson, Chronicle of Geoffrey le Baker, pp. 252-57, the
    disregarded Acta bellicosa Edwardi, etc., published in
    Moisant, Le Prince Noir en Aquitaine, pp. 157-74, from a
    Corpus Christi Coll. Cambridge MS., should be mentioned. It has
    first been utilised in H. Pientout's valuable paper, La prise
    de Caen par Édouard III. en 1346, in Mémoires de l'Académie de
    Caen (1904).

It was only at Caen that any real resistance was encountered. On July 26 Edward's soldiers
entered the northern quarter of the town without opposition, to find the fortified enclosures
of the two great abbeys of William the Conqueror and his queen undefended and desolate, the
grand bourg, the populous quarter round the church of St. Peter open to them, and only the
castle in the extreme north garrisoned. Caen was not a walled town, and the defenders preferred
to limit themselves to holding the southern quarter, the Ile Saint-Jean, which lay between
the district of St. Peter's and the river Orne, but was cut off from the rest by a branch of
the Orne that ran just south of St. Peter's church. There was sharp fighting at the bridge
which commanded access to the island; but the English archers prepared the way, and then the
men-at-arms completed the work. After a determined conflict, the Island of St. John was captured,
and its chief defenders, the Count of Eu, Constable of France, and the lord of Tancarville,
the chamberlain, were taken prisoners. Meanwhile the English fleet, which had devastated the
whole coast from Cherbourg to Ouistreham, arrived off the mouth of the Orne, laden with plunder
and eager to get back home with its spoils. Edward thought it prudent to avoid a threatened
mutiny by ordering the ships to recross the Channel, and take with them the captives and the
loot which he had amassed at Caen. During a halt of five days at Caen, Edward discovered a
copy of the agreement made between the Normans and King Philip for the invasion of England
eight years before. This also he despatched to England, where it was read before the Londoners
by the Archbishop of Canterbury in order to show that the aggression was not all on one side.

On July 31, Edward resumed his eastward march. At Lisieux, the next important stage, came the
inevitable two cardinals with their inevitable proposals of mediation, which Edward put aside
with scant civility. The army was soon once more on the move, and on August 7 struck the Seine
at Elbeuf, a few miles higher up the river than Rouen. Here Edward was at last in touch with
his enemy. During the English march through lower Normandy, Philip VI. had assembled a considerable
army, with which he occupied the Norman capital. Nothing but the Seine and a few miles of country
separated the two forces. But as at Buironfosse, at Tournai, and at Vannes, the French declined
to attack, and Edward would not depart from his tradition of acting on the defensive. The English
slowly made their way up the left bank of the Seine, avoiding the stronger castles and walled
towns, and devastating the open country. The French followed them on the right bank, carefully
watching their movements, and breaking all the bridges. So things went until, on August 13,
Edward reached Poissy, a town within fifteen miles of the capital.

The English advanced troops plundered up to the walls of Paris, whose citizens, watching in
terror the flames that made lurid the western sky, implored their king to come to their help.
From Saint-Denis Philip issued a challenge to Edward to meet him in the open field on a fixed
day, Edward, however, was not to be tempted by such appeals to his chivalry. The day after
Philip's message was sent, he repaired the bridge at Poissy, crossed the Seine, sent a stinging
reply to Philip's letter, and moved rapidly northwards. Avoiding Pontoise, Beauvais, and other
towns, he was soon within a few miles of the Somme. Long marching had fatigued his army, and
he resolved to retreat to the Flemish frontier. The French soon followed him by a route some
miles further towards the east. They reached the Somme earlier than the English, and were pouring
into Amiens and Abbeville, while Edward's scouts were vainly seeking for an unguarded passage
over the river. If the Somme could not be crossed, there was every chance of Edward's war-worn
army being driven into a corner at Saint-Valery, between the broad and sandy estuary of the
Somme and the open sea. When affairs had become thus critical, local guides revealed to the
English a way across the estuary, where a white band of chalk, called the Blanche taque, cropping
out of the sandy river bed, forms a hard, practicable ford from one bank of the river to the
other. "Then," writes an official reporter, "the King of England and his host took that water
of the Somme, where never man passed before without loss, and fought their enemies, and chased
them right up to the gate of Abbeville." That night Edward and his troops slept on the outskirts
of the forest of Crecy. After traversing this, they took up a strong position on the northern
side of the wood on Saturday, August 26. There, in the heart of his grandmother's inheritance
of Ponthieu, Edward elected to make a stand, and, for the first time in all their campaigning,
Philip felt sufficient confidence to engage in an offensive battle against his rival.

Ponthieu is a land of low chalk downs, open fields, and dense woods, broken by valleys, through
which the small streams that water it trickle down to the sea, and by the waterless depressions
characteristic of a chalk country. The village of Crécy-en-Ponthieu is situated on the north
bank of the little river Maye. Immediately to the east of the village, a lateral depression,
running north and south, called the Vallée aux Clercs, falls down into the Maye valley, and
is flanked with rolling downs, perhaps 150 to 200 feet in height. On the summit of the western
slopes of this valley, Edward stationed his army. Its right was held by the first of the three
traditional "battles," under the personal command of the young Prince of Wales. Its front and
right flank were protected by the hill, while still further to the right lay Crecy village
embowered in its trees, beyond which the dense forest formed an excellent protection from attack.
The second of the English battles, under the Earls' of Northampton and Arundel, held the less
formidable slopes of the upper portion of the Vallée aux Clercs, their left resting on the
enclosures and woods of the village of Wadicourt. The third battle, commanded by the king himself,
and stationed in the rear as a reserve, held the rolling upland plain, on the highest point
of which was a windmill, commanding the whole field, in which Edward took up his quarters.
The English men-at-arms left their horses in the rear. The archers of each of the two forward
battles were thrown out at an angle on the flanks, so that the enemy, on approaching the serried
mass of men-at-arms, had to encounter a severe discharge of arrows both from the right and
the left. It was the tactics of Halidon hill, perfected by experience and for the first time
applied on a large scale against a continental enemy. The credit of it may well be assigned
to Northampton, fresh from the fight at Morlaix, where similar tactics had already won the day.

The English were in position early in the morning of Saturday, August 26, and employed their
leisure in further strengthening their lines by digging shallow holes, like the pits at Bannockburn,
in the hope of ensnaring the French cavalry, if they came to close quarters with the dismounted
men-at-arms. The summer day had almost ended its course before the French army appeared. Philip
and his men had passed the previous night at Abbeville, and had not only performed the long
march from the capital of Ponthieu, but many of them, misled by bad information as to Edward's
position, had made a weary detour to the north-west. It was not until the hour of vespers that
the mass of the French host was marshalled in front of the village of Estrées on the eastward
plateau beyond the Vallée aux Clercs. John of Hainault, who had become a thorough-going French
partisan, advised Philip to delay battle until the following day. The French were tired; all
the army had not yet come up; night would soon put an end to the combat; the evening sun, shining
brightly after a violent summer storm, was blazing directly in the faces of the assailants.
But the French nobles demanded an immediate advance. Confident in their numbers and prowess,
they had already assured themselves of victory, and were quarrelling about the division of
the captives they would make. Philip, too sympathetic with the feudal point of view to oppose
his friends, ordered the advance.

The battle began by the French sending forward a strong force of Genoese crossbowmen, to prepare
the way for the cavalry charge. But the long bows of the English outshot the obsolete and cumbrous
weapons of the Genoese, whose strings had been wetted by the recent storm. The Italians descended
into the valley, but were soon demoralised by seeing their comrades fall all round them, while
their own bolts failed to reach the enemy. They were already in full retreat back up the slope,
when the impatience of the French horsemen burst all bounds. The reckless cavalry charge swept
right through the disordered ranks of the crossbowmen, whose groans and cries as they were
trampled underfoot by the mail-clad steeds, inspired the rear ranks of the French with the
vain belief that the English were hard pressed, and made them eager to join the fray. The charge,
as disorderly and as badly directed as the fatal attack of Bannockburn, never reached the English
ranks. Shot down right and left by archers, terrified by the fearful booming of three small
cannon that the English had dragged about during their wanderings, the French line soon became
a confused mob of furious horsemen on panic-stricken horses. With gallantry even more conspicuous
than their want of discipline, the French made no less than fifteen attempts to penetrate the
enemies' lines. At one point only did they get near their goal, and that was on the right battle
where the Prince of Wales himself was in command. A timely reinforcement sent by King Edward
relieved the pressure, and the French were soon in full retreat, protected, as the English
boasted, from further attack by the rampart of dead that they left behind them. The darkness,
which ended the struggle, forbade all pursuit. Next day the fight was renewed by fresh French
forces, but a fog hampered their movements, and they fell easy victims to the English. Then
the defeated force retreated to Abbeville. The English loss was insignificant, but the field
was covered with the bravest and noblest of the French. Among those who perished on the side
of Philip were Louis of Nevers, the chivalrous Count of Flanders, who had sacrificed everything
save his honour on the altar of feudal duty, and the blind King John of Bohemia, whose end
was as romantic and futile as his life. Both these princes left as their successors sons of
very different stamp in Louis de Male, and Charles of Moravia. Charles, who had recently been
set up as King of the Romans by the clerical party against Louis of Bavaria, was present at
Crecy, but a prudent retreat saved him from his father's fate.

In the midst of the Norman campaign, Philip urgently besought David, King of Scots, to make
a diversion in his favour. Since 1341 David, then a youth of seventeen, had been back in Scotland.
Prolonged truces gave him little opportunity of trying his skill as a soldier, and his domestic
rule was not particularly successful. The full effects of the Franco-Scottish alliance were
revealed when, early in October, the Scottish king invaded the north of England, confident
that, as all the fighting-men were in France, he would meet no more formidable opponents than
monks, peasants, and shepherds. The five days' resistance of Lord Wake's border peel of Castleton
in Liddesdale showed the baselessness of this imagination. At its capture on October 10, David
put to death its gallant captain, a knight named Walter Selby. Then the Scots streamed over
the hills into Upper Tynedale, and soon devastated Durham. Such of the border lords as were
not with the king in France had now prepared for resistance. Beside the Nevilles, Percys, and
other great houses of the north, the Archbishop of York, William de la Zouch, took a vigorous
part in organising the local levies, and in a very short space of time a sufficient army assembled
to make head against the invaders. From their muster at Richmond, the northern barons marched
into the land of St. Cuthbert, many priests following their archbishop as of old their predecessors
had followed Melton or Thurstan. On October 17 the forces joined battle at Neville's Cross,
a wayside landmark on the Red hills, a rough and broken region sloping down to the Wear, immediately
to the west of the city of Durham. Neither host was large in size, and each stood facing the
other, with the archers at either wing, after the fashion that had become Scottish as well
as English. For a time neither army was willing to begin. At last the English archers, irritated
at the delay, advanced upon the Scots with showers of missiles. Then the struggle grew general
and after a fierce hand-to-hand fight the English prevailed. David was taken prisoner and was
lodged in the Tower, and many of the noblest of the Scots lay dead on the field. The diversion
was a failure; the local levies had proved amply sufficient to cope with the enemy. In thus
playing the game of the French king, David began a policy which, from Neville's Cross to Flodden,
brought embarrassment to England and desolation to Scotland. It was the inevitable penalty
of two independent and hostile states existing in one little island.

So war-worn were the victors of Crecy that all the profit they could win from the battle was
the power to continue their march undisturbed to the sea coast. On September 4, Edward reached
the walls of Calais, the last French town on the frontiers of Flanders, and the port whose
corsairs had inflicted exceptional damage on English shipping during the whole of the war.
With a keen eye to the military importance of the place, the King abandoned the easy course
of returning with his troops to England, and at once sat down before Calais. It was an arduous
and prolonged siege. Calais was girt by double walls and ditches of exceptional strength and
was bravely defended by John de Vienne and a numerous garrison. Moreover the yielding soil
of the sands and marshes around the town made it impossible for Edward to erect against the
fortifications the cumbrous machines by which engineers then sought to batter down the walls
of towns. The only method of taking the place was by starvation. At first Edward was not able
to block every avenue of access to the beleaguered fortress. Winter came on; the troops demanded
permission to go home; the sailors threatened mutiny, and the French were actively on the watch.

Amidst these troubles, Edward III showed a persistence worthy of his grandfather. He remained
at the seat of war, transacting much of the business of government in the town of wooden huts
which, growing up round the besiegers' lines, made the winter siege endurable. In the worst
period of the year sufficient forces to man the trenches could only be secured by wholesale
charters of pardon to felonious and offending soldiers, on condition that they did not withdraw
from service without the king's licence, so long as Edward himself remained beyond the seas.[1]
A parliament of magnates met in March, 1347, and granted an aid. Instead of summoning the commons,
Edward preferred to raise his chief supplies by another loan of 20,000 sacks of wool from the
merchants, by additional customs dues voted by a merchant assembly, and by considerable loans
from ecclesiastics and religious houses. In April and May all England was alive with martial
preparation, and gradually a force far transcending the Crecy army was gathered round the walls
of Calais, while a great fleet held the sea and prohibited the access of French ships to the
doomed garrison. Northampton, ever fertile in expedients, discovered that, even after the high
seas were blocked, boats still crept into Calais port by hugging the shallow shore. He ran
long jetties of piles from the coast line into deep water, and thus cut off the last means
of communication and of supplies. By June the town was suffering severely from famine.

    [1] See for this, Rotulus Normannice in Cal. Patent Rolls,
    1345-48, especially PP. 473-526. For the vast force gathered
    later, see Wrottesley and Morris, U.S.

The French made a great effort, both by sea and land, to relieve Calais. On June 25 Northampton
went out with his ships as far as the mouth of the Somme, where off Le Crotoy he won a naval
victory which made the English command of the sea absolutely secure. A month later Philip,
at the head of the land army, looked down upon the lines of Calais from the heights of Guînes.
The two cardinals made their usual efforts for a truce, but the English would not allow their
prey to be snatched from them at the eleventh hour. Then Philip challenged the enemy to a pitched
battle, and four knights on each side were appointed to select the place of combat. The French,
however, were of no mind to risk another Crecy, and on the morning of July 31 the smoke of
their burning camp told the English that once more Philip had shrunk from a meeting. Then at
last the garrison opened its gates on August 3, 1347. The defenders were treated chivalrously
by the victor, who admired their courage and endurance. But the mass of the population were
removed from their homes, and numerous grants of houses and property made to Englishmen. Edward
resolved to make his conquest an English town, and, from that time onwards, it became the fortress
through which an English army might at any time be poured into France, and the warehouse from
which the spinners and weavers of Flanders were to draw their supplies of raw wool. For more
than two hundred years, English Calais retained all its military and most of its commercial
importance. Later conquests enabled a ring of forts to be erected round it which strengthened
its natural advantages.

Crecy, Neville's Cross, Aiguillon, and Calais did not exhaust the glories of this strenuous
time. The war of the Breton succession, which Northampton had waged since 1345, was continued
in 1346 by Thomas Dagworth, a knight appointed as his lieutenant on his withdrawal to join
the army of Crecy and Calais. The Montfort star was still in the ascendant, and even the hereditary
dominions of Joan of Penthièvre were assailed. An English garrison was established at La Roche
Derien, situated some four miles higher up the river Jaudy than the little open episcopal city
of Tréguier, and communicating by the river with the sea and with England. So troublesome did
Montfort's garrison at La Roche become to the vassals of Penthièvre, that in the summer of
1347 Charles of Blois collected an army, wherein nearly all the greatest feudal houses of Brittany
were strongly represented, and sat down before La Roche. Dagworth, one of the ablest of English
soldiers, was at Carhaix, in the heart of the central uplands, when he heard of the danger
of the single English post within the lands of Penthièvre. He at once hurried northwards, and
on the night of June 19 rested at the abbey of Bégard, about ten miles to the south of La Roche.
From Bégard two roads led to La Roche, one on each bank of the Jaudy. Thinking that Dagworth
would pursue the shorter road on the left bank, Charles of Blois stationed a portion of his
army at some distance from La Roche on that side of the Jaudy, while the rest remained with
himself on the right bank before the walls of the town. Dagworth, however, chose the longer
route, and before daybreak, on the morning of June 20, fell suddenly upon Charles. A fierce
fight in the dark was ended after dawn in favour of Montfort by a timely sally of the beleaguered
garrison. In the confusion Charles forgot to recall the division uselessly stationed beyond
the Jaudy, and this error completed his ruin. Charles fought like a hero, and, after receiving
seventeen wounds, yielded up his sword to a Breton lord rather than to the English commander.
When his wounds were healed, Charles was sent to London, where he joined David of Scotland,
the Count of Eu, and the Lord of Tancarville. It looked as if Montfort's triumph was secured.

In the midst of his successes Edward made a truce, yielding to the earnest request of the cardinals,
"through his reverence to the apostolic see". The truce of Calais was signed on September 28,
and included Scotland and Brittany as well as France within its scope. On October 12 Edward
returned to his kingdom. Financial exhaustion, the need of repose, the unwillingness of his
subjects to continue the combat, and the failure of the Flemish and Netherlandish alliances
sufficiently explain this halt in the midst of victory. Yet from the military standpoint Edward's
action, harmful everywhere to his partisans, was particularly fatal in Brittany, where most
of Penthièvre and nearly all upper Brittany were still obedient to Charles of Blois.[1] But
Edward had embarked upon a course infinitely beyond his material resources. When a special
effort could only give him the one town of Calais, how could he ever conquer all France?

    [1] See on this A. de la Borderie, Hist. de Brétagne, iii.,
    507, et seq.

CHAPTER XVII.

FROM THE BLACK DEATH TO THE TREATY OF CALAIS.

At the conclusion of the truce of Calais in 1347, Edward III and England were at the height
of their military reputation. Perhaps the nation was in even a stronger position than the monarch.
Edward had dissipated his resources in winning his successes, but the danger which faced the
ruler had but slightly impaired the fortunes of his subjects. The country was in a sufficiently
prosperous condition to bear its burdens without much real suffering. The widespread dislike
of extraordinary taxation, which so often assumed the form of the familiar cry that the king
must live of his own, had taken the shape of unwillingness to accept responsibility for the
king's policy and a growing indisposition to meet his demands. But since the rule of Edward
began, England enjoyed a prosperity so unbroken that far heavier burdens would hardly have
brought about a diminution of the well-being which stood in glaring contrast to the desolation
long inflicted by Edward's wars on France. A war waged exclusively on foreign soil did little
harm to England, and offered careers whereby many an English adventurer was gaining a place
among the landed classes. The simple archers and men-at-arms, who received high wages and good
hopes of plunder in the king's foreign service, found in it a congenial and lucrative, if demoralising
profession. In England, though wages were low, provisions were cheap and employment constant.
The growth of the wool trade, then further stimulated by refugees from the "three towns of
Flanders," against which Louis de Male was waging relentless war, was bringing comfort to many,
and riches to a few. The maritime greatness of England that found its first results in the
battle of Sluys was the fruit of a commercial activity on the sea which enabled English shipmen
to deprive the Italians, Netherlanders, and Germans of the overwhelming share they had hitherto
enjoyed of our foreign trade. The dark shadows of medieval life were indeed never absent from
the picture; but medieval England seldom enjoyed greater wellbeing and tranquillity than during
the first eighteen years of the personal rule of Edward III. One sign of the increasing attention
paid to suppressing disorder was an act of 1344, which empowered the local conservators of
the peace, already an element in the administrative machinery, to hear and determine felonies.
A later act made this a part of their regular functions, and gave them the title of justices
of the peace, thus setting up a means of maintaining local order so effective that the old
machinery of the local courts gradually gave way to it.

A rude ending to this period of prosperity was brought about by the devastations of the pestilence
known to modern readers as the Black Death, which since 1347 had decimated the Levant. This
was the bubonic plague, almost as familiar in the east of to-day as in the mid-fourteenth century.
It was brought along the chief commercial highways which bound the western world to the markets
of the east. First introduced into the west at the great ports of the Mediterranean, Venice,
Genoa, Marseilles, it spread over France and Italy by the early months of 1348. Avignon was
a chief centre of the infection, and, amidst the desolation around him, Clement VI. strove
with rare energy to give peace to a distracted world. The regions of western and northern France,
which had felt the full force of the war, were among the worst sufferers. Aquitaine, too, was
cruelly desolated, and among the victims was Edward III.'s daughter, Joan, who perished at
Bordeaux on her way to Castile, as the bride of the prince afterwards infamous as Peter the
Cruel. Early in August, 1348, the scourge crossed the channel, making its first appearance
in England at Weymouth. Thence it spread northwards and westwards. Bristol was the first great
English town to feel its ravages. Though the Gloucestershire men prohibited all intercourse
between the infected port and their own villages, the plague was in no wise stayed by their
precautions. The disease extended, by way of Gloucester and Oxford, to London, reaching the
capital early in November, and continuing its ravages until the following Whitsuntide. When
it had almost died out in London, it began, in the spring of 1349, to rage severely in East
Anglia,[1] while in Lancashire the worst time seems to have been from the autumn of 1349 to
the beginning of 1350.[2] Scotland was so long exempt that the Scots, proud of their immunity,
were wont to swear "by the foul death of England". In 1350 they gathered together an army in
Ettrick forest with the object of invading the plague-stricken border shires. But the pestilence
fell upon the host assembled for the foray, and all war was stopped while Scotland was devastated
from end to end. Ireland began to suffer in August, 1349, the disease being at first confined
to the Englishry of the towns, though, after a time, it made its way also to the pure Irish.[3]

    [1] A. Jessopp, The Black Death in East Anglia, in The
    Coming of the Friars and Other Essays(1889). For general
    details see F. Seebohm, The Black Death, in Fortnightly
    Review (1865 and 1866); J.E.T. Rogers, England before and
    after the Black Death, in Fortnightly Review (1866); F.A.
    Gasquet's Great Pestilence (1893); and C. Creighton, History
    of Epidemics in Britain, i., 114-207(1891).

    [2] A.G. Little, The Black Death in Lancashire, in Engl.
    Hist. Review, v. (1890), 524-30

    [3] See for Ireland, however, the vivid details in J. Clyn of
    Kilkenny, Annales Hibevnia: ad annum 1349, ed. R. Butler,
    Irish Archaological Soc. (1849).

The wild exaggerations of the chroniclers reflect the horror and desolation wrought by the
epidemic. There died so many, we are told, that the survivors scarcely sufficed to bury the
victims, and not one man in ten remained alive. The more moderate estimate of Froissart sets
down the proportion dead of the plague as one in three throughout all Christendom, and some
modern inquirers have rashly reckoned the mortality in England as amounting to a half or a
third of the population. In truth, complete statistics are necessarily wanting, and if the
records of the admissions of the clergy attest that, in certain dioceses, half the livings
changed hands during the years of pestilence, it is not permissible to infer from that circumstance
that there was a similar rate of mortality from the plague over the whole of the population.
The sudden and overwhelming character of the disorder increased the universal terror. One day
a man was healthy: within a few hours of the appearance of the fatal swelling, or of the dark
livid marks which gave the plague its popular name, he was a corpse. The pestilence seemed
to single out the young and robust as its prey, and to spare the aged and sick. The churchyards
were soon overflowing, and special plague pits had to be dug where the dead were heaped up
by the hundred. Comparatively few magnates died, but the poor, the religious, and the clergy
were chief sufferers. The law courts ceased to hold regular sessions. When the people had partially
recovered from the first visitations of the plague, others befel them which were scarcely less
severe. The years 1362 and 1369 almost rivalled the horrors of 1348 and 1349.

The immediate effects of the calamity were overwhelming. At first the horror of the foul death
effaced all other considerations from men's minds. There were not enough priests to absolve
the dying, and special indulgences, with full liberty to choose confessors at discretion, were
promulgated from Avignon and from many diocesan chanceries. The price of commodities fell for
the moment, since there were few, we are told, who cared for riches amidst the general fear
of death. The pestilence played such havoc with the labouring population that the beasts wandered
untended in the pastures, and rich crops of corn stood rotting in the fields from lack of harvesters
to gather them. There was the same lack of clergy as of labourers, and the priest, like the
peasant, demanded a higher wage for his services by reason of the scarcity of labour. A mower
was not to be had for less than a shilling a day with his food, and a chaplain, formerly glad
to receive two marks and his board, demanded ten pounds, or ten marks at the least. Non-residence,
neglect of cures, and other evils followed. As Langland wrote:--

  Persones and parisch prestes - playneth to heore bisschops,
  That heore parisch hath ben pore - seththe the pestilence tyme,
  And asketh leue and lycence - at Londun to dwelle,
  To singe ther for simonye - for seluer is swete.[1]

The lack of clergy was in some measure compensated by the rush of candidates for orders. Some
of these new clerks were men who had lost their wives by the plague; many of them were illiterate,
or if they knew how to read their mass-book, could not understand it. The close social life
of the monasteries proved particularly favourable to the spread of the disease; the number
of monks and nuns declined considerably, and, since there was no great desire to embrace the
religious profession, many houses remained half empty for generations.

    [1] Vision of Piers Plowman, i., p. g, ed. Skeat.

No one in the Middle Ages believed in letting economic laws work out their natural results.
If anything were amiss, it was the duty of kings and princes to set things right. Accordingly
Edward and his council at once strove to remedy the lack of labourers by ordinances that harvesters
and other workmen should not demand more wages than they had been in the habit of receiving,
while the bishops, following the royal example, ordered chaplains and vicars to be content
with their accustomed salaries. As soon as parliament ventured to assemble, the royal orders
were embodied in the famous statute of labourers of 1351. This measure has been condemned as
an attempt of a capitalist parliament to force poor men to work for their masters at wages
far below the market rates. But it was no new thing to fix wages by authority, and the medieval
conception was that a just and living wage should be settled by law, rather than left to accident.
The statute provided that prices, like wages, should remain as they had been before the pestilence,
so that, far from only regarding the interests of the employer, it attempted to maintain the
old ratio between the rate of wages and the price of commodities. Moreover it sought to provide
for the cultivation of the soil by enacting that the sturdy beggar, who, though able, refused
to work, should be forced to put his hand to the plough. Futile as the statute of labourers
was, it was not much more ineffective than most laws of the time. Though real efforts were
made to carry it out, the chronic weakness of a medieval executive soon recoiled before the
hopeless task of enforcing impossible laws on an unwilling population. Class prejudices only
showed themselves in the stipulation that, while the employer was forbidden to pay the new
rate of wages under pain of heavy fines, the labourers who refused, to work on the old terms
were imprisoned and only released upon taking oath to accept their ancient wages. In effect,
however, the king's arm was not long enough to reach either class. The labourers, says a chronicler,
were so puffed up and quarrelsome that they would not observe the new enactment, and the master's
alternative was either to see his crops perish unharvested, or to gratify the greedy desires
of the workmen by violating the statute. While labourers could escape punishment through their
numbers, the employer was more accessible to the royal officers.

Thus the labourers enjoyed the benefits of the scarcity of labour, while the employers suffered
the full inconveniences of the change. Producers were to some extent recompensed by a great
rise in prices, more especially in the case of those commodities into whose cost of production
labour largely entered. For example the rise in the price of corn and meat was inconsiderable,
while clothing, manufactured goods, and luxuries became extraordinarily dear. Of eatables fish
rose most in value, because the fishermen had been swept away by the plague. Rents fell heavily.
Landlords found that they could only retain their tenants by wholesale remissions. When farmers
perished of the plague, it was often impossible to find others to take up their farms. It was
even harder for lords, who farmed their own demesne, to provide themselves with the necessary
labour. Hired labour could not be obtained except at ruinous rates. It was injudicious to press
for the strict performance of villein services, lest the villein should turn recalcitrant and
leave his holding. The lord preferred to commute his villein's service into a small payment.
On the whole the best solution of the difficulty was for him to abandon the ancient custom
of farming his demesne through his bailiffs, and to let out his lands on such rents as he could
get to tenant farmers. Thus the feudal method of land tenure, which, since the previous century,
had ceased to have much political significance, became economically ineffective, and began
to give way to a system more like that which still obtains among us.

Struck by these undoubted results of the pestilence, some modern writers have persuaded themselves
that the Black Death is the one great turning-point in the social and economic history of England,
and that nearly all which makes modern England what it is, is due to the effects of this pestilence.
A wider survey suggests the extreme improbability of a single visitation having such far-reaching
consequences. Moreover the Black Death was not an English but a European calamity, and it is
strange to imagine that the effects of the plague in England should have been so much deeper
than in France or Germany, and so different. In the fourteenth century there was little that
was distinctly insular in the conditions of England, as compared with those of the continent.
A trouble common to both regions alike could hardly have been the starting-point of such differentiation
between them as later ages undoubtedly witnessed. There was a French counterpart to the statute
of labourers.

In truth the Black Death was no isolated phenomenon. There were already in the air the seeds
of the decay of the ancient order, and those seeds fructified more rapidly in England by reason
of the plague.[1] It is only because of the impetus which it gave to changes already in progress
that the pestilence had in a fashion more lasting results in England than elsewhere. The last
thirty years of the reign of Edward were an epoch of social upheaval and unrest contrasting
strongly with the uneventful times that had preceded the Black Death. It is not right to regard
the period as one of misery or severe distress. The war of classes, which was beginning, sprang
not so much from material discomfort of the poor, as from what unsympathetic annalists called
their greediness, their pride, and their wantonness. The wage-earner was master of the situation
and did not hesitate to make his power felt. While the spread of manufactures, the rise of
prices, and the opening out of wider markets still secured the prosperity of the shopkeeper,
the merchant, or the artisan of the towns, the whole brunt of the social change fell upon the
landed classes, and most heavily upon the ecclesiastics and especially upon the monks. Broken
down by the heavy demands of the state, unable to share with the layman in the new avenues
to wealth opened up by the expanding resources of the country, the monks saw the chief sources
of their prosperity drying up. Their rents were shrinking and it became increasingly difficult
to cultivate their lands. They never recovered their ancient welfare, and were already getting
out of touch with the national life.

    [1] See for this W. Cunningham, Growth of English Industry and
    Commerce, vol. i., p. 330 ff. (ed. 4); T.W. Page, The End of
    Villainage in England (American Economic Association, 1900);
    and, above all, P. Vinogradoff in Engl. Hist. Review, xv.
    (1900), 774-781.

One immediate result of the plague was a renewed activity in founding religious houses. Upon
the two plague pits west and east of the city of London, Sir Walter Manny set up his Charterhouse
in Smithfield, and Edward III. his foundation for Cistercian nuns between Tower Hill and Aldgate.
More characteristic of the times was the foundation of secular colleges, which were established
either with mainly ecclesiastical objects or to encourage study at the universities. Both at
Oxford and Cambridge there were more colleges set up in the first than in the second half of
the fourteenth century; and it is noteworthy that several Cambridge colleges incorporated after
the plague were founded with the avowed motive of filling up the gaps in the secular clergy
occasioned by it. The riots between the Oxford townsmen and the clerks of the university on
St. Scholastica's day, 1354, resulted in the victory of the former because of the recent diminution
in the number of the scholars. Yet even as regards the monasteries, it is easy to exaggerate
the effects of the plague. Five years after the Black Death, the Cistercians of the Lancashire
abbey of Whalley boasted that they had added twenty monks to their convent, and were busy in
enlarging their church.[1]

    [1] Cal. Papal Registers, Petitions, i., 264. Professor Tait,
    however, informs me that the monks took a sanguine view of
    their numbers. After the plague of 1362, we know that they were
    not much more numerous than in the previous century.

Change was in the air in religion as well as in society. Along with democratic ideas filtering
in with the exiles from the great Flemish cities, came a breath of that restless and unquiet
spirit which soon awakened the concern of the inquisition in the Netherlands. There brotherhoods,
some mystical and quietistic, others enthusiastic and fanatical, were growing in numbers and
importance. Some of these bodies, Beguines, Beghards, and what not, were harmless enough, but
the whole history of the Middle Ages bears testimony to the readiness with which religious
excitement unchastened by discipline or direction, grew into dangerous heresy. The strangest
of the new communities, the Flagellants, made its appearance in England immediately after the
pestilence. In the autumn of 1349, some six score men crossed over from Holland and marched
in procession through the open spaces of London, chanting doleful litanies in their own tongue.
They wore nothing save a linen cloth that covered the lower part of their body, and on their
heads hats marked with a red cross behind and before. Each of them bore in his right hand a
scourge, with which he belaboured the naked back and shoulders of his comrade in the fore rank.
Twice a day they repeated this mournful exercise, and even at other times were never seen in
public but with cap on head and discipline in hand. Few Englishmen joined the Flagellants,
but their appearance is not unworthy of notice as the first concrete evidence of the religious
unrest which soon became more widespread. Before long the Yorkshireman, John Wycliffe, was
studying arts at the little north-country foundation of the Balliols at Oxford, and John Ball,
the Essex priest, was preaching his revolutionary socialism to the villeins. "We are all come,"
said he, "from one father and one mother, Adam and Eve. How can the gentry show that they are
greater lords than we?"[1] In 1355 there were heretics in the diocese of York who maintained
that it is impossible to merit eternal life by good works, and that original sin does not deserve
damnation.[2]

    [1] The sentiment, or its equivalent in Ball's famous distich,
    was not new; it was employed for mystical purposes in Richard
    Rolle's

      "When Adam delf and Eue span, spir, if thou wil spede,
      Whare was then the pride of man, that now merres his mede?"

    Library of Early English Writers. Richard Rolle of Hampole and
    his followers, ed. Horstman, i., 73 (1895).

    [2] Cal. Papal Registers, Letters, iii., 565.

The Flagellants were denounced as heretics by Clement VI.; the Archbishop of York proceeded
against the northern heretics, and in 1366 the Archbishop of Canterbury forbade John Ball's
preaching. But there were more insidious, because more measured, enemies of the Church than
a handful of fanatics. The English were long convinced that the Avignon popes were playing
the game of the French adversary, and Clement VI.'s efforts for peace never had a fair hearing.
Since the beginning of the war, the king laid his hand on the alien priories, and, though in
his scrupulous regard for clerical rights he had allowed the monks to remain in possession,
he diverted the stream of tribute from the French mother houses to his own treasury. Bolder
measures against papal provisions were taken in the years which immediately followed the pestilence.
Finding remonstrances futile, the parliament of 1351, which passed the statute of labourers,
enacted also the first statute of provisors. It recited that the anti-papal statute of Carlisle
of 1307 was still law, and that the king had sworn to observe it. It claimed for all electing
bodies and patrons the right to elect or to present freely to the benefices in their gift.
It declared invalid all appointments brought about by way of papal provision. Provisors who
had accepted appointments from Avignon were to be arrested. If convicted, they were to be detained
in prison, until they had made their peace with the king, and found surely not to accept provisions
in the future, and also not to seek their reinstatement by any process in the Roman curia.
Two years later this measure was supplemented by the first statute of præmunire, which enacted
that those who brought matters cognisable in the king's courts before foreign courts should
be liable to forfeiture and outlawry. Though the papal court is not specially mentioned, it
is clear that this measure was aimed against it.

General measures proving insufficient, more specific legislation soon followed. In 1365 a fresh
statute of præmunire was drawn up on the initiative of the crown, enacting that all who obtained
citations, offices, or benefices from the Roman court should incur the penalties prescribed
by the act of 1353. The prelates dissociated themselves from so stringent a law, but did not
actively oppose it. When in 1366, Edward requested the guidance of the estates as to how he
was to deal with the demand of Urban V. for the arrears of King John's tribute, withheld altogether
for more than thirty years, the prelates joined the lay estates in answering that neither John
nor any one else could put the realm into subjection without their consent. Even the ancient
offering of Peter's pence ceased to be paid for the rest of Edward's reign. If these laws had
been strictly carried out, the papal authority in England would have been gravely circumscribed.
But medieval laws were too often the mere enunciations of an ideal. The statutes of provisors
and præmunire were as little executed as were the statutes of labourers, or as some elaborate
sumptuary legislation passed by the parliament of 1363. The catalogue of acts of papal interference
in English ecclesiastical and temporal affairs is as long after the passing of these laws as
before. Litigants still carried their suits to Avignon: provisions were still issued nominating
to English benefices, and Edward himself set the example of disregarding his own laws by asking
for the appointment of his ministers to bishoprics by way of papal provision. Papal ascendency
was too firmly rooted in the fourteenth century to be eradicated by any enactment. To the average
clergyman or theologian of the day the pope was still the "universal ordinary," the one divinely
appointed source of ecclesiastical authority, the shepherd to whom the Lord had given the commission
to feed His sheep. This theory could only be overcome by revolution; and the parliaments and
ministers of Edward III. were in no wise of a revolutionary temper.

The anti-papal laws of the fourteenth century were the acts of the secular not of the ecclesiastical
power. They were not simply anti-papal, they were also anti-clerical in their tendency, since
to the men of the age an attack on the pope was an attack on the Church. No doubt the English
bishop at Edward's court sympathised with his master's dislike of foreign ecclesiastical interference,
and the English priest was glad to be relieved from payments to the curia. But the clergyman,
whose soul grew indignant against the curialists, still believed that the pope was the divinely
appointed autocrat of the Church universal. Being a man, a pope might be a bad pope; but the
faithful Christian, though he might lament and protest, could not but obey in the last resort.
The papacy was so essentially interwoven with the whole Church of the Middle Ages, that few
figments have less historical basis than the notion that there was an anti-papal Anglican Church
in the days of the Edwards. However, before another generation had passed away, ecclesiastical
protests began.

Monasticism no less than the papacy was of the very essence of the Church of the Middle Ages.
Yet the monastic ideal had no longer the force that it had in previous generations, and even
the latest embodiments of the religious life had declined from their original popularity. Pope
John XXII. himself, in his warfare against William of Ockham and the Spiritual Franciscans
who had supported Louis of Bavaria, denied in good round terms the Franciscan doctrine of "evangelical
poverty". Ockham was now dead, and with him perished the last of the great cosmopolitan schoolmen,
of whose birth indeed England might boast, but who early forsook Oxford for Paris. Conspicuous
among the younger academical generation was Richard Fitzralph, Archbishop of Armagh, whose
bitter attacks on the fundamental principles underlying the mendicant theory of the regular
life are indicative of the changing temper of the age. A distinguished Oxford scholar, a learned
and pungent writer, a popular preacher, a reputed saint, and a good friend of the pope, Fitzralph
made himself, about 1357, the champion of the secular clergy against the friars by writing
a treatise to prove that absolute poverty was neither practised nor commended by the apostles.[1]
The indignant mendicants procured the archbishop's citation to Avignon, and it was a striking
proof of the ineffectiveness of recent legislation that Edward III. allowed him to plead his
cause before the curia. By 1358 the friars gained the day, but their efforts to get Fitzralph's
opinions condemned were frustrated by his death in 1360. Fitzralph had the sympathy not only
of the seculars, but of the "possessioners," or property-holding monks.

    [1] See his De Pauperie Salvatoris, lib. i.-iv., printed by
    R.L. Poole, as appendix to Wycliffe, De Dominio Divino.

The period of experiments in economic and anti-clerical legislation was also marked by other
important new laws, such as the ordinance of the staple of 1354, providing that wool, leather,
and other commodities were only to be sold at certain staple towns, a measure soon to be modified
by the law of 1362, which settled the staple at Calais; the ordinance of 1357 for the government
of Ireland, to which later reference will be made; the statute making English the language
of the law courts in 1362, and a drastic act against purveyance in 1365. The statute of treasons
of 1352, which laid down seven several offences as alone henceforth to be regarded as treason,
also demands attention. Its classification is rude and unsystematic. While the slaying of the
king's ministers or judges, and the counterfeiting of the great seal or the king's coin, are
joined with the compassing the death of the king or his wife or heir, adherence to the king's
enemies, the violation of the queen or the king's eldest daughter, as definite acts of treason,
its omission to brand other notable indications of disloyally as traitorous, inspired the judges
of later generations to elaborate the doctrine of constructive treason in order to extend in
practice the scope of the act. It was, however, an advance for nobles and commons to have set
any limitations whatever to the wide power claimed by the courts of defining treason.

Partial respite from war did not diminish the martial ardour of the king and his nobles. The
period of the Black Death was precisely the time when Edward completed a plan which he had
begun by the erection of his Round Table at Windsor in 1344. By 1348 he instituted a chapel
at Windsor, dedicated to St. George, served by a secular chapter, and closely connected with
a foundation for the support of poor knights. Within a year this foundation also included the
famous Order of the Garter, the type and model of all later orders of chivalry. On St. George's
day the king celebrated the new institution by special solemnities. The most famous of his
companions-at-arms were associated with him as founders and first knights. Clad in russet coats
sprinkled with blue garters, a blue garter on the right leg, and a mantle of blue ornamented
with little shields bearing the arms of St. George, the Knights of the Garter heard mass sung
by the Archbishop of Canterbury in St. George's chapel, and then feasted solemnly in their
common hall. Ten years later the glorification of the king's birthplace was completed by the
erection of new quarters for the king, more sumptuous and splendid than were elsewhere to be
seen. The fame of the Knights of the Garter excited the emulation of King John of France, who
set up a Round Table which grew in 1351 into the knightly Order of the Star.

The rival brethren of the Garter and the Star found plenty of opportunities of demonstrating
their prowess. Though between 1347 and 1355 there was, so far as forms went, an almost continuous
armistice for the space of eight years, its effect was not so much to stop fighting as to limit
its scale. In reality the years of nominal truce were a period of harassing warfare in Brittany,
the Calais march, Gascony, and the narrow seas, which even the ravages of the Black Death did
not stop.

In Brittany affairs were in a wretched condition. The nominal duke, John, was a child brought
up in England under the guardianship of Edward III. Edward was not in a position to spend either
men or money upon Brittany. As an easy way of discharging his obligations to his ward, he handed
over the duchy to Sir Thomas Dagworth, the governor, who maintained the war from local resources
and had a free hand as regards his choice of agents and measures. In return for power to appropriate
to his own purposes the revenues of the duchy, Dagworth undertook the custody of the fortresses,
the payment of the troops, the expenses of the administration, and the conduct of the war.
In short, Brittany was leased out to him as a speculation, like a farm left derelict of husbandmen
after the Black Death. Dagworth sublet to the highest bidders the lordships, fortresses, and
towns of Brittany. He established at various centres of his influence a military adventurer,
whose chief business was to make war support war and, moreover, bring in a good profit. The
consequences were disastrous. Dagworth's captains were for the most part Englishmen, men of
character, energy, and resources, but utterly without scruples and with no other ambition than
to raise a good revenue and maintain themselves in authority. The most famous of them were
members of gentle but obscure houses, whose poverty debarred them from the ordinary avenues
to fame and fortune, and whose vigour and ability made good use of their exceptional positions.
Two Cheshire kinsmen, Hugh Calveley and Robert Knowles, thus won, each for himself, a place
in history. Some of the adventurers were of obscurer origin, some were foreigners, German,
French, or Netherlandish, and some few Breton gentlemen of Montfort's faction. Of these Crockart,
the German, and Raoul de Caours, the Breton, were the most famous.

The results of the system bore heavily on the Breton peasantry. Each lord of a castle levied
systematic blackmail on the neighbouring parishes. These payments, called ransoms, were exacted
as a condition of protection. The governor, though severely maltreating those who neglected
to pay their ransom, did little to save his dependants from the ravages of the partisans of
Charles of Blois. Despite such misdeeds, the war of partisans was brightened by many feats
of heroism. The friends of Charles of Blois disregarded the truce and waged war as well as
they could. Among them was already conspicuous the son of a nobleman of the neighbourhood of
Dinan, the ugly, able, restless Bertrand du Guesclin, whose enterprise and valour won for him
a great local reputation. In 1350 Dagworth was slain. The history of the following years is
not to be found in the acts of his successor, Sir Walter Bentley, but in the private deeds
of daring of the heroes of both sides. Conspicuous among these is the famous Battle of the
Thirty, well known from the detailed narrative of Froissart, and the stirring verses of a contemporary
French poem. This fight was fought on March 27, 1351, between thirty Breton gentlemen of the
Blois faction, drawn from the garrison of Josselin, and a less noble but even more strenuous
band of thirty English and other adventurers of the Montfort party, from the garrison of Ploermel,
seven miles to the east. Beaumanoir, the commandant at Josselin, had been moved to indignation
at the cruel treatment of peasants who had refused to pay ransom by Robert Bembro, the commander
of Ploermel. He challenged the tyrant to combat, and thirty heroes of each party fought out
their quarrel at a spot marked by the half-way oak, equidistant from the two garrisons. After
a long struggle, in which Bembro was slain, victory fell to the men from Josselin. Among the
vanquished were Knowles, Calveley, and Crockart. This fight had absolutely no influence on
the fortune of the war.

In 1352 the French strove to carry on the Breton war on a grander scale, and a large army,
commanded by Guy of Nesle, marshal of France, was sent to reinforce the partisans of Charles
of Blois. They met Bentley at Mauron, a few miles north of Ploermel, where one of the most
interesting battles of the war was fought Taught by the lesson of Crecy, Nesle had already,
in obscure fights in Poitou, ordered the French knights and men-at-arms to fight on foot.[1]
He here adopted the same plan for the first time in a battle of importance, but, after a severe
struggle, Bentley won the day. In 1353 Edward III. made a treaty with his captive, Charles
of Blois. In return for a huge ransom Charles was to obtain his liberty, be recognised as Duke
of Brittany, marry one of Edward's daughters, and promise to remain neutral in the Anglo-French
struggle. The treaty involved too great a dislocation of policy to be carried out. Charles,
after visiting Brittany, renounced the compact and returned to his London prison. Thus the
weary war of partisans still went on, and thenceforth the fortunes of Charles depended less
upon negotiations than on the growing successes of Bertrand du Guesclin.

    [1] See my paper on Some Neglected Fights between Crecy and
    Poitiers in Engl. Hist. Review, vol. xxi., Oct., 1905.

During these years Calais was the centre of much fighting. Eager to win back the town, the
French bribed an Italian mercenary, then in Edward's service, to admit them into the castle.
The plot was discovered, and Edward and the Prince of Wales crossed over in disguise to help
in frustrating the French assault. The French were enticed into Calais and taken as in a trap.
Edward then sallied out of the town, and rashly engaged in personal encounter with a more numerous
enemy. He was unexpectedly successful, and made wonderful display of his prowess as a knight.
In revenge, the English devastated the neighbouring country by raids like that led by the Duke
of Lancaster in 1351, which spread desolation from Thérouanne to Etaples. Of more enduring
importance were the gradual extensions of the English pale by the piecemeal conquest of the
fortresses of the neighbourhood. The chief step in this direction was the capture of Guînes
in 1352. An archer named John Dancaster, who escaped from French custody in Guînes, led his
comrades to the assault of the town by a way which he learnt during his imprisonment. The attack
succeeded, and Dancaster, to avoid involving his master in a formal breach of the truce, professed
to hold the town on his own account and to be willing to sell it to the highest bidder. Of
course the highest bidder was Edward III. himself, and thus Guînes became the southern outpost
of the Calais march.

In Aquitaine and Languedoc there was no thought of repose. In 1349 Lancaster led a foray to
the gates of Toulouse, which wrought immense damage but led to no permanent results. There
was incessant border warfare. The Anglo-Gascon forces spread beyond the limits of Edward's
duchy and captured outposts in Poitou, Périgord, Quercy, and the Agenais. In retaliation, the
Count of Armagnac, a strong upholder of the French cause, did what mischief he could in those
parts of Gascony adjacent to his own territories. On the whole the result of these struggles
was a considerable extension of the English power.

The most famous episode of these years was a naval battle fought off Winchelsea on August 29,
1350, against a strong fleet of Spanish privateers commanded by Charles of La Cerda. The Spaniards
having plundered English wine ships, Edward summoned a fleet to meet them, and himself went
on board, along with the Prince of Wales, Lancaster, and many of his chief nobles. The fight
that ensued was remarkable not more for the reckless valour of the king and his nobles than
for the dexterity of the English tactics. The great busses of Spain towered above the little
English vessels, like castles over cottages. Yet the English did not hesitate to grapple their
adversaries' craft and swarm up their sides on to the decks. Edward captured one of the chief
of the Spanish ships, though his own vessel, the Cog Thomas, was so severely damaged that it
had to be hastily abandoned for its prize. The glory of the victory of the "Spaniards on the
sea" kept up the fame first won at Sluys.

In these years of truce first appeared the worst scourge of the war, bands of mercenary soldiers,
fighting on their own account and recklessly devastating the regions which they chose to visit.
The cry for peace rose higher than ever. Innocent VI., who succeeded Clement VI. in 1352, took
up with great energy the papal policy of mediation. Thanks to his legates' good offices, preliminary
articles of peace were actually agreed upon on April 6, 1354, at Guînes. By them Edward agreed
to renounce his claim to the French throne if he were granted full sovereignly over Guienne,
Ponthieu, Artois, and Guînes. When the chamberlain, Burghersh, laid before parliament, which
was then sitting, the prospect of peace, "the commons with one accord replied that, whatever
course the king and the magnates should take as regards the said treaty, was agreeable to them.
On this reply the chamberlain said to the commons: 'Then you wish to agree to a perpetual treaty
of peace, if one can be had?' And the said commons answered unanimously, 'Yea, yea'."[1] Vexatious
delays, however, supervened, and at last the negotiations broke down hopelessly. The French
refused to surrender their over-lordship over the ceded provinces, and the Easter parliament
of 1355 agreed with the king that war must be renewed. Two years of war were to follow more
fierce than even the struggles which had culminated in Crecy, La Roche, and Calais.

    [1] Rot. Pad., ii., 262.

Two expeditions were organised to invade France in the summer of 1355, one for Aquitaine under
the Prince of Wales,[1] and the other for Normandy under Lancaster. Westerly winds long prevented
their despatch. It was not until September that the Prince of Wales reached Bordeaux. The change
of wind, which bore the prince to Gascony, enabled the host, collected by the King and Lancaster
on the Thames, to make its way to Normandy. But the special reason which brought the English
thither was already gone. The expedition was planned to co-operate with the King of Navarre.
Charles, surnamed the Bad, traced on his father's side his descent to that son of Philip the
Bold who obtained the county of Evreux in upper Normandy for his appanage. From his mother,
the daughter of Louis X., he derived his kingdom of Navarre and a claim on the French monarchy
of the same type as that of Edward III. Cunning, plausible, unscrupulous, and violent, Charles
had quarrelled fiercely with King John, whose daughter he had married. His vast estates in
Normandy made him a valuable ally to Edward, and he had suggested joint action in that duchy
against the French. Unluckily, while the west winds kept the English fleet beyond the Straits
of Dover, John made terms with his son-in-law. Lancaster was compensated for his disappointment
by the governorship of Brittany. The army equipped for the Norman expedition was diverted to
Calais, whence in November, Edward and Lancaster led a purposeless foray in the direction of
Hesdin, which hastily ended on the arrival of the news that the Scots had surprised the town
of Berwick, and were threatening its castle. Thereupon Edward hastened back home. He had to
keep the Scots quiet, before he could attack the French.

    [1] For the Black Prince's career in Aquitaine, see Moisant,
    Le Prince Noir en Aquitaine (1894)

When the Black Prince reached Bordeaux, he received a warm welcome from the Gascons, and at
once set out at the head of an army, partly English and partly Gascon, on a foray into the
enemy's territory. He made his way from Bazas to the upper Adour through the county of Armagnac,
whose lord had incurred his wrath by his devotion to the house of Valois and his invasions
of the Gascon duchy. Thence he worked eastwards, avoiding the greater towns, and plundering
and devastating wherever he could. The Count of Armagnac, the French commander in the south,
watched his progress from Toulouse, and prudently avoided any open encounter. The prince approached
within a few miles of the capital of Languedoc, but found an easier prey in the rich towns
and fertile plains in the valley of the Aude. He captured the "town" of Carcassonne, though
he failed to reduce the fortress-crowned height of the "city". At Narbonne also he took the
"town" and left the "city". His progress spread terror throughout the south, and the clerks
of the university of Montpellier and the papal curia at Avignon trembled lest he should continue
his raid in their direction. But November came, and Edward found it prudent to retire, choosing
on his westward journey a route parallel to that which he had previously adopted. He had achieved
his real purpose in desolating the region from which the French had derived the chief resources
for their attacks on Gascony. The raiders boasted that Carcassonne was larger than York, Limoux
not less great than Carcassonne, and Narbonne nearly as populous as London. Over this fair
region, where wine and oil were more abundant than water, the black band of desolation, which
had already marked so many of the fairest provinces of France, was cruelly extended.

The prince kept his Christmas at Bordeaux. Even during the winter his troops remained active.
Most of the Agenais was conquered by January, 1356, while in February the capture of Périgueux
opened up the way of invasion northwards. Meanwhile the prince mustered his forces for a vigorous
summer campaign. While the towns on the Isle and the Lot were yielding to his son, Edward III.
was avenging the capture of Berwick by a winter campaign in the Lothians. Before the end of
January, 1356, Berwick was once more in his hands. Thence he passed to Roxburgh, where Edward
Balliol surrendered to him all his rights over the Scottish throne. Thenceforth styling himself
no longer overlord but King of Scotland, Edward mercilessly harried his new subjects. But storms
dispersed the English victualling ships, and Edward's men could not live in winter on the country
that they had made a wilderness. In a few weeks they were back over the border, though their
raid was long remembered in Scottish tradition as the Burnt Candlemas.

Another breach between Charles of Navarre and his father-in-law again opened to the English
the way to Normandy. John lost patience at Charles's renewed intrigues, and in April arrested
him and his friends at Rouen. Thereupon his brother, Philip of Navarre, rose in revolt. With
him were many of the Norman lords, including Geoffrey of Harcourt, lord of Saint-Sauveur. The
English were once more invited to Normandy, and on June 18 Lancaster landed at La Hougue with
the double mission of aiding the Norman rebels and establishing John of Montfort, then arrived
at man's estate, in his Breton duchy. It was the first English invasion of northern France
during the war, in which they had, as in Brittany, the co-operation of a strong party in the
land. The Navarre and Harcourt influence at once secured them the Côtentin. Meanwhile, however,
the French were besieging the fortresses of the county of Evreux. With the object of relieving
this pressure, Lancaster, immediately after his landing, marched into the heart of Normandy,
and soon reached Verneuil. It looked for the moment as if he were destined to emulate the exploits
of Edward II. in 1346. But he abruptly turned back, leaving the county of Evreux to fall into
French hands. The permanent result of his intervention was to reduce Normandy to a state of
anarchy nearly as complete as that of Brittany. In the autumn Lancaster at last made his way
to the land of which he had had nominal charge since the previous year. He left Philip of Navarre
as commander in Normandy, and the war was supported from local resources. The Côtentin being
in friendly hands, Lancaster attacked the strongholds of the Blois party, which had hitherto
been exempt from the war. In October he laid siege to Rennes and was detained before its walls
until July, 1357, when he agreed to desist from the attack in return for a huge ransom. Lancaster
then established young Montfort as duke. At the same time Charles of Blois, released from his
long imprisonment, once more reappeared in his wife's inheritance, though, as his ransom was
still but partly paid, his scrupulous honour compelled him to abstain from personal intervention
in the war. Thus Brittany got back both her dukes.

The northern operations in 1356 sink into insignificance when compared with the exploits of
the Black Prince in the south. After the capture of Périgueux, there had been some idea of
the prince making a northward movement and joining hands with Lancaster on the Loire. When
Lancaster retired from Verneuil, however, the Black Prince was still in the valley of the Dordogne.
Even when all was ready, attacks on the Gascon duchy compelled him to divert a large portion
of his army for the defence of his own frontiers. Not until August 9 was he able to advance
from Périgueux to Brantôme into hostile territory. It was a month too late to co-operate with
Lancaster, and the 7,000 men, who followed his banners, were in equipment rather prepared for
a raid than for a systematic conquest.

Edward's outward march was in a generally northerly direction. Leaving Limoges on his right,
he crossed the Vienne lower down the stream, and thence he led his troops over the Creuse at
Argenton and over the Indre at Châteauroux. When he traversed the Cher at Vierzon, his followers
rejoiced that they had at last got out of the limits of the ancient duchy of Guienne and were
invading the actual kingdom of France. On penetrating beyond the Cher into the melancholy flats
of the Sologne, the prince encountered the first serious resistance. He then turned abruptly
to the west, and chased the enemy into the strong castle of Romorantin, which he captured on
September 3. There he heard that John of France, who had gathered together a huge force, was
holding the passages over the Loire. Edward marched to meet the enemy, and on September 7 reached
the neighbourhood of Tours, where he tarried in his camp for three days. But the few bridges
were destroyed or strongly guarded, and the men-at-arms found it quite impossible to make their
way over the broad and swift Loire. Moreover the news came that John had crossed the river
near Blois, and was hurrying southwards. Thereupon the Black Prince turned in the same direction,
seeing in this southward march his best chance of getting to close quarters. The French host
was enormously the superior in numbers, but after Morlaix, Mauron, and Crecy, mere numerical
disparity weighed but lightly on an English commander.

For some days the armies marched in the same direction in parallel lines, neither knowing very
clearly the exact position of the other. On September 14 Edward reached Châtelherault on the
Vienne. His troops were weary and war-worn, and his transport inordinately swollen by spoils.
He rested two days at Châtelherault, but was again on the move on hearing that the enemy was
at Chauvigny, situated some twenty miles higher up the Vienne. Edward at once started in pursuit,
only to find that the French had retired before him to Poitiers, eighteen miles due west of
Chauvigny. Careless of his convoy, he hurried across country in the hope of catching the elusive
enemy, but was only in time to fight a rear-guard skirmish at a manor named La Chaboterie,
on the road from Chauvigny to Poitiers, on September, 17. That night the English lay in a wood
hard by the scene of action, suffering terribly from want of water. Next day, Sunday, September
18, Edward pursued the French as near as he could to Poitiers, halting in battle array within
a league of the town. A further check on his impatience now ensued. Innocent VI.'s legate,
the Cardinal Talleyrand, brother of the Count of Périgord, who was with the French army, crossed
to the rival host with an offer of mediation. Edward received the cardinal courteously and
spent most of the day in negotiations. But the French showed no eagerness to bring matters
to a conclusion, and as every hour reinforcements poured into the enemy's camp the scanty patience
of the English was exhausted. They declared that the legate's talk about saving the effusion
of Christian blood was only a blind to gain time, so that the French might overwhelm them.
Edward broke off the negotiations, and, retiring to a position more remote from the enemy,
passed the night quietly. Early next morning the cardinal again sought to treat, but this time
his offers were rejected. On his withdrawal, the French attack began.

The topographical details of the battle of Poitiers of September 19, 1356, cannot be determined
with certainty. We only know that the place of the encounter was called Maupertuis, which is
generally identified with a farm now called La Cardinerie, some six miles south-east of Poitiers,
and a little distance to the north of the Benedictine abbey of Nouaille. The abbey formed the
southern limit of the field. On the west the place of combat was skirted by the little river
Miausson, which winds its way through marshes in a deep-cut valley, girt by wooded hills. The
French left their horses at Poitiers, having resolved, perhaps on the advice of a Scottish
knight, Sir William Douglas, to fight on foot, after the English and Scottish fashion, and
as they had already fought at Mauron and elsewhere. As at Mauron, a small band of cavalry was
retained, both for the preliminary skirmishing which then usually heralded a battle, and in
the hope of riding down some of the archers. But the French did not fully understand the English
tactics, and took no care to combine men-at-arms with archers or crossbowmen, though these
were less important against an army weak in archers and largely consisting of Gascons. Of the
four "battles" the first, under the Marshals Audrehem and Clermont, included the little cavalry
contingent; the second was under Charles, Duke of Normandy, a youth of nineteen; the third
under the Duke of Orleans, the king's brother; and the rear was commanded by the king.

The English army spent the night before the battle beyond the Miausson, but in the morning
the prince, fearing an ambuscade behind the hill of Nouaillé on the east bank, abandoned his
original position and crossed the stream in order to occupy it. He divided his forces into
three "battles," led respectively by himself, Warwick, and William Montague, since 1343 by
his father's death Earl of Salisbury. Though he found no enemy there, he remained with his
"battle" on the hill, because it commanded the slopes to the north over on which the French
were now advancing. His remote position threw the brunt of the fighting upon the divisions
of Warwick and Salisbury. They were stationed side by side in advance of him on ground lower
than that held by him, but higher than that of the enemy, and beset with bushes and vineyards
which sloped down on the left towards the marshes of the Miausson. Some distance in front of
their position, a long hedge and ditch divided the upland, on which the "battles" of Warwick
and Salisbury were stationed, from the fields in which the French were arrayed. At its upper
end, remote from the Miausson, where Salisbury's command lay, the hedge was broken by a gap
through which a farmer's track connected the fields on each side of it. The first fighting
began when the English sent a small force of horsemen through the gap to engage with the French
cavalry beyond. While Audrehem, on the French right, suspended his attack to watch the result,
Clermont made his way straight for the gap, hoping to take Salisbury's division, on the upper
or right-hand station, in flank. Before he reached the gap, however, he found the hedge and
the approaches to the cart-road held in force by the English archers. Meanwhile the mail-clad
men and horses of Audrehem's cavalry had approached dangerously near the left of the English
line, where Warwick was stationed. Their complete armour made riders and steeds alike impervious
to the English arrows, until the prince, seeing from his hill how things were proceeding, ordered
some archers to station themselves on the marshy ground near the Miausson, in advance of the
left flank of the English army. From this position they shot at the unprotected parts of the
French horses, and drove the little band of cavalry from the field. By that time Clermon's
attack on the gap had been defeated, and so both sections of the first French division retired.

Then came the stronger "battle" of the eldest son of the French king. The fight grew more fierce,
and for a long time the issue remained doubtful. The English archers exhausted their arrows
to little purpose, and the dismounted French men-at-arms, offering a less sure mark than the
horsemen, forced their way to the English ranks and fought a desperate hand-to-hand conflict
with them. At last the Duke of Normandy's followers were driven back. Thereupon a panic seized
the division commanded by the Duke of Orleans, which fled from the field without measuring
swords with the enemy. The victors themselves were in a desperate plight. Many were wounded,
and all were weary, especially the men-at-arms encased in heavy plate mail. The flight of Orleans
gave them a short respite: but they soon had to face the assault of the rear battle of the
enemy, gallantly led by the king. "No battle," we are told, "ever lasted so long. In former
fights men knew, by the time that the fourth or the sixth arrow had been discharged, on which
side victory was to be. But here a single archer shot with coolness a hundred arrows, and still
neither side gave way."[1] At last the bowmen had only the arrows they snatched from the bodies
of the dead and dying, and when these were exhausted, they were reduced to throwing stones
at their foes, or to struggle in the mêlée, with sword and buckler, side by side with the men-at-arms.
But the Black Prince from his hill had watched the course of the encounter, and at the right
moment, when his friends were almost worn out, marched down, and made the fight more even.
Before joining himself in the engagement, Edward had ordered the Captal de Buch, the best of
his Gascons, to lead a little band, under cover of the hill, round the French position and
attack the enemy in the rear. At first the Anglo-Gascon army was discouraged, thinking that
the captal had fled, but they still fought on. Suddenly the captal and his men assaulted the
French rear. This settled the hard fought day. Surrounded on every side, the French perished
in their ranks or surrendered in despair. King John was taken prisoner, fighting desperately
to the last, and with him was captured his youngest son Philip, the future Duke of Burgundy,
a boy of twelve, whose epithet of "the Bold" was earned by his precocious valour in the struggle.
Before nightfall the English host had sole possession of the field, and the best fought, best
directed, and most important of the battles of the war ended in the complete triumph of the
invaders.

    [1] Eulogium Hist., iii., 225.

As after Crecy, the victors were too weak to continue the campaign. Next day they began their
slow march back to their base. On October 2 Edward reached Libourne, and a few days later conducted
the captive king into the Gascon capital. They were soon followed by the Cardinal Talleyrand
on whose insistence the prince agreed to resume negotiations. On March 23, 1357, a truce to
last until 1359 was arranged at Bordeaux. On May 24 the prince led the vanquished king through
the streets of London.

The English, weary of the burden of war, strove to use their advantages to procure a stable
peace. Though Charles of Blois was released, he was muzzled for the future, and when John joined
his ally David Bruce in the Tower, it was the obvious game of Edward to exact terms from his
prisoners. David's spirit was broken, and he was glad to accept a treaty sealed in October,
1357, at Berwick, by which he was released for a ransom of 100,000 marks, to be paid by ten
yearly instalments. The task was harder for a poor country like Scotland than the redemption
of Richard I. had been for England. On hostages being given, David was released, and Edward,
without relinquishing his own pretensions to be King of Scots, took no steps to enforce his
claim. The event showed that Edward knew his man. The instalments of ransom could not be regularly
paid, and David never became free from his obligations. Nothing save the tenacity of the Scottish
nobles prevented him from accepting Edward's proposals to write off the arrears of his ransom
in return for his accepting either the English king himself or his son, Lionel of Antwerp,
as heir of Scotland. This attitude brought David into conflict with his natural heir, Robert,
the Steward of Scotland, the son of his sister Margaret. The tension between uncle and nephew
forced the Scots king to remain on friendly terms with Edward. For the rest of the reign, Scottish
history was occupied by aristocratic feuds, by financial expedients for raising the king's
ransom, by the gradual development of the practice of entrusting the powers of parliament to
those committees of the estates subsequently famous as the lords of the articles, by David's
matrimonial troubles after Joan's death, and by his unpopular visits to the court of his neighbour.
Warfare between the realms there was none, save for the chronic border feuds. When David died
in 1371, the Steward of Scotland land mounted the throne as Robert II. This first of the Stewart
kings went back to the policy of the French alliance, but was too weak to inflict serious mischief
on England.

In January, 1358, preliminaries of peace were also arranged with the captive King of France,
and sent to Paris and Avignon for ratification. Innocent VI. was overjoyed at his success,
and Frenchmen were willing to make any sacrifices to bring back their monarch, for immediately
after Poitiers a storm of disorder burst over France. The states general met a few weeks after
the battle, and the regent, Charles of Normandy, was helpless in their hands. This was the
time of the power of Stephen Marcel, provost of the merchants of Paris, and of Robert Lecoq,
Bishop of Laon. But the movement in Paris was neither in the direction of parliamentary government
nor of democracy, and few men have less right to be regarded as popular heroes than Marcel
and Lecoq. The estates were manipulated in the interests of aristocratic intrigue, and, behind
the ostensible leaders, was the sinister influence of Charles of Navarre, who availed himself
of the desolation of France to play his own game. For a time he was the darling of the Paris
mob. Innocent VI. was deceived by his protestations of zeal for peace. As grandson of Louis
X. he aspired to the French throne, and was anxious to prevent John's return. Edward had no
good-will for a possible rival, but it was his interest to keep up the anarchy, and he had
no scruple in backing up Charles. There was talk of Edward becoming King of France and holding
the maritime provinces, while Charles as his vassal should be lord of Paris and the interior
districts. English mercenaries, who had lost their occupation with the truce, enlisted themselves
in the service of Navarre. Robert Knowles, James Pipe, and other ancient captains of Edward
fought for their own hand in Normandy, and built up colossal fortunes out of the spoils of
the country. Some of these hirelings appeared in Paris, where the citizens welcomed allies
of the Navarrese, even when they were foreign adventurers. However, Charles went so far that
a strong reaction deprived him of all power. He was able to prevent the ratification of the
preliminaries of 1358. But in that year the death of Marcel was followed by the return of the
regent to Paris, the expulsion of the foreign mercenaries, the collapse of the estates, and
the restoration of the capital to the national cause. The short-lived horrors wreaked by the
revolted peasantry were followed by the more enduring atrocities of the nobles who suppressed
them. Military adventurers pillaged France from end to end, but the worst troubles ended when
Charles of Navarre lost his pre-eminence.[1]

    [1] An admirable account of the state of France between 1356
    and 1358 is in Denifie, La Desolation des Églises en France
    pendant la Guerre de Cent Ans, ii., 134-316 (1899).

When the truce of Bordeaux was on the verge of expiration, the French king negotiated a second
treaty by which he bought off the threatened renewal of war. This was the treaty of London,
March 24, 1359, by which John yielded up to Edward in full sovereignty the ancient empire of
Henry II. Normandy, the suzerainty of Brittany, Anjou, and Maine, Aquitaine within its ancient
limits, Calais and Ponthieu with the surrounding districts, were the territorial concessions
in return for which Edward renounced his claim to the French throne. The vast ransom of 4,000,000
golden crowns was to be paid for John's redemption; the chief princes of the blood were to
be hostages for him, and in case of failure to observe the terms of the treaty he was to return
to his captivity. The only provision in any sense favourable to France was that by which Edward
promised to aid John against the King of Navarre.

The treaty of London excited the liveliest anger in France. "We had rather," declared the assembled
estates, "endure the great mischief that has afflicted us so long, than suffer the noble realm
of France thus to be diminished and defrauded."[1] Spurred up by these patriotic manifestations,
the regent rejected the treaty, and prepared as best he could for the storm of Edward's wrath
which soon burst upon his country. Anxious to unite forces against the national enemy, he made
peace with Charles of Navarre, who, abandoned by Edward, was delighted to be restored to his
estates.

    [1] Froissart, v., 180, ed. Luce.

Edward concentrated all his efforts on a new invasion of France. In November, 1359, he marched
out of Calais with all his forces. His four sons attended him, and there was a great muster
of earls and experienced warriors. Among the less known members of the host was the young Londoner,
Geoffrey Chaucer, a page in Lionel of Antwerp's household. In three columns, each following
a separate route, the English made their way from Calais towards the south-east. The French
avoided a pitched battle, but hung on the skirts of the army and slew, or captured, stragglers
and foragers. Chaucer was among those thus taken prisoner. Edward's ambition was to take Reims,
and have himself crowned there as King of France. On December 4 he arrived at the gates of
the city, and besieged it for six weeks. Then on January 11, 1360, the King despaired of success,
abandoned the siege, and marched southwards through Champagne towards Burgundy. Despite the
check at Reims, he was still so formidable that in March Duke Philip of Burgundy concluded
with him the shameful treaty of Guillon, by which he purchased exemption from invasion by an
enormous ransom and a promise of neutrality.

Edward next turned towards Paris. The news that the French had effected a successful descent
on Winchelsea and behaved with extreme brutality to the inhabitants, infuriated the English
troopers, who perpetrated a hundredfold worse deeds in the suburbs of the French capital. It
seemed as if the war was about to end with the siege and capture of Paris. The regent, unable
to meet the English in the field, fell back in despair on negotiation. Innocent VI. again offered
his good services. John sent from his English prison full powers to his son to make what terms
he would, and on April 3, which was Good Friday, ambassadors from each power met under papal
intervention at Longjumeau; but Edward still insisted on the terms of the treaty of London,
for which the French were not yet prepared. On April 7 Edward began the siege of Paris by an
attack on the southern suburbs, but was so little successful that he withdrew five days later.
A terrible tempest destroyed his provision train and devastated his army. These disasters made
Edward anxious for peace, and the negotiations, after two interruptions, were successfully
renewed at Chartres, and facilitated by the signature of a truce for a year. The work of a
definitive treaty was pushed forward, and on May 8, preliminaries of peace were signed between
the prince of Wales and Charles of France at the neighbouring hamlet of Brétigni, whither the
peacemakers had transferred their sittings. There were still formalities to accomplish which
took up many months. King John was escorted in July by the Prince of Wales to Calais, and in
October he was joined by Edward III., who had returned to England about the time that the negotiations
at Brétigni were over. The peace took its final form at Calais in October 24, 1360. Next day
John was released, and ratified the convention as a free man on French soil. This permanent
treaty is more properly styled the treaty of Calais than the treaty of Brétigni; but the alterations
between the two were only significant in one particular respect. At Calais the English agreed
to omit a clause inserted at Brétigni by which Edward renounced his claims to the French throne,
and John his claims over the allegiance of the inhabitants of the ceded districts. As the Calais
treaty of October alone had the force of law, it was a real triumph of French diplomacy to
have suppressed so vital a feature in the definitive document.[1] Even with this alleviation
the terms were sufficiently humiliating to France. Edward and his heirs were to receive in
perpetuity, "and in the manner in which the kings of France had held them," an ample territory
both in southern and northern France. All Aquitaine was henceforth to be English, including
Poitou, Saintonge, Périgord, Angoumois, Limousin, Quercy, Rouergue, Agenais, and Bigorre. The
greatest feudatories of these districts, the friendly Count of Foix as well as the hostile
Count of Armagnac, and the Breton pretender to the viscounty of Limoges, were to do homage
to Edward for all their lands within these bounds. Nor was this all. The county of Ponthieu,
including Montreuil-sur-mer, was restored to its English lords, and added to the pale of Calais,
which was to include the whole county of Guînes, made up two considerable northern dominions
for Edward. With these cessions were included all adjacent islands, and all islands held by
the English king at that time, so that the Channel islands were by implication recognised as
English.

    [1] On the importance of this, see the paper of MM.
    Petit-Dutaillis and P. Collier, La Diplomatie française et le
    Traité de Brétigny in Le Moyen Age, 2e serie, tome i.
    (1897), pp. 1-35.

The ransom of John was fixed at 3,000,000 gold crowns, that is ~500,000 sterling. The vastness
of this sum can be realised by remembering that the ordinary revenue of the English crown in
time of peace did not much exceed £60,000, while the addition to that of a sum of £150,000
involved an effort which only a popular war could dispose Englishmen to make. Of this ransom
600,000 crowns were to be paid at once, and the rest in annual instalments of 400,000 crowns
until the whole payment was effected. During this period the prisoners from Poitiers, several
of the king's near relatives, a long list of the noblest names in France, and citizens of some
of its wealthiest cities, were to remain as hostages in Edward's hands. As to the Breton succession,
Edward and John engaged to do their best to effect a peaceful settlement. If they failed in
attaining this, the rival claimants were to fight it out among themselves, England and France
remaining neutral. Whichever of the two became duke was to do homage to the King of France,
and John of Montfort was, in any case, to be restored to his county of Montfort. A similar
care for Edward's friends was shown in the article which preserved for Philip of Navarre his
hereditary domains in Normandy. Forfeitures and outlawries were to be pardoned, and the rights
of private persons to be respected. Nevertheless Calais was to remain at Edward's entire disposal,
and the burgesses, dispossessed by him, were not to be reinstated. The French renounced their
alliance with the Scots, and the English theirs with the Flemings. Time was allowed to carry
out these complicated stipulations, and, by way of compensating Edward for the significant
omission which has been mentioned, elaborate provisions were made for the mutual execution
at a later date of charters of renunciation, by which Edward abandoned his claim to the French
throne and John the over-lordship of the districts yielded to Edward. These were to be exchanged
at Bruges about a year later.

England rejoiced at the conclusion of so brilliant a peace, and laid no stress on the subtle
change in the conditions which made the treaty far less definitive in reality than in appearance.
In France the faithful flocked to the churches to give thanks for deliverance from the long
anarchy. The perfect courtesy and good feeling which the two kings had shown to each other
gilded the concluding ceremonies with a ray of chivalry. John was released almost at once,
and allowed to retain with him in France some of the hostages, including his valiant son Philip,
the companion of his captivity. John made Edward's peace with Louis of Flanders, and Edward
persuaded John to pardon Charles and Philip of Navarre. At last the two weary nations looked
forward to a long period of repose.

It was an easier matter to conclude the treaty of Calais than to carry it out. Troubles followed
the release of the French king and the expiration of the year during which the two parties
were to yield up the ceded territory and effect the renunciations of their respective claims.
John did his best to keep faith in both these matters. He ordered his vassals to submit themselves
to their new lord, and appointed commissioners to hand over the lost provinces to the agents
of the English king. In July, 1361, Sir John Chandos, Edward's lieutenant in France, received
the special mission of taking possession of the new acquisitions in the name of his master.
Chandos' reputation as a soldier made him acceptable to the French, and being recognised by
the treaty as lord of Saint-Sauveur in the Côtentin, he was interested in maintaining good
relations between the two realms. He began his work by taking possession of Poitiers and Poitou,
but found that many of the descendants of the greedy lords, who, more than a hundred years
before, had played off Henry III against St. Louis, abandoned the rule of John with undisguised
reluctance. It was worse with the towns, where national sentiment was stronger. La Rochelle
held out for months, and, when its notables at last submitted, they declared: "We will accept
the English with our lips but never with our hearts". Much patriotic feeling was manifested
in Quercy. The consuls of Cahors made their submission, weeping and groaning. "Alas!" they
declared, "how odious it is to lose our natural lord, and to pass over to a master we know
not. But it is not we who abandon the King of France. It is he who, against our wishes, hands
us over, like orphans, to the hands of the stranger." It was not until two years after the
signing of the treaty that Edward entered into possession of the bulk of the lands granted
to him. Even then there were districts in Poitou, notably Belleville, which never became English
at all. One of the last districts to yield was Rouergue, whose count, John of Armagnac, only
made his submission under the compulsion of irresistible necessity.

It was even more difficult to get the English out of the lands which the treaty had assigned
to the French. These districts were largely held by companies of mercenaries, little under
Edward's control and indisposed to yield up the conquests won by their own hands because their
nominal lord had thought fit to make a treaty with the French king. Despite the orders of Edward,
the English garrisons in the north and centre of France flatly refused to surrender their strongholds.
In Maine, Hugh Calveley took Bertrand du Guesclin prisoner when he sought to receive the submission
of his castles, and only released him on payment of a heavy ransom. In Normandy, Du Guesclin
had to buy off James Pipe, who dominated all the central district from the fortified abbey
of Cormeilles, and to crush John Jowel in a pitched battle near Lisieux. Even when the castles
were surrendered, the garrisons joined with each other to establish societies of warriors that
now inflicted terrible woes on France. The exploits of these free companies hardly belong to
English history, though many of their leaders and a large proportion of the rank and file were
Englishmen. Cruel, fierce, and uncouth, they still preserved in all military dealings the strict
discipline which had taught the English armies the way to victory. The combination of the order
of a settled host with the rapacity of a gang of freebooters made them as irresistible as they
were destructive. Though Edward formally repudiated them, it was more than suspected that they
were secretly playing his game.

Before long, this guerilla warfare became consolidated into military operations on a large
scale. Charles of Navarre once more profited by the disorder of France to bring himself to
the front. In 1361 John had availed himself of the death of Philip of Rouvres to treat the
duchy of Burgundy as a lapsed fief, and conferred it on his youngest son, Philip the Bold.
Charles then claimed to be the heir of Burgundy, and while he personally directed the forces
of disorder in the south, his agents united with the English condottieri in Normandy. John
Jowel still held tight to his Norman conquests, and was, by Edward's direction, fighting openly
for Charles of Navarre. The Captal de Buch, the hero of Poitiers, hurried from Gascony to protect
the Navarrese lands from the invasion of Bertrand du Guesclin. On May 16, 1364, the little
armies of the Captal and the Breton partisan met at Cocherel on the Eure, where Du Guesclin
cleverly won the first important victory gained by the French in the open field during the
whole course of the war. The Captal was taken prisoner, and the establishment of Du Guesclin
in some of Charles of Navarre's Norman fiefs deprived the intriguer of his opportunities to
do mischief in the north. Charles of Navarre's career was not yet over; but henceforth his
chief field was his southern kingdom.

The victorious Du Guesclin turned his attention to his native Brittany, where the war of Blois
and Montfort still went on, for Joan of Penthièvre insisted so strongly upon her rights that
the efforts of Edward and John to end the contest had been without result. In 1362 John de
Montfort was at last entrusted with the government of Brittany, and Du Guesclin quitted the
service of France for that of Charles of Blois, that the treaty of 1360 might remain unbroken.
But as in the early wars, the army of Blois was mainly French, and the host of Montfort was
commanded by the Englishman, John Chandos, and largely consisted of English men-at-arms and
archers. Calveley, Knowles, and the Breton Oliver de Clisson were among the captains of Duke
John's forces.

The decisive engagement took place on September 29, 1364, on the plateau, north of Auray, which
is still marked by the church of St. Michael, erected as a thank-offering by the victor. It
was another Poitiers on a small scale. The Anglo-Breton army held a good defensive position,
facing northwards, with its back on the town of Auray. The troops of Charles of Blois and Du
Guesclin advanced to attack them with more ardour than discipline or skill. Both sides fought
on foot. The French knights had at last learnt to meet the storm of English arrows by strengthening
their armour and by protecting themselves by large shields. Thus, as at Poitiers, they had
little difficulty in making their way up to the enemy's ranks. But their order was confused,
and they thought of nothing but the fierce delights of the mêlée. The Montfort party showed
more intelligence, and Chandos, like the captal at Poitiers, fell suddenly upon the flank of
one of the enemy's divisions. This settled the fight; Charles of Blois was slain, Du Guesclin
taken prisoner, and their army utterly scattered. Auray ended the war of the Breton succession.
Even Joan of Penthièvre was at last willing to treat. In 1365 the treaty of Guérande was signed,
by which. Montfort was recognised as John IV. of Brittany, and did homage to the French crown.
Joan was consoled by remaining in possession of the county of Penthièvre and the viscounty
of Limoges. Practically her defeat was an English victory, and Montfort remained in his duchy
so long only as English influence prevailed. A second step towards the pacification of the
north was made when the troubles in Brittany were ended within a few months of the destruction
of the power of Charles the Bad in Normandy.

The free companies lost their chief hunting-grounds; and a further relief came when some of
them, like the White Company, found a better market for their swords in Italy. With all their
faults, the companies opened out a career to talent such as had seldom been found before. John
Hawkwood, the leader of the White Company, was an Essex man of the smaller landed class. He
had played but a subordinate figure beside Knowles, Calveley, Pipe, and Jowel; but in Italy
he won for himself the name of the greatest strategist of his age. Thus, though at the cost
of murder and pillage, the English made themselves talked about all over the western world.
"In my youth," wrote Petrarch, "the Britons, whom we call Angles or English, had the reputation
of being the most timid of the barbarians. Now they are the most warlike of peoples. They have
overturned the ancient military glory of the French by a series of victories so numerous and
unexpected that those, who were not long since inferior to the wretched Scots, have so crushed
by fire and sword the whole realm that, on a recent journey, I could hardly persuade myself
that it was the France that I had seen in former years."[1]

    [1] Epistolæ Familiares, iii., Ep. 14, p. 162, ed.
    Fracassetti.

It was to little purpose that King John laboured to redeem his plighted word and make France
what it had been before the war. Though in November, 1361, neither he nor Edward sent commissioners
to Bruges, where, according to the treaty of Calais, the charters of renunciation were to be
exchanged, John offered in 1362 to carry out his promise. Edward, however, for reasons of his
own, made no response to his advances. The result was that the renunciations were never made,
and so the essential condition of the original settlement remained unfulfilled. The matter
passed almost unnoticed at the time as a mere formality, but in later years Edward's lack of
faith brought its own punishment in giving the French king a plausible excuse for still claiming
suzerainty over the ceded provinces. Perhaps Edward still cherished the ambition of resuscitating
his pretensions to the French crown. He found it as hard to give up a claim as ever his grandfather
had done.

John's good faith was conspicuously evinced by the efforts he made to raise the instalments
of his ransom. His payments were in arrears: some of the hostages left in free custody by Edward's
generosity broke their parole and escaped; and among them was his own son, Louis, Duke of Anjou.
The father felt it his duty to step into the place thus left vacant. In 1363 he returned to
his English prison, where he died in 1364, surrounded with every courtesy and attention that
Edward could lavish upon him. During the last months of his life, England received visits from
two other kings, David of Scotland and the Lusignan lord of Cyprus, who still called himself
King of Jerusalem, and was wandering through the courts of Europe to stir up interest in the
projected crusade.

Charles of Normandy then became Charles V. He was no knight-errant like his father, and his
diplomatic gifts, tact, and patience made him much better fitted than John for outwitting his
English enemies and for restoring order to France. Slowly but surely he grappled with the companies,
and at last an opening was found for their skill in the civil war which broke out in Castile.
Peter the Cruel, since 1350 King of Castile, had made himself odious to many of his subjects.
At last his bastard brother, Henry of Trastamara, rose in revolt against him. Peter, however,
was capable and energetic, and not without support from certain sections of the Castilians.
Moreover, he was friendly with Charles of Navarre, and allied with Edward III. On the other
hand Henry found powerful backing from the King of Aragon, and made an appeal to the King of
France. This gave Charles V. the chance he wanted. He hated Peter, who was reputed to have
murdered his own wife, Blanche of Bourbon sister of the Queen of France, and in 1365 he agreed
to give Henry assistance. Du Guesclin welded the scattered companies into an army and led them
against the Spanish king. The pope fell in with the scheme as an indirect way of realising
his crusading ambition. When Henry had become King of Castile, the companies would go on to
attack the Moors of Granada. English and French mercenaries flocked gladly together under Du
Guesclin's banner. Edward in vain ordered his subjects not to take part in an invasion of the
lands of his friend and cousin, Peter of Castile. Though Chandos declined at the last moment
to follow Du Guesclin into the peninsula, Sir Hugh Calveley would not desist from the quest
of fresh adventure, even at the orders of his lord. Professional and knightly feeling bound
Calveley to Du Guesclin more closely than their difference of nationality separated them, so
that Calveley took his part in the Castilian campaign with perfect loyally to his ancient enemy.
In December, 1365, Du Guesclin and his followers made their way through Roussillon and Aragon
into Castile. The spring of 1366 saw Peter a fugitive in Aquitaine, and Henry of Trastamara
crowned Henry II. of Castile. Most of the companies then went home, though Du Guesclin and
Calveley remained to support the new king's throne.

The deposed tyrant went to Bordeaux, where since 1363 the Black Prince had been resident as
Prince of Aquitaine; for in 1362 Edward had erected his new possessions into a principality
and conferred it on his eldest son, in the hope of conciliating the Gascons by some pretence
of restoring their independence. At Bordeaux Peter persuaded the prince to restore him to his
throne by force. Edward also agreed to support Peter, and sent his third son, John of Gaunt,
to march through Brittany and Poitou with a powerful English reinforcement to his brother's
resources, while the lord of Aquitaine assembled the whole, strength of his new principality
for the expedition. At the bidding of his lord, Calveley cheerfully abandoned Du Guesclin,
and thenceforth fought as courageously on the one side as he had previously done on the other.
Charles of Navarre professed great desire to help forward the invaders, and his offers of friendship
opened up to the prince the easiest way into Spain by way of the pass of Roncesvalles from
Saint-Jean-Pied-de-Port to Pamplona, the capital of Navarre. In February, 1367, the prince's
army made its way in frost and snow through the valleys famous in romance. From Pamplona two
roads diverged to Burgos, the ancient Castilian capital. The easier way ran south-westwards
through Navarrese territory to the Ebro at Logroño, where beyond the river lay the Castilian
frontier. The more difficult route went westwards through rugged mountains and high valleys
by way of Salvatierra and Vitoria to a passage over the upper Ebro at Miranda. The Black Prince
chose the latter route, and reached Vitoria in safely. Beyond the town King Henry's army held
a position so strong that Edward found it impossible to dislodge him.

The winter weather still held the upland valleys in its grip when March was far advanced. Men
and horses suffered terribly from cold and hunger, and the prince, seeing that he could not
long maintain his position, boldly resolved to transfer himself to the southern route. A flank
march over snow-clad sierras brought him to the vale of the Ebro, and, crossing the stream
at Logroño, he took up his position a few miles south-west of that town, near the Castilian
village of Navarrete. On the prince's change of front King Henry also moved southward, crossing
the Ebro a few miles above Logroño, and then advanced to Nájera, a village about six miles
west of Navarrete, where he once more blocked the English path. The prince, however, had the
advantage of position and could afford to wait until the Castilians attacked. On April 3 Henry
advanced over the little river Najarilla against the enemy. The Spanish host fought after a
different fashion from that practised by both sides in the French wars. Only Du Guesclin and
the small remnant of the companies which still abode in Spain dismounted. The mass of the Castilians
remained on their horses. Their cavalry was of two sorts: besides a large number of men-at-arms
bestriding armoured steeds, there were swarms of light horsemen, unencumbered by heavy armour
and called genitours, from being mounted on the fleet Spanish steeds called jennets. The desperate
valour of Du Guesclin and his followers could not prevent utter disaster. Henry fled in panic
from the scene; Du Guesclin was again a prisoner, and the Najarilla was reddened by the blood
of the thousands of fugitive Spaniards, for, caught as in a trap at the narrow bridge which
offered the sole means of retreat, they were massacred without difficulty by the prince's troops.
The victors marched on to Burgos, and, Don Henry having fled to France, Peter was restored
with little further trouble to the Castilian throne.

The Black Prince remained in Castile all through the summer, waiting for the rewards which
Don Peter had promised him. His army melted away through fever and dysentery, and the prince
himself contracted the beginnings of a mortal disorder. Thus the crowning victory of his career
was the last of his triumphs. Like many other leaders of chivalry, he had not understood the
limitations of his resources, and had dissipated on this bootless Spanish campaign means scarcely
sufficient to grapple with the spirit of disaffection already undermining his power in Aquitaine.
With shattered health and the mere skeleton of his gallant army, he made his way back over
the Pyrenees. Henceforth misfortune dogged every step of his career.

Since 1363 the constant residence of the Black Prince and his wife, Joan of Kent, in Gascony,
had been broken only by his Castilian expedition. It was a wise policy to send the prince to
hold a permanent court in Aquitaine, such as the land had never seen since Richard Coeur de
Lion. All that affability, magnificence, and chivalry could do to make his domination attractive
might be confidently anticipated from so brilliant and high-minded a knight as the prince of
Aquitaine. The court of Bordeaux was as brilliant as the court of Windsor. "Never," boasted
the Chandos Herald,[1] "was such good entertainment as his; for every day at his table he had
more than four-score knights and four times as many squires. There was found all nobleness,
merriment, freedom, and honour. His subjects loved him, for he did them much good." The sulky
magnates of the south-west, such as John of Armagnac and Gaston Phoebus of Foix, found their
bitterness tempered by the prince's courtesy, while the boastful knights of Gascony looked
forward to a career of honourable service under the descendant of their ancient dukes. Feastings
and tournaments were not enough to win all his subjects' hearts; and the Black Prince strove
with some energy to show that he was a ruler of men as well as the centre of a court. It is
to his credit that he cleared his inheritance from the free companies, so that Poitou and Limousin
enjoyed far more prosperity and tranquillity than in the days of French ascendency. Such new
taxation as Gascon custom allowed was only levied after grants from the three estates. Great
pains were taken to improve the administration, the judicial system, and the coinage. Edward
saw that his best policy was to rely upon the people of Gascony, and to look with suspicion
on the great lords. But he did not understand how limited was the authority which tradition
gave to the dukes of Aquitaine, and he was too stiff, too pedantic, too insular, to get on
really cordial terms with his subjects. He never, like Gaston Phoebus or Richard Coeur de Lion,
threw himself into the local life, language, and traditions of the country.

    [1] Le Prince Noir, poème du héraut d'Armes Chandos, pp.
    107-108, ed. F. Michel.

The Black Prince's greatest successes were with the towns, and especially with those which
had been continuously subject to English rule. The citizens of Bordeaux, who had feared lest
Edward's claim to the French crown should involve them in more complete subjection, were appeased
by promises that they should in any case remain subject to the English monarchy. Their liberties
were increased and their wine trade was fostered, even to the loss of English merchants. The
other towns were equally contented. Edward relied upon them as a counterpoise to the feudal
lords, and their liberties exempted them from the extraordinary taxes by which he strove to
restore the equilibrium of his finances. The half-independent magnates were soon convinced
that their chivalrous lord was no friend of aristocratic privilege. Edward, even when using
their services in war, carefully excluded them from the administration. They saw with disgust
the chief offices monopolised by Englishmen. An English bishop, John Harewell of Bath, was
Edward's chancellor and confidential adviser. An English knight, Thomas Felton, was seneschal
of Aquitaine and head of the administration. The constableship was assigned to Chandos. The
seneschalships of the several provinces were mainly in English hands. With English notions
of the rights of the supreme power, the prince paid little attention to the franchises of either
lord or prelate. He mortally offended John of Armagnac by requiring a direct oath of fealty
from the Bishop of Rodez, who held all his lands of Armagnac as Count of Rouergue. Clerks of
lesser degree were outraged by the prince's attempts to hinder students from attending the
university of Toulouse.

The Spanish expedition immensely increased the Black Prince's difficulties. He exhausted his
finances to equip his army, and both on their coming and going his soldiers cruelly pillaged
the country. Edward now dismissed most of his troops and urged them to betake themselves to
France. In January, 1368, he obtained from the estates of Aquitaine a new hearth tax of ten
sous a hearth for five years. The tax was freely voted and collected from the great majority
of the payers without trouble. The towns were mainly exempt from it by reason of their liberties;
and the lesser lords were as yet not averse from English rule. But the greater feudatories
saw in the new hearth-tax a pretext for revolt. They had no special zeal for the French monarchy,
but the house of Valois was weak and far removed from their territories. Their great concern
was the preservation of their independence, which seemed more threatened by a resident prince
than by a distant overlord at Paris. Even before the imposition of the hearth-tax, the Count
of Armagnac entered into a secret treaty with Charles V., who promised to increase his territories
and respect his franchises, if he would return to the French allegiance. The lord of Albret
married a sister of the French queen and followed Armagnac's lead. A little later the Counts
of Périgord and Comminges and other lords associated themselves with this policy. Thus the
rule of the Black Prince in Aquitaine, acquiesced in by the mass of the people, was threatened
by a feudal revolt. Armagnac appealed to the parliament of Paris against the hearth-tax. Charles
V. accepted the appeal on the ground of the non-exchange of the renunciations which should
have followed the treaty of Calais. Cited before the parliament in January, 1369, the Black
Prince replied that he would go to Paris with helmet on head and with sixty thousand men at
his back. His father once more assumed the title of King of France, and war broke out again.

The relative positions of France and England were different from what they had been nine years
before. Edward III. was sinking into an unhonoured old age, and the Prince of Aquitaine suffered
from dropsy, and was incapable of taking the field. Of their former comrades some, like Walter
Manny, were dead, and others too old for much more fighting. On the other side was Charles
V., who had tamed Navarre and the feudal lords, had cleared the realm of the companies, had
put down faction and disorder, and had made himself the head of a strong national party, resolved
to effect the expulsion of the foreigner. His chief military counsellors were Du Guesclin,
and Du Guesclin's old adversary in the Breton wars, Oliver de Clisson, now the zealous servant
of the king. A wonderful outburst of French patriotism facilitated the reconquest of the lands
that had passed to English rule nine years before. Even the tradition of military superiority
availed little against commanders who were learning by their defeats how to meet their once
invincible enemies.

There was a like modification in the foreign alliances of the two kingdoms. Dynastic changes
in the Netherlands had robbed Edward of supporters who, though costly and ineffective, had
been imposing in outward appearance. Even after the dissolution of the alliances of the early
years of the war, the temporising policy of Louis de Male at least neutralised the influence
of Flanders. During the peace both Edward and Charles did their best to win the goodwill of
the Flemish count. Louis' relation to the two rivals was the more important since his only
child was a daughter named Margaret. In 1356, this lady, to Edward's great disgust, was promised
in marriage to Philip de Rouvre, Duke and Count of Burgundy, and Count of Artois. The death
of Philip in 1361 saved Edward from the danger of a great state with one arm in the Burgundies
and the other in Flanders and Artois; and the irritation of Louis de Male at Charles V.'s grant
of the Burgundian duchy to his youngest son, Philip the Bold, gave the English king a new chance
of winning his favour. At last, in 1364, Edward concluded a treaty with Flanders according
to his dearest wishes. Edmund of Langley, Earl of Cambridge, his youngest son, was betrothed
to the widowed Margaret, with Ponthieu, Guînes, and Calais as their appanage. Great as were
Edward's sacrifices, they were worth making if a permanent union could be established between
England and Flanders, equally threatening to France and to the lords of the Netherlands. Charles
persuaded Urban V. to refuse the necessary dispensations for the marriage. Edward and Louis,
irritated at the success of this countermove, waited patiently and renewed their alliance.

No sooner was his understanding with Armagnac completed than Charles strove to secure the support
of northern as well as of southern feudalism against Edward. He offered his brother, Philip
of Burgundy, to Margaret, along with the restoration of the districts of French Flanders, which
he still held. In June, 1369, the marriage took place. Edmund of Cambridge lost his last chance
of the great heiress, and Charles V. bought off the enmity of the Count of Flanders at the
price of that union of Burgundy and Flanders which, in the next century, was to make the descendants
of Philip and Margaret the most formidable opponents of the French monarchy. For the moment,
however, Charles gained little. Flemish ships, indeed, fought against the English at sea, notably
in Bourgneuf Bay in 1371, but next year Louis made peace with them. Despite his daughter's
marriage, the Count of Flanders still showed that his sympathies were with England. The other
princes of the Netherlands were much more decidedly on the French side than the Count of Flanders.
Margaret of Hainault, Queen Philippa's sister, had, after the death of her husband the Emperor
Louis of Bavaria, in 1347 fought with her son William for the possession of her three counties
of Hainault, Holland, and Zealand, to which Philippa also had pretensions, naturally upheld
by her husband. William obtained such advantages over his mother that Margaret was obliged
to invoke the assistance of her brother-in-law. Eager to regain his influence in the Netherlands,
Edward willingly agreed to be arbiter between Margaret and her son, and at his suggestion the
disputed lands were divided between them. William was married to Maud of Lancaster, Duke Henry's
elder daughter, and thus secured to the English alliance. On Margaret's death William inherited
all the three counties: but Maud died, and William became insane, whereupon his brother and
heir invoked the support of the Emperor Charles IV., and was duly established in his fiefs.
The claims of Philippa were ignored, and the Lancaster marriage with the lord of Holland, like
the projected union of Edmund with the heiress of Flanders, failed to fulfil Edward's hopes.

Meanwhile Edward had to face the constant hostility of the emperor. Wenceslaus of Luxemburg,
brother of Charles IV., had married the daughter and heiress of John III of Brabant, with the
result of solidly establishing the house of Luxemburg in the strongest of the duchies of the
Low Countries. With the Luxemburger as with the Bavarian, Edward's relations were unfriendly.
Two only of the Low German lords, the dukes of Gelderland and Jülich, were willing to take
his pay. Early in the war they were assailed by the Luxemburgers, and the contest occupied
all their energies. Thus Edward re-entered the struggle against France with no help save that
of his own subjects. Urban V. died at Avignon in 1370, and his successor, Gregory XI., was
as little friendly to English claims in France as his predecessors had been. Pope, emperor,
and the Netherlandish princes, were all either French or neutral. And in 1369 Peter of Castile
lost his throne, and soon afterwards perished at his brother's hands. Henry of Trastamara,
henceforth King of Castile, became the firm ally of the French, who had already the support
of Aragon. Even Charles the Bad thought it prudent to declare for France.

At each stage of the war the French took the initiative. The appeal of the southern nobles
was the beginning of a national movement which, before March, 1369, was supported by more than
900 towns, castles, and fortified places in Edward's allegiance. In April the French invaded
Ponthieu and were welcomed as deliverers at Abbeville and the other towns of the county. John
of Gaunt led an army during the summer from Calais southwards. He marched through Ponthieu,
crossed the Somme at Blanchetaque, and ravaged the country up to the Seine. Then he retired
exhausted, having gained no real advantage by this mere foray. Charles announced that, as Edward
had supported the free companies, he fell under the excommunication threatened by the pope
against the abettors of these pests of society, and that the vassals of the English crown were
therefore relieved from allegiance to him. Soon afterwards he declared that Edward had forfeited
all his possessions in France.

Quercy and Rouergue, which had submitted last, were the first districts of Aquitaine to revolt.
Cahors declared for France as soon as the Black Prince was cited to Paris. By the end of 1369
all Quercy had acknowledged Charles V., and John of Armagnac ruled Rouergue as his vassal.
It was the same in the Garonne valley, where towns which had no quarrel with English rule,
were swept away by the strong tide of national feeling that surged round their walls. A systematic
attack was made upon the English power in Aquitaine. Charles V. fitted out new armies in which
the townsmen and the country-folk fought side by side with the nobility. Two of his brothers,
John, Duke of Berri, and Louis, Duke of Anjou, prepared to assail the intruders, Berri in the
central uplands, Anjou in the Garonne valley. It was not enough to recover what was lost. Aggression
must be met by aggression, and the Duke of Burgundy, Charles' third brother, equipped a fleet
in Norman ports, either to invade England or at least to cut off the Black Prince from his
base. Portsmouth was burnt, before England had made any effort to defend her shores.

The English were strangely inactive. The Black Prince lay sick at Cognac, and of his subordinates
Chandos, now seneschal of Poitou, alone showed vigour. Chandos, finding the lords of Poitou
much more loyal to the English connexion than those of the south, was able to take the aggressive
by invading Anjou. He was, however, soon recalled to protect Poitou, and on January 1, 1370,
was mortally wounded at the bridge of Lussac. James Audley had already died of disease in another
Poitevin town. While England was losing her best soldiers, Du Guesclin began a fresh series
of raids in the Garonne valley. Soon the banner of the lilies waved within a few leagues of
Bordeaux, and ancient towns of the English obedience, like Bazas and Bergerac, fell into the
enemy's hands. With the capture of Périgueux, the Limousin was isolated from Gascon succour.
In August the Duke of Berri appeared before the walls of the cité, or episcopal quarter, of
Limoges, and the bishop promptly handed it over to him.

Disasters at last stirred up the English to action. In 1370 John of Gaunt was sent with one
army to Gascony and Sir Robert Knowles with another to Calais. The Black Prince, though unable
to ride, was eager to command. It was arranged that while Lancaster led one force from Bordeaux
to Limoges, Edward should accompany another that marched from Cognac towards the same destination.
To resist this combination Du Guesclin strove to combine the separate armies of the Dukes of
Anjou and Berri. However, he failed to prevent the junction of Lancaster and Edward, and their
advance to Limoges. On September 19, the anniversary of Poitiers, the city of Limoges opened
its gates after a five days' siege. The English took a terrible revenge. Not a house in the
cité was spared, and the cathedral rose over a mass of ruins. The whole population was put
to the sword, the Black Prince in his litter watching grimly the execution of his orders. A
few gentlemen alone were saved for the sake of their ransoms. Among them was the brother of
Pope Gregory XI., who not unnaturally became a warm friend of the patriotic party. The sack
of Limoges was the last exploit of the Black Prince. Early in 1371, he returned to England,
partly because of his state of health, and partly because he had no money to pay his soldiers.
It is not unlikely that he was already on bad terms with John of Gaunt, who had necessarily
taken the chief share in the campaign and was nominated his successor. Too late, efforts were
made to conciliate the Gascons; in 1370 a supreme court was set up at Saintes to save the necessity
of appeals to London which had become as onerous as the ancient frequency of resort to the
parliament of Paris; and the hearth-tax, the ostensible cause of the rising, was formally renounced.

Sir Robert Knowles's expedition of 1370 was as futile as that of Lancaster. He advanced from
Calais into the heart of northern France. Taught by long experience the danger of joining battle,
the French allowed him to wander where he would, plundering and ravaging the country. Roughly
following the line of march of Edward III. in 1360, the English advanced through Artois and
Vermandois to Laon and Reims, and thence southwards through Champagne. Then striking northwards
from the Burgundian border, they appeared, at the end of September, before the southern suburbs
of Paris. To dissipate the alarm felt at the presence of the English, Du Guesclin was summoned
from the south and made constable of France. Before his arrival Knowles had moved on westwards
'towards the Beauce, intending to reach his own estates in Brittany for winter quarters. But
his young captains got out of control. Led by a Gloucestershire knight, Sir John Minsterworth,
"ready in hand but deceitful and perverse in mind," a considerable section of the troops refused
to follow the old "tomb-robber" to Brittany, and determined to spend the winter where they
were, under Minsterworth's leadership. Knowles would not give place to his subordinate, and
made his way to Brittany with the part of his army which was still faithful to him. No sooner
was he well started than Du Guesclin, after a march of ninety miles in three days, fell upon
his rearguard at Pontvallain in southern Maine and overwhelmed it on December 4, 1370. Knowles
managed to reach Brittany with the bulk of his forces, and Minsterworth, the real cause of
the disaster, ventured to go to England and denounce his leader as a traitor. He was forced
to flee to France, where he openly joined the enemy. Seven years later he was captured and
executed.

Minsterworth was not the only traitor. In the earlier part of the war, there had fought on
the English side a grand-nephew of the last independent Prince of Wales, Sir Owen ap Thomas
ap Rhodri,[1] whose grandfather, Rhodri or Roderick, the youngest brother of the princes Llewelyn
and David, had after the ruin of his house lived obscurely as a small Cheshire and Gloucestershire
landlord. In 1365 Owen was in France, engaged, no doubt, in one of the free companies, and
on his father's death he returned to defend his inheritance from the claims of the Charltons
of Powys. Having succeeded in this, he returned to France, and nothing more is heard of him
until after the renewal of the war. In 1370 he appeared as a strenuous partisan of the French.
Mindful of his ancestry he posed as the lawful Prince of Wales, and established communications
with his countrymen, both in France and in Wales. Anxious to stir up discord in Edward's realm,
the French king gladly upheld his claims. A gallant knight and an impulsive, energetic partisan,
Sir Owen of Wales soon won a place of his own in the history of his time. In Gwynedd he was
celebrated as Owain Lawgoch, Owen of the Red Hand. Conspiracies in his favour were ruthlessly
stamped out, and a halo of legend and poetry soon encircled his name. In France Charles entrusted
him and another Welshman, named John Wynn, with the equipment of a fleet at Rouen with which
the champion was to descend on the principality and excite arising. Bad weather caused the
complete destruction of the expedition of the Welsh pretender. Two years later, however, another
fleet was fitted out on his behalf, and in June, 1372, Owen took possession of Guernsey.

    [1] The place of Owen of Wales in history was for the first
    time clearly shown by Mr. Edward Owen in Y Cymmrodor,
    1899-1900, pp. 1-105.

At that time the fortune of war was strongly in favour of France, though the initial successes
of Charles V. were damped by the doubtful results of the petty struggles which filled the year
1371. During that year Du Guesclin, the soul of the French attack, ejected the English from
many places in Normandy and Poitou. On the other hand, the English won the hard fought battle
over a Flemish fleet in Bourgneuf Bay, which has already been mentioned. They also showed some
power of recovery in Aquitaine, where their recapture of Figeac in upper Quercy gave them a
base for renewing their attacks on Rouergue. On the whole then, the year left matters much
as they had been.

The occupation of Guernsey by Owen of Wales was the beginning of a new series of French victories.
Up to that time the northern coastlands of Aquitaine, lower Poitou, Saintonge, and Angoumois
had remained almost entirely under their English lords. In the hope of resisting attack, the
English projected the invasion of France both from Calais and from Guienne. To carry out the
latter plan John Hastings, Earl of Pembroke, was despatched with a fleet and army from England,
with a commission to succeed John of Gaunt as the king's lieutenant in Aquitaine. The Franco-Spanish
alliance then began to bear its fruits. Henry of Trastamara equipped a strong Spanish fleet
to meet the invaders in the Bay of Biscay. On June 23, 1372, the two fleets fought an action
off La Rochelle. The light Spanish galleys out-manoeuvred the heavy English ships, laden deep
in the water with stores and filled with troops and horses. The Spaniards set on fire some
of the English transports, which became unmanageable owing to the fright of the horses embarked
upon them. The English fought valiantly, and night fell before the battle was decided. Next
day, the Spaniards attacked again, and won a complete victory. The English fleet was destroyed,
and Pembroke was taken a prisoner to Santander.

The news of Pembroke's defeat encouraged the French to attempt the conquest of Poitou. Du Guesclin
invaded the county from the north in co-operation with the Spaniards at sea, Owen of Wales
abandoned the siege of Cornet castle, in Guernsey, which still held out against him, and hurried
to join the Spaniards. At Santander he met the captive Pembroke, and bitterly reproached the
marcher earl with the part his house had taken in driving the Welsh from their lands. In August
Owen and the Spaniards were lying off La Rochelle. Sir Thomas Percy, seneschal of Poitou, and
the Captal de Buch were with a considerable force at Soubise, near the mouth of the Charente.
Owen ascended the river and fell unexpectedly on the English at night. The English were utterly
defeated and both leaders were taken prisoners, Thomas Percy, the future ally of Owen Glendower,
being captured by one of Sir Owen's Welsh followers. Meanwhile, Du Guesclin, after receiving
the surrender of Poitiers on August 7, pressed forward to the coast and was soon in touch with
Owen and the Spaniards. On the same September day Angoulême and La Rochelle opened their gates
to the French. In the course of the same month all the other towns of the district declared
for the winning side. The nobles of Poitou were still to some extent English in sympathy, and
a considerable band of them and their followers took refuge in Thouars. On December 1 this
last stronghold of Poitevin feudalism surrendered. The tidings of disaster roused the old English
king to his final martial effort. A fleet was raised and sailed from Sandwich, having on board
the king, the Prince of Wales, the Duke of Lancaster, and many other magnates. Contrary winds
kept the vessels near the English coast, and the vast sums lavished on the equipment of the
expedition were wasted. In despair the Black Prince surrendered to his father his principality
of Aquitaine. When the king begged the commons for a further war subsidy, he was told that
the navy had been ruined by his harsh impressment of seamen, and his refusal to give them pay
when detained in port waiting for orders. When the command of the sea passed to the French
and their Spanish allies, all hope of retaining Aquitaine was lost.

The final stages in the ruin of the English power in France need not detain us long. Despite
his successes, Du Guesclin persevered in his policy of wearing down the English by delays and
by avoiding pitched battles. He turned his attention to Brittany, where Duke John, in difficulties
with his subjects, had invoked the aid of an English army. Thereupon the Breton barons called
the French king to take possession of the duchy, whose lord was betraying it to the foreigner.
The old party struggle was at an end: Celtic Brittany joined hands with French Brittany. Before
the end of 1373, Duke John was a fugitive, and only a few castles with English garrisons upheld
his cause. Of these Brest was the most important, and despite the Spaniards and Owen of Wales,
the English were still strong enough at sea to retain possession of the place.

In July, 1373, John of Gaunt marched out of Calais with one of the strongest armies with which
an English invader had ever entered France. Pursuing a general south-easterly direction, the
English pitilessly devastated Artois, Picardy, and Champagne. Du Guesclin hastened back from
Brittany to command the army engaged in watching Lancaster. He still continued his defensive
tactics, but gave the enemy little rest. Lancaster was no match for so able a general as the
Breton constable. At the end of September he moved from Troyes to Sens, and thence pushed into
Burgundy. Then he turned westwards through the Nivernais and the Bourbonnais, and led his army
through the uplands of Auvergne. By the end of the year he had traversed the Limousin, and
made his way to Bordeaux. Half his army had perished of hunger, cold, and in petty warfare.
The horses had suffered worse than the men, and the baggage train was almost destroyed. Without
fighting a battle Du Guesclin had put the enemy out of action. Experience now showed how useless
were the prolonged plundering raids which ten years before had filled all France with terror.

Even in Gascony Lancaster could not hold his own. After declining battle with the Duke of Anjou,
he returned to England, leaving Sir Thomas Felton as seneschal. The enemy had penetrated to
the very heart of the old English district. La Réole opened its gates to them; Saint-Sever,
the seat of the Gascon high court, followed its example, By 1374 the English duchy was reduced
to the coast lands around Bayonne and Bordeaux. That year the French laid siege to Chandos's
castle of Saint-Sauveur-le-Vicomte. The siege was as long and as elaborately organised as the
great siege of Calais. A ring of bastilles was erected round the doomed town, and cannon discharged
huge balls of stone against its ramparts. After nearly a year's siege the garrison agreed to
surrender on condition of a heavy payment. With the fall of the old home of the Harcourts the
English power in Normandy perished. There was still, it is true, the influence of Charles of
Navarre; but that desperate intriguer had compromised himself so much with both parties that
no confidence could be placed in him.

The misfortunes of the English inclined them to listen to proposals of peace. Though the papacy
was more frankly on the French side than ever, it had not lost its ancient solicitude to put
an end to the war. With that object Gregory XI, though eager to return to Rome, tarried in
the Rhone valley. Two of his legates appeared in Champagne at the time of John of Gaunt's abortive
expedition. From that moment offers of peace were constantly pressed on both sides. Lancaster
was at Calais, and Anjou was not far off at Saint-Omer, when definite proposals were exchanged.
Before long it was found more convenient that the envoys should meet face to face, and for
this reason the two dukes accepted the hospitality of Louis de Male, and held personal interviews
at Bruges. More than once the negotiations broke down altogether. At no time was there much
hope of a permanent peace. The English insisted on the terms of 1360, and the French demanded
the cession of Calais and the release of the unpaid ransom of King John. However, on June 27,
1375, a truce for a year was signed at Bruges, which was further extended until June, 1377,
just long enough to allow the old king to end his days in peace. France had once more to wrestle
with the companies set free by the truce, so that England could still enjoy possession of Calais,
Bordeaux, Bayonne, Brest, and the other scanty remnants of the cessions of the treaty of Calais.
Satisfied at putting an end to the war, Gregory XI betook himself to Rome. Thus the truce outlasted
the Babylonish captivity of the papacy as well as the life of Edward III.

CHAPTER XIX.

ENGLAND DURING THE LATTER YEARS OF EDWARD III.

Never was Edward's glory so high as in the years immediately succeeding the treaty of Calais.
The unspeakable misery of France heightened his magnificence by the strength of the contrast.
At eight-and-forty he retained the vigour and energy of his younger days, though surrounded
by a band of grown-up sons. In 1362 the king celebrated his jubilee, or his fiftieth birthday,
amidst feasts of unexampled splendour. Not less magnificent were the festivities that attended
the visits of the three kings, of France, Cyprus, and Scotland, in 1364.

Of the glories of these years we have detailed accounts from an eye-witness a writer competent,
above all other men of his time, to set down in courtly and happy phrase the wonders that delighted
his eyes. In 1361, John Froissart, an adventurous young clerk from Valenciennes, sought out
a career for himself in the household of his countrywoman, Queen Philippa, bearing with him
as his credentials a draft of a verse chronicle which was his first attempt at historical composition.
He came to England at the right moment. The older generation of historians had laid down their
pens towards the conclusion of the great war, and had left no worthy successors. The new-comer
was soon to surpass them, not in precision and sobriety, but in wealth of detail, in literary
charm, and in genial appreciation of the externals of his age. He recorded with an eye-witness's
precision of colour, though with utter indifference to exactness, the tournaments and fetes,
the banquets and the largesses of the noble lords and ladies of the most brilliant court in
Christendom. He celebrated the courtesy of the knightly class, their devotion to their word
of honour, the liberality with which captive foreigners was allowed to share in their sports
and pleasures, and the implicit loyalty with which nearly all the many captive knights repaid
the trust placed on their word. To him Edward was the most glorious of kings, and Philippa,
his patroness, the most beautiful, liberal, pious, and charitable of queens. For nine years
he enjoyed the queen's bounty, and described with loyal partiality the exploits of English
knights. With the death of his patroness and the beginning of England's misfortunes, the light-minded
adventurer sought another master in the French-loving Wenceslaus of Brabant. The first edition
of his chronicle, compiled when under the spell of the English court, contrasts strongly with
the second version written at Brussels at the instigation of the Luxemburg duke of Brabant.

Even Froissart saw that all was not well in England. The common people seemed to him proud,
cruel, disloyal, and suspicious. Their delight was in battle and slaughter, and they hated
the foreigner with a fierce hatred which had no counterpart in the cosmopolitan knightly class.
They were the terror of their lords and delighted in keeping their kings under restraint. The
Londoners were the most mighty of the English and could do more than all the rest of England.
Other writers tell the same tale. The same fierce patriotism that Froissart notes glows through
the rude battle songs in which Lawrence Minot sang the early victories of Edward from Halidon
Hill to the taking of Guînes, and inspired Geoffrey le Baker to repeat with absolute confidence
every malicious story which gossip told to the discredit of the French king and his people.
It was under the influence of this spirit that the steps were taken, which we have already
recorded, to extend the use of English, notably in the law courts. Yet the old bilingual habit
clave long to the English. Despite the statute of 1362, the lawyers continued to employ the
French tongue, until it crystallised into the jargon of the later Year Books or of Littleton's
Tenures. Under Edward III, however, French remained the living speech of many Englishmen. John
Gower wrote in French the earliest of his long poems. But he is a thorough Englishman for all
that. He writes in French, but, as he says, he writes for England.[1]

    [1] "O gentile Engleterre, a toi j'escrits," Mirour de
    l'Omme, in John Gower's Works, i., 378, ed. G.C. MaCaulay,
    to whom belongs the credit of recovering this long lost work.

It was characteristic of the patriotic movement of the reign of Edward III, that a new courtly
literature in the English language rivalled the French vernacular literature which as yet had
by no means ceased to produce fruit. The new type begins with the anonymous poems, "Sir Gawain
and the Green Knight," and the "Pearl". While Froissart was the chief literary figure at the
English court during the ten years after the treaty of Calais, his place was occupied in the
concluding decade of the reign by Geoffrey Chaucer, the first great poet of the English literary
revival. The son of a substantial London vintner, Chaucer spent his youth as a page in the
household of Lionel of Antwerp, from which he was transferred to the service of Edward himself.
He took part in more than one of Edward's French campaigns, and served in diplomatic missions
to Italy, Flanders, and elsewhere. His early poems reflect the modes and metres of the current
French tradition in an English dress, and only reach sustained importance in his lament on
the death of the Duchess Blanche of Lancaster, written about 1370. It is significant that the
favourite poet of the king's declining years was no clerk but a layman, and that the Tuscan
mission of 1373, which perhaps first introduced him to the treasures of Italian poetry, was
undertaken in the king's service. Thorough Englishman as Chaucer was, he had his eyes open
to every movement of European culture. His higher and later style begins with his study of
Dante, Petrarch, and Boccaccio. Though he wrote for Englishmen in their own tongue, his fame
was celebrated by the French poet, Eustace Deschamps, as the "great translator" who had sown
the flowers of French poesy in the realm of Aeneas and Brut the Trojan. His broad geniality
stood in strong contrast to the savage patriotism of Minot. In becoming national, English vernacular
art did not become insular. Chaucer wrote in the tongue of the southern midlands, the region
wherein were situated his native London, the two universities, the habitual residences of the
court, the chief seats of parliaments and councils, and the most frequented marts of commerce.
For the first time a standard English language came into being, largely displacing for literary
purposes the local dialects which had hitherto been the natural vehicles of writing in their
respective districts. The Yorkshireman, Wycliffe, the westcountryman, Langland, adopted before
the end of the reign the tongue of the capital for their literary language in preference to
the speech of their native shires. The language of the extreme south, the descendant of the
tongue of the West Saxon court, became the dialect of peasants and artisans. That a continuous
life was reserved for the idiom of the north country, was due to its becoming the speech of
a free Scotland, the language in which Barbour, Archdeacon of Aberdeen, commemorated for the
court of the first Stewart king the exploits of Robert Bruce and the Scottish war of independence.
The unity of England thus found another notable expression in the oneness of the popular speech.
And the evolution of the northern dialect into the "Scottish" of a separate kingdom showed
that, if England were united, English-speaking Britain remained divided.

Other arts indicate the same tendency. Even in the thirteenth century English Gothic architecture
differentiated itself pretty completely from its models in the Isle de France. The early fourteenth
century, the age of the so-called "decorated style," suggests in some ways a falling back to
the French types, though the prosperity of England and the desolation of France make the English
examples of fourteenth century building the more numerous and splendid. The occasional tendency
of the later "flowing" decorated towards "flamboyant" forms, to be seen in some of the churches
of Northamptonshire, marks the culminating point of this fresh approximation of French and
English architecture. But the division between the two countries brought about by war was illustrated
before the end of the reign in the growth of the most local of our medieval architectural types,
that "perpendicular" style which is so strikingly different from the "flamboyant" art of the
neighbouring kingdom. This specially English style begins early in the reign of Edward III,
when the cult of the murdered Edward of Carnarvon gave to the monks of St. Peter's, Gloucester,
the means to recast the massive columns and gloomy arcades of the eastern portions of their
romanesque abbey church after the lighter and brighter patterns in which Gloucester set the
fashion to all southern Britain. In the buildings of the later years of Edward's reign the
old "flowing decorated" and the newer and stiffer "perpendicular" grew up side by side. If
the two seem almost combined in the church of Edington, in Wiltshire, the foundation dedicated
in 1361 for his native village by Edward's chancellor, Bishop Edington of Winchester, the triumph
of the perpendicular is assured in the new choir which Archbishop Thoresby began for York Minster,
and in the reconstruction of the Norman cathedral of Winchester begun by Bishop Edington, and
completed when his greater successor, William of Wykeham, carried out in a more drastic way
the device already adopted at Gloucester of recasing the ancient structure so as to suit modern
tastes. The full triumph of the new style is apparent in Wykeham's twin foundations at Winchester
and Oxford. The separation of feeling between England and Scotland is now seen in architecture
as well as in language. When the perpendicular fashion was carrying all before it in the southern
realm, the Scottish builders erected their churches after the flamboyant type of their French
allies. Thus while the twelfth and thirteenth century structures of the northern and southern
kingdoms are practically indistinguishable, the differences between the two nations, which
had arisen from the Edwardian policy of conquest, expressed themselves ultimately in the striking
contrast between the flamboyant of Melrose or St. Giles' and the perpendicular of Winchester
or Windsor.

English patriotism, which had asserted itself in the literature and art of the people long
before it dominated courtly circles, continued to express itself in more popular forms than
even those of the poems of Chaucer. The older fashions of instructing the people were still
in vogue in the early part of Edward's reign. Richard Rolle, the hermit of Hampole, whose Prick
of Conscience and vernacular paraphrases of the Bible illustrate the older didactic literature,
was carried off in his Yorkshire cell in the year of the Black Death. The cycles of miracle
plays, which edified and amused the townsfolk of Chester and York, crystallised into a permanent
shape early in this reign, and were set forth with ever-increasing elaborateness by an age
bent on pageantry and amusement. The vernacular sermons and popular manuals of devotion increased
in numbers and copiousness. In this the time of the Black Death is, as in other aspects of
our story, a deep dividing line.

The note of increasing strain and stress is fully expressed in the earlier forms of The Vision
of Piers Plowman, which were composed before the death of Edward III. Its author, William Langland,
a clerk in minor orders, debarred by marriage from a clerical career, came from the Mortimer
estates in the march of Wales: but his life was mainly spent in London, and he wrote in the
tongue of the city of his adoption. The first form of the poem is dated 1362, the year of the
second visitation of the Black Death, while the troubles of the end of the reign perhaps inspired
the fuller edition which saw the light in 1377. It is a commonplace to contrast the gloomy
pictures drawn by Langland with the highly coloured pictures of contemporary society for which
Chaucer was gathering his materials. Yet this contrast may be pressed too far. Though Langland
had a keen eye to those miseries of the poor which are always with us, the impression of the
time gathered from his writings is not so much one of material suffering, as of social unrest
and discontent. The poor ploughman, who cannot get meat, still has his cheese, curds, and cream,
his loaf of beans and bran, his leeks and cabbage, his cow, calf, and cart mare.[1] The very
beggar demanded "bread of clean wheat" and "beer of the best and brownest," while the landless
labourer despised "night-old cabbage," "penny-ale," and bacon, and asked for fresh meat and
fish freshly fried.[2] There is plenty of rough comfort and coarse enjoyment in the England
through which "Long Will" stalked moodily, idle, hopeless, and in himself exemplifying many
of the evils which he condemned. The England of Langland is bitter, discontented, and sullen.
It is the popular answer to the class prejudice and reckless greed of the lords and gentry.
Langland's own attitude towards the more comfortable classes is much that of the self-assertive
and mutinous Londoner whom Froissart looked upon with such bitter prejudice. He boasts that
he was loath to do reverence to lords and ladies, or to those clad in furs with pendants of
silver, and refuses to greet "sergeants" with a "God save you". Every class of society is flagellated
in his scathing criticisms. He is no revolutionist with a new gospel of reform, but, though
content to accept the old traditions, he is the ruthless denouncer of abuses, and is thoroughly
filled with the spirit which, four years after the second recension of his book, found expression
in the Peasants Revolt of 1381. With all the archaism of his diction and metre, Langland, even
more than Chaucer, reflects the modernity of his age.

    [1] Vision of Piers Plowman, i.,220, ed. Skeat.

    [2] Ibid., i., 222.

Even the universities were growing more national, for the war prevented Oxford students from
seeking, after their English graduation, a wider career at Paris. William of Ockham, the last
of the great English schoolmen that won fame in the European rather than in the English world,
died about 1349 in the service of the Bavarian emperor. In the same year the plague swept away
Thomas Bradwardine, the "profound doctor," at the moment of his elevation to the throne of
Canterbury. Bradwardine, though a scholar of universal reputation, won his fame at Oxford without
the supplementary course at Paris, and lived all his career in his native land. As an English
university career became more self-sufficient, Oxford became the school of the politician and
the man of affairs as much as of the pure student. The new tendency is illustrated by the careers
of the brothers Stratford, both Oxford scholars, yet famous not for their writings but for
lives devoted to the service of the State, though rewarded by the highest offices of the Church.
His conspicuous position as a teacher of scholastic philosophy first brought John Wycliffe
into academic prominence. But he soon won a wider fame as a preacher in London, an adviser
of the court, an opponent of the "possessioner" monks, and of the forsworn friars, who, deserting
apostolic poverty, vied with the monks in covetousness. His attacks on practical abuses in
the Church marked him out as a politician as well as a philosopher. His earlier career ended
in 1374, the year in which he first became the king's ambassador, not long after proceeding
to the degree of doctor of divinity.[1] His later struggles must be considered in the light
of the political history of the concluding episodes of Edward's reign. In a few years we shall
find the Oxford champion abandoning the Latin language of universal culture, and appealing
to the people in homely English. With Wycliffe's entry upon his wider career, it is hardly
too much to say that Oxford ceased to be merely a part of the cosmopolitan training ground
of the schoolmen, and became in some fashion a national institution. Cambridge, too young and
obscure in earlier ages to have rivalled Oxford, first began to enjoy an increasing reputation.

    [1] This was before Dec. 26, 1373. See Twemlow in Engl. Hist.
    Review, xv, (1900), 529-530.

Hitherto culture had been not only cosmopolitan but clerical. Every university student and
nearly every professional man was a clerk. But education was becoming possible for laymen,
and there were already lay professions outside the clerical caste. The wide cultivation and
the vigorous literary output of laymen of letters like Chaucer and Cower are sufficient evidence
of this. But the best proof is the complete differentiation of the common lawyers from the
clergy. The inns of court of London became virtually a legal university, where highly trained
men studied a juristic system, which was not the less purely English in spirit because its
practitioners used the French tongue as their technical instrument. There were no longer lawyers
in England who, like Bracton, strove to base the law of the land on the forms and methods of
Roman jurisprudence. There were no longer kings, like Edward I., with Italian trained civilians
at their court ready to translate the law of England into imperialist forms. The canonist still
studied at Oxford or Cambridge, but his career was increasingly clerical, and the Church, unlike
the State, was unable to nationalise itself, though the whole career of Wycliffe and the strenuous
efforts of the kings and statesmen who passed the statutes of Provisors and Praemunire, showed
that some of the English clergy, and many of the English laity, were willing to make the effort.
English law, in divorcing itself from the universities and the clergy, became national as well
as lay. There were no longer any Weylands who concealed their clerical beginnings, and hid
away the subdeacon under the married knight and justice, the founder of a landowning family.
The lawyers of Edward's reign were frankly laymen, marrying and giving in marriage, establishing
new families that became as noble as any of the decaying baronial houses, and yet cherishing
a corporate ideal and common spirit as lively and real as those of any monastery or clerical
association.

In enumerating the many convergent tendencies which worked together in strengthening the national
life, we must not forget the growing importance of commerce. Merchant princes like the Poles
could rival the financial operations of Lombard or Tuscan, and climb into the baronial class.
The proud and mutinous temper of the Londoners was largely due to their ever-increasing wealth.
We are on the threshold of the careers of commercial magnates, like the Philpots and the Whittingtons.
Even when Edward III. was still on the throne, a London mayor of no special note, John Pyel,
could set up in his native Northamptonshire village of Irthlingborough a college and church
of remarkable stateliness and dignity. The growth of the wool trade, and its gradual transfer
to English hands, the development of the staple system, the rise of an English seaman class
that knew all the havens of Europe, the beginnings of the English cloth manufacture, all indicate
that English commerce was not only becoming more extensive, but was gradually emancipating
itself from dependence on the foreigner. Thus before the end of Edward's reign England was
an intensely national state, proudly conscious of itself, and haughtily contemptuous of the
foreigner, with its own language, literature, style in art, law, universities, and even the
beginnings of a movement towards the nationalisation of the Church. The cosmopolitanism of
the earlier Middle Ages was everywhere on the wane. A modern nation had arisen out of the old
world-state and world-spirit. In the England of Edward III., Chaucer, and Wycliffe, we have
reached the consummation of the movement whose first beginnings we have traced in the early
storms of the reign of Henry III. It is in the development of this tendency that the period
from 1216 to 1377 possesses such unity as it has.

During the years of peace after the treaty of Calais, Edward III. completed the scheme for
the establishment of his family begun with the grant of Aquitaine to the Black Prince. The
state of the king's finances made it impossible for him to provide for numerous sons and daughters
from the royal exchequer, and the system of appanages had seldom been popular or successful
in England. Edward found an easier way of endowing his offspring by politic marriages that
transferred to his sons the endowments and dignities of the great houses, which, in spite of
lavish creations of new earldoms, were steadily dying out in the male line. Some of his daughters
in the same way were married into baronial families whose attachment to the throne would, it
was believed, be strengthened by intermarriage with the king's kin; while others, wedded to
foreign princes, helped to widen the circle of continental alliances on which he never ceased
to build large hopes. Collateral branches of the royal family were pressed into the same system,
which was so systematically ordered that it has passed for a new departure in English history.
This is, however, hardly the case. Many previous kings, notably Edward I., carried out a policy
based upon similar lines, and only less conspicuous by reason of the smaller number of children
that they had to provide for. The descendants of Henry III. and Edward I. in no wise kept true
to the monarchical tradition, but rather gave distinction to the baronial opposition by ennobling
it with royal alliances. But the martial and vigorous policy of Edward III. had at least the
effect of reducing to inactivity the tradition of constitutional opposition which had been
the common characteristic of successive generations of the royal house of Lancaster, the chief
collateral branch of the royal family. Subsequent history will show that the Edwardian family
settlement was as unsuccessful as that of his grandfather. The alliances which Edward built
up brought neither solidarity to the royal house, nor strength to the crown, nor union to the
baronage. But the working out of this, as of so many of the new developments of the later part
of Edward's reign, can only be seen after his death.

Edward's eldest son became, as we have seen, Duke of Cornwall, Prince of Wales, and Earl of
Chester even before he received Aquitaine. He was the first of the continuous line of English
princes of Wales, for Edward III. never bore that title. The Black Prince's marriage with his
cousin, Joan of Kent, was a love-match, and the estates of his bride were scarcely an important
consideration to the lord of Wales and Cheshire. Yet the only child of the unlucky Edmund of
Woodstock was no mean heiress, bringing with her the estates of her father's earldom of Kent,
besides the inheritance of her mother's family, the Wakes of Liddell and Lincolnshire. The
estates and earldom afterwards passed to Joan's son by a former husband, and the Holland earls
of Kent formed a minor family connexion which closely supported the throne of Richard of Bordeaux.
Though their paternal inheritance was that of Lancashire squires, the Hollands won a leading
place in the history of the next generation.

Edward III.'s second son, William of Hatfield, died in infancy. For his third son, Lionel of
Antwerp, when still in his childhood, Edward found the greatest heiress of her time, Elizabeth,
the only daughter of William de Burgh, the sixth lord of Connaught and third Earl of Ulster,
the representative of one of the chief Anglo-Norman houses in Ireland. Even before his marriage,
Lionel was made Earl of Ulster, a title sunk after 1362 in the novel dignity of the duchy of
Clarence. This title was chosen because Elizabeth de Burgh was a grand-daughter of Elizabeth
of Clare, the sister of the last Clare Earl of Gloucester, and a share of the Gloucester inheritance
passed through her to the young duke. His marriage gave Lionel a special relation to Ireland,
where, however, his two lordships of Ulster and Connaught were largely in the hands of the
native septs, and where the royal authority had never won back the ground lost during the vigorous
onslaught of Edward Bruce on the English power. In 1342 the estates of Ireland forwarded to
Edward a long statement of the shortcomings of the English administration of the island.[1]
No effective steps were taken to remedy those evils until, in 1361, Edward III. sent Lionel
as governor to Ireland, declaring "that our Irish dominions have been reduced to such utter
devastation and ruin that they may be totally lost, if our subjects there are not immediately
succoured". Lionel's most famous achievement was the statute of Kilkenny. This law prohibited
the intermixture of the Anglo-Normans in Ireland with the native Irish, which was rapidly undermining
the basis of English rule and confounding Celts and Normans in a nation, ever divided indeed
against itself, but united against the English. Lionel wearied of a task beyond his strength.
His wife's early death lessened the ties which bound him to her land, and he went back to England
declaring that he would never return to Ireland if he could help it. His succession as governor
by a Fitzgerald showed that the plan of ruling Ireland through England was abandoned by Edward
III. in favour of the cheaper but fatal policy of concealing the weakness of the English power
by combining it with the strength of the strongest of the Anglo-Norman houses. Under this faulty
system, the statute of Kilkenny became inoperative almost from its enactment.

    [1] Cal. of Close, Rolls, 1341-43, pp. 508-16.

The widowed Duke of Clarence made a second great marriage. The Visconti, tyrants of Milan,
were willing to pay heavily for the privilege of intermarriage with the great reigning families
of Europe, and neither Edward III. nor the French king could resist the temptation of alliance
with a family that was able to endow its daughters so richly. Accordingly, the Duke of Clarence
became in 1368 the husband of Violante Visconti, the daughter of Galeazzo, lord of Pavia, and
the niece of Bernabò, signor of Milan, the bitter foe of the Avignon papacy. Five months later,
Lionel was carried away by a sudden sickness, and thus the Visconti marriage brought little
fruit to England. Lionel's only child, Philippa, the offspring of his first marriage, was married,
just before her father's death, to Edmund Mortimer, Earl of March, great-grandson of the traitor
earl beheaded in 1330. Lionel's death added to the vast inheritance of the Mortimers and Joinvilles
the lands and claims of Ulster and Clarence, and so Edward III.'s magnanimity in reviving the
earldom of March after the disgrace of 1330 was rewarded by the devolution of its estates to
his grand-daughter's child. The Earl of March was invested with a new political importance,
for his wife was the nearest representative of Edward III, save for the dying Black Prince
and his sickly son. The fierce blood and broad estates of the great marcher family continued
to give importance to Philippa's descendants; and finally the house of Mortimer mounted the
throne in the person of Edward IV.

The estates of Lancaster were annexed to the reigning branch of the royal house by the marriage
in 1359 of John of Gaunt, Edward's third surviving son, with Blanche of Lancaster, the heiress
of Duke Henry, who became, after her sister Maud's death, the sole inheritor of the duchy of
Lancaster. In 1362 John, who had hitherto been Earl of Richmond, yielded up this dignity to
the younger John of Montfort, its rightful heir, and was created Duke of Lancaster at the same
time that Lionel was made Duke of Clarence. Ten years after her marriage Blanche died, leaving
John a son, Henry of Derby, the future Henry IV., whose wedding, after his grandfather's death,
to one of the Bohun co-heiresses brought part of the estates of another great house within
the grasp of Edward III.'s descendants. Moreover, the other Bohun co-heiress became in 1376
the wife of Thomas of Woodstock, the youngest of Edward's sons, the Gloucester of the next
reign. The three Bohun earldoms of Hereford, Essex, and Northampton were thus absorbed by the
old king's children and grandchildren. John of Gaunt, like Lionel, lost his wife early and
sought a second bride abroad. In 1372 he married Constance of Castile, a natural daughter of
the deceased Peter the Cruel. Henceforth he was summoned to parliament as King of Castile and
Leon as well as Duke of Lancaster, though it was not until the next reign that he took any
actual steps to assert his claim.

John's next younger brother, Edmund of Langley, Earl of Cambridge in 136% [1368?] married Isabella,
Constance of Castile's younger sister. He was the future Duke of York, and as the only one
of Edward III.'s sons who did not marry an English heiress, was the most scantily endowed of
them all. The union of his descendants with those of Lionel of Clarence gave the house of York
a territorial importance which was, as we have seen, mainly derived from the Mortimer inheritance.
Thus the two lines of descendants of Edward III. which had most future significance were those
which represented through heiresses the rival houses of Lancaster and March. The history of
the next century shows that the rivalry was only made more formidable by the connexion of both
these lines with the royal family. In this, the most striking triumph of the Edwardian policy,
is also the most signal indication of its failure. From it arose the factions of York and Lancaster.

The legislation of the years of peace, from 1360 to 1369, is largely anti-papal and economic,
and is so intimately connected with the laws of the preceding period that it has been dealt
with in an earlier chapter. But however anti-papal, and therefore anti-clerical, some of Edward's
laws were, his government was still mainly controlled by great ecclesiastical statesmen. Simon
Langham, though a Benedictine monk, had as chancellor demanded in 1366 the opinion of the estates
as to the unlawfulness of the Roman tribute, and the clerical estate, if it did not help forward
the anti-Roman legislation, was content to stand aside, and let it take effect without protest.
Shortly after taking part in the movement against papal tribute, Langham was removed from the
see of Ely to that of Canterbury in succession to Islip. His conversion into a purely monastic
college of his predecessor's mixed foundation for seculars and regulars in Canterbury Hall,
Oxford, showed a bias which might have been expected in a former abbot of Westminster, while
his willingness to follow in the footsteps of Kilwardby, and exchange his archbishopric for
the dignity of a cardinal and residence at Avignon showed that he was a papalist as well as
an English patriot. His successor as primate, appointed in 1369 by papal provision, was William
Whittlesea, a nephew of Archbishop Islip, whose weak health and colourless character made of
little account his five years' tenure of the metropolitical dignity. With Canterbury in such
feeble hands, the leadership in the Church and primacy in the councils of the crown passed
to stronger men: such as John Thoresby, Archbishop of York till 1373; Thomas Brantingham, treasurer
from 1369 to 1371, and Bishop of Exeter from 1370 to 1394; and above all to Edward's old servant,
William of Wykeham, chancellor from 1367 to 1371, and Bishop of Winchester, in succession to
Edington, from 1367 until 1404. Wykeham was a strenuous and hard-working servant of the crown,
a vigorous and careful ruler of his diocese, a mighty pluralist, a magnificent builder, and
the most bountiful and original of all the pious founders of his age. "Everything," says Froissart,
"was done through him and without him nothing was done."[1]

    [1] Froissart, Chroniques, ed. Luce, viii., 101.

The year of the breach of the treaty of Calais was also marked by the third great visitation
of the Black Death, and the death of Queen Philippa. Parliament cordially welcomed the resumption
by Edward of the title of King of France, and made liberal subsidies for the prosecution of
the campaign. Disappointment was all the more bitter when each campaign ended in disaster,
and in the parliament of February, 1371, the storm burst. The circumstances of the ministerial
crisis of 1341 were almost exactly renewed. As on the previous occasion, the state was in the
hands of great ecclesiastics, whose conservative methods were thought inadequate for circumstances
so perilous. John Hastings, second Earl of Pembroke of his house, a gallant young warrior and
the intended son-in-law of the king, made himself the spokesman of the anti-clerical courtiers,
probably with the good-will of the king. At Pembroke's instigation the earls, barons, and commons
drew up a petition that, "inasmuch as the government of the realm has long been in the hands
of the men of Holy Church, who in no case can be brought to account for their acts, whereby
great mischief has happened in times past and may happen in times to come, may it therefore
please the king that laymen of his own realm be elected to replace them, and that none but
laymen henceforth be chancellor, treasurer, barons of the exchequer, clerk of privy seal, or
other great officers of the realm ".[1] Edward fell in with this request. Wykeham quitted the
chancery, and Brantingham the treasury. Of their lay successors the new chancellor, Sir Robert
Thorpe, chief-justice of the court of common pleas, was a close friend of the Earl of Pembroke,
while the new treasurer, Sir Richard le Scrope of Bolton, a Yorkshire warrior, represented
the interests of John of Gaunt, whose long absences abroad did not prevent his ultimately becoming
a strong supporter of the lay policy. A subsidy of £50,000 and a statute that no new tax should
be laid on wool without parliamentary assent concluded the work of this parliament.

    [1] Rot. Pad., ii., 304.

The lay ministers did not prove as efficient as their clerical predecessors. Want of acquaintance
with administrative routine led them to assess the parliamentary grant so badly that an irregular
reassembling of part of the estates was necessary, when it was found that the ministers had
ludicrously over-estimated the number of parishes in England among which the grant of £50,000
had been equally divided. Meanwhile the French war was proceeding worse than before. Thorpe
died in 1372, and another lay chief-justice, Sir John Knyvett, succeeded him in the chancery.
Pembroke, as we have seen, was taken prisoner to Santander within a few weeks of Thorpe's death.
Fresh taxation was made necessary by every fresh defeat, and the clergy, who looked upon the
misfortunes of the anti-clerical earl as God's punishment for his enmity to Holy Church, had
their revenge against their lawyer supplanters, for the parliament of 1372 petitioned that
lawyers, who used their position in parliament to advance their clients' affairs, should not
be eligible for election as knights of the shire. Next year, the discontent of the estates
came to a head after the failure of John of Gaunt's march from Calais to Bordeaux. The commons,
by that time definitely organised as an independent house, answered the demand for fresh supplies
by requesting the lords to appoint a committee of their number to confer with them on the state
of the realm. The composition of the committee was not one that favoured the existing administration,
and, guided by men like William of Wykeham, it made only a limited and conditional grant, which
was strictly appropriated to the payment of the expenses of the war. The anti-clerical party
was still strong enough to send up denunciations of papal assumptions, and the anxiety to adjust
the relations between the papacy and the crown led to some abortive negotiations with the legates
of Gregory XI at Bruges in 1374, which were mainly memorable for the appearance of John Wycliffe
as one of the royal commissioners. Disgust at the attitude of the commons may well have postponed
the next parliament for nearly three years. But the truce of Bruges made frequent parliaments
less necessary.

The truce brought John of Gaunt back to England, and the rivalry between him and his elder
brother, which had begun during their last joint campaigns in France, crystallised into definite
parties the discordant tendencies that had been well marked since the crisis of 1371. The old
king was a mere pawn in the game. His health had been broken by the debauchery and frivolity
to which he had abandoned himself after the death of Queen Philippa. He was now entirely under
the influence of Alice Perrers, a Hertfordshire squire's daughter, whose venality, greed, and
shamelessness made her the fit tool for the self-seeking ring of courtiers. John of Gaunt sought
her support as the best means of withdrawing the old king from the influence of the Prince
of Wales, and the lay ministers were glad to maintain themselves in their tottering power by
means of such powerful allies. Prominent among their party were courtier nobles--such as the
chamberlain, Lord Latimer, and the steward of the household, Lord Neville of Raby,--and rich
London financiers, chief among whom was Richard Lyons, men who made exorbitant profits out
of the necessities of the administration. Faction sought to appear more respectable by professions
of zeal for reform. The cry against papal encroachments was extended to a denunciation of the
wealth and power of the clergy. John Wycliffe was called from his Oxford classrooms to expound
the close connexion between dominion and grace, and to teach from London pulpits that the ungodly
bishop or priest has no right to the temporal possessions given him on trust for the discharge
of his high mission.[1]

    [1] Until recently all historians have dated the beginning of
    Wycliffe's political career from 1366, but J. Loserth has
    proved that 1374, the date of the last demand for the Roman
    tribute, to be the right year. See his Studien zur
    Kirchen-politik Englands im 14ten Jahrhundert, in
    Sitzungsberichte der Académie der Wissenschaften in Wien,
    philos. histor. classe, cxxxvi., 1897, and, more briefly, in
    Engl. Hist. Review, xi. (1896), 319-328.

A vigorous opposition to the dominant faction was formed. At its head was the Black Prince.
Hardly less important and much more active than the dying hero of Poitiers was Edmund Mortimer,
Earl of March, the husband of Philippa of Clarence, and the father of the little Roger Mortimer
whom nothing but the uncertain lives of the Prince of Wales and the sickly Richard of Bordeaux
separated from the English throne. Hereditary antagonism accentuated incompatibility of personal
interests. The ancient feuds of the houses of Mortimer and Lancaster still lived on in the
hostility of their representatives. The understanding between the Prince of Wales and the Earl
of March seems to have been complete. They had as their most powerful supporters the outraged
dignitaries of the Church, who saw themselves kept out of office and threatened in their temporalities
by the dominant faction. William of Wykeham, who had been the guardian of the Earl of March
during his long minority, was the most experienced and wary of the clerical opposition to the
lawyers and courtiers of the Lancaster faction. He had an eager and enthusiastic backer in
the young and high-born Bishop of London, William Courtenay, the son of the Earl of Devon,
and through his mother, Margaret Bohun, a great-grandson of Edward I. Office and descent combined
to make Bishop Courtenay the custodian of the constitutional tradition, which was equally strong
among the great baronial houses of ancient descent and such highly placed ecclesiastics as
were zealous for the nation as well as for their order. His support was the more necessary
since Simon of Sudbury, who in 1375 succeeded Whittlesea on the throne of St. Augustine, was
a weak and time-serving politician.

The storm, which had long been brewing, burst at last in the parliament of April, 1376. Of
the acts of this memorable assembly, famous as the Good Parliament, and of the other concluding
troubles of the reign we are fortunate in possessing not only copious official records, but
a minute and highly dramatic account from the pen of a St. Alban's monk, who, alone of the
monastic chroniclers of his age, represented the spirit which, in the days of Matthew Paris,
made the great Hertfordshire abbey so famous a school of historiography.[1]

    [1] Chron. Angliæ, 1328-88, ed. E.M. Thompson (Rolls Ser.).
    Compare Mr. S. Armitage-Smith's John of Gaunt for an
    unfavourable estimate of its value.

The Good Parliament showed from the beginning a strong animosity against the courtiers. The
time was not yet come when the commons could take the initiative, or supply leaders from its
own ranks, and even among the commons capacity was unequally divided. Authority and influence
were exclusively with the knights of the shire, and the citizens and burgesses were content
to allow the country gentry to speak and act in their name. The knights of the shire demanded
that, in accordance with the precedent of 1373, a committee of magnates should be associated
with them in determining the policy to be adopted. The lords spiritual and temporal were as
eager as the knights to attack the government, and a committee, of which the leading spirits
included the Earl of March and the Bishop of London, supplied the element of direction and
initiation in which the commons were lacking. The resolution which prevailed was shown by the
estates agreeing to make no grant until grievances had been redressed, and by the choice of
Sir Peter de la Mare as spokesman of the commons before the king. Sir Peter was elected, we
are told, because he possessed abundant wisdom and eloquence, and enough boldness to say what
was in his mind, regardless of the good-will of the great. Perhaps a further and more weighty
reason was that he was steward of the Earl of March. He was the first person to hold an office
indistinguishable in all essentials from that of the later Speaker. Under his guidance the
commons worked out an elaborate policy of revenge and reform. The contempt with which John
of Gaunt and the courtiers had at first regarded their action, gave place to fear. The duke
found it prudent to stand aside, while a clean sweep of the administration was made.

Charges were brought against the leading ministers of state, after a fashion in which the constitutional
historian sees the beginnings of the process of the removal of great offenders by impeachment.
Lord Latimer was the first victim. He had appropriated the king's money to his own uses; he
had shown remissness and treachery during the last campaign in Brittany; he had taken bribes;
he was, in a word, "useless to king and kingdom". His fate was promptly shared by Lyons, the
London merchant, the accomplice of his frauds, who had availed himself of his court influence
to make a "corner" in nearly all imported articles, to the impoverishment of the common people
and the disorganisation of trade. Lord Neville, whose eager partisanship of Latimer had led
him to insult Sir Peter de la Mare, was threatened with similar proceedings. Even Alice Perrers
was attacked, though, says the chronicler, the natural affection of Englishmen for their king
was so great that they were slow to molest the lady whom the king loved. However, Alice's unblushing
interference with the course of justice, her appearance in the courts at Westminster, sitting
on the judges' bench, clamouring for the condemnation of her enemies and the acquittal of her
friends, roused the knights of the shire to action. An ordinance against women being allowed
to practise in the law courts was made the pretext for her removal from court, and Alice, fearful
that worse might happen, took oath that she would have no further dealings with the king. Meantime
Latimer and Lyons were condemned to forfeiture and imprisonment.

In the midst of these proceedings the knights lost their strongest support by the death of
the Black Prince on June 8. John of Gaunt at once went down to the house of commons, and boldly
suggested that the English should follow the example of the French and allow no woman to become
heiress of the kingdom. This was a direct assertion of his own claims to stand next to the
throne after Richard of Bordeaux, and before Roger Mortimer. Alarmed at the blow thus levelled
against their chief remaining champion, the knights courageously held to their position. "The
king," said they, "though old is still healthy, and may outlive us all. Moreover he has an
heir in the ten-year-old prince Richard. While these are alive there is no need to discuss
the question of the succession." They completed the drawing up of the long list of petitions,
whose grudging and partial acceptance by the crown made the roll of the parliament of 1376
memorable as asserting principles, if not as vindicating practical ends. They forced Lancaster
to agree to a council of twelve peers nominated in parliament to act as a standing committee
of advisers, without which the king might do nothing of any importance. After this revival
of the methods of the Mad Parliament and the lords ordainers, the Good Parliament separated
on July 6. It had sat longer than any previous parliament of which there is record. It had
persevered to the end in the teeth of discouragements of all kinds, and, even after his brother's
death, Duke John dared not lift up his hand against it so long as the session continued.

When the estates separated Lancaster threw off the mask. The king, sunk in extreme dotage,
was entirely in the hands of his unscrupulous son. The old man was kept quiet by the return
of Alice Perrers to court. She had sworn on the rood never to see the king again, but the prelates
were "like dumb dogs unable to bark" against her; and no effort was made to prosecute her for
perjury. Latimer and Lyons returned from their luxurious imprisonment in the Tower to their
places at court. The duke roundly declared that the late parliament was no parliament at all.
No statute was based upon its petitions, the council of twelve was rudely dissolved, and Sir
Peter de la Mare was imprisoned in Nottingham castle. William of Wykeham was deprived of his
temporalities, and the rumour spread that his disgrace was due to his possession of a state
secret, revealed to him by the dying queen Philippa, that John of Gaunt was no true son of
the royal pair but a changeling. So timid was the disgraced bishop that he vied with the weak
primate in his subserviency to Alice. The Earl of March, who was marshal of England, was ordered
to inspect the fortresses beyond sea, whereupon, fearing a plot to assassinate him, he resigned
his office, "preferring," says a friend, "to lose his marshal's staff rather than his life".
The powerful north-country lord, Henry Percy, who had hitherto acted with the opposition, was
bribed by the office of marshal to join the Lancastrian party.

Grave difficulties still beset the government, and in January, 1377, John of Gaunt had to face
another parliament. Every precaution was taken to pack the commons with his partisans. Of the
knights of the shire of the Good Parliament only eight were members of its successor,[1] while
in the place of the imprisoned De la Mare, Sir Thomas Hungerford, steward of the Duke of Lancaster,
was chosen Speaker, on this occasion by that very name. A packed committee of lords was assigned
to advise the commons. In these circumstances it was not difficult to procure the reversal
of the acts against Alice Perrers and Latimer, and the grant of a poll tax of a groat a head.
The only measure of conciliation was a general pardon, a pretext for which was found in the
jubilee of the king's accession. From this William of Wykeham was expressly excepted.

    [1] Return of Members of Parliament, pt. i., 193-97; Chron.
    Angliæ, p. 112, understates the case.

The convocation of Canterbury proved less accommodating than the parliament. Under the able
leadership of Bishop Courtenay, it took up the cause of the Bishop of Winchester, refused to
join in a grant of money until he had taken his place in convocation, and, triumphing at last
over the time-serving of Sudbury and the hesitation of Wykeham himself, persuaded the bishop
to join their deliberations. Lancaster met the opposition of convocation by calling to his
aid the Oxford doctor whom the clergy had already begun to look upon as the enemy of the privileges
of their order. Wycliffe was not as yet under suspicion of direct dogmatic heresy. He had not
yet clothed himself in the armour of his Balliol predecessor, Fitzralph, to wage war against
the mendicant orders. But he had already formulated his theory that dominion was founded on
grace, had declared that the pope had no right to excommunicate any one, or if he had that
any simple priest could absolve the culprit from his sentence, and he had shown a hatred so
bitter of clerical worldliness and clerical property that he was looked upon as the special
enemy of the great land-holding prelates and of the "possessioner" monks, whose lands, he maintained,
could be resumed by the representatives of the donors at their will. The strenuous advocate
for reducing the clergy to apostolic poverty was not likely to find favour among the prelates.
Wycliffe's only clerical supporters at this stage were the mendicant friars, from whose characteristic
opinions as regards "evangelical poverty" he never at any time swerved.[1] He was, however,
eloquent and zealous, and he had a following. Fear either of Wycliffe or of his mendicant allies
forced the bishops to take decisive action. Even Sudbury awoke, "as from deep sleep".[2] The
duke's dangerous supporter was summoned to answer before the bishops at St. Paul's.

    [1] Shirley (preface to Fasciculi Zizaniorum, Rolls Ser., p.
    xxvi.) thought that Wycliffe was "the sworn foe of the
    mendicants" in 1377, and E.M. Thompson's emphatic words
    repudiating the contrary statement of the St. Alban's writer,
    Chron. Anglice, p. liii., illustrate the view prevalent in
    England in 1874. Lechler's Wiclif und die Vorgeschichte der
    Reformation, published in 1873 proves that it was not until
    Wycliffe denied the doctrine of transubstantiation in 1379 or
    1380 that the friars deserted him.

    [2] Chron. Anglice, p. 117.

On February 19, Wycliffe appeared in Courtenay's cathedral. Four mendicant doctors of divinity,
chosen by Lancaster, came with him to defend him against the "possessioners," while the Duke
of Lancaster himself, and Henry Percy, the new marshal, also accompanied him to overawe the
bishops by their authority. The court was to be held in the lady chapel at the east end of
the cathedral, and Wycliffe and his friends found some difficulty in making their way through
the dense crowd that filled the spacious nave and aisles. Percy, irritated at the pressure
of the throng, began to force it back in virtue of his office. Courtenay ordered that the marshal
should exercise no authority in his cathedral. Thereupon Percy in a rage declared that he would
act as marshal in the church, whether the bishop liked it or not. When the lady chapel was
reached, there was further disputing as to whether Wycliffe should sit or stand, and Lancaster
taunted Courtenay for trusting overmuch to the greatness of his family. When the bishop replied
with equal spirit, John muttered: "I would liefer drag him out of his church by the hair of
his head than put up with such insolence". The words were overheard, and the Londoners, who
hated the duke, broke into open riot at this insult to their bishop. It was rumoured that the
duke had come to St. Paul's, hot from an attack on the liberties of the city that very morning
in parliament. The court broke up in wild confusion, and the riot spread from church to city.
Next day Percy's house was pillaged, and John's palace of the Savoy attacked. The duke and
the marshal were forced to seek the protection of their opponent, the Princess of Wales, at
Kennington. The followers of Lancaster could only escape rough treatment by hiding away their
lord's badges. The citizens cried that the Bishop of Winchester and Peter de la Mare should
have a fair trial. At last the personal authority of Bishop Courtenay restored his unruly flock
to order. The old king performed his last public act by soothing the spokesmen of the citizens
with the pleasant words and easy grace of which he still was master. The Princess of Wales
used her influence for peace, and matters were smoothed over.

At some risk of personal humiliation, Lancaster secured a substantial triumph. Convocation
followed the lead of parliament and gave an ample subsidy. William of Wykeham purchased the
restoration of his temporalities by an unworthy deference to Alice Perrers. Wycliffe remained
powerful, flattered, and consulted, though his enemies had already drawn up secret articles
against him, which they had forwarded to the papal curia. Perhaps in the rapidly declining
health of the king all parties saw that their real interest lay in the postponement of a crisis.

In June Edward lay on his deathbed at Sheen. To the last his talk was all of hawking and hunting,
and his mistress carefully kept from him all knowledge of his desperate condition. When he
sank into his last lethargy, his courtiers deserted him, and Alice Perrers took to flight after
robbing him of the very rings on his fingers. A simple priest, brought to the bedside by pity,
performed for the half-conscious king the last offices of religion. Edward was just able to
kiss the cross and murmur "Jesus have mercy". On June 21, 1377, he breathed his last.

With Edward's death we break off a narrative whose course is but half run. John of Gaunt's
rule was not over; Wycliffe was advancing from discontent to revolt; Chaucer was yet to rise
for a higher flight; Langland had not yet put his complaint into its permanent form; the French
war was renewed almost on the day of Edward's death; popular irritation against bad government,
and social and economic repression were still preparing for the revolt of 1381. With all its
defects the age of Edward is preeminently a strong age. Greedy, self-seeking, rough, and violent
it may be; its passions and rivalries combined to make futile the exercise of its strength;
it sounded the revolutionary note of all abrupt ages of transition, and it ends in disaster
and demoralisation at home and abroad. But government is not everything, and least of all in
the Middle Ages when what was then thought vigorous government appears miserably weak to modern
notions. The strong rule decayed with the failure of the king's personal vigour. The ministers
of Edward's dotage could not hold France nor even keep England quiet. England had grown impatient
of the rule of a despot, though she was not yet able to govern herself after a constitutional
fashion. It is in the incompatibility of the political ideals of royal authority and constitutional
control, not less than in the want of purpose of her ruler and in the factions of her nobles
that the explanation of the period must be sought. The age of Edward III. has been alternatively
decried and exalted. Both verdicts are true, but neither contains the whole truth. The explanation
of both is to be found in the annals of a later age.

APPENDIX.

ON AUTHORITIES.

(1216-1377.)

Our two main sources of knowledge for medieval history are records and chronicles. Chronicles
are more accessible, easier to study, more continuous, readable, and coloured than records
can generally be. Yet the record far excels the chronicle in scope, authority, and objectivity,
and a prime characteristic of modern research is the increasing reliance on the record rather
than the chronicle as the sounder basis of historical investigation. The medieval archives
of England, now mainly collected in the Public Record Office, are unrivalled by those of any
other country. From the accession of Henry III. several of the more important classes of records
have become copious and continuous, while in the course of the reign nearly all the chief groups
of documents have made a beginning. The whole of the period 1216 to 1377 can therefore be well
studied in them.

A large proportion of our archives is taken up with common forms, technicalities, and petty
detail. It will never be either possible or desirable to print the mass of them in extenso,
and most of the efforts made to render them accessible have taken the form of calendars, catalogues,
and inventories. Such attempts began with the costly and unsatisfactory labours of the Record
Commission (dissolved in 1836); and in recent years the work has again been taken up and pursued
on better lines. The folio volumes of the Record Commission only remain so far of value as
they have not been superseded by the more scholarly octavo calendars which are now being issued
under the direction of the deputy-keeper of the records. These latter are all accompanied by
copious indices which, though not always to be trusted implicitly, immensely facilitate the
use of them. The records were preserved by the various royal courts. Of special importance
for the political historian are the records of the Chancery and Exchequer.

Prominent among the Chancery records are the PATENT ROLLS, strips of parchment sewn together
continuously for each regnal year, whereon are inscribed copies of the letters patent of the
sovereign, so called because they were sent out open, with the great seal pendent. Beginning
in 1200, they present a continuous series throughout all our period, except for 23 and 24 Henry
III. The publication of the complete Latin text of the Patent Rolls of Henry III. is now in
progress, and two volumes have been issued, including respectively the years 1216-1225 and
1225-1232. From the accession of Edward I. onwards the bulk of the rolls renders the method
of a calendar in English more desirable. The Calendars of the Patent Rolls are now complete
from 1272 to 1324 and from 1327 to 1348 (Edward I., 4 vols.; Edward II., 4 vols.; Edward III.,
7 vols.). For the years not thus yet dealt with the unsatisfactory Calendarium Rotulorum Patentium
(1802, fol.) may still sometimes be of service.

The letters close, or sealed letters addressed to individuals, usually of inferior public interest
to the letters patent are preserved in the CLOSE ROLLS, compiled in the same fashion as the
Patent Rolls. The whole extant rolls from 1204 to 1227 are printed in Rotuli Literarum Clausarum
(2 vols. fol., 1833 and 1844, Rec. corn.), and it is proposed to continue the integral publication
of the text for the rest of Henry III.'s reign on the same plan as that of the Patent Rolls.
One volume of this continuation, 1227-1231 (8vo, 1902), has been issued. For the subsequent
periods a calendar in English is being prepared similar in type to the Calendar of Patent Rolls.
The periods at present covered by the Calendar of Close Rolls (1892-1905) are, Edward I., 1272-1296
(3 vols.): Edward II., the whole of the reign (4 vols.), and Edward III., 1327-1349 (8 vols.).

A third series of records preserved by the Chancery officials is the ROLLS OF PARLIAMENT, including
the petitions, pleas, and other parliamentary proceedings. None of these are extant before
1278, and the series for the succeeding century is often interrupted. Many of them are printed
in the first two folios (vol. i., Edward I. and II.; vol. ii., Edward III.) of Rotuli Parliamentorum
(1767-1777). A copious index volume was issued in 1832. A specimen of what may still be looked
for is to be found in Professor Maitland's edition of one of the earliest rolls of parliament
in Memoranda de Parliamento (1305) (Rolls series, 1893) with an admirable introduction. For
the reigns of Edward I. and II. the deficiencies of the published rolls are supplemented by
SIR F. PALGRAVE'S Parliamentary Writs and Writs of Military Service (vol. i., 1827, Edward
I.; vol. ii., 1834, Edward II., fol., Rec. Corn.) with alphabetical digests and indices.

Formal grants under the great seal called Charters, characterised by a "salutation" clause,
the names of attesting witnesses, and, under Henry III. after 1227, by the final formula data
per manum nostram apud, etc., and implying normally the presence of the king, are contained
in the CHARTER ROLLS, extant from the reign of John onwards. They are roughly analysed in the
Calendarium Rotulorum Chartarum (1803, Rec. Com.); and the Rotuli Chartarum (fol., 1837, Rec.
Corn.) contains the rolls in extenso up to 1216, Vol. i., 1226-1257, of an English Calendar
of Charter Rolls, printing some of the documents in full, was published in 1903.

The documents formerly known as ESCHEAT ROLLS, or INQUISITIONES POST MORTEM, are concerned
with the inquiries made by the Crown on the death of every landholder as to the extent and
character of his holding. Some of the information contained in these inquests was made accessible
in the Calendarium Inquisitionum sive Eschætarum (vol. i., Henry III., Edward I. and II., 1806;
vol. ii., Edward III., 1808, fol., Rec. Corn.). The errors and omissions of these volumes were
partially remedied for the reigns of Henry III. and Edward I. by C. ROBERTS'S Calendarium Genealogicum
(2 vols. 8vo, 1865). A scholarly guide to all this class of documents has been begun in the
new Calendar of Inquisitions Post Mortem and other Analogous Documents, of which vol. i. (Henry
III.) was issued in 1904. The first volume of a separate list of the analogous inquisitions
Ad pod damnum is also announced.

Of the FINE ROLLS containing the records of fines[1] made with the Crown for licence to alienate,
exemption from service, wardships, pardons, etc., those of Henry III. have been made accessible
in C. ROBERTS'S Excerpta e Rotulis Finium, 1216-1272 (1835-36, 8vo). Other rolls such as the
LIBERATE ROLLS have not yet been published for the reigns here treated.

    [1] A fine in this technical sense is an agreement arrived at
    by a money transaction.

Of special or local rolls, preserved in the Chancery, the most important for our period are
the GASCON ROLLS. The earlier documents called by this name are not exclusively concerned with
the affairs of Gascony; they are miscellaneous documents enrolled for convenience in common
parchments by reason of the presence of the king in his Aquitanian dominions. Of these are
F. MICHEL'S Roles Gascons, vol. i., published in the French government series of Documents
Inédits sur l'Histoire de France (1885), including a "fragmentum rotuli Vasconiæ," 1242-1243,
and "patentes littere facte in Wasconia," 1253-1254, years in which Henry III. was actually
in Gascony. This publication was resumed in 1896 by M. CHARLES BÉMONT'S Supplément to Michel's
imperfect volume, containing innumerable corrections, an index, introduction, and some additional
rolls of 1254 and 1259-1260. The later of these, the roll of Edward's delegated administration,
is the first exclusively devoted to the concerns of Gascony. "Gascon Rolls" in this later sense
begin with Edward I.'s accession, and M. Bémont has undertaken their publication for the whole
of Edward's reign from photographs of the records supplied by the English to the French government.
In 1900 vol. ii. of the Roles Gascons, containing the years 1273-1290, was issued. Other classes
of Chancery Rolls accessible in print are Rotuli Scotiæ, 1291-1516 (2 vols., 1814-1819, Rec.
Corn.), and Rotuli Walliæ, 5-9 Edward I., privately printed by Sir Thomas Phillipps (1865).
Among isolated Chancery records the Rotuli Hundredorum (Rec. Corn., 2 vols. fol., 1812-1818),
containing the very important inquests made by Edward I.'s commissioners into the franchises
of the barons, may specially be noticed here.

Of not less importance than the Chancery records are those handed down from the Court of Exchequer.
The most famous of these, the PIPE ROLLS, which, unlike the Chancery Enrolments, were "filed"
or sewn skin by skin, are decreasingly important from the thirteenth century onwards as compared
with their value for the twelfth. For this reason the Pipe Roll Society, founded in 1883, only
undertook their publication up to 1200. Fragments of Pipe Rolls for our period can be seen
in print in various local histories and transactions, as e.g., "Pipe Rolls of Northumberland"
up to 1272 in HODGSON-HINDE'S History of Northumberland, pt. iii., vol. iii., and 1273-1284,
ed. Dickson (Newcastle, 1854-60), and of Notts and Derby (translated extracts) in YEATMAN's
History of Derby (1886). The only gap in our series is for Henry III. Of other Exchequer records
we may mention: (i) the ORIGINALIA ROLLS, containing the estreats or documents from the Chancery
informing the Exchequer of moneys due to it, beginning in 20 Henry III., a summary of which
is published in Rotulorum Originalium in Curia Scaccarii Abbreviatio, 20 Henry III,-51 Edward
III (2 vols. fol., Rec. Corn., 1805-1810); (2) the MEMORANDA ROLLS, containing records of charges
upon the Exchequer, etc., are complete for this period. They were kept by the king's and the
treasurer's remembrancer, and are illustrated in print by extracts from the Memoranda Rolls,
1297, in Transactions of the Royal Hist. Soc., new series, iii., 281-291(1886), and by the
roll of 3 Henry III. in COOPER'S Proceedings of the Record Commissioners (1833); (3) MINISTERS
ACCOUNTS, i.e., accounts of royal bailiffs, etc., for royal manors, etc., not included in the
sheriffs' accounts, beginning with Edward I., of which a list is given in the P.R.O. Lists
and Indexes, Nos. v. and viii.; (4) of the PELL RECORDS, recording issues and payments, samples
given in DEVON'S Issues of the Exchequer (Rec. Corn., 8vo, 1837), DEVON'S Issue Roll of Thomas
of Brantingham in 1370 (Rec. Corn., 8vo, 1835). The pells of receipt were entered on the (5)
RECEIPT ROLLS, specimens of which, along with the corresponding issues, are to be found in
SIR JAMES RAMSAY'S abstracts of issue and receipt rolls for certain years of Edward III. in
the Antiquary(1880-1888); (6) SUBSIDY ROLLS of various types, illustrated by Nonarum Inquisitiones
tempore Edwardi ZZZ. (Rec. Corn., 1807), the record of a subsidy of a ninth collected by Edward
III. in 1340-1341; (7) WARDROBE and HOUSEHOLD ACCOUNTS containing for the thirteenth and fourteenth
centuries information on national as well as private royal finance; specimens in print include
the important Liber Quotidianus Contra-rotulatoris Garderobæ, 28 Ed. I.(1299-1300), (1787,
Soc. Antiq.).

From the Exchequer records come also the following: (1) Testa de Neville sive Liber Feodorum
temp. Hen. ZZZ. et Edw. I. (Rec. Corn., fol., 1807), a miscellaneous and ill-digested but valuable
collection of thirteenth century inquisitions; (2) Nomina Villarum, g Ed. II., published in
PALGRAVE'S Parl. Writs, ii., iii., 301-416; (3) Kirkby's Quest, a survey made by Bishop Kirkby,
the treasurer, in 1284-85, of which the Yorkshire portion has been printed by the Surtees Soc.,
ea. Skaife (1867), and other portions elsewhere; (4) Taxatio Ecclesiastica Angliæ et Walliæ,
1291 (Rec. Corn., 1802), the taxation of benefices by Nicholas IV. by which assessments of
papal and ecclesiastical taxes were long made. A very useful compilation, recently undertaken
under the direction of the deputy-keeper, is Inquisitions and Assessments relating to Feudal
Aids, 1284-1431, of which three volumes, dealing in alphabetical order with the shires from
Bedford to Norfolk, are published Cheshire and Durham are entirely omitted and Lancashire very
scantily dealt with as exceptional jurisdictions. The work is based upon the various lay records
enumerated above and other analogous inquests. Ancient compilations of miscellaneous documents
by officials of the Exchequer are exemplified in Liber Niger Scaccarii (ed. Hearne, 2 vols.,
1774), and in the Red Book of the Exchequer (ed. H. Hall, 3 vols., Rolls ser., 1896).

The records of the common law courts, the King's Bench and the Court of Common Pleas, are of
less direct historical value than those of the Chancery and the Exchequer. Extraordinarily
bulky, they require a good deal of sifting to sort the wheat from the chaff. As yet a very
small proportion of them has been printed, and few have even been calendared. A brief index
of them has been compiled in the useful List of Plea Rolls (1894, P.R.O. Lists and Indexes,
No. iv.). Of the various types of these records the FEET OF FINES have been largely used by
the topographer and genealogist, and the feet of fines for many counties during this period
have been calendared, summarised, excerpted, and printed, wholly or in part, by local archaeological
societies, as for example, W. FARRER'S Lancashire Final Concords till 1307 (Rec. Soc. for Lancashire
and Cheshire, 1899), and many others. The PLEA ROLLS are of wider importance. For the days
of Henry III. Placita Coram Rege (i.e., of the King's Bench) and the Placita de Banco (i.e.,
of the Common Pleas in later phrase) are classified as Rotuli Curiæ Regis, while the rolls
of the local eyres for the same period are called Assize Rolls. Separate series for each court
begin with Edward I. Specimens of most of these types have been printed. Placitorum Abbreviatio
Ric. I.--Edw. II. (Rec. Com., fol., 1811) is a careless seventeenth century abstract. Placita
de Quo Warranto, Edward I. to Edward III. (Rec. Com., fol., 1818), is a record of local eyres
of particular importance for the reign of Edward I. as the corollary of the Hundred Rolls and
the attack on the local franchises. HUNTER'S Rotuli Selecti (Rec. Com., 1834) contains pleas
of the reign of Henry III. A typical year's pleadings of the King's Bench for 1297 is given
in full in PHILLIMORE's Placita coram rege, 25 Edward I. (1898, British Rec. Soc.). Selections
from the proceedings of the commission appointed by Edward I. in 1289 to hear complaints against
judges and officials will shortly be published by Miss Hilda Johnstone and myself for the Royal
Historical Society. Of special importance are the plea rolls issued by the Selden Society,
which include for our period F.W. MAITLAND'S Select Pleas of the Crown, 1200-1225; BAILDON'S
Select Chancery Pleas, 1364-1471; J.M. RIGG'S Select Pleas of the Jewish Exchequer; and G.J.
TURNER'S Select Pleas of the Forest; all have translations and introductions, of which those
of Professor Maitland are of exceptional value.

To these types must be added the records of the local courts, now largely also in the Public
Record Office, though vast numbers of court rolls and manorial documents are still in private
hands, and among the archives of ecclesiastical and secular corporations. The Selden Society
has done excellent work in publishing such muniments; as in particular, MAITLAND'S Select Pleas
in Manorial Courts, vol. i., Henry III. and Edward I., illustrating the social and legal life
of a medieval village; MAITLAND and BAILDON'S Court Baron; HUNTER' s Leet Jurisdiction of Norwich;
C. GROSS's Select Cases from the Coroners' Rolls, 1265-1413. The records of the Bishopric of
Durham, the County Palatine of Chester, the Principality of Wales, and the Duchy of Lancaster
are deposited in the Public Record Office, and calendars and lists scattered over the Deputy-Keeper
of the Records' Reports throw some light on their contents. Unluckily these records of franchise
are incompletely preserved and often in bad condition. The best preserved for our period are
the Durham records, described in LAPSLEY'S County Palatine of Durham, pp. 327-337 (Harvard
Historical Studies); some of the most important are printed in Registrum Palatinum Dunelmense,
ed. Hardy (Rolls Series, 4 vols.), which is also an Episcopal register. Welsh records may be
illustrated by the Record of Carnarvon (Rec. Corn., fol., 1838). Academic records are illustrated
by the Oxford Munimenta Academica (ed. Anstey), Rolls Series. Municipal records are very numerous
and important; full particulars as to them can be found in C. Gross's Bibliography of British
Municipal History (Harvard Hist. Studies). Admirably edited examples of our wealth of municipal
records for this period are to be found in Records of the Borough of Nottingham (ed. W.H. Stevenson),
vol. i. (1882); Records of the Borough of Leicester (ed. Mary Bateson), vols. i. and ii. (1899
and 1901); and Munimenta Gildhallæ Londoniensis (ed. H.T. Riley), Rolls Series. The Reports
of the Historical Manuscripts Commission afford much information as to every type of document
in private or local custody. Ireland and Scotland have archives of their own; but there are
no systematic records in the Register House at Edinburgh before the War of Independence. Among
the enterprises now abandoned of the Public Record Office were Calendars of Documents relating
to Scotland and Ireland. The Scottish series covers all this period (vols. i.-iv.), the Irish
was stopped at 1307. They are derived, by a rather arbitrary selection, from various classes
of English records, but contain much valuable material. JOSEPH STEVENSON'S Documents illustrating
the History of Scotland (1286-1306) (Scot. Rec. Publications, 1870), and PALGRAVE'S Documents
and Records illustrating the History of Scotland (Rec. Corn., 1837), are useful for the reign
of Edward I. as are for limited periods of it the Wallace Papers (Maitland Club, 1841) and
Scotland in 1298 (ed. Gough, 1888).

A new class of records begins in the thirteenth century with BISHOPS' REGISTERS. These, so
far as they survive, are preserved in the diocesan registries. Of printed registers for this
period the most important is MARTIN'S Registrum Epistolarum J. Peckham (3 vols., Rolls Series,
1882-1886), the earliest surviving Canterbury register. Other registers printed or calendared
are HINGESTON-RANDOLPH'S Exeter Registers, 1257-1291, 1307-1326, and 1327-1369 (5 vols., 1889,
etc.); excerpts, particularly from the York registers, in RAINE'S Letters from the Northern
Registers, Rolls Series; the two oldest York Registers of ARCHBISHOPS WALTER GREY (1215-1255)
and WALTER GIFFARD (1266-1279), both in Surtees Society; the Wells Registers of BPS. DROKENSFORD,
1309-1329, and RALPH OF SHREWSBURY, 1329-1363 (Somerset Record Society); the Worcester Register
of BP. GIFFARD, 1268-1302 (Worcester Historical Society); the Winchester Registers of BISHOPS
SANDALE and RIGAUD, 1316-1323, and WYKEHAM, 1366-1404 (Hampshire Record Society). A society
called the Canterbury and York Society has recently been started to set forth episcopal registers
systematically in print. It has begun to publish the earliest Lincoln Register extant, that
of Hugh of Wells, bishop of Lincoln, 1209-1235, whose Liber Antiquus de Ordinatione Vicariorum
was printed in 1888. Analogous documents are LUARD'S Rob. Grosseteste Epistola (Roll Series,
1861), and the like.

Monastic CARTULARIES are less important for general history in this than in previous periods;
large masses of monastic records of this age have survived, not a tithe of which is to be found
in DUGDALE'S Monasticon. Some monastic records illustrate the domestic economy or religious
life of the house as KIRK'S Accounts of the Obedientiaries of Abingdon, 1322-1479 (Camden Soc.);
J.W. CLARK's Observances in use at Barnwell Priory, 1295-1296(1897), and the like.

For this period by far the most important series of foreign records is the magnificent collections
of the papacy. A summary of many of these is to be found in BLISS, JOHNSON, and TWEMLOW's Calendars
of Papal Registers illustrating the History of Great Britain and Ireland; Papal Letters (vols.
i.-iv., 1198-1404), and Petitions to the Pope (vol. i., 1342-1419), of special importance for
the fourteenth century. These useful calendars, however, do not always dispense us from consulting
the grand series of papal records published or analysed under the care of the French School
of Rome, which has not yet sufficiently been studied in this country. This enterprise is divided
into two sections. In the first the Registers from Gregory IX. to Benedict XI. are in course
of publication; in the second the letters of the Avignon popes relating to France are printed
or analysed. Portions of the letters of John XXII, Benedict XII, and Clement VI, are already
issued. PRESSUTI has published one volume of the Registers of Honorius III (1888). From the
Vatican archives also comes THEINER'S Vetera Monumenta Hib. et Scot. Historiam illustrantia
(1864), beginning in 1216.

Extracts from various archives are found in such collections as RYMER's Foedera of which the
Record Commission's edition in folio reaches just beyond the end of this period; WILKINS'S
Concilia (1737), containing many extracts from episcopal registers and canons of councils;
HADDAN and STUBBS'S Councils, vol. i. (for the thirteenth century Welsh Church); CHAMPOLLION-FIGEAC'S
Lettres des Rois et des Reines d'Angleterre (2 vols., 1847, Doc. Inédits); STUBBS'S Select
Charters (Henry III. and Edward I.), and BÉMONT'S excellent Chartes des Libertés anglaises
in the Collection de Textes pour l'Étude et l'Enseignement de l'Histoire. Equally useful is
COSNEAU'S Grands Traités de la Guerre de Cent Ans also in the same Collection de Textes. The
Statutes of the Realm (vol. i., fol., 1810) contains the text of the laws and of the great
charters of this period.

Chronicles, with all their deficiencies, must ever be largely used as sources of continuous
historical narrative. For the thirteenth century our chief reliance must still be placed upon
the annals drawn up in various monasteries, some based upon little more than gossip or hearsay,
others showing real efforts to acquire authentic information. The greatest centre of historical
composition in thirteenth-century England was the Abbey of St. Alban's, whose chronicles form
so important a series that they may appropriately be considered as a whole, before the other
chroniclers are dealt with in approximately chronological order. The fame of St. Alban's as
a school of history had its origin in the order of Abbot Simon (d. 1183) that the house should
always appoint a special historiographer. The first of these whose work is now extant is ROGER
OF WENDOVER (d. 1236), whose Flores Historiarum (ed. H.O. Coxe, Engl. Hist. Soc., 1842, or
ed. Hewlett, Rolls Series, 1886-89--this latter edition is unscholarly) becomes original in
1216 and remains a chief source, copious and interesting, if not always precise, until 1235.
On Wendover's death, MATTHEW PARIS, who took the monastic habit in 1217, became the official
St. Alban's chronicler. His great work, the Chronica Majora, is, up to 1235, little more than
an expansion and embellishment of Wendover. He re-edited Wendover's work with a patriotic and
anti-curialist bias quite alien to the spirit of the earlier writer, whose version should preferably
be followed. Paris's book is a first-hand source from 1235 to 1259. The narrative of the years
1254-1259 is considerably later in composition to the history of the period 1235-1253, since
on reaching 1253 Paris devoted himself to an abridgment of what he had already written, called
the Historia Minor. On completing this he resumed his earlier book, and carried it on to the
eve of his death in 1259, though he did not live to complete its final revision; that was the
work of another monk who added a picture of his death-bed. The Chronica Majora has been excellently
edited by Dr. H.R. Luard in seven volumes for the Rolls Series, with elaborate introductions
tracing the literary history of the work and a magnificent index. The Historia Minor has been
published in three volumes by Sir F. Madden in the Rolls Series. Paris also wrote the lives
of the abbots of his house up to 1255, a work not now extant, and the basis of the later Gesta
Abbatum S. Albani, compiled by Thomas Walsingham (d. 1422?) and likewise issued in the Rolls
Series. The thirteenth century biographies have some original value. Paris's Life of Stephen
Langton is printed in LIEBERMANN'S Ungedruckte Anglo-Normannische Geschichtsquellen (1870).

Paris, perhaps the greatest historian of the Middle Ages, has literary skill, a vivid though
prolix style, a keen eye for the picturesque, bold and independent judgment, wonderful breadth
and range, and an insatiable curiosity. He was a man of the world, a courtier and a scholar;
he took immense pains to collect his facts from documents and eye-witnesses, and had great
advantages in this respect through the intimate relations between his house and the court.
Henry III himself contributed many items of information to him. His details are extraordinarily
full, and he tells us almost as much about continental affairs as about those of his own country.
He wrote with too flowing a pen to be careful about precision, and had too much love of the
picturesque to resist the temptation of embellishing a good story. His narrative of continental
transactions is in particular extremely inexact. But the chief cause of his offending also
gives special value to his work; he was a man of strong views and his sympathies and prejudices
colour every line he wrote. His standpoint is that of a patriotic Englishman, indignant at
the alien invasions, at the misgovernment of the king, the greed of the curialists and the
Poitevins, and with a professional bias against the mendicants. His writings make his age live.

The falling off in the St. Alban's work of the next generation is characteristic of the decay
of colour and detail which makes the chroniclers of the age of Edward I. inferior to those
of his father's reign. The years after 1259 were briefly chronicled by uninspired continuators
of Matthew Paris, and the reputation of St. Alban's as a school of history led to the frequent
transference of their annals to other religious houses, where they were written up by local
pens. This led to the dissemination of the series of jejune compilations which in the ages
of Edward I. and II. were widely spread under the name of Flores Historiarum. Dr. Luard has
published a critical edition of these Flores in three volumes of the Rolls Series, which range
from the creation to 1326, with an introduction determining their complicated relations to
each other. They are of no real value before 1259, and for the next sixty-seven years are only
important by reason of the defects of our other sources. No unity or colour can be expected
in books handed from house to house and kept up to date by jottings by different hands. The
ascription of these Flores to a conjectural Matthew of Westminster by earlier editors is groundless.
Dr. C. Horstmann, Nova Legenda Anglie, i., pp. xlix. seq.(1901), maintains that John of Tynemouth's
Historia Aurea, still in manuscript, is the official St. Alban's history from 1327 to 1377.

In the reign of Edward I. the credit of the school of St. Alban's was revived to some extent
by WILLIAM RISHANGER, who made his profession in 1271 and died early in the reign of Edward
II. To him is assigned a chronicle ranging from 1259 to 1306 published by H.T. Riley in the
volume Willelmi Rishanger et Anonymorum Chronica et Annales (Rolls Series). Rishanger's authorship
of the portion 1259-1272 is more probable than that of the section 1272-1306, which, not compiled
before 1327, is almost certainly by another hand, and the attribution of even the earlier section
to Rishanger is doubted by so competent an authority as M. Bémont. The compilation is frigid
and unequal. Of the miscellaneous contents of Mr. Riley's volume, the short Gesta Edwardi I.
(pp. 411-423), of no great value, is clearly Rishanger's work. We may also ascribe to Rishanger
the Narratio de Bellis apud Lewes et Evesham (ed. Halliwell, Camden Soc., 1840), which tells
the story of the Barons' Wars with vigour, detail, and insight. Written by a true inheritor
of the prejudices of Matthew Paris, this chronicle is a eulogy of Montfort. It was put together
not before 1312.

Another volume of Chroniclers of St. Alban's was edited by Mr. Riley for the Rolls Series in
1860. Three of its chronicles concern our period. These are: (1) Opus Chronicorum, 1259-1296,
a source of "Rishanger's" chronicle; (2) J. DE TROKELOWE'S Annales, 1307-1322; (3) H. DE BLANEFORDE'S
Chronica (1323). These last two are important for Edward II.'s reign. After these works, historical
writing further declined at St. Alban's. At the end of our period, however, another true disciple
of Matthew Paris was found in the St. Alban's monk who added to a jejune compilation for the
years 1328 to 1370 a vivid and personal narrative of the years 1376-1388, our chief source
for the history of the last year of Edward III.'s reign. In his bitter prejudice against John
of Gaunt and his clerical allies, such as Wychffe and the mendicants, the monk is so outspoken
that his book was suppressed, and most manuscripts leave out the more offensive passages. It
has been edited by Sir E. Maunde Thompson as Chronicon Angliæ, 1328-1388 (Rolls Series). Before
that its contents, like that of other St. Alban's annals, were partially known through the
fifteenth century compilation under the name of a St. Alban's monk, THOMAS OF WALSINGHAM, whose
Historia Anglicana (2 vols., Rolls Series, ed. Riley) is not an authority for our period.

For the early years of Henry III. we have besides Wendover's Flores: (i) The CANON OF BARNWELL'S
continuation of Howden published in STUBBS'S Memoriale Fratris Walteri de Coventria (Rolls
Series), written in 1227 and copious for the years 1216-1225. (2) RALPH OF COGGESHALL's Chronicon
Anglicanum (ed. Stevenson, Rolls Series), ending at 1227 and important for its last twelve
years. (4) The Chronique de l'Anonyme de Béthune printed in 1904 in vol. xxiv. of the Recueil
des Historiens de la France. (5) A French rhyming chronicle, the Histoire de Guillaume le Maréchal,
discovered and edited by P. Meyer for the Soc. de l'histoire de France. Written by a minstrel
of the younger Marshal from materials supplied by the regent's favourite squire, it is, though
poetry and panegyric, an important source for Marshal's regency.

St. Alban's was not the only religious house that concerned itself with the production of chronicles.
Other Annales Monastici have been edited in five volumes (Rolls Series, vol. v. is the index)
by Dr. Luard. They are of special importance for the reign of Henry III. In vol. i. the meagre
annals of the Glamorganshire abbey of Margam only extend to 1232. The Annals of Tewkesbury
are useful from 1200 to 1263, and specially for the history of the Clares, the patrons of that
house. The Annals of Burton-upon-Trent illustrate the years 1211 to 1261 with somewhat intermittent
light, and are of unique value for the period of the Provisions of Oxford, containing many
official documents. Vol. ii. includes the Annals of Winchester and Waverley. The former, extending
to 1277, though mainly concerned with local affairs are useful for certain parts of the reign
of Henry III., and particularly for the years 1267-1277. The annals of the Cistercian house
of Waverley, near Farnham, go down to 1291. From 1259 to 1266 the narrative is contemporary
and valuable; from 1266 to 1275, and partly from 1275 to 1277 it is borrowed from the Winchester
Annals; from 1277 to its abrupt end it is again of importance. The Annals of Bermondsey in
vol. iii. are a fifteenth century compilation. The Annals of the Austin canons of Dunstable
are of great value, especially from the year 1201, when they become original, down to 1242.
This section is written by RICHARD DE MORINS, prior of Dunstable from 1202 to 1242. After his
death the annals become more local, though they give a clear narrative of the puzzling period
1258-1267. They stop in 1297. The chief contents of vol. iv, are the parallel Annals of Oseney
and the Chronicle of THOMAS WYKES, a canon of that house, who took the religious habit in 1282.
To 1258 the two histories are very similar, that of Wykes being slightly fuller. They then
remain distinct until 1278, and again from 1280 to 1284 and 1285-1289. In the latter year Wykes
stops, while Oseney goes on with independent value until 1293, and as a useless compilation
till 1346. Wykes is of unique interest for the Barons' Wars, as he is the only competent chronicler
who takes the royalist side. The Oseney writer, much less full and interesting, represents
the ordinary baronial standpoint. Wykes is occasionally useful for the first years of Edward
I.; after 1288 his importance becomes small. The Annals of Worcester are largely a compilation
from the Winchester Annals and the Flores; the local insertions have some value for the period
1216-1258, and more for the latter part of the reign of Edward I., at whose death they end.

Other monastic chronicles of the thirteenth century, of small importance, enumerated by Dr.
Luard (Ann. Mon., iv., liii.) are not yet printed in full. Extracts from many are given in
PERTZ'S Monumenta Germaniæ Hist. Scriptores, vols. xxvii. and xxviii. The Annales Cestrienses
(to 1297) have been edited by R.C. Christie (Record Soc. of Lancashire and Cheshire); EDMUND
OF HADENHAM'S Chronicle (down to 1307) is given in part in WHARTON'S Anglia Sacra, and M. Bémont
publishes in an appendix to his Simon de Montfort (pp. 373-380) a valuable fragment of a Chronicle
of Battle Abbey on the Barons' Wars, 1258-1265. For the latter part of that period we have
some useful notices in HENRY OF SILEGRAVE's brief Chronicle (ed. Hook, Caxton Soc., 1849),
whose close relationship to the Battle Chronicle M. Bémont has first indicated. To these may
be added the Annals of Stanley Abbey (1202-1271) in vol. ii. of Chronicles of Stephen, Henry
II. and Richard I. (ed. Hewlett, Rolls Series, 1885), and the Chronicle of the Bury monk, JOHN
OF TAXSTER or TAYSTER, which becomes copious from the middle of the thirteenth century and
ends in 1265; it was partly printed in 1849 by Benjamin Thorpe as a continuation of Florence
of Worcester (English Historical Society), and the years 1258-1262 are best read in Luard's
edition of Bartholomew Cotton (Rolls Series). Taxster's work became the basis of several later
compilations of the eastern counties, including: (i) JOHN OF EVERSDEN, another Bury monk, independent
from 1265 to 1301, also printed without his name by Thorpe, up to 1295, as a further continuation
of Florence. (2) JOHN OF OXNEAD, a monk of St. Benet's, Hulme, a reputed continuator of Taxster
and Eversden up to 1280, who adds a good deal of his own for the years 1280-1293, edited somewhat
carelessly by Sir Henry Ellis as Chronica J. de Oxenedes (Rolls Series). (3) BARTHOLOMEW COTTON,
a monk of Norwich, whose Historia Anglicana, original from 1291 to 1298, and specially important
from 1285 to 1291, is edited by Luard (Rolls Series). Some thirteenth and early fourteenth
century Bury chronicles are also in Memorials of St. Edmund's Abbey, ed. T. Arnold (vols. ii.
and iii., Rolls Series). The Chronicon de Mailros (Bannatyne Club), from the Cistercian abbey
of Melrose, goes to 1270; though utterly untrustworthy, it may be noticed as almost the only
Scottish chronicle before the war of independence, and as containing a curious record of the
miracles of Simon de Montfort.

Among the historians of Edward I.'s reign is WALTER OF HEMINGBURGH, Canon of Guisborough in
Cleveland (ed. H.C. Hamilton, 2 vols., Engl. Hist. Soc.). His account of Henry III.'s reign
is worthless, but from 1272 to 1312 his work is of great value, though never precise and full
of gaps. It contains many documents and is remarkable for its stirring battle pictures. Hemingburgh
probably laid down his pen when the narrative ceases early in the reign of Edward II. Another
writer, identified by Horstmann with John of Tynemouth, carries the story from 1326 to 1346.

In striking contrast to the flowing periods of Hemingburgh is the well-written and chronologically
digested Annals of the Dominican friar NICHOLAS TREVET or TRIVET, the son of a judge of Henry
III.'s reign (ed. Hog, Engl. Hist. Soc.). Beginning in 1138, his work assumes independent value
for the latter years of Henry III. and is of first-rate importance for the reign of Edward
I., at whose death it concludes, though Trevet was certainly alive in 1324. It was largely
used by the later St. Alban's chroniclers.

Franciscan historiography begins earlier than Dominican with the remarkable tract of THOMAS
OF ECCLESTON, written about 1260, De Adventu Fratrum Minorum in Anglia, published with other
Minorite documents (including Adam Marsh's letters) in BREWER'S Monumenta Franciscana (Rolls
Series, continued in a second volume by R. Hewlett). The first important Franciscan chronicle,
called the Chronicon de Lanercost (ed. J. Stevenson, Bannatyne Club, 2 vols.), really comes
from the Minorite convent of Carlisle. It covers the years 1201 to 1346. The early part is
derived from the valueless chronicle of Melrose, and its incoherent cult of the memory of Montfort
does not save it from the grossest errors in dealing with his history. It becomes important
for northern affairs from Edward I. onwards, giving full details with a strong anti-Scottish
bias. Another north-country chronicle is Sir T. GREY'S Scalacronica (ed. Stevenson, Maitland
Club, 1836), useful for the Scottish wars and for Edward III.'s reign up to 1362.

A sign of the times is the beginning of civic chronicles. The London series alone is important
for English history. It begins with the Liber de Antiquis Legibus, or Chronica Majorum et Vicecomitum
Londoniarum (1188-1274, ed. T. Stapleton, Camden Soc.). The work of ARNOLD FITZTHEDMAR, alderman
of the German merchants in London, it is copious for the years 1236 to 1274, and is, with Wykes,
the only chronicle of the Barons' Wars written with a royalist bias. Fourteenth century civic
chronicles, based upon Flores Historiarum, and continued independently, form the main contents
of the two volumes of Chronicles of the Reigns of Edward I. and II. (ed. by Dr. Stubbs for
the Rolls Series). These are: (1) Annales Londonienses, perhaps written by ANDREW HORN, chamberlain
of London, and compiler of the Liber Horn; they have much general value for the period 1301
to 1316, and deal more narrowly with London history from 1316 to 1330, when they conclude.
(2) Annales Paulini, 1307-1341, compiled by one of the clergy of St. Paul's, but not by Adam
Murimuth. These take up Dr. Stubbs's first volume. The second contains: (1) JOHN OF LONDON'S
Commendatio Lamentabilis in Transitu magni Regis Edwardi quarti, a funeral eulogy containing
the most elaborate contemporary analysis of Edward's character. (2) The CANON OF BRIDLINGTON'S
Gesta Edwardi de Carnarvon, with a continuation down to the death of Edward III., of little
value after 1339. It has frequent reference to the vaticinations of the local prophet, John
of Bridlington, and was not put in its present shape before 1377. Its first part is based on
earlier sources, and it is, for lack of better, a prime authority for north-country history
and Anglo-Scottish relations; the continuation contains the best account of Edward Balliol's
attempts on the Scottish throne. (3) Vita Edwardi II., from 1307 to 1325, attributed by Hearne
on slight grounds to a MONK OF MALMESBURY, with many notices of the history of Gloucestershire
and Bristol, of which the famous rising is described at length. The writer is the most human
of the annalists of the reign, prolix, self-conscious, moralising, and somewhat incoherent.
He is the most outspoken of all the fourteenth century critics of the Roman curia, and has
more insight than most of his contemporaries.

The following are of primary importance for the early years of Edward III.; it is significant
that they are nearly all secular, not monastic, in origin. (1) Continuatio Chronicorum, 1303-1347,
by ADAM MURIMUTH, a canon of St. Paul's much employed by Edward III. (ed. E.M. Thompson in
Rolls Series), a mere continuation of the Flores until 1325, thence enlarged from personal
sources, but still meagre until 1337, when it becomes a first-rate authority to 1346. Murimuth's
adoption of Michaelmas day as the beginning of the year has often confused those who have imitated
him. Chief among these is (2) GEOFFREY LE BAKER of Swinbrooke, an Oxfordshire man, and like
Murimuth, a secular clerk, whose Chronicon (ed. E.M. Thompson), beginning in 1303 on the basis
of Murimuth, has independent value after 1324, and is noteworthy for its touching details of
Edward II.'s fall and death. It ends in 1356 with an excellent account of the battle of Poitiers.
The early part of Baker's chronicle, widely circulated as Vita et Mors Edwardi II., was previously
assigned to Sir Thomas de la Moor, and was so edited by Stubbs, but Sir E.M. Thompson showed
clearly that this Oxfordshire knight was Baker's patron and not the writer of a chronicle.
With many defects, Baker can tell a story picturesquely. (3) ROBERT OF AVESBURY, a canon lawyer,
wrote De mirabilibus Gestis Edwardi III., of special importance for the war from 1339 to 1356,
and containing many state documents. It is edited by E.M. Thompson in the same volume as Murimuth.
(4) HENRY KNIGHTON, Canon of Leicester, wrote a Chronicle about 1366 which is valuable for
the period 1336-1366 and includes the best contemporary account of the Black Death. The latest
edition by Lumby in the Rolls Series is not a scholarly work. (5) Eulogium Historiarum (ed.
Haydon, Rolls Series) is contemporary and valuable for 1356-1366 only. There is a great dearth
of English chronicles for the latter years of Edward III. The signal exception is the important
St. Alban's Chronicon Angliæ already mentioned.

In the age of Edward III. the Flores Historiarum were superseded by the Polychronicon (often
called the "Brute" after WACE'S Brut d'Angleterre), the voluminous compilation (to 1352) of
RANDOLPH HIGDEN, a monk of Chester (edited by Babington and Lumby, Rolls Series). ROBERT OF
GLOUCESTER, PETER LANGTOFT, and ROBERT MANNYNG have been referred to elsewhere. The first is
of some original value for the Barons' Wars and Edward I., while Langtoft, a Yorkshire canon
specially interested in the Scottish wars, is a contemporary for all Edward I.'s reign. Among
rhyming chronicles, French in tongue but English in origin, may be mentioned Le Siège de Carlaverock,
1300 (ed. Nicolas, 1828), of value for heraldry, and CHANDOS HERALD'S Prince Noir (ed. H.O.
Coxe, whose edition was pillaged by F. Michel for his more accessible version of 1883). L'Histoire
de Foulques Fitz Warin (d. 1260?), a picturesque marcher hero, a prose romance of the end of
the thirteenth century, can be read in Stevenson's edition of COGGESHALL (Rolls Series), or
Englished by A. Kemp-Welch (1904).

No contemporary Scottish chronicles of importance deal with the War of Independence, though
fairly full Scottish versions of it exist in later books. The earliest of these is the Bruce
of JOHN BARBOUR, Archdeacon of Aberdeen. Written in 1375 at the instigation of Robert II.,
Barbour's spirited verses are inspired by patriotic rather than historic motives. His details
are minute, but impossible to control by other sources, and he is more valuable as the epic
poet of Scottish liberty than as an historical authority. He is edited by Skeat (Early English
Text Soc.), Jamieson, and Innes. The earliest prose Scottish chronicle, that of JOHN FORDUN,
who died about 1384 (ed. Skene, in Historians of Scotland), is of value for the fourteenth
century. ANDREW WYNTONN'S Originale, a metrical history written in the fifteenth century, has
next to no authority until the end of this period (ed. Laing, in Historians of Scotland), BLIND
HARRY'S Wallace, written in 1488, is romance not history.

Wales is more fortunate than Scotland in preserving contemporary thirteenth century annals,
of which a Latin chronicle, Annales Cambriæ, extending to 1288, and a Welsh one, Brut y Tywysogion
(i.e., Chronicle of the Princes), down to 1278, are edited by J. Williams in the Rolls Series,
the latter with an English translation. A more critical version of the Welsh text of the Brut
is that of J. RHYS and J.G. EVANS' Red Book of Hergest, vol. ii. (1890).

The close relations between England and France for the whole of this period render the French
chronicles by far the most important of foreign sources for English history. They are enumerated
in detail by Auguste Molinier in vols. iii. (up to 1328) and iv. (after 1328) of the first
part of Les Sources de l'Histoire de France (Manuels de Bibliographie historique). The chief
French chronicles of the period 1226-1328 are collected in vols. xx.-xxiv. of the Recueil des
Historiens de la France begun by Dom Bouquet. Some of them are of special importance for English
history. For Anglo-Netherlandish relations under Edward I. see Annales Gandenses (1296-1310),
"la chronique la plus remarquable de la fin du xiiie siècle," the French Chronique Artésienne
(1295-1304), and the Chronique Tournaisienne (1296-1314), all edited by F. Funck-Brentano in
the already mentioned Collection de Textes. For the Hundred Years' War the French chroniclers
are indispensable, especially for military history. The most famous of these writers, JEAN
FROISSART, has been characterised in my text (p. 419). He can best be studied in Luce and Raynouart's
excellent edition for the Soc. de l'Histoire de France (tomes i.-viii., 1869-1888) which completes
the story up to Edward III.'s death. Luce's careful "sommaire et commentaire critique" often
affords means of checking Froissart by other sources. The magnificent volumes of indexes of
Kervyn de Lettenhove's complete edition (vols. XX.-XXV.) are still of immense use, though his
text and comments are inferior to those of Luce, Froissart's spirit may well be caught in Lord
Berners's racy English translation (Tudor Translations), or in G.C. Macaulay's useful abridgment.
The three redactions of Froissart's first book (from 1327 to 1373-1377), which is all that
concerns our period, have been clearly distinguished by Luce. (1) The first edition, written
about 1373, at the request of Count Robert of Namur, is inspired by an English bias. Up to
1360 it is largely derived from the chronicle of JEAN LE BEL, Canon of St. Lambert of Liège;
after that date it is original. (2) The second edition, only represented by two MSS., of which
one is incomplete, is a modification of the first with a French bias. The earlier part is more
independent of Jean le Bel. (3) The third edition, preserved in a single MS., ends with the
death of Philip VI in 1350, and, written after 1400, is even more hostile to England than the
second. The best edition of Jean le Bel is by Polain for the Académie royale de Belgique.

A few of the more important French chronicles after 1328 may be mentioned shortly. (1) Grands
Chroniques de France (ed. Paulin Paris). Original from 1350 to 1377, a work of first-rate importance,
where, if truth is altered, it is altered deliberately from political motives. (2) JEAN DE
VENETTE, 1340-1368, written with a popular bias, and partly favourable to Charles of Navarre
(edited as a supplement to Géraud's edition of Guillaume de Nangis, ii., 178-378, Soc. de l'Hist.
de France). (3) Chronique Normande du xiv'e siècle, 1337-1372 (ed. Molinier, Soc. de l'Hist.
de France, 1882), exact and very important for the wars 1337 to 1372. (4) Chronique des quatre
premiers Valois (Soc. de l'Hist. de France). (5) CUVELIER'S poetical Vie de Bertrand du Guesclin
(2 vols., Doc. inédits). Further details can be found in Molinier's bibliography. Netherlandish
sources for the Hundred Years' War are summarised in PIRENNE'S Bibliographie de l'Histoire
de Belgique (1895). Of special importance is JAN VAN KLERK'S Van den Derden Edewaert Rym Kronyk.
(1840), useful for 1337-1341, and written with an English bias.

The unofficial legal literature of the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries is of exceptional
variety and value. Many lawyers' treatises throw light on matters far beyond legal technicalities.
HENRY OF BRACTON or BRATTON'S De Legibus et Consuetudinibus Angliæ illustrates the union of
English and Roman juridical ideas characteristic of the age of Henry III. It has been edited
badly by Sir T. Twiss in six volumes (Rolls Series), and some portions well by Professor Maitland
in his Select passages from Bracton and Azo (Selden Soc.). Maitland's Bracton's Note Book includes
extracts from plea rolls seemingly made by Bracton. Bracton's book on the laws was translated,
condensed, and rearranged by a writer of the next generation called Britton. It may be studied
in a modern edition in NICHOLLS'S Britton on the laws of England, while Fleta, an almost contemporary
Latin law book, must be read in Selden's seventeenth century edition. Another thirteenth century
law-book, Le Mirroir des Justices, has been edited by Maitland and W.J. Whittaker for the Selden
Society. From Edward I.'s time onwards unofficial reports of trials called YEAR BOOKS, written
in French, become valuable for their vividness and detail, and for the light which they throw
on the more technical records of the plea rolls. Many of them are printed in unsatisfactory
seventeenth century editions, but the Year Books of five of Edward I.'s regnal years, between
1292 to 1307, together with the Year Book of 11-12 Edward III., are accessible in A.J. Horwood's
editions in the Rolls Series. L.O. Pike has also edited in the Rolls Series the Year books
of Edward III. from 1338 to 1345, and Maitland's Year books of Edward II. for the Selden Society
are the first two instalments of a scheme for publishing the Year Books of the reign. Besides
their legal value, the Year Books are an almost unworked mine for social and economic, and
often even political and ecclesiastical, history.

Of literary aids to history T. WRIGHT'S Political Songs (Camden Soc.) illustrate this period
to the reign of Edward II. One of Wright's pieces has been more elaborately edited in C.L.
KINGSFORD'S Song of Lewes (1890), and C. Hardwick published a Poem on the Times OF Edward II.
for the Percy Soc. (1849). With Edward III. such literature becomes copious. Of special importance
are T. Wright's Political POEMS and SONGS FROM the accession of Edward III., vol. i. (Rolls
Series, 1859), J. Hall's Poems of LAURENCE MINOT, Skeat's editions of CHAUCER and LANGLAND,
and G.C. Macaulay's edition of GOWER. The Latin works of Wycliffe, published by the Wycliffe
Society, mainly belong to the succeeding period, but De Dominio Divino and De Civili Dominio,
as well as some tracts printed in the appendix to LEWIS'S Life of Wiclif and in Shirley's edition
of Fasciculi Zizanioram (Rolls Series), were written before 1377.

Of modern works treating of this period, many monographs, dealing with particular points, have
been mentioned in notes in the course of the narrative. Of general guides to the period the
best by far are Stubbs and Pauli. STUBBS'S Constitutional History (vol. ii.) is as valuable
for the chapters summarising the political history as for the more strictly constitutional
matter. R. PAULI'S Geschichte von England, iii., 489-896, and iv., 1-505, 716-741, remains,
after half a century, the fullest and most satisfactory working up in detail of these reigns,
though the great additions to our material make parts of it a somewhat unsafe guide. It can
be supplemented for particular aspects of history by the following: For legal history, POLLOCK
and MAITLAND'S History of English Law before the time of Edward I., especially vol. i., book
i. (chapters iv.-vi.), and book ii.; and most of vol. ii.; to which should be added the prefaces
by Prof. Maitland and others to the volumes of the Selden Society. MAITLAND'S Roman Canon Law
in the Church of England (1898) is also of great importance. For ecclesiastical history, W.R.W.
STEPHENS'S History of the English Church, 1066-1272; W.W. CAPES'S History of the English Church
in the Fourteenth and Fifteenth Centuries, and F. MAKOWER'S The Constitutional History and
Constitution of the Church of England (translated from the German). For academic history, DENIFLE'S
Entstehung der Universitäten des Mittelalters bis 1400, especially pp. 1-40, 237-251 (Oxford)
and pp. 367-376 (Cambridge), HAURÉAU'S Histoire de la Philosophie scholastique and RASHDALL'S
Universities of the Middle Ages, i., 1-74, and ii., part ii. (Oxford and Cambridge). For military
history, KÖHLER'S Entwickelung des Kriegswesens in der Ritterzeit, OMAN'S History of the Art
of War in the Middle Ages, CLARK'S Mediæval Military Architecture, and (above all) J.E. MORRIS'S
Welsh Wars of Edward I. For naval history, NICOLAS'S History of the Royal Navy, and C. DE LA
RONCIÈRE'S Histoire de la Marine Française. For particular reigns the following may be found
useful: For Henry III., PETIT-DUTAILLIS'S Étude sur Louis VIII., GASQUET'S Henry III. and the
Church (1905), BÉMONT'S Simon de Montfort, PROTHERO'S Simon de Montfort, and BLAAUW'S Barons'
Wars (2nd ed., 1871). For the reign of Edward I., SEELEY's Life and Reign of Edward I. (1872),
my Edward I.; GOUGH'S Itinerary of Edward I., MAXWELL'S Robert the Bruce (Heroes of the Nations),
and MORRIS'S above-mentioned Welsh Wars of Edward I. For some aspects of Edward II.'s reign,
STUBBS'S prefaces to Chronicles of Edward I. and Edward II. are of special value. For Edward
III.'s reign, BARNES's History of Edward III. (1688) is not quite superseded by LONGMAN'S Life
and Times of Edward III. (2 vols., 1869), and MACKINNON'S History of Edward III. (1900). The
end of Edward III.'s reign is illustrated by S. ARMITAGE SMITH'S John of Gaunt (1904), J. LECHLER'S
Wiclif und die Vorgeschichte der Reformation (2 vols., 1873), also translated, not very adequately,
Wycliffe and His English Precursors (1878 and 1881), F.D. MATTHEW'S introduction to Wyclif's
English Works (Early English Text Society), and R.L. POOLE'S Illustrations of the History of
Mediæval Thought (1884), and Wycliffe (1889). G.M. TREVELYAN's England in the Age of Wycliffe
(1899) is interesting but not always very scholarly.

Some account of the general foreign history of the period can be found in LAVISSE and RAMBAUD'S
Histoire générale (tomes ii. and iii.), LOSERTH'S Geschichte des späteren Mittelalters (good
bibliographies), and, briefly, in my Papacy and Empire (up to 1273), and LODGE'S Close of the
Middle Ages (after 1273). For French history of the period LAVISSE'S Histoire de France (iii.,
pt. i., 1137-1226, by A. LUCHAIRE; iii., pt. ii., 1226-1328, by C.V. LANGLOIS, and iv., pt.
i., 1328-1422, by A. COVILLE) cover the whole of the period. More detailed works are, PETIT-DUTAILLIS'S
Louis VIII., E. BERGER'S Blanche de Castile, WALLON'S Louis IX., BOUTARIC'S Saint Louis et
Alfonse de Poitiers, C.V. LANGLOIS'S Philippe le Hardi, BOUTARIC'S France sous Philippe le
Bel, LEHUGEUR'S Philippe le Long, PETIT'S Charles de Valois, FOURNIER'S Royaume d'Arles et
de Vienne, L. DELISLE'S Hist. de Saint-Sauveur-le-Vicomte, and (for the south) the new edition
of DE VIC and VAISSÈTE's Hist. générale de Languedoc. Much recent work has been done by French
scholars towards the reconstruction of the external history of England during the whole of
our period. For the Low Countries, PIRENNE'S Hist. de Belgique, ii., ASHLEY'S James and Philip
van Artevelde, and VANDER KINDERE'S Le Siècle des Arteveldt. PAULI is good for the relations
of England and Germany.

Maps illustrating the period are to be found in POOLE'S Oxford Historical Atlas, LONGNON'S
Atlas historique de la France, and SPRUNER-MENKE'S Historischer Hand-Atlas; special maps of
Edward I.'s Scottish expeditions in GOUGH'S Itinerary of Edward I., of Edward III.'s and the
Black Prince's campaigns in THOMPSON'S Chronicon Galfridi le Baker, and KERVYN'S Froissart,
of John of Gaunt's in ARMITAGE-SMITH's John of Gaunt, and of Wales in the thirteenth century
in Owens College Historical Essays.

Further details as to English authorities, ancient and modern, can be found in GROSS'S excellent
Sources and Literature of English History (1900). The Monumenta Germaniæ Historica, Scriptores,
vols. xxvii., xxviii., consist of excerpts from English writers of the twelfth and thirteenth
centuries; the introductions (in Latin) by Pauli and Liebermann contain noteworthy estimates
of the works from which the extracts are taken.

NOTE TO PAGES 390-92.

My reasons for my account of the battle of Poitiers demand longer explanation than can be given
in a footnote. Like most modern writers, I have based my narrative on the Chronicle of Geoffrey
le Baker as expounded by Sir E.M. Thompson, though I agree with Professor Oman in holding that
Baker's "ampla profundaque vallis et mariscus, torrente quodam irriguus," must be the valley
of the Miausson. I also, however, agree with Father Denifle in not setting great store on Chandos
Herald, though I would not reject him altogether, as all prudent writers must reject Froissart.
My conjectural account of the movements of the armies is an attempt to combine Baker with what
may be true in the Herald. I hope elsewhere to be able to justify my narrative at length.

INDEX.

Aachen.
Abbeville.
Aberconway Abbey.
Aberdeen.
Aberdeen, John Barbout, Archdeacon of. See Barbour, John.
Abergavenny, town, castle and lordship.
Abergavenny, Lords of. See Hastings.
Aberystwyth.
Abingdon.
Abingdon, Edmund of. See Rich, Edmund.
Acre.
Acre, Joan of. See Joan.
Acton Burnell.
Adolf of Nassau, King of the Romans.
Adour, the river.
Agen.
Agenais, the.
Agnelius of Pisa.
Aigueblanche, Peter of, Bishop of Hereford.
Aiguillon.
Albemarle, William of Fors, Earl of.
Albemarle and Devon, Isabella of Fors, Countess of.
Albigenses, the.
Albert the Great.
Albret, Lord of.
Aldgate.
Alencon, Count of.
Alexander II., King-of Scots.
Alexander III., King of Scots.
Alexander, son of Alexander III of Scotland.
Alexander IV., Pope.
Alexander of Hales. See Hales.
Alfonso X., King of Castile.
Alfonse of France, Count of Poitiers.
Alice, Countess of Lancaster.
Alice of Lusignan.
Aliens.
Almaine, Henry of. See Henry of Almaine.
"Almaines, The."
Almond, the river.
Alnwick Castle.
Alton Castle.
Amadeus III., Count of Savoy.
Amesbury.
Amice, mother of the elder Simon de Montfort.
Amiens,
  cathedral;
  mise of;
  treaty of.
Amory, Roger of.
Anagni.
Andrew, St.
Anne of Brittany.
Angers.
Anglesey.
Anglia, East.
Angoulême.
Angoulême, Isabella, Countess of. See Isabella, Queen of England.
Angoumois.
Anjou.
Anjou, Charles of. See Charles.
Anjou, Louis, Duke of. See Louis.
Annandale.
Antrim.
Antwerp.
Apulia.
Aquinas, St. Thomas.
Aquitaine, See also Gascony.
Aquitaine, Dukes of. See under the Kings of England.
Aquitaine, Edward, Prince of. See Edward the Black Prince.
Aquitaine, Eleanor of.
Aragon.
Aragon, James, King of. See James.
Aragon, Peter, King of. See Peter.
Archers,
  English;
  Welsh;
  Scottish.
Architecture,
  gothic;
  ecclesiastical;
  domestic;
  military;
  "decorated" style, "flamboyant";
  "perpendicular";
  Norman;
  French.
Arden, forest of.
Argenton.
Aristotle.
Armagh, Archbishop of. See Fitzralph, Richard.
Armagnac, Counts of.
Armagnac, John, Count of.
Arnold, T., his edition of Memorials of St. Edmund's Abbey.
Art. See also Architecture.
Artevelde, James van.
Arthur I., Count of Brittany.
Arthur II., Duke of Brittany.
Arthur, King.
Arthurian Legend, the Articuli super cartas.
Artois.
Artois, Blanche of. See Blanche.
Artois, Maud, Countess of. See Maud.
Artois, Robert of. See Robert.
Arundel, the Countess of.
Arundel, Edmund Fitzalan, Earl of.
Arundel, Richard Fitzalan, Earl of.
Arvon.
Ashley, W.J.,
  his Economic History;
  his James and Philip van Artevelde.
Assisi.
Athenry, battle of.
Athis, treaty of.
Athol, David of Strathbolgie, Earl of.
Auberoche, battle of.
Aubigny, Philip of.
Aude, the river.
Audley, Hugh of.
Audley, Earl of Gloucester. See Gloucester.
Audley, James (1258).
Audley, James (d. 1369).
Audleys of Shropshire.
Audrehem, Marshal.
Aumâle, Counts of, See also Albemarle.
Auray;
  battle of;
  Church of St. Michael.
Ausculta, Fili, bull.
Austin Canons of Lanercost.
Austin Friars.
Austria.
Austria, Duke of.
Auvergne.
Auvergne, Counts of.
Auvézère, the river.
Avalon, Hugh of. See Hugh, St.
Avesbury, Robert of, chronicler.
Avesnes;
  house of.
Avesnes, William of. See William,
Count of Hainault.
Avignon,
  the papal court at;
  records of Popes of.
Avon, the river.
Axholme.
Ayermine, William, Bishop of Norwich.
Aymer of Valence, Bishop of Winchester.
Aymer of Valence, Earl of Pembroke. See Pembroke.
Ayr.

"Babylonish Captivity, the."
Bacon, Roger.
Bacon, Robert.
Badenoch, John Comyn, lord of, See Comyn.
Badlesmere, Bartholomew, Lord.
Badlesmere, Lady.
Baker, Geoffrey le, Chronicle of.
"Balance of Power," the.
Baldock (town).
Baldock, Ralph, chancellor and bishop of London.
Baldock, Robert, chancellor.
Baldwin, Count of Flanders, Latin Emperor of the East.
Ball, John,
Balliol, Edward, eldest son of King John of Scotland.
Balliol, John (d. 1269).
Balliol, John, lord of Barnard Castle, and of Galloway, son of the above,
  See also John, King of Scots.
Balsham, Hugh, Bishop of Ely.
Barnburgh Castle.
Bampton in the Bush.
Banaster, Adam.
Banbury.
Banff.
Bankers,
  foreign;
  Jewish;
  Italian.
Bannatyne club, publications of the.
Bannock, the river.
Bannockburn, battle of.
Bar, Joan of. See Joan.
Bar, Count of.
Barbavera.
Barbezieux.
Barbour, John, Bruce.
Bardi, the.
Bardolf, William.
Barfleur.
Bar-gate, the, Lincoln.
Barnard Castle.
Barnes's History of Edward III.
Barnwell.
Barnwell, Canon of.
Barons' war, the.
Barres, William des.
Basset, Gilbert.
Bastides.
Bastilles.
Bath.
Bath and Wells, Bishop of. See Burnell, Robert; Drokensford;
  Shrewsbury, Ralph of, and Harewell, John.
Battle Abbey, chronicle of.
Battles of ----
  Athenry.
  Auberoche.
  Auray.
  Ayr.
  Bannockburn.
  Boroughbridge.
  Bourgneuf Bay.
  Cassel.
  Chalon.
  Chesterfield.
  Cocherel.
  Corte Nuova.
  Courtrai.
  Crecy.
  Dupplin Moor.
  Dunbar.
  Dundalk.
  Evesham.
  Falkirk.
  Halidon Hill.
  La Rochelle.
  Lewes.
  Lincoln.
  Lisieux.
  Madog's Field.
  Maes Madog.
  Mauron.
  Methven.
  Morgarten.
  Morlaix.
  Myton.
  Nájera.
  Neville's Cross.
  Orewyn Bridge.
  Poitiers.
  Pontvallain.
  Sandwich.
  Sluys.
  Stirling Bridge.
  The Thirty.
  Winchelsea.
Bayonne.
Bazas.
Béarn.
Béarn, Gaston, Viscount of. See Gaston.
Beatrice, daughter of Henry III. and wife of John II. of Brittany.
Beatrice, sister of Amadeus III., Count of Savoy, wife of Raymond
  Berengar IV., Count of Provence.
Beaucaire.
Beauce, the.
Beauchamp, Thomas. See Warwick, Earl of.
Beauchamp, William. See Warwick, Earl of.
Beauchamps of Warwick, the.
Beaumanoir, commandant at Josselin.
Beaumaris Castle.
Beaumont, Henry de.
Beaumont, Louis de, Bishop of Durham.
Beaumont, Robert of, Earl of Leicester. See Leicester.
Beaumonts, the.
Beauvais.
Becket, Archbishop, St. Thomas.
Bedale, 182.
Bedford, Castle of;
  scutage of.
Bedfordshire.
Bégard, Abbey of.
Beghards, the.
Beguines, the.
Béhuchet, Nicholas.
Bek, Anthony, Bishop of Durham.
Bek, Thomas, Bishop of St. David's.
Belleville.
Bembro, Robert.
Bémont, Charles;
  his Rôles Gascons;
  his Chartes des libertés anglaises;
  his Simon de Montfort.
Bénauge.
Béne, Amaury of.
Benedict XI.
Benedict XII.
Bengeworth, near Evesham.
Bentley, Sir Walter.
Bere Castle.
Bereford, Sir Simon.
Berg, Count of.
Berger's Blanche de Castile.
Bergerac.
Berkeley Castle.
Berkeleys, the.
Berkhampstead, siege of.
Berkshire.
Berkstead, Stephen, Bishop of Chichester.
Bermingham, John of. See Louth, Earl of.
Bernabò, Visconti, Lord of Milan.
Berners, Lord, translator of Froissart.
Berri, John, Duke of.
Bertrand, Cardinal. See Montfavence.
Berwick.
Béthune,
  Chronique de l'Anonyme de.
Bibliographies, historical
Bidassoa, the.
Bigod, the house of.
Bigod, Hugh, justiciar.
Bigod, Roger, earl marshal and Earl of Norfolk. See Norfolk, Earl of.
Bigorre, county of.
Biscay, Bay of.
Blaauw's Barons' Wars.
Black Prince, the. See Edward, Prince of Wales and Aquitaine.
Black death, the.
Blacklow Hill.
Blanche of Artois, Queen of Navarre.
Blanche of Bourbon, wife of Peter the Great of Castile.
Blanche of Castile, Queen of Louis VIII. and regent of France.
Blanche, Duchess of Lancaster.
Blanche taque, the, in estuary of Somme.
Blaneforde's Chronicle
Blankenberghe.
Blavet, the river.
Blaye.
Bliss' Calendars of Papal Registers.
Blois.
Blois, Charles of. See Charles.
Blois, Theobald, Count of.
Blount, Sir Thos.,
Blundeville, Randolph of, Earl of Chester. See Chester, Randolph, Earl of.
Boccaccio.
Bohemia.
Bohemia, Ottocar, King of.
Bohun, Humphrey, Earl of Hereford. See Hereford.
Bohun, Humphrey of Brecon, son of the Earl of Hereford.
Bohun, Margaret.
Bohun, William, Earl of Northampton. See Northampton.
Bohuns, the.
Bollers, house of.
Bologna.
Bolton.
Bonhommes, order of.
Boniface VIII., Pope.
Boniface of Savoy, Archbishop of Canterbury.
Bordeaux;
  truce of.
Bordeaux, Bertrand de Goth, Archbishop of. See Clement V.
Bordelais, the.
Borderie's Histoire de Brétagne.
Boroughbridge; battle of.
Boroughs; growth of; representation of.
Bothwell Castle.
Boulogne.
Bouquet, Dom, his Recueil des Historiens de la France.
Bourbon, Blanche of. See Blanche.
Bourbonnais.
Bourchier, Sir Robert.
Bourg, of Limoges, the.
Bourg.
Bourgneuf, Bay of.
Bourne.
Boutaric's St. Louis et Alfonse de Poitiers;
  his France sous Philippe le Bel
Bouvines, battle of.
Brabant.
Brabant, Dukes of. See John II., John III., and Wenceslaus.
Brabant, Mary of. See Mary, Queen of France.
Brabazon, Roger de, chief justice after 1295.
Bracton, Henry of,
  his book De Legibus;
  his Note Book.
Bradwardine, Thomas, Archbishop of Canterbury.
Brandenburg.
Brandenburg, Elector of.
Brantingham, Thomas, treasurer, Bishop of Exeter.
Brantôme.
Braose, house of.
Braose, William de,
  his daughter.
Bratton, Henry. See Bracton.
Braybrook, Henry de.
Bréauté, Falkes de.
Brechin.
Brecon.
Bren, Llewelyn. See Llewelyn.
Brentwood.
Bremen.
Brest.
Brétagne bretonnante, La.
Brétigni, treaty of, See also Calais, treaty of.
Bretons. See Brittany.
Brewer's Monumenta Franciscana.
Bridgnorth.
Bridlington.
Bridlington, Canon of, his Gesta Edwardi de Carnarvon.
Bridlington, John of.
Brie.
Brigham, treaty of.
Bristol,
  council meets at;
  confirmation of the Great Charter at;
  castle of;
  channel;
  disturbances at.
Brittany,
  Celtic;
  French.
Brittany, Counts, afterwards Dukes, of. See Arthur I., Arthur II.,
  John II., John III., John IV., John V., Peter Mauclerc.
Brittany, Constance of, wife of Randolph of Chester.
  See Constance of Brittany.
Brittany, John of, Earl of Richmond. See John of Brittany, Earl of
      Richmond.
Britton, lawyer,
  his treatise On the Laws of England.
Bromfield.
Brotherton, Thomas of, Earl of Norfolk. See Thomas of Brotherton.
Bruce, David. See David II., King of Scots.
Bruce, Edward, "King of Ireland."
Bruce, Elizabeth, Queen of Scots. See Elizabeth.
Bruce, Joan, Queen of Scots. See Joan.
Bruce, Robert, Lord of Annandale,
  claimant to the Scots throne (d.1295).
Bruce, Robert, Earl of Carrick, son of the above (d. 1304).
Bruce, Robert, Earl of Carrick, son of the above.
  See also Robert, King of Scots.
Bruce, John Barbour's.
Bruges,
  the Matins of.
  truce of (1375).
Brussels.
Brut, the Trojan.
Brut d'Angleterre, Wace's.
Brut y Tywysogion.
Buch, Captal de.
Buchan, Comyn, John, Earl of.
Buchan, Henry de Beaumont, Earl of,
  See also Beaumont, Henry de.
Builth, town and castle.
Buironfosse.
Bulgaria.
Burgh, the family of.
Burgh, Elizabeth de, wife of Robert, King of Scots.
  See Elizabeth, Queen of Scots.
Burgh, Elizabeth de, wife of Lionel of Clarence.
Burgh, Hubert de, Earl of Kent.
Burgh, Richard de, Earl of Ulster. See Ulster.
Burgh, Richard de, Lord of Connaught.
Burgh, William de, Lord of Connaught and Earl of Ulster,
  See Ulster.
Burgh-on-Sands.
Burghersh, Bartholomew, Bishop of Lincoln.
Burgos.
Burgundy.
Burgundy, Duke of. See Philip the Bold and Philip de Rouvres.
Burnell, Robert, Chancellor, and Bishop of Bath and Wells.
Burton-on-Trent.
Bury, Richard of, Bishop of Durham.
Bury St. Edmunds.
Busses, Spanish.
Butler, Edmund.
Butler of Ireland, James, the.
Byland Abbey.
Bytham Castle.

Cader Idris.
Cadzand, island of.
Caen;
  abbeys of;
  church of St. Peter at.
Caerlaverock. See Carlaverock.
Caerleon, Morgan of.
Caerphilly Castle.
Cahors;
  bishopric of,
  See Quercy.
Calais;
  treaty of,
  See also Brétigni.
Calendar of Close Rolls.
Calendar of Charter Rolls.
Calendars of Documents relating to Scotland and Ireland.
Calendar of Inquisitions Post-mortem and other analogous
documents.
Calendars of Papal Registers.
Calendar of the Patent Rolls.
Calendarium Genealogicum, C. Roberts'.
Calendarium Inquisitionum sive Eschætarum.
Calendarium Rotulorum Cartarum.
Calveley, Sir Hugh.
Cambrai.
Cambrésis, the.
Cambridge;
  university of.
Cambridge, Edmund of Langley, Earl of. See Edmund.
Camville, Nichola de.
"Candlemas, The Burnt,".
Canfranc, treaty of.
Canons, Austin, annals by.
Canterbury;
  cathedral;
  hall, Oxford;
  register.
Canterbury, Archbishops of.
  See Langton, Stephen;
  Grand, Richard le;
  Neville, Ralph, and Blunt, John (archbishops elect);
  Rich, Edmund;
  Boniface of Savoy;
  Kilwardby, Robert;
  Peckham, John;
  Winchelsea, Robert;
  Cobham, Thomas (archbishop elect);
  Reynolds, Walter;
  Meopham, Simon;
  Stratford, John;
  Bradwardine, Thomas;
  Islip, Simon;
  Langham, Simon;
  Whittlesea, William, and Sudbury, Simon.
Cantilupe, St. Thomas of, chancellor and Bishop of Hereford.
Cantilupe, Walter of, Bishop of Worcester.
Cantilupes, the.
Cantreds, the four. See also Perveddwlad.
Caours, Raoul de.
Capes's, W.W., History of the English Church.
Capetians, the.
Captal de Buch, the. See Buch.
Captivity, the Babylonish, of the Papacy.
Carcassonne.
Cardiff Castle.
Cardigan and Cardiganshire.
Cardinerie, La.
Carlaverock, castle;
  chronicle of the siege of.
Carentan.
Carhaix.
Carlisle, town and castle;
  parliament of 1307 at;
  Statute of.
Carlisle, Andrew Harclay, Earl of.
Carmarthen, town and castle, and Carmarthenshire;
  justice of.
Carmelites, the.
Carnarvon, town and castle.
Carnarvon, Edward of. See Edward.
Carnarvonshire.
Carrick, Earl of. See Bruce, Robert.
Carrickfergus.
Carta menatoria.
Cartmel.
Cartularies.
Cassel, battle of.
Cassingham (Kensham), William of.
Castile.
Castile, Alfonso, King of. See Alfonso.
Castile, Blanche of. See Blanche.
Castile, Constance of. See Constance.
Castile, Eleanor of. See Eleanor.
Castile, Ferdinand the Saint, King of. See Ferdinand.
Castile, Henry of Trastamara, King of. See Henry.
Castile, Isabella of. See Isabella.
Castile, Peter the Cruel, King Of. See Peter.
Castile, John, King of Leon and Duke Lancaster. See John of Gaunt.
Castle of
  Aberconway or Conway.
  Abergavenny.
  Aberyswyth.
  Alnwick.
  Alton.
  Bamburgh.
  Barnard.
  Beaumaris.
  Bedford.
  Bere.
  Berkeley.
  Berwick.
  Bothwell.
  Bristol.
  Builth.
  Bytham.
  Caen.
  Caerphilly.
  Cardiff.
  Carlaverocc.
  Carmarthen.
  Carnarvon.
  Castleton, Liddesdale.
  Chepstow.
  Christchurch.
  Clare.
  Colchester.
  Conway. See Aberconway.
  Conisborough.
  Corfe.
  Cornet.
  Criccieth.
  Deganwy.
  Devises.
  Diserth.
  Dolwyddelen.
  Dover.
  Drysllwyn.
  Dublin.
  Dumfries.
  Dunbar.
  Dynevor.
  Edinburgh.
  Flint.
  Fotheringhay.
  Gloucester.
  Grosmont.
  Harlech.
  Hawarden.
  Hedingham.
  Josselin.
  Kenilworth.
  Kilkenny.
  Kidwelly.
  Knaresborough.
  Leeds (Kent).
  Limoges.
  Lincoln.
  London. See Tower of London, the.
  Maud's.
  Monmouth.
  Montgomery.
  Mount Sorrel.
  Newcastle-upon-Tyne.
  Norham.
  Norwich.
  Nottingham.
  Orford.
  Peebles.
  Pevensey.
  Pontefract.
  Powys.
  Rhuddlan.
  Rising.
  Rochester.
  Rockingham.
  Romorantin.
  Rose.
  Roxburgh.
  Saint-Sauveur-le-Vicomte.
  Scarborough.
  Skelton.
  Skenfrith.
  Stirling.
  Swansea.
  Tickhill.
  Tintagel.
  Tunbridge.
  Tutbury.
  Usk.
  Wallingford.
  Wark,
  Warwick.
  Whitecastle.
  Wigmore.
  Windsor.
  Wolvesey (Winchester).
Castles;
  royal;
  adulterine;
  Welsh;
  of South Wales;
  Edward I.'s;
  concentric;
  Scottish.
Castleton Castle, Liddesdale.
Castor, Church of St., Coblenz.
Castorplatz, the, Coblenz.
Caversham.
Celestine V., Pope.
Celts, Irish.
Celts of Scotland, the.
Chaboterie, la.
Chalon, little battle of.
Champagne, Blanche of Artois, Queen of Navarre and Countess of. See
Blanche.
Champagne, Edmund, Count of. See also Edmund of Lancaster.
Champagne, Henry, Count of. See Henry.
Champagne, Joan of. See Joan.
Champagne, Theobald IV., Count of. See Theobald.
Champagne.
Champollion-Figeac's Lettres des rots d'Angleterre.
Chancellor, office of.
Chancery courts, for Wales;
  records.
Chandos, Sir John.
Chandos Herald.
Channel, the Bristol;
  the English.
Channel Islands, the.
Charente, the river.
Charing.
Charles IV., the Emperor.
Charles IV., the Fair, King of France.
Charles V., King of France.
Charles of Anjou, younger brother of Louis IX., Count of Provence and
Charles I., King of Sicily.
Charles the Bad, Count of Evreux and King of Navarre.
Charles of Blois, claimant to Duchy of Brittany.
Charles of La Cerda.
Charles of Moravia, King of the Romans.
  See Charles IV., the Emperor.
Charles, Duke of Normandy.
  See also Charles V., King of France.
Charles of Salerno, afterwards Charles II. of Sicily.
Charles, Count of Valois.
Charlemagne.
Charlton, Tohn, lord of Powys.
Charltons of Powys, the.
Charter, the Great;
  the forest;
  Rolls, the, See Rolls.
Charterhouse, the London.
Charters, confirmations of the;
  of London;
  Carta Mercatoria;
  as sources for history.
Chartley.
Chartres.
Châteauneuf.
Châteauroux.
Châtelherault.
Chaucer, Geoffrey.
Chauvigny.
Chaworth, Payne of.
Cheapside.
Chepstow.
Cher, the river.
Cherbourg.
Cheshire;
  palatine earldom of;
  palatine courts of;
  records of county palatine of.
Chester.
Chester, Edward, Earl of. See Edward I., Edward II. and Edward III.
Chester, John de Lacy, Constable of. See Lacy.
Chester, John the Scot, Earl of. See also Huntingdon.
Chester, Simon de Montfort, Earl of. See Leicester.
Chester, Randolph Blundeville, Earl of.
Chesterfield, battle of.
Chichester.
Chichester, Bishops of. See Berkstead, Stephen; Neville, Ralth, and
Stratford, Robert.
Chilham, barony of, Kent.
Chilterns, the.
Chinon.
Chirk.
Chirk, Roger Mortimer of. See Mortimer, Roger, of Chirk.
Christchurch Castle.
Christopher, The.
Chroniclers, the.
Chronicles as sources of history.
Cinque Ports, the.
Cirencester.
Cistercian, nuns of Eastminster;
  monks of Whalley.
Cistercians, the.
Clare Castle;
  the house of.
Clare, Eleanor de. See Despenser, Eleanor de.
Clare, Elizabeth of.
Clare, Gilbert of, Earl of Gloucester. See Gloucester.
Clare, Margaret of.
Clare, Richard of, Earl of Gloucester. See Gloucester.
Clarence, Duchy of. See Lionel of Antwerp.
Clarendon.
Clares, the poor.
Clark's, G.T., Mediæval Military Architecture.
Clark's, J.W., Observances in use at Barnwell Priory.
Clement IV., Pope.
Clement V., Pope.
Clement VI., Pope.
Clergy, taxation of the.
Clericis laicos, the bull.
Clerkenwell.
Clermont, Marshal.
Cleves, Count of.
Clifford, Robert.
Clifford, Roger.
Cliffords, the.
Clinton, Earl of Huntingdon. See Huntingdon.
Clisson, Oliver de.
Cloth, manufacture of English.
Clydesdale.
Clwyd, the river.
Clun.
Cobham, Thomas of, Archbishop elect of Canterbury.
Coblenz.
Cocherel, battle of.
Cog Thomas, the.
Coggeshall's Chronicle.
Cognac.
Coinage.
Colchester, Castle of.
Coldstream.
Colleges, growth of.
Cologne.
Cologne, Archbishop of.
Colons, faction of the.
Commerce under Edward III.
Comminges, Counts of.
Commons, house of.
Companies, the free.
Company, the White.
Compiègne.
Compostella.
Comyn, John, the elder, lord of Badenoch.
Comyn, John, of Badenoch, the younger, or the Red, regent of Scotland.
Comyn, John, of Buchan. See Buchan, Earl of.
Confirmation of the charters. See Charters.
Conisborough Castle.
Connaught.
Connaught, Phelim O'Connor, King of,
Connaught, King of.
Conrad, son of Frederick II.
Conservators of the Peace.
Consilium ordinarium, the.
Constable, office of.
Constance of Brittany.
Constance of Castile, daughter of Peter the Cruel, wife of John, Duke
of Lancaster.
Convocation.
Conway, the river.
Corfe Castle.
Cormeilles, Abbey of.
Cornet Castle,
Cornouailles.
Cornwall;
  earldom of.
Cornwall, Dunstanville, Earls of. See Dunstanville.
Cornwall, Edmund, Earl of. See Edmund.
Cornwall, Edward, Duke of. See Edward, the Black Prince.
Cornwall, John of Eltham, Earl of. See John.
Cornwall, Peter Gaveston, Earl of. See Gaveston.
Cornwall, Richard, Earl of. See Richard.
Corte Nuova, battle of.
Côtentin, the.
Cotton, Bartholomew's Historia Anglicana.
Coucy, Enguerrand de.
Councils, General, at Lyons.
Court of King's Bench, records of.
Court of Common Pleas, records of.
Court of the County.
Courts of Chancery and Exchequer in Wales.
Courtenay, House of, Earls of Devon.
Courtenay, William, Bishop of London.
Courtrai;
  battle of.
Coventry, Roger Northburgh, Bishops of. See Northburgh, Roger.
Coville's Histoire de France.
Craven.
Crécy, battle of.
Crécy-en-Ponthieu.
Cree, the river.
Cressingham, Hugh.
Creuse, the river.
Criccieth Castle.
Crockart.
Crossbowmen, Genoese.
Crotoy, Le.
Crusades, the.
Crutched friars, the.
Cumberland.
Cunningham's, W., Growth of English Industry.
Curzon, Robert.
Customs.
"Custom, the Great and Ancient,"; "the New and Small,".
Cuvelier's Vie de Bertrand de Guesclin.
Cymry, the. See also Wales.
Cyprus.
Cyprus, Lusignan kings of.

Dagworth, Sir Thomas.
Damietta, Crusade of.
Damietta, Archbishop of. See Roches, Peter des.
Damme.
Dampierre, Guy, Count of Flanders. See Guy.
Dancaster, John.
Dante.
Darlington, John of, Archbishop of Dublin.
David I., King of Scots.
David II., son of Robert Bruce, King of Scots.
David I., an Llewelyn, Prince of Wales.
David II., ap Griffith, Prince of Wales.
David, Earl of Huntingdon. See Huntingdon.
David of Strathbolgie, Earl of Athol. See Athol.
Dax.
Dean, Forest of.
"Decorated" style of architecture.
Deddington.
Deganwy, Castle of.
Delisle's Histoire de Saint-Sauveur-le-Vicomte.
Denbigh, town, lordship and castle of.
Denifle's Désolation des Églises de France, etc.;
  his Entstehung der Universitäten.
Derby, Henry of Grosmont, Earl of. See also Lancaster.
Derby, Robert Ferrars, Earl of.
Derby, Thomas, Earl of Lancaster and. See Lancaster.
Derby, William of Ferrars, Earl of.
Deschamps, Eustace.
Despenser, Eleanor de, wife of Hugh le Despenser, the younger.
Despenser, Hugh, justiciar.
Despenser, Hugh, the elder, Earl of Winchester, son of the justiciar.
Despenser, Hugh, the younger, Lord of Glamorgan, son of the foregoing.
Devizes, Castle of.
Devon, earldom of, Falkes de Bréauté as warden of.
Devon, Courtenays, earls of.
Dictum de Kenilworth, the.
Dinan.
Disafforestments.
Diserth, Castle of.
Disinherited, the (after Evesham);
  the, Scotch.
Disseisin, novel.
Dolwyddelen Castle.
Dominic, St.
Dominicans.
Don, the river.
Donaldbane, brother of Malcolm Canmore.
Dordogne, the river.
Dordrecht.
Dorking.
Dorsetshire.
Douai.
Douglas, Sir Archibald.
Douglas, Sir James.
Douglas, Sir William.
Douglas, Sir William (at Poitiers).
Dover, town and castle;
  straits of.
Dovey the river.
Dowell's, S., History of Taxation.
Downs, the north;
  the south.
Drokensford, Bishop of Bath and Wells.
Dublin, Castle of.
Dublin, Archbishop of. See Hotham, William of, Archbishop of.
Dubois, Peter.
Dugdale's Monasticon.
Dumfries.
Dunbar, battle of.
Dunfermline.
Dunkeld, Bishop of.
Duns Scotus.
Dunstable.
Dunstanville, house of.
Dupplin Moor, battle of.
Durham;
  bishopric of;
  records of.
Durham, Bishops of.
  See Bek, Anthony;
  Beaumont, Louis de;
  and Bury, Richard of.
Dynevor Castle.

