AGNES OF SORRENTO.

CHAPTER I.

THE OLD TOWN.

The setting sunbeams slant over the antique gateway of Sorrento, fusing into a golden bronze
the brown freestone vestments of old Saint Antonio, who with his heavy stone mitre and upraised
hands has for centuries kept watch thereupon.

A quiet time he has of it up there in the golden Italian air, in petrified act of blessing,
while orange lichens and green mosses from year to year embroider quaint patterns on the seams
of his sacerdotal vestments, and small tassels of grass volunteer to ornament the folds of
his priestly drapery, and golden showers of blossoms from some more hardy plant fall from his
ample sleeve-cuffs. Little birds perch and chitter and wipe their beaks unconcernedly, now
on the tip of his nose and now on the point of his mitre, while the world below goes on its
way pretty much as it did when the good saint was alive, and, in despair of the human brotherhood,
took to preaching to the birds and the fishes.

Whoever passed beneath this old arched gateway, thus saint-guarded, in the year of our Lord's
grace--, might have seen under its shadow, sitting opposite to a stand of golden oranges, the
little Agnes.

A very pretty picture was she, reader.--with such a face as you sometimes see painted in those
wayside shrines of sunny Italy, where the lamp burns pale at evening, and gillyflower and cyclamen
are renewed with every morning.

She might have been fifteen or thereabouts, but was so small of stature that she seemed yet
a child. Her black hair was parted in a white unbroken seam down to the high forehead, whose
serious arch, like that of a cathedral-door, spoke of thought and prayer. Beneath the shadows
of this brow lay brown, translucent eyes, into whose thoughtful depths one might look as pilgrims
gaze into the waters of some saintly well, cool and pure down to the unblemished sand at the
bottom. The small lips had a gentle compression which indicated a repressed strength of feeling;
while the straight line of the nose, and the flexible, delicate nostril, were perfect as in
those sculptured fragments of the antique which the soil of Italy so often gives forth to the
day from the sepulchres of the past. The habitual pose of the head and face had the shy uplooking
grace of a violet; and yet there was a grave tranquillity of expression, which gave a peculiar
degree of character to the whole figure.

At the moment at which we have called your attention, the fair head is bent, the long eyelashes
lie softly down on the pale, smooth cheek; for the Ave Maria bell is sounding from the Cathedral
of Sorrento, and the child is busy with her beads.

By her side sits a woman of some threescore years, tall, stately, and squarely formed, with
ample breadth of back and size of chest, like the robust dames of Sorrento. Her strong Roman
nose, the firm, determined outline of her mouth, and a certain energy in every motion, speak
the woman of will and purpose. There is a degree of vigor in the decision with which she lays
down her spindle and bows her head, as a good Christian of those days would, at the swinging
of the evening bell.

But while the soul of the child in its morning freshness, free from pressure or conscience
of earthly care, rose like an illuminated mist to heaven, the words the white-haired woman
repeated were twined with threads of worldly prudence,--thoughts of how many oranges she had
sold, with a rough guess at the probable amount for the day,--and her fingers wandered from
her beads a moment to see if the last coin had been swept from the stand into her capacious
pocket, and her eyes wandering after them suddenly made her aware of the fact that a handsome
cavalier was standing in the gate, regarding her pretty grandchild with looks of undisguised
admiration.

"Let him look!" she said to herself, with a grim clasp on her rosary;--"a fair face draws buyers,
and our oranges must be turned into money; but he who does more than look has an affair with
me;--so gaze away, my master, and take it out in buying oranges!--Ave, Maria! ora pro nobis,
nunc et," etc., etc.

A few moments, and the wave of prayer which had flowed down the quaint old shadowy street,
bowing all heads as the wind bowed the scarlet tassels of neighboring clover-fields, was passed,
and all the world resumed the work of earth just where they left off when the bell began.

"Good even to you, pretty maiden!" said the cavalier, approaching the stall of the orange-woman
with the easy, confident air of one secure of a ready welcome, and bending down on the yet
prayerful maiden the glances of a pair of piercing hazel eyes that looked out on each side
of his aquiline nose with the keenness of a falcon's.

"Good even to you, pretty one! We shall take you for a saint, and worship you in right earnest,
if you raise not those eyelashes soon."

"Sir! my lord!" said the girl,--a bright color flushing into her smooth brown cheeks, and her
large dreamy eyes suddenly upraised with a flutter, as of a bird about to take flight.

"Agnes, bethink yourself!" said the white-haired dame;--"the gentleman asks the price of your
oranges;--be alive, child!"

"Ah, my lord," said the young girl, "here are a dozen fine ones."

"Well, you shall give them me, pretty one," said the young man, throwing a gold piece down
on the stand with a careless ring.

"Here, Agnes, run to the stall of Raphael the poulterer for change," said the adroit dame,
picking up the gold.

"Nay, good mother, by your leave," said the unabashed cavalier; "I make my change with youth
and beauty thus!" And with the word he stooped down and kissed the fair forehead between the eyes.

"For shame, Sir!" said the elderly woman, raising her distaff,--her great glittering eyes flashing
beneath her silver hair like tongues of lightning from a white cloud, "Have a care!--this child
is named for blessed Saint Agnes, and is under her protection."

"The saints must pray for us, when their beauty makes us forget ourselves," said the young
cavalier, with a smile. "Look me in the face, little one," he added;--"say, wilt thou pray for me?"

The maiden raised her large serious eyes, and surveyed the haughty, handsome face with that
look of sober inquiry which one sometimes sees in young children, and the blush slowly faded
from, her cheek, as a cloud fades after sunset.

"Yes, my lord," she answered, with a grave simplicity,--"I will pray for you."

"And hang this upon the shrine of Saint Agnes for my sake," he added, drawing from his finger
a diamond ring, which he dropped into her hand; and before mother or daughter could add another
word or recover from their surprise, he had thrown the corner of his mantle over his shoulder
and was off down the narrow street, humming the refrain of a gay song.

"You have struck a pretty dove with that bolt," said another cavalier, who appeared to have
been observing the proceeding, and now, stepping forward, joined him.

"Like enough," said the first, carelessly.

"The old woman keeps her mewed up like a singing-bird," said the second; "and if a fellow wants
speech of her, it's as much as his crown is worth; for Dame Elsie has a strong arm, and her
distaff is known to be heavy."

"Upon my word," said the first cavalier, stopping and throwing a glance backward,--"where do
they keep her?"

"Oh, in a sort of pigeon's nest up above the Gorge; but one never sees her, except under the
fire of her grandmother's eyes. The little one is brought up for a saint, they say, and goes
nowhere but to mass, confession, and the sacrament."

"Humph!" said the other, "she looks like some choice old picture of Our Lady,--not a drop of
human blood in her. When I kissed her forehead, she looked into my face as grave and innocent
as a babe. One is tempted to try what one can do in such a case."

"Beware the grandmother's distaff!" said the other, laughing.

"I've seen old women before," said the cavalier, as they turned down the street and were lost
to view.

Meanwhile the grandmother and granddaughter were roused from the mute astonishment in which
they were gazing after the young cavalier by a tittering behind them; and a pair of bright
eyes looked out upon, them from beneath a bundle of long, crimson-headed clover, whose rich
carmine tints were touched to brighter life by setting sunbeams.

There stood Giulietta, the head coquette of the Sorrento girls, with her broad shoulders, full
chest, and great black eyes, rich and heavy as those of the silver-haired ox for whose benefit
she had been cutting clover. Her bronzed cheek was smooth as that of any statue, and showed
a color like that of an open pomegranate; and the opulent, lazy abundance of her ample form,
with her leisurely movements, spoke an easy and comfortable nature,--that is to say, when Giulietta
was pleased; for it is to be remarked that there lurked certain sparkles deep down in her great
eyes, which might, on occasion, blaze out into sheet-lightning, like her own beautiful skies,
which, lovely as they are, can thunder and sulk with terrible earnestness when the fit takes
them. At present, however, her face was running over with mischievous merriment, as she slyly
pinched little Agnes by the ear.

"So you know not yon gay cavalier, little sister?" she said, looking askance at her from under
her long lashes.

"No, indeed! What has an honest girl to do with knowing gay cavaliers?" said Dame Elsie, bestirring
herself with packing the remaining oranges into a basket, which she covered trimly with a heavy
linen towel of her own weaving. "Girls never come to good who let their eyes go walking through
the earth, and have the names of all the wild gallants on their tongues. Agnes knows no such
nonsense,--blessed be her gracious patroness, with Our Lady and Saint Michael!"

"I hope there is no harm in knowing what is right before one's eyes," said Giulietta. "Anybody
must be blind and deaf not to know the Lord Adrian. All the girls in Sorrento know him. They
say he is even greater than he appears,--that he is brother to the King himself; at any rate,
a handsomer and more gallant gentleman never wore spurs."

"Let him keep to his own kind," said Elsie. "Eagles make bad work in dovecots. No good comes
of such gallants for us."

"Nor any harm, that I ever heard of," said Giulietta. "But let me see, pretty one,--what did
he give you? Holy Mother! what a handsome ring!"

"It is to hang on the shrine of Saint Agnes," said the younger girl, looking up with simplicity.

A loud laugh was the first answer to this communication. The scarlet clover-tops shook and
quivered with the merriment.

"To hang on the shrine of Saint Agnes!" Giulietta repeated. "That is a little too good!"

"Go, go, you baggage!" said Elsie, wrathfully brandishing her spindle. "If ever you get a husband,
I hope he'll give you a good beating! You need it, I warrant! Always stopping on the bridge
there, to have cracks with the young men! Little enough you know of saints, I dare say! So
keep away from my child!--Come, Agnes," she said, as she lifted the orange-basket on to her
head; and, straightening her tall form, she seized the girl by the hand to lead her away.

CHAPTER II.

THE DOVE-COT.

The old town of Sorrento is situated on an elevated plateau, which stretches into the sunny
waters of the Mediterranean, guarded on all sides by a barrier of mountains which defend it
from bleak winds and serve to it the purpose of walls to a garden. Here, groves of oranges
and lemons,--with their almost fabulous coincidence of fruitage with flowers, fill the air
with perfume, which blends with that of roses and jessamines; and the fields are so starred
and enamelled with flowers that they might have served as the type for those Elysian realms
sung by ancient poets. The fervid air is fanned by continual sea-breezes, which give a delightful
elasticity to the otherwise languid climate. Under all these cherishing influences, the human
being develops a wealth and luxuriance of physical beauty unknown in less favored regions.
In the region about Sorrento one may be said to have found the land where beauty is the rule
and not the exception. The singularity there is not to see handsome points of physical proportion,
but rather to see those who are without them. Scarce a man, woman, or child you meet who has
not some personal advantage to be commended, while even striking beauty is common. Also, under
these kindly skies, a native courtesy and gentleness of manner make themselves felt. It would
seem as if humanity, rocked in this flowery cradle, and soothed by so many daily caresses and
appliances of nursing Nature, grew up with all that is kindliest on the outward,--not repressed
and beat in, as under the inclement atmosphere and stormy skies of the North.

The town of Sorrento itself overhangs the sea, skirting along rocky shores, which, hollowed
here and there into picturesque grottoes, and fledged with a wild plumage of brilliant flowers
and trailing vines, descend in steep precipices to the water. Along the shelly beach, at the
bottom, one can wander to look out on the loveliest prospect in the world. Vesuvius rises with
its two peaks softly clouded in blue and purple mists, which blend with its ascending vapors,--Naples
and the adjoining villages at its base gleaming in the distance like a fringe of pearls on
a regal mantle. Nearer by, the picturesque rocky shores of the island of Capri seem to pulsate
through the dreamy, shifting mists that veil its sides; and the sea shimmers and glitters like
the neck of a peacock with an iridescent mingling of colors: the whole air is a glorifying
medium, rich in prismatic hues of enchantment.

The town on three sides is severed from the main land by a gorge two hundred feet in depth
and forty or fifty in breadth, crossed by a bridge resting on double arches, the construction
of which dates back to the time of the ancient Romans. This bridge affords a favorite lounging-place
for the inhabitants, and at evening a motley assemblage may be seen lolling over its moss-grown
sides,--men with their picturesque knit caps of scarlet or brown falling gracefully on one
shoulder, and women with their shining black hair and the enormous pearl earrings which are
the pride and heirlooms of every family. The present traveller at Sorrento may remember standing
on this bridge and looking down the gloomy depths of the gorge, to where a fair villa, with
its groves of orange-trees and gardens, overhangs the tremendous depths below.

Hundreds of years since, where this villa now stands was the simple dwelling of the two women
whose history we have begun to tell you. There you might have seen a small stone cottage with
a two-arched arcade in front, gleaming brilliantly white out of the dusky foliage of an orange-orchard.
The dwelling was wedged like a bird-box between two fragments of rock, and behind it the land
rose rocky, high, and steep, so as to form a natural wall. A small ledge or terrace of cultivated
land here hung in air,--below it, a precipice of two hundred feet down into the Gorge of Sorrento.
A couple of dozen orange-trees, straight and tall, with healthy, shining bark, here shot up
from the fine black volcanic soil, and made with their foliage a twilight shadow on the ground,
so deep that no vegetation, save a fine velvet moss, could dispute their claim to its entire
nutritious offices. These trees were the sole wealth of the women and the sole ornament of
the garden; but, as they stood there, not only laden with golden fruit, but fragrant with pearly
blossoms, they made the little rocky platform seem a perfect Garden of the Hesperides. The
stone cottage, as we have said, had an open, whitewashed arcade in front, from which one could
look down into the gloomy depths of the gorge, as into some mysterious underworld. Strange
and weird it seemed, with its fathomless shadows and its wild grottoes, over which hung, silently
waving, long pendants of ivy, while dusky gray aloes uplifted their horned heads from great
rock-rifts, like elfin spirits struggling upward out of the shade. Nor was wanting the usual
gentle poetry of flowers; for white iris leaned its fairy pavilion over the black void like
a pale-cheeked princess from the window of some dark enchanted castle, and scarlet geranium
and golden broom and crimson gladiolus waved and glowed in the shifting beams of the sunlight.
Also there was in this little spot what forms the charm of Italian gardens always,--the sweet
song and prattle of waters. A clear mountain-spring burst through the rock on one side of the
little cottage, and fell with a lulling noise into a quaint moss-grown water-trough, which
had been in former times the sarcophagus of some old Roman sepulchre. Its sides were richly
sculptured with figures and leafy scrolls and arabesques, into which the sly-footed lichens
with quiet growth had so insinuated themselves as in some places almost to obliterate the original
design; while, round the place where the water fell, a veil of ferns and maiden's-hair, studded
with tremulous silver drops, vibrated to its soothing murmur. The superfluous waters, drained
off by a little channel on one side, were conducted through the rocky parapet of the garden,
whence they trickled and tinkled from rock to rock, falling with a continual drip among the
swaying ferns and pendent ivy-wreaths, till they reached the little stream at the bottom of
the gorge. This parapet or garden-wall was formed of blocks or fragments of what had once been
white marble, the probable remains of the ancient tomb from which the sarcophagus was taken.
Here and there a marble acanthus-leaf, or the capital of an old column, or a fragment of sculpture
jutted from under the mosses, ferns, and grasses with which prodigal Nature had filled every
interstice and carpeted the whole. These sculptured fragments everywhere in Italy seem to whisper
from the dust, of past life and death, of a cycle of human existence forever gone, over whose
tomb the life of to-day is built.

"Sit down and rest, my dove," said Dame Elsie to her little charge, as they entered their little
inclosure.

Here she saw for the first time, what she had not noticed in the heat and hurry of her ascent,
that the girl was panting and her gentle bosom rising and falling in thick heart-beats, occasioned
by the haste with which she had drawn her onward.

"Sit down, dearie, and I will get you a bit of supper."

"Yes, grandmother, I will. I must tell my beads once for the soul of the handsome gentleman
that kissed my forehead to-night."

"How did you know that he was handsome, child?" said the old dame, with some sharpness in her
voice.

"He bade me look on him, grandmother, and I saw it."

"You must put such thoughts away, child," said the old dame.

"Why must I?" said the girl, looking up with an eye as clear and unconscious as that of a three-year
old child.

"If she does not think, why should I tell her?" said Dame Elsie, as she turned to go into the
house, and left the child sitting on the mossy parapet that overlooked the gorge. Thence she
could see far off, not only down the dim, sombre abyss, but out to the blue Mediterranean beyond,
now calmly lying in swathing-bands of purple, gold, and orange, while the smoky cloud that
overhung Vesuvius became silver and rose in the evening light.

There is always something of elevation and parity that seems to come over one from being in
an elevated region. One feels morally as well as physically above the world, and from that
clearer air able to look down on it calmly with disengaged freedom. Our little maiden, sat
for a few moments gazing, her large brown eyes dilating with a tremulous lustre, as if tears
were half of a mind to start in them, and her lips apart with a delicate earnestness, like
one who is pursuing some pleasing inner thought. Suddenly rousing herself, she began by breaking
the freshest orange-blossoms from the golden-fruited trees, and, kissing and pressing them
to her bosom, she proceeded to remove the faded flowers of the morning from before a little
rude shrine in the rock, where, in a sculptured niche, was a picture of the Madonna and Child,
with a locked glass door in front of it. The picture was a happy transcript of one of the fairest
creations of the religious school of Florence, done by one of those rustic copyists of whom
Italy is full, who appear to possess the instinct of painting, and to whom we owe many of those
sweet faces which sometimes look down on us by the way-side from rudest and homeliest shrines.

The poor fellow by whom it had been painted was one to whom years before Dame Elsie had given
food and shelter for many months during a lingering illness; and he had painted so much of
his dying heart and hopes into it that it had a peculiar and vital vividness in its power of
affecting the feelings. Agnes had been familiar with this picture from early infancy. No day
of her life had the flowers failed to be freshly placed before it. It had seemed to smile down
sympathy on her childish joys, and to cloud over with her childish sorrows. It was less a picture
to her than a presence; and the whole air of the little orange-garden seemed to be made sacred
by it. When she had arranged her flowers, she kneeled down and began to say prayers for the
soul of the young gallant.

"Holy Jesus," she said, "he is young, rich, handsome, and a king's brother; and for all these
things the Fiend may tempt him to forget his God and throw away his soul. Holy Mother, give
him good counsel!"

"Come, child, to your supper," said Dame Elsie. "I have milked the goats, and everything is ready."

CHAPTER III.

THE GORGE.

After her light supper was over, Agnes took her distaff, wound with shining white flax, and
went and seated herself in her favorite place, on the low parapet that overlooked the gorge.

This ravine, with its dizzy depths, its waving foliage, its dripping springs, and the low murmur
of the little stream that pursued its way far down at the bottom, was one of those things which
stimulated her impressible imagination, and filled her with a solemn and vague delight. The
ancient Italian tradition made it the home of fauns and dryads, wild woodland creatures, intermediate
links between vegetable life and that of sentient and reasoning humanity. The more earnest
faith that came in with Christianity, if it had its brighter lights in an immortality of blessedness,
had also its deeper shadows in the intenser perceptions it awakened of sin and evil, and of
the mortal struggle by which the human spirit must avoid endless woe and rise to endless felicity.
The myths with which the colored Italian air was filled in mediaeval ages no longer resembled
those graceful, floating, cloud-like figures one sees in the ancient chambers of Pompeii,--the
bubbles and rainbows of human fancy, rising aimless and buoyant, with a mere freshness of animal
life, against a black background of utter and hopeless ignorance as to man's past or future.
They were rather expressed by solemn images of mournful, majestic angels and of triumphant
saints, or fearful, warning presentations of loathsome fiends. Each lonesome gorge and sombre
dell had tales no more of tricky fauns and dryads, but of those restless, wandering demons
who, having lost their own immortality of blessedness, constantly lie in wait to betray frail
humanity, and cheat it of that glorious inheritance bought by the Great Redemption.

The education of Agnes had been one which rendered her whole system peculiarly sensitive and
impressible to all influences from the invisible and unseen. Of this education we shall speak
more particularly hereafter. At present we see her sitting in the twilight on the moss-grown
marble parapet, her distaff, with its silvery flax, lying idly in her hands, and her widening
dark eyes gazing intently into the gloomy gorge below, from which arose the far-off complaining
babble of the brook at the bottom and the shiver and sigh of evening winds through the trailing
ivy. The white mist was slowly rising, wavering, undulating, and creeping its slow way up the
sides of the gorge. Now it hid a tuft of foliage, and now it wreathed itself around a horned
clump of aloes, and, streaming far down below it in the dimness, made it seem like the goblin
robe of some strange, supernatural being.

The evening light had almost burned out in the sky: only a band of vivid red lay low in the
horizon out to sea, and the round full moon was just rising like a great silver lamp, while
Vesuvius with its smoky top began in the obscurity to show its faintly flickering fires. A
vague agitation seemed to oppress the child; for she sighed deeply, and often repeated with
fervor the Ave Maria.

At this moment there began to rise from the very depths of the gorge below her the sound of
a rich tenor voice, with a slow, sad modulation, and seeming to pulsate upward through the
filmy, shifting mists. It was one of those voices which seem fit to be the outpouring of some
spirit denied all other gifts of expression, and rushing with passionate fervor through this
one gate of utterance. So distinctly were the words spoken, that they seemed each one to rise
as with a separate intelligence out of the mist, and to knock at the door of the heart.

  Sad is my life, and lonely!
  No hope for me,
  Save thou, my love, my only,
  I see!

  Where art then, O my fairest?
  Where art thou gone?
  Dove of the rock, I languish
  Alone!

  They say thou art so saintly,
  Who dare love thee?
  Yet bend thine eyelids holy
  On me!

  Though heaven alone possess thee,
  Thou dwell'st above,
  Yet heaven, didst thou but know it,
  Is love.

There was such an intense earnestness in these sounds, that large tears gathered in the wide,
dark eyes, and fell one after another upon the sweet alyssum and maiden's-hair that grew in
the crevices of the marble wall. She shivered and drew away from the parapet, and thought of
stories she had heard the nuns tell of wandering spirits who sometimes in lonesome places pour
forth such entrancing music as bewilders the brain of the unwary listener, and leads him to
some fearful destruction.

"Agnes!" said the sharp voice of old Elsie, appearing at the door,--"here! where are you?"

"Here, grandmamma."

"Who's that singing this time o' night?"

"I don't know, grandmamma."

Somehow the child felt as if that singing were strangely sacred to her,--a rapport between
her and something vague and invisible, which might yet become dear.

"Is't down in the gorge?" said the old woman, coming with her heavy, decided step to the parapet,
and looking over, her keen black eyes gleaming like dagger-blades info the mist. "If there's
anybody there," she said, "let them go away, and not be troubling honest women with any of
their caterwauling. Come, Agnes," she said, pulling the girl by the sleeve, "you must be tired,
my lamb! and your evening-prayers are always so long, best be about them, girl, so that old
grandmamma may put you to bed. What ails the girl? Been crying! Your hand is cold as a stone."

"Grandmamma, what if that might be a spirit?" she said. "Sister Rosa told me stories of singing
spirits that have been in this very gorge."

"Likely enough," said Dame Elsie; "but what's that to us? Let 'em sing! --so long as we don't
listen, where's the harm done? We will sprinkle holy water all round the parapet, and say the
office of Saint Agnes, and let them sing till they are hoarse."

Such was the triumphant view which this energetic good woman took of the power of the means
of grace which her church placed at her disposal.

Nevertheless, while Agnes was kneeling at her evening-prayers, the old dame consoled herself
with a soliloquy, as with a brush she vigorously besprinkled the premises with holy water.

"Now, here's the plague of a girl! If she's handsome,--and nobody wants one that isn't,--why,
then, it's a purgatory to look after her. This one is good enough,--none of your hussies, like
Giulietta: but the better they are, the more sure to have fellows after them. A murrain on
that cavalier,--king's brother, or what not!--it was he serenading, I'll be bound. I must tell
Antonio, and have the girl married, for aught I see: and I don't want to give her to him either;
he didn't bring her up. There's no peace for us mothers. Maybe I'll tell Father Francesco about
it. That's the way poor little Isella was carried away. Singing is of the Devil, I believe;
it always bewitches girls. I'd like to have poured some hot oil down the rocks: I'd have made
him squeak in another tone, I reckon. Well, well! I hope I shall come in for a good seat in
paradise for all the trouble I've had with her mother, and am like to have with her,--that's all!"

In an hour more, the large, round, sober moon was shining fixedly on the little mansion in
the rocks, silvering the glossy darkness of the orange-leaves, while the scent of the blossoms
arose like clouds about the cottage. The moonlight streamed through the unglazed casement,
and made a square of light on the little bed where Agnes was sleeping, in which square her
delicate face was framed, with its tremulous and spiritual expression most resembling in its
sweet plaintive purity some of the Madonna faces of Frà Angelico,--those tender wild-flowers
of Italian religion and poetry.

By her side lay her grandmother, with those sharp, hard, clearly cut features, so worn and
bronzed by time, so lined with labor and care, as to resemble one of the Fates in the picture
of Michel Angelo; and even in her sleep she held the delicate lily hand of the child in her
own hard, brown one, with a strong and determined clasp.

While they sleep, we must tell something more of the story of the little Agnes,--of what she
is, and what are the causes which have made her such.

CHAPTER IV.

WHO AND WHAT.

Old Elsie was not born a peasant. Originally she was the wife of a steward in one of those
great families of Rome whose state and traditions were princely. Elsie, as her figure and profile
and all her words and movements indicated, was of a strong, shrewd, ambitious, and courageous
character, and well disposed to turn to advantage every gift with which Nature had endowed her.

Providence made her a present of a daughter whose beauty was wonderful, even in a country where
beauty is no uncommon accident. In addition to her beauty, the little Isella had quick intelligence,
wit, grace, and spirit. As a child she became the pet and plaything of the Duchess whom Elsie
served. This noble lady, pressed by the ennui which is always the moth and rust on the purple
and gold of rank and wealth, had, as other noble ladies had in those days, and have now, sundry
pets: greyhounds, white and delicate, that looked as if they were made of Sèvres china; spaniels
with long silky ears and fringy paws; apes and monkeys, that made at times sad devastations
in her wardrobe; and a most charming little dwarf, that was ugly enough to frighten the very
owls, and spiteful as he was ugly. She had, moreover, peacocks, and macaws, and parrots, and
all sorts of singing-birds, and falcons of every breed, and horses, and hounds,--in short,
there is no saying what she did not have. One day she took it into her head to add the little
Isella to the number of her acquisitions. With the easy grace of aristocracy, she reached out
her jewelled hand and took Elsie's one flower to add to her conservatory,--and Elsie was only
too proud to have it so.

Her daughter was kept constantly about the person of the Duchess, and instructed in all the
wisdom which would have been allowed her, had she been the Duchess's own daughter, which, to
speak the truth, was in those days nothing very profound,--consisting of a little singing and
instrumentation, a little embroidery and dancing, with the power of writing her own name and
of reading a love-letter.

All the world knows that the very idea of a pet is something to be spoiled for the amusement
of the pet-owner; and Isella was spoiled in the most particular and circumstantial manner.
She had suits of apparel for every day in the year, and jewels without end,--for the Duchess
was never weary of trying the effect of her beauty in this and that costume; so that she sported
through the great grand halls and down the long aisles of the garden much like a bright-winged
hummingbird, or a damsel-fly all green and gold. She was a genuine child of Italy,--full of
feeling, spirit, and genius,--alive in every nerve to the finger-tips; and under the tropical
sunshine of her mistress's favor she grew as an Italian rose-bush does, throwing its branches
freakishly over everything in a wild labyrinth of perfume, brightness, and thorns.

For a while her life was a triumph, and her mother triumphed with her at an humble distance.
The Duchess had no daughter, and was devoted to her with the blind fatuity with which ladies
of rank at times will invest themselves in a caprice. She arrogated to herself all the praises
of her beauty and wit, allowed her to flirt and make conquests to her heart's content, and
engaged to marry her to some handsome young officer of her train, when she had done being amused
with her.

Now we must not wonder that a young head of fifteen should have been turned by this giddy elevation,
nor that an old head of fifty should have thought all things were possible in the fortune of
such a favorite. Nor must we wonder that the young coquette, rich in the laurels of a hundred
conquests, should have turned her bright eyes on the son and heir, when he came home from the
University of Bologna. Nor is it to be wondered at that this same son and heir, being a man
as well as a duke's son, should have done as other men did,--fallen desperately in love with
this dazzling, sparkling, piquant mixture of matter and spirit, which no university can prepare
a young man to comprehend,--which always seemed to run from him, and yet always threw a Parthian
shot behind her as she fled. Nor is it to be wondered at, if this same duke's son, after a
week or two, did not know whether he was on his head or his heels, or whether the sun rose
in the east or the south, or where he stood, or whither he was going.

In fact, the youthful pair very soon came into that dream-land where are no more any points
of the compass, no more division of time, no more latitude and longitude, no more up and down,
but only a general wandering among enchanted groves and singing nightingales.

It was entirely owing to old Elsie's watchful shrewdness and address that the lovers came into
this paradise by the gate of marriage; for the young man was ready to offer anything at the
feet of his divinity, as the old mother was not slow to perceive.

So they stood at the altar, for the time being a pair of as true lovers as Romeo and Juliet:
but then, what has true love to do with the son of a hundred generations and heir to a Roman
principality?

Of course, the rose of love, having gone through all its stages of bud and blossom into full
flower, must next begin to drop its leaves. Of course. Who ever heard of an immortal rose?

The time of discovery came. Isella was found to be a mother; and then the storm burst upon
her and drabbled her in the dust as fearlessly as the summer-wind sweeps down and besmirches
the lily it has all summer been wooing and flattering.

The Duchess was a very pious and moral lady, and of course threw her favorite out into the
street as a vile weed, and virtuously ground her down under her jewelled high-heeled shoes.

She could have forgiven her any common frailty;--of course it was natural that the girl should
have been seduced by the all-conquering charms of her son;--but aspire to marriage with their
house!--pretend to be her son's wife! Since the time of Judas had such treachery ever been
heard of?

Something was said of the propriety of walling up the culprit alive,--a mode of disposing of
small family-matters somewhat à la mode in those times. But the Duchess acknowledged herself
foolishly tender, and unable quite to allow this very obvious propriety in the case.

She contented herself with turning mother and daughter into the streets with every mark of
ignominy, which was reduplicated by every one of her servants, lackeys, and court-companions,
who, of course, had always known just how the thing must end.

As to the young Duke, he acted as a well-instructed young nobleman should, who understands
the great difference there is between the tears of a duchess and those of low-born women. No
sooner did he behold his conduct in the light of his mother's countenance than he turned his
back on his low marriage with edifying penitence. He did not think it necessary to convince
his mother of the real existence of a union whose very supposition made her so unhappy, and
occasioned such an uncommonly disagreeable and tempestuous state of things in the well-bred
circle where his birth called him to move. Being, however, a religious youth, he opened his
mind to his family-confessor, by whose advice he sent a messenger with a large sum of money
to Elsie, piously commending her and her daughter to the Divine protection. He also gave orders
for an entire new suit of raiment for the Virgin Mary in the family-chapel, including a splendid
set of diamonds, and promised unlimited candles to the altar of a neighboring convent. If all
this could not atone for a youthful error, it was a pity. So he thought, as he drew on his
riding-gloves and went off on a hunting-party, like a gallant and religious young nobleman.

Elsie, meanwhile, with her forlorn and disgraced daughter, found a temporary asylum in a neighboring
mountain-village, where the poor, bedrabbled, broken-winged song-bird soon panted and fluttered
her little life away.

When the once beautiful and gay Isella had been hidden in the grave, cold and lonely, there
remained a little wailing infant, which Elsie gathered to her bosom.

Grim, dauntless, and resolute, she resolved, for the sake of this hapless one, to look life
in the face once more, and try the battle under other skies.

Taking the infant in her arms, she travelled with her far from the scene of her birth, and
set all her energies at work to make for her a better destiny than that which had fallen to
the lot of her unfortunate mother.

