In 1903 James Hopper returned to the United States, and for a time was on the editorial staff
of McClure's. Later in collaboration with Fred R. Bechdolt he wrote a remarkable book, entitled
"9009". This is the number of a convict in an American prison, and the book exposes the system
of spying, of treachery, of betrayal, that a convict must identify himself with in order to
become a "trusty." His next book was a college story, The Freshman. This was followed by a
volume of short stories, What Happened in the Night. These are stories of child life, but intended
for older readers; they are very successful in reproducing the imaginative world in which children
live. In 1915 and 1916 he acted as a war correspondent for Collier's, first with the American
troops in Mexico in pursuit of Villa, and later in France. His home is at Carmel, California.

THEY WHO BRING DREAMS TO AMERICA

"No wonder this America of ours is big. "The Citizen" is a story of a brave man who followed
his dream over land and sea, until it brought him to America, a fortunate event for him and for us.

THE CITIZEN

BY

JAMES FRANCIS DWYER

The President of the United States was speaking. His audience comprised two thousand foreign-born
men who had just been admitted to citizenship. They listened intently, their faces, aglow with
the light of a new-born patriotism, upturned to the calm, intellectual face of the first citizen
of the country they now claimed as their own.

Here and there among the newly-made citizens were wives and children. The women were proud
of their men. They looked at them from time to time, their faces showing pride and awe.

One little woman, sitting immediately in front of the President, held the hand of a big, muscular
man and stroked it softly. The big man was looking at the speaker with great blue eyes that
were the eyes of a dreamer. You dreamed dreams of this country, and I hope you brought the
dreams with you. A man enriches the country to which he brings dreams, and you who have brought
them have enriched America.

The big man made a curious choking noise and his wife breathed a soft "Hush!" The giant was
strangely affected. Each of you, I am sure, brought a dream, a glorious, shining dream, a dream
worth more than gold or silver, and that is the reason that I, for one, make you welcome.

The big man's eyes were fixed. His wife shook him gently, but he did not heed her. He was looking
through the presidential rostrum, through the big buildings behind it, looking out over leagues
of space to a snow-swept village that huddled on an island in the Beresina, the swift-flowing
tributary of the mighty Dnieper, an island that looked like a black bone stuck tight in the
maw of the stream.

It was in the little village on the Beresina that the Dream came to Ivan Berloff, Big Ivan
of the Bridge.

The Dream came in the spring. All great dreams come in the spring, and the Spring Maiden who
brought Big Ivan's Dream was more than ordinarily beautiful. She swept up the Beresina, trailing
wondrous draperies of vivid green. Her feet touched the snow-hardened ground, and armies of
little white and blue flowers sprang up in her footsteps. Soft breezes escorted her, velvety
breezes that carried the aromas of the far-off places from which they came, places far to the
southward, and more distant towns beyond the Black Sea whose people were not under the sway
of the Great Czar.

The father of Big Ivan, who had fought under Prince Menshikov at Alma fifty-five years before,
hobbled out to see the sunbeams eat up the snow hummocks that hid in the shady places, and
he told his son it was the most wonderful spring he had ever seen.

