Mrs. Woodward did write him a very kind letter, and it did comfort him. And she wrote also,
as she was bound to do, a letter of congratulation to Alaric. This letter, though it expressed
in the usual terms the satisfaction which one friend has in another's welfare, was not written
in the same warm affectionate tone as that to Norman. Alaric perceived instantly that it was
not cordial. He loved Mrs. Woodward dearly, and greatly desired her love and sympathy. But
what then? He could not have everything. He determined, therefore, not to trouble his mind.
If Mrs. Woodward did not sympathize with him, others of the family would do so; and success
would ultimately bring her round. What woman ever yet refused to sympathize with successful
ambition?

Alaric also received a letter from Captain Cuttwater, in which that gallant veteran expressed
his great joy at the result of the examination--'Let the best man win all the world over,'
said he, 'whatever his name is. And they'll have to make the same rule at the Admiralty too.
The days of the Howards are gone by; that is, unless they can prove themselves able seamen,
which very few of them ever did yet. Let the best man win; that's what I say; and let every
man get his fair share of promotion.' Alaric did not despise the sympathy of Captain Cuttwater.
It might turn out that even Captain Cuttwater could be made of use.

Mrs. Woodward's letter to Harry was full of the tenderest affection. It was a flattering, soothing,
loving letter, such as no man ever could have written. It was like oil poured into his wounds,
and made him feel that the world was not all harsh to him. He had determined not to go to Hampton
that Saturday; but Mrs. Woodward's letter almost made him rush there at once that he might
throw himself into her arms--into her arms, and at her daughter's feet. The time had now come
to him when he wanted to be comforted by the knowledge that his love was returned. He resolved
that during his next visit he would formally propose to Gertrude.

The determination to do this, and a strong hope that he might do it successfully, kept him
up during the interval. On the following week he was to go to his father's place to shoot,
having obtained leave of absence for a month; and he felt that he could still enjoy himself
if he could take with him the conviction that all was right at Surbiton Cottage. Mrs. Woodward,
in her letter, though she had spoken much of the girls, had said nothing special about Gertrude.
Nevertheless, Norman gathered from it that she intended that he should go thither to look for
comfort, and that he would find there the comfort that he required.

And Mrs. Woodward had intended that such should be the effect of her letter. It was at present
the dearest wish of her heart to see Norman and Gertrude married. That Norman had often declared
his love to her eldest daughter she knew very well, and she knew also that Gertrude had never
rejected him. Having perfect confidence in her child, she had purposely abstained from saying
anything that could bias her opinion. She had determined to leave the matter in the hands of
the young people themselves, judging that it might be best arranged as a true love-match between
them, without interference from her; she had therefore said nothing to Gertrude on the subject.

Mrs. Woodward, however, discovered that she was in error, when it was too late for her to retrieve
her mistake; and, indeed, had she discovered it before that letter was written, what could
she have done? She could not have forbidden Harry to come to her house--she could not have
warned him not to throw himself at her daughter's feet. The cup was prepared for his lips,
and it was necessary that he should drink of it. There was nothing for which she could blame
him; nothing for which she could blame herself; nothing for which she did blame her daughter.
It was sorrowful, pitiful, to be lamented, wept for, aye, and groaned for; many inward groans
it cost her; but it was at any rate well that she could attribute her sorrow to the spite of
circumstances rather than to the ill-conduct of those she loved.

Nor would it have been fair to blame Gertrude in the matter. While she was yet a child, this
friend of her mother's had been thrown with her, and when she was little more than a child,
she found that this friend had become a lover. She liked him, in one sense loved him, and was
accustomed to regard him as one whom it would be almost wrong in her not to like and love.
What wonder then that when he first spoke to her warm words of adoration, she had not been
able at once to know her own heart, and tell him that his hopes would be in vain?

She perceived by instinct, rather than by spoken words, that her mother was favourable to this
young lover, that if she accepted him she would please her mother, that the course of true
love might in their case run smooth. What wonder then that she should have hesitated before
she found it necessary to say that she could not, would not, be Harry Norman's wife?

On the Saturday morning, the morning of that night which was, as he hoped, to see him go to
bed a happy lover, so happy in his love as to be able to forget his other sorrows, she was
sitting alone with her mother. It was natural that their conversation should turn to Alaric
and Harry. Alaric, with his happy prospects, was soon dismissed; but Mrs. Woodward continued
to sing the praises of him who, had she been potent with the magi of the Civil Service, would
now be the lion of the Weights and Measures.

'I must say I think it was weak of him to retire,' said Gertrude. 'Alaric says in his letter
to Uncle Bat, that had he persevered he would in all probability have been successful.'

'I should rather say that it was generous,' said her mother.

'Well, I don't know, mamma; that of course depends on his motives; but wouldn't generosity
of that sort between two young men in such a position be absurd?'

'You mean that such regard for his friend would be Quixotic.'

'Yes, mamma.'

'Perhaps it would. All true generosity, all noble feeling, is now called Quixotic. But surely,
Gertrude, you and I should not quarrel with Harry on that account.'

'I think he got frightened, mamma, and had not nerve to go through with it.'

Mrs. Woodward looked vexed; but she made no immediate reply, and for some time the mother and
daughter went on working without further conversation. At last Gertrude said:--

'I think every man is bound to do the best he can for himself-- that is, honestly; there is
something spoony in one man allowing another to get before him, as long as he can manage to
be first himself.'

Mrs. Woodward did not like the tone in which her daughter spoke. She felt that it boded ill
for Harry's welfare; and she tried, but tried in vain, to elicit from her daughter the expression
of a kinder feeling.

'Well, my dear, I must say I think you are hard on him. But, probably, just at present you
have the spirit of contradiction in you. If I were to begin to abuse him, perhaps I should
get you to praise him.'

'Oh, mamma, I did not abuse him.'

'Something like it, my dear, when you said he was spoony.'

'Oh, mamma, I would not abuse him for worlds--I know how good he is, I know how you love him,
but, but---' and Gertrude, though very little given to sobbing moods, burst into tears.

'Come here, Gertrude; come here, my child,' said Mrs. Woodward, now moved more for her daughter
than for her favourite; 'what is it? what makes you cry? I did not really mean that you abused
poor Harry.'

Gertrude got up from her chair, knelt at her mother's feet, and hid her face in her mother's
lap. 'Oh, mamma,' she said, with a half-smothered voice, 'I know what you mean; I know what
you wish; but--but--but, oh, mamma, you must not--must not, must not think of it any more.'

'Then may God help him!' said Mrs. Woodward, gently caressing her daughter, who was still sobbing
with her face buried in her mother's lap. 'May God Almighty lighten the blow to him! But oh,
Gertrude, I had hoped, I had so hoped----'

'Oh, mamma, don't, pray don't,' and Gertrude sobbed as though she were going into hysterics.

'No, my child, I will not say another word. Dear as he is to me, you are and must be ten times
dearer. There, Gertrude, it is over now; over at least between us. We know each other's hearts
now. It is my fault that we did not do so sooner.' They did understand each other at last,
and the mother made no further attempt to engage her daughter's love for the man she would
have chosen as her daughter's husband.

But still the worst was to come, as Mrs. Woodward well knew--and as Gertrude knew also; to
come, too, on this very day. Mrs. Woodward, with a woman's keen perception, felt assured that
Harry Norman, when he found himself at the Cottage, freed from the presence of the successful
candidate, surrounded by the affectionate faces of all her circle, would melt at once and look
to his love for consolation. She understood the feelings of his heart as well as though she
had read them in a book; and yet she could do nothing to save him from his fresh sorrows. The
cup was prepared for him, and it was necessary that he should drink it. She could not tell
him, could not tell even him, that her daughter had rejected him, when as yet he had made no offer.

And so Harry Norman hurried down to his fate. When he reached the Cottage, Mrs. Woodward and
Linda and Katie were in the drawing- room.

'Harry, my dear Harry,' said Mrs. Woodward, rushing to him, throwing her arms round him, and
kissing him; 'we know it all, we understand it all--my fine, dear, good Harry.'

Harry was melted in a moment, and in the softness of his mood kissed Katie too, and Linda also.
Katie he had often kissed, but never Linda, cousins though they were. Linda merely laughed,
but Norman blushed; for he remembered that had it so chanced that Gertrude had been there,
he would not have dared to kiss her.

'Oh, Harry,' said Katie, 'we are so sorry--that is, not sorry about Alaric, but sorry about
you. Why were there not two prizes?'

'It's all right as it is, Katie,' said he; 'we need none of us be sorry at all. Alaric is a
clever fellow; everybody gave him credit for it before, and now he has proved that everybody
is right.'

'He is older than you, you know, and therefore he ought to be cleverer,' said Katie, trying
to make things pleasant.

And then they went out into the garden. But where was Gertrude all this time? She had been
in the drawing-room a moment before his arrival. They walked out into the lawn, but nothing
was said about her absence. Norman could not bring himself to ask for her, and Mrs. Woodward
could not trust herself to talk of her.

'Where is the captain?' said Harry.

'He's at Hampton Court,' said Linda; 'he has found another navy captain there, and he goes
over every day to play backgammon.' As they were speaking, however, the captain walked through
the house on to the lawn.

'Well, Norman, how are you, how are you? sorry you couldn't all win. But you're a man of fortune,
you know, so it doesn't signify.'

'Not a great deal of fortune,' said Harry, looking sheepish.

'Well, I only hope the best man got it. Now, at the Admiralty the worst man gets it always.'

'The worst man didn't get it here,' said Harry.

'No, no,' said Uncle Bat, 'I'm sure he did not; nor he won't long at the Admiralty either,
I can tell them that. But where's Gertrude?'

'She's in her bedroom, dressing for dinner,' said Katie.

'Hoity toity,' said Uncle Bat, 'she's going to make herself very grand to-day. That's all for
you, Master Norman. Well, I suppose we may all go in and get ready; but mind, I have got no
sweetheart, and so I shan't make myself grand at all;' and so they all went in to dress for dinner.

When Norman came down, Gertrude was in the drawing-room alone. But he knew that they would
be alone but for a minute, and that a minute would not serve for his purpose. She said one
soft gentle word of condolence to him, some little sentence that she had been studying to pronounce.
All her study was thrown away; for Norman, in his confusion, did not understand a word that
she spoke. Her tone, however, was kind and affectionate; and she shook hands with him apparently
with cordiality. He, however, ventured no kiss with her. He did not even press her hand, when
for a moment he held it within his own.

Dinner was soon over, and the autumn evening still admitted of their going out. Norman was
not sorry to urge the fact that the ladies had done so, as an excuse to Captain Cuttwater for
not sitting with him over his wine. He heard their voices in the garden, and went out to join
them, prepared to ascertain his fate if fortune would give him an opportunity of doing so.
He found the party to consist of Mrs. Woodward, Linda, and Katie; Gertrude was not there.

'I think the evenings get warmer as the winter gets nearer,' said Harry.

'Yes,' said Mrs. Woodward, 'but they are so dangerous. The night comes on all at once, and
then the air is so damp and cold.'

And so they went on talking about the weather.

'Your boat is up in London, I know, Harry,' said Katie, with a voice of reproach, but at the
same time with a look of entreaty.

'Yes, it's at Searle's,' said Norman.

'But the punt is here,' said Katie.

'Not this evening, Katie,' said he.

'Katie, how can you be such a tease?' said Mrs. Woodward; 'you'll make Harry hate the island,
and you too. I wonder you can be so selfish.'

Poor Katie's eyes became suffused with tears.

'My dear Katie, it's very bad of me, isn't it?' said Norman, 'and the fine weather so nearly
over too; I ought to take you, oughtn't I? come, we will go.'

'No, we won't,' said Katie, taking his big hand in both her little ones, 'indeed we won't.
It was very wrong of me to bother you; and you with--with--with so much to think of. Dear Harry,
I don't want to go at all, indeed I don't,' and she turned away from the little path which
led to the place where the punt was moored.

They sauntered on for a while together, and then Norman left them. He said nothing, but merely
stole away from the lawn towards the drawing-room window. Mrs. Woodward well knew with what
object he went, and would have spared him from his immediate sorrow by following him; but she
judged that it would be better both for him and for her daughter that he should learn the truth.

He went in through the open drawing-room window, and found Gertrude alone. She was on the sofa
with a book in her hand; and had he been able to watch her closely he would have seen that
the book trembled as he entered the room. But he was unable to watch anything closely. His
own heart beat so fast, his own confusion was so great, that he could hardly see the girl whom
he now hoped to gain as his wife. Had Alaric been coming to his wooing, he would have had every
faculty at his call. But then Alaric could not have loved as Norman loved.

And so we will leave them. In about half an hour, when the short twilight was becoming dusk,
Mrs. Woodward returned, and found Norman standing alone on the hearthrug before the fireplace.
Gertrude was away, and he was leaning against the mantelpiece, with his hands behind his back,
staring at vacancy; but oh! with such an aspect of dull, speechless agony in his face.

Mrs. Woodward looked up at him, and would have burst into tears, had she not remembered that
they would not be long alone; she therefore restrained herself, but gave one involuntary sigh;
and then, taking off her bonnet, placed herself where she might sit without staring at him
in his sorrow.

Katie came in next. 'Oh! Harry, it's so lucky we didn't start in the punt,' said she, 'for
it's going to pour, and we never should have been back from the island in that slow thing.'

Norman looked at her and tried to smile, but the attempt was a ghastly failure. Katie, gazing
up into his face, saw that he was unhappy, and slunk away, without further speech, to her distant
chair. There, from time to time, she would look up at him, and her little heart melted with
ruth to see the depth of his misery. 'Why, oh why,' thought she, 'should that greedy Alaric
have taken away the only prize?'

And then Linda came running in with her bonnet ribbons all moist with the big raindrops. 'You
are a nice squire of dames,' said she, 'to leave us all out to get wet through by ourselves;'
and then she also, looking up, saw that jesting was at present ill- timed, and so sat herself
down quietly at the tea-table.

But Norman never moved. He saw them come in one after another. He saw the pity expressed in
Mrs. Woodward's face; he heard the light-hearted voices of the two girls, and observed how,
when they saw him, their light-heartedness was abashed; but still he neither spoke nor moved.
He had been stricken with a fearful stroke, and for a while was powerless.

Captain Cuttwater, having shaken off his dining-room nap, came for his tea; and then, at last,
Gertrude also, descending from her own chamber, glided quietly into the room. When she did
so, Norman, with a struggle, roused himself, and took a chair next to Mrs. Woodward, and opposite
to her eldest daughter.

Who could describe the intense discomfiture of that tea-party, or paint in fitting colours
the different misery of each one there assembled? Even Captain Cuttwater at once knew that
something was wrong, and munched his bread-and-butter and drank his tea in silence. Linda surmised
what had taken place; though she was surprised, she was left without any doubt. Poor Katie
was still in the dark, but she also knew that there was cause for sorrow, and crept more and
more into her little self. Mrs. Woodward sat with averted face, and ever and anon she put her
handkerchief to her eyes. Gertrude was very pale, and all but motionless, but she had schooled
herself, and managed to drink her tea with more apparent indifference than any of the others.
Norman sat as he had before been standing, with that dreadful look of agony upon his brow.

Immediately after tea Mrs. Woodward got up and went to her dressing-room. Her dressing-room,
though perhaps not improperly so called, was not an exclusive closet devoted to combs, petticoats,
and soap and water. It was a comfortable snug room, nicely furnished, with sofa and easy chairs,
and often open to others besides her handmaidens. Thither she betook herself, that she might
weep unseen; but in about twenty minutes her tears were disturbed by a gentle knock at the door.

Very soon after she went, Gertrude also left the room, and then Katie crept off.

'I have got a headache to-night,' said Norman, after the remaining three had sat silent for
a minute or two; 'I think I'll go across and go to bed.'

'A headache!' said Linda. 'Oh, I am so sorry that you have got to go to that horrid inn.'

'Oh! I shall do very well there,' said Norman, trying to smile.

'Will you have my room?' said the captain good-naturedly; 'any sofa does for me.'

Norman assured them as well as he could that his present headache was of such a nature that
a bed at the inn would be the best thing for him; and then, shaking hands with them, he moved
to the door.

'Stop a moment, Harry,' said Linda, 'and let me tell mamma. She'll give you something for your
head.' He made a sign to her, however, to let him pass, and then, creeping gently upstairs,
he knocked at Mrs. Woodward's door.

'Come in,' said Mrs. Woodward, and Harry Norman, with all his sorrows still written on his
face, stood before her.

'Oh! Harry,' said she, 'come in; I am so glad that you have come to me. Oh! Harry, dear Harry,
what shall I say to comfort you? What can I say--what can I do?'

Norman, forgetting his manhood, burst into tears, and throwing himself on a sofa, buried his
face on the arm and sobbed like a young girl. But the tears of a man bring with them no comfort
as do those of the softer sex. He was a strong tall man, and it was dreadful to see him thus
convulsed.

Mrs. Woodward stood by him, and put her hand caressingly on his shoulder. She saw he had striven
to speak, and had found himself unable to do so. 'I know how it is,' said she, 'you need not
tell me; I know it all. Would that she could have seen you with my eyes; would that she could
have judged you with my mind!'

'Oh, Mrs. Woodward!'

'To me, Harry, you should have been the dearest, the most welcome son. But you are so still.
No son could be dearer. Oh, that she could have seen you as I see you!'

'There is no hope,' said he. He did not put it as a question; but Mrs. Woodward saw that it
was intended that she should take it as such if she pleased. What could she say to him? She
knew that there was no hope. Had it been Linda, Linda might have been moulded to her will.
But with Gertrude there could now be no hope. What could she say? She knelt down and kissed
his brow, and mingled her tears with his.

'Oh, Harry--oh, Harry! my dearest, dearest son!'

'Oh, Mrs. Woodward, I have loved her so truly.'

What could Mrs. Woodward do but cry also? what but that, and throw such blame as she could
upon her own shoulders? She was bound to defend her daughter.

'It has been my fault, Harry,' she said; 'it is I whom you must blame, not poor Gertrude.'

'I blame no one,' said he.

'I know you do not; but it is I whom you should blame. I should have learnt how her heart stood,
and have prevented this--but I thought, I thought it would have been otherwise.'

Norman looked up at her, and took her hand, and pressed it. 'I will go now,' he said, 'and
don't expect me here to-morrow. I could not come in. Say that I thought it best to go to town
because I am unwell. Good-bye, Mrs. Woodward; pray write to me. I can't come to the Cottage
now for a while, but pray write to me: do not you forget me, Mrs. Woodward.'

Mrs. Woodward fell upon his breast and wept, and bade God bless him, and called him her son
and her dearest friend, and sobbed till her heart was nigh to break. 'What,' she thought, 'what
could her daughter wish for, when she repulsed from her feet such a suitor as Harry Norman?'

He then went quietly down the stairs, quietly out of the house, and having packed up his bag
at the inn, started off through the pouring rain, and walked away through the dark stormy night,
through the dirt and mud and wet, to his London lodgings; nor was he again seen at Surbiton
Cottage for some months after this adventure.

CHAPTER XIII

A COMMUNICATION OF IMPORTANCE

Norman's dark wet walk did him physically no harm, and morally some good. He started on it
in that frame of mind which induces a man to look with indifference on all coming evils under
the impression that the evils already come are too heavy to admit of any increase. But by the
time that he was thoroughly wet through, well splashed with mud, and considerably fatigued
by his first five or six miles' walk, he began to reflect that life was not over with him,
and that he must think of future things as well as those that were past.

He got home about two o'clock, and having knocked up his landlady, Mrs. Richards, betook himself
to bed. Alaric had been in his room for the last two hours, but of Charley and his latch- key
Mrs. Richards knew nothing. She stated her belief, however, that two a.m. seldom saw that erratic
gentleman in his bed.

On the following morning, Alaric, when he got his hot water, heard that Norman returned during
the night from Hampton, and he immediately guessed what had brought him back. He knew that
nothing short of some great trouble would have induced Harry to leave the Cottage so abruptly,
and that that trouble must have been of such a nature as to make his remaining with the Woodwards
an aggravation of it. No such trouble could have come on him but the one.

As Charley seldom made his appearance at the breakfast table on Sunday mornings, Alaric foresaw
that he must undergo a tete-a- tete which would not be agreeable to himself, and which must
be much more disagreeable to his companion; but for this there was no help. Harry had, however,
prepared himself for what he had to go through, and immediately that the two were alone, he
told his tale in a very few words.

'Alaric,' said he, 'I proposed to Gertrude last night, and she refused me.'

Alaric Tudor was deeply grieved for his friend. There was something in the rejected suitor's
countenance--something in the tone of voice, which would have touched any heart softer than
stone; and Alaric's heart had not as yet been so hardened by the world as to render him callous
to the sight of such grief as this.

'Take my word for it, Harry, she'll think better of it in a month or two,' he said.

'Never-never; I am sure of it. Not only from her own manner, but from her mother's,' said Harry.
And yet, during half his walk home, he had been trying to console himself with the reflection
that most young ladies reject their husbands once or twice before they accept them.

There is no offering a man comfort in such a sorrow as this; unless, indeed, he be one to whom
the worship of Bacchus may be made a fitting substitute for that of the Paphian goddess.

There is a sort of disgrace often felt, if never acknowledged, which attaches itself to a man
for having put himself into Norman's present position, and this generally prevents him from
confessing his defeat in such matters. The misfortune in question is one which doubtless occurs
not unfrequently to mankind; but as mankind generally bear their special disappointments in
silence, and as the vanity of women is generally exceeded by their good- nature, the secret,
we believe, in most cases remains a secret.

  Shall I, wasting in despair,
  Die because a woman's fair?
  If she be not fair for me,
  What care I how fair she be?

This was the upshot of the consideration which Withers, the poet, gave to the matter, and Withers
was doubtless right. 'Tis thus that rejected lovers should think, thus that they should demean
themselves; but they seldom come to this philosophy till a few days have passed by, and talking
of their grievance does not assist them in doing so.

When, therefore, Harry had declared what had happened to him, and had declared also that he
had no further hope, he did not at first find himself much the better for what he had confessed.
He was lackadaisical and piteous, and Alaric, though he had endeavoured to be friendly, soon
found that he had no power of imparting any comfort. Early in the day they parted, and did
not see each other again till the following morning.

'I was going down to Normansgrove on Thursday,' said Harry.

'Yes, I know,' said Alaric.

'I think I shall ask leave to go to-day. It can't make much difference, and the sooner I get
away the better.'

And so it was settled. Norman left town the same afternoon, and Alaric, with his blushing honours
thick upon him, was left alone.

London was now very empty, and he was constrained to enjoy his glory very much by himself.
He had never associated much with the Minusexes and Uppinalls, nor yet with the Joneses and
Robinsons of his own office, and it could not be expected that there should be any specially
confidential intercourse between them just at the present moment. Undy was of course out of
town with the rest of the fashionable world, and Alaric, during the next week, was left very
much on his own hands.

'And so,' said he to himself, as he walked solitary along the lone paths of Rotten Row, and
across the huge desert to the Marble Arch, 'and so poor Harry's hopes have been all in vain;
he has lost his promotion, and now he has lost his bride--poor Harry!'--and then it occurred
to him that as he had acquired the promotion it might be his destiny to win the bride also.
He had never told himself that he loved Gertrude; he had looked on her as Norman's own, and
he, at any rate, was not the man to sigh in despair after anything that was out of his reach.
But now, now that Harry's chance was over, and that no bond of friendship could interfere with
such a passion, why should he not tell himself that he loved Gertrude? 'If, as Harry had himself
said, there was no longer any hope for him, why,' said Alaric to himself, 'why should not I
try my chance?' Of Linda, of 'dear, dearest Linda,' at this moment he thought very little,
or, perhaps, not at all. Of what Mrs. Woodward might say, of that he did think a good deal.

The week was melancholy and dull, and it passed very slowly at Hampton. On the Sunday morning
it became known to them all that Norman was gone, but the subject, by tacit consent, was allowed
to pass all but unnoticed. Even Katie, even Uncle Bat, were aware that something had occurred
which ought to prevent them from inquiring too particularly why Harry had started back to town
in so sudden a manner; and so they said nothing. To Linda, Gertrude had told what had happened;
and Linda, as she heard it, asked herself whether she was prepared to be equally obdurate with
her lover. He had now the means of supporting a wife, and why should she be obdurate?

Nothing was said on the subject between Gertrude and her mother. What more could Mrs. Woodward
say? It would have been totally opposed to the whole principle of her life to endeavour, by
any means, to persuade her daughter to the match, or to have used her maternal influence in
Norman's favour. And she was well aware that it would have been impossible to do so successfully.
Gertrude was not a girl to be talked into a marriage by any parent, and certainly not by such
a parent as her mother. There was, therefore, nothing further to be said about it.

On. Saturday Alaric went down, but his arrival hardly made things more pleasant. Mrs. Woodward
could not bring herself to be cordial with him, and the girls were restrained by a certain
feeling that it would not be right to show too much outward joy at Alaric's success. Linda
said one little word of affectionate encouragement, but it produced no apparent return from
Alaric. His immediate object was to recover Mrs. Woodward's good graces; and he thought before
he went that he had reason to hope that he might do so.

Of all the household, Captain Cuttwater was the most emphatic in his congratulations. 'He had
no doubt,' he said, 'that the best man had won. He had always hoped that the best man might
win. He had not had the same luck when he was young, but he was very glad to see such an excellent
rule brought into the service. It would soon work great changes, he was quite sure, at the
Board of Admiralty.'

On the Sunday afternoon Captain Cuttwater asked him into his own bedroom, and told him with
a solemn, serious manner that he had a communication of importance to make to him. Alaric followed
the captain into the well-known room in which Norman used to sleep, wondering what could be
the nature of Uncle Bat's important communication. It might, probably, be some tidings of Sir
Jib Boom.

'Mr. Alaric,' said the old man, as soon as they were both seated on opposite sides of a little
Pembroke table that stood in the middle of the room, 'I was heartily glad to hear of your success
at the Weights and Measures; not that I ever doubted it if they made a fair sailing match of it.'

'I am sure I am much obliged to you, Captain Cuttwater.'

'That is as may be, by and by. But the fact is, I have taken a fancy to you. I like fellows
that know how to push themselves.'

Alaric had nothing for it but to repeat again that he felt himself grateful for Captain Cuttwater's
good opinion.

'Not that I have anything to say against Mr. Norman--a very nice young man, indeed, he is,
very nice, though perhaps not quite so cheerful in his manners as he might be.'

Alaric began to take his friend's part, and declared what a very worthy fellow Harry was.

'I am sure of it--I am sure of it,' said Uncle Bat; 'but everybody can't be A1; and a man can't
make everybody his heir.'

Alaric pricked up his ears. So after all Captain Cuttwater was right in calling his communication
important. But what business had Captain Cuttwater to talk of making new heirs?--had he not
declared that the Woodwards were his heirs?

'I have got a little money, Mr. Alaric,' he went on saying in a low modest tone, very different
from that he ordinarily used; 'I have got a little money--not much--and it will of course go
to my niece here.'

'Of course,' said Alaric.

'That is to say--it will go to her children, which is all the same thing.'

'Quite the same thing,' said Alaric.

'But my idea is this: if a man has saved a few pounds himself, I think he has a right to give
it to those he loves best. Now I have no children of my own.'

Alaric declared himself aware of the fact.

'And I suppose I shan't have any now.'

'Not if you don't marry,' said Alaric, who felt rather at a loss for a proper answer. He could
not, however, have made a better one.

'No; that's what I mean; but I don't think I shall marry. I am very well contented here, and
I like Surbiton Cottage amazingly.'

'It's a charming place,' said Alaric.

'No, I don't suppose I shall ever have any children of my own,'-- and then Uncle Bat sighed
gently--'and so I have been considering whom I should like to adopt.'

'Quite right, Captain Cuttwater.'

'Whom I should like to adopt. I should like to have one whom I could call in a special manner
my own. Now, Mr. Alaric, I have made up my mind, and who do you think it is?'

'Oh! Captain Cuttwater, I couldn't guess on such a matter. I shouldn't like to guess wrong.'

'Perhaps not--no; that's right;--well then, I'll tell you; it's Gertrude.'

Alaric was well aware that it was Gertrude before her name had been pronounced.

'Yes, it's Gertrude; of course I couldn't go out of Bessie's family--of course it must be either
Gertrude, or Linda, or Katie. Now Linda and Katie are very well, but they haven't half the
gumption that Gertrude has.'

'No, they have not,' said Alaric.

'I like gumption,' said Captain Cuttwater. 'You've a great deal of gumption--that's why I like
you.'

Alaric laughed, and muttered something.

'Now I have been thinking of something;' and Uncle Bat looked strangely mysterious--'I wonder
what you think of Gertrude?'

'Who--I?' said Alaric.

'I can see through a millstone as well as another,' said the captain; 'and I used to think
that Norman and Gertrude meant to hit it off together.'

Alaric said nothing. He did not feel inclined to tell Norman's secret, and yet he could not
belie Gertrude by contradicting the justice of Captain Cuttwater's opinion.

'I used to think so--but now I find there's nothing in it. I am sure Gertrude wouldn't have
him, and I think she's right. He hasn't gumption enough.'

'Harry Norman is no fool.'

'I dare say not,' said the captain; 'but take my word, she'll never have him--Lord bless you,
Norman knows that as well as I do.'

Alaric knew it very well himself also; but he did not say so.

