    1753 P. strobus Linnaeus, Sp. Pl. 1001.
    1855 P. nivea Booth ex Carrière, Trait. Conif. 305.
    1862 P. alba-canadensis Provancher, Fl. Canad. ii. 554.
    1903 Strobus strobus Small, Fl. Southeast. U. S. 29.

Spring-shoots pubescent. Cones from 8 to 24 cm. long, narrow cylindrical, sometimes curved;
apophyses fulvous brown, or rufous brown, thin, the smooth or slightly rugose surface conforming
to the general surface of the cone; seed with a long wing.

  A valuable timber-tree of singular beauty and rapid growth. The
  northern limit of its range extends from Newfoundland to Manitoba; it
  grows throughout the northern states from Minnesota to the Atlantic,
  and, south of Pennsylvania, along the Appalachians to northern
  Georgia. Its tractable and reliable wood, its adaptability to various
  soils and climates, its early maturity and stately habit, recommend it
  to the forester and gardener.

  Mature trees of P. strobus tower above the evergreens associated with
  it. It is also recognized by the color and horizontal massing of its
  foliage. The cone, when closed, is very narrow; its thin flat scales
  distinguish it from the cone of P. peuce, and its phyllotaxis from the
  cone of P. monticola. To illustrate the possibilities of variation in
  the size of Pine cones, I once collected several in Tamworth, N. H.,
  on the estate of Mr. Augustus Hemenway, on the same slope and within
  an area of one square kilometre. These cones varied in length from 6
  to 24 cm., with all intermediate sizes. Also on each tree were cones
  of various lengths, but the longest were confined to two or three
  trees among the several hundred examined. Dimensions of leaves also
  varied with individual trees; not infrequently the leaves of a tree
  were twice the length of those of an adjacent tree. Such variations
  appear in many species and in many localities.

    Plate XII.

    Fig. 119, Two cones. Fig. 120, Leaf-fascicle. Fig. 121, Magnified
    leaf-section. Fig. 122, Conelets. Fig. 123, A cultivated tree in
    Massachusetts.

=Paracembra=

Umbo of the cone-scale dorsal. Scales of the conelet mucronate or aristate. Epiderm and hypoderm
of the leaf similar, appearing as a single tissue; resin-ducts external. Pits of the ray-cells
small.

  The wood of this subsection differs from that of other species, except
  that of P. pinea, in the Picea-like characters of the medullary
  rays--tracheids with smooth walls combined with the thick walls and
  small pits of the ray-cells. On the character of the seeds the species
  may be divided into three groups.

    Seeds wingless                                    IV. Cembroides.
    Seeds with a short, ineffective, articulate wing   V. Gerardianae.
    Seeds with a long and effective wing              VI. Balfourianae.

=IV. CEMBROIDES=

Seeds wingless, the nut large, wholly or partly bare of membranous cover. Cones varying from
yellow-ochre to deep red-orange in color.

  These are the Nut Pines, growing on the arid slopes and table-lands
  above the great plateau of northern Mexico and its extension into the
  southwestern United States. There are three distinct species.

    Leaves entire, the sheath deciduous.
      Cones subglobose, subsessile                  13. cembroides.
      Cones cylindrical, pedunculate                14. Pinceana.
    Leaves serrulate, the sheath persistent         15. Nelsonii.

13. PINUS CEMBROIDES

    1832 P. cembroides Zuccarini in Abh. Akad. Münch. i. 392.
    1838 P. Llaveana Schiede in Linnaea, xii. 488.
    1845 P. monophylla Torrey in Frémont's Rep. 319, t. 4.
    1847 P. Fremontiana Endlicher, Syn. Conif. 183.
    1848 P. edulis Engelmann in Wislizenus, Tour. Mex. 88.
    1848 P. osteosperma Engelmann in Wislizenus, Tour. Mex. 89.
    1862 P. Parryana Engelmann in Am. Jour. Sci. ser. 2, xxxiv. 332
              (not Gordon).
    1897 P. quadrifolia Sudworth, Bull. 14, U. S. Dep. Agric. 17.
    1903 Caryopitys edulus Small, Fl. Southeast. U. S. 29.

Spring-shoots pruinose. Leaves from 2 to 6 cm. long, in fascicles of 1 to 5, the sheath-scales
revolute at the apex, then deciduous; stomata ventral, or ventral and dorsal; resin-ducts external.
Scales of the conelet armed with a minute prickle. Cones from 4 to 6 cm. long, subglobose,
subsessile; apophyses lustrous ochre-yellow, crowned with a quadrilateral umbo bearing the
minute prickle of the conelet; seed flaxen yellow when fresh, its testa bare, the spermoderm
adnate to the cone-scale.

  A broad tree with a round head, similar in size and form, but not in
  ramification, to the cultivated Apple-tree; growing on arid slopes and
  table-lands. Its eastern limit is in southwestern Wyoming, central
  Colorado, Texas, western Tamaulipas and northwestern Vera Cruz. It
  ranges over Utah, Nevada, Arizona and the northern states of Mexico to
  the southern Sierras of California and to the northern and southern
  extremities of Lower California. It is recognized by its small cone,
  which expands, when open, into an irregular flat aggregate of loosely
  attached scales. The leaves are shorter than those of the other Pines
  of this group.

  The cone of this species always retains its peculiar character. The
  variations are mainly in the number of leaves in the fascicle. On this
  character this Nut Pine is divided by many authors into four
  species--cembroides, with three slender leaves--edulis, with two stout
  leaves--monophylla, with one leaf and--Parryana, with four stout
  leaves. But there are intermediate forms that may be either cembroides
  or edulis, edulis or monophylla etc., and Voss's reduction of the four
  to a single species with three varieties seems to be justified (Mitt.
  Deutsch. Dendrol. Ges. xvi. 95).

    Plate XIII.

    Fig. 130, Cone, cone-scale and seed. Fig. 131, Open cone. Fig. 132,
    Branchlet with leaves and magnified leaf-section.

14. PINUS PINCEANA

    1846 P. cembroides Gordon in Jour. Hort. Soc. Lond. i. 236, f.
              (not Zuccarini).
    1858 P. Pinceana Gordon, Pinet. 204.
    1882 P. latisquama Engelmann in Gard. Chron. ser. 2, xviii. 712.
              f. 125 (as to cone only).

Spring-shoots slender, pruinose. Cones from 6 to 9 cm. long, cylindrical, pendent on long peduncles;
apophyses lustrous ochre-yellow, elevated in the centre, the umbo usually retaining the small
prickle; seed large, bearing on its dorsal surface remnants of the spermoderm.

  A small bushy tree with long slender branchlets, clear gray cortex,
  persistently smooth except on the lower part of the trunk, and
  glaucous-green foliage. It grows along water-courses, dry in autumn
  and winter, from southern Coahuila to central Hidalgo, and is
  associated with P. cembroides, from which it may be distinguished by
  its longer leaves and much longer cylindrical cone.

    Plate XIII.

    Fig. 127, Cone, cone-scale and seed. Fig. 128, Branchlet with
    leaves. Fig. 129, Magnified leaf-section.

15. PINUS NELSONII

    1904 P. Nelsonii Shaw in Gard. Chron. ser. 3, xxxvi. 122, f. 49.

Spring-shoots slender, pruinose; branchlets very pliant and tough, summer-shoots abundant.
Leaves with a persistent sheath, from 6 to 9 cm. long, united in threes along a portion of
their ventral surface into pseudomonophyllous fascicles, serrulate on the two margins of the
dorsal surface, entire on the ventral margin; stomata dorsal and with one row along the free
portion of each ventral face. Conelets usually, if not always, pseudolateral by reason of the
summer growth of the branchlets, and attaining in their first season an unusually large size.
Cones from 6 to 12 cm. long, on very long stout and curved peduncles, cylindrical, deciduous
by an articulation between the cone and its peduncle, leaving the latter for several years
on the tree; apophyses dark lustrous orange-red, rugose, elevated along a sharp transverse
keel, the umbo obscurely defined, the mucro usually broken away; nuts large, flaxen yellow,
the spermoderm adnate to the cone-scale.

  A small bushy tree with long pliant branches, clear gray cortex all
  over the limbs and trunk, and sparse gray-green foliage. It grows,
  together with P. cembroides, on the lower slopes of the northeastern
  Sierras of Mexico, near the boundary between the states of Tamaulipas
  and Nuevo Leon. It is apparently confined to a small area near the
  latitude of the city of Victoria, the capital of Tamaulipas, where its
  nuts are often exposed for sale.

  In many characters this species is unique. It can be recognized at
  once by the connate leaves that form the fascicle or by the remarkable
  stout curved peduncle of its cone. Such seeds as I have seen differ
  from those of P. cembroides by a reddish area at one end, but this can
  be seen with fresh seeds only.

    Plate XIII.

    Fig. 124, Cone, cone scale and seed. Fig. 125, Branchlet with
    leaves. Fig. 126, Magnified section of a leaf-fascicle.

=V. GERARDIANAE=

Seeds with a very short ineffective articulate wing. Leaves in fascicles of 3, serrulate, the
sheath deciduous. Bark exfoliating in large scales, leaving parti-colored areas.

  These Asiatic Nut Pines are alike in leaf and cortex as well as in the
  peculiar seed-wing. The last often remains in the cone after the nut
  falls. The mechanical nature of this adhesion is apparent in P.
  Gerardiana, where the wing adheres not to its own, but to the adjacent
  scale. The two species are alike in their leaves but distinct in their
  cones and seeds.

    Cones smaller, the nut short-ovate              16. Bungeana.
    Cones larger, the nut long-cylindrical          17. Gerardiana.

16. PINUS BUNGEANA

    1847 P. Bungeana Zuccarini ex Endlicher, Syn. Conif. 166.

Spring-shoots glabrous, summer-shoots common on fruiting branches of young trees. Conelets
subterminal or often pseudolateral, their scales gradually narrowed into a spine. Cones from
5 to 7 cm. long, short-pedunculate, short-ovate; apophyses dull pale nut-brown, elevated along
a transverse keel, the dark brown umbo forming a spine with a broad base; seeds with a short
loosely attached wing, sometimes remaining in the cone when the short-ovate nut falls.

  A tree cultivated about the temples of China and recently found by
  Wilson growing on the mountains of Hupeh. The earlier parti-colored
  bark changes to chalky white on old trunks, by which the tree is
  recognized from a great distance. The stem of the tree is often
  multiple by the vertical growth of some of the lower branches. It is
  very hardy and is cultivated in Europe and America, although these
  cultivated trees are not yet of sufficient age to show the remarkable
  white trunk.

    Plate XIV.

    Fig. 138, Cone and cone-scale with adhering wing. Fig. 139, Seed and
    wing. Fig. 140, Leaf-fascicle and magnified leaf-section. Fig. 141,
    Parti-colored bark. Fig. 142, Tree with white trunk.

17. PINUS GERARDIANA

    1832 P. Gerardiana Wallich ex Lambert, Gen. Pin. ed. 8vo, ii. t. 79.

Spring-shoots glabrous. Scales of the conelet armed with a short spine. Cones from 9 to 15
cm. long, short-pedunculate, ovoid or oblong; apophyses fulvous brown, very thick, with a prominent
reflexed or erect protuberance culminating in an umbo on which the spine is more or less persistent;
nuts remarkably long, narrow, terete, the shell fragile, the short wing falling with the nut
or adhering to the adjacent scale.

  A tree of the northwestern Himalayas found on the borders of Cashmere
  and Thibet and in Kafiristan and north Afghanistan, and so highly
  prized for its nuts that it is rarely felled for its wood. It grows in
  dry regions and rarely attains a height of 20 metres. Attempts to
  cultivate this species, even in the milder parts of Great Britain,
  have generally failed.

  The apophysis of the cone varies much in prominence (figs. 134, 135),
  but the peculiar seed is invariable and quite unlike that of any other
  Pine. The general color of the trunk at a distance is silver-gray.

    Plate XIV.

    Fig. 133, Cone. Fig. 134, Cone-scale with adhering seed-wing. Fig.
    135, Cone-scale of flatter form. Fig. 136, Seed and wing. Fig. 137,
    Leaf-fascicle and magnified leaf-section.

=VI. BALFOURIANAE=

Seeds with long effective wings. Leaves entire, in fascicles of 5, the sheath deciduous.

  The two species known as Foxtail Pines are alike in their short entire
  falcate leaves, persisting for many years and forming long dense
  foliage-masses. They differ in the armature of their cones and in
  their seed-wings. The presence of both adnate and articulate wings in
  these closely related species suggests that these two forms of wing
  are not fundamentally distinct.

    Cone-scales short-mucronate, the seed-wing adnate   18. Balfouriana.
    Cone-scales long-aristate, the seed-wing articulate 19. aristata.

18. PINUS BALFOURIANA

    1853 P. Balfouriana Balfour in Bot. Exp. Oregon, 1, f.

Spring-shoots somewhat puberulent. Leaves from 2 to 4 cm. long, persistent for many years;
stomata ventral only; resin-ducts external. Scales of the conelet short-mucronate. Cones from
7 to 12 cm. long, tapering to a rounded apex, short-pedunculate; apophyses dark terracotta-brown,
tumid, the umbo bearing a short recumbent prickle; seed with a long adnate wing.

  An alpine species growing often at the timber-limit. It is found in
  two distinct stations in California, on the northern Coast Range and
  on the southern Sierras. It is not often cultivated, but young plants
  may be seen in the Arnold Arboretum and in the Royal Gardens at Kew.

    Plate XV.

    Fig. 147, Cone, seed and enlarged cone-scale. Fig. 148,
    Leaf-fascicle. Fig. 149, Magnified leaf-section. Fig. 150, A branch
    with persistent leaves.

19. PINUS ARISTATA

    1862 P. aristata Engelmann in Am. Jour. Sci. ser. 2, xxxiv. 331.
    1871 P. Balfouriana Watson in King's Rep. v. 331 (not Balfour).

Spring-shoots glabrous or temporarily pubescent. Cones from 4 to 9 cm. long, subcylindrical
or tapering to a rounded apex, short-pedunculate; apophyses terracotta or purple-brown, tumid,
the long bristles of the umbo often partly or wholly broken away; seeds with a long articulate
wing.

  A bushy tree, similar in foliage to the preceding species, growing at
  the timber-limit from Colorado through Utah, central and southern
  Nevada and northern Arizona into southeastern California, but
  separated from the nearest station of P. Balfouriana by an arid
  treeless desert. Engelmann (in Brewer and Watson, Bot. Calif. ii. 125)
  considered it to be a variety of P. Balfouriana.

    Plate XV.

    Fig. 143, Cone. Fig. 144, Seed and enlarged cone-scale. Fig. 145,
    Leaf-fascicle and magnified leaf-section. Fig. 146, Conelet.

DIPLOXYLON

Bases of the bracts subtending leaf-fascicles decurrent. Leaves serrulate; fibro-vascular bundle
double; stomata dorsal and ventral. Cones with a dorsal umbo, the phyllotaxis complex. Wood
hard, with dark resinous bands, the annual rings clearly defined.

  In this section there are a few species combining the essential
  characters of Diploxylon with important characters of Haploxylon. A
  subsection, Parapinaster, is established for these exceptional
  species.

    c. Parapinaster  Species with the fascicle-sheath or seed-wing of
                       Haploxylon.
    d. Pinaster      Sheath persistent, seed-wing articulate, effective.

=Parapinaster=

    Sheath of the leaf-fascicle deciduous          VII.  Leiophyllae.

=VII. LEIOPHYLLAE=

    Sheath of the leaf-fascicles deciduous.
      Leaves short, erect, the fructification triennial  20. leiophylla.
      Leaves long, pendent, the fructification biennial  21. Lumholtzii.

20. PINUS LEIOPHYLLA

    1831 P. leiophylla Schlechtendal and Chamisso in Linnaea, vi. 354.
    1848 P. chihuahuana Engelmann in Wislizenus, Tour. Mex. 103.

Spring-shoots uninodal. Leaves in fascicles of 3, 4 or 5, the sheath deciduous, from 8 to 14
cm. long; resin-ducts medial with an occasional internal duct. Conelets single or verticillate,
their scales mucronate; conelets of the second year only slightly enlarged. Cones maturing
the third year, not exceeding 7 cm. in length, ovate or ovate-conic, subsymmetrical, more or
less reflexed, persistent for several years on some trees, sometimes serotinous; apophyses
lighter or darker brown, often with an olive or fuscous shade, thin or tumid, the umbo double,
the mucro more persistent near the apex of the cone.

  This species grows at subtropical or warm-temperate altitudes in
  Mexico, from Oaxaca through the central and western states to southern
  Arizona and New Mexico. As it approaches the northern part of its
  range the leaves become thicker and more rigid and the number in the
  fascicle is reduced to 3 or 4 (var. chihuahuana, Shaw, Pines Mex. 14).
  Like P. rigida it sprouts freely along the branches and trunk, and
  stumps of felled trees put out shoots in great numbers. The species is
  easily recognized by the deciduous sheath and triennial cone.

    Plate XVI.

    Fig. 151, Branch with fruit of first, second and third years. Fig.
    152, Leaf-fascicles. Fig. 153, Magnified leaf-section of the
    species. Fig. 154, Magnified leaf-section of the variety.

21. PINUS LUMHOLTZII

    1894 P. Lumholtzii Robinson & Fernald in Proc. Am. Acad. xxx. 122.

Spring-shoots uninodal, sometimes multinodal. Leaves in fascicles of 3, the sheath deciduous,
from 20 to 30 cm. long, absolutely pendent; resin-ducts medial and internal. Conelets subterminal,
or lateral and subterminal, mucronate. Cones not exceeding 7 cm. in length, symmetrical, pendent
on slender peduncles, ovate-conic, early deciduous; apophyses sublustrous, nut-brown, tumid
at the margins, flat on the surface, the umbo large, the mucro rarely persistent.

  A remarkable Pine with long pendent bright green foliage, confined to
  the western states of Mexico and ranging on the mountains from
  southern Jalisco to the latitude of the city of Chihuahua. Each
  season's growth of leaves hangs from the branchlet like a long beard,
  from which the tree receives, in some localities, the name "Pino barba
  caida." In the herbarium the long leaves, deciduous sheaths, and the
  decurrent bases of the bracts, present a combination of characters not
  found in other species.

    Plate XVI.

    Fig. 155, Cone. Fig. 156, Cone. Fig. 157, Leaf-fascicle. Fig. 158,
    Magnified leaf-section. Fig. 159, Tree at Ferraria de Tula.

=VIII. LONGIFOLIAE=

Seed-wing adnate to the nut. Leaves long, in fascicles of 3, the sheath persistent.

    Apophysis of the cone prolonged and reflexed       22. longifolia.
    Apophysis of the cone low-pyramidal                23. canariensis.

22. PINUS LONGIFOLIA

    1803 P. longifolia Roxburgh ex Lambert, Gen. Pin. i. 29, t. 21.
    1897 P. Roxburghii Sargent, Silva N. Am. xi. 9.

Spring-shoots uninodal. Leaves in fascicles of 3, the sheath persistent, from 20 to 30 cm.
long; resin-ducts external, the hypoderm often in large masses, some or all of the endoderm
cells with thick outer walls. Cones from 10 to 17 cm. long, short-pedunculate, ovoid-conic;
apophyses lustrous brown-ochre or fuscous brown, elevated into thick, often reflexed, beaks
with obtuse mutic umbos; seeds with large nuts and adnate striated dark gray or fuscous brown
wings.

  Of the three Pines of the Himalayas this species is the most
  important. It grows on the outer slopes and foot-hills from Bhotan to
  Afghanistan. The wood is used for construction and for the manufacture
  of charcoal, the thick soft bark is valuable for tanning, the resin is
  abundant and of commercial importance, and the nuts are gathered for
  food. The tree is not hardy in cool-temperate climates, but has been
  successfully grown in northern Italy.

  It differs from P. canariensis in the usually protuberant apophysis of
  the cone, in the thick outer walls of the leaf-endoderm and in the
  nearly smooth walls of the ray-tracheids of the wood. In the
  dimensions of cone and leaf, in the dermal tissues and resin-ducts of
  the leaf and in the peculiar coloring of the seed-wing, the two
  species are alike.

    Plate XVII.

    Fig. 160, Cone. Fig. 161, Leaf-fascicle. Fig. 162, Magnified
    leaf-section.

23. PINUS CANARIENSIS

    1825 P. canariensis Smith in Buch, Canar. Ins. 159.

Spring-shoots uninodal, pruinose. Bud-scales with conspicuously long free fimbriate margins.

  A species confined to the Canary Islands, but cultivated in northern
  Italy. The stately habit of this tree is seen in Schröter's portrait
  (Exc. Canar. Ins. t. 15).

    Plate XVII.

    Fig. 163, Cone and seed. Fig. 164, Magnified leaf-section. Fig. 165,
    Habit of the tree.

=IX. PINEAE=

Seed-wing articulate, short, ineffective. Leaves binate, the sheath persistent. One species only.

24. PINUS PINEA

    1753 P. pinea Linnaeus, Sp. Pl. 1000.
    1778 P. sativa Lamarck, Fl. Franç. ii. 200.
    1854 P. maderiensis Tenore in Ann. Sci. Nat. sér. 4, ii. 379.

Spring-shoots uninodal. Leaves from 12 to 20 cm. long; resin-ducts external. Conelet mutic,
slightly larger in the second year. Cones triennial, from 10 to 14 cm. long, ovoid or subglobose;
apophyses lustrous nut-brown, convex, of large size, the umbo double; seeds large with a short,
loosely articulated, deciduous wing.

  A species of the Mediterranean Basin, from Portugal to Syria. Its
  northern limit is in southern France and northern Italy, but it is
  cultivated in the southern parts of the British Isles and is a
  familiar ornament of park and garden in southern Europe, and is valued
  for its peculiar beauty and for its large savory nuts. In wood anatomy
  as well as in the seed it agrees with the Gerardianae of the Soft
  Pines.

    Plate XVIII.

    Fig. 166, Fruit of three seasons. Fig. 167, Cone-scales and seed.
    Fig. 168, Magnified leaf-section. Fig. 169, Habit of the tree.

=Pinaster=

Bases of the bracts subtending leaf-fascicles decurrent. Seeds with an effective articulate
wing. Umbo of the cone-scales dorsal. Leaves serrulate, stomatiferous on all faces, the sheath
persistent. Walls of the tracheids of the medullary rays dentate.

  Forty-two of the sixty-six species of Pinus are included in this
  subsection. As a group they are clearly circumscribed by several
  correlated characters and are more closely interrelated than the
  twenty-four species previously described. The distinctions of umbo and
  seed have disappeared. The umbo here is invariably dorsal, the
  seed-wing invariably articulate.

  New forms, however, are gradually evolved--the seed with a thick
  wing-blade, the indurated oblique cone, the serotinous cone with its
  intermittent seed-release, and the multinodal spring-shoot. There are,
  moreover, new forms of leaf-hypoderm and a new position of the
  resin-duct.

  Of these new characters, the thick wing-blade attains such proportions
  in the three species of the Macrocarpae that they can be grouped
  apart. But the characters that finally culminate in a lateral oblique
  serotinous cone are so gradually and irregularly developed that they
  offer no divisional distinctions. With the aid of wood and leaf
  characters, however, groups can be established which preserve the
  evolutionary sequence and, at the same time, the obvious affinity of
  the species.

    Wing-blade thin or slightly thickened at the base. Macrocarpae

  The species of this subsection are very difficult, if not impossible,
  to classify by the usual method, which groups all species under a few
  characters assumed to be invariable and of fundamental importance.
  Such a method can be successfully applied to the Soft Pines and to
  some of the Hard Pines, but cannot be applied to all the Hard Pines
  without forcing some of them into unnatural associations.

  To take an example, the group Pseudostrobus, characterized by
  pentamerous leaf-fascicles, appears in many systems. In this group are
  placed P. Torreyana and P. leiophylla. Another group, with trimerous
  fascicles, contains P. Sabiniana and P. taeda. Now there are no two
  species more obviously related by important peculiarities than P.
  Torreyana and P. Sabiniana; nevertheless they are, by this method,
  kept apart and associated with species which they resemble in no
  important particular.

  An attempt is made here to avoid such incongruities. Groups X, XI and
  XII represent different stages of evolution. In the Lariciones the
  cone is symmetrical, and dehiscent and deciduous at maturity, while
  the spring-shoot is uninodal. In the Australes there is a similar
  cone, but the spring-shoot gradually becomes multinodal. In the
  Insignes the cone is oblique, persistent and serotinous, and the
  spring-shoot is multinodal.

  These definitions state the degree of evolution attained by each
  group, but not all the species of a group conform exactly with its
  definition. In each group are species with a characteristic of another
  group. Among the Lariciones are a few species with both symmetrical
  and oblique cones, and two with persistent cones. Similar exceptions
  occur among the Australes. Among the Insignes are a few species with
  symmetrical cones, and two with cones that are rarely, if ever,
  serotinous.

  There is, however, no difficulty in fixing the systematic position of
  these exceptional species through other characters which show their
  true affinity. They are placed with the species which they most
  resemble. Their exceptional characters are merely the evidence of the
  evolution that pervades and unites the groups. Therefore the
  definition of a group is not necessarily the exact definition of its
  species, and a species is placed in a group because all its
  characters, specific and evolutional, show a closer affinity with that
  group than with the species of any other.

=X. LARICIONES=

Pits of the ray-cells large. Cells of the leaf-hypoderm uniform. Spring-shoots uninodal. Cones
dehiscent at maturity.

  This group represents the first stage in the evolution of the Hard
  Pines. All the species, like the Soft Pines, are uninodal and the
  cones are dehiscent at maturity, but the trend toward the serotinous
  species is shown in the occasional appearance of the oblique cone as a
  varietal form of a few species, and in the persistent cone of the last
  two species of this group.

  All the species of this group are of the Old World except P. resinosa
  and P. tropicalis. These two are the only American Pines combining
  large pits with dentate tracheids, and are the only American Hard
  Pines with external resin-ducts of the leaf.

    Cones deciduous at maturity.
      Cones ovate or ovate-conic.
        Conelet with tuberculate or entire scales.
          Resin-ducts external and medial          25. resinosa
          Resin-ducts septal and external          26. tropicalis
        Conelet with mucronate scales.
          Resin-ducts mostly external.
            Conelet pedunculate, erect.
              Cone nut-brown                       27. Massoniana
              Cone dull tawny yellow               28. densiflora
            Conelet pedunculate, reflexed          29. sylvestris
            Conelet subsessile, erect              30. montana
          Resin-ducts mostly medial.
            Bark-formation late                    31. luchuensis
            Bark-formation early.
              Cone nut-brown                       32. Thunbergii
              Cone lustrous tawny yellow           33. nigra
      Cones narrow cylindrical                     34. Merkusii
    Cones tenaciously persistent.
      Leaves stout, relatively short               35. sinensis
      Leaves slender, relatively long              36. insularis

25. PINUS RESINOSA

    1789 P. resinosa Aiton, Hort. Kew. iii. 367.
    1810 P. rubra Michaux f. Hist. Arbr. Am. i. 45, t. 1.

Spring-shoots uninodal. Leaves binate, from 12 to 17 cm. long; resin-ducts external or external
and medial; hypoderm uniform and inconspicuous. Scales of the conelet mutic. Cones from 4 to
6 cm. long, subsessile, symmetrical, deciduous the third year, leaving a few basal scales on
the tree; apophyses sublustrous, nut-brown, somewhat thickened along a transverse keel.

  From Nova Scotia and Lake St. John this species ranges westward to the
  Winnipeg River and southward into Minnesota, Michigan, northern New
  York and eastern Massachusetts, with rare occurrence on the mountains
  of Pennsylvania. Under cultivation it is a beautiful tree, adapted to
  cold-temperate climates. It was considered by Loiseleur (1812) and by
  Spach (1842) to be a variety of P. nigra (laricio). The two species
  vary in the color of the cone, the anatomy of the leaves, the buds,
  and in the armature of the conelet. A fallen cone of this species is
  moreover usually imperfect from the loss of a few basal scales.

    Plate XIX.

    Fig. 170, Cone and enlarged conelet. Fig. 171, Leaf-fascicle and
    magnified leaf-section.

26. PINUS TROPICALIS

    1851 P. tropicalis Morelet in Rev. Hort. Côte d'Or, i. 105.
    1904 P. terthrocarpa Shaw in Gard. Chron. ser. 3, xxxv. 179, f. 74.

Spring-shoots uninodal. Leaves binate, sometimes ternate, from 15 to 30 cm. long, rigid, erect;
hypoderm of uniform thick-walled cells; resin-ducts of remarkable size, septal, or not quite
touching the endoderm and technically external. Scales of the conelet minutely tuberculate.
Cones from 5 to 8 cm. long, short-pedunculate, erect or patulous; ovate-conic, symmetrical;
apophyses rufous brown, low-pyramidal, the umbo mutic.

  Growing at sea-level within the tropics and confined to western Cuba
  and the Isle of Pines. On the island it is associated with P.
  caribaea. This species needs no other means of identification than its
  peculiar leaf-section. Septal ducts are found in P. oocarpa, Pringlei,
  Merkusii and rarely in other species, but they never attain the
  extraordinary size that appears to be invariable in P. tropicalis.

    Plate XIX.

    Fig. 172, Cone and enlarged conelet. Fig. 173, Branch with leaves,
    much reduced. Fig. 174, Leaf-fascicle and magnified leaf-section.
    Fig. 175, Trees on the Isle of Pines.

27. PINUS MASSONIANA

1803 P. Massoniana Lambert, Gen. Pin. i. 17, t. 12. 1861 P. canaliculata Miquel in Jour. Bot.
Neerland. i. 86.

Spring-shoots uninodal. Leaves binate, rarely ternate, from 12 to 20 cm. long, slender and
pliant; hypoderm inconspicuous; resin-ducts external. Staminate catkins often in long dense
clusters. Conelets partly tuberculate or mucronate, partly mutic. Cones symmetrical, from 4
to 7 cm. long, ovate-conic, short-pedunculate, early deciduous; apophyses sublustrous, nut-brown,
flat or somewhat elevated, the umbo usually mutic.

