A visual reconnoissance of the ground immediately in front of me to the south showed, within
reach, the stump of a sapling.  I couldn't see whether it had been cut by shell fire or for
camouflage.  Wriggling forward a few feet, I extended my arm outside the bush.  It was too
clean a cut for shell fire, my fingers told me.  Nothing but a sharp ax had severed it so smoothly.
Here was one spot I'd circuit before going south--if I would avoid "going west."

The night was wearing on, and I caught myself half dozing several times.  I kept looking at
my watch and telling myself that I mustn't--mustn't sleep.  The rawness of early morning did
much to keep me awake in my muddy, soggy clothes.

At about four o'clock I noticed that the stars were thinning out.  If only it would rain! 
I will always believe that there was something miraculous about the way the heavens were swept
clear of those stars, as if a great hand had gathered them in.  For soon a wind came up that
tossed the tree tops and bent even the bushes.  And with it, within a few minutes, a heavy,
lashing rain.  Nothing could have better suited my purpose.

I reached up and snapped off a few branches.  No danger now of being heard.  The wind was kicking
up a delightful rustling.  The twigs I inserted under my collar, their leaves thus giving some
covering to my face and breaking the line of my helmet.

Without loss of time I began crawling, taking care merely to keep low. As I left, a German
voice was traveling along what I assumed to be the line of funk holes, yelling "Posten!" every
few seconds.  I figured that it was their "Stand to," or the relieving of a guard, for a little
earlier there had been the regular tramp of feet--maybe two squads, from the sound--along a
plank walk to my rear.

Machine guns were clattering away at their matins in several places in the woods, but I was
leaving them farther and farther in my wake--the only wake of mine that I wanted them to attend.
Once more it was the struggle with the forest; once more the difficulty of keeping my bearings,
constantly watching the delicate compass.  But breasting the wilderness didn't matter now.
I was hungry and thirsty and so tired that it was a real effort to plow my feet through the
undergrowth.  But at least, I was done with boche voices.

Then I came to a path in the exact center of which was a shell crater nearly full of clay-colored
water.  I almost fell upon the hole reaching back for my canteen.  But as I leaned toward it,
a strong smell of mustard gas rose.  And I went on!

I hadn't gone far along the path when somewhere a boche shouted something, but he was not very
near and must have been calling to a comrade.  I darted into the woods again, resolved to stay
in them if I dropped some place for good.  I was awfully tired, and to my surprise found myself
staggering.

Over fallen trees I climbed, so high that at times I was well above the young saplings.  Dawn
was breaking now, and it was easier to preserve a sense of direction.  I came to another crater.
While I took the precaution to smell, I would have drunk, I believe, even had the water been
gassed.  My mouth was terribly parched.  Already I had resorted to shaking the rain-wet young
trees over my upturned face; I had even pressed their wet leaves against my tongue.  Now I
drank--drank till I could hold no more.  The water was almost as filthy as Gunga Din's--but
it was wonderful!

Broad day had come when I reached another such wide clearing as that of our dueling exploit.
I was timid of taking it, but it ran south; indeed, it may have been the same.  The firing
was faint behind me, and I decided to follow it.  I was vexed because I could not quite control
my steps.  My gun was swinging listlessly in my hand, and for the first time in twenty-four
hours I pushed it back into its holster.

Half an hour's going disclosed a broad road ahead.  I was passing untenanted trenches.  I heard
voices ahead presently and sprang into the bushes at the side.  Then I went ahead slowly, with
ears keen.  The voices grew more distinct; I caught syllables and--it was English, good old
English!

I tumbled out and approached several Americans standing near a funk hole.  I went up to one
of them.  He looked at me with some concern in his eyes.

"My God, but I'm glad to see you!" I said.  They were of the Third Battalion, and my exclamation
must have startled them, for, of course, I did not know them.  "Tell me something in American,"
I added.  My nerves were frayed, I guess, and my voice sounded curiously far-off.

"Is anything the matter, sir?" one of them asked.

"Nothing at all.  I'm on my way back to regiment at Karlsruhe.  Will this path take me?"

Then I learned that I had reached the Tirpitz trench, the reserve battalion's new position.

"Let me go back to the next runner post with you," said one, and made to take my arm.  Which
annoyed me, naturally.

The colonel was about to eat breakfast when I arrived at the fancy dugouts we had taken so
many eons ago.  I indicated my battalion's position on his map and told him the situation briefly.

Lieutenant McKeogh adds, "Relief was sent with ammunition and food on September 30, and on
the following day the refreshed command started forward again--again to be cut off, this time
for five days."  The men in the battalion crouched in the rain and the cold in their shallow
and hastily constructed trenches.  The Germans kept a constant fire upon them from machine
guns and attempted to reach them with their artillery, but fortunately they did not get the
exact range.

There were machine-gun nests all about them and if a man showed himself ever so little or made
any loud noise, he brought upon all of them volleys from the guns and from the trench mortars.
At regular intervals all the machine guns would sweep the place with a rain of bullets.  Snipers
were also constantly on the watch for the exposure of the smallest part of a man's body.

They had carried little food with them, for they expected it to follow them along their line
of communication.  There was water in the swampy little creek in the ravine, but to attempt
to reach it by day meant certain death.  At night the enemy covered it with machine gun fire,
making it almost impossible for the Americans to crawl down and back again.  Many did make
the venture, and some returned with their canteens full, which they shared with their comrades.
Others were found afterward by the stream where they had fallen under the enemy's fire.

At regimental headquarters it was known, even before Lieutenant McKeogh got through, that the
battalion was surrounded in the forest, unless it had been exterminated or had surrendered.
So daily, American aviators flew over the forest attempting to locate the men.  They dropped
carrier pigeons in boxes hoping some of them might fall into Major Whittlesey's hands and that
by them he might send his location to the colonel.  They also dropped boxes of food, but neither
the pigeons nor the food reached the "lost battalion."

Major Whittlesey had no rockets to send up to give his location, and his men could not yell
loud enough to make the aviators hear them and locate them, but their yells did help the Germans
to get better range for their trench mortars and machine guns.

As the days passed the Americans grew more and more exhausted, but their courage and hope continued
strong.  All would rather die than surrender.  Their ammunition was getting so low that the
Germans were able to come closer to them, for Major Whittlesey ordered his men only to fire
when the Hun was near enough so that they were sure not to miss him.

After five days of this terrible exposure and strain, the battalion was rescued by a relief
party.  Of more than six hundred men at the beginning, three hundred and ninety-four survived
at the end of the five days' fighting and suffering.  All were completely exhausted, and many
wounded.  Many were so weak they had to be carried to the rear where warm blankets, warm food,
and drink awaited them.

But more than this awaited them.  Their comrades were waiting for them with happy smiles and
proud cheers.  A place in history among the valiant deeds of brave and daring men also awaited
them.  They taught a lesson in pluck and endurance that the world will not allow to be forgotten.

To those who read this story of The Lost Battalion, Colonel Whittlesey and Lieutenant McKeogh
send the following messages:--

The most striking memory of one who returns from abroad is the memory of the enlisted men,
who bore the real hardship of the war and did their work in a simple, cheerful way.

Charles W. Whittlesey.

America's greatest contribution to the World War was--the enlisted man. His calm valor, his
smiling self-sacrifice can never be told.

Arthur McKeogh
  1st Lieut., Inf., U.S.A.

UNITED STATES DAY

United States Day was celebrated in Paris on April 20, 1918.

On that day, exercises were held in the great hall of the Sorbonne; on April 21, a reception
was given the American ambassador, and a great procession marched to the statue of Lafayette.
The Stars and Stripes flew from the Eiffel Tower and from the municipal buildings on both days.

At the exercises in the Sorbonne on April 20, M. Millerand, president of the French Maritime
League, ranked Wilson with Washington and Lincoln.

"Washington, Lincoln, Wilson--these are immortal types of the presidency of a democracy--men
who, conscious of their responsibilities, assume the duty of guiding the people at whose head
they have the honor to be placed, thus realizing the necessary harmony in human affairs between
the principle of authority and the principle of liberty.  Yes, history will assign to President
Wilson a place among the great statesmen of all time, for he has been able to make clear the
reasons why honor condemned neutrality and commanded war in order to assure to humanity the
blessing of peace."

Following the speech, the American and French flags were held aloft, touching each other. 
Then a French poet, Jean Richepin, recited with great emotion and telling effect, a poem he
had composed for the occasion, entitled, "The Kiss of the Flags."  Ambassador Sharp saluted
the great republic of France and her Allies.

In London, the American flag flew on April 20, 1918, where no flag except the British flag
had flown in all history, at the top of the Victoria Tower over the Houses of Parliament at
Westminster.  A solemn and beautiful service was held at St. Paul's Cathedral.  The King and
Queen and England's greatest men and women attended.

These celebrations in Paris and London and elsewhere are of importance to America, because
they proved that the world was beginning to realize that the people of the United States were
more than money seekers looking only for selfish gain, and therefore weak and unreliable. 
When America entered the war, a leading German paper said,

"We do not think that America's intervention will have an essential effect on the results of
the war.  The Allies are going to have a momentary advantage, but they will soon be aware that
America is like a stick that breaks when one wants to lean on it."

Another great German daily gave the following as America's reasons for joining the Allies:--

"First, the desire to have a place at the peace conference; second, the wish to weaken or destroy
the love of different peoples for their native lands; third, the hope thereby to be able to
increase her military and naval equipment; and fourth, the desire to build up a great American
merchant fleet."

Because Germany saw in the United States only the love of power and of the Almighty Dollar,
she made the terrible mistake that brought about her downfall.  With the declaration of war
with Germany on April 6, 1917, at least England and France saw the people of America more nearly
as they are, lovers and defenders of the highest ideals man has yet felt and spoken.  The American
soldiers showed a little later at Belleau Wood and in the Argonne forest, that they loved these
ideals enough to die for them.

The English writer, Hall Caine, described the celebration in London in beautiful and graphic
language:--

American Day in London was a great and memorable event.  It was another sentinel on the hilltop
of time, another beacon fire in the history of humanity.  The two nations of Great Britain
and America can never be divided again.  There has been a national marriage between them, which
only one judge can dissolve, and the name of that judge is Death. . . .

Two lessons, at least, must be learned from the service of Friday in St. Paul's Cathedral.
The first is that the accepted idea of the American Nation as one that weighs and measures
all conduct by material values in dollars and cents, must henceforth be banished forever. Thrice
already in its short history has it put that hoary old slander to shame, and now once again
has it given the lie to it.  The history of nations has perhaps no parallel to the high humanity,
the splendid self-sacrifice, the complete disinterestedness that brought America into this
war, with nothing to gain and everything to lose.  It has broken forever with the triple monarchies
of murder.  To live at peace with crime was to be the accomplice of the criminal.  Therefore,
in the name of justice, of mercy, of religion, of human dignity, of all that makes man's life
worth living and distinguishes it from the life of the brute, America, for all she is or ever
can be, has drawn the sword and thrown away the scabbard.  God helping her, she could do no other.

The second of the lessons we have to learn from the services of Friday is that, having made
war in defense of the right, America will make peace the moment the wrong has been righted.
No national bargains will weigh with her, no questions of territory, no problems of the balance
of power, no calculations of profit and loss, no ancient treaties, no material covenants, no
pledges that are the legacy of past European conflicts.  Has justice been done?  Is the safety
of civilization assured?  Has reparation been made, as far as reparation is possible, for the
outrages that have disgraced the name of man, and for the sufferings that have knocked at the
door of every heart in Christendom? These will be her only questions.  Let us take heart and
hope from them.  They bring peace nearer.

It was not for nothing that the flags of Great Britain and America hung side by side under
the chancel arch on Friday morning.  At one moment the sun shot through the windows of the
dome and lit them up with heavenly radiance.  Was it only the exaltation of the moment that
made us think invisible powers were giving us a sign that in the union of the nations, which
those emblems stood for, lay the surest hope of the day when men will beat their swords into
plowshares and know war no more?  The United States of Great Britain and America!  God grant
the union celebrated in our old sanctuary may never be dissolved until that great day has dawned.

NOVEMBER 11, 1918

Sinners are said sometimes to repent and change their ways at the eleventh hour; and on the
eleventh hour of the eleventh day of the eleventh month of the year of 1918, the Kaiser, and
other German war lords, if they did not repent, at least changed their ways, for at that hour
the armistice went into effect and the war was over, with Germany and her allies humbled and
defeated.

November 11 has become one of the great dates in world history, but it was already great in
the history of the nation whose entrance into the World War determined beyond question its
final result.

In the State House Library in Boston, there lies in a glass case a very precious manuscript.
It is the History of the Plymouth Plantation written by Governor William Bradford.  It is often
called The Log of the Mayflower, for it records the journey of the Mayflower carrying the Pilgrims
to a land of freedom.  It tells the story of the forming of an independent government by members
of this little band, strong only in their faith and in their desire for liberty.

In the glass case the written manuscript lies open at the record of the solemn compact made
in the cabin of the Mayflower in order that all who look may read and know the aims of these
few courageous men and women in seeking a new world.

This was about 300 years ago, on November 11, 1620.  Let us read again the compact of these
brave and adventurous souls, who saw the vision of democracy, a dream not realized for the
whole world until 298 years later, on November 11, 1918.

"In the name of God, Amen.

It is safe to say that from this agreement which Senator Hoar called "the most important political
transaction that has ever taken place upon the face of the earth," and from this band of Pilgrims,
has come in the three centuries leading up to world democracy a greater influence for freedom
and liberty than from any other single source in the affairs of men.

How singular that this compact and the armistice with Germany, which is without doubt the most
significant transaction between men in all recorded history, should both have been signed on
November 11!  It has been suggested that hereafter November 11, instead of the last Thursday
in November, should be set aside as Thanksgiving Day.  It certainly should be forever a day
of thanksgiving even if it is not made officially Thanksgiving Day.

Sunday night, November 10, the whole world waited in breathless suspense.  The armistice conditions
had been considered by the German government at a late sitting in Berlin on Sunday afternoon.
Hard as they were, the government decided to accept them and telephoned instructions to Spa,
the headquarters of the German army, authorizing the German delegates to sign the papers. 
The messenger was waiting at Spa to carry the information to the German representatives who
were at Château de Francfort with Marshal Foch and Admiral Sir Rosslyn Wemyss, first lord of
the British navy.  He reached them at about two o'clock on Monday morning, November 11, and
after some discussion the armistice was signed at five o'clock, to become effective six hours
later.

Saturday and Sunday, November 9 and 10, the whole world stopped, looked, and listened.  Nothing
just like it had happened before in the history of mankind.  The world is constantly growing
smaller as men overcome the difficulty of getting quickly from place to place, and peoples
are thereby getting nearer to each other, so that whatever happens to one is of immediate interest
to all others.  The following description of Sunday night and Monday morning in a newspaper
office in a small Massachusetts city is a graphic and interesting account of scenes that were
being enacted at the same time all over the world.

WAITING FOR THE FLASH

Not at once can the mind grasp the full significance of the wonderful event of Monday, and
as time goes on, more and more will the world come to realize what the signing of the armistice
which ended the war means to present and future generations.  Events were moving so rapidly
during the dying days of German military might that keeping pace with them was literally out
of the question.  That Germany was a mere shell, most people who had followed the course of
the war believed; and that she must accept dictated terms of armistice from the allies, regardless
of their severity, was growing clearer day by day.

Events of last Friday made it quite plain that the armistice offered by the allied nations
through Marshal Foch was to be signed by Germany within the specified 72 hours.  This position
was strengthened Saturday afternoon when positive word came that the Kaiser had abdicated.
It was the beginning of the definite end.  It revealed a power in Germany greater than the
power of the Hohenzollerns--the power of an outraged people rising after long years of oppression.

From that hour of mid-afternoon on Saturday when the abdication of the Kaiser was "flashed"
to the Sentinel over its Associated Press wire, there was no relaxation in its plant.  In the
press room--which must be ready at a second's notice--men were on guard for every minute until
the Kaiser's hour struck on Monday morning at 2.45 o'clock.  It mattered not to them that a
bed between two rolls of paper was the softest they could find, for couches and easy chairs
are no part of a newspaper establishment.  Sometimes the thought comes that "newspaper" is
but a synonym for "slavery."

With the coming of Sunday morning, without the expected word, the vigil was taken up in other
directions.  The composing, telegraph, and editorial rooms joined in keeping guard.  The wire
began to tick off its code messages of riots in Berlin, further spreading of the "Red" revolt
in the army and navy, the flight of the dethroned Kaiser to Holland, and the other numerous
signs all pointing to positive assurance that Germany must sign the armistice terms read to
its representatives by Marshal Foch, no matter how stern they might be.  In mid-afternoon came
a brief message plucked from the air--a Berlin wireless--that the signing of the armistice
was expected momentarily. But the hours wore on into late evening, and then came through a
dispatch from Washington saying that the delay of the German courier in crossing the line might
result in an extension of the 72-hour limit. Cold water never had a chilling effect equal to
that.  One by one the afternoon papers began to click out "good night" to the main office until
only a few remained with the morning paper operators.

Around The Associated Press New England circuit it must have been a great day for the tobacco
trust, for pipes burn freely under pressure. From apples to dogs, from men who do little and
make a big fuss about it to men who do much and keep still about it, goes the discussion between
a bite at a sandwich and a sip at a mug of alleged coffee brought in from a lunch room.  All
the while the clock was moving along to the hour that was to say whether the answer was peace
or more war.

It was during an argument, surely--for that's the stock in trade in a newspaper office--that
it came.  What the argument was, and who was winning it and who losing it, is forgotten now,
for from the adjoining room of The Associated Press operator at 2.46 o'clock in the morning
came the wild exclamation--F-L-A-S-H--The Associated Press signal, very seldom employed, indicating
that something big has happened.  Three jumps to the operator's side, and there on the paper
in his typewriter appeared just three words: "Flash--Armistice signed."  It was enough. Action
replaced watchful waiting.

Not long afterward the bells began to ring and the whistles to blow. The assembling place for
the celebration the mayor had ordered was right in front of the Sentinel office, the biggest
and most available congregation park in the city.  By that time the first Sentinel extra had
gone to press, and there was a breathing spell.  From the top floor of the Sentinel home everything
happening below could be seen.  First to arrive in the square was an automobile from Prospect
hill, driven by the chairman of the committee on public safety, for he had been notified simultaneously
with the mayor.  Then another car came up Main street.  Then men on foot began to arrive. 
At first they came in ones and twos and threes, up street and down street and around the corners,
and then in droves and swarms.  Automobiles increased in number, coming from all directions,
with blaring horns and seemingly slight regard for their own safety, but also with much regard
for the safety of others.

Soon the square was alive, and there will not in our time be another sight like it, for war
of conquest is an unpopular business now.  The flashing headlights of the motor cars, the screaming
horns, the yelling men, women and children, combined to make a picture never to be erased from
memory.  It was great to have seen it, even though not an immediate part of it.  Then the parade
started, disappeared down the street, and in due time came back.  Later in the day was another
parade, and a larger and more formal one.  But it was not like the early morning rallying of
the "victory clans."  Nothing again will ever be like it.  A spontaneous celebration of the
victorious ending of a terrible struggle that has rocked the world for more than four years
has a place by itself.

While the city was still seething with jubilant excitement and the main street was getting
more and more alive with people every minute, the darkness of night began to give way before
the dawn of day.  And it was a beautiful dawn, too.  The eastern sky did not reveal itself
in sullen shade, but in clear color, more calm than brilliant, more in keeping with a message
of peace than of strife on earth.[1]

These celebrations were in many cases of the strangest character, the chief aim seeming to
be to march somewhere in some procession and to make as much noise as possible.  In one of
the large cities of Massachusetts, the first sight that struck the eyes of citizens rushing
into the square was fifty or more of the most prominent business men, each in a tin wash boiler,
being drawn by two men over the paved street while its occupant yelled at the top of his voice
and beat its sides with a hammer.  Auto trucks dashed up and down the streets as long as these
were clear, then joined processions or dragged behind them over the pavements four or five
empty galvanized ash cans.  In New York at the premature celebration, which occurred November
8 when a false report was cabled from Europe saying the armistice was signed, and at the celebration
on November 11, thousands of pieces of paper of all sizes were dropped from the windows of
the great buildings, scrap baskets were emptied, catalogues, directories, and other pamphlets
were torn up and dropped sheet by sheet until in some places the entire street was covered
by this "paper snow storm."  It is said that it cost the city $80,000 to clean the paper from
the streets after the celebration was over.

The tolling of church bells all over the country in the very early hours of the morning not
only announced to the people the signing of the armistice, but also announced in many places
church services of thanksgiving.

Some cities and towns held two celebrations beside the so-called "fake" celebration on November
8.  The Governor of Massachusetts early on Monday issued a proclamation naming Tuesday, November
twelfth, as a legal holiday, but this did not deter the people from celebrating on the eleventh.
In Boston all the talcum powder available was purchased and thrown on people's hats and shoulders.
When it was brushed off in considerable quantities, it made the pavements look as if they were
covered with snow and even more slippery.  The chief spectacular feature of the celebration
in Boston, however, was the burning on the Common, on Tuesday night, of twenty-five tons of
red fire in one great blaze.  Similar and perhaps more hilariously happy scenes took place
in New York, Philadelphia, Washington, Atlanta, Chicago, San Francisco,--in every great city
and hamlet in the country.

Soldiers and sailors marched, reviewed by mayors and governors and generals and admirals. 
Speeches were made and songs were sung.  It seemed at times as if everyone had gone crazy.
If a person could have ascended high enough in an air plane and could have had the vision to
have seen the whole United States, he would have perceived a most wonderful sight--a hundred
million people yelling and singing and parading in every nook and corner of this great country.
Nothing shows better the horror and hatred of war that was felt by the American people than
this wonderful joy at the knowledge that it was all over; and nothing shows better how much
liberty and democracy meant to them than their willingness to enter upon war when they so detested
it and so much desired to see it done away with forever.

Imagine the joy on these days in France and England and Belgium with their great cities lit
up again after more than four years of darkness! What wonder that the Belgian boys and girls
in Ghent marched up and down the streets singing, "It's a long, long way to Tipperary," the
song which was probably the last they had heard on the lips of British soldiers as they were
pushed back out of the city by the foe! Meanwhile the adults gathered in groups on the streets
and in the cafés and sang "The Marseillaise."

No other war correspondent felt and described the war with as much sympathy and power as Philip
Gibbs.  His description of the rejoicing in Ghent on Tuesday, November 12, is a beautiful and
touching story. He writes of the lights and the singing as follows:--

"For the first time in five winters of war, they lighted their lamps with open shutters, and
from many windows there streamed out bright beams which lured one like a moth to candle light
because of its sign of peace.  There were bright stars and a crescent moon in the sky, silvering
the Flemish gables and frontages between black shadows and making patterns of laces in the
Place d'Armes below the trees with their autumn foliage.

"In these lights and in these shadows the people of Ghent danced and sang until midnight chimed.
They danced in baker's dozens, with linked arms, men and girls together, singing deep voices
and high voices, all mingling, so that when I went to my bedroom and looked out of the casement
window, it rose in a chorus from all over the city, like music by Debussy.

"One song came as a constant refrain between all the others.  It was 'The Marseillaise.'  They
sang it in crowds and in small groups of soldiers and students, and I followed one man, who
walked down a deserted avenue and who, as he walked, sang the song of liberty to himself, brandishing
his stick, while his voice rang out with a kind of ecstasy of passion."

Messages of congratulation passed from country to country and to armies and navies.  Josephus
Daniels sent by wireless the following tribute to all United States naval stations and ships:--

"The signing of the armistice makes this the greatest day for our country since the signing
of the Declaration of Independence.  For the world there has been no day so momentous for liberty.
I send greetings and congratulations to all in the naval establishments at home and abroad.
The test of war found the navy ready, fit, with every man on his toes.  Every day all the men
in the service have given fresh proof of devotion, loyalty, and efficiency."

President Wilson cabled to King Albert on the day the king was expected to enter Brussels,
the Belgian capital, the following message:--

"Never has a national holiday occurred at a more auspicious moment and never have felicitations
been more heartfelt than those which it is my high privilege to tender to Your Majesty on this
day."

"When facing imminent destruction, Belgium by her self-sacrifice won for herself a place of
honor among nations, a crown of glory, imperishable though all else were lost.

"The danger is averted, the hour of victory come and with it the promise of a new life, fuller,
greater, nobler than has been known before.

"The blood of Belgium's heroic sons has not been shed in vain."

The most terrible and bloody conflict in all history had ended, and the world was saved for
the people.  The struggle upward by the common people for over a thousand years was not after
all to be in vain. Liberty and democracy were now assured to all; the danger of slavery and
autocracy was over.  It was not strange that a whole world seemed to have gone wild with joy.

[1] George H. Godbeer in Fitchburg, Mass., Daily Sentinel.

  TENNYSON.

THE UNITED STATES AT WAR--IN FRANCE

Adapted with a few omissions and changes in language from the report of General Pershing made
November 20, 1918, to the Secretary of War.  We met and considered the best ways of working
together.

The French and British armies could not be increased in strength and they had been unable to
drive the enemy from his systems of trenches in Belgium and France.  It was therefore necessary
to plan for an American force large enough to turn the scale in favor of the Allies.  The problem
before us was one of the very greatest difficulty.  The first step was the formation of a General
Staff and I gave this my early attention.

A well organized General Staff to put into effect the plans of the Commander in Chief is essential
to a successful modern army.  However capable divisions, battalions, and companies may be as
units, success would be impossible unless they worked together.  By selecting from each the
features that best met our needs and helped by our own early experience in the war, our great
General Staff system was completed.

The General Staff is divided into five groups, each with its chief.

With such a problem any hesitation or lack of definiteness in making plans might cause failure
even with victory within our grasp.

The 3d Division had made its advance into Ronchères Wood on the 29th and was relieved for rest
by a brigade of the 32d.

On the 23d, the 3d and 5th Corps pushed northward to the level of Banthéville.

THE UNITED STATES AT WAR--AT HOME

When any nation declares war, it immediately brings upon itself unusual problems and difficulties,
but probably no other nation ever had such problems to solve and such difficulties to overcome
as the United States, immediately after Congress declared a state of war existed with Germany.
The United States was not ready for war.  She had been a peace loving nation, and although
possessed of great natural resources, she had never developed them, to any extent, for the
purpose of carrying on war.  The cosmopolitan people of the United States had never been put
to the severe test of war conditions, and whether or not they would stand together as one great
nation was yet to be proved. This meant that when war was declared the United States had to
start right at the bottom and build up a mighty fighting nation.  This had to be done as quickly
as possible, for Germany's plan was to crush her enemies before the United States could bring
any help.

The first thing that the country was called upon to do was to raise an army.  Under ordinary
circumstances, the government would call for volunteers.  In this way an army could be provided
which would be sufficient for usual conditions.  The war with Germany, however, was by no means
a war in any way like that Americans had taken part in before. The government knew this and
realized that the United States would have to raise an army that numbered in the millions.
To do this, the volunteer system was found entirely inadequate.  So a system of drafting men
was worked out for which the government passed the draft law, compelling all men between the
ages of 21 and 31 to register for military service.  This plan was accepted with great favor
by the people, and consequently, the day after registration the government had ten million
men in the prime of life from which to pick her army.  The draft system was in charge of General
Crowder who, as a result of long study on the subject, had devised a system which was not in
any way influenced by political pull and was equally fair to both the rich and the poor.  Local
boards were established for examining the drafted men, and those selected were soon on their
way to training camps.

To house this great army, the government had to build a great system of army camps.  Contracts
were given out soon after war was declared and the camps began to spring up almost overnight.
The government built 16 draft army camps and 16 national guard camps.  There were also numerous
other military zones where smaller bodies of troops were trained.  The draft army camps were
located so as to house the men from different sections of the country, as a glance at the list
of camps will show:--

Camp Devens, Massachusetts; Camp Upton, New York; Camp Dix, New Jersey; Camp Meade, Maryland;
Camp Lee, Virginia; Camp Jackson, South Carolina; Camp Gordon, Georgia; Camp Sherman, Ohio;
Camp Taylor, Kentucky; Camp Custer, Michigan; Camp Grant, Illinois; Camp Pike, Arkansas; Camp
Dodge, Iowa; Camp Funston, Kansas; Camp Travis, Texas; Camp Lewis, Washington.

These great cities were built in less than four months.  If all the buildings of the sixteen
cantonments were placed end to end, they would make a continuous structure reaching from Washington
to Detroit.  Each one of these camps housed between 35,000 and 47,000 men.  The sixteen cantonments
were capable of providing for a number equal to the combined population of Arizona and New
Mexico.  The hospitals of these camps were able to take care of as many sick and wounded as
are to be found in all the hospitals west of the Mississippi in normal times. Each camp covered
many square miles of land which had to be cleared of trees and brush before buildings and roads
were completed.

To keep these cantonments clean and fit to live in, large numbers of sanitary engineers, medical
officers, and scientific experts were kept busy planning and installing the most modern sanitation
systems.  To command this great army, the government built officers' camps where men best fitted
were trained to be officers, and were then sent to the cantonments to help in changing the
American citizen into a soldier. War was declared in April, and by the hot weather of summer
America was sending troops by the tens of thousands to Europe.  The wonderful way in which
American shipbuilders had made it possible to transport these soldiers is told later.  But
before leaving the subject of raising an army, let us first see by means of figures just what
the United States had accomplished in this work.  In August, 1918, the overseas force alone
was seven times as large as the entire United States army sixteen months before, at the declaration
of war.  In this time she had transported a million and a half troops overseas and had the
same number on this side, with the numbers always increasing.  In September, 1918, she had
another draft and registration, calling men between the ages of 18 and 45.  This gave thirteen
million more men.

The colleges of the country had suffered a great deal because of the two draft laws, as practically
all men of college age were liable to military service.  To overcome this difficulty, the government
established in the fall of 1918, the Student Army Training Corps.  This plan allowed all students
of military age, who were physically fit, to enlist in the army and receive military training,
and at the same time obtain a college education.  From these men the government planned to
choose future officer material.  Although the war came to a close before the plan could be
fully carried out, it gave every promise of being a success.

It must be evident that perhaps even a greater problem than raising the army was how it was
to be transported to Europe.  At the beginning of the war, the United States had no ships to
use for her necessary task of transporting men and supplies.  The ships that were sailing from
her ports were all doing their capacity work and could not be used for the new demands.  The
Shipping Board immediately looked around for yards to place orders for new ships; but there
were no yards to fill the orders, as the few the United States had were all overburdened with
work.  The only remaining solution of the problem was to build new yards.  America did it.

The United States went into the war with something like thirty steel and twenty-four wood shipyards,
employing less than eighty thousand men.  In a little over a year's time, there were one hundred
and fifty-five yards turning out ships and employing over three hundred and eighty-six thousand
men.  These men turned out more tonnage every month than the United States had ever turned
out in any entire year before the war.  Of the new yards, the greatest was the famous Hog Island
yard.  On what was once a swamp on the Delaware River, just below Philadelphia, the United
States built this yard which is the largest in the world.  The demand for speed in building
resulted in the plan of fabricating the steel before sending it to the yards.  By this method
the steel is cut and punched before going to the yard where it is then assembled.  Thus steel
mills at long distances from the shipyards could be doing a very considerable part of building
the ships.  Perhaps the great increase in shipping can be best stated by a few figures.  In
the month of January, 1918, America produced 88,507 tons.  Six months later in July she produced
631,944 tons.  Before the war the official estimate of America's annual shipping production
was 200,000 tons.  The estimated production for 1919 was 7,500,000 tons.

The United States navy at the time of the declaration of war was unprepared for the task ahead
of it.  It was efficient but not nearly large enough for the tremendous amount of work it was
called upon to perform.  The troop and supply transports needed convoys.  There were hundreds
of miles of coast to be patrolled.  Merchant ships must be armed with men and guns.  All this
had to be done, besides the work of aiding the Allied fleets in European waters.  The government
was not long in seeing the need of a great increase in the naval force and was soon making
plans to bring this about.  New yards were constructed immediately for the building of warships,
and the capacity of the old yards was increased.  These yards were soon busy turning out destroyers
and battleships at a remarkable speed.  The special work of patrolling the coasts for submarines
called for a great many small and speedy submarine chasers.  Motor boat manufacturers all over
the country immediately began to make these swift little craft which were popularly called
the "mosquito fleet."  Even the great factories of Henry Ford, although already busy turning
out thousands of motor cars, found room to build these chasers at their inland factories. 
They were built on specially constructed flat cars, which were then drawn to the coast, where
the ships were launched.

As the number of ships increased, the man power was accordingly increased.  The navy established
a new record by placing a unit of five 14-inch naval guns mounted on specially built railway
cars for land duty in France.  These guns were the longest range guns in France and were out-distanced
only by the great German super guns, the destroying of which was one of their objects.  The
German super gun fired a small shell for a distance of from sixty to seventy miles.  The naval
14-inch guns fired a 1400 lb. shell about twenty-five miles.  Although this was a new departure
for the navy, it met with the same success which had crowned all of the other war work of this
branch of the service.

In figures the work of the navy stands out prominently.  At the time war was declared, the
navy had 65,777 men in the service and 197 ships in commission; when the armistice was signed,
the navy consisted of 497,030 men and about 2000 ships, out of which 75,000 men and 388 ships
were on duty in foreign waters.

While army and navy preparations were going on, the business of obtaining munitions and supplies
was being very carefully attended to. Before the war there were very few firms making supplies
for the government.  This meant that the government would have to turn to the great private
concerns for its material.  These firms dropped all their pre-war work and attended strictly
to government orders.  The result was that at the end of the summer of 1918 the government
was doing business with over 3,000 firms and had over 12,000 contracts in operation.  Even
small plants invested heavily in increasing their capacity so as to be able to turn out more
and better work for the government.  The organizing and manufacturing genius of the American
people came to the front with a result that the American overseas forces were almost entirely
supplied by American products, thereby taking little strength away from the foreign manufacturers.

A few facts concerning the production of motor vehicles will give an idea of the immensity
of America's manufacturing program.  The automobile industry as a whole expended one billion
three hundred million dollars in order to expand its factories to fill government orders. 
By the month of October, 1918, 70,000 motor trucks had been sent overseas.  At the end of the
war, 5-ton and 10-ton trucks were being built at the rate of 1000 a day, and all trucks, at
the rate of shipment then prevailing, would have in a year's time made a procession 300 miles long.

If critical persons were to try to point out any weakness in America's preparedness program,
they would probably take the production of aircraft as an instance where the government had
failed.  Although America was slow in producing airplanes, it must be taken into consideration
that this was almost entirely a new departure for American manufacturers.  The delay in airplane
production was due to the fact that there was too much red tape to be unrolled before actual
work was begun.  The government soon realized this and appointed one man to have entire charge
of aircraft production.  Under his management the red tape was thrown aside and business-like
methods took its place.

The combined ability of the automobile engineers of the country produced the Liberty motor
which proved to be one of the best airplane engines ever developed to lift great weights. 
The DeHaviland and Handley-Page, bombing and reconnaissance planes, were immediately equipped
largely with the new Liberty.  3180 of the former and 101 of the latter were produced in this
country in the year before the armistice was signed.  Out of this number 1379 had been shipped
overseas.  In the meantime the production of planes had been far outstripped by the enlisted
and commissioned personnel of the air service.  Thousands of cadets and officers were delayed
in the ground schools, at the flying schools, and at Camp Dick, Texas, the concentration post
for aviation, because of the ruinous shortage of planes, just when the American forces newly
brought into the battle zones needed the efficient help of a great fleet of aircraft. Airplanes
are rightly called "the eyes of the army."  It is unofficially stated that less than 800 American
aviators ever saw service over the German lines, and these men, not having American scout planes,
used largely foreign models equipped with the famous French Gnome, LeRhone, and Hispano-Suiza
motors.  American-made machines, whether for bombing, observing, or scouting, went into action
for the first time in July, 1918.

The American people before the war were the most wasteful people in the world.  This was probably
due to the fact that the people had never been confronted by a real necessity for economizing.
However, when war was declared the government immediately demanded that the people conserve
their food.  The result was that Americans were soon observing wheatless, meatless, and porkless
days with great patriotic fervor. 12,000,000 families signed pledges to observe the rules of
the food administration, and hotels and restaurants joined in the great conservation effort.
War gardens sprang up by the millions.  The country was soon conserving millions of pounds
of foodstuffs that would ordinarily have been wasted.  A food "hog" was considered in the same
light as a traitor!

On the same plan as the food administration, the government conducted the conservation of coal.
The result was that the essential industries received coal first and the people could get only
what was absolutely necessary for heating their homes.  Lights were turned out in cities early
to save fuel.  The "daylight saving" plan from April to November turned the clocks ahead one
hour.  As a result of all these precautions, the factories were kept going, the ships were
not hindered for lack of coal, and America's great preparedness program was carried on without
hindrance or delay.

It is difficult to realize what gigantic efforts America was putting forth.  An illustration
from the manufacture of ordnance will help such an understanding.  In the fall of 1918, the
United States government was spending upon the making of ordnance alone, every thirty days,
an amount equal to the cost of the Panama Canal, and it was spending as much or more in several
other departments.  What a terrible loss war brings to the world!

To finance these tremendous preparedness projects, the government called upon the people to
lend their money by buying government liberty bonds.  This was an entirely new thing for the
American people of any generation, but they responded in a manner that showed the government
that the people were backing it to the last inch, and that they were out to win as quickly
as possible, regardless of cost, or other sacrifices they were called upon to make.  The government
conducted great loan campaigns.  Each one met with greater success than the one preceding it.
The bonds were bought by all classes of people, and a man without a bond was like a dog without
a home.  Of course the great banks and corporations bought millions of dollars worth of bonds,
but the great number of small denomination bonds bought by the wage-earning classes was what
spelled the success of the loans.  The total amount raised by the five loans was approximately
twenty-two billion dollars.

Besides these great loans, the American people contributed $300,000,000 to two Red Cross funds
inside of a year.  There were also enormous contributions to the Y. M. C. A., the Knights of
Columbus, the War Camp Community Service, the Salvation Army, and allied funds.

Although a great deal of credit for the remarkable success of America's preparedness program
is due to the fact that she had such wonderful resources, the true underlying reason for her
success is the magnificent spirit of the American people.  Germany thought that, because of
the cosmopolitan make-up of the people and the immensity of the country they occupied, they
would not unite as one great nation. The United States has proved for all time that she is
one solid indivisible nation with ho thought of anything but the progress and liberty of her
country and the world, of the unsullied honor and unquestioned defense of her flag, and of
all for which it stands.

*******************

It was not his olive valleys and orange groves which made the Greece of the Greek; it was not
for his apple orchards or potato fields that the farmer of New England and New York left his
plough in the furrow and marched to Bunker Hill, to Bennington, to Saratoga.  A man's country
is not a certain area of land, but it is a principle; and patriotism is loyalty to that principle.
The secret sanctification of the soil and symbol of a country is the idea which they represent;
and this idea the patriot worships through the name and the symbol. . . .

We of America, with our soil sanctified and our symbol glorified by the great ideas of liberty
and religion,--love of freedom and of God,--are in the foremost vanguard of this great caravan
of humanity.  To us rulers look, and learn justice, while they tremble; to us the nations look,
and learn to hope, while they rejoice.  Our heritage is all the love and heroism of liberty
in the past; and all the great of the Old World are our teachers.

GEORGE WILLIAM CURTIS.

PRESIDENT WILSON IN FRANCE

On December 14, 1918, President Wilson arrived in Paris.  He had by leaving North America done
something never done before by an American president; but he was never afraid to establish
a new precedent if he believed his duty called upon him to do so.  Very rarely have the presidents
gone in person before Congress to read their messages, but Woodrow Wilson revived the custom.
In leaving the continent, however, he was not reviving an abandoned custom but establishing
an entirely new precedent.

He sailed on one of the huge American transports, the George Washington, and was wildly welcomed
upon his arrival at Brest, the American base in France.

In Paris, at a great dinner given in his honor, he was welcomed by President Poincaré in the
following words:--

Mr. President:  Paris and France awaited you with impatience.  They were eager to acclaim in
you the illustrious democrat whose words and deeds were inspired by exalted thought, the philosopher
delighting in the solution of universal laws from particular events, the eminent statesman
who had found a way to express the highest political and moral truths in formulas which bear
the stamp of immortality.

They had also a passionate desire to offer thanks, in your person, to the great Republic of
which you are the chief for the invaluable assistance which had been given spontaneously, during
this war, to the defenders of right and liberty.

Even before America had resolved to intervene in the struggle she had shown to the wounded
and to the orphans of France a solicitude and a generosity the memory of which will always
be enshrined in our hearts. The liberality of your Red Cross, the countless gifts of your fellow-citizens,
the inspiring initiative of American women, anticipated your military and naval action, and
showed the world to which side your sympathies inclined.  And on the day when you flung yourselves
into the battle with what determination your great people and yourself prepared for united success!

Some months ago you cabled to me that the United States would send ever-increasing forces,
until the day should be reached on which the Allied armies were able to submerge the enemy
under an overwhelming flow of new divisions; and, in effect, for more than a year a steady
stream of youth and energy has been poured out upon the shores of France.

No sooner had they landed than your gallant battalions, fired by their chief, General Pershing,
flung themselves into the combat with such a manly contempt of danger, such a smiling disregard
of death, that our longer experience of this terrible war often moved us to counsel prudence.
They brought with them, in arriving here, the enthusiasm of Crusaders leaving for the Holy Land.

It is their right today to look with pride upon the work accomplished and to rest assured that
they have powerfully aided by their courage and their faith.

Eager as they were to meet the enemy, they did not know when they arrived the enormity of his
crimes.  That they might know how the German armies make war it has been necessary that they
see towns systematically burned down, mines flooded, factories reduced to ashes, orchards devastated,
cathedrals shelled and fired--all that deliberate savagery, aimed to destroy national wealth,
nature, and beauty, which the imagination could not conceive at a distance from the men and
things that have endured it and today bear witness to it.

In your turn, Mr. President, you will be able to measure with your own eyes the extent of these
disasters, and the French Government will make known to you the authentic documents in which
the German General Staff developed with astounding cynicism its program of pillage and industrial
annihilation.  Your noble conscience will pronounce a verdict on these facts.

Should this guilt remain unpunished, could it be renewed, the most splendid victories would
be in vain.

Mr. President, France has struggled, has endured, and has suffered during four long years;
she has bled at every vein; she has lost the best of her children; she mourns for her youths.
She yearns now, even as you do, for a peace of justice and security.

It was not that she might be exposed once again to aggression that she submitted to such sacrifices.
Nor was it in order that criminals should go unpunished, that they might lift their heads again
to make ready for new crimes, that, under your strong leadership, America armed herself and
crossed the ocean.

Faithful to the memory of Lafayette and Rochambeau, she came to the aid of France, because
France herself was faithful to her traditions.  Our common ideal has triumphed.  Together we
have defended the vital principles of free nations.  Now we must build together such a peace
as will forbid the deliberate and hypocritical renewing of an organism aiming at conquest and
oppression.

Peace must make amends for the misery and sadness of yesterday, and it must be a guarantee
against the dangers of tomorrow.  The association which has been formed for the purpose of
war, between the United States and the Allies, and which contains the seed of the permanent
institutions of which you have spoken so eloquently, will find from this day forward a clear
and profitable employment in the concerted search for equitable decisions and in the mutual
support which we need if we are to make our rights prevail.

Whatever safeguards we may erect for the future, no one, alas, can assert that we shall forever
spare to mankind the horrors of new wars. Five years ago the progress of science and the state
of civilization might have permitted the hope that no Government, however autocratic, would
have succeeded in hurling armed nations upon Belgium and Serbia.

Without lending ourselves to the illusion that posterity will be forevermore safe from these
collective follies, we must introduce into the peace we are going to build all the conditions
of justice and all the safeguards of civilization that we can embody in it.

To such a vast and magnificent task, Mr. President, you have chosen to come and apply yourself
in concert with France.  France offers you her thanks.  She knows the friendship of America.
She knows your rectitude and elevation of spirit.  It is in the fullest confidence that she
is ready to work with you.

President Wilson replied:--

Mr. President: I am deeply indebted to you for your gracious greeting.  It is very delightful
to find myself in France and to feel the quick contact of sympathy and unaffected friendship
between the representatives of the United States and the representatives of France.

You have been very generous in what you were pleased to say about myself, but I feel that what
I have said and what I have tried to do has been said and done only in an attempt to speak
the thought of the people of the United States truly, and to carry that thought out in action.

From the first, the thought of the people of the United States turned toward something more
than the mere winning of this war.  It turned to the establishment of eternal principles of
right and justice.  It realized that merely to win the war was not enough; that it must be
won in such a way and the question raised by it settled in such a way as to insure the future
peace of the world and lay the foundations for the freedom and happiness of its many peoples
and nations.

Never before has war worn so terrible a visage or exhibited more grossly the debasing influence
of illicit ambitions.

I know with what ardor and enthusiasm the soldiers and sailors of the United States have given
the best that was in them to this war of redemption.  They have expressed the true spirit of
America.  They believe their ideals to be acceptable to free peoples everywhere, and are rejoiced
to have played the part they have played in giving reality to those ideals in coöperation with
the armies of the Allies.  We are proud of the part they have played, and we are happy that
they should have been associated with such comrades in a common cause.

It is with peculiar feeling, Mr. President, that I find myself in France joining with you in
rejoicing over the victory that has been won.  The ties that bind France and the United States
are peculiarly close.  I do not know in what other comradeship we could have fought with more
zest or enthusiasm.  It will daily be a matter of pleasure with me to be brought into consultation
with the statesmen of France and her Allies in concerting the measures by which we may secure
permanence for these happy relations of friendship and coöperation, and secure for the world
at large such safety and freedom in its life as can be secured only by the constant association
and coöperation of friends.

I greet you not only with deep personal respect, but as the representative of the great people
of France, and beg to bring you the greetings of another great people to whom the fortunes
of France are of profound and lasting interest.

This meeting of the American and the French presidents at a banquet in the French capital is
a remarkable incident in the history of the world.  The statement of the likelihood of such
a meeting would have been ridiculed before the war.

As we read the speeches, however, and grasp their full meaning, we understand that the most
remarkable fact about the historic meeting is that the leaders of two great republics met with
minds and hearts set upon justice.  They were determined that the weak who had suffered unimaginable
wrong should not fail to secure justice because they were weak and they were equally of a mind
that the high and mighty who were responsible for these wrongs should not escape justice because
they were high and mighty.

Many times in the history of the world, meetings of the great have been remembered because
of the show of Might, on every hand.  The meeting of President Wilson and President Poincaré
in Paris on December 14, 1918, will never be forgotten because it was the greatest demonstration
the world has ever seen of the power of Right.

  JAMES RUSSELL LOWELL.

SERGEANT YORK OF TENNESSEE

People will always differ as to what was the most remarkable exploit of the World War.  Major
General George B. Duncan, one of the American commanders who helped to drive the Germans out
of the Argonne forest, has said that Corporal Alvin C. York, a tall, red-headed, raw-boned
mountaineer from Tennessee distinguished himself above all men in the achievement of the greatest
individual deed in the World War.

Because of his brave acts, Corporal York was made Sergeant York, was given the Croix de Guerre
with a palm, and the Congressional Medal of Honor.  His own state has made him a colonel for
life on the Governor's Staff.  I wish to commend you publicly and in the presence of the officers
of your division."  He would not be called handsome, although he was really a fine looking
man, with keen gray eyes that could become hard and penetrating when he was greatly moved.
He was a gentle man with a soft, quiet voice and a Southern drawl.  He was very religious and
was the Second Elder in the Church of Christ and Christian Union when he was called to the
service of his country.

The church to which he belonged did not believe in war.  Like the Quakers, its members were
"conscientious objectors."  It was supposed that Alvin C. York would ask exemption as a "conscientious
objector"; but he did not, although his friends begged him to do so.  He reported for duty
at Camp Gordon, Georgia, on November 14, 1917.

He was often troubled however with the feeling that to kill men, even in a righteous war to
ensure liberty to all the world, was contrary to his religion and the teachings of the Bible.
He finally came to realize that in this belief he was wrong, and that it was his duty, and
the duty of every brave man, to meet armed oppression by arms, and when no other way was left,
to kill those who would by force take away the life and liberty of others.

He was an expert pistol and rifle shot, as are almost all Tennessee and Kentucky mountaineers.
In a shooting match with a major of his division, York is said to have hit with his automatic
pistol at every shot a penny match-box over one hundred feet distant.  His coolness and courage
in the face of danger and his skill with the pistol and rifle enabled him to do the impossible--or
at any rate, what every one would have declared impossible, before Alvin C. York accomplished it.

All through the Argonne forest, from Verdun almost to Sedan, the Americans were obliged to
advance between hills, and often over hills covered with dense tangles of shrubs, vines, and
trees, among which the Germans had hidden machine-gun nests.

Corporal York, on the morning of October 8, 1918, with his battalion was attempting to get
behind the machine-gun nests on a hillside and to destroy them.  The hill was then only known
by number; it is now called York Hill.

They were to climb the hill and come down over the crest, as in this way they would get behind
the German machine-guns.  Sergeant Bernard Early with sixteen men was ordered to undertake
the task.  Corporal York was one of the men.  At the start they were observed and were caught
by German fire from three directions.  Six of the small company were killed and three wounded,
leaving Corporal York with seven privates to advance up the hillside.

They succeeded in reaching the crest of the hill, although machine-gun bullets were constantly
whipping about them, usually however over their heads in the branches.  They came upon an old
trench and followed it over the brow of the hill, when suddenly they saw two Germans ahead
of them.  They fired on the Germans; one ran and escaped, the other surrendered.  Going on,
they soon discovered a couple of dozen Germans gathered about a small hut beside a stream which
ran through the valley below.  The Americans opened fire.  The Germans dropped their guns,
threw up their hands, and yelled, "Kamerad!  Kamerad!"  This meant they had surrendered.  Among
them was the major in command.

Some of York's seven men were assigned to guard the prisoners and had assembled them, when
a hail of machine-gun bullets came from the hillside directly in front of them and across the
brook.  Every one, Germans included, fell flat on the ground.  The Americans had indeed come
over the hilltop down behind the German machine-guns, but the gunners had now turned them squarely
around and were sending a rain of bullets upon the Americans.  They avoided firing upon their
German comrades and thus the American privates guarding them were comparatively safe.  Corporal
York was on the hill above the prisoners and it was difficult for the gunners to hit him without
killing or injuring some of their own men.  A well-aimed rifle or pistol shot might have done
it, however.

He had fallen into a path and was somewhat protected by the rise on the side toward the German
guns.  From here, lying flat upon his face, he coolly aimed his rifle and picked off German
after German, after every shot calling upon those left to come down and surrender.

His comrades could not assist him, for those who were not with the German prisoners were so
situated that to show themselves meant instant death.

Seeing York must be taken at any cost, a German lieutenant and seven men sprang up from behind
one of the machine-guns, only about one hundred feet distant, and charged upon the red-headed
American who was fighting a whole company.  The officer who ordered the Germans to charge knew
of course that some of them would be killed, but he was sure the remaining ones would capture
or kill the American; but York, the man from Tennessee, who was not sure at one time that it
was right to fight, did not lose his coolness, his courage, or his skill with the automatic
pistol, and a German lieutenant and seven German privates fell before his unerring aim.

Then the German commander offered to surrender, and Corporal York and his seven American privates
escorted one hundred and thirty-two German prisoners back to the American lines.  About forty
of these were added to the original number by the capture of another German machine-gun nest
on the way back.

Corporal York showed the extreme modesty which is characteristic of very brave men, in not
mentioning his exploit when he reached his own battalion headquarters.  The prisoners had been
delivered at another, and it was only by accident that York's superior officers learned of
it later.

When Sergeant York returned to America, he was received with great pride by the Tennessee Society
of New York City, and was granted his first wish to talk over the long-distance telephone with
his old mother in Tennessee.  He was taken to see the New York Stock Exchange where business
was suspended for half an hour while the members cheered him. Thousands of persons on the streets
recognized him and crowded around the automobile in which he rode so that the police had to
clear a path for the car.

At the banquet given in his honor at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel, generals, admirals, noted bankers,
and members of Congress united in his praise.  During the dinner, Sergeant York was unanimously
elected an honorary life-member of the Tennessee Society.

From New York, he went to Washington, where he was similarly received because of these and
other acts of heroism which distinguish him as one of the great soldiers of the World War.
After being honorably discharged, he returned to the Tennessee Mountains to marry the girl
who had been waiting for him to return from the war.  The wedding which took place in a humble
mountain home was attended by thousands of people from all over the state.  The Governor of
Tennessee, a former judge of the district, performed the ceremony, after which York and his
bride were his guests at the Executive Mansion in Nashville, where a public reception was given
in his honor.

Through these tributes to Sergeant York the people of the United States attempted to show their
true appreciation and admiration of the courage and fortitude of the non-commissioned officer.

PRONOUNCING VOCABULARY

  After-Days

  When the last gun has long withheld
    Its thunder, and its mouth is sealed,
  Strong men shall drive the furrow straight
    On some remembered battlefield.

  Untroubled they shall hear the loud
    And gusty driving of the rains,
  And birds with immemorial voice
    Sing as of old in leafy lanes.

  The stricken, tainted soil shall be
    Again a flowery paradise--
  Pure with the memory of the dead
    And purer for their sacrifice.

  ERIC CHILMAN