No. 238.]
SATURDAY, MAY 20. 1854.           465
  The Legend of the Seven Sisters                              465

  MINOR NOTES:--Coincidences--The English Liturgy--
  "To jump for joy"--"What is Truth?"--Abolition of Government
  Patronage                                                    466

  MINOR QUERIES:--"One New Year's Day"--Greek denounced by the
  Monks--Pliny's Dentistry--J. Farrington, R.A.--Henry
  Crewkerne of Exeter--Dr. Johnson--Latin "Dante"--Ralph
  Bosvill, of Bradbourn, Kent--Major-General Wolfe--Custom at
  University College, Oxford--"Old Dominion"--"Wise men
  labour," &c.                                                 467

  MINOR QUERIES WITH ANSWERS:--Dame Hester Temple--Samuel
  White--Heralds' College--Pope                                468

  REPLIES:--
  Blanco White's Sonnet, by S. W. Singer                       469
  Goloshes                                                     470
  Consonants in Welsh, by Thomas O'Coffey, &c.                 471
  Songs of Degrees (Ascents), by T. J. Buckton                 473
  The Screw Propeller                                          473
  Amontillado Sherry                                           474
  Recent Curiosities of Literature                             475
  Roland the Brave, by F. M. Middleton, &c.                    475

  PHOTOGRAPHIC CORRESPONDENCE:--
  Recovery of Silver                                           476

  REPLIES TO MINOR QUERIES:--Ashes of "Lignites"--Old Rowley--
  "Bachelors of every Station"--Mousehunt--Value of Money in
  the Seventeenth Century--Grammars for Public Schools--Classic
  Authors and the Jews--Hand-bells at Funerals--"Warple-way"--
  Medal of Chevalier St. George--Shakspeare's Inheritance--
  Cassock--Tailless Cats--Names of Slaves--Heraldic--Solar
  Annual Eclipse of 1263--Brissot de Warville--"Le Compère
  Mathieu"--Etymology of "Awkward"--Life and Death--Shelley's
  "Prometheus Unbound"--"Three Crowns and a Sugar-loaf"--
  Stanza in "Childe Harold"--Errors in Punctuation--Waugh
  of Cumberland--"Could we with ink," &c.                      477

  MISCELLANEOUS:--
  Books and Old Volumes Wanted                                 482
  Notices to Correspondents                                    483

       *       *       *       *       *

Now ready, No. VII. (for May), price 2s. 6d., published Quarterly.

Vol. I., 8vo., pp. 436, cloth 10s. 6d., is also ready.

JOHN RUSSELL SMITH, 36. Soho Square, London.

       *       *       *       *       *

No. II of JOHN RUSSELL SMITH'S OLD BOOK CIRCULAR is published this Day: containing 1200 Choice,
Useful, and Curious Books at very moderate prices. It may be had Gratis on application, or
sent by Post on Receipt of a postage label to frank it.

J. R. SMITH, 36. Soho Square, London.

       *       *       *       *       *

This Day, fcp. 8vo., 5s.

DANTE'S DIVINE COMEDY.--The First Part.--Hell. Translated in the Metre of the Original, with
Notes, by THOMAS BROOKSBANK, M.A., Cambridge.

London: JOHN W. PARKER & SON, West Strand.

       *       *       *       *       *

This Day, 8vo., 1s.

A DIALOGUE ON THE PLURALITY OF WORLDS: being a Supplement to the Essay on that Subject.

Also, 8vo., 8s.

OF THE PLURALITY OF WORLDS: An Essay.

London: JOHN W. PARKER & SON, West Strand.

       *       *       *       *       *

This Day, Seventh and Cheaper Edition, with numerous Illustrations, 2s. 6d.

DOMESTICATED ANIMALS. By MARY ROBERTS.

By the same Author, Third Edition, with Illustrations, 3s. 6d., gilt edges.

WILD ANIMALS.

London: JOHN W. PARKER & SON, West Strand.

       *       *       *       *       *

ARUNDEL SOCIETY.--The Publication of the Fourth Year (1852-3), consisting of Eight Wood Engravings
by MESSRS. DALZIEL, from Mr. W. Oliver Williams' Drawings after GIOTTO'S Frescos at PADUA,
is now ready; and Members who have not paid their Subscriptions are requested to forward them
to the Treasurer by Post-Office Order, payable at the Charing Cross Office.

  JOHN J. ROGERS,
  Treasurer and Hon. Sec.

13. & 14. Pall Mall East. March, 1854.

       *       *       *       *       *

WORKS JUST PUBLISHED BY JOHN HENRY JACKSON.

       *       *       *       *       *

Now ready, Second Thousand, post 8vo., cloth, 6s.

GRATITUDE: an Exposition of the 103rd Psalm. By the REV. JOHN STEVENSON, Vicar of Patrixbourne-with-Bridge,
Canterbury; Author of "Christ on the Cross," and "The Lord our Shepherd."

In fcp. 8vo., Second Thousand, price 2s. 6d.

REDEEMING LOVE. By W. B. MACKENZIE, M.A., Incumbent of St. James', Holloway.

In fcp. 8vo., cloth, with Portrait, 3s. 6d.

THE BUD OF PROMISE: Memoir of Eliza H. M. Groeme. By the REV. D. Pitcairn, Author of "Perfect
Peace," &c.

In fcp. 8vo., with Engraving, price 3s. 6d.

HESTER FLEMING: The Good Seed, and its certain Fruit. By MRS. WARD.

In fcp. 8vo., with Portrait, Twenty-fourth   Thousand, 2s. 6d.

PERFECT PEACE. Letters Memorial of the late J. W. Hawell. By the REV. D. PITCAIRN.

In 18mo., Third Thousand, cloth, 1s. 6d.

MARRIED LIFE: its Duties, Trials, and Joys. By W. B. MACKENZIE, M.A.

By the same Author,

In 18mo., cloth, price 1s. 6d.

THE DWELLINGS OF THE RIGHTEOUS.

Publishing monthly, 4d.; Quarterly Parts, 1s.

BIBLE CHARACTERS. Five Numbers already published. By W. B. MACKENZIE, M.A.

In 24mo., Eleventh Thousand, price Twopence.

POOR LETTER "H;" its Use and Abuse, addressed to the Million. By the HON. H. H.

In 24mo., price Twopence.

TRUE COURTESY; its Want and Value; a Chapter for all. By SIR JOHN COURTEOUS, KT.

London: JOHN HENRY JACKSON, 21. Paternoster Row.

       *       *       *       *       *

{462}

CHURCH REFORM LEAGUE.--Founded for the purpose of effecting a thorough Conservative Reformation
in the Government of the Church.

Gentlemen willing to co-operate are requested to communicate with

CHARLES HOPE, ESQ., 33. LANSDOWNE ROAD NORTH, KENSINGTON PARK, NOTTING HILL, LONDON.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHURCH REFORM.--Every alternate TUESDAY is published, price Sixpence stamped, THE COURIER AND
CHURCH REFORM GAZETTE, advocating an immediate Reformation in the Church.

For the Bill of the Reform League see "THE COURIER."

OFFICE, 16. GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

       *       *       *       *       *

REVIEW OF THE PUBLISHING SYSTEM.--For the above see No. 6. of "The Courier and Church Reform
Gazette." Every Author should read it.

OFFICE, 16. GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

       *       *       *       *       *

Just published, price 7s. 6d.

ERASTIANISM AND THE CHURCH OF ENGLAND SINCE THE REFORMATION. By the REV. J. R. PRETYMAN, late
Vicar of Aylesbury, Bucks.

London: HOPE & CO., 16. Great Marlborough Street.

       *       *       *       *       *

IMPORTANT TO AUTHORS.--NEW PUBLISHING ARRANGEMENTS.

HOPE & CO., Publishers, 16. Great Marlborough Street, London, CHARGE NO COMMISSION FOR PUBLISHING
WORKS PRINTED BY THEM until the Author has been refunded his original outlay. They would also
state that they print in the first style, GREATLY UNDER THE USUAL CHARGES; while their Publishing
Arrangements enable them to promote the interests of all Works entrusted to their charge. Estimates,
and every particular, furnished gratuitously in course of Post.

       *       *       *       *       *

HOPE & CO. HAVE JUST PUBLISHED.

1. THE HISTORY OF ENGLAND, in RHYME, from the Conquest to the Reformation. Price 5s.

2. CHAPTERS for SCHOOL READING and HOME THOUGHTS; a Sequel to the "Village School Reading Book."
By the Authoress of the "Village Schoolmistress' Assistant." Price 1s., or 10s. per dozen.

3. SACRED HISTORY, with a Compendium of Ecclesiastical History, from the Death of Christ to
the Accession of Constantine. Edited by the REV. J. C. CHAMBERS. Price 5s.

4. THOUGHTS ON SELF-CULTURE. Addressed to Women. By MARIA G. GREY, and her sister EMILY SHIRREFF,
Authors of "Passion and Principle," and "Letters from Spain and Barbary." Second Edition. Price
7s. 6d.

5. NEW SYSTEM OF FIXING ARTIFICIAL TEETH. Illustrated. By A. FITZPATRICK, Surgeon-Dentist,
28. Lower Grosvenor Street. Price 2s.

This work has been pronounced by the press as the best popular exposition of the Art of Dentistry,
and Mr. Fitzpatrick as one of the ablest Practitioners of the day.

London: HOPE & Co., 16. Great Marlborough Street.

       *       *       *       *       *

LIBRARY OF VALUABLE BOOKS.

MR. BENTLEY will SELL by AUCTION, in the Lecture Room of the Natural History Society, at Worcester,
on Tuesday and Wednesday, the 30th and 31st Days of MAY, 1854 (instead of Tuesday the 23rd,
as previously announced), commencing each morning at Eleven o'clock, A VALUABLE LIBRARY of
RARE and CHOICE BOOKS, including one Copy of the First Folio Edition of Shakspeare, London,
1623, and two varying Copies of the Second Folio, London, 1632, with many valuable Black-letter
Books in Divinity and History.

Catalogues may be had at the Office of the Auctioneer, 9. Foregate Street, Worcester, one week
previous to the Sale.

London: WHITTAKER & CO., Ave Maria Lane.

       *       *       *       *       *

Just published, price 1s., or free by post for 16 Stamps,

A MEMOIR OF THE POET DR. WILLIAM BROOME, the Friend and Assistant of Pope. By T. W. BARLOW,
ESQ., F.L.S.

London: KENT & CO. Manchester: BURGE.

       *       *       *       *       *

MUSINGS OF A MUSICIAN. By HENRY C. LUNN. Just published, a new edition, whole cloth, boards,
gilt, price 3s. This entertaining work consists of a Series of Popular Sketches, Illustrative
of Musical Matters and Musical People.

    "They can scarcely fail to be appreciated even by the most unmusical
    reader..."--Westminster Review.

    "These musings give us the impression of versatile ingenuity, and what
    is better, ingenuousness on the part of the writer."--Athenæum.

London: ROBERT COCKS & CO., New Burlington Street (Publishers to the Queen); SIMPKIN, MARSHALL,
& CO.; WHITTAKER & CO.; and all Booksellers and Musicsellers.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE FAVOURITE BALLADS OF THE SEASON are John Parry's Sweet Vesper Bells of Ancona, illustrated,
2s. 6d.; and Have still some kind Word for Me, 2s. Franz Abt's May Song, 2s.; Morning, 2s.
6d.; Evening 2s.; and the Earth it loves Rain, 2s. Kucken's The Star, 2s.; Sweet May, 2s.;
and his celebrated song, The Tear, 2s. Pressel's A Youth from the Summit, 2s., and When two
fond Hearts, 2s. Cherry's The Dreams of Youth, illustrated, 2s. 6d., and Like the Song of Birds,
illustrated, 2s. 6d. Eliza Cook's Song of the Sailor Boy, music by Rodwell, 2s. Harper's Truth
in Absence, 2s. Miss Fricker's Fading Away, 2s. Barker's The Lime Blossoms, illustrated, 2s.
6d.; and Glover's (S.) Annie o' the Banks o' Dee, illustrated, 2s. 6d., &c.

London: ROBERT COCKS & CO., New Burlington Street, Music Publishers to the Queen.

       *       *       *       *       *

PHOTOGRAPHIC INSTITUTION.

THE EXHIBITION OF PHOTOGRAPHS, by the most eminent English and Continental Artists, is OPEN
DAILY from Ten till Five. Free Admission.

                                            £  s. d.
  A Portrait by Mr. Talbot's Patent
    Process                                 1  1  0
  Additional Copies (each)                  0  5  0
  A Coloured Portrait, highly finished
    (small size)                            3  3  0
  A Coloured Portrait, highly finished
    (larger size)                           5  5  0

Miniatures, Oil Paintings, Water-Colour, and Chalk Drawings, Photographed and Coloured in imitation
of the Originals. Views of Country Mansions, Churches, &c., taken at a short notice.

Cameras, Lenses, and all the necessary Photographic Apparatus and Chemicals, are supplied,
tested, and guaranteed.

Gratuitous Instruction is given to Purchasers of Sets of Apparatus.

PHOTOGRAPHIC INSTITUTION, 168. New Bond Street.

       *       *       *       *       *

ROSS & SONS' INSTANTANEOUS HAIR DYE, without Smell, the best and cheapest extant.--ROSS & SONS
have several private apartments devoted entirely to Dyeing the Hair, and particularly request
a visit, especially from the incredulous, as they will undertake to dye a portion of their
hair, without charging, of any colour required, from the lightest brown to the darkest black,
to convince them of its effect.

Sold in cases at 3s. 6d., 5s. 6d., 10s., 15s., and 20s. each case. Likewise wholesale to the
Trade by the pint, quart, or gallon.

Address, ROSS & SONS, 119. and 120. Bishopsgate Street, Six Doors from Cornhill, London.

       *       *       *       *       *

ONE THOUSAND BEDSTEADS TO CHOOSE FROM.--HEAL & SON'S Stock comprises handsomely Japanned and
Brass-mounted Iron Bedsteads, Children's Cribs and Cots of new and elegant designs, Mahogany,
Birch, and Walnut-tree Bedsteads, of the soundest and best Manufacture, many of them fitted
with Furnitures, complete. A large Assortment of Servants' and Portable Bedsteads. They have
also every variety of Furniture for the complete furnishing of a Bed Room.

HEAL & SON'S ILLUSTRATED AND PRICED CATALOGUE OF BEDSTEADS AND BEDDING, sent Free by Post.

HEAL & SON, 196. Tottenham Court Road.

       *       *       *       *       *

{463}

LONDON, SATURDAY, MAY 20, 1854.

Notes.

A LEADER FROM A FOREIGN NEWSPAPER: THE NEW RUSSIAN MANIFESTO.

Mention was recently made, in Vol. ix., p. 218., of the valuable character of many of the leading
articles in the continental journals, and a wish expressed that translations of them were more
frequently communicated in our own papers to English readers. The great newspapers of this
country are too rich in varied talent and worldwide resources of their own, to make it worth
their while in ordinary times to pay much attention to information and disquisition from foreign
politicians, on subjects of the day; but the infinite importance to England, and to the world,
of the present warlike struggle, renders it a matter of corresponding weight to know how far
the foreign press, in the great centres of movement and intelligence, stand affected to Great
Britain. Perhaps, therefore, as a specimen of this kind of writing, you will for once admit,
among your varied contents, the following article from the Kölnische Zeitung of May 4:

    "While in England, as a preparation for war, a day of humiliation and
    prayer is held, on which the Clergy exhort the people to look into
    their own breasts, and to discover and forsake those sins which might
    provoke God's punishments; while the most powerful nation of the world
    commences war by humbling itself before God, on the part of Russia a
    new manifesto appears, the arrogance of which can scarcely be exceeded
    by anything human. The Czar speaks as if he were the representative of
    God upon earth. His affair is God's affair. He carries on war for God,
    and for His only begotten Son, Jesus Christ our Saviour. God is for
    him, who can be against him!

    "Such a document has not proceeded from the cabinet of any European
    power since the Middle Ages. It exceeds all which even Russian
    diplomacy has accomplished, in its zeal for Christianity, during the
    last century. For it is worthy of notice that nowhere is religion so
    much publicly talked about, as in the place where least of it remains,
    among the higher classes in St. Petersburgh. Religion there is inter
    instrumenta regni. When Catherine II. permitted her husband Peter III.
    to be imprisoned, in order to rob him of his throne and life, the cause
    of this was communicated to the Russian people on July 9, 1762, as
    follows:--'First of all, the foundation of your orthodox Greek religion
    has been shaken and its principles are drawing near to a total
    overthrow; so that we ought to dread exceedingly lest we should see a
    change in the true ruling faith transmitted from antiquity in Russia,
    and a foreign religion introduced.' So wrote Catherine II., 'the
    greatest of the queens, and of the ----,' the friend of Voltaire, the
    greatest lady-freethinker of her age. But she wrote still
    farther:--'Secondly, the honour of Russia as a state, which has been
    brought to the highest pinnacle of her victorious arms with the loss of
    so much blood, is actually trodden under foot through the
    newly-concluded peace with her bitterest enemy.' And who is this
    bitterest enemy of the orthodox Russia? The King of Prussia, Frederick
    II.! Yes, the King of Prussia was once declared to be the bitterest
    enemy of orthodox Russia; and nothing stands in the way but at some
    future time he may again be declared to be so, just as at the decree of
    the incorporation of the provinces of Preutzen and Posen. The
    politicians of St. Petersburgh know that the Russian people, living on
    in animal dulness, are susceptible of no other intellectual impression
    except a religious one; and so without reflection, the cross is torn
    from the high altar, and used as a military signal. Religion was
    employed as a pretext, in order to lead the unhappy Poles step by step
    into ruin; and Russia was just so employed in Turkey, when the
    'heathen' undertook to disturb her in her Christian work. Rise up,
    therefore, orthodox nation, and fight for the true Christian faith!

    "We know not whether such a manifesto is sufficient to lead the
    Russians willingly, like a devoutly believing flock, in the name of
    Jesus Christ to the battle-field; and to perish in a war projected for
    a worldly purpose, to obtain the inheritance of the 'sick man.' But we
    do know that the manifesto will make no one believe throughout
    civilised Europe in Russia's holy views. Nations which have learned to
    think cannot help immediately perceiving the contradiction which
    prevails in this manifesto. First of all the struggle is represented as
    religious, and immediately after as political. 'England and France' it
    says, 'make war on Russia, in order to deprive her of a part of her
    territory.' The only logical connexion between the two modes of
    statement consists in the words--'their object is to cause our
    fatherland to descend from the powerful position to which the hand of
    the Almighty has raised it.' And thereupon is mentioned 'the holy
    purpose which has been assigned to Russia by divine providence.' And
    this holy purpose has been no secret for a long time. 'According to the
    design of providence,' wrote Peter the Great, 'the Russian people are
    called to universal dominion over Europe for the future.'

    "Such a future cannot longer be averted from Europe, except by common
    efforts. Prussia has come to an understanding, as to the object in
    view, with the other powers; and when an object or purpose is sought to
    be attained, the means must also be provided. To make an impression by
    words and peaceful means, is quite out of the question, after this
    imperial pastoral letter, which proclaims war in the name of God and of
    Jesus Christ. Force can only he repelled by force. It was not our wish
    to compel our government prematurely. With reference to Prussia's
    position, the warlike interference of our troops was not desired until
    England and France had concluded a firm alliance between themselves,
    and with Turkey; and had commenced the war in earnest. Now, when all
    this has taken place, and the thunder of cannon is roaring over sea and
    land; now, when Austria, which conceals within herself so many more
    dangers, prepares, with manly determination, to advance; what excuse
    can Prussia {464} have, called upon by right to the leadership; what
    excuse can she make to herself for remaining behind? In the Vienna
    protocol of April 9, Prussia has pledged herself, beyond what we could
    have dared to hope, towards the Western Powers: in the treaty with
    Austria of April 20, Prussia has bound herself, in certain
    eventualities that may occur at any moment, to a warlike support of
    Austria. Is it not, therefore, high time for Prussia to arouse herself
    from her lethargy, in order to undertake the support contracted for by
    treaty? If history teaches anywhere an evident lesson, Prussia will
    find it in her own past history. Once before Prussia promised to help
    Austria, and was not able to perform her engagement. All the misfortune
    by which we were attacked in 1806 is to be ascribed to Prussia not
    having completed her preparations in 1805, and to her not appearing in
    the field before the battle of Austerlitz. It was reported lately to be
    the saying of a brave general, that when he heard the enemies'
    batteries firing, it always seemed to him that he heard his own name
    called out. Does not Prussia also hear her own name loudly pronounced,
    in those cannon-shots fired off in the Baltic and Black Sea for the
    public law of nations by Europe's brave champions? By what means did
    the great Elector establish the honour of the Prussian name, except by
    bravely taking the field, as a model of German princes, against the
    superior force of Louis XIV.? The policy, to which the Prussian
    government has again pledged itself, will be unanimously approved of by
    the Prussian people. The abuse which Russia has made of the name of
    Religion can deceive none, but such as are willing to be deceived.
    Catholic Christendom, with the Pope and the dignitaries of the Catholic
    Church in England and France at its head, have declared which side in
    this struggle is right, and which is wrong; and Righteousness is God's
    earthly name! Not less have the noblest and most pious Protestants
    loudly raised their voices as witnesses to the truth, and against the
    common oppressor of every Christian church, even his own; Religion,
    called upon for aid, denies it to Russia; and political science has
    long since pronounced her judgment, that Russia's superiority must be
    put an end to by a general opposition. If Prussia would but seize the
    opportunity, and proceed in the same path with Austria, Russia's
    ambition might be tamed by united Europe in one successful campaign.
    Now is the favourable moment for Prussia; and if it is not taken
    advantage of, generations unborn may have cause to rue it."

ALPHA.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE LAUNCH OF THE "PRINCE ROYAL" IN 1610.

October 20, 1608, Mr. Phineas Pette commenced the "Prince Royal," which was launched in 1610.
The keel of this "most goodly shippe for warre" was 114 feet long, and the cross-beam 44 feet
in length, and she carried three score and four pieces of great ordnance, and was of the burden
of 1400 tons. On the 8th of May, 1609, the king presided at the trial of Pette at Woolwich
for insufficiency, during which Pette sat on his knees, "baited by the great lord (Northampton)
and his bandogs;" and after the ship had been inspected by the king and his party, Mr. Pette
was acquitted of the charges brought against him. The prince visited the ship on the 30th of
January, 1609, 25th of April, 18th of June, and again the following day, with the king, and
on the 24th of September it was launched. It is stated that the garnishing of the ship began
between Easter and Michaelmas, and that the number of nobles, gentry, and citizens, resorting
continually to Woolwich to see it, was incredible. On the 9th of September, divers London maids,
with a little boy with them, visited the ship; the boy fell down into the hold, and died the
same night from the effects of his fall, being the first accident during the building. About
the middle of the month, the ship being ready to be placed on the ways, twelve choice master
carpenters of his Majesty's navy were sent for from Chatham to assist in "her striking and
launching;" on the 18th she was safely set upon her ways, and on the 26th was visited by the
French ambassador. Preparations were made in the yard for the reception of the king, queen,
royal children, ladies, and the council; and on the evening of the 23rd, a messenger was sent
from Theobalds, desiring the ship to be searched, lest any disaffected persons might have bored
holes privily in her bottom. On Monday 24th, the dock gates were opened; but the wind blowing
hard from the south-west, it proved a very bad tide. The king came from Theobalds, though he
had been very little at ease with a scouring, taken with surfeiting by eating grapes, the prince
and most of the lords of the council attending him. The queen arrived after dinner, and the
lord admiral gave commandment to heave taught the crabs and screws, though Pette says he had
little hope to launch by reason the wind overblew the tide; "yet the ship started and had launched,
but the dock gates pent her in so straight, that she stuck fast between them, by reason the
ship was nothing lifted by the tide, as we expected she would; and the great lighter, by unadvised
counsel, being cut off the stern, the ship settled so hard upon the ground, that there was
no possibility of launching that tide; besides which there was such a multitude of people got
into the ship, that one could scarce stir by another."

"The king was much grieved at the frustrate of his expectation," and returned to Greenwich
at five o'clock with the queen and her train; the prince staid a good while after conferring
with the lord admiral and Mr. Pette, and then rode off to Greenwich, with a promise to return
shortly after midnight. The night was moonlight, but shortly after midnight became very stormy,
which Mr. Pette says made him "doubt that there were {465} some indirect working among our
enemies to dash our launching."

The prince however arrived at the yard, went on board a little before two a. m., when the word
being given to get all taught, the ship went away without any straining of screws or tackles,
till she came clear afloat in the middle of the channel. He then describes the christening
of her by the prince, by the name of the "Prince Royal"; and while warping to her mooring,
his royal highness went down to the platform of the cock-room, where the ship's beer stood
for ordinary company, and there finding an old can without a lid, drew it full of beer himself,
and drank it off to the lord admiral, and caused him with the rest of the attendants to do
the like. The hawsers laid ashore for landfasts had been treacherously cut, but without doing
any injury to the ship. The prince left for Greenwich at nine a. m.

J. H. P.

       *       *       *       *       *

"NOTES AND QUERIES ON THE ORMULUM, BY DR. MONICKE" (Programm der Handels-Lehranstalt zu Leipzig,
1853).

Under the above title, Dr. Monicke has published what are considered by a foreign critic some
valuable observations on the admirable Oxford edition (by Dr. Meadows White) of The Ormulum,
an Anglo-Saxon work, now first edited from the original MS. in the Bodleian Library. The attention
of the readers of "N. & Q.," who are occupied in the study of the Anglo-Saxon, with its cognate
dialects, and direct descendant, will be doubly attracted by a title with which they are so
familiar, and which is associated with some of the happiest and most peaceful moments of their
life. The title of the Essay (which I have not yet seen, and which appears to be written in
English) seems to be entirely the choice of the author, and must be somewhat flattering to
the Editor of the original "N. & Q."

J. M.

Oxford.

    [We have received, with something like a sense of neglected duty, this
    notice of The Ormulum, now first edited from the Original Manuscript
    in the Bodleian; with Notes and a Glossary by Robert Meadows White,
    D.D., late Fellow of St. Mary Magdalene College, and formerly Professor
    of Anglo-Saxon in the University of Oxford, 2 vols. 8vo. The fact is,
    we have long intended to call attention to this book, alike creditable
    to the scholastic acquirements of Dr. White, and to the authorities of
    the Oxford press; but have from week to week postponed doing so, that
    we might enter at some length into the history of The Ormulum, and a
    notice of the labour of its editor. In the mean time Dr. White's
    labours have received from foreign scholars that recognition which his
    countrymen have been too tardy in offering.--ED. "N. & Q."]

       *       *       *       *       *

THE LEGEND OF THE SEVEN SISTERS.

Will the Editor of "N. & Q.," or any of his correspondents, kindly inform me of the true circumstances
from which the following legend has sprung? The locality which was the scene of the tragedy
is the little village of Ballybunion, situated within a few miles of Kerry Head. The scenery
around is of the wildest and most striking description. Frowning, rugged cliffs, rising abruptly
out of the water to the height of over one hundred feet, and perforated with numerous caves,
into which the ocean rushes with fearful fury in winter,--for it is a stormy coast, and rarely
does a month pass without beholding some dead, putrified body washed ashore; while inland,
a barren, uncultivated plain, consisting mostly of bog, stretches away to nearly the foot of
the Reeks, which, looming in the distance, seem to rear their giant masses even to the sky,
and form, as it were, an impenetrable barrier between the coast and the interior. On the brink
of one of those precipices we have mentioned, there stands the ruins of a castle, seemingly
of great antiquity. Nothing now remains but the basement storey, and that seems as if it would
be able to withstand the war of winds and waves for hundreds of years longer. According to
the legend, this castle was inhabited by a gallant chieftain at the period of the incursions
of the Danes, and who was the father of seven blooming daughters. He was himself a brave warrior,
animated with the greatest hatred against the Ostmen, who, at that period, were laying every
part of Erin waste. His sword never rested in its sheath, and day and night his light gallies
cruised about the coast on the watch for any piratical marauder who might turn his prow thither.
One day a sail was observed on the horizon; it came nearer and nearer, and the pirate standard
was distinguished waving from its mast-head. Immediately surrounded by the Irish ships, it
was captured after a desperate resistance. Those that remained of the crew were slaughtered
and thrown into the sea, with the exception of the captain and his six brothers, who were reserved
for a more painful death. Conveyed to the fortress, their wounds were dressed, and they were
allowed the free range of the castle. Here, gradually a love sprung between them and the seven
Irish maidens, who yielded to their ardent protestations, and agreed to fly with them to Denmark.
Everything was arranged for the voyage, and one fearfully stormy night in winter was chosen
for the attempt. Not a single star shone in the sky, the cold blast came sweeping from the
ocean, the rain fell in torrents, and the water roared and raged with terrific violence amid
the rocky caverns. Escaping down from the battlement by a rope-ladder, they discovered to their
horror, that on reaching the ground they were surrounded by armed men. Not a word was uttered;
but they {466} well knew into whose hands they had fallen. Conducted again within the fortress,
they found themselves face to face with their injured father. One deadly glance of hatred he
cast on the prisoners, and, muttering some few words to one of his attendants, he pointed towards
his daughters. The man, on receiving the command, recoiled a few paces, transfixed with horror;
and then he advanced nearer, and seemed as if remonstrating with him. But the parent's face
assumed an absolutely demoniac expression; and more peremptorily repeating his order, he stalked
out of the room. And now commenced a fearful scene. The lovers were torn from each other's
arms, and the women were brought forth again. The storm had grown more violent, and the spray
was dashing far over the cliff, whilst the vivid flashes of lightning afforded a horrible illumination
to the dreary scene. Proceeding along the brink of the precipice, they at length came to a
chasm which resembled somewhat the crater of a volcano, as it was completely closed, with the
exception of the opening at the top, and one small aperture below, through which the sea rushed
with terrible violence. The rolling of the waters sounded fearfully on the ear of those around,
and now at length the sisters divined their fate. One by one they were hurled into the boiling
flood: one wild shriek, the billows closed again, and all was over. What the fate of their
lovers was, the legend says not. The old castle has crumbled into ruins--the chieftain sleeps
in an unknown grave, his very name forgotten; but still the sad ending of the maidens is remembered,
and even unto this day the cavern is denominated the "Cave of the Seven Sisters." Such is the
above legend as it still exists amongst the peasantry, and any of your contributors would extremely
oblige by informing me of the name of the Irish leader.

GEORGE OF MUNSTER.

Queen's College, Cork.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Notes.

Coincidences.--

 "Jejunus raro stomachus vulgaria temnit."--Hor. Sat. 2.

 "A hungry dog eats dirty pudding."

 "Dum vitant stulti vitia, in contraria currunt."--Hor. Sat. 1.

 "He misses one post, and runs his head against t'other."

 "[Greek: Chelidôn ear ou poiei]."--Arist. Eth., i. 7.

 "One swallow don't make a summer."

J. H. B.

The English Liturgy.--

    "It is deserving of notice, that although Dr. Beattie had been brought
    up a member of the Presbyterian Church of Scotland, and regularly
    attended her worship and ordinances when at Aberdeen, he yet gave the
    most decided preference to the Church of England, generally attending
    the service of that Church when anywhere from home, and constantly when
    at Peterhead. He spoke with enthusiasm of the beauty, simplicity, and
    energy of the English Liturgy, especially of the Litany, which he
    declared to be the finest piece of uninspired composition in any
    language." Life of Dr. Beattie, by Sir W. Forbes, Bart., vol. iii.
    p. 168. note.

J. M.

Oxford.

"To jump for joy."--This expression, now most often used figuratively, was probably in the
olden time a plain and literal description of an actual fact. The Anglo-Norman Poem on the
Conquest of Ireland by Henry II., descriptive of events which occurred at the close of the
twelfth century, informs us (at p. 53.) that one of the English knights, named Maurice de Prendergast,
being desirous of returning with his followers to Wales, was impeded in his march by "les traitres
de Weyseford;" and that this so much provoked him, that he tendered his services to the King
of Ossory, who--

 "De la novele esteit heistez,
  E de joie saili à pés."

This expression, "saili à pés," is translated in the Glossary "rose upon feet;" but the more
correct rendering of it appears to me to be that of jumping or dancing for joy.

JAMES F. FERGUSON.

Dublin.

"What is Truth?"--Bacon begins his "Essay of Truth"

There is a similar passage in Bishop Andrews's sermon Of the Resurrection, preached in 1613:

    "Pilate asked, Quid est veritas? And then some other matter took him
    in the head, and so up he rose, and went his way, before he had his
    answer; he deserved never to find what truth was. And such is our
    seeking mostwhat, seldom or never seriously, but some question that
    comes cross our brain for the present, some quid est veritas? So
    sought as if that we sought were as good lost as found. Yet this we
    would fain have so for seeking, but it will not be."

Perhaps Bacon heard the bishop preach (the sermon was at Whitehall); and if so, the passage
in Andrews will explain the word "jesting" to mean, not scoffing, but asking without serious
purpose of acquiring information.

J. A. H.

Abolition of Government Patronage.--The following passage, from Dr. Middleton's Dedication
of the Life of Cicero to Lord Keeper Hervey, is {467} interesting as showing the enlightened
sentiments of an eminent scholar a hundred years ago when addressing a minister of the crown:

    "Human nature has ever been the same in all ages and nations, and owes
    the difference of its improvements to a difference only of culture, and
    of the rewards proposed to its industry; where these are the most amply
    provided, there we shall always find the most numerous and shining
    examples of human perfection. In old Rome, the public honours were laid
    open to the virtue of every citizen; which, by raising them in their
    turns to the commands of that mighty empire, produced a race of nobles
    superior even to kings. This was a prospect that filled the soul of the
    ambitious and roused every facility of mind and body to exert its
    utmost force; whereas, in modern states, men's views being usually
    confined to narrow bounds, beyond which they cannot pass, and a partial
    culture of their talents being sufficient to procure everything that
    their ambition can aspire to, a great genius has seldom either room or
    invitation to stretch itself to its full size."

ALPHA.

Oxford.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Queries.

"One New Year's Day."--An old lady used to amuse my childhood by singing a song commencing--

 "One New Year's day, as I've heard say,
  Dick mounted on his dappled grey," &c.

The rest I forget, but I should be glad to know if it is extant, and what is known of its origin,
&c.

G. WILLIAM SKYRING.

Somerset House.

Greek denounced by the Monks.--

    "Almost the time (A.D. 1530) when the monks preached in their sermons
    to the people to beware of a new tongue of late discovered, called the
    Greek, and the mother of all heresies."--Foreign Quarterly for
    October, 1842, No. 59. p. 137.

Can any of your readers give references to such passages in Monkish sermons?

CPL.

Pliny's Dentistry.--As your journal has become the repository of so many novel and interesting
facts, I trust that the following data will be found acceptable to the readers of "N. & Q."
Having had occasion, of late, to look over the works of Pliny, I was struck with the extent
to which this ancient naturalist and philosopher has carried his researches on the above subject;
as, in some editions, the Index of the article DENTES occupies several closely-printed columns.
He recommends tooth-powder (dentifricia) of hartshorn, pumice-stone, burnt nitre, Lapis Arabus,
the ashes of shells, as well as several ludicrous substances, in accordance with the mystic
prejudices of the age. Amongst the remedies for fixing (firmare) teeth, he mentions Inula,
Acetum Scillinum, Radix Lapathi sativi, vinegar; and loose teeth are to be fixed by Philidonia,
Veratrum nigrum, and a variety of other remedies, amongst which some are most rational, and
tend to prove that more attention was paid to the physiological (hygeistic) department relating
to that portion of the human body than we have been hitherto aware of, as even the most recent
works on Dentistry do not mention these facts.

GEORGE HAYES.

Conduit Street.

J. Farrington, R.A.--Having recently met with some views by J. Farrington, R.A., without a
description of the locality, I shall be obliged by your insertion of a Query respecting information
of what views were executed by this painter, with their localities, in or about the year 1789.
As I am informed that those above referred to belong to this neighbourhood, and therefore would
be invested with interest to me, I could ascertain their locality with precision.

JOHN NURSE CHADWICK.

King's Lynn.

Henry Crewkerne, of Exeter, "Captain of Dragoons, descended from Crewkerne, of Crewkerne, in
Devonshire," died at Carlow in Feb. 1664-5. Was he descended from Crewkerne of Chilhay, Dorset?
His pedigree would be very acceptable.

Y. S. M.

Dr. Johnson.--Johnson says somewhere that he never was in a tight place but once, and that
was when he had a mad bull by the tail. Had he held on, he said he would have been dragged
to death over a stubble field; while if had not held on, the bull would have gored him to death.
Now my Query is, what did Dr. Johnson do, hold on or let go?

G. M. B.

Latin "Dante."--Is there not a literal Latin prose translation of Dante, somewhat rhythmical?
Has not Stillingfleet cited it in the Origines? If so, where is its corpus? And in what form,
MS. or printed? Of metrical Latin versions there are several beside those of the Jesuit Carlo
d'Aquino and Piazza. The Query is as to the prose?

PHILIP ASKE.

Ralph Bosvill, of Bradbourn, Kent, Clerk of the Court of Wards, married first, Anne, daughter
of Sir Richard Clement, and widow of John Castillon, by whom he had five children. He married
secondly, Benedicta Skinner, by whom he had six children. This I have taken from the Visitations
of Kent. In Harl. MS. 5532.152, he is said to have had another son Ralph, "slain in Ireland."
This Ralph was his son, and I wish to discover by which wife, as the entry above-mentioned
in the {468} MSS. is of a much later date than the body of it. He had, I think, two other sons
at least, who are not in the books, namely, Godfrey and William. The name is sometimes called
"Boswell." Was the younger Ralph's wife, Mary, daughter of Alveray Copley of Batley?

Y. S. M.

Major-General Wolfe.--The following MS. is advertised for sale. Is anything known concerning it?

    "A Copy of Orders written by Major-General Woolfe; an important
    unpublished Historical MS. This valuable collection commences with
    'General Orders to be observed by a regiment on their arrival in
    Scotland, 1748.' At p. 55. begin 'Orders by Major-General Woolfe in
    America: Halifax, April 30, 1759.' They continue dated from Louisburg,
    Point Orleans, Montmorenci, Cape Rouge, &c., to the last, which is
    dated on board the Sutherland, off St. Nicholas, Sept. 12th, the day
    before the scaling the heights of Abraham; no doubt the last issued by
    Woolfe, as on that day (13th) he fell in battle. There is no clue in
    the MS. to its compiler; it consists of 103 pages 4to., beautifully
    written, with MS. Plan of Order of Battle, of the army commanded by
    General Woolfe in America, 1789. It is believed that no printed copy
    exists of these valuable papers, which are of the highest importance to
    the Historian, as a slight extract will show. Small 4to., calf.

    'Sept. 12. The second officer in
    command is gone to Montreal or St. John's, which gives reason to think
    that Governor Amherst is advancing into that colony.
    Our troops below are ready to join us; all the light infantry and tools
    are embarked at the Point of Levi, and the troops will land where the
    enemy seems least to expect it.'"

J. BALCH.

Philadelphia.

Custom at University College, Oxford.--What is the origin of the following custom observed
at this college? On every Easter Sunday the representation of a tree, dressed with evergreens
and flowers, is placed on a turf, close to the buttery, and every member there resident, as
he leaves the Hall, after dinner, chops at the tree with a cleaver. The college-cook stands
by holding a plate, in which the Master deposits half a guinea, each Fellow five shillings,
and the other members two shillings and sixpence each; this custom is called "chopping at the
tree." When was this custom instituted, and to what circumstance are we to attribute its origin?
Who presented to the chapel of this College the splendid eagle, as a lectern, which forms one
of its chief ornaments? Was it presented by Dr. Radcliffe, or does it date its origin from
the happy reign of Queen Mary?

M. A.

"Old Dominion."--It is stated in a newspaper that the term "Old Dominion," generally applied
here to the state of Virginia, originated from the following facts. During the Protectorate
of Cromwell the colony of Virginia refused to acknowledge his authority, and sent to Flanders
for Charles II. to reign over them. Charles accepted, and was about to embark, when he was
recalled to the throne of England. Upon his accession, as a reward for her loyalty, he allowed
the colony to quarter the arms of England, Ireland, and Scotland, as an independent member
of the "Old Dominion;" whence the term. What truth is there in this story?

PENN.

"Wise men labour," &c.--

On the fly-leaf of Sir Roger Twysden's copy of Stow's Annales are the following, lines, dated 1643:

   "Wise men labour, good men grieve,
    Knaves devise, and fooles believe;
    Help, Lord! and now stand to us,
  Or fooles and knaves will quite undoe us,
  Or knaves and fooles will quite undoe us."

From whence are these lines taken?

L. B. L.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Queries with Answers.

Dame Hester Temple.--"Lady Temple lived to see seven hundred of her own descendants: she had
thirteen children." I have extracted this "sea-serpent" from an extract in Burke from Fuller's
Worthies, but I am unable to refer to the original for confirmation of this astounding fact;
if true it is wonderful.

Y. S. M.

    [Fuller's amusing account of Dame Hester Temple will be found in his
    Worthies of Buckinghamshire, vol. i. p. 210. edit. 1840. He says:
    "Dame Hester Temple, daughter to Miles Sands, Esq., was born at Latmos
    in this county, and was married to Sir Thomas Temple, of Stow, Baronet.
    She had four sons and nine daughters, which lived to be married, and so
    exceedingly multiplied, that this lady saw seven hundred extracted from
    her body. Reader, I speak within compass, and have left myself a
    reserve, having bought the truth hereof by a wager I lost. Besides,
    there was a new generation of marriageable females just at her death;
    so that this aged vine may be said to wither, even when it had many
    young boughs ready to knit.

    "Had I been one of her relations, and as well enabled as most of them
    be, I would have erected a monument for her--thus designed. A fair tree
    should have been erected, the said lady and her husband lying at the
    bottom or root thereof; the heir of the family should have ascended
    both the middle and top bough thereof. On the right hand hereof her
    younger sons, {469} on the left her daughters, should, as so many
    boughs, be spread forth. Her grandchildren should have their names
    inscribed on the branches of those boughs; the great-grandchildren on
    the twigs of those branches; and the great-great-grandchildren on the
    leaves of those twigs. Such as survived her death should be done in a
    lively green, the rest (as blasted) in a pale and yellow fading colour.

    "Pliny, lib. vii. cap. 13. (who reports it as a wonder worthy the
    chronicle, that Chrispinus Hilarus, prælatâ pompâ, 'with open
    ostentation,' sacrificed in the capitol seventy-four of his children
    and children's children attending on him,) would more admire, if
    admitted to this spectacle.

    "Vives telleth us of village in Spain, of about an hundred houses,
    whereof all the inhabitants were issued from one certain old man who
    lived, when as that village was so peopled, so as the name of
    propinquity, how the youngest of the children should call him, could
    not be given.[1] 'Lingua enim nostra supra abavum non ascendit;' ('Our
    language,' saith he, meaning the Spanish, 'affords not a name above the
    great-grandfather's father'). But, had the offspring of this lady been
    contracted into one place, they were enough to have peopled a city of a
    competent proportion though her issue was not so long in succession, as
    broad in extent.

    "I confess very many of her descendants died before her death; in which
    respect she was far surpassed by a Roman matron, on which the poet thus
    epitapheth it, in her own person[2]:

     'Viginti atque novem, genitrici Callicrateæ,
        Nullius sexus mors mihi visa fuit.
      Sed centum et quinque explevi bene messibus annos,
        In tremulam baculo non subeunte manum.'

     'Twenty-nine births Callicrate I told,
      And of both sexes saw none sent to grave,
      I was an hundred and five winters old,
      Yet stay from staff my hand did never crave.'

    Thus, in all ages, God bestoweth personal felicities on some far above
    the proportion of others. The Lady Temple died A.D. 1656."]

[Footnote 1: In Comment upon 8th chapter of lib. xv. de Civitate Dei.]

[Footnote 2: Ausonius, Epitaph. Heröum, num. 34.]

Samuel White.--In Bishop Horsley's Biblical Criticism, he refers several times to a Samuel
White, whom he speaks of in terms of contempt, and calls him, in one place, "that contemptible
ape of Grotius;" and in another, "so dull a man." Query, who was this Mr. White, and what work
did he publish?

I. R. R.

    [Samuel White, M.A., was a Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge, and
    Chaplain to the Earl of Portland. His work, so severely criticised by
    Bishop Horsley, is entitled A Commentary on the Prophet Isaiah,
    wherein the literal Sense of his Prophecies is briefly explained:
    London, 4to., 1709. In his Dedication he says: "I have endeavoured to
    set in a true light one of the most difficult parts of Holy Scripture,
    following the footsteps of the learned Grotius as far as I find him in
    the right; but taking the liberty to leave him where I think him wide
    of the prophet's meaning."]

Heralds' College.--Are the books in the Heralds' College open to the public on payment of reasonable
fees?

Y. S. M.

    [The fee for a search is 5s.; that for copying of pedigrees is 6s. 8d.
    for the first, and 5s. for every other generation. A general search is
    2l. 2s. The hours of attendance are from ten till four.]

Pope.--Where, in Pope's Works, does the passage occur which is referred to as follows by Richter
in his Grönlandische Prozesse, vol. i.?

    "Pope vom Menschen (eigentlich vom Manne) sagt, 'Er tritt auf, um sich
    einmal umzusehen, und zu sterben.'"

A. E.

Aberdeen.
        Let us (since life can little more supply
        Than just to look about us, and to die)
        Expatiate free o'er all this scene of man."--Essay on Man, Epist.
            i. l. 1-5.]

       *       *       *       *       *

Replies.

BLANCO WHITE'S SONNET.

(Vol. vii., pp. 404. 486.)

This sonnet first appeared in The Bijou, an annual published by Pickering in 1828. It is entitled:

             "NIGHT AND DEATH.

  A Sonnet: dedicated to S. T. Coleridge, Esq.
  by his sincere friend Joseph Blanco White.
  Weak man!

In a letter from Coleridge to White, dated Nov. 28, 1827, he thus speaks of it:

    "I have now before me two fragments of letters begun, the one in
    acknowledgment of the finest and most graceful sonnet in our language
    (at least it is only in Milton's and Wordsworth's sonnets that I {470}
    recollect any rival, and this is not my judgment alone, but that of the
    man [Greek: kat' exochên philokalon], John Hookham Frere), the second
    on the receipt of your 'Letter to Charles Butler,'" &c.

In a subsequent letter, without date, Coleridge thus again reverts to the circumstance of its
having been published without his or White's sanction:

    "But first of your sonnet. On reading the sentences in your letter
    respecting it, I stood staring vacantly on the paper, in a state of
    feeling not unlike that which I have too often experienced in a dream:
    when I have found myself in chains, or in rags, shunned, or passed by,
    with looks of horror blended with sadness, by friends and acquaintance;
    and convinced that, in some alienation of mind, I must have perpetrated
    some crime, which I strove in vain to recollect. I then ran down to
    Mrs. Gillman, to learn whether she or Mr. Gillman could throw any light
    on the subject. Neither Mr. nor Mrs. Gillman could account for it. I
    have repeated the sonnet often, but, to the best of my recollection,
    never either gave a copy to any one, or permitted any one to transcribe
    it; and as to publishing it without your consent, you must allow me to
    say the truth: I had felt myself so much flattered by your having
    addressed it to me, that I should have been half afraid that it would
    appear to be asking to have my vanity tickled, if I had thought of
    applying to you for permission to publish it. Where and when did it
    appear? If you will be so good as to inform me, I may perhaps trace it
    out: for it annoys me to imagine myself capable of such a breach of
    confidence and of delicacy."

In his Journal, October 16 [1838?], Blanco White says:

    "In copying out my 'Sonnet on Night and Death' for a friend, I have
    made some corrections.

S. W. SINGER.

       *       *       *       *       *

GOLOSHES.

(Vol. ix., p. 304.)

This word, SELEUCUS says, "is of course of American derivation." By no means: it is found in
German, gallosche or gallusche; and in French, galoche or galloche. The word itself most likely
comes to us from the French. The dictionaries refer to Spenser as using it under the form galage;
and it occurs written galege, galosh, calosh, &c. The French borrowed the term from the Latin
Gallicæ; but the Romans first derived the idea and the thing itself from Gaul, Gallicæ denoting
Gallic or Gaulish shoes. Cicero speaks of the Gallicæ with contempt.--"Cum calceis et toga,
nullis nec gallicis nec lacerna;" and again, "Cum gallicis et lacerna cucurristi" (Philip.
ii. 30.). Blount, in his Law Dictionary (1670), gives the following, which refers to one very
early use of the term in this country:

    "GALEGE (galiciæ), from the French galloches, which signified of
    old a certain shoe worn by the Gauls in foul weather, as at present
    the signification with us does not much differ. It is mentioned 4 Edw.
    IV. cap. 7., and 14 & 15 Hen. VIII. cap. 9."

Therefore the thing itself and the word were known among us before America was discovered.
As it regards the Latin word Gallicæ, I only know of its use by Cicero, Tertullian, and A.
Gellius. The last-named, in the Noctes Atticæ, gives the following anecdote and observations
relating to this word. T. Castricius, a teacher of rhetoric at Rome, observing that some of
his pupils were, on a holiday, as he deemed, unsuitably attired, and shod (soleati) with gallicæ
(galloches, sabots, wooden shoes or clogs), he expressed in strong terms his disapprobation.
He stated it to be unworthy of their rank, and referred to the above-cited passage from Cicero.
Some of his hearers inquired why he called those soleati who wore goloshes (gallicæ) and not
shoes (soleæ). The expression is justified by a statement which sufficiently describes the
goloshes, viz., that they call soleæ (shoes) all those which cover only the lower portions
of the foot, and are fastened with straps. The author adds:

    "I think that gallicæ is a new word, which was begun to be used not
    long before Cicero's time, therefore used by him in the Second of the
    Antonians. 'Cum gallicis,' says he, 'et lacerna cucurristi.' Nor do I
    read it in any other writer of authority, but other words are
    employed."

The Romans named shoes after persons and places as we do: for examples, see Dr. W. Smith's
Dictionary of Greek and Roman Antiquities, sub voc. "Calceus."

B. H. C.

Poplar.

This word is not of American derivation. In the Promptorium Parvulorum we find,--

    "GALACHE or GALOCHE, undersolynge of manny's fote."

Mr. Way says in his note:

    "The galache was a sort of patten, fastened to the foot by cross
    latchets, and worn by men as early as the {471} time of Edward III.
    Allusion is made to it by Chaucer,

     'Ne were worthy to unbocle his galoche.'--Squires Tale, 10,869."

Among many other quotations Mr. Way gives the following:

 "To geten hym gilte spores,
    Or galoches y-couped."--Piers Ploughman, 12,099.

And in the Wardrobe Book of Prince Henry, A.D. 1607, are mentioned--

"1 pair of golossians, 6s.; 16 gold buckles with pendants and toungs to buckle a pair of golosses."--Archæol.
xi. 93.

Nares says:

    "GALAGE. A clown's coarse shoe from galloche, a shoe with a wooden
    sole, old French, which itself is supposed to be from gallica, a kind
    of shoe mentioned by Cicero, Philip. ii. 30., and A. Gellius, xiii.
    21. If so, the word has returned to the country whence it was first
    taken, but I doubt much of that derivation; by the passages referred to
    in the above authors, it seems more likely that the gallica was a
    luxurious covering, than one so very coarse as the galloche. Perhaps
    the caliga, or military strong boot of the Romans, from which
    Caligula was named, may be a better origin for it. The word galloche
    is now naturalised among us for a kind of clog, worn over the shoes."

See also Richardson's Dictionary, s. v. "Galoche."

ZEUS.

SELEUCUS need not have gone quite so far as to "the tribe of North American Indians, the Goloshes,"
or to America at all, for his derivation. If he will look in his French dictionary he will find,--

    "Galoche (espèce de mule que l'on porte par dessus les souliers),
    galoshoe."

I quote from Boyer's Dictionnaire Royal, edit. 1753.

Cole, in his English dictionary, 1724, has--

    "Galeges, galages, galloches, galloshoes, Fr., wooden shoes all
    of a piece. With us outward shoes or cases for dirty weather, &c."

C. DE D.

       *       *       *       *       *

CONSONANTS IN WELSH.

(Vol. ix., p. 271.)

For the gratification of your correspondent J. M., I give you the result of an enumeration
of the letters and sounds in three versions of the Hundredth Psalm in Welsh, and three corresponding
versions of it in English.

1. From the authorised translations of the Bible, Welsh and English.

2. The metrical version of Tate and Brady, and that of Archdeacon Prys.

3. Dr. Watts's metrical version and a Welsh imitation of it.

  Letters in three Welsh Versions.

                          Bible.       Prys.          Watts.
  Consonants                 185           205               241
  Vowels                     148           165               159
                             ---           ---               ---
  Apparent excess of  }
  consonants in Welsh }       37            40                82

  Letters in three English Versions.

                          Bible.    Tate & Brady.     Watts.
  Consonants                 220           271               275
  Vowels                     134           163               170
                             ---           ---               ---
  Apparent excess of    }
  consonants in English }     86           108               105

  Sounds in three Welsh Versions.

                          Bible.       Prys.          Watts.
  Consonants                 150           173               200
  Vowels                     148           165               159
                             ---           ---               ---
  Real excess of consonants}
  in Welsh                 }   2             8                41

  Sounds in three English Versions.

                          Bible.    Tate & Brady.     Watts.
  Consonants                 195           241               240
  Vowels                     122           149               159
                             ---           ---               ---
  Real excess of consonants}
  in English               }  73            92                81

From this analysis it appears that the excess of consonant letters over vowels is, in English,
299; and in Welsh, 159, a little more than one-half. The excess of consonant sounds is, in
English, 246; in Welsh, 51, considerably less than one-fourth.

This result might readily have been anticipated by anybody familiar with the following facts:

1. On examining lists of the elementary sounds of both languages, it will be found that the
Welsh has a greater number of vowels than the English, and the English a greater number of
consonants than the Welsh.

2. Welsh diphthongs are much more numerous than English.

3. In English, three vowels only constitute words in themselves (a, article; I, pronoun; O,
interjection), and each is used only in one sense. In Welsh, five of the vowels (a, e, i, o,
y) are words; and they are used in at least a dozen different significations. A, besides being
an affirmative and interrogative adverb, answers to the English and, as, with, will go.

4. Diphthongs forming distinct words are much more numerous in Welsh than in English. The following
occur: ai, a'i (=a ei), a'u, ei, eu, ia, ïe, i'w, o'i, o'u, ow, [^w]y, yw.

5. In Welsh there are no such clusters of consonants as occur in the English words arched {472}
(pronounced artsht), parched, scorched, marched, hinged (hindzhd), singed, cringed, fringed,
purged (purdzhd), charged (tshardzhd), scratched, &c. &c. From the difficulty encountered in
pronouncing some of these combinations, arise the vulgar errors heard in some parts of the
country: burstis for bursts, castis for casts. Three consonants are very rarely thus crushed
together in Welsh,--four, never.

6. The Welsh, to avoid an unpleasant hiatus, often introduce a consonant. Hence we have y or
yr, the; a or ac, and; a or ag, as; na or nac, not; na or nag, than; sy or sydd, is; o, from,
becomes odd; i, to, becomes idd. I cannot call to mind more than one similar example in English,
a or an; and its existence is attributable to the superfluity of consonants, n being dropped
in a, not added in an.

The mystery of the consonants in the swearing Welshman's mouth (humorously described by Messrs.
Chambers) is difficult of explanation. The words usual in Welsh oaths afford no clue to its
solution; for the name of the Deity has two consonants and one vowel in English, while it has
two vowels and one consonant in Welsh. Another name invoked on these occasions has three consonants
and two vowels in English, and one of the vowels is usually elided; in Welsh it has three vowels
and three consonants, and colloquially the middle consonant is dropped. The Welsh borrow a
few imprecatory words from the English, and in appropriating them they append the vowel termination
o or io. Prejudice or imagination, therefore, seems to have had something to do in describing
poor Taffy's profanities.

In conclusion, I may add that the Hundredth Psalm was chosen for analysis without a previous
knowledge that it would present a greater excess of consonants (letters or sounds) in English
than in Welsh. I do not believe two chapters from the Bible can be produced, which will show
an opposite result.

GWILYM GLAN TYWI.

There is no k in the Welsh alphabet, a circumstance which reduces the consonants to twenty;
while a farther reduction is made by the fact that w and y are always vowels in Welsh, instead
of being only occasionally so, as in English. J. M. will therefore find that the Welsh alphabet
contains but eighteen consonants and seven vowels, twenty-five letters in all.

This, however, I imagine, is not the point on which he wishes for information. If a stranger
glances at a page of Welsh without being aware that y and w are, strictly speaking, vowels,
he will of course naturally conclude that he sees an over proportion of consonants. Hence,
probably, has arisen the very general idea on the subject, which is perhaps strengthened by
the frequent occurrence of the double consonants Ll and Dd, the first of which is but a sign,
standing for a peculiar softening of the letter; and the latter for Th of the English language.

Such an idea might perhaps be conveyed by the following instances, taken at random: Dywyll,
Dydd, Gwyddna, Llwyn, Gwyrliw, &c. But it will be dispelled by an orthography adapted to the
pronunciation; thus Dou-ill[3], Deeth, Goo-eeth-na, Lloo-een, Gueer-leeoo.

J. M. will be interested to know that the Welsh language can furnish almost unexampled instances
of an accumulation of vowels, such as that furnished by the word ieuainc, young men, &c.; but
above all by the often-quoted englyn or stanza on the spider or silkworm, which, in its four
lines, does not contain a single consonant:

 "O'i wi[^w] wy i weu ê â,--a'i weau
  O'i wyau e weua:
  E weua ei [^w]e aia,
  A'i weau yw ieuau iâ."

SELEUCUS.

In reply to J. M. I beg to ask who ever before heard that consonants "cracked and cracked,
and ground and exploded?" and how could the writer in Chambers's Repository possibly know that
the drunken Welshman cursed and swore in consonants? There is scarcely a more harshly-sounding
word in the Welsh language--admitted by a clever and satirical author to have "the softness
and harmony of the Italian, with the majesty and expression of the Greek"--than the term crack,
adopted from the Dutch. There is no Welsh monosyllable that contains, like the Saxon strength,
seven consonants with only one vowel. There is no Welsh proper name, like Rentzsch, the watchmaker
of Regent Street, that contains six consonants in succession in one syllable; and yet the Welsh
have never accused their younger sister with the use of consonants which "cracked and cracked,
and ground and exploded." But if the Welsh language, with "its variety, copiousness, and even
harmony, to be equalled by few, perhaps excelled by none," has no instance of six consonants
in succession, it has one of six vowels in succession, Gwaewawr, every one of which requires,
according to the peculiarity of its pronunciation, a separate inflection of the voice.

J. M. may be assured that the remark of the writer in question is only one of those pitiful
"cracks" which flippant authors utter in plain ignorance of Cymru, Cymraeg, and Cymry.

CYMRO.

Marlbro.

I think the following englyn or epigram on a silkworm, which is composed entirely of vowels,
will satisfy your correspondent. I have seen it in some book, the name of which I forget. It
{473} must be borne in mind that w is a vowel in Welsh, and is sounded like oo in boot.

 "I perish by my art; dig my own grave;
  I spin my thread of life; my death I weave."

THOMAS O'COFFEY.

[Footnote 3: The Dou to be pronounced as in Douglass.]

       *       *       *       *       *

SONGS of DEGREES (ASCENTS).

(Vol. ix., pp. 121. 376.)

The analysis of the word [Hebrew: HAMA`ALWOT] (the steps), confining ourselves to sensible
objects, shows, first, the preposition [Hebrew: `AL], over (=up + on); and, secondly, [Hebrew:
MA`ALAH], the chamber-over. (Neh. ix. 4., xii. 37.; Jos. x. 10.; 1 Sam. ix. 11.; Am. ix. 6.;
Ps. civ. 13.) The translators of the authorised version, in using the word "degrees," intended
probably to convey the notion of rank; but the modern mixed-mathematical ideas lead us of this
day rather to think of geographical, barometrical, &c. degrees. That steps is the word most
accordant with the ancient notions is evident from the concurrence of the Greek, Latin, Syriac,
Arabic, and Ethiopic versions, as also from the Chaldee Targum, alluded to by J. R. G., which
has the inscription [Chaldee: SHYR' D'T'MR `AL MASWQIYN DTCHWOMA'], "a song called 'over the
steps of the deep'" (Deut. viii. 7.; Ex. xv. 8.). The root of this moral is [Hebrew: `LCH],
in the Hebrew and its cognates, and the primitive notion is to ascend; from which is formed
in Arabic [(ARABIC)], adscendit in tectum; in Syriac [(SYRIAC)], contignatio superior, coenaculum
(Jud. iii. 23-25.; Luc. xxii. 12.); and the Chaldee [Chaldee: `ALIYT], pars domus superior,
cubiculum, sive coenaculum superius, Græc. [Greek: huperôon] (Dan. vi. 11.). See Shaw's Itinerary,
pp. 360-365.

The [Hebrew: M] prefixed is the participial form of the verb, equivalent to the termination
ing in English; and converts the verb also into a verbal noun, conveying the generalised idea
of a class of actions; and thereby the steps, [Hebrew: HM`LWT], the steppings upward, literally,
which means "the ascents," or "the ascendings."

The ascent by fifteen steps of the rabbins is probably equally apocryphal with the quotations
from St. Matthew and St. James (ix. p. 376.); for the same reason (Ex. xx. 26.) which forbad
the ascending the altar by steps, would apply still more strongly to the supposed "fifteen
steps leading from the Atrium Israelis to the court of the women."[4] Although the ground-plans
of the temples are well known, their elevations are involved in doubt.

Your journal would not afford me sufficient space for an excursus to establish the suggestion,
not assertion, that I have adventured as to the domestic use of the Alphabetic and Degree Psalms,
but there is negative evidence that these Psalms were not used in the Jewish liturgy. I will
only refer you to Lightfoot's ninth volume (Pitman's edition), where the Psalms used, and indeed
the whole service of the Jews, is as clearly set forth as the Greek service is in the liturgies
of Basil and Chrysostom.

T. J. BUCKTON.

Lichfield.

[Footnote 4: "Eadem ratio, ab honestate ducta, eandem pepererat apud Romanos legem. Gellius
ex Fabio Pictore, Noct. Attic., lib. x. c. 15., de flamine Diali: Scalas, nisi quæ Græcæ adpellantur,
eas adscendere ei plus tribus gradibus religiosum est. Servius ad Æneid, iv. 646. Apud veteres,
Flaminicam plus tribus gradibus, nisi Græcas scalas, scandere non licebat, ne ulla pars pedum
ejus, crurumve subter conspiceretur; eoque nec pluribus gradibus, sed tribus ut adscensu duplices
nisus non paterentur adtolli vestem, aut nudari crura; nam ideo et scalæ Græcæ dicuntur, quia
ita fabricantur ut omni ex parte compagine tabularum clausæ sint, ne adspectum ad corporis
aliquam partem admittant."--Rosenmüller on Exod. x. 26. The ascent to the altar, fifteen feet
high, was by a gangway, [Hebrew: KBSH].]

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SCREW PROPELLER.

(Vol. ix., p. 394.)

ANON. is clearly mistaken in thinking that, when Darwin says that "the undulating motion of
the tail of fishes might be applied behind a boat with greater effect than common oars," he
had any idea of a screw propeller. He meant not a rotatory, but, as he says, an "undulating"
motion, like that of the fish's tail: such as we see every day employed by the boys in all
our rivers and harbours, called sculling--that is, driving a boat forward by the rapid lateral
right and left impulsion of a single oar, worked from the stern of the boat. It was the application
of steam to some such machinery as this that Darwin seems to have meant; and not to the special
action of a revolving cut-water screw.

I avail myself of this occasion to record, that about the date of Darwin's publication, or
very soon after, the very ingenious Earl Stanhope not only thought of, but actually employed,
the identical screw propeller now in use in a vessel which he had fitted up for the purpose;
and in which, by his invitation, I, and several other gentlemen, accompanied him in various
trips backwards and forwards between Blackfriars and Westminster bridges. The instrument was
a long iron axle, {474} working on the stern port of the vessel, having at the end in the water
a wheel of inclined planes, exactly like the flyer of a smoke-jack; while, inboard, the axle
was turned by a crank worked by the men. The velocity attained was, I think, said to be four
miles an hour. I am sorry that I am not able to specify the exact date of this experiment,
but it must have been between 1802 and 1805. What Lord Stanhope said about employing steam
to work his machine, I do not clearly recollect. He entered into a great many details about
it, but I remember nothing distinctly but the machine itself.

C.

       *       *       *       *       *

AMONTILLADO SHERRY.

(Vol. ix., pp. 222. 336.)

The wines of Xérès consist of two kinds, viz. sweet and dry, each of which is again subdivided
into two other varieties. Amontillado sherry, or simply Amontillado, belongs to the latter
class, the other description produced from the dry wine being sherry, properly so called, that
which passes in this country generally by that name. These two wines, although differing from
each other in the peculiarities of colour, smell, and flavour, are produced from the same grape,
and in precisely a similar manner; indeed, it frequently happens that of two or more botas,
or large casks, filled with the same moùt (wort or sweet wine), and subjected to the same manipulation,
the one becomes Amontillado, and the other natural sherry. This mysterious transformation takes
place ordinarily during the first, but sometimes even during the second year, and in a manner
that has hitherto baffled the attempts of the most attentive observer to discover. Natural
sherry has a peculiar aromatic flavour, somewhat richer than that of its brother, the Amontillado,
and partakes of three different colours, viz. pale or straw, golden, and deep golden, the latter
being the description denominated by us brown sherry. The Amontillado is of a straw colour
only, more or less shaded according to the age it possesses. Its flavour is drier and more
delicate than that of natural sherry, recalling in a slight degree the taste of nuts and almonds.
This wine, beings produced by a phenomenon which takes place it is imagined during the fermentation,
is naturally less abundant than the other description of sherry, and there are years in which
it is produced in very small quantities, and sometimes even not at all; for the same reason
it is age for age dearer also. The word "Amontillado" signifies like or similar to Montilla,
i. e. the wine manufactured at that place. Montilla is situated in Upper Andalusia, in the
neighbourhood of Cordouc, and produces an excellent description of wine, but which, from the
want of roads and communication with the principal commercial towns of Spain, is almost entirely
unknown.

The two sweet wines of Xérès are the "Paxarite," or "Pedro Ximenès," and the "Muscatel." The
first-named is made from a species of grape called "Pedro Ximenès," sweeter in quality than
that which produces the dry sherry, and which, moreover, is exposed much longer to the action
of the sun previous to the process of manufacture; its condition when subjected to the action
of the pressers resembling very nearly that of a raisin. Fermentation is in this case much
more rapid on account of the saccharine nature of the moùt or wort. In flavour it is similar
to the fruit called "Pedro Ximenès," the colour being the same as that of natural sherry. Muscate
wine is made from the grape of that name, and in a manner precisely similar to the Paxarite.
The wine produced from this grape is still sweeter than the Pedro Ximenès, its taste being
absolutely that of the Muscat grape. In colour also it is deeper; but the colour of both, like
that of the two dry wines, increases in proportion to their age, a circumstance exactly the
reverse of that which takes place in French wines. German sherry wines are capable of preservation
both in bottles and casks for an indefinite period. In one of the bodegas or cellars belonging
to the firm of M. P. Domecq, at Xérès, are to be seen five or six casks of immense size and
antiquity (some of them, it is said, exceeding a century). Each of them bears the name of some
distinguished hero of the age in which it was produced, Wellington and Napoleon figuring conspicuously
amongst others: the former is preserved exclusively for the taste of Englishmen.

The history of sherry dates, in a commercial point of view, from about the year 1720 only.
Before this period it is uncertain whether it possessed any existence at all; at all events
it appears to have been unknown beyond the immediate neighbourhood in which it was produced.
It would be difficult, perhaps, to say by whom it was first imported: all that can be affirmed
with any degree of certainty is, that a Frenchman, by name Pierre Domecq, the founder of the
house before mentioned, was among the earliest to recognise its capabilities, and to bring
it to the high state of perfection which it has since attained. In appreciation of the good
service thus rendered to his country, Ferdinand VII. conferred upon this house the right exclusively
to bear upon their casks the royal arms of Spain. This wine, from being at first cultivated
only in small quantities, has long since grown into one of the staple productions of the country.
In the neighbourhood of Xérès there are at present under cultivation from 10,000 to 12,000
arpents of vines; these produce annually from 30,000 to 35,000 botas, equal to 70,000 or 75,000
hogsheads. In gathering the {475} fruit, the ripest is invariably selected for wines of the
best quality. The wines of Xérès, like all those of the peninsula, require the necessary body
or strength to enable them to sustain the fatigue of exportation. Previous, therefore, to shipment
(none being sold under four to five years of age), a little eau de vie (between the fiftieth
and sixtieth part) is added, a quantity in itself so small, that few would imagine it to be
the cause of the slight alcoholic taste which nearly all sherries possess.

In consequence of the high price of the delicious wines, numerous imitations, or inferior sherries,
are manufactured, and sold in immense quantities. Of these the best are to be met with at the
following places: San Lucar, Porto, Santa Maria, and even Malaga itself. The spurious sherry
of the first-named place is consumed in larger quantities, especially in France, than the genuine
wine itself. One reason for this may be, that few vessels go to take cargoes at Cadiz; whilst
many are in the habit of doing so to Malaga for dry fruits, and to Seville for the fine wool
of Estremadura. San Lucar is situated at the mouth of the Guadalquiver.

W. C.

       *       *       *       *       *

RECENT CURIOSITIES OF LITERATURE.

(Vol. ix., p. 136.)

Mr. Thackeray's work, The Newcomes, would, if consulted by your correspondent, furnish him
with farther examples. For instance, Colonel Newcome's Christian name is stated (pp. 27. 57.)
to be Thomas: at p. 49. he is designated Col. J. Newcome. The letter addressed to him (p. 27.)
is superscribed "Major Newcome," although at p. 25. he is styled "Colonel." At p. 71. mention
is made of "Mr. Shaloo, the great Irish patriot," who at p. 74. becomes "Mr. Shaloony," and
at p. 180. relapses into the dissyllabic "Shaloo." Clive Newcome is represented (p. 184.) as
admiring his youthful mustachios, and Mr. Doyle has depicted him without whiskers: at p. 188.
Ethel, "after Mr. Clive's famous mustachios made their appearance, rallied him," and "asked
him if he was (were?) going into the army? She could not understand how any but military men
could wear mustachios." On this the author remarks, three lines farther on: "If Clive had been
in love with her, no doubt he would have sacrificed even those beloved whiskers for the charmer."

At p. 111. the Rev. C. Honeyman is designated "A.M.," although previously described a Master
of Arts of Oxford, where the Masters are styled "M.A." in contradistinction to the Masters
of Arts in every other university.

If the author ever watched the hired applauders in a Parisian theatre, he would have discerned
among them clacqueuses as well as clacqueurs.

JUVERNA, M.A.

       *       *       *       *       *

ROLAND THE BRAVE.

(Vol. ix., p. 372.)

In justification of Dr. Forbes' identifying Roland the Brave with the hero of Schiller's ballad,
Ritter Toggenburg, I beg to refer your correspondent X. Y. Z. to Deutsches Sagenbuch, von L.
Bechstein, Leipzig, 1853, where (p. 95.) the same tale is related which forms the subject of
Mrs. Hemans' beautiful ballad, only with this difference, that there the account of Roland's
death entirely agrees with Schiller's version of the story, whereas the English poet has adopted
the general tradition of Roland's fall at Roncesvalles.

Most of the epic poems of the middle ages in which Roland's death is recorded, especially the
different old French Chansons de Roland ou de Roncevaux, an Icelandic poem on the subject,
and Stricker's middle-high German lay of Roland, all of them written between A.D. 1100 and
1230--agree in this, that after Roland's fall at Roncesvalles, and the complete rout of the
heathen by Charlemagne, the latter returns home and is met--some say at Aix-la-Chapelle, others
at Blavie, others at Paris--by Alda or Alite, Olivier's sister, who inquires of him where Roland,
her betrothed, is. On learning his fate she dies on the spot of grief. According to monk Conrad
(about A.D. 1175), Alda was Roland's wife. See Ruolandes Liet, von W. Grimm, Göttingen, 1838,
pp. 295--297.

The legend of Rolandseck, as told by Bechstein from Rhenish folk lore, begins thus:

    "Es sasz auf hoher Burg am Rhein hoch über dem Stromthal ein junger
    Rittersmann, Roland geheiszen, (manche sagen Roland von Angers, Neffe
    Karls des Groszen), der liebte ein Burgfräulein, Hildegunde, die
    Tochter des Burggrafen Heribert, der auf dem nahen Schlosz Drachenfels
    sasz," &c.

Here the question is left open whether the hero of the story was Roland the Brave, or some
other knight of that name. The latter seems the more probable, as Roland's fall at Roncesvalles
is one of the chief subjects of mediæval poetry, whereas the death of knight Roland in sight
of {476} Nonnenwerth on the Rhine, forms the very pith of the German local legend. From certain
coincidences, however, it was easy to blend the two stories together into one, as was done
by Mrs. Hemans. As to Schiller, we may suppose that he either followed altogether a different
legend, or, perhaps to avoid misconception, substituted another name for that of knight Roland,
similar to what he has done in other instances.

R. R.

Canterbury.

I think your correspondent X. Y. Z. is mistaken in attributing to Mrs. Hemans the lines on
the "Brave Roland." In Mr. Campbell's Poems he will find some stanzas which bear a striking
resemblance to those he has quoted. I subjoin those stanzas to which X. Y. Z. has referred:

 "The brave Roland! the brave Roland!
  False tidings reach'd the Rhenish strand
    That he had fall'n in fight;
  And thy faithful bosom swoon'd with pain,
  O loveliest maiden of Allemayne!
    For the loss of thine own true knight.

 "But why so rash has she ta'en the veil,
  In yon Nonnenwerder's cloisters pale,
    For her vow had scarce been sworn,
  And the fatal mantle o'er her flung,
  When the Drachenfels to a trumpet rung,
   'Twas her own dear warrior's horn!

    .    .    .    .    .    .

 "She died! he sought the battle plain;
  Her image fill'd his dying brain,
    When he fell and wish'd to fall:
  And her name was in his latest sigh,
  When Roland, the flower of chivalry,
    Expired at Roncevall."

H. B. F.

The legends of Roland, the nephew of Charlemagne, are very numerous and vary much from each
other. The Orlando of Pulci has a very different history from the Orlando of Bojardo and Ariosto.

The legend of "Rolandseck and the Nonnenwerth," which has been adopted by Campbell, not Mrs.
Hemans, and charmingly set to music by Mrs. Arkwright, is well known on the Rhine. There are
two poems on the legend in Simrock's Rheinsagen (12mo., Bonn, 1841), one by the editor, and
another by August Kopisch. They exactly accord with Campbell's poem.

The legend of Ritter Toggenburg resembles that of Roland in many particulars, but it is not
the same, and it belongs to another locality, to Kloster Fischingen, and not to Nonnenwerth.
"Roland the Brave" appears in all the later editions of Campbell's Poems. Simrock's Rheinsagen
is one of the most delightful handbooks that any one can take through the romantic region which
the poems (partly well selected by the editor, and partly as well written by himself) describe.

E. C. H.

The author of the beautiful lines which are quoted by your correspondent X. Y. Z., is Campbell,
not Mrs. Hemans. The poet, in the fifth stanza of his ballad, tells how the unfortunate Roland,
on finding that Hildegund had taken the veil, was accustomed to sit at his window, and "sad
and oft" to look "on the mansion of his love below."

 "There's yet one window of that pile,
  Which he built above the nun's green isle;
    Thence sad and oft look'd he
  (When the chant and organ sounded slow)
  On the mansion of his love below,
    For herself he might not see.

F. M. MIDDLETON.

Scott has, in Marmion,--

 "When Roland brave, and Olivier,
  And every paladin and peer,
    At Roncesvalles died!"

I quote from memory, and have not the poem.

F. C. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

PHOTOGRAPHIC CORRESPONDENCE.

Recovery of Silver.--As many correspondents of "N. & Q." have asked how to recover the silver
from their nitrate baths when deteriorated or spoiled, perhaps the following hints may be acceptable
to them. Let them first precipitate the silver in the form of a chloride by adding common salt
to the nitrate solution. Let them then filter it, and it may be reduced to its metallic state
by either of the three following methods.

1. By adding to the wet chloride at least double its volume of water, containing one-tenth
part of sulphuric acid; plunge into this a thick piece of zinc, and leave it here for four-and-twenty
hours. The chloride of silver will be reduced by the formation of {477} chloride and sulphate
of zinc, and of pure silver, which will remain under the form of a blackish powder, which is
then to be washed, filtered, and preserved for the purpose of making nitrate of silver.

2. The chloride of silver which is to be reduced is put into a flask with about twice its volume
of a solution of caustic potash (of one part of caustic potash to nine of water), in which
a small portion of sugar has been dissolved. Let it boil gently. The operation is complete
when the blackish powder which results from this process, having been washed in several waters,
is entirely soluble in nitric acid, which is easily ascertained by experimenting on a small
quantity. This powder is to be preserved in the same way as the former for the purpose of converting
it into nitrate of silver.

3. The metallic silver is obtained in the form of a button, by mixing thoroughly 100 parts
of dried chloride of silver, 70 parts of chalk or whitening, and 4 parts of charcoal. This
mixture is to be exposed in a crucible to a fierce red heat for at least half an hour. When
completely cold the crucible is broken, and a button of pure silver is the result. The first
two processes are those which I should most strongly recommend to your correspondents.

N. C.

       *       *       *       *       *

Replies to Minor Queries.

Ashes of "Lignites" (Vol. ix., p. 422.).--RUSTICUS is obliged to the Editor for so soon giving
a reply to his Query; but seems convicted of being a bad penman, like many other rustics. For
the strange word, respecting which he asked for information, having seen it used in a newspaper,
was not lignites but liquites. RUSTICUS could have guessed that the ashes of lignites were
but wood-ashes under a pedantic name; but a term which looks, to a rustic, as if chemists meant
to persuade him to burn his beer for a valuable residuum, is more perplexing.

RUSTICUS.

Old Rowley (Vol. ix., p. 457., &c.).--The late Sir Charles Bunbury, who was long the father
of the Jury, and considered as an oracle in all matters relating to it, told me, many years
ago, that Charles II. was nicknamed "Old Rowley" after a favourite stallion in the royal stud
so called; and he added, that the same horse's appellation had been ever since preserved in
the "Rowley Mile," a portion of the race-course still much used, and well-known to all frequenters
of Newmarket.

BRAYBROOKE.

"Bachelors of every Station" (Vol. ix., p. 301.) is the beginning of the Berkshire Lady, an
old ballad nearly extinct, and republished by me some years ago in the form of a small pamphlet,
which sold rapidly. If I can procure one, it shall be forwarded to Mr. Bell.

The story is a true one, and related to a daughter of Sir William Kendrick's, who succeeded
him, and was possessor of Calcot Place in the parish of Tylehurst, and to Benjamin Child, Esq.,
whom she met at a marriage feast in the neighbourhood. A wood near Calcot is where the party
met to fight the duel in case Mr. Child rejected the proposals of marriage made to him by Miss
Kendrick.

I had the account from an old man between eighty and ninety years of age, clerk of the parish;
and my friend Miss Mitford agreed with me in the accuracy of the story: she had it from the
late Countess Dowager of Macclesfield, an old lady celebrated for her extensive and accurate
knowledge of legendary lore.

In opening a vault in St. Mary's, Reading, last year, her coffin was found entire, with this
inscription:

    "Frances Child, wife of Benjamin Child. Esq., of Calcot, and first
    daughter of Sir Benjamin Kendrick, Bart. Died Feb. 27, 1722, aged 35.
    The Lady of Berks."

Another coffin,--

    "Benjamin Child, Esq., died 2nd May, 1767, aged 84 years."

JULIA R. BOCKETT.

Southcote Lodge.

Mousehunt (Vol. viii., pp. 516. 606.; Vol. ix., pp. 65. 136. 385.).--In Vol. ix., p. 65., the
Natural History of Quadrupeds, by James H. Fennell, is quoted; where, speaking of the Beech
Marten (alias Mousehunt), he says:

    "In Selkirkshire it has been observed to descend to the shore at
    night time to feed upon mollusks, particularly upon the large Basket
    Mussel (Mytilus modiolus)."

In p. 136, I ventured to state that Mr. Fennell must have been a better naturalist than geographer,
as Selkirkshire was well known to be an inland county nowhere approaching the sea by many miles.
I added, that I hoped, for Mr. Fennell's sake, that Selkirkshire was either a misprint or a
misquotation.

In p. 385. MR. ARCHIBALD FRASER, Woodford, not choosing to exonerate Mr. Fennell by either
of my suggestions, prefers, as a staunch, but I think rather an inconsiderate friend and champion,
to vindicate the paragraph as it stands, by candidly admitting that if the word beach had been
used, it would certainly have referred to the sea; but that the word shore applies to rivers
as well as seas. And he goes back as far as Spenser to find an instance of its use, as applied
to the banks of the river Nile.

I will not agree that this use is nearly obsolete, but give him the full value of his quotation
from Spenser. But what does he say to the habitat of the Mytilus modiolus, which the Mousehunt
goes {478} to the shore to feed upon. I quote from Rees' Cyclopædia, voce "MYTILUS:"

    "MODIOLUS. Shell smooth and blackish, obtuse at the smaller end, and
    rounded at the other; one side near the beaks is angular. Two varieties
    are noticed by Lister. It inhabits the European, American, and Indian
    seas, adhering to fuci and zoophytes; is six or seven inches long,
    and about half as broad: the fish is red or orange, and eatable."

J. S.S.

Value of Money in the Seventeenth Century (Vol. ix. p. 375.).--Say, in his Political Economy
(Prinsep's translation, i. 413.), has furnished a comparative statement, the result of which
is, that the setier of wheat, whose relative value to other commodities has varied little from
1520 down to the present time, has undergone great fluctuations, being worth--

  A. D. 1520          512 gr. of pure silver.
  A. D. 1536         1063        ditto.
  A. D. 1602         2060        ditto.
  A. D. 1789         2012        ditto.

Whence it may be inferred that 1000l. in 1640, 1660, and 1680 did not vary much from its value
at the present time, such value being measured in silver. But as the value of all commodities
resolves itself ultimately into the cost of labour, the rate of wages at these dates, in the
particular country or part of a country, must be taken as the only safe criterion.

Thus, if labour were 20d. per diem in 1640, and is 40d. at this time, 1000l. in 1640 is equivalent
to 500l. (only half as much) now. But, on the contrary, as the cost of production of numerous
articles by machinery, &c. has been by so much reduced, the power of purchase now, as compared
with 1640, of 1000l., is by so much increased. The article itself must determine by how much.
The question put by C. H. is too general to admit of a positive solution; but should he specify
the commodity and place of investment in the seventeenth century and to-day of the 1000l.,
our statistics might still be at fault, and deny us even a proximate determination of his inquiry.
Even his 1000l., which he may consider a fixed measure of value, or punctum comparationis,
is varying in value (=power of purchase) daily, even hourly, as regards almost every exchangeable
product. Tooke On Prices is a first-rate authority on this subject.

T. J. BUCKTON.

Lichfield.

Grammars for Public Schools (Vol. ix., pp. 8. 209.).--Pray add this little gem to your list,
now scarce:

    "The Gate of Tongues Unlocked and Opened, or else A Seminarie or Seed
    Plot of all Tongues and Sciences, that is, a short way of teaching and
    thorowly learning, within a yeare and a half at the farthest, the
    Latin, English, French, and any other tongue, together with the ground
    and foundation of Arts and Sciences, comprised under an hundred Titles
    and 1058 Periods. In Latine first, and now as a token of thankfulnesse
    brought to light in Latine, English, and French, in the behalfe of the
    most illustrious Prince Charles, and of British, French, and Irish
    Youths. By the labour and industry of John Anchoran, Licentiate of
    Divinity, London, 1633."

Our British youths of those days seem to have been apt scholars.

I. T. ABBOTT.

Darlington.

Classic Authors and the Jews (Vol. ix., pp. 221. 384.).--Any edition of the Historiæ Augustæ
Scriptores Sex, containing an index, ought to supply B. H. C. with a few additional references.
See, for instance, the Index to the Bipont Edition, 2 vols. 8vo., [MDCCLXXXVII], under the
words "Judæi," "Judaicus," "Moses."

C. FORBES.

Temple.

Hand-bells at Funerals (Vol. ii., p. 478.; Vol. vii., p. 297.).--A few years ago I happened
to arrive at the small sea-port of Roscoff, near the ancient cathedral town of St. Pol de Léon
in Britanny, on the day appointed for the funeral of one of the members of a family of very
old standing in that neighbourhood. My attention was attracted by a number of boys running
about the streets with small hand-bells, with which they kept up a perpetual tinkling. On inquiring
of a friend of mine, a native of the place, what this meant, he informed me that it was an
old custom in Britanny--but one which in the present day had almost fallen into disuse--to
send boys round from door to door with bells to announce when a death had occurred, and to
give notice of the day and the hour at which the funeral was to take place, begging at the
same time the prayers of the faithful for the soul of the deceased. The boys selected for this
office are taken from the most indigent classes, and, on the day of the funeral, receive cloaks
of coarse black cloth as an alms: thus attired, they attend the funeral procession, tinkling
their bells as they go along.

EDGAR MACCULLOCH.

Guernsey.

"Warple-way" (Vol. ix., p. 125.).--The communications of your correspondents (Vol. ix., p.
232.) can scarcely be called answers to the questions put.

I find, in Holloway's Dictionary of Provincialisms, 8vo., 1838, that a ridge of land is called,
in husbandry, a warp. It is defined to be a quantity of land consisting of ten, twelve, or
more ridges; on each side of which a furrow is left, to carry off the water.

Again, in Halliwell's Dictionary of Archaic and Provincial Words, two volumes, 1847, it will
be {479} found that warps are distinct pieces of ploughed land, separated by furrows. I think
I here give the derivation and meaning, and refer to the authority. If the derivation be not
here given, then I would refer to the Saxon word werpen, meaning "to cast."

Across marshy grounds, to this day, are seen ridges forming foot-paths, with a furrow on each
side. A ridge of this sort would formerly be, perhaps, a warple-way. Or perhaps a path across
an open common field, cast off or divided, as Halliwell mentions, by warps, would be a warple-way.

VIATOR.

Wapple-way, or, as on the borders of Surrey and Sussex it is called, waffel-way: and the gate
itself, waffel-gate. If it should appear, as in the cases familiar to me, these waffel-ways
run along the borders of shires and divisions of shires, such as hundreds, I would suggest
that they were military roads,--the derivation waffe (Ger.), weapon.

H. F. B.

Medal of Chevalier St. George (Vol. ix., pp. 105. 311.).--With reference to the observations
of your correspondents A. S. and H., I would beg to observe that, some time ago, I gave to
the Museum at Winchester a medal struck on the occasion of the marriage of Prince James F.
E. Stuart and M. Clementina Sobieski: on the obverse is a very striking head and bust of Clementina,
with this inscription:

 "Clementina, M. Britan., Fr., et Hib. Regina."

On the reverse is Clementina, driving an ancient chariot towards the Colosseum, with this inscription:
on the top--

 "Fortunam causamque sequor."

at the bottom--

 "Deceptis Custodibus.      MDCCXIX."

This latter inscription refers to her escape from Innspruck, where the princess and her suite
had been detained by the emperor's orders.

This marriage, to prevent which so many efforts were made, prolonged for eighty-eight years
the unfortunate House of Stuart.

E. S. S. W.

Shakspeare's Inheritance (Vol. ix., pp. 75. 154.).--Probably the following extracts from Littleton's
Tenures in English, lately perused and amended (1656), may tend to a right understanding of
the meaning of inheritance and purchase--if so, you may print them:

    "Tenant in fee simple is he which hath lands or tenement to hold to him
    and his heires for ever: and it is called in Latine feodum simplex;
    for feodum is called inheritance, and simplex as much to say as
    lawful or pure, and so feodum simplex is as much to say as lawfull or
    pure inheritance. For if a man will purchase lands or tenements in fee
    simple, it behoveth him to have these words in his purchase, To have
    and to hold unto him and to his heires: for these words (his heires)
    make the estate of inheritance, Anno 10 Henrici 6. fol. 38.; for if
    any man purchase lands in these words, To have and to hold to him for
    ever, or by such words, To have and to hold to him and to his assigns
    for ever; in these two cases he hath none estate but for terme of life;
    for that, that he lacketh these words (his heires), which words only
    make the estate of inheritance in all feoffements and grants."

    "And it is to be understood that this word (inheritance) is not only
    understood where a man hath lands or tenements by descent of heritage,
    but also every fee simple or fee taile that a man hath by his purchase,
    may be said inheritance; for that, thus his heires may inherite them.
    For in a Writ of Right that a man bringeth of land that was of his own
    purchase, the writ shall say, Quam clamat esse jus et hæreditatem
    suam, this is to say, which he claimeth to be his right and his
    inheritance."

    "Also purchase is called the possession of lands or tenements that a
    man hath by his deed or by his agreement, unto which possession he
    commeth, not by descent of any of his ancestors or of his cosins, but
    by his own deed."

J. BELL.

Cranbroke, Kent.

Cassock (Vol. ix., pp. 101. 337.).--A note in Whalley's edition of Ben Jonson has the following
remark on this word:

    "Cassock, in the sense it is here used, is not to be met with in our
    common dictionaries: it signifies a soldier's loose outward coat, and
    is taken in that acceptation by the writers of Jonson's times. Thus
    Shakspeare, in All's Well that Ends Well:

        'Half of the which dare not shake the snow from their cassocks.'"

This is confirmed in the passage of Jonson, on which the above is a note.

    "This small service will bring him clean out of love with the soldier.
    He will never come within the sign of it, the sight of a
    cassock."--Every Man in his Humour, Act II. Sc. 5.

The cassock, as well as the gown and band, seem to have been the usual attire of the clergy
on all occasions in the last century, as we find from the paintings of Hogarth and the writings
of Fielding, &c. When did this custom cease? Can any reader of "N. & Q." supply traditional
proof of clergymen appearing thus apparelled in ordinary life?

E. H. M. L.

Tailless Cats (Vol. ix., p. 10.).--On the day on which this Query met my eye, a friend informed
me that she had just received a letter from an American clergyman travelling in Europe, in
which he mentioned having seen a tailless cat in Scotland, called a Manx cat, from having come
{480} from the Isle of Man. This is not "a Jonathan." Perhaps the Isle of Man is too small
to swing long-tailed cats in.

UNEDA.

Philadelphia.

Mr. T. D. Stephens, of Trull Green, near this town, has for some years had and bred the Manx
tailless cat; and, I have no doubt, would have pleasure in showing them to your correspondent
SHIRLEY HIBBERD, should he ever be in this neighbourhood.

K. Y.

Taunton.

A friend of mine, who resided in the Park Farm, Kimberley, had a breed of tailless cats, arising
from the tail of one of the cats in the first instance having been cut off; many of the kittens
came tailless, some with half length; and, occasionally, one of a litter with a tail of the
usual length, and this breed continued through several generations.

G. J.

Names of Slaves (Vol. viii., p. 339.).--I can answer the first of J. F. M.'s Queries in the
affirmative; it being common to see in Virginia slaves, or free people who have been slaves,
with names acquired in the manner suggested: e. g. "Philip Washington," better known in Jefferson
county as "Uncle Phil.," formerly a slave of the Washingtons. A large family, liberated and
sent to Cape Palmas, bore the surname of "Davenport," from the circumstance that their progenitor
had been owned by the Davenports. In fact, the practice is almost universal. But fancy names
are generally used as first names: e. g. John Randolph, Peyton, Jefferson, Fairfax, Carter,
&c. A fine old body-servant of Col. Willis was called "Burgundy," shortened into "Uncle Gundy."
So that "Milton," in the case mentioned, may have been merely the homage paid to genius by
some enthusiastic admirer of that poet.

J. BALCH.

Philadelphia.

Heraldic (Vol. ix., p. 271.).--On the brass of Robert Arthur, St. Mary's, Chartham, Kent, are
two shields bearing a fess engrailed between three trefoils slipped: which may probably be
the same as that about which LOCCAN inquires, though I am unable to tell the colours. There
are two other shields bearing, Two bars with a bordure. The inscription is as follows:

    "Hic iacet d[=n]s Robertus Arthur quondam Rector isti' Eccli[=e] qui
    obiit xxviii^o die marcii A^o d[=n]i Mill[=o] CCCC^oLIIII^o. Cui'
    a[=i]e ppiciet' de' Am[=e]."

F. G.

Solar Annual Eclipse of 1263 (Vol. viii., p. 441.).--Mr. Tytler, in the first volume of his
History of Scotland, mentions that this eclipse, which occurred about 2 P.M. on Sunday, August
5, 1263, has been found by calculation to have been actually central and annular to Ronaldsvoe,
in the Orkneys, where the Norwegian fleet was then lying: a fine example, as he justly adds,
"of the clear and certain light reflected by the exact sciences on history." S. asks, is this
eclipse mentioned by any other writer? As connected with the Norwegian expedition, it would
seem not; but Matthew of Westminster (vol. ii. p. 408., Bohn's edit.) mentions it having been
seen in England, although he places it erroneously on the 6th of the month.

J. S. WARDEN.

Brissot de Warville (Vol. ix., p. 335.).--Brissot's Mémoires is a very common book in the original,
and has gone through several editions. The passage quoted by N. J. A. was only an impudent
excuse for an impudent assumption. Brissot, in his early ambition, wished to pass himself off
as a gentleman, and called himself Brissot de Warville, as Danton did D'Anton, and Robespierre
de Robespierre; but when these worthies were endeavouring to send M. de Warville to the scaffold
as an aristocrat, he invented this fable of his father's having some landed property at Ouarville
en Beauce (not Beance), and that he was called, according to the custom of the country, from
this place, where, it seems, he was put out to nurse. When the dread of the guillotine made
M. de Warville anxious to get rid of his aristocratic pretensions, he confessed (in those same
Mémoires) that his father kept a cook's shop in the town of Chartres, and was so ignorant that
he could neither read nor write. I need not add, that his having had a landed property to justify,
in any way, the son's territorial appellation, was a gross fiction.

C.

"Le Compère Mathieu" (Vol. vi., pp. 11. 111. 181.).--On the fly-leaf of my copy (three vols.
12mo., Londres, 1766) of this amusing work, variously attributed by your correspondents to
Mathurin Laurent and the Abbé du Laurens, is written the following note, in the hand of its
former possessor, Joseph Whateley:

    "Ecrit par Diderot, fils d'un Coutelier: un homme très licentieux, qui
    écrit encore plusieurs autres Ouvrages, comme La Religieuse, Les Bijoux
    méchant (sic), &c. Il jouit un grand rôle après dans la Révolution.

"J. W."

By the way, A. N. styles it "a not altogether undull work." May I ask him to elucidate this
phrase, as I am totally at a loss to comprehend its meaning. "Not undull" must surely mean
dull, if anything. The work, however, is the reverse of dull.

WILLIAM BATES.

Birmingham.

Etymology of "Awkward" (Vol. viii., p. 310.--H. C. K. has probably given the true derivation
of this word, but he might have noticed the {481} singularity of one Anglo-Saxon word branching
off into two forms, signifying different ways of acting wrong; one, awkward, implying ignorance
and clumsiness; the other, wayward, perverseness and obstinacy. That the latter word is derived
from the source from which he deduces awkward, can, as I conceive, admit of no doubt.

J. S. WARDEN.

Life and Death (Vol. ix., p. 296.).--What is death but a sleep? We shall awake refreshed in
the morning. Thus Psalm xvii. 15.; Rom. vi. 5. For the full meanings, see these passages in
the original tongues.

Can any of your correspondents say in what work the following analogous passage occurs, and
who is the author of it? The stamp of thought is rather of the philosophic pagan than the Christian,
though the latinity is more monkish than classic:

 "Emori nolo, sed me esse mortuum, nihil curo."

J. L.

Dublin.

These notes remind my parishioners of an epitaph on a child in Morwenstow churchyard:

 "Those whom God loves die young!
    They see no evil days;
  No falsehood taints their tongue,
    No wickedness their ways!

 "Baptized, and so made sure
    To win their blest abode;
  What could we pray for more?
    They die, and are with God!"

R. H. MORWENSTOW.

Shelley's "Prometheus Unbound" (Vol. ix., p. 351.).--I offer a conjecture on the meaning of
the obscure passage adduced by J. S. WARDEN. It seems that Shelley intended to speak of that
peculiar feeling, or sense, which affects us so much in circumstances which he describes. With
the slight alterations indicated by Italics, his meaning I think will be apparent; though in
his hurry, or inadvertence, he has left his lines very confused and ungrammatical. (Vol. ix.,
p. 350.).--The latter was perhaps originally a mitre badly drawn, and worse copied, till it
received a new name from that it most resembled. The proper sign would be "The Three Crowns
and a Mitre," equivalent to "The Bishop's Arms:" if Franche was in the diocese of Ely, or Bristol,
the reference would be clearer. Similar changes are known to have happened.

G. R. YORK.

To the inquiry of CID, as to the meaning of the above sign of an inn, I answer that there can
be little doubt that its original meaning was the Pope's tiara.

F. C. H.

Stanza in "Childe Harold" (Vol. viii., p.258.).--I fear that, considering Lord Byron's cacography
and carelessness, a reference to his MS. would not mend the matter much; as, although the stanza
undoubtedly contains some errors due to the printer or transcriber for the press, the obscurity
and unconnected language are his lordship's own, and nothing short of a complete recast could
improve it materially: however, to make the verses such as Byron most probably wrote them,
an alteration of little more than one letter is required. For "wasted," read "washed;" to supply
the deficient syllable, insert "yet" or "still" after "they," and remove the semicolon in the
next line from the middle to the end of the verse. In plain prose, it means--

    "Thy waters washed their shores while they were independent, and do so
    still, although many a race of tyrants has successively reigned over
    them since then: their decay has converted many fertile regions to
    wildernesses, but thou art still unchanged."

Not having your earlier volumes at hand, I cannot be sure that these conjectures of mine are
original (the correction in the punctuation of the fourth line certainly is not), and have
only to request the {482} forbearance of any of your correspondents whose "thunder" I may have
unwittingly appropriated.

J. S. WARDEN.

Errors in Punctuation (Vol. viii., p. 217.).--Every one must agree with R. H. C. as to the
importance of correct punctuation; and it may easily be supposed how it must puzzle readers
of works whose language is in great part obsolete, to meet with mistakes of this kind, when
we find modern writers frequently rendered almost unintelligible by similar errors. To take
those whose works have, perhaps, been oftener reprinted than any others of this century, Byron
and Scott, the foregoing passage in Childe Harold is a signal instance; and as another, the
Sonnet translated by Byron from Vittorelli, has only had corrected in the very latest editions,
an error in the punctuation of the first two lines which rendered them a mystery to those who
did not understand the original, as printed on the opposite page. In note 12 to the 5th Canto
of Marmion, every edition, British or foreign, down to the present day, punctuates the last
two or three lines as follows:

    "A torquois ring;--probably this fatal gift is, with James's sword and
    dagger, preserved in the College of Heralds, London."

Sir Walter is thus made to express a doubt, which he never intended, as to the ring being there.
A comma after "ring," another after "gift," and the omission of the dash, will restore the
true meaning of the sentence.

J. S. WARDEN.

Waugh of Cumberland (Vol. ix., p. 272.).--John Waugh (D.C.L., Feb. 8, 1734)--born and educated
at Appleby, Fellow of Queen's College, Oxford; Rector of St. Peter's, Cornhill; Prebendary
of Lincoln; Dean of Gloucester,--was consecrated to the See of Carlisle Oct. 13, 1723: he died
Oct. 1734, and was buried in the church of St. Peter, Cornhill. He bore for arms: Arg., on
a chevron engrailed gules, three bezants.

MACKENZIE WALCOTT, M.A.

"Could we with ink," &c. (Vol. viii. passim).--Perhaps one more communication may find admission
on the above interesting lines. I received from a clerical friend, many years ago, a version
of them, which differs considerably from that given in "N. & Q.," Vol. viii., p. 127.

My friend did not profess to know who wrote these lines; but he understood that they were an
attempt to render in English verse a sublime passage of the great St. Augustin. It is highly
probable that this eminent Father was the original author of the passage. It is extremely like
one of his grand conceptions; but I have hitherto searched his voluminous works for it in vain.
Farrer. Oxford, 1638; or the later edition of 1650.

  Wanted by Mr. J. G. Nichols, 25. Parliament Street.

ARCHBISHOP LAWRENCE'S EXAMINATION OF GRIESBACH'S SYSTEMATIC CLASSIFICATION OF MSS.

  Wanted by Longman & Co., Paternoster Row.

POEMS ON SEVERAL OCCASIONS, by William Broome, LL.D. London, 1727-1739. 8vo.

ASSIZE SERMON, by the same. on Ps. cxxii. 6. 4to. 1737.

SERMON, by the same, on 1 Tim. ii. 1, 2. 8vo. 1700.

  Wanted by T. W. Barlow, St. James' Chambers, Manchester.

OSW. CROLLIUS'S ADMONITORY PREFACE, in English. London, 1657. 8vo.

------ THE MYSTERIES OF NATURE. London. 1657. 8vo.

------ ON SIGNATURES. London, 1669.

WARREN'S COLLECTION OF GLEES. Wanted, to perfect the Set, Nos. 7. 10. 17. 25. and 27 to 32
inclusive. Any one possessing the above, or a portion of them, may hear of a purchaser, upon
application at Novello's Sacred Music Warehouse, 69. Dean Street, Soho Square.

----

The following Works of Symon Patrick, late Lord Bishop of Ely, &c.:--

SERMON AT THE FUNERAL OF MR. JOHN SMITH, 1652.

DIVINE ARITHMETIC, Sermon at the Funeral of Mr. Samuel Jacomb, June 17, 1659.

ANGLIÆ SPECULUM, Sermon at the Fast, April 24, 1678.

SERMON AT COVENT GARDEN, Advent Sunday, 1678.

SERMON ON ST. PETER'S DAY, with enlargements. 1687.

SERMON ON ST. MARK'S DAY, 1686.

FAST SERMON BEFORE THE KING AND QUEEN, April 16, 1690: Prov. xiv. 34.

EXPOSITION OF THE TEN COMMANDMENTS, 1665.

DISCOURSE CONCERNING PRAYER.

THE PILLAR AND GROUND OF TRUTH, 4to. 1687.

EXAMINATION OF BELLARMINE'S SECOND NOTE OF THE CHURCH, viz., Antiquity. 4to. 1687.

EXAMINATION OF THE TEXTS WHICH PAPISTS CITE OUT OF THE BIBLE TO PROVE THE SUPREMACY OF ST.
PETER, &c. 1688.

ANSWER TO A BOOK ENTITLED "THE TOUCHSTONE OF THE REFORMED GOSPEL." 1692.

A PRIVATE PRAYER TO BE USED IN DIFFICULT TIMES.

A THANKSGIVING FOR OUR LATE WONDERFUL DELIVERANCE, 1689.

  Wanted by the Rev. Alexander Taylor, 3. Blomfield Terrace, Paddington.

{483}

THE ADVANCEMENT OF ARTS, MANUFACTURES, AND COMMERCE, or a Description of Machines and Models,
&c., contained in the Repository of the Society of Arts, &c. By William Bailey, Registrar of
the Society, 1772.

A REGISTER OF THE PREMIUMS AND BOUNTIES GIVEN BY THE SOCIETY FOR THE ENCOURAGEMENT OF ARTS,
MANUFACTURES, AND COMMERCE, from the original Institution in the year 1754 to 1776 inclusive.
Printed for the Society by James Phillips. 1778.

  Wanted by P. Le Neve Foster, 7. Upper Grove Lane, Camberwell.

SCOTT'S POETICAL WORKS. 8vo. 1830. Vol. I., or the "Minstrelsy," of that date.

SOUTHEY'S BRAZIL. 4to. Vols. II. and III.

SALAZAR, HISTORIA DE LA CONQUISTA DE MEXICO. Fol. 1743 or 1786.

PERCY SOCIETY'S PUBLICATIONS, 93 and 94. (1l. will be given for them.)

  Wanted by J. R. Smith, 36. Soho Square.

ARCHÆOLOGIA, Numbers or Volumes, from Vol. XXV. to Vol. XXIX. inclusive.

  Wanted by James Dearden, Upton House, Poole, Dorset.

       *       *       *       *       *

Notices to Correspondents.

We have been induced, by the number of articles we have in type writing for insertion, to omit
our usual NOTES ON BOOKS, &c.

AGMOND. Cecil was written by Mrs. Gore.

F. M. M. Balaam Box has long been used in Blackwood as the name of the depository of rejected
articles. The allusion is obvious.

H. M. H. will find all the information he can desire respecting The Gentlemen at Arms, in Pegge's
Curialia; Thiselton's Memoir of that Corps, published in 1819; or, better still, Curling's
Account of the Ancient Corps of Gentlemen at Arms, 8vo. 1850.

J. C. K. The coin is a very common penny of Henry III., worth ninepence, or a shilling at most.

BALLIOLENSIS. Porson's jeu d'esprit is reprinted in the Facetiæ Cantabrigienses (1850). p. 16.

ENQUIRER. A triolet is a stanza of eight lines, in which, after the third the first line, and
after the sixth the first two lines, are repeated, so that the first line is heard three times:
hence the name. It is suited for playful and light subjects, and is cultivated by the French
and Germans. The volume of Patrick Carey's Trivial Poems and Triolets, edited by Sir Walter
Scott, in 1820, from a MS. of 1651, is an early instance of the use of the term.

A. B. M. The line referred to--"Pride, pomp, and circumstance of glorious war"--is from Othello,
Act III. Sc. 3.

JARLTZBERG. Has not our Correspondent received a note we inclosed to him respecting The Circle
of the Seasons?

OLD MORTALITY'S offer of a collection of Epitaphs is declined with thanks. We have now waiting
for insertion almost as many as would fill a cemetery.

ABHBA. The proverb "Mad as a March hare" has appeared in our Fourth Volume, p. 208.--Also,
in the same volume, p. 309. &c., will be found several articles similar to the one forwarded
on "Bee Superstitions."

F. (Oxford.) The extract forwarded from Southey's Common Place Book is a copy of the title-page
of the anonymous work required.

H. C. M. The date of the earliest Coroner's Inquest, we should think, cannot be ascertained.
The office of Coroner is of so great antiquity that its commencement is not known. It is evident
that Coroners existed in the time of Alfred, for that king punished with death a judge who
sentenced a party to suffer death upon the Coroner's record, without allowing the delinquent
liberty to traverse. (Bac. on Gov. 66.; 6 Vin. Abr. 242.) This officer is also mentioned by
Athelstan in his charter to Beverly (Dugd. Monast. 171.).

I. R. R. Henry Machyn was a citizen and merchant-tailor of London from A.D. 1550 to 1563. See
a notice of him prefixed to his Diary, published by the Camden Society.----An account of John
Stradling, the epigrammatist, will be found in Wood's Athenæ (Bliss), vol. ii. p. 396.----Hockday,
or Hokeday, is a high-day, a day of feasting and mirth, formerly held in England the second
Tuesday after Easter, to commemorate the destruction of the Danes in the time of Ethelred.----For
notices of George Wither in the Gentleman's Mag., see vol. lxxxvi. pt. ii. 32. 201.; vol. lxxxvii.
pt. i. 42.; vol. lxxxviii. pt. i. 138.----An interesting account of the Paschal Eggs is given
in Hone's Every-Day Book, vol. i. p. 246., vol. ii. pp. 439. 450.; and in Brand's Popular Antiquities.----Marvell's
reference is probably to Charles Gerard, afterwards created Baron Gerard of Brandon, gentleman
of the bed-chamber to Charles II., and captain of his guards.

W. S. The lens is certainly very good; you should practise to obtain an accurate focus on the
ground glass. An experienced hand will often demonstrate how much the actual sharpness of a
picture depends upon nice adjustment of the focus; for though the picture looks pretty, it
is not sharp in detail.

PHOTO. We hope shortly to be enabled to report upon the new paper manufacturing by Mr. Saunders
for photographic purposes.

       *       *       *       *       *

PHOTOGRAPHIC CAMERAS.

OTTEWILL AND MORGAN'S Manufactory, 24. & 25. Charlotte Terrace, Caledonian Road, Islington.

OTTEWILL's Registered Double Body Folding Camera, adapted for Landscapes or Portraits, may
be had of A. ROSS, Featherstone Buildings, Holborn; the Photographic Institution, Bond Street;
and at the Manufactory as above, where every description of Cameras, Slides, and Tripods may
be had. The Trade supplied.

       *       *       *       *       *

PHOTOGRAPHIC APPARATUS.--MR. JOHN J. GRIFFIN has now ready an entirely NEW CATALOGUE OF PHOTOGRAPHIC
APPARATUS AND CHEMICALS at Reduced Prices; embracing an account of every article required for
the processes on Silver, Paper, and Glass, with estimates of the cost of complete sets for
Home Use and for Travellers. Postage Fourpence.

JOHN J. GRIFFIN, F.C.S., Chemist and Optician, 10. Finsbury Square, London.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO PHOTOGRAPHERS, DAGUERREOTYPISTS, &c.-- Instantaneous Collodion (or Collodio-Iodide Silver).
Solution for Iodizing Collodion. Pyrogallic, Gallic, and Glacial Acetic Acids, and every Pure
Chemical required in the Practice of Photography, prepared by WILLIAM BOLTON, Operative and
Photographic Chemist, 146. Holborn Bars. Wholesale Dealer in every kind of Photographic Papers,
Lenses, Cameras, and Apparatus, and Importer of French and German Lenses, &c. Catalogues by
Post on receipt of Two Postage Stamps. Sets of Apparatus from Three Guineas.

       *       *       *       *       *

COLLODION PORTRAITS AND VIEWS obtained with the greatest ease and certainty by using BLAND
& LONG'S preparation of Soluble Cotton; certainty and uniformity of action over a lengthened
period, combined with the most faithful rendering of the half-tones, constitute this a most
valuable agent in the hands of the photographer.

Albumenized paper, for printing from glass or paper negatives, giving a minuteness of detail
unattained by any other method, 5s. per Quire.

Waxed and Iodized Papers of tried quality.

Instruction in the Processes.

*** Catalogues sent on application.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SIGHT preserved by the Use of SPECTACLES adapted to suit every variety of Vision by means
of SMEE'S OPTOMETER, which effectually prevents Injury to the Eyes from the selection of Improper
Glasses, and is extensively employed by

BLAND & LONG, Opticians, 153. Fleet Street, London.

       *       *       *       *       *

{484}

IMPERIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY.

1. OLD BROAD STREET, LONDON.

Instituted 1820.

----

SAMUEL HIBBERT, ESQ., Chairman. WILLIAM R. ROBINSON, ESQ., Deputy-Chairman.

----

The SCALE OF PREMIUMS adopted by this Office will be found of a very moderate character, but
at the same time quite adequate to the risk incurred.

FOUR-FIFTHS, or 80 per cent. of the Profits, are assigned to Policies every fifth year, and
may be applied to increase the sum insured, to an immediate payment in cash, or to the reduction
and ultimate extinction of future Premiums.

ONE-THIRD of the Premium on Insurances of 500l. and upwards, for the whole term of life, may
remain as a debt upon the Policy, to be paid off at convenience; or the Directors will lend
sums of 50l. and upwards, on the security of Policies effected with this Company for the whole
term of life, when they have acquired an adequate value.

SECURITY.--Those who effect Insurances with this Company are protected by its Subscribed Capital
of 750,000l., of which nearly 140,000l. is invested, from the risk incurred by Members of Mutual
Societies.

The satisfactory financial condition of the Company, exclusive of the Subscribed and Invested
Capital, will be seen by the following Statement:

  On the 31st October, 1853, the sums
  Assured, including Bonus added,
  amounted to                          £2,500,000

  The Premium Fund to more than           800,000

  And the Annual Income from the
  same source, to                         109,000

Insurances, without participation in Profits, may be effected at reduced rates.

  SAMUEL INGALL, Actuary.

       *       *       *       *       *

PIANOFORTES, 25 Guineas each.-D'ALMAINE & CO., 20. Soho Square (established A.D. 1785) sole
manufacturers of the ROYAL PIANOFORTES, at 25 Guineas each. Every instrument warranted. The
peculiar advantages of these pianofortes are best described in the following professional testimonial,
signed by the majority of the leading musicians of the age:--"We, the undersigned members of
the musical profession, having carefully examined the Royal Pianofortes manufactured by MESSRS.
D'ALMAINE & CO., have great pleasure in bearing testimony to their merits and capabilities.
It appears to us impossible to produce instruments of the same size possessing a richer and
finer tone, more elastic touch, or more equal temperament, while the elegance of their construction
renders them a handsome ornament for the library, boudoir, or drawing-room. (Signed) J. L.
Abel, F. Benedict, H. R. Bishop, J. Blewitt, J. Brizzi, T. P. Chipp, P. Delavanti, C. H. Dolby,
E. F. Fitzwilliam, W. Forde, Stephen Glover, Henri Herz, E. Harrison, H. F. Hassé, J. L. Hatton,
Catherine Hayes, W. H. Holmes, W. Kuhe, G. F. Kiallmark, E. Land, G. Lanza, Alexander Lee,
A. Leffler, E. J. Loder, W. H. Montgomery, S. Nelson, G. A. Osborne, John Parry, H. Panofka,
Henry Phillips, F. Praegar, E. F. Rimbault, Frank Romer, G. H. Rodwell, E. Rockel, Sims Reeves,
J. Templeton, F. Weber, H. Westrop, T. H. Wright," &c.

D'ALMAINE & CO., 20. Soho Square. Lists and Designs Gratis.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHUBB'S FIRE-PROOF SAFES AND LOCKS.--These safes are the most secure from force, fraud, and
fire. Chubb's locks, with all the recent improvements, cash and deed boxes of all sizes. Complete
lists, with prices, will be sent on application.

CHUBB & SON, 57. St. Paul's Churchyard, London; 28. Lord Street, Liverpool; 16. Market Street,
Manchester; and Horseley Fields, Wolverhampton.

       *       *       *       *       *

BANK OF DEPOSIT.

No. 3. Pall Mall East, and 7. St. Martin's Place, Trafalgar Square, London.

Established A.D. 1844.

INVESTMENT ACCOUNTS may be opened daily, with capital of any amount.

       *       *       *       *       *

AS SECRETARY OR AMANUENSIS.

A GENTLEMAN who is quite Conversant with the French, German, and Italian Languages, and well
acquainted with Botany and Entomology, is desirous of obtaining some permanent Employment.
The most satisfactory References as to competency and respectability of family and connections
can be given.

Address, F. G. H., care of MR. NEWMAN, Printer, 9. Devonshire Street, Bishopsgate Street.

       *       *       *       *       *

ALLSOPP'S PALE or BITTER ALE.--MESSRS. S. ALLSOPP & SONS beg to inform the TRADE that they
are now registering Orders for the March Brewings of their PALE ALE in Casks of 18 Gallons
and upwards, at the BREWERY, Burton-on-Trent; and at the under-mentioned Branch Establishments:

  LONDON, at 61. King William Street, City.
  LIVERPOOL, at Cook Street.
  MANCHESTER, at Ducie Place.
  DUDLEY, at the Burnt Tree.
  GLASGOW, at 115. St. Vincent Street.
  DUBLIN, at 1. Crampton Quay.
  BIRMINGHAM, at Market Hall.
  SOUTH WALES, at 13. King Street, Bristol.

MESSRS. ALLSOPP & SONS take the opportunity of announcing to PRIVATE FAMILIES that their ALES,
so strongly recommended by the Medical Professions, may be procured in DRAUGHT and BOTTLES
GENUINE from all the most RESPECTABLE LICENSED VICTUALLERS, on "ALLSOPP'S PALE ALE" being specially
asked for.

When in bottle, the genuineness of the label can be ascertained by its having "ALLSOPP & SONS"
written across it.

       *       *       *       *       *

Patronised by the Royal Family.

TWO THOUSAND POUNDS for any person producing Articles superior to the following:

THE HAIR RESTORED AND GREYNESS PREVENTED.

BEETHAM'S CAPILLARY FLUID is acknowledged to be the most effectual article for Restoring the
Hair in Baldness, strengthening when weak and fine, effectually preventing falling or turning
grey, and for restoring its natural colour without the use of dye. The rich glossy appearance
it imparts is the admiration of every person. Thousands have experienced its astonishing efficacy.
Bottles 2s. 6d.; double size, 4s. 6d.; 7s. 6d. equal to 4 small; 11s. to 6 small; 21s. to 13
small. The most perfect beautifier ever invented.

SUPERFLUOUS HAIR REMOVED.

BEETHAM'S VEGETABLE EXTRACT does not cause pain or injury to the skin. Its effect is unerring,
and it is now patronised by royalty and hundreds of the first families. Bottles, 5s.

BEETHAM'S PLASTER is the only effectual remover of Corns and Bunions. It also reduces enlarged
Great Toe Joints in an astonishing manner. If space allowed, the testimony of upwards of twelve
thousand individuals, during the last five years, might be inserted. Packets, 1s.; Boxes, 2s.
6d. Sent Free by BEETHAM, Chemist, Cheltenham, for 14 or 36 Post Stamps.

    Sold by PRING, 30. Westmorland Street; JACKSON, 9. Westland Row; BEWLEY
    & EVANS, Dublin; GOULDING, 108. Patrick Street, Cork; BARRY, 9. Main
    Street, Kinsale; GRATTAN, Belfast; MURDOCK, BROTHERS, Glasgow; DUNCAN &
    FLOCKHART, Edinburgh. SANGER, 150. Oxford Street; PROUT, 229. Strand;
    KEATING, St. Paul's Churchyard; SAVORY & MOORE, Bond Street; HANNAY,
    63. Oxford Street; London. All Chemists and Perfumers will procure
    them.
1854.

