The propagating pit above described is used for the propagation of all kinds of plants grown
by florists, such as Camellias, Dahlias, Roses, Verbenas, Fuchsias, Grape Vines, etc. The time
required in rooting cuttings of soft or young wood is from seven to ten days. Last season,
during the month of February, we took three crops of cuttings from it, numbering in the aggregate
forty thousand plants, without a loss of more than one per cent. In fact, by this system we
are now so confident of success, that only the number of cuttings are put in corresponding
with the number of plants wanted, every cutting put in becoming a plant.

In this narrative of our system of propagating, Mr. Editor, I have not attempted to theorize.
I give the plain statement of operations as we practice them, thoroughly believing that the
want of success in every case must be owing to a deviation from these rules. Ignoring entirely
most of the maxims laid down in the books, such as "use a sharp knife," and "cut at a joint,"
we use scissors mostly in lieu of a knife, and we never look for a joint, unless it happens
to come in the way. We are equally skeptical as to the merits of favorite kinds and colors
of sands or other compounds used for the purpose. Of this we have reason to be thankful, for
a nicety of knowledge in this particular in the head of a scientific (?) propagator may sometimes
become an expensive affair.

A friend of mine, a nurseryman from the far west, deeply impressed with our superior horticultural
attainments in the Empire City, hired a propagator at a handsome salary, and duly installed
him in his green-house department; but, alas! all his hopes were blighted. John failed--signally
failed--to strike a single cutting; and on looking about him for the cause, quickly discovered
that the fault lay entirely in the sand! but my gullible friend, to leave no stone unturned,
freighted at once two tons of silver sand from New York to Illinois! Need I tell the result,
or that John was soon returned to where the sand came from?"

During the past year, Mr. Henderson has erected an extensive range of houses, after the following
description and plan:

"I have read and examined from time to time, with much interest, your remarks and sketches
of Plant Houses, and it is not to dissent from your views that I now write, although it seems
to me that your ideas run all one side of the matter, for your designs and descriptions are
almost exclusively of an ornamental character, and adapted only for conservatories or graperies,
leaving the uninitiated commercial nurseryman or florist to look in vain for something to suit
his case. I have said that your ideas seem to be one-sided, in describing only ornamental erections;
they seem also so in your uniformly recommending the fixed roof principle. Now, for the purposes
of the florist or nurseryman, I think there is but little doubt that the advantage is with
the sash over the fixed roof. The difference in cost is trifling; probably a little in favor
of the fixed roof; but balanced against that is, that your house, once erected on your favorite
plan, you are emphatically "fixed." It is not portable, (unless made in sections, which is
only a bad compromise with the sash plan,) and any alteration requiring to be made, your roof
is of but little or no value. But the most serious objection to it is the difficulty with air.
I have never yet seen a house built on the fixed roof principle that had means of giving air
so that plants could be grown in a proper manner, and I could name dozens who have been induced
to build on this plan, that one year's experience has given them much reason to regret.

We are now adopting for plant houses, low, narrow, span-roofed buildings, formed by 6 feet
sashes, one on each side, the ends of the houses facing north and south. These we attach three
together, on the "ridge and furrow" system, as shown in sketch. This system presents great
advantages, and, by using no cap on the ridge piece, air is given in the simplest and safest
manner, by the sash being raised by an iron bar 9 or 10 inches long, pierced with holes, which
answers the double purpose of giving air and securing the sash, when closed, from being blown
off by heavy winds. There is no necessity for the sashes being hinged at the bottom, as might
be supposed; all that is required being to nail a cleet along the wall plate, fitted tight
to the bottom of each sash. Every alternate sash is nailed down; the other is used in giving
air in the manner described.

The advantages of such erections are so obvious, that I need not trespass much on your space
to enumerate them. The plan can be adapted to detached buildings already up, by erecting houses
of the same length alongside; or, in the erection of new houses, if not more than one is wanted,
it may be put up with a view to further extensions. I have had four houses on this plan in
operation for nearly two years, and I have never before had so much satisfaction with any thing
of the kind. Intending next season to remove my green-houses from their present site, all shall
be put up after this style."

Messrs. Parsons & Co., of Flushing have also built several houses similar in design for the
propagation of grape vines. These latter are heated by brick flues and have proved very satisfactory.
The vines are grown in beds and not staked. Pot culture in the usual manner would require greater
height of roof. The only objection that we can see to houses built in this manner is the accumulation
of snow in the furrows. Mr. Henderson assures us that this is not an objection of any moment
in this latitude, and that the expense attending the removal of snow is too slight to be considered.

DESIGN No. 1.

Figures 5 and 6 are a section and ground plan of a propagating house for growing grape vines,
but it might serve as well for other plants. The length of the house is on an east and west
line, giving a northern exposure to the roof on one side, the opposite facing the south. A
board partition runs through the centre dividing the house into two. This partition might be
made movable, so that at any time the house could all be thrown into one. The foundations are
of stone projecting 6 inches above the ground. Two and a half feet of vertical boarding, above
which is two feet of sash, give a height of four and a half feet above the foundation for the
side of the house. The side sashes are hinged for ventilation. Top ventilation is afforded
at the ridge by ventilators raised by rods from the inside. The roof is on the fixed principle
that is composed of sash bars extending from plate to ridge, in which the glass is set. In
the north division a combination of the tank and flue systems of heating is adopted, by which
economy of fuel to a considerable extent is effected. The boiler is so set that the back of
it and all the connecting pipes are inside of the house, only the fire and ash pit doors project
through the brick partition into the boiler pit. Much heat is generally wasted from hot water
boilers by the direct connection of the chimney with the outer air, that might be saved by
means of a well constructed flue. It will be seen that the smoke from the boiler is carried
under the tank, in this instance through 8 inch vitrified drain pipe. To prevent the cracking
of the pipe near the boiler the first 6 or 8 feet is laid with cast iron pipe. Wooden tanks
built on posts and elevated two feet above the floor furnish bottom heat. These tanks are two
feet six inches wide and six inches deep, built of 1-1/4 inch pine, well put together with
white lead and securely nailed and screwed. A division through the centre separates the flow
and return water. Roofing slate of proper size is used to cover the top, the joints of which
are carefully cemented to prevent the escape of steam. Sand is placed directly on the slate
as a plunging material for the pots containing cuttings. In the south division tanks are also
used, but as the plants are potted off when placed there, bottom heat is not so necessary;
the sand is dispensed with and the pots rest on a shelf or table built about two inches above
the tanks, allowing the heat radiated from the slate to diffuse itself through the house. Slides
in each tank afford means of shutting off the water allowing each house to be worked independently.
The centre of house is occupied by an earth bed in which the plants (after becoming well rooted
in the small pots, to which they are first transferred from the cutting pots) are carefully
transplanted and will form large and vigorous vines by the end of the season.

DESIGN No. 2.

In Figure 7 is given a perspective view of a propagating house of an ornamental character.
It is intended for forcing early vegetables, strawberries, grapes in pots, and such general
propagation of plants as are needed on a country place of moderate extent. The curvilinear
roof gives beauty to the design as well as affording more head room inside than the ordinary
straight rafter.

The pitch of the roof is quite flat, a straight line between the ends of the rafter forming
an angle of only 28 degrees with the horizon. It was desirable to have the roof as low as was
consistent with sufficient head room, that the plants might be as near the glass as possible,
without the necessity of high staging in the centre. The house has the ends to the east and
west. At the west end is an ante-room, not shown in perspective view, containing the boiler,
seed drawers, desk, &c. On the north side of house are beds for propagating plants, and the
south side is used for early vegetables, strawberries, &c. In the centre is a large bed of
earth used for grapes in pots, vegetables and plants. A portion of the roof on the south side
can be raised when it is desirable to harden off the plants in spring. The foundation is of
wood, locust posts being used, with boards nailed upon both sides and coated with coal tar.
The house is forty one feet long and sixteen feet wide, and is heated by a tank constructed
as follows: brick piers are built three feet apart on which are laid common blue flag stones
six feet long and two feet wide. The sides and divisions of the tanks are built of brick, and
cemented inside. One of Hitchings & Co.'s boilers furnishes the heat, and is connected with
the tank by two inch iron pipe. Above the tanks are the propagating beds as shown in figure
8. The tank, with the exception of that part across the end of the house is covered with beds
and no provision is made for other heat than that radiated from the sides, and that portion
left uncovered at the end. In the practical working of the house, this has been found insufficient,
and pipes have been introduced for atmospheric heat, the tanks being still retained for bottom
heat.

DESIGN No. 3.

The following plan is similar to the one previously given, and was erected for the same general
purposes. It has, however, been found to answer so well for a general green-house, that there
is but little forcing or propagation carried on. At the east end is the boiler pit, seed room,
&c.; the roof of which is of tongued and grooved boards bent to the curve of the roof and battened.
The foundation is of stone, and the whole house of a substantial character. Bottom heat is
furnished by brick tanks built in the same manner as before described, the water in which is
heated by iron pipes running through the tanks (see section Fig. 12.) The pipes being also
used to heat a grapery near by on a higher level, it was necessary to carry them thus. This
arrangement for bottom heat is not as good as when the water flows directly into the tank from
the boiler. There is a large bed in centre of house in which pots of plants are plunged, and
considerable shelving at ends of house. Bottom ventilation is obtained by six inch earthen
drain pipe, placed on a level with the floor inside and running through the wall and up to
the surface of the ground outside, where they are covered with wooden caps for regulating the
amount of air required. Ventilators are placed over the doors and in the opposite end of house,
in addition to which, the sash in the doors are hinged and can be opened when needful.

DESIGN No. 4.

This design combines a grapery, and forcing, and propagating house in one. Figs. 13, 14, 15,
show side elevation, south front, and section through the centre. The dimensions are twenty
feet in width by forty three feet in length, to which ten feet have since been added, enclosing
boiler pit C. and potting room not shown in sketch. The foundation is built on locust posts
with plank nailed upon both sides. Such foundations we do not advocate, as they are a bill
of expense, for needful repairs, every four or five years, and the additional outlay for permanent
brick or stone foundations is money well invested. In the present case, the owners wishes were
carried out. On the ground plan, that part designated A. is devoted to the growth of grapes.
The border is all inside of the house and is about three feet in depth. At the dotted line
a wall is built across the house to sustain the border, the floor of B. being two feet lower.
The central portion of B. is devoted to grapes in pots. At the sides of B. are beds for propagating
plants, forcing vegetables, &c., furnished with bottom heat from brick tanks which extend entirely
around the house and heat the grapery part as well.

Pipes laid underground from the outside furnish fresh air when desired and ventilation in the
roof is also provided for.

DESIGN No. 5.

The following design is a house with a straight roof of low pitch, and was built with considerate
regard to cost, for which reason, among others, the foundations are of wood, and side lights
are omitted. The sides are of inch and a half plank nailed to locust posts, the space between
the inside and outside lining being filled with charcoal dust. Such foundations do very well
at first, but the wood in contact with the ground will decay in three or four years, and require
repairs--though locust posts will last for many years.

This house is quite narrow, being only twelve feet wide. It has tables on either side and a
walk in the middle, through which is a row of light posts to support climbing plants. Ventilation
is effected at the ridge by six ventilators. There are also ventilators over and in the doors.
The house is heated by two four inch pipes under the tables. The boiler pit is located in a
sunken shed outside, not shown in the plan. This house has been used for growing such plants
as are generally found in an amateur's collection, and has given satisfactory results.

DESIGN No. 6.

Our next illustration is of a green-house and grapery combined, seventy feet in length by twenty
feet wide. It is divided by a glass partition into two compartments, either of which can be
heated at pleasure from the same boiler, by means of cut-offs in the pipes. This house was
designed to be heated entirely by the tank system, but pipes were afterwards substituted except
for the propagating beds. This house is located on a large village lot at Kingston, N. Y.,
near the dwelling, and is in full view of the street. The exposure is all that could be desired,
and the protection from northerly winds perfect. A boiler pit is located outside, at the side
of the building, over which a handsome summer-house is built which shields it entirely from
view. The foundation is of brick, and the whole workmanship is first class. The side sashes
are three feet high, and each alternate one is hung for bottom ventilation. There are also
the usual ventilators in the roof.

DESIGN No. 7.

This design is for a Cold Grapery of low cost. The object contemplated is to secure a house
that shall answer the purpose intended, and be a complete working house in all its parts, without
unnecessary expense. The general outside appearance, Fig. 22, is similar to a plant house before
illustrated, the straight roof affording little opportunity for architectural variety. By referring
to Fig. 23, section, and Fig. 24, ground plan, it will be observed that rafters to support
the roof are dispensed with, except two at each end to form the verge and finish. The ridge
and purlins are supported by light 2x3 inch posts, which rest upon larger posts beneath the
ground. This is a considerable saving, both in material and workmanship. Posts set three feet
into the ground form the foundation for the sides and ends of the house. The sides are two
feet above the ground, and the entire structure is but ten feet in height, enabling the gardener
to reach nearly every part of the roof from the ground. The posts may appear to be an objection,
but in practice they are found not to be so, but are useful to train the vines upon. Five rows
of vines are planted, two in the usual manner at the sides, and one row along each line of
posts. The object in planting thus, was to get as much fruit as possible in the shortest space
of time. These centre vines will give several crops of good fruit before they will be much
interfered with by those trained upon the roof. 9x15 glass was used in glazing, to lessen the
expense of sash bars, the glass being laid the 15-inch way. This glass, being very true, has
made a good roof, but 10x12 is as large a size as will usually be found to answer. This house
is distinguished from most of our other designs by the greater amount of light admitted, owing
to the absence of rafters and the less than usual number of sash bars. The sides and ends are
boarded perpendicularly, and battened. Ventilators are provided on each side of the ridge and
over the doors, while the sashes hung in the doors furnish sufficient bottom ventilation. It
was desirable to have the house raised or appear higher owing to the slight depression of the
ground at the site, and for this reason the border was all made above the surface two feet
and a half in height, composed largely of decayed sods, with an addition of muck, coal and
wood ashes and a small quantity of stable manure. It has been found to work admirably, and
preserve an even moisture throughout. Elevated borders are highly recommended by some exotic
grape growers, and our experience with them is much in their favor. At present the inside border
is alone completed, as it was desirable to plant the vines, and sufficient materials were not
at hand to complete the whole. Vines were planted the 1st of June, 1864.

DESIGN No. 8.

THE POLYPROSOPIC ROOF.

Polyprosopic is not a dictionary word, at least we cannot find it in our two-volume large quarto
edition of Webster, but Loudon makes use of it to name a special form of roof sometimes made
use of in the construction of Horticultural buildings, the true meaning of which we believe
is, that the interior side or outline of the rafter is curvilinear and the exterior formed
of planes or faces.

A very extensive practice in the design and erection of Horticultural buildings of all classes
and for all purposes, from the low priced commercial shed to the finished crystal palaces,
that adorn our finest country seats, has led us to a more thorough investigation of this now
very important subject, and we have been enabled by a long practical experience in the construction
and practical management of Horticultural buildings to reach conclusions relative to form,
combination, heating and management that could not be arrived at in any other manner.

We have illustrated examples of the straight and curvilinear roofs, and now give the polyprosopic
roof, in which manner we have erected some half dozen graperies and plant houses.

This particular form of hot houses was described by Mr. Loudon in his encyclopedia of gardening
some thirty years ago, and he says, "he considers it to be the ne plus ultra of improvement
as far as air and light are concerned."

Mr. Leuchars in his practical treaties on hot-houses published some twelve or fifteen years
since, illustrates this form of house and says: "It is by some considered superior to all other
forms for winter forcing."

Mr. James Cranston of Birmingham, England, has also adopted this form of construction, which
in many respects he considers ahead of all others. It seems to have been very generally known
and used by many builders of glass-houses, and its numerous combinations of sliding, lifting,
and permanently fastened sash, has been public property for upwards of thirty years. Although
nearly approaching to the curvilinear, form it lacks the graceful beauty of a continuous curved
line, and as excessive ventilation so necessary in the climate of England, is not required
in our dry sunny atmosphere, the lifting or sliding sash roof is not considered so desirable
as the continuous fixed roof, which is at once the most beautiful and the most economical roof
yet introduced.

The principal advantage of the Polyprosopic roof, is its portability, that is, it can be made
in sashes, and transported to any portion of the country, thus obviating the necessity of painting
and glazing in the hot atmosphere of the interior, or loss of time from storms, etc., on outside
work. The fixed roof house can be sent anywhere primed, but the glazing and second coat of
paint must be done after the erection of the building; either house we think equally well adapted
to growing purposes, but as a matter of beauty and economy we give the preference to the fixed
curvilinear roof.

The engraving is a view of a Plant House, erected by us for Mr. Geo. H. Brown, on his beautiful
estate of Millbrook, near Washington Hollow, Duchess County, New York. The plan of the house
gives two nearly equal apartments, one to be used as a propagating and forcing house, and the
other as a conservatory or show house for plants and flowers. Both are heated by the circulation
of hot water and can be worked independently of each other. Such houses add very much to the
attractions of a country estate, and impress a stranger with a higher degree of taste and refinement,
while the owner has added very much to his luxuries and enjoyments.

DESIGN No. 9.

