THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION.

VOL. 17, No. 485.] SATURDAY, APRIL 16, 1831. [PRICE 2d.

       *       *       *       *       *

MOCHA.

"Bon pour la digestion," said the young Princess Esterhazy, when sent to bed by her governess
without her dinner; we say the same of coffee; and hope the reader will think the same of Mocha,
or the place whence the finest quality is exported.

Mocha, the coffee-drinker need not be told, is a place of some importance on the borders of
the Red Sea, in that part of Arabia termed "Felix," or "Happy." "The town looks white and cheerful,
the houses lofty, and have a square, solid appearance; the roadstead is almost open, being
only protected by two narrow spits of sand--on one of which is a round castle, and the other
an insignificant fort."

Lord Valentia[1] visited Mocha repeatedly during his examination of the shores of the Red Sea;
and his description is the most full and minute:--

    [1] From whose work the Engraving is copied.

"Its appearance from the sea is, he says, tolerably handsome, as all the buildings are white-washed,
and the minarets of the three mosques rise to a considerable height. The uniform line of the
flat-roofed houses is also broken by several circular domes of kobbas, or chapels. On landing
at a pier, which has been constructed for the convenience of trade, the effect is improved
by the battlements of the walls, and a lofty tower on which cannon are mounted, which advances
before the town, and is meant to protect the sea gate. The moment, however, that the traveller
passes the gates, these pleasing ideas are put to flight by the filth that abounds in every
street, and more particularly in the open spaces which are left within the walls, by the gradual
decay of the deserted habitations which once filled them. The principal building in the town
is the residence of the dola, which is large and lofty, having one front to the sea, and another
to a square. Another side of the square, which is the only regular place in the town, is filled
up by the official residence of the bas kateb, or secretary of state, and an extensive serai,
built by the Turkish pacha during the time that Mocha was tributary to the Grand Seignior.
These buildings externally have no pretensions to architectural elegance, yet are by no means
ugly objects, from their turretted tops, and fantastic ornaments in white stucco. The windows
are in general small, stuck into the wall in an irregular manner, closed with lattices, and
sometimes opening into a wooden, carved-work balcony. In the upper apartments, there is generally
a range of circular windows above the others, filled with thin strata of a transparent stone,
which is found in veins in a mountain near Sanaa. None of these can be opened, and only a few
of the lower ones, in consequence of which, a thorough air is rare in their houses; yet the
people of rank do not seem oppressed by the heat, which is frequently almost insupportable
to a European.

"The best houses are all facing the sea, and chiefly to the north of the sea gate. The British
factory is a large and lofty building, but has most of the inconveniences of an Arab house.

"The town of Mocha is surrounded by a wall, which towards the sea is not above sixteen feet
high, though on the land side it may, in some places, be thirty. In every part it is too thin
to resist a cannon-ball, and the batteries along shore are unable to bear the shock of firing
the cannon that are upon them.

"The climate of Mocha is extremely sultry,[2] owing to its vicinity to the arid sands of Africa,
over which the S.E. wind blows for so long a continuance, as not to be cooled in its short
passage over the sea below the Straits Babel Mandel.

    [2] From 90 to 95 deg. Fahr in July.

"Mocha, according to some learned natives, was not in existence four hundred years ago; from
which period we know nothing of it, till the discoveries and conquests of the Portuguese in
India opened the Red Sea to the natives of Europe."

Mrs. Lushington, in her interesting Journey from Calcutta to Europe, says, "the coffee-bean
is cultivated in the interior, and is thence brought to Mocha for exportation. The Arabs themselves
use the husks, which make but an inferior infusion. Every lady who pays a visit, carries a
small bag of coffee with her, which enables her 'to enjoy society without putting her friends
to expense.'"

Mocha coffee is in smaller berries than other kinds, and its flavour is extremely fine. Hundreds
of pages have been written on the origin and introduction of coffee as a beverage. In the Coffee-drinker's
Manual, translated from the French, we find it dated at the middle of the seventeenth century,
and in that quarter of Arabia wherein Mocha is situated.

       *       *       *       *       *

ORIGIN OF THE HOUSE OF COMMONS.

(To the Editor.)

As a general reader of your entertaining miscellany, I take the liberty to correct a mistake
in No. 481, relative to the Origin of the House of Commons, which is indirectly stated to have
originated from the Battle of Evesham. It is true that the earliest instance on record of the
assembling in parliament representatives of the people occurred in the same year with the battle
of Evesham; but it had no connexion whatever with the event of that engagement, since the parliament
(to which for the first time citizens and burgesses were summoned) was assembled through the
influence of the Earl of Leicester, who then held the king under his control; and the meeting
took place in the beginning of the year 1265, the writs of summons having been issued in November,
1264; while the battle of Evesham, in which the Earl of Leicester was killed, did not happen
till August 4, 1265, or between five and six months after the conclusion of the parliament.
From that period to the death of Henry III. in 1272, it does not appear that any election of
citizens or burgesses, to attend parliament, occurred. The next instance of such elections
seems to have happened in the 18th of Edward I.; and the first returns to such writs of summons
extant are dated the 23rd of the same reign, since which, with a few intermissions, they have
been regularly continued.

The correctness of these statements will appear from a reference to the 4th and 5th chapters
of Sir W. Betham's recently published work on "Dignities Feudal and Parliamentary," or to Sir
James Mackintosh's History of England.

M.

       *       *       *       *       *

We admit that the battle of Evesham, literally speaking, was not the origin of the House of
Commons, and wish our correspondent P.T.W. had furnished us with the name of the "modern writer"
who has made the assertion. At the same time it must be conceded that the fall of Simon de
Montfort, at Evesham, led to the more speedy consummation of the wished for object. Thus Sir
James Mackintosh, History of England, vol. i. p. 236, says--

