Proceeding more northward, we reached the entrance to the Midway Plaisance, directly east of
which stood, encompassed by luxuriant shrubs and beds of fragrant flowers, like a white silhouette
against the background of old and stately oaks, the daintily designed Woman's Building.

On a well paved boulevard we entered the great "Highway through the Nations." Formerly a promenade
belonging to the South Park System and connecting Jackson Park on the east and Washington Park
on the west, it was styled by the seekers of plaisir "Midway Plaisance" signifying "Pleasure-Way."
This name has been retained by the Administration of the World's Fair, whereas the country-lane
of former times had undergone a complete metamorphosis. We were unable to realize the radical
character of the transformation as we contemplated the enormous variety of attractions here
presented, more numerous and unlike any others ever brought together. Therefore, it is a very
difficult task to give the reader an exact idea of the impression the Midway Plaisance effected
upon its visitors, because we generally derive our conception of a scene from the comparison
it will bear with similar spectacles.

The "Highway through the Nations" constituted an attractive, novel, and instructive addition
to the Exposition. For, besides enlightening ourselves in regard to the styles of structures--inhabited
by the diverse nations on the earth,--forming a fine array of villages, castles, towers, pavilions,
pagodas, mosques, and other displays of oriental and occidental architecture, we viewed the
natives of the various countries. There were representatives of nearly all the races and tribes,
constituting the human population on our planet which is estimated to amount to 1,500,000,000
men. We had a chance to study their features, manners, and customs; their way of dressing,
as well as their language and special occupations. Such opportunities are only otherwise given
to travelers around the globe.

The rays of the descending sun--casting rosy reflections on the beautiful panorama and the
mammoth Ferris Wheel, with its gigantic form overtowering the structures of the Midway Plaisance--gave
us the signal for abandoning this charming realm.

Thus, directing our steps toward the Exposition Grounds, we arrived at the northwestern portion
of Jackson Park where we ascended the entrance to a station of the Columbian Intramural Railway,
the first and only electric elevated railroad, operated by the Third Rail Trolley System.--Conveyed
by the driving power of electricity, we had a delightful ride affording a fine view upon the
northern part of the grounds. Scores of graceful structures constituting a veritable town of
palaces, embodied the best conceptions of America's greatest architectural display.

A picturesque group of buildings erected by the States and Territories of the American Union,
rose in a semicircle around the Fine Arts Galleries, a palace costing half a million. Grecian-ionic
in style, this edifice represented a pure type of the most refined classic architecture. In
the western portion of this group--facing the North Pond--stood the Illinois Building, adorned
by a dome in the center, and a great porch looking southward.

Surrounded by lawns, walks, beds of flowers, and shrubs, the charming structures of Foreign
Nations were ranged on wide, curved avenues-- affording an interesting aspect.

Just south of the Foreign and State Buildings we observed a considerable expanse of the lagoon,
with inlet to the lake, encompassing three islands. On the largest one stood--contrasting agreeably
in appearance with the other edifices--the U.S. Fisheries Building, Spanish-Romanesque in style
and flanked at each end by a curved arcade connecting it with two polygonal pavilions.

Leaving the Intramural Train at the North Loop, we arrived at the Government Building; thus
having completed our round-trip on the Fair Grounds and Midway Plaisance.

When we returned to our floating home, we had the satisfaction of having obtained the best
possible results of our first visit by properly utilizing every minute.

It will be obvious to the reader that the excursion just described, was equivalent to a trip
around the world; wherefore I am entitled to the assertion that it even surpassed Nellie Bly's
remarkable feat who needed seventy-two days, six hours, and eleven minutes for accomplishing
her circumterraneous voyage.

This success was due to the management of Mr. James, who made his intelligence effectual, in
unison with great experience, gained by having attended the grand international expositions
held in the course of several decades in the different sections of the globe.

Since there did not exist accommodations for a safe anchorage for yachts along the piers of
the White City, we were obliged to sail back to the Chicago Harbor. The ride on the billows
of Lake Michigan, however, was very enjoyable after the heat of the day. Fanned by the cooling
sea-breezes, which we inhaled in the fullness of delight, our eyes rested in perfect rapture
on the glorious panorama of the grounds extending toward the lake shore. The superb structures
rising vaguely and obscurely in a shadowy expanse under the gloom of the growing twilight,
were later beautifully illuminated by uncountable electric lights; from the powerful arc-light
of 8,000 candles to the delicate incandescent lamp of one-sixteenth candle power gleaming like
tiny fire-flies in the distance. It filled us with amazement to cogitate, that human mind and
manual skill could create a spot on earth looking so much like a conception of paradise.

The next morning when corroborating our nerves by a hearty breakfast, Mr. James announced to
us the programme of the day which set forth that we should witness in detail the attractions
of the Midway Plaisance--a proposal that pleased us very much.

Having again disembarked at the pier of the Exposition Grounds, the Intramural Railway conveyed
us rapidly--running with a velocity of twelve miles an hour--to the entrance of the International
Highway.

We commenced with the attractions at the right hand side--and having passed the displays of
the Diamond Match Company and the Workingmen's Home--the international Dress and Costume Exhibit,
known as the Congress of Beauty, attracted our attention. Between forty and fifty pretty living
representatives pertaining to the fair sex of different nationalities, races, and types were
dressed in distinctive national or racial costumes.

The California Nursery and Citrus Tree Exhibit separated this Beauty Show from the Electric
Scenic Theater, which may be regarded as a triumph of the modern progress in the electrical
science. It depicted the changes of a beautiful Swiss Alpine scenery as such are gradually
occurring from dawn till night--representing the magical and most wonderfully realistic effects
ever produced by electric lamps.

Visiting the Libbey Glass Works, we obtained a very clear idea of the art of manufacturing
glass--by following up the different processes of melting, blowing, cutting, spinning, weaving
etc. all of which were in full operation in this exhibit.

In fact, the endeavor of this company to instruct the spectator in every detail of the work--was
a complete success and exceedingly satisfactory. The ingenious construction of their magnificent
building was especially adapted to enable the daily throngs--resorting to it--to have every
opportunity for observation; and judging from what we saw, and the various comments we heard,
we should be inclined to feel that the management had every reason to be satisfied with their
splendid effort.

The artistic products manufactured solely by this company, and shown in the diverse departments--as
well as those, decorating the Crystal Art Display Rooms--equal anything in the past and present,
not excepting the celebrated Bohemian and Venetian manufactures of world-wide fame; and certainly
the exhibition of cut glass made by the Libbey Company at this Exposition, has established
the fact, that foreign manufactures can no longer claim to turn out the best artistic work;
for truly, in that rich and unrivaled display, the summit of clear glass making and magical
effects in cutting and polishing have been achieved.

Especially attractive were the tapestries and fabrics woven from spun glass. This was decidedly
notable in the marvelous dress woven from one loom for the Spanish Princess Eulalia at a cost
of $2,500. That these goods also serve as a canvas does for artistic work--was evidently proved
by the sundry beautiful effects of this kind in the Crystal Art Room.--It would be impossible
to enumerate the various articles produced in this wonderful and interesting display; but it
is safe to say--the working exhibit of the Libbey Glass Company--in their palatial and costly
structure was one of the chief features of the Midway Plaisance and the ever memorable Columbian
Exposition.

A gateway--reminding us of mediaeval times--ushered the visitor into the Irish Village and
Donegal Castle, a representative exhibit of Irish industry, art, and antiquity. The scenes
there--were picturesque and uniquely Hibernian. In one of the cottages Irish lace-making could
be noted; in another was shown by Hibernians the whole process of dyeing, carding, spinning
and weaving home-spuns as well as various other branches of industrial developments in Ireland.

A few steps sufficed to transfer us from here--a representation of the extreme western portion
of Europe to the most eastern country on the Eastern Hemisphere--Japan; which fact demonstrated
the verity: Les extremes se touchent. Entering the Japanese bazaar, we observed Japanese ladies
and gentlemen selling articles manufactured in--and imported from Nipon.

A highly interesting study of the natives of West Java (Dutch East Indies)--their occupations--and
their bamboo huts--could be had in the Javanese Village exhibiting more than a hundred little
men with bright and cheerful Malay faces, and thirty-six short women whose graceful movements
were a source of attraction to thousands of visitors.

This scene of the tropical regions stood in striking contrast with a feature in immediate nearness--pertaining
to a temperate clime--the German Village. Here, in the spacious concert-garden shaded by the
dense foliage of numerous oak-trees, two German military bands, one of the infantry and one
of the cavalry--seventy-four men in all--gave grand echt deutsche Militaerconcerte. The group
of typical German peasant homes, the Black Forest House, the Westphalian Inn, the Upper Bavarian
Home, and the Spreewald House, together with the Hessian Rural Town-hall, and the Castle were
exact reproductions of mediaeval times. A portion of this stronghold from a remote date, was
given up to the ethnographic museum; a collection chiefly of implements of war and of chase,
illustrative of all periods beginning with the pre-historic and ending with the renaissance.
An attractive group in wax constituted the figure of Germania, surrounded by German heroes
from Arminius down to William I.

The Pompeii Panorama--near by--showed a very realistic representation of this city destroyed
by the eruption of the Vesuvius in 79. This display was succeeded by the Persian Theater and
the Model of the Eiffel Tower.

We left the crowded roadway, and entered the narrow Street in Cairo which made an imposing
impression with its strange, oriental facades--the picturesque shops--and the quaint overhanging
upper stories of the ancient Egyptian city. Natives of this African country--which is fertilized
by the waters of the Nile--manufactured and had for sale Egyptian, Arabian, and Soudanese articles.
Donkeys and camels were engaged in carrying visitors who chose to admire the busy thoroughfare
seated on the backs of these animals. The native camel-drivers in their national costumes moved
around and mingled with the strangers--which gave the populated street a peculiar charm to
the eye, whereas the "Bum-Bum Candy" sold by Egyptian confectioners, afforded a strange sensation
to the palate of the visitor.

Here, where the architecture, the surroundings, and the people were as far removed from anything
American as could well be imagined, we really--for some minutes--were lost to all consciousness
of being in that extremely modern city, called Chicago.

After having viewed the side attractions to which belonged the Egyptian temple--resembling
the temple of Luxor--the tombs of the ancient kings, and fac-similes of mummies, we entered
the Algerian and Tunisian Village. Besides a theater, it contained a great number of booths
or bazaars in which a choice selection of goods of all kinds--peculiar to Algiers--was for sale.

Proceeding southward through the frequented avenue, we saw--in succession--the Kilauea Panorama,
a vivid picture of the great volcano of Hawaii, with all the surrounding scenery--an American
Indian Village, showing the remnants of some of the greatest North American Indian tribes,
and their manner of living--and a Chinese Village including a theater, a joss house, and a bazaar.

The most southwestern portion of the Midway Plaisance was occupied by the "Wild East Show"
where performances were given by Bedouin Arabs. With their short Turkish swords--the cimeters--they
accomplished feats of such intrepidity and daring as to cause the spectators' blood to coagulate
in their veins.

Bending our steps westward again, our attention was fixed upon the attractions on the north;
id est on our right hand side.

Very striking to our eyes were two exhibits the comparison of which established the fact that
they were as unlike each other as could be fancied. Not only that the two villages contrasted
greatly by their external appearance; but the scenes and inhabitants that they encompassed,
were in direct opposition. Reader, can you realize that here from the North Pole to the Equator
there was but one step? Laplanders, from the Arctic region in Europe, the next-door neighbors
of barbarians from the Torrid Zone in Africa? Although both low in the scale of humanity, the
fierce and savage Natives of Dahomey with their repulsive habits exhibited the characteristics
of the very undermost order of mankind.

But the mind was at once relieved from this sad picture of human debasement by the refined
and attractive scenes in the Austrian Village, inclosing realistic reproductions of thirty-six
buildings as they existed, more than a century ago, in old Vienna, deservedly eulogized in
the song:

    Es gibt nur a Kaiserstadt
    Es gibt nur a Wien;
    Da muss es praechtig sein,
    Da moecht' ich hin!

