"How would you like to have a probe rammed through your hand twice a day?" demanded James with
a smile. "But it's all part of the game. Comforts for Tommy. Everyone has their own way of
making us happy, not forgetting the dear lady what sent us three hundred little lavender bags,
with pretty little bows on them, all sewn by herself, to keep our linen sweetly perfumed. It's
nice to think that they all mean well, and I always follow the advice of the auctioneer what
was trying to pass off a plated teapot as solid silver."

"What did he say?"

"Look at the bright side," answered James over his shoulder as he hurried away. "O reevwaw, Sir."

       *       *       *       *       *

    "On the night of February 29th ten thousand women marched
    through Unter Den London crying 'bread' and 'peace.'"

    Daily Gleaner (Kingston, Jamaica.)

We missed them in the Tube.

       *       *       *       *       *

"WAIT AND SEE."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PULLING OF PERCY'S LEG.

It was one of those calm quarters of an hour which sometimes happen even in a Y.M.C.A. canteen.
Private Penny, leaning over the counter, consumed coffee and buns and bestowed spasmodic confidences
upon me as I cut up cake into the regulation slices.

"Oxo and biscuits, please," broke in a languid voice suddenly, and a pale young man with an
armlet approached the counter. I turned away for the cup, and Private Penny, laying down his
mug, addressed the newcomer.

"Who are you?" he inquired genially.

The young man surveyed him with cold superiority; then he turned to me.

"I'm a DERBY man, you see," he began complacently. "A lot of pals'll be here presently, and
we're all going to join this afternoon. They're late."

"And what," I asked with resentment, for Private Penny was a friend of mine, "are you going
to join?"

It appeared that this superior person, after unprejudiced consideration of the matter, had
decided to join the A.S.C. He said he considered he would be of most use in the A.S.C.; he
said he was specially designed and constructed by Providence for the A.S.C.; he said....

And then suddenly we became aware that Private Penny was mourning gently to himself over a
dough-nut.

"Pore chap!" he was muttering, "pore young feller--'e don't know. None of 'em knows till it's
too late, and then they finds their mistake. No good to tell 'em--pore chap, pore chap--so
pleased over it, too!"

"What's that you're saying?" the youth cut in anxiously.

"Young man," said Private Penny very solemnly, "if you'd take my advice--the advice of one
that's served his country twelve months at the Front--you'd let the Army Service Corps alone.
Not that I'm doubting you're a plucky young feller enough, but you ain't up to that. It's nerve
you want for it. Well, I wouldn't take it on myself, and I'm pretty well seasoned. Why, you
'ave to go calmly into the mouth of 'ell with supplies, over the open ground, when the Infantry's
safe and snug in the trenches. You ain't strong enough for it--reely you ain't."

"Er--" hesitated the young man.

"Well, I had thought of the R.A.M.C. Mother's idea was----"

Private Penny groaned. "You know," he said with emotion, "I've took a kind of fancy to you,
Percy. And if it's me dying breath I says--don't! That kind of work ain't right nor proper
for the likes of you. Why, you 'ave to go out in the field there (and you ain't even armed,
nor protected, mind you!) and you 'ave to see the most orrerble sights! Can't I tell by yer
face, can't I see with me understanding eyes that you're the sort that would go mad in no time
if you 'ad some o' them things to do? If it's me last word----" Emotion choked him.

Percy looked wildly around. "There's the Artillery," he gasped, "if that's your advice."

Private Penny burst into a sob of uncontrollable anguish. "Percy," he moaned, "if you want
to break me heart, that's the way to do it! Say I've advised you to that, if you like, but
it ain't true. With all me soul I says--don't do it. Think, dear boy, think. Kinsider the guns!--the
noise--the smoke--the smell--the bursting shells all round--the mad horses and mules everywhere.
If you 'ave any affection for me in your 'eart, Percival, leave the guns alone! If you can't
control your courage for my sake--your fool'ardiness, Percy!--think of all your dear ones at
'ome and turn back before it is too late!"

Percy shuddered. "I might try the Engineers," he said hopelessly, "but I don't----"

"If," said Private Penny in the still tones of despair, "I have druv you to this, I shall cut
me throat. I can't live with that on me conscience. 'Ave you thought of the danger of mining
and sapping? 'Ave you kinsidered field telegrafts? 'Ave you--'ot-'eaded and impulsive as you
are--'ave you kinsidered anything? Percy, if you're set on this job, tell me quick, and put
me out of me agony!"

"No," said Percy abruptly. "But"--with sudden misgiving--"w-what can I do? I'm on my way to
join and I must join something."

Private Penny pushed his mug over to be re-filled. "I'm an infantryman myself," he said carelessly,
"and I speaks as one that knows. And wot I says is--if you wants a cheerful protected kinder
life, with a quiet 'ole to 'ide yer 'ead in--if you wants rest and comfort, kimbined with plenty
o' fresh air--if you wants to serve yer King and country without any danger to yer 'ealth,
then the infantry's the life for you, and the trenches is the place to spend it in. Ain't I
been out there one solid year, and no 'arm 'appened to me yet? It's child's play, that it is,
sitting there in a 'ole, with big guns booming over you protective-like from be'ind and killing
all the enemy in front for you. And yer food and yer love-letters brought to you regular, and
doctors and parsons to see you whenever you feels queer. Take my advice, Percy my son--join
the Infantry at once and make sure of a gentleman's life. I've took a fancy to you, and I tells
you straight." And he eclipsed himself behind his replenished mug.

"Thank you very much," said Percy gratefully, "I can see that the Infantry is the place for
me. I shall insist upon joining it. Thank you very much for all your advice----"

At this moment a great wave of khaki burst into the room and swept to the counter, clamouring
for attention. On the crest of it came Percy's friends in mufti, and once, across the tumult,
his voice reached my ears. "... quite decided...." he was saying loftily, "some infantry regiment
or other just seems...." and he was jostled away in the centre of an admiring group.

Involuntarily I looked across at Private Penny.

One eye met mine from behind an upturned mug, and the lid fell and rose again, once, rapidly;
he too had heard.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "A Council of War in the Desert.

    "British Officers are here seen holding a 'bow-wow.'"--Western
    Weekly News.

Very natural. In the desert most days are "dog-days."

       *       *       *       *       *

.

       *       *       *       *       *

HINTS TO MANAGERS.

A new and very popular addition to the comic opera, Tina, at the Adelphi, is a stage representation
of "Eve," the writer of "The Letters of Eve" in The Tatler, together with her retinue and her dog.

Here we see Journalism and the Drama more than ever mutually dependent, and the developments
of the idea might be numberless. Lord Times, in A Kiss for Cinderella, already illustrates
one of them; but why not a complete play, with favourite newspaper contributors as the dramatis
personæ? or a revue, to be called, say, The Tenth Muse, or Hullo, Inky!

Or, if not a whole play or revue, a scene could be arranged in which the great scribes processed
past. One group might consist of Carmelite Friars, with "Quex" and "The Rambler," each with
a luncheon host on one arm and a musical-comedy actress on the other; "An Englishman," with
his scourge of knotted cords, on his eternal but honourable quest for a malefactor; and "Robin
Goodfellow," still, in spite of war and official requests for economy, pointing to the glories
of the race-course and pathetically endeavouring to find winners. These would make an impressive
company--with a good song and dance to finish up with.

The Referee's contribution would obviously be too easy; it would simply be like a revival of
King Arthur. The audience, however, would be in luck when "Dagonet" got really warmed up to
tell yet once more the thrilling story of how he met HENRY PETTITT in the brave days of old.

A whiff of The Three Musketeers would exhilarate the house at the entry of "Chicot," the Jester
of The Sketch; while finally we might look for an excellent effect from "Claudius Clear" and
"A Man of Kent," of The British Weekly, masquerading as the Heavenly Twins.

These notes merely, of course, touch the fringe of a vast subject. Many other holders of famous
noms de guerre remain, such as "Mr. Gossip" and "Mrs. Gossip," and "Captain Coe" and "A Playful
Stallite," and "Historicus" and "Atlas" and "Scrutator" and "Alpha of the Plough"; but only
"Eve" has had the wit to include pictures of herself in every article; therefore only "Eve"
can be instantly recognised. These others, if they wish to be equally successful on the stage
(and it is certain they would like to be), must have always a portrait too. The Heavenly Twins
might like to use one, by Mr. WELLS, which already exists.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE DOVE.

I was at first inclined to look upon this dove as being largely symbolical. So far as I could
gather it had never been here before--at any rate no one could be found who had seen it here
or in the neighbourhood, and it seemed obvious that its sudden emergence, as it were, out of
nothing must have some high and dove-like signification.

Probably before the end of the week the KAISER would sue for peace and swallow Mr. ASQUITH'S
formula. Since then, however, Verdun has happened and VON TIRPITZ has gone, and nobody seems
in the least disposed to stop the crash of arms. That being so, and the dove being still with
us, I am forced, in spite of myself, to look upon it as an entirely real bird and to keep on
wondering what strange freak brought it to us and made it an honoured member of this household.

It arrived about ten weeks ago quite unexpectedly and suddenly. One morning there was no dove;
on the following morning, having fluttered hither from I know not what remote and solitary
region, it had perched on the branch of a poplar set close to the house. There it remained
while we breakfasted, and from that point of vantage it broke out into a long series of loud
and melodious cooings that sounded like nothing so much as a gurgling stream of benedictions
poured out over the house and those who dwelt in it by one who plainly proposed to be a grateful
though not a paying guest. It was wonderful to hear it.

From the branch this persistent and pleasing bird shortly removed itself to the window-sill
of one of the bedrooms, and into this room, when breakfast was over, the children trooped.
The dove was pecking eagerly at the window-pane. "Let's open the window for it," said one of
the girls, "and see what happens." Very gently, then, the window was opened, and what immediately
happened was that, without the least sign of alarm, nay rather with the air of one repeating
a customary action, the dove walked in, took a short flight, and settled on the toilet-table.
There it caught sight of its soft grey reflection in the looking-glass and at once began to
parade up and down before it, swelling itself out and bobbing its head in evident admiration
of the beautiful being so fortunately offered to its view. Soon it attempted to approach this
vision, but was surprised to find itself foiled by the cold impermeable surface of the glass.
Puzzled, but not, I think, definitely hopeless--it performs the same antics in one or other
of the bedrooms every day--it left the toilet-table, circled round the room and perched confidingly
on the shoulder of one of the little girls who were admiring it, and began once more to coo
in a very ecstasy of enjoyment.

Later on, food was provided for it, which it pecked up without the least shyness. Since then
it has established itself on a very firm clawing, if I may use the term, as a necessary inmate
of the house. Fluttering through the passages it follows the maids from room to room in the
morning and shows the most lively interest in their work while beds are being made or tables
dusted. It has the most perfect trustfulness, not merely allowing itself to be handled, but
coming to perch on a wrist or shoulder as if it had belonged there from, time immemorial. It
really is a pretty thing to have about the house, an embodiment of gentleness and kindness,
and, so far as a mere human being can judge, of an almost dog-like gratitude and affection.
I have seen a bullfinch swell up in a passionate agitation of love when from its cage it beheld
its dear mistress enter the room, but it had never occurred to me before this to attribute
such a feeling to a dove. I ought, I suppose, to have known better, as I now do. At this very
moment it is cooing away like mad at its declaration of undying love from its favourite haunt
on the mantelpiece of one of the bedrooms.

But it has another utterance which it employs at rare intervals. This is a sort of high-pitched
laugh thoroughly unsuited to its softness, a most cynical and derisive sound which in so kind
a beak seems to have neither meaning nor purpose. But I overlook its rare laugh in consideration
of the cooing with which it blesses us and the general friendship which it has vowed to this house.

       *       *       *       *       *

RECALLED.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BOBBERY PACK.

  Andy Hartigan's dead and gone
    Over the hills and further yet,
  But he drank good port and his red face shone
    Like a cider apple of Somerset.

  Ten strange couples o' hounds he had
    (Gaunt old brutes that had hunted fox
  Back in the days when NOAH was a lad),
    Touched in the bellows and gone at the hocks--

  Hounds he'd stole from a Harrier pack,
    Hounds he'd borrowed an' begged an' found,
  Grey an' yellow an' tan an' black,
    Every conceivable kind o' hound.

  He called them "harriers," and a few
    Were harriers--back when the world began--
  But they weren't particular where they drew
    An' they weren't particular what they ran.

  I mind him once of a bygone morn
    Ruddy an' round on his flea-bit horse,
  Twangin' a note on his battered horn
    An' cappin' them into the Frenchman gorse.

  They pushed a brown hare out of her form
    An' swung on her line with a crash of tongues;
  But a vixen crossed an' her scent was warm,
    So they ran her, screechin' to burst their lungs.

  They ran her into my lord's demesne,
    Where my lady's fallows were grazing free;
  They picked a stag and followed again,
    Singing like souls in ecstasy.

  They chased the stag up over the ridge
    With lolling tongues an' with heaving flanks;
  They lost him down by the Cluddlah bridge,
    But killed an otter on Cluddlah's banks.

  They had no shape an' they had no style;
    Their manners were bad an' their morals slack;
  They were noisy, but wonderful versatile,
    Andy Hartigan's bobbery pack.

       *       *       *       *       *

High (Explosive) Finance.

    "The issuing of premium bombs, whilst not, strictly speaking, a
    lottery or gamble, would give such people what they ask for, and
    that is a chance to get something unusual and tempting."

    Evening Paper.

Unusual, certainly; but tempting?

       *       *       *       *       *

A War-Menu.

    "GIRLS experienced Wanted to feed on Wharfdale machines."

    Nottingham Evening Post.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "BROADWOODWIDGER.--A new pipe organ has been installed at the
    parish church. A recital was given by the Rev. C. B. Walters, of
    Stokeclimsland, while a sermon was preached by the Rev. Canon
    Lewis, of Launceston."--Provincial Paper.

The Broadwoodwidger example deserves imitation. Some sermons would be much more tolerable if
they had a musical accompaniment.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "A mere automatic raising of the Income Tax strikes
    indiscriminately at the just and the unjust; it is just as
    likely to cripple the man who is supporting and educating a
    large family sybarite."

    Evening Paper.

And a very good thing too. For ourselves, we have always discouraged the growth of these bulky
profligates in the domestic circle.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

YELLOW PRESSURE.

"Rather a funny thing happened the other day," she remarked.

"Yes?" I replied languidly.

"About you."

"Oh!" I said with animation. "Do tell me." What does it mean?

       *       *       *       *       *

HERRICK TO JULIA.

(War Edition).

  When as in silks my Julia goes
  Then, then (methinks) how wanton shows
  That efflorescence of her clothes.

  But when I cast mine eyes and see
  Her drest for decent industry,
  Oh, how that plainness taketh me!

       *       *       *       *       *

FOR TRAITORS.

       *       *       *       *       *

ESSENCE OF PARLIAMENT.

Tuesday, March 28th.--Sir EDWARD CARSON was back on the Front Opposition Bench to-day, so much
the better for his recent rest-cure that he is credited with the desire to prescribe similar
treatment for other jaded politicians. Three of the potential patients--the PRIME MINISTER,
the FOREIGN SECRETARY and the MINISTER OF MUNITIONS--have anticipated his kindly suggestion
by going for a little trip on the Seine, and are making arrangements with their Continental
friends for another on the Spree at a later date.

Before his departure Mr. LLOYD GEORGE, ever thoughtful for the welfare of others, arranged
with the Military authorities to give a change of scene to six members of the Clyde Workers'
Committee, who have been recently over-straining their vocal chords. This was the impression
I got from Dr. ADDISON, who, like his great namesake, is a master of the bland style; but Sir
EDWARD CARSON thrust aside official euphemism and bluntly inquired whether these men were not
in fact assisting the KING'S enemies, and ought not to be indicted for high treason.

The suppression of a number of Sinn Fein papers in Ireland stimulated Mr. GINNELL to the concoction
of a Question about as long as a leading article. To ensure a reply he addressed it simultaneously
to the UNDER SECRETARY FOR WAR and the CHIEF SECRETARY FOR IRELAND. In spite of this precaution
he was disappointed, for, owing to the storm, Mr. BIRRELL had not received the necessary information
from Ireland, while Mr. TENNANT, no doubt for the same reason, had not even received the Question.
Mr. GINNELL is now convinced that the official conspiracy against him has been joined by the
Clerk of the Weather.

I shall hardly be surprised if the next time I walk down Whitehall I find sandwichmen out with
their boards inscribed--

  Westminster Aerodrome.
  Flying every Tuesday.
  Billing Breaks all Records.

The new Member for East Herts has displayed unprecedented dexterity in catching the SPEAKER'S
eye. In three weeks he has already spoken more columns of Hansard than many Members fill during
a long Parliamentary career. His speech to-day consisted almost entirely of a catalogue of
fatal accidents to aviators, due, he declared, to the faulty engines and machines supplied
to them by the Government--"though within twenty miles of here we have a far better machine
than the Fokker."

Previous to this we had listened to a bright and diverting dialogue between Mr. DUDLEY WARD,
representing the Anti-Aircraft Service, and Mr. JOYNSON-HICKS, briefed by the Municipal authorities,
on the question of what happened at Ramsgate during the last raid. As they differed in toto
on every detail the House was not much the wiser for the discussion, but it was consoled by
Mr. JOYNSON-HICKS' remark that "if the MAYOR and TOWN CLERK have lied to me no one will be
more pleased than myself."

Members were much more impressed by the obvious sincerity and occasional eloquence of the appeal
on behalf of the East Coast towns made by Sir A. GELDER. His indignation at the trick played
on one place by the Military authorities, who tried to allay public anxiety by mounting a dummy
gun, was shared by the House.

Mr. TENNANT did not attempt to deny or palliate this imposture, but he made a fairly adequate
reply to other counts of the indictment, and promised a judicial inquiry into the casualties
enumerated by Mr. BILLING. The revelation that he himself has a son in the Flying Corps was
perhaps the most effective point in a speech which did not wholly remove the impression that
the Government has its head in the air rather than its heart.

Wednesday, March 29th.--There are more ways than one of getting into the House of Commons.
Mr. PERCY HARRIS, the new Member for the Market Harborough division, who took his seat to-day,
arrived by the old-fashioned route of a contested election. He was just about to shake hands
with the SPEAKER when a khaki-clad stranger took a short cut from the Gallery and reached the
floor per saltum. Not only so, but before he could be arrested this Messenger from Mars succeeded
in delivering his maiden speech, to the effect that British soldiers' heads should be protected
against shrapnel-fire. The SERJEANT-AT-ARMS, who had had a narrow escape, goes further, holding
the view that his own head should be protected from acrobatic British soldiers.

To-day Mr. LONG had the difficult task of convincing the House that the married men had no
grievance, and that the Government were doing their best to remove it. Only a man who has fought
with bulls in Ireland could hope to tackle such a paradox. Mr. LONG, having enjoyed that experience,
was fairly successful.

Sir EDWARD CARSON, who had been expected by some people to initiate a raging "Down-the-Government"
agitation, was comparatively mild, and, admitting that his late colleagues had done something,
chiefly blamed them for not having done it earlier. Still he made it plain that in his view
compulsion all round was inevitable if Prussianism was to be crushed. Mr. ELLIS GRIFFITH agreed
with him. The Government ought not to bargain with the public; it ought to give them a clear
and definite command. Such sentiments, proceeding from one who still claimed to belong to the
Liberal Party, shocked Sir WILLIAM BYLES. Maintaining that those who had voted against the
Military Service Bill were the truest friends of the PRIME MINISTER, he promised again to give
him his invaluable support "if he would only lead us to our accustomed pasture." There is no
justification, however, for the theory that the worthy knight is a candidate for the Order
of the Thistle.

Thursday, March 30th.--In the Lords to-day Viscount TEMPLETOWN moved that London should be
declared a prohibited area, with a view to removing the eight or nine thousand Germans still
carrying on business there. His argument was a little difficult to follow, for it included
a complaint that in Eastbourne, which is a prohibited area, a number of aliens are residing
in comfort and affluence. The Marquis of LANSDOWNE, usually so logical, on this occasion answered
inconsequence by inconsequence. In one breath he asserted that to declare the whole of the
Metropolis a prohibited area would throw too much work on the police; and in the next that
it would have the effect of driving away large numbers of aliens to places not so well policed
as London is. Lord BERESFORD caught the infection. In the course of a long question designed
to clear General TOWNSHEND of the responsibility for the advance upon Bagdad, he remarked with
startling irrelevance that if his (Lord BERESFORD's) advice had been taken by the PRIME MINISTER
the Lusitania would still be afloat and we should have lost no battleships in the Dardanelles.
He did not appear to attach undue importance to this claim, and Lord ISLINGTON, who replied
for the Government, did not think it necessary to make any reference to it, but contented himself
with stating that the Bagdad advance was authorised on the advice of General NIXON and the
Indian Government, and professing official ignorance of any representations on the part of
General TOWNSHEND.

In the Commons the trouble on the Clyde was the pièce de résistance. At Question time Mr. LLOYD
GEORGE, fresh from the Paris Conference, had to deal with a number of inquiries put by the
little group of Scottish malcontents whose notion of patriotism is to embarrass the Government
on each and every occasion. Mr. HOGGE wanted to know when the MINISTER OF MUNITIONS was going
to give the other side of the case--"the German side," as an interrupter pertinently put it;
and Mr. PRINGLE intimated that a settlement could have been reached but for the unreasonableness
of the Government.

This gave Dr. ADDISON, usually the mildest-mannered man that ever lanced a gumboil, an opportunity
of administering to big accuser a much-needed lesson in deportment. The hon. Member had first
forced himself, without invitation, into a private conversation in the Minister's room, and
had then given a totally misleading account of what took place. He had made himself the spokesman
of a body which had displayed "a treacherous disregard of the highest national interests."

Mr. PRINGLE was as much surprised as if he had been bitten by a rabbit, and wound up an unconvincing
defence of himself with the remark that he would rather keep silence than say anything to exacerbate
feeling. It is a pity that his friend Mr. HOGGE did not imitate this wise if rather tardy reticence.
He gave Mr. LLOYD GEORGE the lie when he was describing how the disputes had interfered with
the supply of guns urgently needed by the Army, and provoked the retort that, instead of encouraging
the strikers by unfounded suggestions, he would be better employed if "with what credit is
left to him" he went down to the Clyde and tried to get them to work.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

A LETTER TO THE FRONT.

"Kin yer write a letter?"

"More or less," I said. I did not rate myself with Madame DE STAËL nor with EDWARD FITZGERALD,
but I forebore to mention these names because I thought that they would not be familiar to
my questioner. If you happen to know Paradise Rents, Fulham, you will realise that neither
Madame DE STAËL, nor FITZGERALD is much read there. Moreover, the type that addressed me had
not the aspect of a literary man.

He was a man of some seven years, maybe, in company with a younger man, perhaps of five. He
was hatless, coatless, waistcoatless, but he had a pair of trousers, short in the leg, precariously
held by one brace. That is the fashion in Paradise Rents. I had come upon these two young men
about Fulham as they were staring with absorbed interest into the undertaker's shop advantageously
situated for custom at the corner of the Rents and the main street. Certainly it was a pleasant
window. Besides the legends and texts, the artificial wreaths and the pictures of tombs and
tombstones, there was a number of model coffins in miniature. It was these that had fascinated
the attention of the two young men.

"I should like one o' them to ply with," said the elder covetously.

"What would yer do with it, Bill?" the younger asked.

"I'd put the old KAYSER in it, along wi' Farver."

It is rude to laugh at other people's conversation, particularly if you have not been introduced
to them, but I caught myself in an audible chuckle over this fine blend of patriotic and filial
sentiment. Then I pulled myself but not in time; I had been detected.

If you wish to know what it is to be stared at, you should interrupt, as I had, a conversation
between two young men of about this age in Fulham or elsewhere. They stared in unison and in
silence until the tension became unbearable, and one of them, the elder, whose name was Bill,
relieved it with the above quest on, "Kin yer write a letter?"

Perhaps my answer was a little modest. He regarded me doubtfully, then asked--

"'Ow soon kin yer write a letter?"

"You mean, how long does it take me to write a letter?"

He nodded his head vehemently.

"Well," I began, "it rather depends, you know, on what there is to say." I saw dissatisfaction
cloud his face, and hastened to add, "Oh, well, about ten minutes."

At that his expression cleared to astonishment. Passing that emotion, it went to incredulity.
It was a beautifully legible face, though everything but clean. He made up his mind.

"Will yer come," he asked, "and write a letter for my granmother?"

We were on the heels of adventure now; no one could say what new country this might lead to.

"Where does she live?" I asked.

"Just round the corner, two doors from my Great-aunt Maria's," he said, astonished that I should
not know,

"Lead on," I said, concealing my ignorance of the residence of great-aunt Maria.

He took me by the hand, which I could not in courtesy decline, and led me down Paradise Rents.

As a rule, in Paradise Rents, front doors stand open to the street, but the door of Number
5, the abode of Bill's grandmother, was shut. On tip-toe and with a strenuous effort Bill reached
the latch. The door opened and Bill shouted through it, by way of introduction:--

"She says she kin write a letter in ten minutes."

The person addressed, whom I understood to be the grandmother, was engaged in scrubbing with
a duster a deal table already clean enough to make Bill's face much ashamed of itself. She
was a large heavy old woman, with a round colourless visage that suggested the full moon by
daylight, and wispy grey locks like a nimbus about it.

"Lor bless the child, Mum!" she exclaimed. "Bill, whatever d'yer mean by it?"

"Says she kin write a letter in ten minutes," Bill repeated, with the emphasis of grave doubt
on the "says."

"Bless the child, Mum! I don't know whatever 'e's been saying. It's truth as I did say as I
wished I 'ad someone as could write a letter for me to my son Frank, it being 'is birthday
Tuesday and 'im out at the Front. But there, it's not to say, as I can't write a letter myself
if I'm so minded, but I'm no great scholard and it do take me a long time to finish--each day
a word or two. About a week it take me to write a letter, such a letter as I'd wish to write
to Frank out at the Front, for 'is birthday, to cheer 'im up."

"Frank's Bill's father, I suppose?" I said, by way of filling an asthmatic pause.

"Lor bless yer, no, Mum. Bill's father wouldn't never go into no more danger than what 'e'd
find at the Red Lion. Married my pore daughter 'e did, as died--a mercy for 'er, pore thing!
That's 'ow it is Bill's living along o' me."

"I see," I said. "Well, now--about the letter?"

A space more liberal than the operation strictly needed was cleared for me on the polished
deal table; a penny ink-bottle and a pen with a rusty but still useful nib set upon it, and
from a special drawer, with a solemnity that of the character of sacred ritual, Mrs. Watt,
as Bill's grandmother informed me she was called, drew forth a single sheet of notepaper. Its
dimensions had been heavily curtailed by the deepest border of mourning black that I ever had
seen on English writing-paper. Other nations surpass us in this evidence of respect, but Mrs.
Watt's paper was calculated to raise the national standard.

"Isn't this," I said, "rather--I mean is it quite suited for a birthday letter, to cheer up
Frank in the trenches?"

Mrs. Watt took the suggestion in quite good part, but gave it a decided negative.

"'E would wish respect showed to 'is Aunt Maria, as died Wednesday was a fortnight. You might
tell 'im that, if you please, Mum."

I started off, as bidden, with this mournful communication, under the eye, at first severely
critical, then frankly admiring, of Bill's grandmother.

"Lor," she exclaimed, "you be one to write the words quick!"

"What shall we say now?" I asked brightly.

"Wednesday was a fortnight as she died, sister Maria did, that's Frank's aunt, and was buried
a Saturday--what's too soon, as you'd say, but no disrespect meant, the undertaker arranging
first for the Monday--only 'aving a bigger job, with 'orses and plumes, give'im for the Monday,
and so putting my pore sister forward to the Saturday. 'Ave you got that down, Mum?"

"Oh," I said, scribbling briskly, "am I to write all that?" It occupied, even with much compression,
space far into the second side of the restricted paper.

"An' my only relative surviving," she resumed, "being brother George, as is eighty-two, and
crotchety at that, lives out 'Oxton way, so I wrote to him about the funeral for a Monday,
and when the undertaker puts it forward to the Saturday I didn't have no one to send all that
way, so brother George--'e's eighty-two, and crotchety at that--'e didn't get no notice for
the funeral on Saturday at all, so o' course 'e didn't come. You'll make all that clear to
Frank, won't you, Mum?"

I scribbled hard again, and said I was doing my best.

"So brother George being crotchety, as I said, Mum, 'e sent me word as 'e wouldn't never speak
to me again in this world, and 'e didn't know as ever 'e would in the world to come--I'd like
you to put that all in, please, Mum, so's to let Frank know 'ow it all is. Now, do you suppose,
Mum, if I was to die, as brother George'd come to my funeral?"

I hardly knew what answer to make after the "cut everlasting" with which George had threatened
his sister, but I had an idea that I was beginning to understand Mrs. Watt's tastes. "Well,"
I said weakly, "I don't know--funerals are very pleasant things."

It was the right note and Mrs. Watt took it up keenly. "That's what I always says, Mum," she
said eagerly. "I'd sooner go to a good funeral than I would a wedding any day of the week.
You've got that down about brother George? Yes, and please say as it was beautiful polished
wood, the coffin--and real brass 'andles."

"But, Mrs. Watt," I said despairingly, "that'll bring us quite to the end of the paper, and
we've never even wished him many happy returns yet. Have you another sheet?"

"I haven't got no more than the one sheet, but I dessay as there's room to say as I'm his loving
mother, and 'ope it finds 'im well, as it leaves me."

I managed to pinch in the traditional salutation; the sheet was enclosed in an envelope as
sepulchral of aspect as itself, and with much misgiving I put Frank's birthday letter into
the first pillar-box that I found.

