9. The government will be administered by Captain Stirling, of the Royal Navy, as Lieut. Governor
of the settlement; and it is proposed that a bill should be submitted to parliament, in the
course of the next session, to make provision for the civil government of the New Settlement.

Downing Street, 13th January, 1829.

The intended settlement is designated, in the "Regulations," as the "New Colony on the Swan
River;"[3] but this is a name, we think, not sufficiently comprehensive for the extent of territory
meant to be occupied. What its future designation is meant to be, we pretend not to know, but
if its soil should prove as fruitful as its climate is fine, the position and aspect of this
part of the coast might justify the name of Southern, or Australian, Hesperia; under which
might be included all that line of coast from Cape Leuwin, the southernmost point of New Holland,
in lat. 34 deg. 30 min., long. 115 deg. 12 min. east, to the lat. 31 deg. (or a degree or two
more northerly) long. 115 deg. 15 min. east; and from the former point easterly to King George's
Sound, where an English colony has already been established. This extent of territory, between
the sea-coast and a range of mountains parallel to it, hereafter to be described, may be estimated
to contain from five to six millions of acres, the greater part of which, from the general
appearance of the two extreme portions (the only ones examined) may be considered as land fit
for the plough, and, therefore, fully capable of giving support to a million of souls. The
description we are about to give of this territory is mainly derived from Captain Stirling,
the intelligent officer who explored the country, and of which he has been appointed the Lieutenant
Governor, and from Mr. Fraser, an excellent botanist, who accompanied him, and who was well
acquainted with the soil and products of New South Wales, on the opposite side of Australia.

Captain Stirling, when commanding the Success frigate, was sent to New South Wales on a particular
service, which the state of the monsoon prevented him from carrying into immediate execution.
He determined, therefore, on the recommendation of General Darling, the governor, to explore,
in the meantime, this western part of Australia, which was omitted to be surveyed by Captain
King, on the ground that it had been visited by the French in the expedition of Captain Baudin:
the result of that visit, however, is so unsatisfactory, and so very inaccurate, that we are
rather surprised that Captain King should have passed over so interesting a portion, geographically
considered, as the south-western angle of this great country. Captain Stirling arrived at Cape
Leuwin on the 2nd of March, 1827, stood along the coast, and anchored in Gage's Roads, opposite
Swan River, which he afterwards ascended to its source in boats, and sent out exploring parties
to ascertain the nature of the surrounding territory.

"We found," he says, "the country in general rich and romantic, gained the summit of the first
range of mountains, and had a bird's-eye view of an immense plain, which extended as far as
the eye could reach to the northward, southward, and westward. After ten days' absence, we
returned to the ship; we encountered no difficulty that was not easily removable; we were furnished
with abundance of fresh provisions by our guns, and met with no obstruction from the natives."

