THE INTERNATIONAL MAGAZINE

Of Literature, Art, and Science.

Vol. II.

NEW-YORK, MARCH 1, 1851.

No. IV.

AUSTEN HENRY LAYARD, LL. D.

In an early number of the International we had the satisfaction of printing an original and
very interesting letter from Dr. Layard, in which, with more fulness and explicitness than
in his great work on Nineveh, he discusses the subject of Ancient Art. We have carefully noted
from time to time his proceedings in the East, and our readers will remember that we recently
gave engravings of the most remarkable of the antiquities he sent home last year to the British
Museum. Since that time he has proceeded to Bagdad, and he is now pursuing in that vicinity,
with his wonted sagacity and earnestness, researches for the remains of Babylon, which in turn
will furnish material for another extensive publication from his pen.

The first public announcement of the discoveries at Nimroud was made in the Knickerbocker Magazine
of this city, in a letter from our countryman, Minor K. Kellogg, the painter, who was a long
time the intimate friend and travelling companion of Layard in Asia Minor. Introducing the
letters in which the antiquary disclosed the successful result of his investigations, Mr. Kellogg
says:

     "I can scarcely call to mind a person so admirably qualified in
     all respects for prosecuting such laborious researches. He is
     young, of a hardy and enduring constitution, is acquainted with
     the Oriental languages, and speaks the Persian and Turkish
     fluently. He is enthusiastic and indefatigable in every thing
     he undertakes, and plentifully endowed with courage, prudence,
     and good-nature."

This was more than two years before Layard himself, in his "Nineveh and its Remains," exhibited
those triumphs of his intelligence and devotion which have secured for him a place among the
most famous travellers and antiquaries in the world.

We take the occasion of copying the above portrait from the last number of Bentley's Miscellany
to present, from various authentic sources, a brief sketch of Dr. Layard's history. He is descended
from the noble French Protestant family of Raymond de Layarde, who accompanied the Prince of
Orange into England. He was born at Paris, during a temporary visit of his parents to that
metropolis, on the 5th of March, 1817. His father, who was the son of the Rev. Dr. Henry Peter
John Layard, Dean of Bristol, filled a high civil office in Ceylon, between the years 1820
and 1830, and took great interest in the circulation of the Scriptures among heathen nations.
He was a man of considerable classical learning, and of refined tastes. During the youth of
his son, he lived at Florence, where our young antiquary had free access to the stores of the
Pitti Palace, and of the Tribune. He thus became familiar from his infancy with the language
of Tuscany, and formed his taste for the fine arts and literature upon the models of painting
and sculpture amid which he lived, and in the rich libraries which he frequented. In this manner
he added a thorough knowledge of modern languages to a competent acquaintance with those of
Greece and Rome. Here, also, he acquired, almost involuntarily, a power over his pencil, which,
long dormant, was called forth by the sight of slabs with the noblest sculptures and the finest
inscriptions, crumbling into dust. No draughtsman had been provided for his assistance, and
had he not instantly determined to arrest by the quickness of his eye, and the skill thus acquired,
improved subsequently by Mr. Kellogg's companionship, those fleeting forms which were about
to disappear for ever, many of the finest remains of ancient art would have been irrecoverably
lost.

On his return from Italy to England, he was urged to choose the profession of the law; but
his thirst for knowledge, his love of adventure, and his foreign tastes and habits, led him,
after a brief apprenticeship, to travel. He left England, with no very definite object, in
the summer of 1839, and, accompanied by a friend, visited Russia and other northern countries,
and afterward, living some time in Germany and the states on the Danube, made himself master
of the German language, and of several of the dialects of Transylvania. From Dalmatia he passed
into Montenegro, where he remained a considerable time, assisting an able and active young
chief in ameliorating the condition of his semi-barbarous subjects. Travelling through Albania
and Romelia, where he met with numerous adventures, he arrived at Constantinople, about the
end of 1839. Here he made arrangements for visiting Asia Minor, and other countries in the
East, where he spent some years, adopting the costume and leading the life of an Arab of the
Desert, and acquiring a thorough knowledge of the manners and languages of Turkey and Arabia.
In 1840 or 1841, he transmitted to the Royal Geographical Society, an Itinerary from Constantinople
to Aleppo, which does not seem to have been published; but in the eleventh volume of the Journal
of that Society, we have an account of the tour which he performed with Mr. Ainsworth, in April,
1840. He travelled in Persia in the same year, and projected a journey for the purpose of examining
Susa, and some other places of interest in the Baktyari mountains, to which Major Rawlinson
had drawn the attention of the Geographical Society. With this view, he left Ispahan in the
middle of September, in company with Schiffeer Khan, a Baktyari chief; and having crossed the
highest part of the great chain of Mungasht, he visited the ruins of Manjanik, which are of
considerable extent, and resemble those of the Susannian cities. He visited also the ruins
in the plain of Mel Amir, and copied some of their cuneiform inscriptions. In crossing the
hills to Susan, he was attacked by a tribe of Dinarunis, and robbed of his watch, compass,
&c.; but having complained to the chief, and insisted on the return of every missing article,
he received back the whole of his property. It had been his practice to traverse these mountains
quite alone, and he was never attacked or insulted, except on this occasion, when the country
was in a state of war. He found scarcely any remains at Susan to indicate the site of a large
city. In 1842 and 1843, he spent a considerable time in the province of Khuistan, an elaborate
description of which he communicated through Lord Aberdeen to the Royal Geographical Society.
It was during these various journeys that he prepared himself for the great task to which his
best and ripest powers were to be devoted. In his wanderings through Asia Minor and Syria he
had scarcely left a spot untrodden which tradition hallowed, or a ruin unexamined which was
consecrated by history. His companion shared his feelings and his zeal. Unmindful of danger,
they rode along with no other protection than their arms. They tended their own horses, and,
mixing with the people, they acquired their manners and their language. He himself says: "I
had traversed Asia Minor and Syria, visiting the ancient seats of civilization, and the spots
which religion had made holy. I now felt an irresistible desire to penetrate to the regions
beyond the Euphrates, to which history and tradition point as the birthplace of the Wisdom
of the West."

With these feelings, he looked to the banks of the Tigris, and longed to dispel the mysterious
darkness which hung over Assyria and Babylonia. He, accordingly, made preliminary visits to
Mosul, inspected the ruins of Nimroud and Kuyunjik, and, fortunately, obtained an interview
with Sir Stratford Canning at Constantinople, then on his way to England. This distinguished
man, who was formerly minister to the United States, and is remembered with well-deserved gratitude
by nearly every recent traveller in the East, immediately discovered and appreciated the character
and talents of Mr. Layard. His knowledge of the East, and of its manners and languages, recommended
him in a peculiar manner to the notice of the ambassador, who persuaded him to remain, and
employed him on many important public services. Sir Stratford Canning himself took a deep interest
in the researches which had been made by the French, and he promptly aided his young countryman
in carrying out the designs of which we now have the histories in his books. In the summer
of 1845 Mr. Layard, Count Perpontier of the Prussian Embassy, and Mr. Kellogg, quitted Constantinople
together, and visited Brusa (where Layard was some time dangerously ill from a coup de soleil),
Mount Olympus, the country of the Ourouks or Wandering Tartars, the valley of the Rhyndacus,
the Plain of Toushanloo, Kiutayah, the ruins of Azani, &c. Shortly after he proceeded to Nimroud,
and in December, 1847, he returned to England with the fruits of his labors. He wrote to Mr.
Kellogg, who was now in New-York, under date of

    "CHELTENHAM, Jan. 16, 1848.

     "MY DEAR KELLOGG:--I was quite delighted to see your
     handwriting again, when a few days ago I received your letter
     of the 15th November, with the diploma of the New-York
     Ethnological Society. I reached home on Christmas day, after
     having been detained three months at Constantinople. As you may
     well conceive, since my return I have not had a moment to
     myself--for what with domestic rejoicings and general honors, I
     have been in one continual movement and excitement. I was
     gratified to find that the results of my labors had created
     much more interest in England than I could possibly have
     expected, and that those connected with art, and interested in
     early history, were really enthusiastic on the subject; so much
     so, indeed, that the Trustees of the British Museum are
     desirous of doing every thing that I think right; and it is
     probable that ere long a very fine work will be published at
     the public expense, containing all the drawings (about 130) and
     inscriptions. I am to write and publish a small descriptive and
     popular work, for my own advantage, just sufficient to satisfy
     the public curiosity about Nineveh and the excavations. It will
     contain an account of the works carried on, a slight sketch of
     the history of Nineveh, a short inquiry into the manners,
     customs and religion of the Assyrians, my own adventures in
     Assyria, and a little information on the language and
     character, with an account of the progress made in deciphering.
     There will be two volumes I presume, and I have already
     advantageous offers from publishers. My reason for entering
     into these details, is to ask you what the law is in America,
     and whether any influential bookseller would be willing to give
     me any thing for the copyright, and if so, how it could be
     managed? If you could do any thing for me in this matter, I
     should really be much obliged to you, and I am willing to abide
     by any arrangement you might think advantageous. I think the
     work will be attractive--particularly in America, where there
     are so many Scripture readers.

     "I took Florence on my way, expressly to see you and Powers.
     Although I was disappointed (and very greatly too) in the
     first, I was greatly gratified in seeing Powers, and can assure
     you I left Florence with as high an admiration for his genius
     and character, as you can have, although unfortunately I was
     only able to pass an hour or two with him, my stay being so
     short. I showed him all my drawings, and, as you may suppose,
     passed a very pleasant morning with him, Kirkup, and
     Migliarini--all enthusiastic in seeing my drawings, and persons
     worth showing such things to. Two hours, spent in this way, go
     far towards recompensing one for any labor and sacrifice. I got
     your address from Powers, intending to write to you as soon as
     I reached England. It gave me the sincerest pleasure to hear
     every one uniting in your praise; I regretted the more that you
     were absent, and that I was unable to see your works. I was
     delighted to find that such brilliant prospects were opening to
     Powers, and I learnt from him, what you hint at in your letter,
     that you also were prospering, and that substantial advantages
     were pretty sure. I have only now to get a little money in my
     pocket, and then inshallah (as the Turks say), I'll have my
     picture out of you. To return to business for a moment (pardon
     me for doing so), I think the drawings will be published in
     first rate style and at a very moderate price: about £10--not a
     shilling a drawing. Pray mention this to any of your bookseller
     friends, and perhaps they may be induced to take a few copies.
     It will be a work which no library ought to be without; it
     will, I hope, quite surpass the French publication both in
     execution and subject, and will be sold at one-tenth of the
     price--theirs coming to nearly £100. I inclose a letter of
     thanks for the Secretary of the Ethnological Society, which
     pray send, and also add on my part, many thanks for this honor,
     which I can assure you I particularly appreciate. My names are
     Austen Henry Layard, and my designation simply "attached to Her
     Britannic Majesty's Embassy, at the Sublime Porte." Lady
     Canning and her family are still in England, Sir Stratford at
     Berne. It is doubtful when they will return to Constantinople,
     but I presume ere long. I am ordered out in May, and am named
     commissioner for the settlement of the boundaries between
     Turkey and Persia. I wish I had you with me during my
     commission, for I shall visit a most interesting country,
     totally unknown, and with magnificent subjects for such a
     pencil as yours. I am sorry I did not know of your visit to
     England. I have many influential friends, who would have been
     glad to welcome you, and who might have been useful. I am now
     passing a month or two at Cheltenham, for the benefit of my
     health, which has suffered a little. I will write to you again
     soon with something more interesting. Believe me, my dear
     Kellogg, yours ever sincerely,

     A. H. LAYARD."

Upon the publication of his great work on Nineveh and its Remains, thus modestly announced,
and his One Hundred Plates, he went back to the East, to renew his researches. Of the results
of his recent labors we have already written, in the International for December.

Dr. Layard is a person of the most amiable and pleasing character, with all the social virtues
which command affection and respect, and such capacities in literature as make him one of the
most attractive travel-writers in our language. The world may yet look for several volumes
from his hand, upon the East, and we are sure they will deserve the large and permanent popularity
to which his first work has attained in every country where it has been printed.

THE ASTOR LIBRARY.

We present above an accurate view of the exterior of the ASTOR LIBRARY, in Lafayette Place,
from a drawing made for the International under the direction of the architect, Mr. Alexander
Saeltzer. It is destined to be one of the chief attractions of the city, and information respecting
it will be read with interest by the literary and learned throughout the country.

It is now three years since John Jacob Astor died, leaving by his will four hundred thousand
dollars for the establishment of a Public Library in New-York, and naming as the first trustees,
the Mayor of the city of New-York and the Chancellor of the state for the time being. Washington
Irving, William B. Astor, Daniel Lord, Jr., James G. King, Joseph G. Cogswell, Fitz-Greene
Halleck, Henry Brevoort, Jr., Samuel B. Ruggles, Samuel Ward, and Charles Bristed. On the twentieth
of May the trustees held their first meeting, accepted the trust conferred on them, and appointed
Dr. Cogswell, one of their number, superintendent of the Library. Of the bequest, $75,000 was
authorized to be applied to the erection of a building, $120,000 to the purchase of books and
other objects in the establishment of the Library, and the residue, after paying for the site,
was to be invested as a fund for its maintenance and increase. In September, 1848, the trustees
selected the site for the edifice. It is convenient for all public purposes, and affords the
comparative quietude and retirement which are desirable for an institution of constant resort
for study and for the consultation of authorities. In October, Dr. Cogswell was authorized
to go to Europe and purchase at his discretion books to the value of twenty thousand dollars.
The object of the trustees in sending him abroad at that particular time was to avail themselves
of the opportunity, afforded by the distracted political condition of Europe and the reduction
of prices consequent upon it, to purchase books at very low rates; and the purchases were made
at prices greatly below the ordinary standard, and the execution of his trust in all respects
amply vindicated the high opinion entertained of Dr. Cogswell's fitness for his position.

The plans for the edifice submitted by Mr. Saeltzer having been adopted, the work was commenced
and has been vigorously prosecuted until the present time, when the front and nearly all the
exterior are completed. The Library is of brown stone, and in the Byzantine style, or rather
in that of the palaces of Florence, and is one hundred and twenty feet long, sixty-five feet
wide, and sixty-seven feet high. Scarcely a particle of wood enters into its composition. No
building in the United States, of this character, is formed to so large an extent of iron.
Its uses, too, are altogether novel, at least in this country, and ingenious. For instance,
the truss beams, supporting the principal weight of the roof, are constructed of cast iron
pipes, in a parabolic form, on the same plan as the iron bridges in France and other parts
of Europe, with a view to secure lightness and strength. The Library Hall, which occupies the
second floor, is one hundred feet high, and sixty wide, in the clear. The ascent from the front
is by a single line of thirty-eight Italian marble steps, decorated on either side, at the
entrance, by a stone sphinx. Upon nearing the summit of these steps, the visitor finds himself
near the centre of this immense alcove, surrounded by fourteen brick piers, plastered and finished
in imitation of marble, and supporting iron galleries, midway between the floor and the ceiling.
The side walls form one continuous shelving, of a capacity sufficient for 100,000 volumes.
This is reached by means of the main gallery, in connection with which are four iron spiral
stairways and an intervening gallery, of a lighter and smaller description, connected by its
eight staircases with the main gallery. The whole are very ingeniously arranged and appropriately
ornamented, in a style corresponding with the general architecture of the building. At an elevation
of fifty-one feet above the floor of the main hall, is the principal skylight, fifty-four feet
long and fourteen broad, formed of thick glass set in iron. Besides this there are circular
side skylights of much smaller dimensions. All needful light is furnished, by these and by
the windows in the front and rear walls. Free ventilation is also secured by iron fretwork,
in suitable portions of the ceiling. In the extreme rear are the two rooms for the librarian,
to which access is had by means of the main galleries.

The first floor contains lecture and reading-rooms, with accommodations for five hundred persons.
The latter are on each side of the building, and separated from the library-hall stairway at
the front entrance by two corridors leading to the rear vestibule, and thence to the lecture-room,
still further in the rear. The basement contains the keeper's rooms, cellars, coal-vaults,
air-furnaces, &c. The floors are of richly-wrought mosaic work, on iron beams. The building
will not be completed, probably, for nearly a year from this time, and the books collected,
about 27,000, are meanwhile accessible at 32 Bond-street.

Dr. Cogswell has had printed, in an octavo volume of 446 pages, an alphabetical index to the
books now collected, and of the proposed accessions. This catalogue is not published, and there
are but few copies of it. The learned librarian, who sailed a few days ago on a new mission
for the library, to Europe, printed it at his own cost, convinced that without some such manual
it would be extremely difficult, if not impossible, in making the necessary purchases, to avoid
buying duplicates, and equally difficult to select judiciously so many thousand volumes as
are required. He remarks that the Astor Library is in his opinion the first of so considerable
an extent that has ever been called at once into existence. "That of Gottingen, the nearest
parallel, was founded more than a century ago, when the whole number of printed books was less
than half the present number. Should the Astor Library ever become a parallel to that in excellence
and completeness, it will be as great an honor to the new world as that to the old."

THE TEMPER OF WOMEN.

In the Lexington Papers, just published in London, we have some good anecdotes of society two
hundred and fifty years ago. Here is one:

"A few days ago two ladies met in a narrow street at ten o'clock in the morning. Neither chose
to permit her carriage to be drawn back, and they remained without moving for six hours. A
little after twelve o'clock they sent for some refreshment for themselves and food for their
horses. Each was firmly resolved to stay the night there rather than go back; and they would
have done so, but a tavern-keeper in the street, who was prevented by their obstinacy from
bringing to his door a cart laden with wine, went in search of the commissary of the district,
who at length, but with much trouble, succeeded in effecting an arrangement upon these terms--that
each should retire at the same moment, and that neither should pass through the street."

And here another, which would versify into a fine horrible ballad--as grand and ghastly as
Alfred Tennyson's "Sisters:"

"The Parliament has lately confirmed the sentence of death passed on two daughters of a gentleman
of Anjou, named Madaillon, for the murder of the lover of their younger sister. It appears
that he was engaged to be married to the eldest sister, but deserting her, and passing over
the second, he transferred his addresses to the youngest. The two eldest sisters, in revenge,
invited him to play at blind man's buff, and while one bound his eyes, the other cut his throat."

And this is similar:

"In Piedmont a gentleman addressed at the same time one lady who was rich and plain, and one
who was poor and very beautiful; and they, by chance becoming acquainted, exhibited to each
other their correspondence with the vacillating lover, and one of them invited him to a meeting,
in which after joining in reproaches, they dexterously each deprived him of an ear."

ANDREW MARVEL.

Of this Aristides of the poets, and his homes and haunts. Mrs. S. C. HALL gives us the following
interesting sketches in her "Pilgrimages to English Shrines." The illustrations are from drawings
by F. W. Fairholt, F.S.A.

But a few months ago we had been strolling about Palace-yard, and instinctively paused at No.
19 York-street, Westminster. It was evening; the lamplighters were running from post to post,
but we could still see that the house was a plain house to look at, differing little from its
associate dwellings; a common house, a house you would pass without a thought, unless the remembrance
of thoughts that had been given to you from within the shelter of those plain, ordinary walls,
caused you to reflect; aye, and to thank God, who has left with you the memories and sympathies
which elevate human nature. Here, while Latin secretary to the Protector, was JOHN MILTON to
be found when "at home;" and in his society, at times, were met all the men who with their
great originator, Cromwell, astonished Europe. Just think of those who entered that portal;
think of them all if you can--statesmen and warriors; or, if you are really of a gentle spirit,
think of two--but two; either of whom has left enough to engross your thoughts and fill your
hearts. Think of JOHN MILTON and ANDREW MARVEL! think of the Protector of England, with two
such secretaries!

Evening had deepened into night; busy hands were closing shutters, and drawing curtains, to
exclude the dense fog, that crept slowly and silently, like an assassin, through the streets;
the pavement was clammy, and the carriages rushing through the mist, like huge-eyed, misshapen
spectres, proved how eager even the poor horses were to find shelter; yet for a long while
we stood on the steps of this building, and at length retraced our steps homeward. Our train
of thought, although checked, was not changed, when seated by a comfortable fire. We took down
a volume of Milton; but "Paradise Lost" was too sublime for the mood of the moment, and we
"got to thinking" of Andrew Marvel, and displaced a volume of Captain Edward Thompson's edition
of his works; and then it occurred to us to walk to Highgate, and once again enjoy the sight
of his quaint old cottage on the side of the hill just facing "Cromwell House," and next to
that which once owned for its master the great Earl of Lauderdale.

We know nothing more invigorating than to breast the breeze up a hill, with a bright clear
sky above, and the crisp ground under foot. The wind of March is as pure champagne to a healthy
constitution; and let mountain-men laugh as they will at Highgate-hill, it is no ordinary labor
to go and look down upon London from its height.

Here then we are, once more, opposite the house where lived the satirist, the poet, the incorruptible
patriot.

It is, as you will see presently, a peculiar-looking dwelling, just such a one as you might
well suppose the chosen of Andrew Marvel--exquisitely situated, enjoying abundant natural advantages;
and yet altogether devoid of pretension; sufficiently beautiful for a poet, sufficiently humble
for a patriot.

It is an unostentatious home, with simple gables and plain windows, and is but a story high.
In front are some old trees, and a convenient porch to the door, in which to sit and look forth
upon the road, a few paces in advance of it. The front is of plaster, but the windows are modernized,
and there are other alterations which the exigencies of tenancy have made necessary since Marvel's
days.

The dwelling was evidently inhabited;--the curtains in the deep windows as white as they were
when we visited it some years previous to the visit concerning which we now write, and the
garden as neat as when in those days we asked permission to see the house, and were answered
by an elderly servant, who took in our message; and an old gentleman came into the hall, invited
us in, and presented us to his wife, a lady of more than middle age, and of that species of
beauty depending upon expression, which it is not in the power of time to wither, because it
is of the spirit rather than the flesh; and we also remembered a green parrot, in a fine cage,
that talked a great deal, and was the only thing which seemed out of place in the house. We
had been treated with much courtesy; and, emboldened by the memory of that kindness, we now
ascended the stone steps, unlatched the little gate, and knocked.

Again we were received courteously and kindly by the lady we had formerly seen; and again she
blandly offered to show us the house. We went up a little winding stair, and into several neat,
clean bedrooms, where every thing was so old-fashioned, that you could fancy Andrew Marvel
himself was still its master.

"Look out here," said the old lady; "here's a view! They say this was Andrew Marvel's writing
closet when he wrote sense; but when he wrote poetry, he used to sit below in his garden. I
have heard there is a private way under the road to Cromwell House, opposite; but surely that
could not be necessary. So good a man would not want to work in the dark; for he was a true
lover of his country, and a brave man. My husband used to say, the patriots of those times
were not like the patriots now;--that then, they acted for their country,--now, they talk about
it! Alas! the days are passed when you could tell an Englishman from every other man, even
by his gait, keeping the middle of the road, and straight on, as one who knew himself, and
made others know him. I am sure a party of roundheads, in their sober coats, high hats, and
heavy boots, would have walked up Highgate Hill to visit Master Andrew Marvel, with a different
air from the young men of our own time,--or of their own time, I should say,--for my time is
past, and yours is passing."

That was quite true; but there is no reason, we thought, why we should not look cheerfully
towards the future, and pray that it may be a bright world for others, if not for ourselves;--the
greater our enjoyment in the contemplation of the happiness of our fellow-creatures, the nearer
we approach God.

It was too damp for the old lady to venture into the garden; and sweet and gentle as she was,
both in mind and manner, we were glad to be alone. How pretty and peaceful the house looks
from this spot! The snowdrops were quite up, and the yellow and purple tips of the crocuses
bursting through the ground in all directions. This, then, was the garden the poet loved so
well, and to which he alludes so charmingly in his poem, where the nymph complains of the death
of her fawn--

    "I have a garden of my own,
    But so with roses overgrown,
    And lilies, that you would it guess
    To be a little wilderness."

The garden seems in nothing changed; in fact, the entire appearance of the place is what it
was in those glorious days when inhabited by the truest genius and the most unflinching patriot
that ever sprang from the sterling stuff that Englishmen were made of in those wonder-working
times. The genius of Andrew Marvel was as varied as it was remarkable;--not only was he a tender
and exquisite poet, but entitled to stand facile princeps as an incorruptible patriot, the
best of controversialists, and the leading prose wit of England. We have always considered
his as the first of the "sprightly runnings" of that brilliant stream of wit, which will carry
with it to the latent posterity the names of Swift, Steele, and Addison. Before Marvel's time,
to be witty was to be strained, forced, and conceited; from him--whose memory consecrates that
cottage--wit came sparkling forth, untouched by baser matter. It was worthy of him; its main
feature was an open clearness. The son's abilities at an early age were remarkable, and his
progress so great, that at the age of thirteen, he was entered as a student of Trinity College,
Cambridge; and it is said that the corporation of his natal town furnished him with the means
of entering the college and prosecuting his studies there. His shrewd and inquiring mind attracted
the attention of some of the Jesuit emissaries who were at this time lurking about the universities,
and sparing no pains to make proselytes. Marvel entered into disputations with them, and ultimately
fell so far into their power, that he consented to abandon the University and follow one of
them to London. Like many other clever youths, he was inattentive to the mere drudgery of university
attendance, and had been reprimanded in consequence; this, and the news of his escape from
college, reached his father's ears at Hull. That good and anxious parent followed him to London;
and, after a considerable search, at last met with him in a bookseller's shop; he argued with
his son as a prudent and sensible man should do, and prevailed on him to retrace his steps
and return with him to college, where he applied to his studies with such good-will and continued
assiduity, that he obtained the degree of Bachelor of Arts in 1638. His father lived to see
the fruits of his wise advice, but was only spared thus long; for he was unfortunately drowned
in crossing the Humber, as he was attending the daughter of an intimate female friend, who,
by this event becoming childless, sent for young Marvel, and by way of making all the return
in her power, added considerably to his fortune.

This accession of wealth gave him an opportunity of travelling, and he journeyed through Holland,
France, and Italy. While at Rome he wrote the first of those satirical poems which obtained
him so much celebrity. It was a satire on an English priest there, a wretched poetaster named
Flecknoe. From an early period of life Marvel appears to have despised conceit, or impertinence,
and he found another chance to exhibit his powers of satire in the person of an ecclesiastic
of Paris, one Joseph de Maniban, an abbot who pretended to understand the characters of those
he had never seen, and to prognosticate their good or bad fortune, from an inspection of their
handwriting. Marvel addressed a poem to him, which, if it did not effectually silence his pretensions,
at all events exposed them fully to the thinking portions of the community.

Beneath Italian skies his immortal friendship with Milton seems to have commenced; it was of
rapid growth, but was soon firmly established. They were, in many ways, kindred spirits, and
their hopes for the after destinies of England were alike. In 1653 Marvel returned to England,
and during the eventful years that followed, we can find no record of his strong and earnest
thoughts, as they worked upwards into the arena of public life. One glorious fact we know,
and all who honor virtue must feel its force,--that in an age when wealth was never wanting
to the unscrupulous, Marvel, a member of the popular and successful party, continued Poor.
Many of those years he is certain to have passed--

    "Under the destiny severe
    Of Fairfax, and the starry Vere--"

in the humble capacity of tutor of languages to their daughters. It was most likely, during
this period, that he inhabited the cottage at Highgate, opposite to the house in which lived
part of the family of Cromwell, a house upon which we shall remark presently. In 1657 he was
introduced by Milton to Bradshaw. The precise words of the introduction ran thus: 'I present
to you Mr. Marvel, laying aside those jealousies and that emulation which mine own condition
might suggest to me, by bringing in such a coadjutor.' His connection with the State took place
in 1657, when he became assistant secretary with Milton in the service of the Protector. We
can imagine the delight he felt at escaping from the crowded and stormy Commons to breathe
the invigorating air of his favorite hill, to enjoy the society of his former pupils, now his
friends; and to gather, in

    '----a garden of his own,'

the flowers that had solaced his leisure hours when he was comparatively unknown. But Cromwell
died, Charles returned, and Marvel's energies sprung into arms at acts which, in accordance
with his principles, he considered base, and derogatory to his country. His whole efforts were
directed to the preservation of civil and religious liberty.

It was but a short time previous to the Restoration that Marvel had been chosen by his native
town to sit as its representative in Parliament. The Session began at Westminster in April,
1660, and he acquitted himself so honorably, that he was again chosen for the one which began
in May, 1661. Whether under Cromwell or Charles, he acted with such thorough honesty of purpose,
and gave such satisfaction to his constituents, that they allowed him a handsome pension all
the time he continued to represent them, which was till the day of his death. This was probably
the last borough in England that paid a representative.[A] He seldom spoke in Parliament, but
had much influence with the members of both Houses; the spirited Earl of Devonshire called
him friend, and Prince Rupert particularly paid the greatest regard to his councils; and whenever
he voted according to the sentiments of Marvel, which he often did, it used to be said, by
the opposite party, that 'he had been with his tutor.' Such certainly was the intimacy between
the Prince and Marvel, that when he was obliged to abscond, to avoid falling a sacrifice to
the indignation of those enemies among the governing party whom his satirical pen had irritated,
the Prince frequently went to see him, disguised as a private person.

The noted Doctor Samuel Parker published Bishop Bramhall's work, setting forth the rights of
kings over the consciences of their subjects, and then came forth Marvel's witty and sarcastic
poem, 'The Rehearsal Transposed.'[B] And yet how brightly did the generosity of his noble nature
shine forth at this very time, when he forsook his own wit in that very poem, to praise the
wit of Butler, his rival and political enemy. Fortune seems about this period to have dealt
hardly with him. Even while his political satires rang through the very halls of the pampered
and impure Charles, when they were roared forth in every tavern, shouted in the public streets,
and attracted the most envied attention throughout England, their author was obliged to exchange
the free air, apt type of the freedom which he loved, for a lodging in a court off the Strand,
where, enduring unutterable temptations, flattered and threatened, he more than realized the
stories of Roman virtue.

The poet Mason has made Marvel the hero of his 'Ode to Independence,' and thus alludes to his
incorruptible integrity:--

    'In awful Poverty his honest Muse
      Walks forth Vindictive through a venal land;
    In vain Corruption sheds her golden dews,
      In vain Oppression lifts her iron hand;
    He scorns them both, and arm'd with Truth alone,
    Bids Lust and Folly tremble on the throne.'

Marvel, by opposing the ministry and its measures, created himself many enemies,[C] and made
himself very obnoxious to the government, yet Charles II. took great delight in his conversation,
and tried all means to win him over to his side, but in vain; nothing being ever able to shake
his resolution. There were many instances of his firmness in resisting the offers of the Court,
in which he showed himself proof against all temptations.

We close our eyes upon this peaceful dwelling of the heroic senator, and imagine ourselves
in the reign of the second Charles, threading our way into that 'court off the Strand,' where
Marvel ended his days. We enter the house, and climbing the stairs even to the second floor,
perceive the object of our warmest admiration. He is not alone, though there is no possibility
of confounding the poet with the courtier. Andrew Marvel is plainly dressed, his figure is
strong, and about the middle size, his countenance open, and his complexion of a ruddy cast;
his eyes are of a soft hazel color, mild and steady; his eyebrows straight, and so flexible
as to mould without an effort into a satirical curve, if such be the mind's desire; his mouth
is close, and indicative of firmness; and his brown hair falls gracefully back from a full
and noble forehead. He sits in an upright and determined manner upon an uneasy-looking high-backed
chair. A somewhat long table intervenes between him and his visitor; one end of it is covered
with a white cloth, and a dish of cold meat is flanked by a loaf of bread and a dark earthenware
jug. On the opposite end is placed a bag of gold, beside which lies the richly-embroidered
glove which the cavalier with whom he is conversing has flung off. There is strange contrast
in the attitude of the two men. Lord Danby lounges with the ease of a courtier and the grace
of a gentleman upon a chair of as stiff and uncomfortable an appearance as that which is occupied
after so upright a fashion by Andrew Marvel.

"I have answered you, my lord," said the patriot, "already. Methinks there need be no further
parley on the subject; it is not my first temptation, though I most fervently desire it may
be the last."

The nobleman took up his glove and drew it on. "I again pray you to consider," he said, "whether,
if with us, the very usefulness you so much prize would not have a more extensive sphere. You
would have larger means of being useful."

"My lord, I should certainly have the means of tempting usefulness to forsake duty."

The cavalier rose, but the displeasure that flushed his countenance soon faded before the serene
and holy expression of Milton's friend.

"And are you so determined?" said his lordship, sorrowfully. "Are you really so determined?
A thousand English pounds are there, and thrice the sum--nay, any thing you ask----"

"My lord! my lord!" interrupted Marvel, indignantly, "this perseverance borders upon insult.
Nay, my good lord, you do not so intend it, but your master does not understand me. Pray you,
note this: two days ago that meat was hot; it has remained cold since, and there is enough
still for to-morrow; and I am well content. A man so easily satisfied is not likely to exchange
an approving conscience for dross like that!"

We pray God that the sin of Marvel's death did not rest with the great ones of those times;
but it was strange and sudden.[D] He did not leave wherewith to bury the sheath of such a noble
spirit, but his constituents furnished forth a decent funeral, and would have erected a monument
to his memory in the church of St. Giles-in-the-Fields, where he was interred; but the rector,
blinded by the dust of royalty to the merits of the man, refused the necessary permission.
Marvel's name is remembered, though the rector's has been long forgotten.[E]

Wood tells us, that Marvel was in his conversation very modest, and of few words; and Cooke,
the writer of his life, observes that he was very reserved among those whom he did not know,
but a most delightful and improving companion among his friends. John Aubrey, who knew him
personally, thus describes him: 'He was of a middling stature, pretty strong set, roundish
cherry-checked, hazle-eyed, brown-haired.' He was (as Wood also says) in conversation very
modest, and of a very few words. He was wont to say, that he would not drink high or freely
with any one with whom he would not trust his life.

Marvel lived among friends at Highgate; exactly opposite to his door was the residence of General
Ireton and his wife Bridget, the eldest daughter of Oliver Cromwell; and which house still
bears his name, and is described in 'Prickett's History of Highgate,' one of those local topographical
works which deserve encouragement:--'Cromwell House is supposed to have been built by the Protector,
whose name it bears, about the year 1630, as a residence for General Ireton, who married his
daughter and was one of the commanders of his army; it is, however, said to have been the residence
of Oliver Cromwell himself, but no mention is made, either in history or in his biography,
of his having ever lived at Highgate. Tradition states, there was a subterraneous passage from
this house to the mansion house which stood where the New Church now stands, but of its reality
no proof has hitherto been adduced. Cromwell House was evidently built and internally ornamented
in accordance with the taste of its military occupant. The staircase, which is of handsome
proportions, is richly decorated with oaken carved figures, supposed to have been of persons
in the general's army, in their costume; and the balustrades filled in with devices emblematical
of warfare. On the ceilings of the drawing-room are the arms of General Ireton; this and the
ceilings of the other principal apartments are enriched in conformity with the fashion of those
days. The proportion of the noble rooms, as well as the brick-work in front, well deserves
the notice and study of the antiquarian and the architect. From the platform on the top of
the mansion may be seen a perfect panorama of the surrounding country.'

The staircase above described is here engraved. It is a remarkably striking and elegant specimen
of internal decoration, of broad and noble proportion, and of a solid and grand construction
suitable to the time of its erection; the wood-work of the house is every where equally bold
and massive; the door-cases of simple but good design. There are some ceilings in the first
story which are in rich plaster work, ornamented with the arms of Ireton; and mouldings of
fruit and flowers, of a sumptuous and bold enrichment.

The series of figures which stand upon the newels of the staircase are all engraved below.
There are ten remaining out of twelve, the original number; the missing two are said to have
been figures of Cromwell and Ireton, destroyed at the Restoration. They stand about a foot
in height, and represent the different soldiers of the army, from the fifer and drummer to
the captain, and originally, to the commanders. They are curious for more reasons than one;
their locality, their truthfulness, their history, and the picture they help us to realise
of the army of Cromwell are all so many claims on our attention.

FOOTNOTES:

[A] The custom of paying members of the House of Commons for the loss of time and travelling
expenses, was common in the seventeenth century; constituencies believed such equivalents necessary
for the attention to their interests and wishes which a Parliamentary agent was expected to
give. In the old Corporation books of provincial towns are many entries for payments to members
of Parliament, and in some instances we find them petitioning to Government for disfranchisement,
because they could not afford to pay the expenses of a Member.

A NOVELIST'S APPEAL FOR THE CANADAS.

Among the new English novels is one entitled Ellen Clayton, or the Nomades of the West, by
Douglass Huyghue. The author seems to feel for the red men the same regard which the adventurous
artist and traveller Catlin has expressed in England, and his work comes in aid of those appeals
which Catlin has so often made on their behalf. Such a motive entitles the author to respect,
and gives an additional value to the book; while the talent with which it is written, renders
it a narrative of unusual interest. In nothing but its theme is it like to any of Cooper's
novels. Its incidents and its characters are not similar, and they lack truthfulness quite
as much as they lack similarity. We know something of Indian life; in our youth we saw much
of it; and we regard Cooper as its faithfulest delineator in literary art. The time at which
this romance opens is in the year 1600, when the wars between France and England led to hostilities
in Canada, and when an abortive attack was made upon Quebec by the British and colonial army.
The hero and heroine are victims to the disasters of that war, and in describing their adventures,
Canada, and the condition of its civilized as well as of its wild inhabitants, are vividly
presented. The incidents justify the author in making this appeal to his English readers when
he reminds them of the associations that should ever be connected with the fortress of Quebec:--

     "Men of England, look not coldly upon the interests of that
     land for the possession of which your fathers fought and bled.
     Quench not irretrievably the flame of loyalty which burns in
     many an earnest heart, loath to contract these new ties which
     the progress of an irresistible destiny would seem to favor, at
     the sacrifice of affection for the fatherland. The blood of the
     greatest and wisest nation since the days of the Romans, flows
     in the veins of the Anglo-Americans, unadulterated by the air
     of another hemisphere, and stimulated into vigorous action by a
     necessity for continual exertion, combined with an entire
     liberty of thought which calls into play every resource of the
     physical and intellectual man. The sturdy and intelligent race
     that treads the virgin soil of Canada, can surely claim
     equality, at the very least, with the denizens of older Europe;
     cramped as they are for want of room, and enervated by an
     ultra-civilization that wrongs nature, and has almost taken the
     sceptre from her hand to put it into that of art. The British
     colonist enjoys a peculiar exemption from those prejudices,
     which, for so many ages, have retarded progress, and are
     successively being overcome by the convictions of a more
     enlightened era. There is a voice in the woods and mountains of
     a great solitude that elevates the soul and fortifies it with
     courage in the time of need. The great torrents and inland seas
     of that noble country have schooled the generation, nurtured by
     their side, into a strong conception of freedom, and the right
     to be justly dealt with, at the hands of those with whom it is
     connected by the double alliance of kindred predilection. A
     pernicious, temporizing policy has of late caused such wounds
     as may not be healed up very easily, we fear. The upright
     colonist has seen an unprincipled faction permitted to ride
     triumphant over those whose intentions are honest, and whose
     loyalty is proven. Let us hope, that ere long something of the
     chivalrous generosity of other days will pervade the councils
     of the state, and rouse the stalwart spirit of the Briton to
     scourge this ignominy from the land; if encouragement be due at
     all, it surely is to those true-hearted provincials who are
     avowedly proud of the great people from whence they derive
     their character, their language, and their laws--and who are as
     able, as they are willing, to preserve unto their beloved
     Sovereign the colony their sires won."

This is tolerably good rhetoric, but it is not likely to have much effect when the strong argument
and imposing eloquence of statesmen have failed to arrest attention. We see notices of another
political novel referring to Canada, which deals more directly, if with less talent, with the
disabilities and wishes of the people. It is entitled, The Footsteps of Montcalm, and its hero,
descended from a follower of the brave Frenchman, contrasts with his ideal of freedom and happiness,
the laws, institutions, habits, and miseries, which he regards as inseparable from the colonial
relation. As in the rebellion of 1838, whatever disaffection now prevails in British America,
is probably shared much less largely by the English than by the French population. Political,
religious, or sectarian novels, however, executed never so cleverly, are but sugared pills
at which the appetite revolts as soon as the quality is discovered.

DR. WEBSTER, PRESIDENT OF THE NEW-YORK FREE ACADEMY.

Throughout the world an extraordinary degree of attention has recently been directed to systems
and means of Education, and the truth has at length been generally recognized that the stability
and glory of nations must depend upon the intelligence and virtue of their inhabitants. In
our own country, which is most of all interested in the diffusion of knowledge, unexampled
efforts are being made not only for the general improvement of the culture offered in the seminaries,
but for that elevation of the laboring classes which, whatever may be said by ambitious feeble-minds,
seeking for reputation as reformers of the social system, is really to be found only in a wise
development of individual capacities for the strife that has been and must be waged for individual
well-being.

There have been many improvements suggested or realized lately in collegiate education. We
have been gratified with Professor Sedgwick's admirable treatise on the subject, which, at
this time, is receiving in England that consideration to which any thing from the mind of one
so distinguished is entitled. In this country we think no one, upon the whole, has written
more wisely than Dr. Wayland, whose views are to be illustrated in the future government of
the university over which he has so long presided. But we shall not be satisfied until we have
a great institution, as much above the existing colleges as they are above the common schools
in the wards of the city, to which bachelors of arts only shall be admitted, and to which they,
whether coming from Harvard, Oberlin, or Virginia, shall be admitted without charge.

The establishment of the NEW-YORK FREE ACADEMY is suggestive of many things, and of this among
them. We suppose a discussion whether our colleges supply the degree of education suitable
to our general condition, could be entertained only by dunces; the point whether they furnish
the kind and quality of culture to fit men for efficient and just action, in such public affairs
and private occupations as the humblest may be called to in a free state, has been amply discussed,
and it is decided against the colleges.

Our schools, called colleges, have for the most part been fashioned after the universities
of Europe, but they have in all cases been inadequately endowed, and without the internal police
which is necessary to their vigorous administration. Nine-tenths of the professors are incompetent,
and quite one half of them, in any thing worthy the name of university could claim admission
only to the class of freshmen; while those who are capable of a reputable performance of their
duties--so uncertain are the revenues of the institutions to which they are attached--are very
frequently compelled to modify regulations and relax discipline to such a degree that the colleges
become only schools of vice or nurseries of indolence.

The deficiency is of authority. It is useless to talk about courses of study, or any thing
else, until the discipline of the schools is as absolute as that of the camp, the factory,
or the counting-room. We are inclined to believe that the usefulness of the Military Academy
at West Point,--which has furnished so large a proportion of the best civil engineers, lawyers,
physicians, and divines, as well as the soldiers who and who alone have conducted our armies
to real glory,--we are inclined to believe that this justly celebrated school owes all its
triumphs to its rigid laws and independence of popular clamor.

Discipline is every thing. Without it a man is but a fair model in wood, which by it is turned
to an engine of iron, and by opportunity furnished with water and fire to impel it on a resistless
course through the world. And a man must be governed by others before he will govern himself.
The silliness about liberty which is sometimes obtruded into discussions of this subject, is
fit for very young children and very old women. There is no desirable liberty but in obedience.
The cant about it sometimes illustrates only a pitiable feebleness of intellect, but it more
frequently discloses some kind or degree of wilful licentiousness. The "voluntary system" does
very well in the churches. It will not do at all in the colleges. St. Paul is always found
even with the wisdom of the age in which he is quoted, and he tells us that a youth "differeth
nothing from a servant, though he be lord of all, but is under tutors and governors." This
is the true philosophy. The "sovereign" people who disregard law, and exult when it is outraged
at the cost of an unpopular party, have not learned what is necessary to freedom; they are
not fit for it; they will destroy its fairest fabrics, if the state does not prepare its children
by a thorough discipline for their inheritance. The way is by free schools and free colleges,
supported by public taxes. Sects and parties may have as many seminaries as they choose, and
with rules of study and conduct so easily to be complied with, and administrations so lax,
that the most contemptible idler or the most independent and self-willed simpleton shall see
in them nothing to conflict with his habit or temper; but the graduates of these seminaries
will not ascend the pinnacles of fame nor direct the affairs of nations: such affairs will
be left for those who have learned, with their arithmetic, the self-denial, reverence and obedience,
which are the conditions of the application of addition and division in the high mathematics.

In a free college (and the New-York Free Academy is, in all respects, more justly to be considered
a college than are most of the schools which confer academical "honors"), in a free college,
of which the professors are responsible only to a judicious board of directors, examinations
for admissions and for advancements will be rigid and impartial, the administration will be
vigilant and firm, the reckless who will not and the imbecile who cannot acquire a good education,
will be dismissed for more congenial pursuits, the rich and the poor will be upon an equality,
and only desert will be honorably distinguished.

The New-York Free Academy is eminently fortunate in its officers. HORACE WEBSTER, LL. D., is,
in all respects, admirably fitted for his position as its President. He perfectly understands
the indispensableness of thorough organization, and absolute and watchful discipline. Dr. Webster
is a native of Vermont, and is of that family which, in various departments, has furnished
the country some of its most illustrious names. At an early age, he became a student of the
Military Academy, and so has himself experience of the advantages of that system which he advocates,
and illustrates in his own administration. He graduated with distinction, and it is properly
mentioned as an indication of his standing at West Point that, while he was a cadet of the
first class, he was selected by the government of the Academy to be temporarily himself an
instructor. In 1818 he joined the army, as a lieutenant, and after passing one year with his
regiment, of which the late General Taylor was at that time the Major, he was elected Assistant
Professor of Mathematics in the Military Academy, and returned to fulfil for six years, with
constantly increasing reputation, both for scientific abilities and for personal character,
the duties of that office, which it scarcely need be said are more difficult at West Point
than in any other school in America. Among the distinguished gentlemen who were associated
with him in teaching or as students during this period, were General Worth, Colonel Bliss,
Colonel Thayer, Colonel Mansfield, and Professors Alexander D. Bache, LL. D., Charles Davies,
LL. D., E. C. Ross, LL. D., and John Torrey, LL. D. Resigning his commission, he was in 1825
made Professor of Mathematics and Natural Philosophy in Geneva College, and he filled this
place twenty-three years, leaving it in 1848, to accept the Presidency of the New York Free
Academy. We conceive that nothing could have invested this school with a higher claim to respect,
or challenged for it a larger degree of confidence, than the selection of a man of such experience,
capacities, and reputation, to be its chief officer; and for the class of persons likely to
come under his instruction, no course of study could be more judicious, no training more admirably
adapted, than may be expected from one who has been so long and so successfully engaged in
preparing men for the most difficult and important offices. His attainments needed no illustration,
and his administrative abilities have been amply vindicated by his government of the Free Academy.

Candidates for admission to the Free Academy must have passed at least one year in the public
schools, and they are examined in the common English studies. The standards for admission are
not so high as the colleges demand, because the period of instruction is longer. We cannot
enter into any particular statement of the courses of study, but it will be interesting if
we indicate their character very briefly, and describe the chief teachers. Edward C. Ross,
LL. D., the Professor of Mathematics, is, like Dr. Webster, a graduate of the Military Academy,
and was many years a successful teacher in that institution and in Kenyon College. He is assisted
by G. B. Docherty, A. M., who was formerly the Principal of the Flushing Institute. The course
embraces all the studies necessary for the best accomplishment in engineering, and indeed is
as thorough and complete as that pursued at West Point, with the modifications appropriate
to the prospective pursuits of the pupils. Theodore Irving, A. M., is Professor of History
and Belles-Lettres, assisted by Edward C. Marshall, A. M., and G. W. Huntsman, A. M. These
gentlemen have experience, and we believe their system of instruction is in some respects original
and in every way very excellent. Mr. Irving is a kinsman of "Geoffrey Crayon," and himself
master of a pleasing and classical style. Oliver Wolcott Gibbs, A. M., M. D., Professor of
Chemistry, Natural Philosophy, Mineralogy, and Geology, is one of the best practical chemists
in this country, having completed his own education under the celebrated Liebig, in Germany,
and since in many ways evinced such capacities in this department, as made his selection for
the place he occupies almost a matter of course. John J. Owen, D. D., whose scholarship is
exhibited in his ably edited series of the classical authors of these languages, is Professor
of Greek and Latin, and we neither agree with nor have much respect for those who deprecate
the attention demanded in the Academy for such studies. The French, Spanish and German languages
are taught by Professors Roemer, Morales, and Glaubensklee, all of whom are known to the public
for such talents as are necessary in their positions. Mr. Paul P. Duggan, a painter whose works
adorn many of our best collections in art, is Professor of Drawing.

The Free Academy will fulfil the reasonable expectations of its founders. It is admirably designed,
and its appointments and administration have thus far been judicious. We lack yet a University:
there is no school in America deserving this title; all our colleges should be regarded as
gymnasia, sifting the classes of the common schools and preparing their more advanced and ingenious
pupils for such an institution; and the Free Academy may be accepted as a model by which they
can be reshaped for their less ambitious but more appropriate duties. This is a subject ably
and properly treated in Professor Tappan's recent volume on Education, (published by Mr. Putnam,)
to which we beg attention.

The whole number of students now attending the Free Academy is three hundred and twenty-nine,
of whom one hundred and five were admitted at the last examination, in February. The number
for whom the building is designed is about six hundred.

Authors and Books.

A book which we cannot too highly recommend is the Briefe über Humboldt's Kosmos (Letters on
Humboldt's Cosmos), published at Leipzic, in two octavo volumes, from the pens of Professor
COTTA and Professor SCHALLER. It is intended to serve as a commentary upon that work, which
it is well worthy to accompany. Without attempting an exhaustive treatise on the details of
the various topics touched on by Humboldt, the writers have expanded some of the leading points
of his work into scientific essays, whose practical utility is none the smaller for an elegant
and attractive style, and a genial enthusiasm, of which Humboldt need not be ashamed. The first
volume, by Professor Cotta, contains forty letters on the following themes: The enjoyment of
nature; matter and forces, growth and existence; natural philosophy; the fixed stars, their
parallaxes, groups, movements, nebulæ; double stars, structure of the universe, resisting medium;
the solar system; the laws of motion, Kepler and Newton; density of the heavenly bodies; our
moon, its orbit, no atmosphere, no water; comets; meteors, and meteoric stones; form of the
earth; magnetism; volcanic activity; gas-springs; geysers; internal structure of the earth;
history of organisms, their first origin, and developments; the surface, its forms, and their
influence on animated life; the gradual rising and sinking of the surface in Sweden; the tides;
circulation of water on the earth--springs, cold, warm, mineral, artesian--rivers, seas, ocean
currents, evaporation and condensation; glaciers; the atmosphere, climate, weather, winds,
storm-clouds; organic life on the earth, its nature, differences, origin of the differences,
original production, creation, first appearance; man, his origin, races, forms, phrenology,
&c. These letters offer, as we have already said, in a pleasing and attractive form, a condensed
and comprehensive view of what is now known with reference to the sciences treated. The letter
upon Man is especially interesting. Professor Cotta belongs to those who think the human race
to be "the gradual perfection, through thousands of generations," of a lower order of creatures.
"The human individual," he says, "even now, in the embryonic state, passes through the condition
of various sorts of animals. The most eminent anatomists have shown that before birth we for
a time resemble a polypal animal, then for a time a fish, next a reptile, till at last appear
the characteristics of a mammalia. This is a fact which bears strongly in favor of our view.
The genesis and development of the entire species seem to be here condensed in the growth of
the individual." But while setting forth this peculiar view, Professor Cotta, with true German
comprehensiveness, takes care to give a fair statement of opposing doctrines, and evinces nothing
like a narrow dogmatism. The second volume, like the second volume of the Cosmos, is that which
will most interest and delight the general reader. It contains thirty-two letters, mainly on
the following subjects: the view of nature in general; the religious view; the various forms
of the religious view; the æsthetic view; the inward connection of the æsthetic enjoyment of
nature with its artistic representation; the scientific view as empirical science and natural
philosophy; the relations of the various views of nature to each other; the poetic comprehension
of nature among the Indians; the poetic comprehension of nature among the Jews, the Greeks,
and the Romans; the Christian contemplation of nature; German poetry in the middle ages; Italian
poetry; the poetic comprehension of nature in modern times; the representation of nature by
painting, and its gradual appearance in the history of art; the physiognomy of plants in connection
with the physiognomy of nature in general; description of several plant formations; general
outlines of the animal world; history of the physical view of the universe; natural science
among the Phenicians, the Greeks, at the time of the Ptolemies, at the time of the Roman Empire,
and in the middle ages; natural history of modern times, Bacon, Copernicus, Kepler, Galileo,
Newton; the mechanical doctrine of modern physics; the dynamic view of nature; Fichte's doctrine,
and the natural philosophy of Schelling and Hegel. This volume, as will be easily understood,
gives at once a history of religion, philosophy, art, literature, and science, in their relations
to the outward universe. For instance, under the head of natural science among the Greeks,
we have among other things an account of the doctrine of the Pythagoreans, Plato, and Aristotle;
in treating the middle ages, Professor Schaller speaks of the Scholastics, Thomas Aquinas,
Roger Bacon, Giordano Bruno, and Paracelsus. One of the most interesting parts of the whole
is that on the poetic view of nature among the Hindoos, Jews, Greeks, Romans, Germans, and
Italians, the historical statement being every where illustrated by copious quotations of admirable
passages from the poets of those nations. The strictly scientific portions are illustrated
by excellent engravings, and are free from mere technicalities. Sold in New-York by R. Garrigue.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Vestiges of Creation has been translated into German by Charles Vogt, a savan who in late
years has become noted as a radical politician. The translation is highly praised. Published
at Brunswick.

       *       *       *       *       *

The translation of HEGEL'S Aesthetik into French is now nearly completed at Paris, the fourth
volume, which is devoted to the consideration of music and poetry, having just been published.
One volume more will complete the work. The translator is M. Charles Bénard.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE HUMAN RACE AND ITS ORIGIN.--Under the title of Histoire Générale des Races Humaines, M.
Eusebe-François de Salles has just published at Paris an elaborate work on Ethnography, for
which he had prepared himself by long and careful personal observation of most of the races
on the globe, his travels having extended into nearly all climes and regions. He takes the
ground of the descent of the entire human family from a single pair, created adult and perfect
in mind and body, not by any simple evolution of nature, but by a direct act of the Divine
Being. The paradise or home of this pair he places to the north of India and the east of Persia.
All the varieties of men now existing he attributes to the influence of climate and circumstances.
"The first light of history," he says, "shows us the human family in possession of a language,
and of a certain degree of science, the inheritance of the past. Its aptitudes, its passions,
and outward circumstances, may increase this inheritance, keep it the same, or diminish it.
In peoples enervated by luxury and by doubt, in tribes softened by too favorable a climate,
or separated too long from the stronger and better educated masses,--in a family or a couple
exiled by a catastrophe, a shipwreck,--we are to seek the origin of the decline into the various
degrees of corruption, barbarism, the savage state, and brutality. Imagine a boat from the
coast of America, or from the South Sea Islands, cast by a tempest on some unknown shore or
some desert island. A few young persons, a few children, alone escape from the shipwreck, knowing
imperfectly the language, the arts, and the family traditions of their parents. Such is the
origin of the unfortunates sometimes met with, who are ignorant even of the use of fire." Against
the spontaneous generation of the human race in several localities he argues at length as an
utter absurdity, the point of his argument being, that isolated couples so produced would be
unable to resist the inhospitality of nature without miraculous aid, and one miracle, he contends,
is more admissable than ten or a dozen. But the chief grounds upon which he labors to establish
his doctrine are the similitude of the most ancient traditions among all branches of the human
species, the affiliation and analogy of languages, and the identity of organization and equality
of aptitudes. He finds similar traditions among the Hebrews, the Chaldeans, the Phoenicians,
the Egyptians, the Ethiopians, the Hindoos, the Persians, the Chinese, the Thibetans, the Scythians,
and the Americans. In the theogonies and cosmogonies of the Aztecs of America, he says that
the traditions of ancient Asia are plainly to be found, while some vague traces of these primitive
narratives are to be found even among the savages of Oceanica, and the most barbarous and miserable
negroes of western Africa. To the negroes he devotes perhaps the most careful and learned portion
of the work. Starting from the discovery of M. Flaurens as to the pigmentum or coloring matter
of the skin, he contends with great force that nothing but the gradual influence of climate,
giving a greater and greater intensity to the action of this coloring matter, which exists
in every race and every individual, has caused the essential difference between whites and
blacks. For, he argues, there is no other difference between them than that of color, all the
other features, such as the prominent mouth, the woolly hair, the facial angle, being in no
wise exclusively peculiar to the Africans. And so, after having gone over the entire race in
detail, proving the identity of organization in every division, M. de Salles concludes that
the primitive complexion was olive, somewhat like the color of unburnt coffee, and the original
men had red hair. On the affiliation of languages he reasons at great length, with a striking
affluence of curious and learned detail. Languages, he remarks, become more and more complicated
and perfect as we ascend toward their origin. Next he considers the modifications by which
the present races of men have departed from the first family, and in so doing he takes up every
people that has ever been known. America, he thinks, was first settled by Mongol emigration,
with religious traditions, between the eighteenth and the fifteenth century before our era:
then, six or eight hundred years later, there was a second emigration of Hindoo races, with
traditions of architecture. With the Bible and the facts of geology as his starting point,
he demonstrates the falsity of the Egyptian, Hindoo, Chinese, and Mexican chronologies. The
six days of creation he takes as so many great epochs; the deluge he places at five thousand
years before Christ.

In our account of this book we have not strictly followed the order of the author. Thus he
makes the direct miraculous creation of man the concluding topic of his book, and treats it
not without a certain poetic elevation as comports with such an event. We have aimed only to
give the outlines of his doctrine, and for the rest recommend those of our readers who are
interested in such studies to procure and read the work.

       *       *       *       *       *

JOACHIM LELEWEL (a name honored by all lovers of liberty,) has just published at Breslau a
work on the geography of the middle ages, which is worthy of the warmest admiration. It consists
of an atlas of fifty plates, engraved by the hand of the venerable author, containing one hundred
and forty-five figures and maps, from eighty-eight different Arabic and Latin geographers of
different epochs, with eleven explicative or comparative maps and two geographical essays.
The whole work exhibits the most thorough acquaintance and conscientious use of the labors
of previous explorers in the same direction. The cost of importing a copy into this country
would be about eight dollars.

       *       *       *       *       *

MORE NEW GERMAN NOVELS.--The Siege of Rheinfels, by Gustave von See, is a historical romance,
founded on an episode from the wars of Louis XIV., against the German empire. While the Palatinate
and the left bank of the Rhine were ravaged by the French armies, the fortress of Rheinfels
held out obstinately against a siege which was prosecuted with fury by a much superior force.
Amid the scenes of this siege, passes the love-story that forms the kernel of the novel, which
is written with originality and talent. The historical part is equally attractive and vraisemblant.
A collection of romances under the title of Germania, has appeared at Bremen. It is intended
to serve as the beginning of an annual publication. The first number contains seven tales,
some of them by well known romance writers. The first is Eine Leidenschaft (A Passion), by
Louise von G., and is highly praised by the most reliable critics; it abounds in arch and graceful
humor. Spiller von Hauenschildt is the least successful of the contributors in respect to the
artistic treatment of his subject. His novel is socialistic. Adolph Hahr and Alfred Meissner
are also among the contributors. On the whole the book is a good one.

Leopold Schefer has published lately in Berlin The Bishop's Wife, a Tale of the Papacy, in
which the great Napoleon of the church, Hildebrand, figures as the hero. The Germans have never
succeeded in the historical novel. With vast resources in materiel, they have always a vagueness,
a want of definite interest, of picturesque arrangement, and of sustained and disciplined power.
Schefer is a scholar, and his didactic purpose is plain enough, and well enough managed. The
Teutonic character has always instinctively revolted against the practice of celibacy, a form
of ascetism quite natural, and sometimes perhaps inevitable, as a reaction against the unbridled
sensualism of the Africans and Asiatics, but quite out of place in climes so temperate and
races so moderate, conscientious, and self-respecting as those of Northern Europe. It needed
all the genius and determination of Hildebrand himself to enforce the celibacy of the German
clergy, and certainly they have never ceased more or less covertly to revolt against it. It
is well understood that, at the present time, there is a very general wish among the Catholics
of Germany--more especially of South Germany, where they are not jealous of Protestant encroachments--to
have marriage allowed to the parochial clergy; and the clergy themselves are foremost in this
tendency, though it may not accord with their interest unreservedly to display it. It has,
however, betrayed its existence in various ways, especially in anonymous literary productions,
in prose and verse. So general is this feeling, and so profound the conviction that something
must be done, that in 1848 it was very generally credited that the Pope was prepared to sanction
a relaxation of the laws of the church in this respect. For this belief, however, there could
have been no just foundation, since Pius IX. is the reputed author of the official reply, made
while he was but a priest, to the Brazilian Archbishop Feijo, upon this very subject, in which
it was alleged that such a relaxation of discipline would be an abandonment of the "integrity
of the church." Yet without something of the kind, it is thought that a very extensive schism
in catholic Germany will be inevitable.

       *       *       *       *       *

Der Mensch im Spiegel der Natur (Man in the Mirror of Nature), is an excellent little work
for popular use, by Mr. E. A. Rossmässler, published at Leipzic, in two neat volumes, with
wood-cuts. It sets forth, in the most attractive form, the elementary facts of science, they
being ingeniously interwoven into a narrative of the journeys, friendships, and adventures
of the author. The work well deserves a translation into English.

       *       *       *       *       *

A work of extreme interest to geologists is the Gaea Norwegica, edited by Professor KEILHAU
of the Christiana University, and published at that place. The first volume is just completed.
No country of Europe is more important in respect of geological science than Norway, and the
labors of Professor Keilhau and his associates are of the most thorough and solid kind. The
volume contains 516 pages folio. Cost in America $4.50.

       *       *       *       *       *

A GERMAN nobleman lately wrote to the French Academy, offering to give that body a yearly income
of 10,000 francs to be spent in two prizes, one of 5,000 francs for the best essay in defence
of Catholicism, and another of the same sum for the best essay in defence of Absolutism. The
Academy declined the offer.

       *       *       *       *       *

A SYSTEM of Christian Ethics has lately been published at Regensburg, by Dr. WERNER, Professor
in the Catholic Theological Seminary of St. Polten. The writer holds that all virtue flows
from the mystic fountain of regeneration, and is confirmed and supported solely by the sacraments
of the church.

       *       *       *       *       *

WILHELM MEINHOLD, author of the Amber Witch, lately the pastor of a parish in Pomerania, is
now in Berlin, preparing for admission into the Roman Catholic Church. It is not long since
he forfeited his place in the Protestant Church by a street fight, for which, we believe, he
was imprisoned.

       *       *       *       *       *

The College of Rabbis, at Padua, offers 1000 florins ($400) as a prize for the best descriptive
and critical work on the political and religious history of the Israelites from the first siege
of Jerusalem to the time of the latest writers of the Talmud.

       *       *       *       *       *

MRS. ROBINSON'S (Talvi's) History of the Colonization of America, originally published in the
German language, has been translated by Mr. William Hazlitt, and printed in London.

       *       *       *       *       *

GEDICHTE VON JEANNE MARIE (Poems by Jeanne Marie) is the title of one of the latest products
of the German muse. The authoress is well known and well liked by those readers of German novels
who take delight in the genius of authoresses, and think ladies can write as well as men. Jeanne
Marie has seen much, felt much, and thought almost if not quite as much as she has seen and
felt. Her poetic culture is however still defective, and her stories are better than her lyrics.
The latter lack finish and correctness, and abound in mere conceits rather than in genuine
poetic images. Where she attempts simply to narrate an event in the ballad style she is more
successful.

       *       *       *       *       *

A BOOK of curious historical interest is now in course of publication in Germany, the first
volume of which has already made its appearance. It is the Diary of General Patrick Gorton,
who served in Russia during a large part of the seventeenth century, where he attained the
highest military rank. He was in the habit of noting every thing that passed around him, or
with which he was connected, whether of a political, military, or personal nature. His field
of service extended throughout the entire empire, and embraced the most important events in
the reign of Peter the Great. He participated in the suppression of the corps of Strelitzes,
made two campaigns against the Turks, was active in Peter's reorganization of the army, &c.,
&c. The first volume comes down to 1678; the remainder will soon follow. As the whole was written
without any design of being communicated to the world, it is especially valuable for its glimpses
at the domestic habits of the country at that peculiar period.

       *       *       *       *       *

GEORGE SAND'S NEW DRAMA.--George Sand's Claudie has had a brilliant fortune at Paris, where
it was first performed the second week in January. It is a drama of peasant life, in three
acts, in prose. Jules Janin says of it: "The success of Claudie is a true, sincere, and energetic
success. It has impassioned the calmest souls; it has calmed the most agitated. This poem is
a veritable festival, full of the rustic delights of the country, of the most honorable passions
of the human heart, of the noblest sentiments. Add to this, a charm altogether new, a charm
both inspired and inspiring, in the style, which is reason and good sense in the most delicious
costume. Neither effort nor study is there, but only that simplicity so much sought for in
the most precious passages of Daphnis and Chloe translated to the Marivaux by Amyot himself.
The piece was listened to with ravishment. There was universal praise among the audience, an
inexpressible abundance of tears, of laughter, of gayety, of sighs, of words fitly spoken,
of eloquent silence." Of the plot we take the following account from an article by Paul de
Musset: From the beginning we feel the air of the country, the harvest, and the sun of August.
Farmer Fauveau is preparing to pay the harvesters. His employer, Dame Rose, a young and pretty
widow, has just returned from the city, where she had been for a lawsuit. Fauveau, a shrewd
but good-natured man, skilfully calls her attention to the sad and agitated air of his son,
who is no doubt in love with some one, and with whom can it be except his charming mistress?
Dame Rose admits that Sylvain Fauveau is a handsome fellow, and a good and intelligent workman,
who would manage affairs with discretion, but he would be jealous of his wife. Jealousy, replies
the old man, is a proof of love, and so Dame Rose begins to cherish the idea that Sylvain is
in love with her. This is not true, but the old man has said it purposely. He suspects Sylvain
of being in love with Claudie, a simple laborer in the harvest field, without a penny, and
gaining her living, with no other relative than a grandfather of eighty, who may any day become
a charge upon her little earnings. Claudie comes in from work with her grandfather, and they
ask for their pay, the harvest being finished, and it being six leagues to their home. They
are paid, and Sylvain takes care that they shall receive more than his father intends, and
that they shall be invited to the harvest festival. Claudie aids in the preparations, and Sylvain,
reproaching her tenderly for working after a day so fatiguing, takes from her the severer part
of the duties she has undertaken. But she only replies in monosyllables, and does not turn
her eyes from the plates and other utensils she is engaged with. Sylvain, troubled by this,
withdraws, murmuring at her coldness and indifference. We soon see the cause of this. A young
peasant appears. It is the handsome Denis Ronciat, the beau and cajoler of the village girls,
who utters an exclamation of surprise. A brief explanation informs us that Denis was betrothed
to Claudie when she was fifteen, that he had deceived and abandoned her like a villain, leaving
her a child, which had since died. This explains the gloomy air of Claudie, her indifference
to the advances of Sylvain, and her almost fierce determination never to marry. To complete
his outrages, Denis boldly avows his intention to marry Dame Rose, and offers money to her
he has betrayed, in order to bribe her to silence. The band of harvesters appears, bearing
in triumph the last sheaf, adorned with flowers and ribbons. The grandfather, Remy, full of
joy, pronounces a discourse of rude and simple eloquence on the beneficence of Providence,
and of the sun He causes to shine, after which a collection is proposed in favor of the orator
and his granddaughter. Every one gives his offering. Dame Rose puts in a new five-franc piece,
the father Fauveau a penny, Sylvain his watch, wishing that it were his heart, a child brings
an apple, and finally the last contributor approaches. This is Denis Ronciat: seeing the seducer
of his child, the indignation of the old man breaks out, he rejects the offering, and falls
as if struck with apoplexy, pronouncing a sort of mysterious malediction, which freezes with
horror all who hear it. In the second act Claudie is still at the farm, her grandfather having
been sick there for two months. She has been engaged as a servant to the farmer Fauveau, but
has not given the least hope to Sylvain, who has been constant in his attentions. Dame Rose,
in the mean time, has fallen in love with him, and is astonished that he has not declared himself.
Denis Ronciat, seeing his rival preferred, explains to the rich widow why the lover she desires
will not present himself, and from vengeance and vanity divulges the secret of poor Claudie.
Here we expect a storm of insults and reproaches to fall on the head of the dishonored girl.
But, as in the rest of the work, the author has laid aside the ordinary traditions, customs,
and conventionalities, to draw from the resources of her own genius. While all are preparing
to expel the domestic who has deceived every body by her air of candor and innocence, the old
man, whose reason has been wandering, listens. He recalls his recollections, and his presence
of mind returns at the critical moment. He rises, throws his arms around his granddaughter,
and naively recounts the story of the seduction and abandonment of Claudie: how she believed
in Denis, and gave him her heart without distrust; how Denis shamefully abused her confidence,
and abandoned her, when duty obliged him more than ever to be faithful. The old man adds that
he himself had neither reproached nor cursed her, but that he consoled her, that he took her
child upon his knees, and loved it, and despaired when it died. Finally he demands who would
presume to be severer toward his child, and feel her wrong more keenly than he. His simplicity,
magnanimity, and goodness, overpower all who hear him. A more gentle sentiment than even respect
and pity takes possession of every heart. The devotion of the old man raises the fallen girl,
and in the admiration he inspires the fault of Claudie is almost forgotten. But it is too late.
The old man takes the arm of his daughter, and leads her away with him. When the curtain rises
for the last scene, Dame Rose has retained Claudie and her grandfather at the house, a riot
in the village having prevented their departure. Denis has come near being stoned to death.
Finally he consents to repair his crime by marrying her he has betrayed. He is refused. Then
Sylvain offers himself to Claudie, but she says she is unworthy of him, and refuses obstinately.
Dame Rose, Fauveau, and even Sylvain's mother, try vainly to change her resolution. The old
man at last decides, by saying that he reads her soul, and knows that she loves Sylvain. His
authority makes her give a silent consent, and here the curtain falls. Claudie has been brought
out in elegant form by a Parisian publisher. Why should not some poet attempt a version into
English?

       *       *       *       *       *

Several new Plays and Operas have lately attracted attention in Paris. Paillasse, in five acts,
by MM. Dennery and Marc Fournier, produced at the Gaieté in November, was one of the greatest
hits during the latter part of 1850. The character of the conventional French mountebank, Paillasse,
the vagabond juggler of fairs and streets, was regarded as one of the finest creations of Frederic
Lemaitre, and in one of the Christmas revues a symbol of the piece passed before the eyes of
the audience as one of the types of the past year. It has since been brought out in London
with quite as much success, Madame Celeste (the quondam star of our Bowery?) in the character
of the wife of the mountebank. The musical season at Paris has been signalized by the production
of two successful operas. L'Enfante Prodigue of Auber is running a prosperous career at the
Académie de Musique. General opinion speaks highly of the music, and the piece appears to be
one of the most ingenious of M. Scribe. At the Opera Comique another opera by Scribe and Halevy,
La Dame de Pique, has been brought out with success. The libretto, taken from a Russian tale,
translated by M. Merimée, is one of the most fantastic Scribe has constructed. It is founded
on an old story about the Russian Empress Elizabeth, who had found out the secret of invariably
winning at play by means of three cards, of which the Queen of Spades (la Dame de Pique) was one.

       *       *       *       *       *

M. COMBET, a Protestant clergyman of Cevennes, has just published at Paris in three volumes
a work of great interest and value, under the title of Histoire de France sous le regne de
Henry III. par Mazerai. It comprises a full, conscientious and philosophic account of the French
religious civil wars, from the beginning of the Reformation down to the establishment of religious
liberty under the Consulate. To the original work of Mazerai, M. Combet has prefixed an elaborate
introduction, while he has added in the form of an appendix whatever relates to more recent
matters, with copious notes and commentaries. The whole constitutes an invaluable contribution
to the history of the modern religious movement.

       *       *       *       *       *

Some new contributions to the history of labor have just appeared at Paris. The most important
is the Histoire de la Classe ouvriere depuis l'esclave jusqu'au Proletaire de nos Jours, by
M. Robert (du Var), four volumes. Less general and comprehensive in its aim is Le Livre d'Or
des Metiers, Histoire des Corporations ouvrieres, by Paul Lacroix and Ferd. Serre, six volumes.
Both these books are written without an intention to establish any special theory or system.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE REV. G. R. GLEIG, author of The Subaltern's Furlough, Saratoga, &c., is now Inspector-General
of Military Schools, and lives in London.

       *       *       *       *       *

LEOPOLD RANKE, whose "Lives of the Popes of Rome" is familiar to American readers, has lately
discovered in the National Library at Paris an important long lost MS., by the Cardinal Richelieu.
In the MS. memoirs of the Cardinal, deposited at the Office for Foreign Affairs, an imperfection
has existed, in the total absence of a series of leaves from the most interesting part of the
collection. These appear to have been found accidentally, by M. Ranke, in a bundle of papers,
gathered from some of the old mansions in Saint Germains. It has been a disputed question whether
Richelieu was the real author of the works under his name; whether he availed himself of the
literary abilities of others, contributing no more from his own resources than here and there
an observation or a fact. These disputes have had reference to the Memoirs, the Testament,
and the Histoire de la Mère et du Fils; for there seems to be good reason for believing that
the books published previous to his political elevation, such as the De la Perfection du Chrétien,
the theological tracts, and his political treatise of 1614, were written by him with no more
than the ordinary aids of authorship. It is possible that the fragment, discovered by M. Ranke,
may afford additional evidence on this curious subject, which was lately debated in the Academy.

       *       *       *       *       *

Of bad spelling George Sand writes, apropos of some newspaper controversy in Paris, that so
far from bad spelling being a proof of want of capacity, she has a letter of Jean Jacques Rousseau,
in which there are ten faults of spelling in three lines. Moreover, she assures us, that she
herself frequently makes a lapsus pennæ for which a school-boy would be chastised.

       *       *       *       *       *

LOLA MONTES has made her debut in the literary arena, by the publication in the feuilleton
of a daily newspaper of the first portion of what she calls her "Memoirs:" a quasi-impertinent
epistle to the ex-king of Bavaria. Since, the publication has been suspended. It promised merely
scandal, without wit.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE COUNT DE MONTALEMBERT has been elected a member of the French Academy, in place of M. Droz.
The election gives little satisfaction outside the Institute; but the Count is not without
eminence as a man of letters. Some of his religious tracts are written with great eloquence
and pungency.

       *       *       *       *       *

The seventh and last volume of the Glossarium Mediae et Infimae Latinitatis has just been published
by the Didots at Paris. It is a perfect repertory of information as to the middle ages, and
cannot be dispensed with by any one who aims to study the institutions, history, and monuments
of that period.

       *       *       *       *       *

A complete grammar of the Coptic language has been brought out at Berlin, by Professor SCHWARTZE.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ITALIAN REVOLUTION.--Books relating to the late revolution in Italy and the events which
preceded it are now published in that country in considerable numbers. One by Farini, Lo Stato
Romano dall' anno 1815 all' anno 1850, not yet completed, only two volumes having been published,
will be found valuable to the future historian. Its author is a constitutionalist, and treats
the reign of Pius IX. strictly from that stand-point. His book must therefore be read with
discretion. With the third volume, which will soon appear, will be issued a second edition
of the first two volumes. Marquis F. A. Gualtiero of Orvieto has just brought out at Florence
the first volume of a large work, Gli Ultimenti Rivolgimenti Italiani, Memorie Storiche con
Documenti Inediti. This is excellent in respect to the pre-revolutionary events, giving a great
variety of information as to persons as well as circumstances, in considerable detail. It is
to be followed by an account of the revolution itself, treated of course in the same manner.
It hardly need be said that the Marquis must fail to do justice to Mazzini and the republicans.
An elaborate and able article reviewing the whole question has lately appeared in the Rivista
Italiana, from the pen of Signor Berti. One of the best books yet produced on the revolutionary
side is General Pepe's Guerres d'Italie.

       *       *       *       *       *

We noticed last month the anniversary meeting of the Archæological Institute at Rome. The same
society has just published its Annals, or Annual Memoirs, for 1850, a volume of great value
and interest. It contains Lanza's report on the excavations at Salona, continued down to the
year 1848. An essay is contributed by Canina upon the three temples of Pietas, Spes, and Juno
Sospita, on whose ruins is built the church of San Nicola in carcere, new remains of the temples
having been discovered in 1848. The statue of Apoxyomenos, found a year since at Trastavere,
as well as the series of Amazons in relievo now in the British Museum, which Emil Braun takes
to be relics of the famous Mausoleum, are treated at length. A little triangular candelabra,
found in the Baths of Titus, is made interesting from the relation of the figures upon it to
the worship of Apollo. The series of Etruscan frescoes has been greatly enriched by the pictures
in two tombs, one of which was discovered in 1846 by A. Francois, while the other was then
for the first time copied and rescued from entire oblivion. These pictures, which, like most
monumental works, represent funeral feasts and games, according to Braun, are valuable for
a mass of details relating to antique athletic art, which were before unknown. A Pompeiian
fresco, representing the twelve gods, hitherto little esteemed, is made the subject of a profound
investigation by E. Gerhard. Among the essays on vases, a long one by Welcker deserves especial
mention. It discusses all the known representations of the Death of Troilus. The sphere of
numismatics is filled by a long essay by Cavedoni on the Roman coins of the time of Augustus.
There are also many other articles of no less interest to scholars, antiquaries, and artists.

       *       *       *       *       *

M. ANTOINE D'ABBADIE received not long ago from President Bonaparte, the decoration of the
Legion of Honor, for alleged geographical discoveries in Africa. An "Inquiry" into M. Abbadie's
journey has just appeared in London, from the hand of Dr. Charles T. Beke, and it is not impossible
that the traveller will turn out a Damburger or a Hunter. Dr. Beke is an Englishman; D'Abbadie,
an Irishman by birth, but a Frenchman by name, education and allegiance. The latter professes
to have been the first European who ever put foot in the African Kingdom of Kaffa; the former
gives reasons for doubting his statements entirely, and does not believe the Frenchman has
even been in the country he describes at all.

       *       *       *       *       *

The great oriental scholar Monsignore MOLSA has been appointed to the office of Chief Guardian
of the Vatican Library, in the room of M. Laureani, whose melancholy death occurred a few months
ago; and the Abate Martinucci has been nominated to fill the office of sub-chief, which is
one of very considerable importance, and has hitherto been filled by some of the most eminent
of Italian scholars.

       *       *       *       *       *

We are to have from Paris a hitherto unpublished ode of PIRON, the well-known author of La
Metromanie. It is entitled Les Confessions de mon Oreiller, (Confessions of my Pillow,) and
is considered by connoisseurs to be decidedly authentic. It is signed and headed thus: "To
be given to the public a hundred years after my death."

       *       *       *       *       *

The vacancy occasioned by the death of M. ALBAN DE VILLENEUVE-BARGEMONT, in the list of members
of the French Academy of Moral and Political Sciences, has been filled by the election of M.
LOUIS REYBAUD, the author of Jerome Paturot, and husband of Madame Reybaud, who wrote the charming
novels of Le Cadet de Calabriere, Helena, &c.

       *       *       *       *       *

The sons of Rossi, the distinguished economist, and less distinguished minister of Pius IX.,
in which capacity he was assassinated, have published the third volume of his Cours d'Economie
Politique. It treats of the distribution of wealth, and is marked by the same ability and tendencies
as the volumes which preceded it, which were upon the production of riches.

       *       *       *       *       *

H. BAILLIERE, the eminent publisher, of Paris, has established a branch of his house at 169
Fulton street, New-York, where American scholars may obtain all the best scientific literature
of the time in suitable editions and at reasonable prices.

       *       *       *       *       *

Of MR. JAMES BAILEY, and the blasphemous rant and fustian and crude speculation which make
up his poem of "Festus," which has had such extraordinary popularity among our transcendentalists,
and which Shakspeare Hudson so excellently well reviewed in the Whig Review a year or two ago,
we think a correspondent of The Tribune speaks justly in the following extract from a letter
dated at Nottingham, in England:

"Apropos of Nottingham, I have seen Bailey, the author of 'Festus.' His father is proprietor
of the Nottingham Mercury, and the editorial department rests with him. He is a heavy, thick
set sort of man; of a stature below the middle size; complexion dark; and, in years about eight
and thirty. His physiognomy would be clownish in expression, if his eyes did not redeem his
other features. He spoke of 'Festus,' and of its fame in America, of which he seemed very proud.
In England, it has only reached the third edition, while eight or nine have been published
in the States. You know my opinion of the work. It is as far from being a great poem as the
Thames, compared with the Mississippi or the Ohio, is from being a great river. Anxiously,
anxiously have I sought one striking original idea in the whole poem (appalling in its length),
but to no purpose. The transcendental literature of Germany absorbs all that, at first glance,
arrests the attention. Without learning, imagination, or the attraction of a beautiful metre
(like that of Tennyson's 'Princess'), I am at a loss to know what has given this poem its notoriety.
Not its daring speculation, surely, for it is but a timid compromise between Orthodoxy and
Universalism."

       *       *       *       *       *

H. F. CLINTON has published in London the concluding volume of his Fasti Romani: the civil
and literary chronology of Rome and Constantinople from the death of Augustus to the death
of Heraclius. The first volume, containing the chronological tables, was published in 1845,
and formed a continuation of the Fasti Hellenici, by the same author. It came down to the death
of Justin II., A. D. 578. The present volume continues the tables from the latter date to the
death of Heraclius, A. D. 641; but the greater part of it consists of a series of learned dissertations
on various points connected with the civil and literary history of the Roman and Byzantine empires.

       *       *       *       *       *

CAPTAIN J. D. CUNNINGHAM, author of the "History of the Sikhs," who was dismissed from his
political situation at Bhopal, by orders of the Court of Directors, for having published an
official correspondence, without the permission of his immediate superiors, has been recalled
to public employment by the Governor-General of India, Lord Dalhousie having just appointed
him general superintending engineer in the north-western provinces.

       *       *       *       *       *

MR. HEPWORTH DIXON, author of "Howard and the Prison-World of Europe," has published in London
a Life of William Penn, which will be republished immediately by Lea & Blanchard of Philadelphia.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE LITERARY WOMEN of England were never so active as now. Mrs. Crowe has commenced in The
Palladium magazine a new novel entitled Estelle Silvestre. Miss Anne G. Greene has published
the third volume of her Lives of the Princesses of England; Mrs. David Ogilvy, Traditions of
Tuscany; Mrs. Gordon, Musgrave, a Story of Gilsland Spa; Maria de la Vaye, Eugenie, the Young
Laundress of the Bastille; Mrs. Norton, a new poem; the author of "Olivia," Sir Philip Hetherington;
Mrs. Ward, Helen Charteris, or Sayings and Doings in a Cathedral Town; Mrs. Hubbach, niece
of the celebrated Miss Austen, The Wife's Sister, or the Forbidden Marriage; Mrs. Jameson,
Legends of the Madonna, forming the conclusion of her series illustrating Sacred and Legendary
Art; the authoress of "Mary Powell" has commenced in Sharpe's Magazine a new work of the same
description, under the title of The Household of Sir Thomas More.

       *       *       *       *       *

MISS MARTINEAU began on the first of February, a serial work under the title of "Half a Century
of the British Empire; a History of the Kingdom and the People, from 1800 to 1850." It will
be in six volumes, and it is intended to present, in handsome octavos at a rate of extraordinary
cheapness, a connected narrative of the most important era in the history of the modern world.
"Half a Century of the British Empire," will chiefly deal with events and states of society
during a period in which many of our contemporaries have lived and acted.

       *       *       *       *       *

The correspondence of ROBERT SUTTON, Lord LEXINGTON, British Minister at Vienna in 1694, has
just been published by Murray in London, having recently been discovered in the library of
the Suttons, at Kilham. There is not much absolute value in their contents, historically speaking;
but the letters supply several striking and some amusing illustrations of characters already
known in history, and are a contribution really important to the history of manners and society
at the seventeenth century. The non-official letters are in this respect most curious and entertaining.

       *       *       *       *       *

Pensions of £100 a year each have been granted in England to Mrs. Belzoni, the aged widow of
the celebrated traveller; and to Mr. Poole, the author of Paul Pry, and of many contributions
to periodical literature, who is a great sufferer from bodily infirmities.

       *       *       *       *       *

CAPTAIN MEDWIN, whose book about Byron was once read by every body, and who for some time resided
in this country, turns up in Holland, after an oblivion of several years. He contributes to
the last number of the New Monthly an article entitled, Hawking at Loo.

       *       *       *       *       *

JOHN CLARE, the peasant poet, sometimes called the "rural Burns," is now in the Lunatic Asylum
at Northampton. There is much sweetness in some of poor Clare's verses, of which four volumes
appeared many years ago. We believe he was among the proteges of Southey. His complaints to
visitors of the madhouse are commonly of the injustice done to him by the public in not recognizing
him, instead of Scott and Byron, as the author of "Marmion" and "Don Juan," and in refusing
him the honor of having gained the battle of Waterloo. Clare was the writer, though not generally
known as such, of the lines, "Here we meet too soon to part"--which, set to one of Rossini's
most beautiful airs, were some time exceedingly popular.

       *       *       *       *       *

A new volume of the writings of De Quincey has just been published by Ticknor, Reed & Fields,
of Boston. It contains, with other admirable papers, those "On the Knocking at the Gate, in
Macbeth," "Murder considered as one of the Fine Arts," "Joan of Arc," and "Dinners, Real and
Reputed." These works of one of the greatest of living authors, have never before been collected,
and the publishers confer a most acceptable benefit by their edition of them. We have from
the same house a copy of the best English version of "Faust," that of Hayward.

       *       *       *       *       *

SIR EDWARD BULWER LYTTON is publishing a complete collection of his Poems and Dramas. This
edition will include several pieces not hitherto published, and those that have appeared before
will receive the author's last corrections and revision. Each volume will be illustrated with
an appropriate vignette title; and the first will contain, in addition, a portrait, from a
painting by Maclise.

       *       *       *       *       *

One of the most delightful books in natural history that we have ever seen is "Episodes of
Insect Life," recently published in England, and now in the press of Mr. Redfield, in this
city. It is divided into three "scenes," representing spring, summer, and autumn, and is profusely
and skilfully illustrated. It is even more entertaining than Lord Brougham's Dialogues on Instinct,
which we had regarded as the pleasantest work in such studies.

       *       *       *       *       *

DR. ACHILLI, whose imprisonment in the Roman Inquisition is a familiar story, has published
"Dealings with the Inquisition, or Papal Rome, her Priests and her Jesuits; with Important
Disclosures." It is an autobiography.

       *       *       *       *       *

SAMUEL BAILEY, whose "Essays on the Pursuit of Truth and on the Progress of Knowledge," "Essays
on the Formation and Publication of Opinions," &c., have been largely read in this country,
has just published a volume entitled, "The Theory of Reasoning, with Comments on the Principal
Points of Scholastic Logic."

       *       *       *       *       *

MAJOR POUSSIN'S "United States, their Power and Progress," a translation of La Puissance Americaine,
by Edmund L. Du Barry, U. S. N., has been published in a large octavo of about five hundred
pages, by Lippencott, Grambo, & Co., of Philadelphia. We take the opportunity to give some
account of the author.

Guillaume Tell Poussin was born in the autumn of the year 1796 in the department of the Seine
and Oise, in France. His father was a painter of some celebrity, who has left many fine works
in the galleries of Versailles and Rouen. Introduced, while a child, to the favor of Napoleon,
it was ordered by a special decree that, as a descendant of the great Nicholas Poussin, whose
works are among the chief glories of French art, William Tell Poussin should be educated at
the imperial school of Rouen. There he spent seven years, and passed his examination for admission
to the Polytechnic school. He entered this national academy of engineering, and in 1814, while
yet a youth, distinguished himself by his patriotic spirit, which prompted him to join his
comrades in the defence of the walls of Paris against an invading enemy. He was wounded at
the village of Aubervilliers, in an attack against the combined force of British and Russian
troops who occupied that position; and after the surrender of Paris his feelings were so excited
that he could not bring himself to acts of submission to the Bourbon family, but was arrested
on account of his opinions, and released only on the intervention of powerful friends. He soon
embarked for America, and arrived at New-York in November, 1815, having for recommendation
his ardent desire to be useful and a decided love of liberty. After a short residence in New-York
he proceeded to Philadelphia, where he expected to meet with some encouragement in his profession
as an engineer. Here he became acquainted with Mr. Fairman, the engraver, and worked for him
a few months with advantage, boarding meanwhile at a French house, into which the landlady
received him in consideration of the devotion of his leisure to the instruction of her children.
The next spring he removed to Washington, where he had heard that he could be profitably employed
in the rebuilding of the capitol, which the British army had destroyed in the late war. He
now worked as an architect for about a year, when, several leading senators and representatives
having become acquainted with him, and, taking a particular interest in him for his earnest
and manly character and the remarkable abilities he had evinced as an engineer, in the incidental
opportunities presented by his employment as an architect, they signed a petition to President
Madison for his admission to the corps of Topographical Engineers, which was then to be organized,
and he was at once transferred to the United States Army. A short time after, General Bernard,
whom Mr. Crawford, the American Minister at Paris, had engaged to be the chief of the Topographical
Engineers, arrived in Washington, and assuming his office proceeded to the necessary preparations
for that survey of the physical resources of our territory for national defence, and for tracing
the lines required to form a complete base of operations in time of war, on the assailable
portions of our frontier, for which the service had been instituted. Before leaving France,
General Bernard had received especial recommendations from the friends of young Poussin to
look after his interests, and when they met, therefore, their acquaintance was made on the
most intimate and agreeable terms on both sides. Upon the application of General Bernard to
the Secretary of War, Poussin was attached to his person as an aid-de-camp, and left Washington
with him for a military reconnaissance of the coast on the Gulf of Mexico, and of the delta
of the Mississippi. They spent a year and a half upon their important duties, in New Orleans
and its vicinity, regardless of the dangers of that climate, and in 1817 returned to the seat
of government and submitted to the President a particular and elaborate memoir of their operations.
It was upon this first report, presented by the Executive, on the Military Defences of the
United States,--a report drawn up in a very large degree by the hand of M. Poussin, and illustrated
throughout with his discovery and suggestion,--that Congress, by an almost unanimous vote,
authorized the erection of the great line of our military defences, adopting the recommendations
of the commissioner without even the slightest alteration. The Board of Military Engineers
entered subsequently on the yearly execution of their important duty of examining the coast
previous to determining the actual sites and descriptions of the works of defence which they
afterwards delineated. The young topographical engineer continued in his arduous scientific
labors, and thus contributed largely in the perfecting of that great national scheme. It was
in these military operations, and afterwards in the surveys for roads and canals, which, under
the supervision of a Board of Internal Improvements, where confided to a portion of the same
officers, assisted by civil engineers, that Poussin rendered himself so efficient as a practical
and scientific surveyor, and became so perfectly familiar with all the internal resources of
our extensive country, which he had thus most remarkable opportunities to study and appreciate,
by crossing it in all directions, and, in fact, by visiting every state, and by following up
and down every valley and river of the eastern half of the continent. Few men have had such
occasion of studying de visu the extent and resources of the republic; and the intelligent
readers of the volume before us will acknowledge, that few persons have shown themselves more
conversant with its astonishing advancement. His first publication was a description of the
works to which he had contributed, under the title of "A History of the Internal Improvements
of the United States;" his second, an account of all the railroads in this country, which had
considerable influence in developing in Europe a disposition toward our policy in this respect,
and entitles Major Poussin to the gratitude of all lovers of rapid and safe communication.
It was reproduced in Belgium and Germany, and has long been a textbook upon its subject in
those countries, as well as in France. His third work was the one now translated, La Puissance
Americaine, in which he has displayed, most emphatically, his admiration of our institutions,
and offered them as examples to communities aspiring after rational liberty. It may be said
of it, that it is the American system rendered popular by practical and convincing illustrations.

Major Poussin returned to France early in 1832, in the hope to coöperate in rendering popular
in his own country some of the political institutions of the United States, to which he always
attributed our great prosperity; but he was not fortunate enough to be admitted to active official
life. He employed himself in his profession of surveyor, and superintended several important
public works, and frequently in pamphlets and in contributions to the journals, labored for
the dissemination of American ideas. At last, when the Revolution of February, 1848, broke
out, he was chosen, with the greatest unanimity by the Provisional Government, to be the Representative
of Republican France near the Government of the United States. It was deemed the highest compliment
of which France was capable, that she sent as her minister the citizen most conversant with
our affairs, and most eminent for admiration of our institutions. His arrival in this country,
and the misunderstanding with the cabinet at Washington, which resulted in his recall by President
Bonaparte, cannot have been forgotten by the observant reader. We believe that few who have
carefully studied the conduct of Major Poussin in that affair, will be disposed, in the slightest
degree, to censure him, while the entire history will readily be consigned to oblivion by the
American who is in any degree sensitive upon the subject of our national honor.

       *       *       *       *       *

GUILLAUMIN ET CIE, the well known Parisian publishers, are about to add to their Collection
des Principaux Economistes several American works in this department. One volume, at least,
will be devoted to Henry C. Carey's masterly compositions, with a preface and commentaries;
another volume will be given to the Free Trade party, and will embrace the best things of Mr.
Walker, Mr. Raguet, Mr. Cardozo, Henry Middleton, Dr. Wayland, &c.; and essays by Mr. Phillips,
Horace Greeley, and other Protectionists, will probably constitute another. The Collection
now embraces Quesnay, Turgot, Dupont Nemours, Le Tronne, the Says, Galliani, de Montyon, Condillac,
Lavoisier, Adam Smith, Hume, Ricardo, Malthus, Bentham, and a dozen more. The only American
name in the list is that of Franklin quoted in the first volume of the Melanges, edited by
Daire and Molinari.

       *       *       *       *       *

JOSEPH GALES, of the National Intelligencer, has lately published several leading articles
of such compactness and completeness, such weight and dignity, as distinguish only the greatest
compositions in philosophy and upon affairs. The intellectual force acting through the press
of this country is habitually underrated. There are a dozen journals here which may be advantageously
compared with any in Europe, with the single exception of the Times. It would perhaps seem
invidious to point them out, from the greater number that are conducted with ability and energy;
but it will not be objected by any one who has the right to express an opinion in the case,
if we say that Mr. Gales is of the first rank of public men who have ever influenced or illustrated
the course of events by written eloquence or argument. The leading articles from his hand which
in the last twenty-five years have appeared in the National Intelligencer, would fill many
volumes; and if collected and so submitted to one view, they would astonish by their variety,
by the extraordinary resources of information which they evince, by their soundness of logic,
elevation of sentiment, and uniform adaptation to their several purposes. If they lack the
pungent wit, and fiery energy of phrase, and adroitly venomous spirit of "Junius," they have,
with their nobler calmness and uniform candor, a far wider sweep, a subtler apprehension of
consequences, and a more statesmanlike aim and capacity. The diction of "Junius" was calculated
to arrest attention, by its glitter and strength, and by its freshness; for it was in style,
after all, that he was most creative, and since his style has by imitation become familiar,
it is for the mystery of their authorship only that his works have continued eminence. As materials
for history, and as suggestive guides of policy, we have in American literature very few works
so important as the leading articles of Joseph Gales would constitute, fitly arranged, and
illustrated by such notes as he could readily furnish, necessary now on account of the time
since some of them were originally printed.

       *       *       *       *       *

The REV. HENRY T. CHEEVER'S "Whale and his Captors," (published last year by the Harpers,)
has been reprinted in London under the title of "The Whaleman's Adventures in the Northern
Ocean," with a highly and justly commendatory introduction by the Rev. W. Scoresby, D.D. F.R.S.
We have great pleasure in recording evidences of the popularity of such works as Mr. Cheever's.
They have a manly as well as a Christian spirit, and are needed to counteract the influences
of the many infidel books in which the effects of the Christian civilization in the Island
World are systematically misrepresented. We learn that Mr. Cheever is now engaged upon "The
Autobiography of Captain Obadiah Conger," who was fifty years a mariner from the port of New-York.
He is editing the MS. of the deceased sailor for the Harpers.

       *       *       *       *       *

MR. JOB R. TYSON, whose careful researches respecting the colonial history of Pennsylvania
have illustrated his abilities and his predilections in this line, is about to proceed to Europe,
for the consultation of certain documents connected with the subject, preparatory to the publication
of his "History of the American Colonies," a work in which, doubtless, he will not be liable
to the reproach of histories written by New-Englanders, that they exaggerate the virtues and
the influence of the Puritans. Mr. Tyson is of the best stock of the Philadelphia Quakers,
and the traditional fame of his party will not suffer in his hands.

       *       *       *       *       *

MR. HENRY JAMES, the author of "Moralism and Christianity," must certainly be regarded by all
who come into his fit audience as one of the greatest living masters of metaphysics. Mr. James
has never been mentioned in the North American Review; but then, that peculiarly national work
has not in all its seventy volumes an article upon Jonathan Edwards, whom Robert Hall, Dr.
Chalmers, Dugald Stuart, Sir James Mackintosh, Kant, Cousin, and a hundred others scarcely
less famous, have regarded as the chief glory in our intellectual firmament; it has never let
its light shine upon the pages of Legaré; it has preserved the most profound silence respecting
Henry Carey, William R. Williams, and Addison Alexander; so that it must not be considered
altogether conclusive as to Mr. James's merits that he has not had the seal of the North American's
approval. We regard him as one of the great metaphysicians of the time, not because, like Comte,
he has evolved with irresistible power and majestic order any grand and complete system, but
because he has brought to the discussion of the few questions he has attempted, so independent
a spirit, so pure a method, such expansive humanity, and such ample resources of learning,
as separately claim admiration, and combined, constitute a teacher of the most dignified rank,
who can and will influence the world. We do not altogether agree with Mr. James; on the contrary,
we have been regarded as particularly grim in our conservatism; but we are none the less sensible
of Mr. James's surpassing merits as a writer upon the philosophy of society. We dedicate this
paragraph to him on account of the series of lectures he has just delivered in New-York, upon
"The Symbolism of Property," "Democracy and its Issues," "The Harmony of Nature and Revelation,"
"The Past and Future Churches," &c. We understand that these splendid dissertations will be
given to the public in the more acceptable form of a volume. The popular lecture is not a suitable
medium for such discussions, or certainly not for such thinking: one of Mr. James's sentences,
diluted to the lecture standard, would serve for an entire discourse, which by those who should
understand it, would be deemed of a singularly compact body, as compared with the average of
such performances.

       *       *       *       *       *

PROFESSOR TORREY, of the University of Vermont, is one of the few contemporary scholars, whose
names are likely to survive with those of the great teachers of past ages. He has translated
Schilling's Discourse on Fine Arts, and other shorter compositions from the German; but his
chief labor in this way is, a most laborious and admirably executed version of Neander's History
of the Christian Religion and Church, published in Boston, and now being republished in London,
by Bonn, with Notes, &c., by the Rev. A. T. W. Morison, of Trinity College, Cambridge.

Neander has sometimes been called, but with scarcely sufficient reason, the Niebuhr of ecclesiastical
history. The only point in which he resembles the historian of Rome, is in that vast range
of complete erudition which makes the Past in its minutest details as familiar as the Present,
which is never content with derivative information, but traces back every tributary of the
great stream of History to its remotest accessible source. In this respect the two eminent
historians were alike, but with this point of resemblance the similarity ends. Neander is entirely
free from that necessity under which Niebuhr labored, of regarding every recorded aggregate
of facts as a mass of error which the modern philosophy of history was either to decompose
into a myth, or reconstruct into a new form more consistent with preconceived theory.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Works of JOHN C. CALHOUN will soon, through the wise munificence of the state of South
Carolina, be accessible by the students of political philosophy and history in a complete and
suitable edition, with such memoirs as are necessary for their illustration, and for the satisfaction
of the natural curiosity respecting their illustrious author. The first volume will comprise
Mr. Calhoun's elaborate Disquisition on Government, and a Discourse on the Constitution and
Government of the United States, in which are displayed in a systematic manner the author's
opinions upon the whole subject of the philosophy of government. These treatises were begun
many years ago, and though they had not received the ultimate revision which was intended,
they are very complete, and by the careful and judicious editing of Mr. Crallé, his intimate
friend and confidential secretary, will perhaps appear as perfect in all their parts as if
re-written by Mr. Calhoun himself. These are now nearly stereotyped; and to correct some misapprehensions
which seem to prevail in South Carolina, we state that only the stereotype plates are made
in New-York, there being no foundries for stereotyping in Charleston, where the book will be
printed and published. For this purpose the Legislature has appropriated $10,000, which will
meet the expenses for fifteen thousand copies of the first volume, all but five hundred of
which, printed on large paper, for public libraries, will be sold for the benefit of Mr. Calhoun's
family. Another volume will contain Mr. Calhoun's official papers, and another his Letters
upon Public Affairs. This, we think, will be the most interesting of the series. Mr. Calhoun
wrote always with sincerity and frankness, and his communications to his friends contain, much
more than his speeches and state papers, the exhibitions of his feeling, his regrets, fears,
expectations, and ambitions. His speeches will probably make three volumes; the collection
formerly printed by the Harpers did not embrace half of them; many of them have never been
printed at all, but (particularly some of his most elaborate performances previous to 1817)
exist in carefully prepared manuscript reports. All these speeches will be revised and illustrated
by Mr. Crallé: and the series will be completed with the memoirs of the great senator, for
which that gentleman has the most ample and interesting materials.

       *       *       *       *       *

ARCHBISHOP WHATELEY'S very ingenious Historical Doubts Respecting Napoleon Bonaparte, is the
cleverest book of the kind yet written, not excepting the high church pamphlet treating of
the Archbishop's own existence in the same way. But the idea was not original with Whateley:
Mr. William Biglow of Boston wrote half a century ago, The Age of Freedom, being an Investigation
of Good and Bad Government, in Imitation of Mr. Paine's Age of Reason, and intended, by a similar
style of argument respecting the Discovery of America, &c., to expose that infidel's sophistries.
We perceive that the Life of Jesus, by Dr. Strauss, has been met by another such performance
in England, under the title of Historical Certainties respecting the Early History of America,
developed in a Critical Examination of the Book of the Chronicles of the Land of Ecnarf; By
the Rev. Aristarchus Newlight, Doctor of Philosophy of the University of Giessen, Corresponding
Member of the Theophilanthropic and Pantisocratical Societies of Leipsig, late Professor of
all Religions in several distinguished Academies at Home and Abroad, &c. The author very satisfactorily
disposes of the events between the first French Revolution and the Battle of Waterloo, by putting
them through the "mythic" circle invented by Dr. Strauss. The joke is carried out with remarkable
ingenuity, and with the most whimsical resources of learning. The good doctor finds, a la Strauss,
a nucleus, for here and there a great tradition, but remorselessly wipes out as altogether
incredible many of the most striking and familiar facts in modern history.

       *       *       *       *       *

Of Mr. SCHOOLCRAFT'S great work, which we have heretofore announced, the first part has just
appeared from the press of Lippencott, Grambo & Co., in the most splendid quarto volume that
has yet been printed in America. We shall take an early opportunity to do justice to this truly
national performance and to its author.

       *       *       *       *       *

DR. ROBERT KNOX--whose book of infidel rigmarole, The Races of Men, was lately reprinted by
an American house which was never before and we trust will never again be guilty of such an
indiscretion,--we understand is coming to New-York to lecture upon Ethnology. He has the "gift"
of talking, and is said to have been popular as a demonstrator in anatomy; but we think it
will be best for him to remain a while longer in England; the sham science of which his last
book is a specimen is no longer, we believe, profitable in this country. The last Princeton
Review says of The Races of Men:

     "This book is fairly beneath argument or criticism. It is a
     curious medley of vanity, ignorance, malice, and fanaticism. At
     first it provoked our indignation, by the boldness and
     effrontery of its pretensions; but their very extravagance soon
     began to render them comical. It claims to originate views
     which are to overturn 'long received doctrines, national
     prejudices, stereotyped delusions,' &c., while any tolerable
     scholar in this department is perfectly familiar with them all
     in the works of Virey, Courtet, Bory de St. Vincent, Edwards,
     La Marck, Quetelet, &c. It has not the slightest claim to
     originality, except for the ridiculous ingenuity, with which it
     carries out the more cautious follies of these infidel
     philosophers, into the most glaring absurdities; and sets their
     ingenious physiological speculations, in broad contradiction to
     the most authentic and unquestioned truths of history. We
     certainly should not have noticed this thing at all, but for
     two reasons. In the first place, this subject is now rendered
     so interesting by the important bearings of modern ethnological
     researches, that some of our readers might be cheated by the
     mere title, and by newspaper puffs, out of the market price for
     the book; and in the second place, we wish to express our
     surprise and lift up our remonstrance against such issues from
     a quarter so respectable as that which has given this reprint
     to the American public. Whatever may be the social or
     scientific standing of any influential publishing house, we
     must say, that in our judgment they merit a deliberate rebuke
     from the true science of the country, for reprinting so crude
     and wretched a performance, to say nothing of the low malignity
     which it vents against the Christian sentiment and enterprise
     of an age like the present,--and even against men, who stand in
     the front ranks of science, because they happen to believe that
     the scriptures are entitled to some respect, as authentic
     records; or that other races of men are capable of being
     Christianized, beside the Teutonic. Cuvier was an ignorant and
     stubborn dogmatist, whose era is now past for ever. Buckland
     was an ingenious priest and Jesuit; and even Newton's brain was
     turned by chronology."

       *       *       *       *       *

MR. BOKER'S tragedy of Colaynos, has just been produced at the Walnut-st. Theatre in Philadelphia,
and extremely well received. It had indeed a successful run. The Betrothal, which in our last
we omitted to notice, is, we understand, to be brought out under the auspices of Charles Kean,
in London. Mr. B. has yet another comedy quite finished, which will soon be performed in New-York.

       *       *       *       *       *

A LETTER purporting to be by General WASHINGTON, and bearing date Cambridge, June 24, 1776,
was read before the New-Jersey Historical Society a few weeks ago; the thanks of the Society
were voted to Mr. Chetwood for it; and the Literary World characterizes it as "interesting,"
"admirable," &c. The Literary World does not, we believe, pretend to be an authority in such
matters, but that a "historical society" should receive such a gross imposition is somewhat
surprising. The letter is as much a forgery and imposture as the "exceedingly interesting letter
from General Washington to his wife," published a few months ago in the Day Book. Without going
into any further statement or argument on this subject, it may be sufficient to remark, that
Washington was not within two hundred miles of Cambridge on the 24th of June, 1776.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE REV. HENRY W. DUCACHET, D.D., the learned rector of St. Stephen's, in Philadelphia, has
been several years engaged upon a Dictionary of the Church, which is now nearly ready for publication.
Such a work is properly but a system and history of doctrine and ritual, in a form suited for
the readiest consultation, and it demands, therefore, for its successful accomplishment, the
highest and rarest faculties and acquisitions. Dr. Ducachet possesses in a very eminent degree,
not only the requisite knowledge and judgment, but he has a certain temperament and felicity,
with a love of and skill in dialectics, which promise even to the articles for a dictionary,
from his hand, the utmost raciness and attractive interest. We understand this work will be
very complete and voluminous.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Poems of "Edith May," the finest artist among the literary women of this country, are to
be published in a very beautiful edition next summer by E. H. Butler of Philadelphia.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE AMERICAN PHILOSOPHICAL SOCIETY, which on account of some unfortunate investments of its
capital, has for several years been compelled to suspend its publications, is now, we are gratified
to be informed, again in a good financial condition, and new volumes of its important Transactions
are in the press.

       *       *       *       *       *

PROFESSOR HOWS, during the last month, has given a very interesting series of readings from
Shakspeare, in which he has displayed not only the finest capacity for histrionic effect, but
a critical sagacity, and a thorough knowledge of the greatest of the poets, which justify his
own reputation.

       *       *       *       *       *

MR. REDFIELD has in press "The Celestial Telegraph, or Secrets of the Life to Come, revealed
through Magnetism, by M. Cahagnet," a book of the class of Mrs. Crowe's "Night Side of Nature;"
and "The Volcano Diggings, a Tale of California Law, by a member of the Bar."

       *       *       *       *       *

We believe it is about six years since the Rev. WILLIAM W. LORD, then a resident graduate at
Princeton College, published the volume of poems by which he was introduced to the literary
world. That book had various and striking merits, and though it had many defects in an artistic
point of view, upon the whole it illustrated a just apprehension of the poetic principle, and
such capacities for execution as justified the sanguine hopes it occasioned among his friends
of his future eminence in the highest and finest of the arts. From that time until the present,
Mr. Lord has not appeared as an author; but the leisure that could be withdrawn from professional
study has been devoted to the composition of "Christ in Hades," (Appleton & Co.) a poem displaying
his best abilities in art, while it is a suitable offering to religion.

       *       *       *       *       *

"It was my purpose," he says, "in undertaking this work, to give poetic form, design, and history
to the descent of Christ into hell; a fact that has for so many ages attracted the curiosity
of the human mind, as to furnish occasion for surprise that the attempt has not hitherto been
made. As regards the end for which He descended, I have adhered to the Christian tradition
that it was to free the souls of the ancient saints confined in the temporal paradise of the
Under-world, embracing also in my design the less general opinion, that it was to demonstrate
His universal supremacy by appearing among the damned.

"A source of additional human interest was suggested by the relation which men, as a distinct
order of beings, might be supposed to sustain to demons in the place of their common doom,
and under new conditions of existence; such, I conceived, as would make it possible in some
degree to realize even the divine fictions of the Greek mythology, under the forms and with
the attributes accorded them by ancient religions, and by the poetry of all time. This could
not fail to suggest the further conception of introducing the divinities of our forefathers,
and of other great families of mankind, thus bringing together in action and contrast the deified
men, or various representatives of an heroic humanity, among different races: nor did it seem
too great a stretch of imaginative probability to conceive that their general characteristics
might be adopted and imitated by beings already invested by the human mind with an indefinite
power, and inhabiting a world in which the wonderful becomes the probable.

"But it is, after all, the general purpose of exhibiting the triumph of moral power over all
physical and inferior spiritual force, in the descent of Christ into hell, which gives my design
the complex character of a mythic, heroic, and Christian poem, and, at the same time, constitutes
the unity of its parts. The ancients, whose representative types I introduce, knew and appreciated
but two kinds of power, brute or physical, and spiritual, including all occult and supernatural
efficacy, and strength of intellect and will. Virtue, triumphant by the aid of adventitious
force, or relying upon unconquerable pride and disdain to resist it, was the highest reach
of their dynamic conceptions. Moral power is properly a Christian idea. It is not, therefore,
without what I conceive to be a true as well as a poetic apprehension of the design of the
Descent into Hell, that the heroes of profane, and the not fabulous Titans of sacred antiquity,
by their rivalries and contentions, brought together in arms for a trial of their comparative
strength, are suddenly confronted with a common and dissimilar antagonist, and 'all strength,
all terror, single or in bands, that ever was put forth' opposed to that novel, and, save in
the Temptation, hitherto untested power, represented by Christ, the author of the theory and
master of the example.

"He is not supposed to appear among them 'grasping in his hand ten thousand thunders,' but
endued with an equal power, the result and expression of perfect virtue and rightful authority.
His triumph is attributed neither to natural, nor to supernatural power; but to moral superiority,
evincing itself in His aspect, and exercising its omnipotence upon the soul and conscience.
That in the conception of a great Christian poet, His appearance among the rebel angels in
Heaven was distinguished by the former attributes, is due, perhaps, to the heroic prejudice
of a mind thoroughly imbued with the spirit of pagan writers, and of the Hebrew Scriptures."

The volume opens with this noble invocation, in which there is fit recognition of Dante and
Milton, whose lips aforetime for such song had been touched by the divinest fire:

      Thou of the darkness and the fire, and fame
    Avenged by misery and the Orphic doom,
    Bard of the tyrant-lay! whom dreadless wrongs,
    Impatient, and pale thirst for justice drove,
    A visionary exile, from the earth,
    To seek it in its iron reign--O stern!
    And not accepting sympathy, accept
    A not presumptious offering, that joins
    That region with a greater name: And thou,
    Of my own native language, O dread bard!
    Who, amid heaven's unshadowed light, by thee
    Supremely sung, abidest--shouldst thou know
    Who on earth with thoughts of thee erects
    And purifies his mind, and, but by thee,
    Awed by no fame, boldened by thee, and awed--
    Not with thy breadth of wing, yet with the power
    To breathe the region air--attempts the height
    Where never Scio's singing eagle towered,
    Nor that high-soaring Theban moulted plume,
    Hear thou my song! hear, or be deaf, who may.

      And if not rashly, or too soon, I heed
    The impulse, but have waited on my heart
    With patience, and its utterance stilled with awe
    Oh what inspired it, till I felt it beat
    True cadence to unconquerable strains;
    Oh, then may she first wooed from heaven by prayer
    From thy pure lips, and sympathy austere
    With suffering, and the sight of solemn age,
    And thy gray Homer's head, with darkness bound,
    To me descend, more near, as I am far
    Beneath thee, and more need her aiding wing.

      Oh, not again invoked in vain, descend,
    Urania! and eyes with common light
    More blinded than were his by Heaven's hand
    Imposed to intercept distracting rays,
    Bathe in the vision of transcendent day;
    And of the human senses (the dark veil
    Before the world of spirit drawn) remove
    The dim material hindrance, and illume;
    That human thought again may dare behold
    The shape and port of spirits, and once more
    Hear voices in that distant, shadowy world,
    To which ourselves, and this, are shadows, they
    The substance, immaterial essence pure--
    Souls that have freed their slave, and given back
    Its force unto the elements, the dread
    Manes, or the more dread Archetypes of men:
    Like whom in featured reason's shape--like whom
    Created in the mould of God--they fell,
    And mixed with them in common ruin, made
    One vast and many-realmed world, and shared
    Their deep abodes--their endless exile, some,--
    Some to return to the ethereous light
    When one of human form, a Savior-Man
    Almighty, not in deity alone,
    But mightier than all angels in the might
    And guard of human innocence preserved,
    Should freely enter their dark empire--these
    To loose, o'er those to triumph; this the theme,
    The adventure, and the triumph of my song.

The Fine Arts.

LEUTZE'S WASHINGTON CROSSING THE DELAWARE.--Our readers are aware of the accident by fire which
happened some months since to Leutze's nearly-finished picture of Washington Crossing the Delaware,
in consequence of which he abandoned it to the underwriters, intending to commence the work
anew for the party from which he had received the order to paint it. The underwriters have
accordingly paid the insurance, and are now exhibiting the picture in its incomplete state
to the public of Cologne, where it meets with high approval. The Kölnische Zeitung says of
it: "In this picture the artist has depicted the events of the hour in which the destiny of
the Free States of North America was decided for centuries through the boldness of their courageous
and prudent leader. The means of continuing the war were almost exhausted; the army threatened
in a few days to dissolve itself; the cause of freedom for that continent, with its inestimable
consequences for ancient Europe, would have been postponed, no one can tell how long, perhaps
for ever. Then the great mind of Washington conceived what the morally debased, reposing enemy
thought impossible. He crossed the Delaware with his army in the night, amid masses of floating
ice, and, in the twilight of morning, assailed the inactive camp on the other side. The picture
reproduces the moment when the great general,--ahead of the mass of the army, which had also
just embarked, and part of which are passing off from the shore, and part already struggling
with the driving ice,--is steering to the opposite shore in a small boat, surrounded by eleven
heroic figures, officers, farmers, soldiers, and boatmen. The tall and majestic form of the
man in whose hands at that hour lay the fate of millions, rises from the group, standing slightly
bent, forward, with one foot on the bottom of the boat, the other on the forward bench. His
mild yet serious and commanding glance seems seeking to pierce the mist of the farther shore
and discover the enemy, while intimations of the future grandeur of his country rise upon his
mind. Nothing of youthful rashness appears in the expression of this figure, but the thoughtful
artist has depicted the 'heart for any fate' of the general and statesman in noble, vigorous,
and faithful traits. And what an impulse moves through the group of his companions! Their thought
is, 'Forward, invincibly forward, for our country!' This is expressed in their whole bearing,
in every movement, in the eyes and features of all. Under the influence of this thought they
command the raging elements, so that the masses of ice seem to dissolve before the will and
energy of these men. This is a picture by the sight of which, in this weary and exhausted time,
one can recover health and strength. Let none miss a draught from such a goblet of nectar.
And while we are writing this, it occurs to us that it was at this very hour seventy-four years
ago, in the ice-cold night, Washington crossed the Delaware. And amid the ominous concatenation
of events which the weak mind calls accident, but which the clear spirit, whose eye rests on
the whole world, regards as the movement of nature according to eternal laws, there rises from
our soul the ardent prayer that Germany may soon find her Washington! Honor and fame to the
artist whose production has power to work upon the hearts and inflame the spirits of all that
behold it!"

Messrs. Goupil & Co. have purchased the duplicate of this work, to be completed on the first
of July, for seven thousand dollars. The picture described was unfinished, and has been exhibited
by the underwriters, to whom it was given up after the fire.

       *       *       *       *       *

An Italian picture dealer in London named Campanari, lately bought for a trifle a portrait
which has proved to be a genuine Michel Angelo. It represents the famous Vittoria Colonna,
wife of the Marchese Pescara, the General of Charles V. She was herself distinguished as a
poetess as well as by the impassioned love and adoration of the great painter, who not only
took her portrait, but left behind him several sonnets in her honor. Campanari, though himself
confident of the genuineness of the picture, could not procure it to be recognized in England.
Accordingly he sent it to Rome, where the Academy of San Luca, with Minardi at its head, unanimously
decided in its favor. In fact, it contains a grandeur and sublimity which could be ascribed
to nobody but the author of the prophets and sibyls of the Sistine Chapel. An antique repose
is displayed in the whole work, perfectly agreeing with the character of the lady as described
by Michel Angelo, and which suits the advanced age at which she is painted. The execution is
like that of the picture in the Florentine Tribune, in the wonderful facility of its execution.
In the coloring a carnation hue is remarkable, like that in Michel Angelo's Roman works. The
hands of the figure are thought to be by some other artist. Only the head and part of the person
seem to be by the author. The picture has suffered little from time, some parts having apparently
been repaired by a later pencil. It is valued at $30,000.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MUNICH ART-UNION gives to its subscribers for the next year a galvanograph of Rubens' Columbus.
This is the first time that galvanography has been applied to such a purpose. The plate from
which the print is taken has been copied by the galvanoplastic process, so that it can serve
for other art-unions also. For 1851 the Munich Union has decided on engraving four Greek landscapes
by C. Rottman. These plates will also be copied by the same process, and may be had at much
less than the cost of original plates.

GOETHE'S OPINION OF BYRON, SCOTT, AND CARLYLE.

Mr. John Oxenford, who has shown remarkable capacities for
appropriation, in the use he has made of the labors of William Peter,
Parke Godwin, and others, in his various "translations" from the German,
has recently fallen in with Margaret Fuller d'Ossoli's version of the
Conversations of Goethe with Eckermann, published many years ago by
Mr. Ripley in his "Specimens of Foreign Literature;" and the result is
two volumes, embracing, with what Margaret Fuller translated, the great
poet's conversations with Soret. Among the chief notable men who existed
at the time of the conversations, and to whom reference is made, are
Scott and Byron. The first, whose Fair Maid of Perth is read as a new
book, is praised for his "objective" qualities. The second is pronounced
the greatest modern poet of England, but censured for his polemic
tendency. But as a
     pure individuality, Shakspeare is his superior. This was felt
     by Byron, and on this account he does not say much of
     Shakspeare, although he knows whole passages by heart. He would
     willingly have denied him altogether, for Shakspeare's
     cheerfulness is in his way, and he feels that he is no match
     for it. Pope he does not deny, for he had no cause to fear him.
     On the contrary, he mentions him, and shows him respect when he
     can, for he knows well enough that Pope is a mere foil to
     himself.'...

     "Goethe seemed inexhaustible on the subject of Byron, and I
     felt that I could not listen enough. After a few digressions,
     he proceeded thus: 'His high rank as an English peer was very
     injurious to Byron; for every talent is oppressed by the outer
     world,--how much more, then, when there are such high birth and
     so great a fortune. A certain middle rank is much more
     favorable to talent, on which account we find all great artists
     and poets in the middle classes. Byron's predilection for the
     unbounded could not have been nearly so dangerous with more
     humble birth and smaller means. But as it was, he was able to
     put every fancy into practice, and this involved him in
     innumerable scrapes. Besides, how could one of such high rank
     be inspired with awe and respect by any rank whatever? He spoke
     out whatever he felt, and this brought him into ceaseless
     conflict with the world. It is surprising to remark,' continued
     Goethe, 'how large a portion of the life of a rich Englishman
     of rank is passed in duels and elopements. Lord Byron himself
     says, that his father carried off three ladies. And let any man
     be a steady son after that. Properly speaking, he lived
     perpetually in a state of nature, and with his mode of
     existence the necessity for self-defence floated daily before
     his eyes. Hence his constant pistol-shooting. Every moment he
     expected to be called out. He could not live alone. Hence, with
     all his oddities, he was very indulgent to his associates. He
     one evening read his fine poem on the Death of Sir John Moore,
     and his noble friends did not know what to make of it. This did
     not move him, but he put it away again. As a poet, he really
     showed himself a lamb. Another would have commended them to the
     devil.'"

Yet Goethe had a curious theory in respect to criticism, and believed it possible for a foreigner
to understand the achievements of a language not his own better than those to whom it is native--in
which we think he was partially correct. In the following he criticises CARLYLE.

     "'Sit down,' said he, 'and let us talk awhile. A new
     translation of Sophocles has just arrived. It reads well, and
     seems to be excellent; I will compare it with Solgar. Now, what
     say you to Carlyle?' I told him what I had been reading upon
     Fonqué. 'Is not that very good?' said Goethe. 'Aye, there are
     clever people over the sea, who know us and can appreciate
     us?... We are weakest in the æsthetic department, and may wait
     long before we meet such a man as Carlyle. It is pleasant to
     see that intercourse is now so close between the French,
     English, and Germans, that we shall be able to correct one
     another. This is the greatest use of a world-literature, which
     will show itself more and more. Carlyle has written a life of
     Schiller, and judged him as it would be difficult for a German
     to judge him. On the other hand, we are clear about Shakspeare
     and Byron, and can, perhaps, appreciate their merits better
     than the English themselves."

Carlyle is frequently referred to, and always thus. The clear-sighted, great old man, already
perceives how much his fame will owe to such an apostle and preacher of his faith--for he sees
also what Carlyle himself will become. The mention of Lockhart is also very interesting.

     "I asked about Lockhart, and whether he still recollected him.
     'Perfectly well!' returned Goethe. 'His personal appearance
     makes so decided an impression that one cannot easily forget
     him. From all I hear from Englishmen, and from my
     daughter-in-law, he must be a young man from whom great things
     in literature are to be expected. I almost wonder that Walter
     Scott does not say a word about Carlyle, who has so decided a
     German tendency that he must certainly be known to him. It is
     admirable in Carlyle that, in his judgment of our German
     authors, he has especially in view the mental and moral core
     as that which is really influential. Carlyle is a moral force
     of great importance. There is in him much for the future, and
     we cannot foresee what he will produce and effect.'"

Again:

     "'It is pleasant to see,' said Goethe, 'how the earlier
     pedantry of the Scotch has changed into earnestness and
     profundity. When I recollect how the 'Edinburgh Reviewers'
     treated my works not many years since, and when I now consider
     Carlyle's merits with respect to German literature, I am
     astonished at the important step for the better. In Carlyle,'
     said he, 'I venerate most of all the mind and the character
     which lie at the foundation of his tendencies. The chief point
     with him is the culture of his own nation; and, in the literary
     productions of other countries, which he wishes to make known
     to his contemporaries, he pays less attention to the arts of
     talent, than to the moral elevation which can be attained
     through such works. Yes,' said Goethe, 'the temper in which he
     works is always admirable. What an earnest man he is! and how
     he has studied us Germans! He is always more at home in our
     literature than ourselves. At any rate we cannot vie with him
     in our researches in English literature.'"

MR. KELLOGG'S EXPLORATION OF MT. SINAI.

The last volume of Bohn's Illustrated Library (published in New-York by Bangs & Brother), is
"Scripture Lands, Described in a Series of Historical, Geographical, and Topographical Sketches,"
by JOHN KITTO, D.D., F.S.A., the well-known author of the Dictionary of the Bible, &c. It embraces,
in a convenient and condensed form, results of the most important recent investigations by
travellers and scholars in the countries sacred for their connection with the history of true
religion. With other things by Americans, Dr. Kitto gives a prominent place to Mr. MINER K.
KELLOGG'S account of Mt. Sinai, which we reprint below; and we cannot let the opportunity pass
unimproved, of expressing a hope that Mr. Kellogg will prepare for the press the voluminous
notes which we know him to possess of his various and interesting travels in the ancient world,
which he saw with the eye of an artist, the head of a scholar, and the heart of a Christian.
If he would, he might give us a most delightful and instructive book upon the East, and one
that would be eminently popular, though Asia has been of all the continents the most frequently
described. Dr. Kitto says:

"At the foot of the pass which leads up to the sacred shrine beneath the awful mount, from
whose summit Jehovah proclaimed his law to the trembling hosts of Israel, Dr. Robinson says,--'We
commenced the slow and toilsome ascent along the narrow defile, about south by east, between
blackened, shattered cliffs of granite, some eight hundred feet high, and not more than two
hundred and fifty yards apart, which every moment threatened to send down their ruins on our
heads. Nor is this at all times an empty threat; for the whole pass is filled with large stones
and rocks, the débris of these cliffs. The bottom is a deep and narrow water-course, where
the wintry torrent sweeps down with fearful violence. A path has been made for camels, along
the shelving rocks, partly by removing the topmost blocks, sometimes in the manner of a Swiss
mountain-road. But though I had crossed the most rugged passes of the Alps, and made from Chamouni
the whole circuit of Mont Blanc, I had never found a path so rude and difficult as that we
were now ascending.'

"After toiling along for nearly two hours, our travellers continue their narrative:

"'Here the interior and lofty peaks of the great circle of Sinai began to open upon us--black,
rugged, desolate summits; and, as we advanced, the dark and frowning front of Sinai itself
(the present Horeb of the monks) began to appear. We were gradually ascending, and the valley
gradually opening; but as yet all was a naked desert. Afterwards, a few shrubs were sprinkled
round about, and a small encampment of black tents was seen on our right, with camels and goats
browsing, and a few donkeys belonging to the convent. The scenery through which we had now
passed reminded me strongly of the mountains around the Mer de Glace in Switzerland. I had
never seen a spot more wild and desolate.

"'As we advanced, the valley still opened wider and wider with a gentle ascent, and became
full of shrubs and tufts of herbs, shut in on each side by lofty granite ridges, and rugged,
shattered peaks, a thousand feet high, while the face of Horeb rose directly before us. Both
my companion and myself involuntarily exclaimed, "here is room enough for a large encampment!"

"'Reaching the top of the ascent or watershed, a fine broad plain lay before us, sloping down
gently towards the south-south-east, inclosed by rugged and venerable mountains of dark granite,
stern, naked, splintered peaks, and ridges of indescribable grandeur; and terminated, at a
distance of more than a mile, by the bold and awful front of Horeb, rising perpendicularly
in frowning majesty, from twelve to fifteen hundred feet in height. It was a scene of solemn
grandeur, wholly unexpected, and such as we had never seen; and the associations which at the
moment rushed upon our minds were almost overwhelming.'

"They subsequently ascended the frowning summit of Horeb, and sketched the scene from that
point:--'The whole plain, er-Rahah, lay spread out beneath our feet, with the adjacent wadys
and mountains; while Wady esh-Sheikh on the right, and the recess on the left, both connected
with and opening broadly from er-Rahah, presented an area which serves nearly to double that
of the plain.

"'Our conviction was strengthened that here, or on some of the adjacent cliffs, was the spot
where the Lord "descended in fire," and proclaimed the law. Here lay the plain where the whole
congregation might be assembled; here was the mount that could be approached, if not forbidden;
and here the mountain brow, where alone the lightning and the thick cloud would be visible,
and the thunders and the voice of the trump be heard, when the Lord "came down in the sight
of all the people upon Mount Sinai."

"'We gave ourselves up to the impressions of the awful scene; and read, with a feeling that
will never be forgotten, the sublime account of the transactions, and the commandments there
promulgated, in the original words as recorded by the great Hebrew legislator.'"

"Other travellers have explored a valley on the southern base of Sinai, which was shut out
from the view of Dr. Robinson in his ascent by a long ridge of rocks, and which has been found,
by measurement of Krafft and Strauss, and others, to be even greater than the valley of er-Rahah
on the north. This, it is supposed by Ritter and others, may have been occupied by the Israelites
at the giving of the Law. The locality of this tremendous scene may perhaps be determined by
future researches.

"An American artist and scholar, Mr. M. K. Kellogg, has lately given an interesting account
of this valley, which appears to be much more extensive than er-Rahah, and better suited for
the accommodation of the immense camp of Israel. To reach this station, the Israelites must
have continued their march much further down the coast than on the other supposition, and turned
at a bolder angle up into the mountains near the modern town of Tur or Tor. Dophkah, Alush,
and Rephidim, must also, on this supposition, be transferred to other localities corresponding
with this supposed line of march.

"If there be such a valley at the southern base of Sinai, it seems very extraordinary that
it should have escaped the notice of travellers. It must be visible from the summit of Sinai
(Jebel Musa); but, seen only from that lofty summit, and running in an irregular line at the
very base of the mountain, they must have overlooked it in their brief survey of the scenery,
so grand, so gloomy and peculiar, which there engaged their contemplation. The subject, however,
is so curious and interesting, that we insert in some detail the narrative of the American
traveller to which these remarks refer.

"'Having read a letter which appeared in the Literary World[F] of the 20th November, from Dr.
Ritter to Dr. Robinson, in which it is said that Laborde, in his Commentary "has now for the
first time established the plain of Wady Sebaiyeh at the southern base of Sinai;" and that
this "furnishes an important point for the elucidation of the giving of the Law," I have been
induced to submit to the consideration of the public, some of the notes from a journal which
I kept during my travels in that region in the spring of 1844.[G]

"'Although I have not yet seen the Commentaries of Laborde, and therefore cannot judge of their
correctness in regard to this plain, yet I am happy in being able to furnish some testimony
as to its existence and extent. Within the last few years a question has arisen as to the existence
of a plain in front of Mount Sinai, capable of containing the multitude of Israelites who were
to receive the commandments.

"'Dr. Robinson is the first, I believe, who has attempted to prove that no such plain exists.
In his Researches he finds a plain at the north-east extremity of the mountain called er-Rahah,
which he says was "the plain where the congregation of Israel were assembled," and that the
mountain impending over it, the present Horeb, was "the scene of the awful phenomena in which
the Law was proclaimed."

"'He says he was satisfied, after much inquiry, "that in no other quarter of the peninsula,
and certainly not around any of the higher peaks, is there a spot corresponding in any degree,
so fully as this, to the historical account, and to the circumstances of the case." Starting
upon the hypothesis that there is no other plain than the one he describes, he has been obliged
to give the name of Sinai to one of the peaks which overlook this plain, in order that the
Israelites might witness the awful ceremonies attending the promulgation of the Law which took
place upon the holy mountain. If this hypothesis is founded on truth, then tradition is at
fault, which has given to another part of this region the name of Sinai, and a capacious plain
beneath it; we must throw aside all our faith in such tradition, and commence investigations
which shall elicit the whole truth upon the subject.

"'As many late travellers have been led into error respecting the topography of this district,
by adopting, without investigation, the conclusions of Dr. Robinson, I feel it to be a duty
to lay before you such facts as may be of service to those who shall hereafter journey into
the wilderness of Sinai.

"'On the 6th day of March, 1844, my two companions set out from the convent at Mount Sinai,
for the purpose of ascending the mountain St. Catharine. I declined going with them, partly
through indisposition, and partly because I thought I could spend the day more usefully in
making sketches in the neighboring convent. After my friend's departure with the guides, I
took a little Arab boy with me to carry my sketch-book and water-bottle, and walked up Wady
Shueib, until I came to the little Mountain of the Cross (Neja), which almost shuts up the
passage into Wady Sebaiyeh, and where I had, for the first time, a view of the southern face
of Mount Sinai. Here opened an extended picture of the mountains lying to the south of the
Sinaite range, for I was now some three hundred feet above the adjacent valleys.

"'After much difficulty, I succeeded in climbing over immense masses of granite, to the side
of the Mountain of the Cross, which I ascended about five hundred feet on its south-western
face, in order to obtain a good view of the peak of Sinai, which I was anxious to sketch. Here,
close at my right, arose, almost perpendicularly, the Holy Mountain; its shattered pyramidal
peak towering above me some 1400 feet, of a brownish tint, presenting vertical strata of granite,
which threw off the glittering rays of the morning sun. Clinging around its base was a range
of sharp, upheaving crags, from one hundred to two hundred feet in height, which formed an
almost impassable barrier to the mountain itself from the valley adjoining. These crags were
separated from the mountain by a deep and narrow gorge, yet they must be considered as forming
the projecting base of Sinai.

"'Directly in front of me was a level valley, stretching onward to the south for two or three
miles, and inclosed on the east, west, and south by low mountains of various altitudes, all
much less, however, than that of Sinai. This valley passed behind the Mountain of the Cross
to my left, and out of view, so that I could not calculate its northern extent from where I
stood. The whole scene was one of inexpressible grandeur and solemnity, and I seated myself
to transfer some of its remarkable features to the pages of my portfolio.

"'I remained at work until nearly sunset, when I discovered people coming towards me through
the dark ravine between the mountain of Sinai and the craggy spurs which shoot up around its
base. I feared they might prove to be unfriendly Arabs; but, as they came nearer I discovered
them to be my companions and their guides, who were returning from Mount St. Catharine. As
the shades of evening were approaching, I shut up my portfolio, and descending the hillside,
I joined my friends, and we returned together to the convent. After dinner, they desired to
see what I had done during the day, and my sketch-book was opened to them. They remarked, on
seeing the drawing I had made, that as there was no plain on the southern border of the mountain,
I might as well have left out the one seen in the drawing. After my assurance that I had copied
what was before me, they laughed, and remarked that none but a painter's imagination could
have seen the plain in question, for they had passed entirely around the mountain that day,
and could assert positively that there was no such plain. Here was a difference of opinion
certainly, and one that I did not relish much, as it might at some future time be the means
of creating a doubt as to the faithfulness of my eastern drawings. I begged them, therefore,
to accompany me the next day to that side of the mountain, and be convinced of what I told
them. They remarked that all authority was against me, and time was too precious to go over
the same ground twice.'"

"It seems that one of them, however, accompanied the writer in his further exploration of the
ensuing day, for he uses the plural number, and speaks of his 'friend.' We thus condense his
statements: One day (7th March) is described as having been spent in Wady es-Sabaiyeh, or the
plain before Mount Sinai. After having penetrated into this wady, he says: 'We took our course
along the base of Jebel Deir, until we came to a point whence the peak of Sinai was no longer
visible, because of the intervening point of Jebel Deir; then striking across Sebaiyeh to the
right, keeping Sinai in view, we stopped to contemplate the scene. Here the plain is very wide,
and forms one with Wady Sedout, which enters it from the south-east at a very acute angle,
and in the whole of which Sinai is plainly visible. These two wadys make a width of at least
the third of a mile. The hills rising from the east and south of Sebaiyeh, in front of Sinai,
are of gentle ascent, upon which flocks might feed, and the people stand in full view of Sinai.
For many miles, perhaps six or more, on the eastern border of this plain, are seen many small
plains high up among the hills, from all of which Sinai is plainly visible. Near where we stood,
a high, rocky platform of granite arose from the plain, upon which I seated myself, and took
a sketch of the valley to its junction with Wady esh-Sheikh on the north, where stands Jebel
Fureia, a very conspicuous and singular mountain. At this point, Wady Sheikh turns from its
eastern course, after leaving Wady Rahah, and runs north around Jebel Fureia, where it receives
Sebaiyeh from the south, and with it forms one unbroken plain for about twelve miles to the
north of the place where I was seated. Turning back now to the south, we traversed the plain
towards the base of Sinai. The wady grew gently narrower as we approached Neja, whose base
projected far into the plain, and whose head shuts off the view of Sinai for a distance of
about one-half the width of the plain at its base.

"'As we passed its foot, Sinai again appeared, and we measured the plain near the pathway which
leads up towards Sinai on the southern border of Neja, and which appears to be the only entrance
to the Holy Mountain. The measured width here was four hundred and thirty feet. Passing on
three hundred and forty-five paces, we arrived at the narrowest part of the plain, some few
yards narrower than where we had measured it. This may be considered as an entrance-door to
the plain, which lies directly in front of Sinai, which now spreads out level, clear, and broad,
going on to the south with varied widths for about three miles on gently ascending ground,
where it passes between two sloping hills and enters another wady which descends beyond, from
which it is most probable Sinai may yet be clearly seen.

"'On the east, this plain of Sebaiyeh is bounded by mountains having long, sloping bases, and
covered with wild thyme and other herbs, affording a good tenting-ground immediately fronting
Sinai, which forms, as it were, a grand pyramidal pulpit to the magnificent amphitheatre below.
The width of the plain immediately in front of Sinai is about 1600 feet, but further south
the width is much increased, so that on an average the plain may be considered as being nearly
one-third of a mile wide, and its length, in view of Mount Sinai, between five and six miles.
The good tenting-ground on the mountain sides mentioned above, would give much more space for
the multitude on the great occasion for which they were assembled. This estimate does not include
that part of the plain to the north, and Wady esh-Sheikh, from which the peak of Sinai is not
visible; for this space would contain three or four times the number of people which Sebaiyeh
would hold.

"'From Wady Sebaiyeh we crossed over the granite spurs, in order to pass around the southern
border of Sinai into Wady Lejah. These spurs are of sufficient size to have separate names
among the Arabs. Around them were generally deep and rugged gorges and ravines, or water-courses,
whose sides were formed of ledges of granite nearly perpendicular, of a pink color, and fine
texture. There are no gravel hills, as mentioned by Dr. Robinson, but a series of low granite
hills, much broken up, and of different colors, principally of a greenish-gray and brown. The
plain is covered with a fine débris of granite. Whilst crossing over these low hills, my friend
pointed out the path between them and Sinai, in the ravine, through which he had passed yesterday
on his return from St. Catharine; and it was seen that no plain would be visible from any part
of it, owing to the height of the spurs which separated the ravine from Sebaiyeh, and we concluded
that most travellers had been led into false views concerning this part of the mountain from
having taken the same path, and hence it was that no account has been given respecting the
plain of Sebaiyeh. This ravine around Sinai becomes a deep impassable gorge, with perpendicular
walls, as it enters Wady Lejah, passing through the high neck connecting with the mountain
on the south.

"'Descending into Lejah, under the rocky precipice of Sinai, we found the wady narrow and choked
up with huge blocks of granite which had tumbled from the sides of the adjacent mountains.
We could now see the olive-ground of the deserted convent of el-Arbain, situated in the bottom
of the narrow valley. Passing through this garden, we found a fine running stream of crystal
water, of which we partook freely, for our thirst was great. The garden was walled, and well
irrigated by many small canals, but nothing seemed to flourish but the olive.

"'Continuing down the valley, amidst loose rocks of granite, upon some of which were inscriptions
in the Sinaite, Greek, and Arabic characters, and enjoying the wildness of the scene, and the
gloomy grandeur of the lofty mountains of naked rocks which almost overhung our path, we saw
Horeb on our right, and soon entered upon the plain before it called Wady Rahah. After taking
a view of Horeb as the sun was setting, we made our way to the convent, to pass the night within
its hospitable walls. Thus was completed a walk around the whole mountain of Sinai.

"'The results of these investigations, together with the information afforded by Burckhardt
and other travellers, have served to convince my own mind that this district is every way adapted
to the circumstances attending the encampment of the Israelites during the promulgation of
the law upon Mount Sinai Though other mountains in this vicinity may answer as well as that
of Jebel Musa for this great purpose, still I cannot see any good reason for taking from this
mountain that holy character with which tradition has invested it for the last fifteen centuries.'

"Thus," says Dr. Kitto, "it seems that the question as to the camping-ground of the Israelites,
which seemed to have been settled by the researches of Dr. Robinson and others, must now be
regarded as re-opened for further investigations. The fact is, that a complete and careful
survey of the whole of this central mountain region yet remains to be taken."

The friend of Mr. Kellogg alluded to in the preceding pages was an English gentleman, Mr. Ackanth,
(of the East India Service,) whose notes will amply vindicate Mr. Kellogg's conclusions.

FOOTNOTES:

[F] The Literary World at that period was edited by the able, candid, and universally beloved
C.F. Hoffman.--(Ed. Int.)

[G] "The writer seems not to have been aware that this still leaves the priority to Laborde--whose
journey was undertaken even earlier than that of Robinson, and whose really valuable work,
Commentaire Geographique sur l'Exode et les Nombres, which now lies before us, was published
in the very year of Mr. Kellogg's journey, 1844. This work certainly forms the best literary
result of Laborde's celebrated journey."

LAFAYETTE, TALLEYRAND, METTERNICH, AND NAPOLEON.

Sketched By Lord Holland.[H]

Lord Holland, says the Examiner, has been induced by "the recent events on the Continent" to
publish what his father had written on foreign politics. "If not wholly impartial," the present
Lord Holland remarks of his father, "he is acknowledged by all who knew him to have been as
candid as he was benevolent." He might have said more than this--indeed far more than it might
have been quite becoming in a son to say. The late Lord Holland was a noble example of the
highest and best traits of the English character. Throughout his public life he was the champion
of all just causes; the friend of all who fairly sought redress; the fearless advocate of liberty,
religious and civil, in days disastrous to both; a statesman of singular courage and consistency,
a most accomplished gentleman and scholar. He had learning without pedantry, and wit without
ill-nature. His sweetness of temper and fascinating grace of manner had been commemorated by
many distinguished men who had felt their winning potency and charm. But above all he had a
store of observation and anecdote of the richest kind, and a power of applying it with surprising
felicity to whatever subject might be under discussion. This book is a delightful surviving
proof of that quality in his character. Its anecdotes are told with a charming ease and fulness
of knowledge. No one so quickly as Lord Holland detected the notable points, whether of a book
or a man, or turned them to such happy account. We do not read a page of this volume without
feeling that a supreme master of that exquisite art is speaking to us. It comprises recollections
of the scenes and actors in the stirring drama which was played out on the Continent between
1791 and 1815. It opens with the death of Mirabeau and closes with the death of Napoleon. France,
Denmark, Prussia, and Spain are the countries principally treated of. Lord Holland's first
visit to France was in 1791, just after the death of Mirabeau and the disastrous flight to
Varennes. LAFAYETTE seems to have been more disposed than any other public actor in the revolution
to put faith in the king even after that incident, and his confidence won over the young English
traveller. But the weakness as well as strength of Lafayette is well hit off.

"Lafayette was, however, then as always, a pure disinterested man, full of private affection
and public virtue, and not devoid of such talents as firmness of purpose, sense of honor, and
earnestness of zeal will, on great occasions, supply. He was indeed accessible to flattery,
somewhat too credulous, and apt to mistake the forms, or, if I may so phrase it, the pedantry
of liberty for the substance, as if men could not enjoy any freedom without subscribing to
certain abstract principles and arbitrary tests, or as if the profession and subscription,
nay, the technical observance of such tests and principles, were not, on the other hand, often
compatible with practical oppression and tyranny."

MARIE ANTOINETTE is treated almost as badly as by Mr. Geffeson, who thought her a devil, far
less tenderly than we should have expected. Her "amours" are spoken of, though with the limitation
that "they were not numerous, scandalous, or degrading." We gather that Talleyrand believed
her to have been guilty in a special instance named, and that Madame Champan had confessed
it to him. At the same time her person is not very flatteringly described.

"As I was not presented at Court, I never saw the Queen but at the play-house. She was then
in affliction, and her countenance was, no doubt, disfigured by long suffering and resentment.
I should not, however, suppose that the habitual expression of it, even in happier seasons,
had ever been very agreeable. Her beauty, however extolled, consisted, I suspect, exclusively
in a fair skin, a straight person, and a stately air, which her admirers termed dignity, and
her enemies pride and disdain. Her total want of judgment and temper no doubt contributed to
the disasters of the Royal Family, but there was no member of it to whom the public was uniformly
so harsh and unjust, and her trial and death were among the most revolting parts of the whole
catastrophe. She was indeed insensible when led to the scaffold; but the previous persecution
which she underwent was base, unmanly, cruel, and ungenerous to the last degree."

On the other hand, a better case is made out for Egalité than any writer has yet been bold
enough, or informed enough, to attempt. His false position with the Court is shown not to have
been of his own seeking, and to have ultimately driven him reluctantly into the ranks of the
extreme party. His courage is vindicated successfully, his sincerity and truthfulness less
so. Lord Holland retained his regard for the Orleans family to the close of his life. He was
one of the warmest defenders of the late King of the French. There are some capital notices
of TALLYRAND.

"It was in this visit to Paris in 1791, that I first formed acquaintance with M. Talleyrand.
I have seen him in most of his vicissitudes of fortune; from his conversation I have derived
much of the little knowledge I possess of the leading characters in France before and during
the Revolution. He was then still a bishop. He had, I believe, been originally forced into
holy orders, in consequence of his lameness, by his family, who, on that account, treated him
with an indifference and unkindness shameful and shocking. He was for some time aumonier to
his uncle, the Archbishop of Rheims; and when Mr. Pitt went to that town to learn French, after
the peace of 1782, he lodged him in an apartment in the abbey of St. Thierry, where he was
then residing with his uncle, and constantly accompanied him for six weeks, a circumstance
to which, as I have heard M. Talleyrand remark with some asperity, Mr. Pitt never had the grace
to allude either during his embassy, or his emigration, or in 1794, when he refused to recall
the cruel order by which he was sent away from England under the alien bill. Talleyrand was
initiated into public affairs under M. de Calonne, and learnt from that lively minister the
happy facility of transacting business without effort and without ceremony in the corner of
a drawing-room, or in the recess of a window."

Again--of Talleyrand's bon-mots. The bit at Chateaubriand is one of the happiest we can remember.

"'Il faut avoir aimé Mme. de Staël pour connaitre tout le bonheur d'aimer une bête,' was a
saying of his much quoted at Paris at that time, in explanation of his passion for Mme. Grand,
who certainly did not win him or any one else by the fascination of her wit or conversation.
For thirty or forty years, the bon-mots of M. de Talleyrand were more frequently repeated and
more generally admired than those of any living man. The reason was obvious. Few men uttered
so many, and yet fewer any equally good. By a happy combination of neatness in language and
ease and suavity of manner, with archness and sagacity of thought, his sarcasms assumed a garb
at once so courtly and so careless, that they often diverted almost as much as they could mortify
even their immediate objects. His humorous reproof to a gentleman vaunting with self-complacency
the extreme beauty of his mother, and apparently implying that it might account for advantages
in person in her descendants, is well known: 'Cétait donc,' said he, 'Monsieur votre père qui
n'était pas si bien.' The following is more recent, but the humor of it hardly less arch or
less refined. The celebrity of M. de Chateaubriand, the vainest of mortals, was on the wane.
About the same time, it happened to be casually mentioned in conversation that Chateaubriand
was affected with deafness, and complained bitterly of that infirmity. 'Je compends,' said
Talleyrand; 'dequis qu'on a cessé de parler de lui, il se croit sourd.'"

We find a long portrait gallery of ministers, and princes, and princesses, one more imbecile,
ignorant, and corrupt than another. One minister did not know the difference between Russia
and Prussia; another always wrote Asiatic for Henseatic, and thought his correction necessary.
Much light is thrown on the first quarrel between Ferdinand and his father; and the narrow
escape of the Duke of Infantado is well told. Godoy, like all who had the honor of Lord Holland's
acquaintance, was in some degree a favorite of his, his good qualities being brought out to
neutralize his many bad ones. Jovellanos and Arguelles appear the only honest characters in
the midst of such a mass of vice, and even they were pedantic, impracticable, and prejudiced.
No history, narrative, or memoir can be so disgusting as those of Spain and its court under
the dominion of the House of Bourbon. The imagination of no novelist has ever attained that
acmè of duplicity, cruelty, villany, and cowardice, which made up the character of Ferdinand.
The general opinion of PRINCE METTERNICH, since he has become familiar to London circles, has
been rather to diminish former opinion of his superior wisdom. Lord Holland's early opinion
of the prince is thus recorded:

"He seems hardly qualified by any superior genius to assume the ascendency in the councils
of his own and neighboring nations, which common rumor has for some years attributed to him.
He appeared to me, in the short intercourse I had with him, little superior to the common run
of continental politicians and courtiers, and clearly inferior to the Emperor of Russia in
those qualities which secure an influence in great affairs. Some who admit the degrading but
too prevalent opinion that a disregard to truth is useful and necessary in the government of
mankind, have on that score maintained the contrary proposition. His manners are reckoned insinuating.
In my slight acquaintance with him in London I was not struck with them; they seemed such as
might have been expected from a German who had studied French vivacity in the fashionable novels
of the day. I saw little of a sagacious and observant statesman, or of a courtier accustomed
to very refined and enlightened society."

But the statesman who sustained Austria and procured for it the alliance of France was not
Metternich. Napoleon is known to have long wavered as to whether he would build his European
system on a close alliance with Prussia or with Austria. Bignon we believe it is that gives
the reasons in the imperial mind for and against. Prussia was the preferable ally, being a
new country, untrammelled by aristocratic ideas, ambitious, military, and eager for domination.
But Napoleon had humiliated Prussia too deeply to be forgiven. And then Napoleon had in those
around him politicians who revered Austria for its antiquity and prestige, and who, like Lord
Aberdeen, made the Cæsar of Vienna the pivot on which their ideas of policy turned. Talleyrand
was one of them. He worshipped Austria, opposed all his master's plans for crushing her, and
even dared to thwart those plans by revealing them to Alexander, and prompting him secretly
to oppose them. Such treachery fully warrants all the suspicion and harshness with which Napoleon
treated Talleyrand. The latter's conduct is fully revealed in this volume by Lord Holland.
In fact, the way in which Napoleon found his policy most seriously counteracted, and his projects
foiled, was his weakness in employing the men of the ancien regime, the nobles, whom he preferred
for their pleasing and good manners, but who invariably betrayed the parvenu master, who employed
and courted them. By an instance of this grievously misplaced confidence Napoleon lost his
throne. In the last events and negotiations of 1814 Napoleon employed Caulaincourt, who, had
he had full power, might have made an arrangement. Talleyrand and his party at the same time
employed M. de Vitrolles, and sent him to the Emperor of Austria to learn on what terms he
would be induced either to support Napoleon or abandon him. The Emperor of Austria was naturally
most unwilling to proceed to the latter extreme. But M. Vitrolles, a secret agent of the Bourbons,
so falsified and misrepresented everything to the Emperor that the sacrifice of Napoleon was
assented to.

Our last extract relates some traits of the great NAPOLEON which seem more than ordinarily
worth his nephew's attention just now. They are taken from a somewhat elaborate character of
the Emperor which occupies nearly a third of the volume.

Lord Holland dwells at some length on the treatment to which Napoleon was subjected by the
English Government, and on the generous attempts of Lady Holland to alleviate his captivity.
This part of the volume has much present interest, and will be read with great eagerness by
all. Of the Emperor's temper, he says:

"Napoleon, even in the plenitude of his power, seldom gratified his revenge by resorting to
any act either illegal or unjust, though he frequently indulged his ill-humor by speaking both
of and to those who had displeased him in a manner mortifying to their feelings and their pride.
The instances of his love of vengeance are very few: they are generally of an insolent rather
than a sanguinary character, more discreditable to his head than his heart, and a proof of
his want of manners, taste, and possibly feeling, but not of a dye to affect his humanity.
Of what man, possessed of such extended yet such disputed authority, can so much be said? Of
Washington? Of Cromwell? But Washington, if he had ever equal provocation and motives for revenge,
certainly never possessed such power to gratify it. His glory, greater in truth than that of
Cæsar, Cromwell, and Bonaparte, was that he never aspired: but he disdained such power; he
never had it, and cannot therefore deserve immoderate praise for not exerting what he did not
possess. In the affair of General Lee, he did not, if I recollect, show much inclination to
forgive. Even Cromwell did not possess the power of revenge to the same extent as Napoleon.
There is reason, however, to infer from his moderation and forbearance that he would have used
it as sparingly. But Cromwell is less irreproachable, on the score of another vice, viz., ingratitude.
Napoleon not only never forgot a favor, but, unlike most ambitious characters, never allowed
subsequent injuries to cancel his recollection of services. He was uniformly indulgent to the
faults of those whom he had once distinguished. He saw them, he sometimes exposed and rectified,
but he never punished or revenged them. Many have blamed him for this on the score of policy;
but if it was not sense and calculation, it should be ascribed to good-nature. None, I presume,
will impute it to weakness or want of discernment."

This account of Napoleon's ideas on religion is curious, and we think new. Longman and Co.,
London. New-York: Harpers.

JOHN JAMES AUDUBON.

By Rufus W. Griswold.

"Formerly," said Baron Cuvier, in a report to the Royal Academy of Sciences in Paris, "European
naturalists had to make known her own treasures to America; but now her Mitchells, Harlans,
and Charles Bonapartes, have repaid with interest the debt which she owed to Europe. The history
of the American birds by Wilson, already equals in elegance our most beautiful works in ornithology,
and if ever that of Audubon be completed, it will have to be confessed that in magnificence
of execution the Old World is surpassed by the New." The work of the "American backwoodsman"
thus alluded to, has long been completed; the great Cuvier subsequently acknowledged it to
be "the most splendid monument which art has erected in honor of ornithology;" and the judgment
of mankind has placed the name of our countryman first in the list of authors and artists who
have illustrated the beautiful branch of natural history to which he has devoted so large a
portion of his long and heroic life.

JOHN JAMES AUDUBON was born in Louisiana about the year 1782. He was of French descent, and
his parents perceiving early the bent of his genius sent him to Paris to pursue his education.
While there he attended schools of natural history and the arts, and in drawing took lessons
from the celebrated David. He returned in his eighteenth year, and his father soon after gave
him a farm near Philadelphia, where the Perkioming creek falls into the Schuylkill. Its fine
woods offered him numerous subjects for his pencil, and he here commenced that series of drawings
which ultimately swelled into the magnificent collection of The Birds of America. Here too
he was married, and here was born his eldest son. He engaged in commercial speculations, but
was not successful. His love for the fields and flowers, the forests and their winged inhabitants,
we readily suppose unfitted him for trade. At the end of ten years he removed to the west.
There were then no steamboats on the Ohio, and few villages and no cities on its shores. Reaching
that noble river in the warm days of autumn, he purchased a small boat in which, with his wife
and child and two rowers, he leisurely pursued his way down to Henderson, in Kentucky, where
his family resided several years. He appears at first to have engaged in commerce, for he mentions
his meeting with Wilson, of whom till then he had never heard, as having occurred in his counting-room
in Louisville in the spring of 1810. His great predecessor was procuring subscriptions for
his work. He called on Audubon, explained the nature of his occupations, and requested his
patronage. The merchant was surprised and gratified at the sight of his volumes, and had taken
a pen to add his name to the list of subscribers, when his partner abruptly said to him in
French, "My dear Audubon, what induces you to do so? your own drawings are certainly far better,
and you must know as much of the habits of American birds as this gentleman. "Wilson probably
understood the remark, for he appeared not to be pleased, and inquired whether Audubon had
any drawings of birds. A large portfolio was placed upon the table, and all its contents exhibited
by the amateur ornithologist. Wilson was surprised; he had supposed he was himself the only
person engaged in forming such a collection; and asked if it was intended to publish them.
Audubon replied in the negative: he had never thought of presenting the fruits of his labors
to the world. Wilson was still more surprised; he lost his cheerfulness; and though before
he left Louisville Audubon explored with him the neighboring woods, loaned him his drawings,
and in other ways essayed to promote his interests and happiness, he shook the dust from his
feet when he departed, and wrote in his diary that "literature or art had not a friend in the
place." Far be it from me to write a word in dispraise of Alexander Wilson. He was a man of
genius, enthusiasm, and patient endurance; an honor to the country of his birth, and a glory
to that of his adoption; but he evidently could not bear the thought of being excelled. With
all his merits he was even then greatly inferior to Audubon, and his heart failed him when
he contrasted the performances which had won fame for him with those of the unknown lover of
the same mistress, Nature, whom he thus encountered.

Audubon must soon have abandoned or neglected his day-books and ledgers, for in 1811 we find
him with his rifle and drawing paper among the bayous of Florida, and in the following years
making long and tedious journeys, searching the forests and prairies, the shores of rivers,
lakes, gulfs, and seas, for the subjects of his immortal work, of the publication of which,
however, he had never yet had a thought.

On the fifth of April, 1824, he visited Philadelphia, where the late Dr. Mease, whom he had
known on his first arrival in Pennsylvania, presented him to Charles Lucien Bonaparte, who
in his turn introduced him to the Lyceum of Natural History. He perceived that he could look
for no patronage in this city, and so proceeded to New-York, where he was received with a kindness
well suited to elevate his depressed spirits, and afterwards ascending the Hudson, went westward
to the great lakes, and in the wildest solitudes of the pathless forests renewed his labors.
He now began to think of visiting Europe; the number of his drawings had greatly increased
notwithstanding a misfortune by which two hundred of them, representing nearly a thousand birds,
had been destroyed; and he fancied his work under the hands of the engraver. "Happy days and
nights of pleasing dreams" followed, as he retired farther from the haunts of men, determined
to leave nothing undone which could be accomplished by time or toil. Another year and a half
passed by; he returned to his family, then in Louisiana; and having explored the woods of that
state, at last sailed for England, where he arrived in 1826. In Liverpool and Manchester his
works procured him a generous reception from the most distinguished men of science and letters;
and when he proceeded to Edinburgh and exhibited there his four hundred paintings, "the hearts
of all warmed toward Audubon," says Professor Wilson, "who were capable of conceiving the difficulties,
dangers, and sacrifices that must have been encountered, endured, and overcome before genius
could have embodied these, the glory of its innumerable triumphs."[I] "The man himself," at
this period writes the same eloquent author in another work, "is just what you would expect
from his productions; full of fine enthusiasm and intelligence, most interesting in his looks
and manners, a perfect gentleman, and esteemed by all who know him for the simplicity and frankness
of his nature."[J]

His reception encouraged him to proceed immediately with his plans of publication. It was a
vast undertaking which it would take probably sixteen years to accomplish, and when his first
drawings were delivered to the engraver he had not a single subscriber. His friends pointed
out the rashness of the project and urged him to abandon it. "But my heart was nerved," he
exclaims, "and my reliance on that Power on whom all must depend brought bright anticipations
of success." Leaving his work in the care of his engravers and agents, in the summer of 1828
he visited Paris, and received the homage of the most distinguished men of science in that
capital. Humboldt too, whose gigantic intelligence arose above all others in central Europe,
became his warm friend, and remained until his death a sympathizing correspondent.

The ensuing winter was passed in London, and in April, 1829, he returned to America to explore
anew the woods of the middle and southern states. Accompanied by his wife he left New Orleans
on the eighth of January, 1830, for New-York, and on the twenty-fifth of April, just a year
from the time of his departure, he was again in the Great Metropolis. Before the close of 1830,
he had issued his first volume, containing one hundred plates, representing ninety-nine species
of birds, every figure of the size and colors of life. The applause with which it was received
was enthusiastic and universal. The kings of England and France had placed their names at the
head of his subscription list; he was made a fellow of the Royal Societies of London and Edinburgh;
a member of the Natural History Society of Paris, and other celebrated institutions; and Cuvier,
Swainson, and indeed the great ornithologists of every country, exhausted the words of panegyric
in his praise.

On the first of August, 1831, Audubon arrived once more in New-York, and having passed a few
days with his friends there and in Philadelphia, proceeded to Washington, where the President
and other principal officers of the government gave him letters of assistance and protection
to be used all along the coasts and inland frontiers where there were collectors of revenue
or military or naval forces. He had previously received similar letters from the king's ministers
to the authorities of the British colonies.

The next winter and spring were passed in the Floridas and in Charleston; and early in the
summer, bending his course northward to keep pace with the birds in their migrations, he arrived
in Philadelphia, where he was joined by his family. The cholera was then spreading death and
terror through the country, and on reaching Boston he was himself arrested by sickness and
detained until the middle of August. "Although I have been happy in forming many valuable friendships
in various parts of the world, all dearly cherished by me," he says, "the outpouring of kindness
which I experienced in Boston far exceeded all that I have ever met with;"[K] and he tells
us, with characteristic enthusiasm, of his gratitude to the Appletons, Everetts, Quincys, Pickerings,
Parkmans, and other eminent gentlemen and scholars of that beautiful and hospitable city.

Proceeding at length upon his mission, he explored the forests of Maine and New Brunswick,
and the shores of the Bay of Fundy, and chartering a vessel at Eastport, sailed for the gulf
of St. Lawrence, the Magdalen Islands, and the coast of Labrador. Returning as the cold season
approached, he visited Newfoundland and Nova Scotia, and rejoining his family proceeded to
Charleston, where he spent the winter, and in the spring, after nearly three years' travel
and research, sailed a third time for England.

Among the warmest of his British friends, was always the congenial Wilson, great as a poet,
greater as critic, and greatest of all as the author of the Noctes Ambrosianæ, which contain
more wit and humor, more sound theology, philosophy, and politics, and better and more various
literature, than any other man now living has furnished in a single work. This almost universal
genius, whose relish for the rod and gun and wild wood was scarcely less than that he felt
for the best suppers of Ambrose, or the sharpest onslaught on the Whigs in Parliament, thoroughly
appreciated and heartily loved our illustrious countryman, and in Blackwood's Magazine for
January, 1835, he gives us the following admirable sketch of the visit he now made to Edinburgh:

     "We were sitting one night, lately, all alone by ourselves,
     almost unconsciously eyeing the members, fire without flame, in
     the many-visioned grate, but at times aware of the symbols and
     emblems there beautifully built up, of the ongoings of human
     life, when a knocking, not loud but resolute, came to the front
     door, followed by the rustling thrill of the bell-wire, and
     then by a tinkling far below, too gentle to waken the house
     that continued to enjoy the undisturbed dream of its repose. At
     first we supposed it might be but some late-home-going
     knight-errant from a feast of shells, in a mood, 'between
     malice and true-love,' seeking to disquiet the slumbers of Old
     Christopher, in expectation of seeing his night-cap (which he
     never wears) popped out of the window, and of hearing his voice
     (of which he is charry in the open air) simulating a scold upon
     the audacious sleep-breaker. So we benevolently laid back our
     head on our easy-chair, and pursued our speculations on the
     state of affairs in general--and more particularly on the
     floundering fall of that inexplicable people--the Whigs. We had
     been wondering, and of our wondering found no end, what could
     have been their chief reasons for committing suicide. It
     appeared a case of very singular felo-de-se--for they had so
     timed the 'rash act,' as to excite strong suspicions in the
     public mind that his Majesty had committed murder.
     Circumstances, however, had soon come to light, that proved to
     demonstration, that the wretched Ministry had laid violent
     hands on itself, and effected its purpose by strangulation.
     There--was the fatal black ring visible round the neck--through
     a mere thread; there--were the blood-shot eyes protruding from
     the sockets; there--the lip-biting teeth clenched in the last
     convulsions; and there--sorriest sight of all--was the ghastly
     suicidical smile, last relic of the laughter of despair. But
     the knocking would not leave the door--and listening to its
     character, we were assured that it came from the fist of a
     friend, who saw light through the chinks of the shutter, and
     knew, moreover, that we never put on the shroud of death's
     pleasant brother sleep, till 'ae wee short hour ayont the
     twal,' and often not till earliest cock-crow, which chanticleer
     utters somewhat drowsily, and then replaces his head beneath
     his wing, supported on one side by a partlet, on the other by a
     hen. So we gathered up our slippered feet from the rug, lamp in
     hand stalked along the lobbies, unchained and unlocked the oak
     which our faithful night porter Somnus had sported--and lo! a
     figure muffled up in a cloak, and furred like a Russ, who
     advanced familiarly into the hall, extended both hands and then
     embracing us, bade God bless us, and pronounced, with somewhat
     of a foreign accent, the name in which we and the world
     rejoice--Christopher North!' We were not slow in returning the
     hug fraternal--for who was it but the 'American
     Woodsman?'--even Audubon himself--fresh from the Floridas--and
     breathing of the pure air of far-off Labrador!

     "Three years and upwards had fled since we had taken farewell
     of the illustrious Ornithologist--on the same spot--at the same
     hour; and there was something ghostlike in such return of a
     dear friend from a distant region--almost as if from the land
     of spirits. It seemed as if the same moon again looked at
     us--but then she was wan and somewhat sad--now clear as a
     diamond, and all the starry heavens wore a smile. "Our words
     they were na mony feck'--but in less time than we have taken to
     write it--we two were sitting cheek by jowl, and hand in hand,
     by that essential fire--while we showed by our looks that we
     both felt, now they were over, that three years were but as one
     day! The cane coal-scuttle, instinct with spirit, beeted the
     fire of its own accord, without word or beck of ours, as if
     placed there by the hands of one of our wakeful Lares; in globe
     of purest crystal the Glenlivet shone; unasked the bright brass
     kettle began to whisper its sweet 'under song;' and a centenary
     of the fairest oysters native to our isle turned towards us
     their languishing eyes, unseen the Nereid that had on the
     instant wafted them from the procreant cradle beds of
     Prestonpans. Grace said, we drew in to supper, and hobnobbing,
     from elegant long-shank, down each naturalist's gullet
     graciously descended, with a gurgle, the mildest, the meekest,
     the very Moses of Ales.

     "Audubon, ere half an hour had elapsed, found an opportunity of
     telling us that he had never seen us in a higher state of
     preservation--and in a low voice whispered something about the
     eagle renewing his youth. We acknowledged the kindness by a
     remark on bold bright birds of passage that find the seasons
     obedient to their will, and wing their way through worlds still
     rejoicing in the perfect year. But too true friends were we not
     to be sincere in all we seriously said; and while Audubon
     confessed that he saw rather more plainly than when we parted
     the crowfeet in the corners of our eyes, we did not deny that
     we saw in him an image of the Falco Lencocephalus, for that,
     looking on his 'carum caput,' it answered his own description
     of that handsome and powerful bird, viz. 'the general color of
     the plumage above is dull hair-brown, the lower parts being
     deeply brown, broadly margined with greyish white.' But here he
     corrected us: for 'surely, my dear friend,' quoth he, 'you must
     admit I am a living specimen of the Adult Bird, and you
     remember my description of him in my First Volume.' And thus
     blending our gravities and our gayeties, we sat facing one
     another, each with his last oyster on the prong of his trident,
     which disappeared, like all mortal joys, between a smile and a
     sigh.

     "How similar--in much--our dispositions--yet in almost all how
     dissimilar our lives! Since last we parted, 'we scarcely heard
     of half a mile from home'--he tanned by the suns and beaten by
     the storms of many latitudes--we like a ship laid up in
     ordinary, or anchored close in shore within the same sheltering
     bay--with sails unfurled and flags flying but for sake of show
     on some holyday--he like a ship that every morning had been
     dashing through a new world of waves--often close-reefed or
     under bare poles--but oftener affronting the heavens with a
     whiter and swifter cloud than any hoisted by the combined
     fleets in the sky. And now, with canvas unrent, and masts
     unsprung, returned to the very buoy she left. Somewhat faded,
     indeed, in her apparelling--but her hull sound as ever--not a
     speck of dry rot in her timbers--her keel unscathed by
     rock--her cut-water yet sharp as new-whetted scythe ere the
     mower renews his toil--her figure-head, that had so often
     looked out for squalls, now 'patient as the brooding dove'--and
     her bowsprit--but let us man the main-brace; nor is there purer
     spirit--my trusty frere--in the Old World or the New.

     "It was quite a Noctes. Audubon told us--by snatches--all his
     travels, history, with many an anecdote interspersed of the
     dwellers among the woods--bird, beast, and man.

     "All this and more he told us, with a cheerful voice and
     animated eyes, while the dusky hours were noiselessly wheeling
     the chariot of Night along the star-losing sky; and we too had
     something to tell him of our own home-loving obscurity, not
     ungladdened by studies sweet in the Forest--till Dawn yoked her
     dappled coursers for one single slow stage--and then jocund
     Morn leaping up on the box, took the ribbons in her rosy
     fingers, and, after a dram of dew, blew her bugle, and drove
     like blazes right on towards the gates of Day."

     "His great work," says Wilson, elsewhere, "was indeed a
     perilous undertaking for a stranger in Britain, without the
     patronage of powerful friends, and with no very great means of
     his own--all of which he embarked in the enterprise dearest to
     is heart. Had it failed, Audubon would have been a ruined
     man--and that fear must have sometimes dismally disturbed him,
     for he is not alone in life, and is a man of strong family
     affections. But happily those nearest his breast are as
     enthusiastic in the love of natural science as himself--and
     were all willing to sink or swim with the beloved husband and
     venerated father. America may well be proud of him--and he
     gratefully records the kindness he has experienced from so many
     of her most distinguished sons. In his own fame he is just and
     generous to all who excel in the same studies; not a particle
     of jealousy is in his composition; a sin, that, alas! seems too
     easily to beset too many of the most gifted spirits in
     literature and in science; nor is the happiest
     genius--imaginative or intellectual--such is the frailty of
     poor human nature at the best--safe from the access of that
     dishonouring passion."

The second volume of The Birds of America was finished in 1834, and in December of that year
he published in Edinburgh the second volume of the Ornithological Biography. Soon after, while
he was in London, a nobleman called upon him, with his family, and on examining some of his
original drawings, and being told that it would still require eight years to complete the work,
subscribed for it, saying, "I may not see it finished, but my children will." The words made
a deep impression on Audubon. "The solemnity of his manner I could not forget for several days,"
he writes in the introduction to his third volume; "I often thought that neither might I see
the work completed, but at length exclaimed, 'My sons may;' and now that another volume, both
of my illustrations and of my biographies, is finished, my trust in Providence is augmented,
and I cannot but hope that myself and my family together may be permitted to see the completion
of my labors." When this was written, ten years had elapsed since the publication of his first
plate. In the next three years, among other excursions he made one to the western coast of
the Floridas and to Texas, in a vessel placed at his disposal by our government; and at the
end of this time appeared the fourth and concluding volume of his engravings, and the fifth
of his descriptions. The whole comprised four hundred and thirty-five plates, containing one
thousand and sixty-five figures, from the Bird of Washington to the Humming Bird, of the size
of life, and a great variety of land and marine views, and coral and other productions, of
different climates and seasons, all carefully drawn and colored after nature. Well might the
great naturalist felicitate himself upon the completion of his gigantic task. He had spent
nearly half a century "amid the tall grass of the far-extended prairies of the west, in the
solemn forests of the north, on the heights of the midland mountains, by the shores of the
boundless ocean, and on the bosoms of our vast bays, lakes and rivers, searching for things
hidden since the creation of this wondrous world from all but the Indian who has roamed in
the gorgeous but melancholy wilderness." And speaking from the depth of his heart he says,
"Once more surrounded by all the members of my dear family, enjoying the countenance of numerous
friends who have never deserted me, and possessing a competent share of all that can render
life agreeable, I look up with gratitude to the Supreme Being, and feel that I am happy."

In 1839, having returned for the last time to his native country and established himself with
his family near the city of New-York, Audubon commenced the publication of The Birds of America
in imperial octavo volumes, of which the seventh and last was issued in the summer of 1844.
The plates in this edition, reduced from his larger illustrations, were engraved and colored
in the most admirable manner by Mr. Bowen of Philadelphia, under the direction of the author,
and excepting The Birds of America in folio, there has never been published so magnificent
a work on ornithology.

Audubon was too sincere a worshipper of nature to be content with inglorious repose, even after
having accomplished in action more than was ever dreamed of by any other naturalist; and while
the "edition for the people" of his Birds of America was in course of publication, he was busy
amid the forests and prairies, the reedy swamps of our southern shores, the cliffs that protect
our eastern coasts, by the currents of the Mexican gulf and the tide streams of the Bay of
Fundy, with his sons, Victor Gifford and John Woodhouse, making the drawings and writing the
biographies of the Quadrupeds of America, a work in no respect inferior to that on our birds,
which he began to publish about five years ago. The plates, on double imperial folio paper,
engraved and colored by Mr. Bowen after the original drawings made from nature by Audubon and
his sons, are even more magnificent than those of the Birds of America, which twenty years
ago delighted and astonished the naturalists of Europe.

The Biography of American Quadrupeds, accompanying these plates, and of which the first volume
appeared in New-York in 1846, was written principally by the Rev. John Bachman, D.D., of Charleston,
a long-tried and enthusiastic friend, of whose introduction to him Audubon thus speaks in the
preface of the second volume of his Ornithological Biography:

     "It was late in the afternoon when we took our lodgings in
     Charleston. Being fatigued, and having written the substance of
     my journey to my family, and delivered a letter to the Rev. Mr.
     Gilman, I retired to rest. At the first glimpse of day the
     following morning, my assistants and myself were already
     several miles from the city, commencing our search in the
     fields and woods, and having procured abundance of subjects
     both for the pencil and the scalpel, we returned home, covered
     with mud, and so accoutred as to draw towards us the attention
     of every person in the streets. As we approached the
     boarding-house, I observed a gentleman on horseback close to
     our door. He looked at me, came up, inquired if my name was
     Audubon, and on being answered in the affirmative, instantly
     leaped from his saddle, shook me most cordially by the
     hand--there is much to be expressed and understood by a shake
     of the hand--and questioned me in so kind a manner, that I for
     a while felt doubtful how to reply. At his urgent desire, I
     removed to his house, as did my assistants. Suitable apartments
     were assigned to us; and once introduced to the lovely and
     interesting group that composed his family, I seldom passed a
     day without enjoying their society. Servants, carriages,
     horses, and dogs were all at our command, and friends
     accompanied us to the woods and plantations, and formed parties
     for water excursions. Before I left Charleston, I was truly
     sensible of the noble and generous spirit of the hospitable
     Carolinians."

Audubon and Bachman (the same Bachman who recently refuted the heresies of Agassiz respecting
the unity of the human race) were from this time devoted friends and co-workers. For several
years the health of the hero naturalist had declined, and he was rarely if ever seen beyond
the limits of his beautiful estate on the banks of the Hudson, near this city, where, on the
twenty-seventh of January, 1851, he died, full of years, and illustrious with the most desirable
glory.

Audubon's highest claim to admiration is founded upon his drawings in natural history, in which
he has exhibited a perfection never before attempted. In all our climates--in the clear atmosphere,
by the dashing waters, amid the grand old forests with their peculiar and many-tinted foliage,
by him first made known to art--he has represented our feathered tribes, building their nests
and fostering their young, poised on the tip of the spray and hovering over the sedgy margin
of the lake, flying in the clouds in quest of prey or from pursuit, in love, enraged, indeed
in all the varieties of their motion and repose and modes of life, so perfectly that all other
works of the kind are to his as stuffed skins to the living birds.

But he has also indisputable claims to a high rank as a man of letters. Some of his written
pictures of birds, so graceful, clearly defined, and brilliantly colored, are scarcely inferior
to the productions of his pencil. His powers of general description are not less remarkable.
The waters seem to dance to his words as to music, and the lights and shades of his landscapes
show the practised hand of a master. The evanescent shades of manners, also, upon the extreme
frontiers, where the footprints of civilization have hardly crushed the green leaves, have
been sketched with graphic fidelity in his journals.

No author has more individuality. The enthusiastic, trustful and loving spirit which breathes
through his works distinguished the man. From the beginning he surrendered himself entirely
to his favorite pursuit, and was intent to learn every thing from the prime teacher, Nature.
His style as well as his knowledge was a fruit of his experiences. He had never written for
the press until after the age at which most authors have established their reputation; and
when he did write, his page glowed like the rich wild landscape in the spring, when Nature,
then most beautiful, "bathes herself in her own dewy waters." We seem to hear his expressions
of wondering admiration, as unknown mountains, valleys and lakes burst upon his view, as the
deer at his approach leaped from his ambush into the deeper solitudes, as the startled bird
with rushing wings darted from his feet into the sky; or his pious thanksgiving, as at the
end of a weary day the song of the sparrow or the robin relieved his mind from the heavy melancholy
that bore it down.

When the celebrated Buffon had completed the ornithological portion of his great work on natural
history, he announced with unhesitating assurance that he had "finished the history of the
birds of the world." Twenty centuries had served for the discovery of only eight hundred species,
but this number seemed immense, and the short-sighted naturalist declared that the list would
admit of "no material augmentation" which embraced hardly a sixteenth of those now known to
exist. To this astonishing advance of the science of ornithology, no one has contributed more
than Audubon, by his magnificent painting and fascinating history.

Mr. Audubon left unpublished a voluminous autobiography, which we hope will be published with
as little delay as possible.

FOOTNOTES:

[I] Wilson's Miscellanies, vol. ii. p. 118.

[J] Noctes Ambrosianæ, vol. ii. p. 103.

[K] Introduction to the second volume of Ornithological Biography, p. xvii.

Original Poetry.

OLD AGE.

By Alfred B. Street.

      All day the chill bleak wind had shrieked and wailed
      Through leafless forests, and o'er meadows sear;
      Through the fierce sky great sable clouds had sailed;
        Outlines were hard--all nature's looks were drear.
      Gone, Indian Summer's bland, delicious haze,
      Thickening soft nights and filming mellow days.
      Then rose gray clouds; thin fluttered first the snow,
        Then like loose shaken fleeces, then in dense streams
      That muffled gradually all below
        In pearly smoothness. Then outburst the gleams
      At sunset; nature shone in flashing white,
      And the last rays tinged all with rosy light.
      So Life's bland Autumn o'er, may old age come
    In muffling peace, and death display hope's radiant bloom.

THE CASTLE IN THE AIR.[L]

By R. H. Stoddard.

    I.

          We have two lives about us,
          Within us, and without us;
          Two worlds in which we dwell,
          Alternate Heaven and Hell:
          Without, the sombre Real,
    Within our heart of hearts, the beautiful Ideal!
      I stand between the thresholds of the two,
      Fettered and bound with many a heavy chain;
      I strive to rend their links, but all in vain;
      The False is strong, and holds me from the True.
      Only in dreams my spirit wanders o'er
      The starry portal of the world of bliss,
      And lives the life which Fate denies in this,
    Which may have once been mind, but will be, nevermore.

    II.

          My Castle stands alone,
          Away from Earth and Time,
          In some diviner clime,
          In Fancy's tropic zone,
          Beneath its summer skies,
    Where all the live-long year the summer never dies!
      A stately marble pile whose pillars rise,
      From sculptured bases, fluted to the dome,
      With wreathéd friezes crowned, all carven nice
      With pendant leaves, like ragged rims of foam;
      A thousand windows front the rising sun,
      Deep-set between the columns, many paned,
      Tri-arched, emblazoned, gorgeously stained,
      Crimson and purple, green and blue, and dun,
      And all their wedded colors fall below,
      Like rainbows shattered on a field of snow;
      A bordering gallery runs along the roof,
      Topt by a cupola, whose glittering spire
      Pierces the brooding clouds, a glowing woof,
    With golden spindles wove in Morning's loom of fire!

    III.

          What fine and rare domains
          Untold for leagues around;
          Green parks, and meads, and plains,
          And bosky woods profound,--
    A realm of leafiness, and sweet enchanted ground!
      Before the palace lies a shaven lawn,
      Sloping and shining in the dews of dawn,
      With turfy terraces, and garden bowers,
      Where rows of slender urns are full of flowers;
      Broad oaks o'erarch the winding avenues,
      Edged round with evergreens of fadeless bloom,
      And pour a thousand intermingling hues,
      A many tinted flood of golden gloom;
      Far-seen through twinkling leaves,
      The fountains gush aloft like silver sheaves,
      Drooping with shining ears, and crests of spray,
      And foamy tassels blowing every way,
      Shaking in marble basins white and cold,
      A bright and drainless shower of beaded grain,
      Which winnows off, in sun-illumined rain
      The dusty chaff, a cloud of misty gold;
      Around their volumes, down the plashy tide,
      The swans are sailing mixed in lilies white,
      Like virgin queens in soft disdain and pride,
      Sweeping amid their maids with trains of light;
      A little herd of deer with startled looks,
      In shady parks where all the year they browse,
      Head-down are drinking at the lucid brooks,
      Their antlers mirrored with the tangled boughs;
      My rivers flow beyond, with guardant ranks
      Of silver-liveried poplars, on their banks;
      Barges are fretting at the castle piers,
      Rocking with every ripple in the tide;
      And bridges span the stream with arches wide,
      Their stony 'butments mossed and gray with years;
      An undulating range of vales, and bowers,
      And columned palaces, and distant towers,
      And on the welkin mountains bar the view,
    Shooting their jagged peaks sublimely up the blue!

    IV.

          I saunter up the walks;
          My sandals wetted through
          With dripping flowers and stalks,
          That line the avenue;
    My broidered mantle all bedabbled with the dew!
      I climb a flight of steps with regal pride,
      And stroll along an echoing colonnade,
      Sweeping against its pillared balustrade,
      Adown a porch, and through a portal wide,
      And I am in my Castle, Lord of all;
      My faithful groom is standing in the hall
      To doff my shining robe, while servitors,
      And cringing chamberlains beside the doors
      Waving their gilded wands, obsequious wait,
    And bow me on my way in royal pomp and state!

    V.

          My chamber lies apart,
          The Castle's very heart,
          And all things rich and rare,
          From land, and sea, and air,
    Are lavished with a wild and waste profusion there!
      The carpeting was woven in Turkish looms,
      From softest wool of fine Circassian sheep;
      Tufted like springy moss in forests deep,
      Illuminate with all its autumn blooms;
      The antique chairs are made of cedar trees,
      Veined with the rings of vanished cennturies
      And touched with winter's frost, and summer's sun;
      Sofas and couches, stuffed with cygnet's fleece,
      Loll round inviting dreaminess and ease;
      The gorgeous window curtains, damask red,
      Suspended, silver-ringed, on bars of gold,
      Droop heavily, in many a fluted fold,
      And, rounding outward, intercept, and shed
      The prisoned daylight o'er the slumbrous room,
      In streams of rosy dimness, purple gloom;
      Hard by are cabinets of curious shells,
      Twisted and jointed, hornéd, wreathed, and curled,
      And some like moons in rosy mist impearled,
      With coral boughs from ocean's deepest cells;
      Cases of rare medallions, coins antique,
      Found in the dust of cities, Roman, Greek;
      Etruscan urns, transparent, soft, and bright,
      With fawns and dancing shepherds on their sides;
      And costly marble vases dug from night
      In Pompeii, beneath its lava tides:
      Clusters of arms, the spoil of ancient wars;
      Old scimitars of true Damascus brand,
      Short swords with basket hilts to guard the hand,
      And iron casques with rusty visor bars;
      Lances, and spears, and battle axes keen,
      With crescent edges, shields with studded thorns,
      Yew bows, and shafts, and curvéd bugle horns,
      With tasseled baldricks of the Lincoln green:
      And on the walls with lifted curtains, see!
      The portraits of my noble ancestry;
      Thin featured, stately dames with powdered locks,
      And courtly shepherdesses tending flocks;
      Stiff lords in wigs, and ruffles white as snow,
      Haught peers, and princes centuries ago,
      And dark Sir Hugh, the bravest of the line,
    With all the knightly scars he won in Palestine!

    VI.

          My gallery sleeps aloof,
          Soft-lighted through the roof,
          Enshrining pictures old,
          And groups of statues cold,
    The gems of Art, when Art was in her Age of Gold!
      Not picked from any single age or clime,
      Nor one peculiar master, school, or tone;
      Select of all, the best of all alone,
      The spoil and largesse of the Earth and Time;
      Food for all thoughts and fancies, grave or gay;
      Suggestive of old lore, and poets' themes;
      These filled with shapes of waking life, and day,
      And those with spirits and the world of dreams;
      Let me draw back the curtains, one by one,
      And give their muffled brightness to the sun:

    THE PICTURES.

      Helen and Paris on their bridal night,
      Under the swinging cressets' starry light,
      With Priam and his fifty sons around,
      Feasting in all their majesty and bloom,

      Filling their golden cups with eager hands,
      To drink a health, while pale Cassandra stands
      With all her raven tresses unbound,
      Her soul o'ershadowed by the coming doom.

      Andromache, with all her tearful charms,
      Folded upon the mighty Hector's breast,
      And the babe shrinking in its Nurse's arms,
      Affrightened by the nodding of his crest.

      The giant Cyclops, sitting in his cave,
      Helped by the diving Ulysses, old and wise,
      Spilling the wine in rivers down his beard,
      Shaggy and grim,--his shoulder overleered
      By swart Silenus, sly and cunning knave,
      Who steals a puffy skin with twinkling eyes.

      Anacreon, lolling in the myrtle shades,
      Bibbing his Teian draughts with rich delight,
      Pledging the dancing girls and Cyprian maids,
      Pinching their little ears, and shoulders white.

      A cloudless sunrise on the glittering Nile,
      A bronzéd Sphinx, and temple on the shore,
      And robéd priests that toss their censers while
      Abased in dust, the populace adore;

      A beakéd galley fretting at its curb,
      With reedy oars, and masts, and silken sails,
      And Cleopatra walks the deck superb,
      Slow-followed by her court in spangled veils.

      The Virgin Mother, and the Holy Child,
      Holding a globe and sceptre, sweet and mild;
      The Magi bring their gifts with reverent looks,
      And the rapt Shepherds lean upon their crooks.

      A summer fête, a party on a lawn;
      Bowing gallants, with pluméd caps in hand,
      And ladies with guitars, and, far withdrawn,
      The rustic people dancing in a band.

      A bleak defile, a pass in mountains deep,
      Whose whitened summits wear their morning glow,
      And dark banditti winding down the steep
      Of shelvy rocks, pointing their guns below.

      A harvest scene, a vineyard on the Rhine;
      Arbors, and wreathéd pales, and laughing swains
      Pouring their crowded baskets into wains,
      And vats, and trodden presses gushing wine.

      A Flemish Tavern: boors and burghers hale
      Drawn round a table, o'er a board of chess,
      Smoking their heavy pipes, and drinking ale,
      Blowing from tankard brims the frothiness.

      A picture of Cathay, a justice scene;
      Pagodas, statues, and a group around;
      And, in his sedan chair, the Mandarin,
      Reading the scroll of laws to prisoners bound,
      Bambooed with canes, and writhing on the ground;
      And many more whose veils I will undraw
      Some other day, exceeding fresh and fine;
      And statues of the Grecian gods divine,
      In all their various moods of love and awe:
      The Phidean Jove, with calm creative face,
      Like Heaven brooding o'er the deeps of Space;
      Imperial Juno, Mercury, wingéd-heeled,
      Lit with a message. Mars with helm and shield,
      Apollo with the discus, bent to throw,
      The piping Pan, and Dian with her bow,
      And Cytherca just risen from the swell
      Of crudded foam, half-stooping on her knee,
      Wringing her dripping tresses in the sea
      Whose loving billows climb the curvéd shell
      Tumultuously, and o'er its edges flow,
    And kiss with pallid lips her nakedness of snow!

    VII.

          My boots may lie and mould,
          However rare and old;
          I cannot read to-day,
          Away! with books, away!
          Full-fed with sweets of sense,
    I sink upon my couch in honied indolence!
      Here are rich salvers full of nectarines,
      Dead-ripe pomegranates, sweet Arabian dates,
      Peaches and plums, and clusters fresh from vines,
      And all imaginable sweets, and cakes,
      And here are drinking-cups, and long-necked flasks
      In wicker mail, and bottles broached from casks,
      In cellars delvéd deep, and winter cold,
      Select, superlative, and centuries old.
      What more can I desire? what book can be
      As rich as Idleness and Luxury?
      What lore can fill my heart with joy divine,
      Like luscious fruitage, and enchanted wine?
      Brimming with Helicon I dash the cup;
      Why should I waste my years in hoarding up
      The thoughts of eld? Let dust to dust return:
      No more for me,--my heart is not an urn!
      I will no longer sip from little flasks,
      Covered with damp and mould, when Nature yields,
      And Earth is full of purple vintage fields;
      Nor peer at Beauty dimmed with mortal masks,
      When I at will may have them all withdrawn,
      And freely gaze in her transfigured face;
      Nor limp in fetters in a weary race,
      When I may fly unbound, like Mercury's fawn;
      No more contented with the sweets of old,
      Albeit embalmed in nectar, since the trees,
      The Eden bowers, the rich Hesperides,
    Droop all around my path, with living fruits of gold!

    VIII.

          Oh what a life is mine,
          A life of joy and mirth,
          The sensuous life of Earth,
          Forever fresh and fine.
    A heavenly worldliness, mortality divine!
      When eastern skies, the sea, and misty plain,
      Illumined slowly, doff their nightly shrouds,
      And Heaven's bright archer Morn begins to rain
      His golden arrows through the banded clouds,
      I rise and tramp away the jocund hours,
      Knee-deep in dewy grass, and beds of flowers;
      I race my eager greyhound on the hills,
      And climb with bounding feet the craggy steeps,
      Peak-lifted, gazing down the cloven deeps,
      Where mighty rivers shrink to threaded rills;
      The ramparts of the mountains loom around,
      Like splintery fragments of a ruined world;
      The cliff-bound dashing cataracts, downward hurled
      In thunderous volumes, shake the chasms profound:
      The imperial eagle, with a dauntless eye
      Wheels round the sun, the monarch of the sky;
      I pluck his eyrie in the blasted wood
      Of ragged pines, and when the vulture screams,
      I track his flight along the solitude,
      Like some dark spirit in the world of dreams!
      When Noon in golden armor, travel spent,
      Climbing the azure plains of Heaven, alone,
      Pitches upon its topmost steep his tent,
      And looks o'er Nature from his burning throne,
      I loose my little shallop from its quay,
      And down the winding rivers slowly float,
      And steer in many a shady cove and bay,
      Where birds are warbling with melodious note;
      I listen to the humming of the bees,
      The water's flow, the winds, the wavy trees,
      And take my lute and touch its silver chords,
      And set the Summer's melody to words;
      Sometimes I rove beside the lonely shore,
      Margined and flanked by slanting shelvy ledges,
      And caverns echoing Ocean's sullen roar;
      Threading the bladdery weeds, and paven shells,
      Beyond the line of foam, the jewelled chain,
      The largesse of the ever giving main.
      Tossed at the feet of Earth with surgy swells,
      I plunge into the waves, and strike away,
      Breasting with vigorous strokes the snowy spray;
      Sometimes I lounge in arbors hung with vines,
      The which I sip, and sip, with pleasure mute,
      O'er mouthful bites of golden-rinded fruit;
      When evening comes, I lie in dreamy rest,
      Where lifted casements front the glowing west,
      And watch the clouds, like banners wide unfurled,
      Hung o'er the flaming threshold of the world:
      Its mission done, the holy Day recedes,
      Borne Heavenward in its car, with fiery steeds,
      Leaving behind a lingering flush of light,
      Its mantle fallen at the feet of Night;
      The flocks are penned, the earth is growing dim;
      The moon comes rounding up the welkin's rim,
      Glowing through thinnest mist, an argent shell,
      Washed up the sky from Night's profoundest cell;
      One after one the stars begin to shine
      In drifted beds, like pearls through shallow brine;
      And lo! through clouds that part before the chase
      Of silent winds--a belt of milky white,
      The Galaxy, a crested surge of light,
      A reef of worlds along the sea of Space:
      I hear my sweet musicians far withdrawn,
      Below my wreathéd lattice, on the lawn,
      With harp, and lute, and lyre,
      And passionate voices full of tears and fire;
      And envious nightingales with rich disdain
      Filling the pauses of the languid strain;
      My soul is tranced and bound,
      Drifting along the magic sea of sound,
      Driving in a barque of bliss from deep to deep,
    And piloted at last into the ports of Sleep!

    IX.

       Nor only this, though this
          Might seal a life of bliss,
          But something more divine,
          For which I once did pine,
          The crown of worlds above,
    The heart of every heart, the Soul of Being--Love!
      I bow obedient to my Lady's sway,
      The sovereignty that won my soul of yore,
      And linger in her presence night and day,
      And feel a heaven around her evermore;
      I sit beside her couch in chambers lone,
      And soft unbraid, and lay her locks apart,
      And take her taper fingers in my own,
      And press them to my lips with leaps of heart;
      Sometimes I kneel to her with cups of wine,
      With pleading eyes, beseeching her to taste,
      With long-delaying lips, the draught divine;
      And when she sips thereof, I clasp her waist,
      And kiss her mouth, and shake her hanging curls,
      And in her coy despite unloose her zone of pearls!
      I live for Love, for Love alone, and who
      Dare chide me for it? who dare call it folly?
      It is a holy thing, if aught is holy,
      And true indeed, if Truth herself is true:
      Earth cleaves to earth, its sensuous life is dear,
      Mortals should love mortality while here,
      And seize the glowing hours before they fly:
      Bright eyes should answer eyes, warm lips should meet,
      And hearts enlocked to kindred hearts should beat,
    And every soul that lives, in love should live and die!

    X.

          My dear and gentle wife,
          The Angel of my life,
          Oppressed with sweetest things,
          Has folded up her wings,
          And lies in slumber deep,
    Like some divinest Dream upon the couch of Sleep!

      Nor sound, nor stir profanes the stilly room,
      Haunted by Sleep and Silence, linkéd pair;
      The very light itself muffled in gloom,
      Steals in, and melts the enamored air
      Where Love doth brood and dream, while Passion dies,
      Breathing his soul out in a mist of sighs!
      Lo! where she lies behind the curtains white,
      Pillowed on clouds of down,--her golden hair
      Braided around her forehead smooth and fair,
      Like a celestial diadem of light:--
      Her soft voluptuous lips are drawn apart,
      Curving in fine repose, and maiden pride;
      Her creamy breast,--its mantle brushed aside
      Swells with the long pulsation of her heart:
      One languid arm rests on the coverlid,
      And one beneath the crumpled sheet is hid,
      (Ah happy sheets! to hide an arm so sweet!)
      Nor all concealed amid their folds of snow,
      The soft perfection of her shape below,
      Rounded and tapering to her little feet!
      Oh Love! if Beauty ever left her sphere,
      And sovereign sisters, Art and Poesy,
      Moulded in loveliness she slumbers here,
      Slumbers, dear love, in thee!
      It is thy smile that makes the chamber still;
      It is thy breath that fills the scented air;
      The light around is borrowed from thy hair,
      And all things else are subject to thy will,
      And I am so bewildered in this deep
      Ambrosial calm, and passionate atmosphere,
      I know not whether I am dreaming here,
          Or in the world of Sleep!

    XI.

          My eyes are full of tears,
          My heart is full of pain,
          To wake, as now, again,
    And walk, as in my youth, the wilderness of Years!
      No more! no more! the autumn winds are loud
      In stormy passes, howling to the Night:
      Behind a cloud the moon doth veil her light,
      And the rain pours from out the hornéd cloud.
      And hark! the solemn and mysterious bell,
      Swinging its brazen echoes o'er the wave:
      Not mortal hands, but spirits ring the knell,
    And toll the parting ghost of Midnight to its grave.

TO A BEREAVED MOTHER.

BY HERMANN.

    Its smile and happy laugh are lost to thee,
    Earth must his mother and his pillow be.

    W. G. CLARK.

    Mother, now thy task is done,
      Now thy vigil ended;
    With the coming of the sun,
      Grief and joy are blended.

    Grief that thus thy flower of love
      From its stem is riven;
    Joy that will bloom above,
      Midst the bowers of Heaven.

    Gone, as oft expires the light
      Of thy nightly taper:
    Gone, as 'fore the sunshine bright,
      Early morning's vapor.

    Kiss its lips so mute and cold,
      Cold as chiselled marble,
    They will now to harp of gold
      Glad Hosannas warble.

    At the last they sweetly smiled,
      Told it not for gladness;
    Would'st thou now recall thy child
      To a world of sadness?

    It is hard to gather up,
      Ties so rudely riven;
    But thou'lt find this bitter cup
      For thy weal was given.

    Kiss again its hands so white,
      Kiss its marble forehead;
    Soon the grave will hide from sight,
      That thou only borrowed.

    Thou will meet thy child again,
      Where no death or sorrow
    Bring their sad to-day of pain,
      And their dread to-morrow.

FOOTNOTES:

[L] This poem, in an unfinished form, was published some months ago in Sartain's Magazine.
It has since been re-written for the International, and is now much more than before deserving
of the applause with which it was received.

THE AMBITIOUS BROOKLET.

BY A. OAKEY HALL.

CHAPTER I.

     How the Brooklet was born; and lodged; and wandered off one
     rainy day.

There was once a Brooklet born of a modest spring that circled through a smiling meadow. All
the hours of the Spring, and the Summer, and the Autumn, kept she her musical round; greeting
the sun at his rising, together with the meadow-larks which came to dip their beaks in the
sparkling water-drops; and singing to the moon and stars all night, as she bore their features
within her bosom, in grateful remembrance of their beauty. The laborer in the field hard by
often came to visit her, and wet his honest, toil-browned brow with her cooling drops; and
often, too, the laborer's daughter came at sunset time to sit by a mossy stone, with so lovely
a face that the Brooklet, as she mirrored the features of the beautiful visitor, leaped about
the pebbles with ripplings of admiration.

And so this Brooklet lived on, only ceasing her merry flow and circling journey when the bushes
by her side became white with snow, and when the rabbits from the brushwood fence at her head
came out to stand upon the slippery casing that the Brooklet often saw spreading over her,
and shutting out the warm sunshine by day, and at nightfall blurring the radiance of moon and
stars.

One stormy spring day the Brooklet seemed to rise higher among the twigs of the alder-bushes
than ever before; the rain came down faster and heavier, and beat into her bosom, until her
tiny waves were rough and sore with pain, and she was fain to nestle closer to the sedgy grass
that now bent lowly to the pebbles at the roots. Growing higher every minute was the Brooklet;
and frightened somewhat, and longing for the sunlight, or the laborer, and for the lovely daughter's
face to cheer her up, she looked off over a track of country wider and greener than she had
ever seen before. And so the Brooklet, all frightened as she was, said to herself, "I'll run
along a bit into this country spot, so wide and green, and maybe I shall find the sunlight
and the lovely face."

Faster came the rain; and so the Brooklet, leaping wildly over a rock whose top until then
her eyes had never seen, went flowing on upon this country spot, so wide and green. The new
sights coming in view at every bound quite made the Brooklet forget her terrors from the beating
rain; she was pained no longer by the heavy drops, but soothed herself among the velvet grass;
and turned between little flowers scarcely above the ground, and which, as she passed them,
seemed to be as frightened by the wind and rain as herself had been before the meadow was left
behind.

The Brooklet had thus run on until she saw the country spot so wide and green was well passed
over, and trees and bushes, darker and thicker than she had ever known before, were close at
hand. And while she thought of stopping in her way and going back, she heard not far before
an echo of a sound most like unto her own; and so kept on to find it out. Clearer and louder
increased the sound, as now through mouldy leaves and dark thickets, and under decayed logs
and insect-burrowed moss, she kept a course, until presently, over a fallen tree, she saw a
Brooklet, larger, wider, and evidently much older than herself, which, on her near approach,
ran by the fallen tree's side, and said, "Good morning, sister: what is so delicate a being,
as you seem to be, doing in this dark forest?"

The wanderer Brooklet became silent with wonder. She had never been addressed before, though
often trying to talk with the laborer, and to the lovely face of her meadow acquaintance, without
the slightest notice upon their part of the overtures.

"Good morning, sister, I say," was repeated over the fallen tree. "Where are you going at so
slow a pace? Come over, and let us talk a bit."

"I cannot, for I am terribly frightened, and I've lost my way. I want to quit this dark place,
and go where I can hear the lark again, and see the pretty face which used to look at mine
when I was circling in yonder meadow, now, I fear, far, far behind."

"Larks and pretty faces, indeed! Why what a spooney sister, you are, to be sure. I'll show
you more birds than ever you heard sing before, and prettier faces than ever you saw before."

"No, no, I must go back," replied the wanderer; "I have come too far already, and see, the
rain has almost ceased."

"More's the pity for that," returned the other; "the faster it rains the faster I go, and that
is what I want. I have left my family brooks a long time since, and I'm going on my travels
to be somebody. I'm tired of my lonesome life among the meadows. I'm the ambitious Brooklet.
Come over, then, and go along; we'll travel the faster in company."

"I'm not ambitious; and as you may see, I cannot come."

"You're almost to the log top now. I'll kiss you soon," triumphed the ambitious Brooklet, circling
gayly round a tuft of green.

It must have been the terrible rain, or the fright of her dark journeying place, that had taken
her strength away:--the wandering Brooklet felt that it must be: for now her strength of will
was almost gone. Nearer the log top came in view, until with a bound she swept its polished
surface, and with a dash came over upon the ambitious Brooklet.

"Good! that's the way to do it; now we shall journey gayly on," said the latter, "I have lost
much time in stopping here, and there are such rare sights ahead!"

The wanderer felt the oddest sensations she had ever known, and said, "Sister--ambitious sister--how
much warmer than I are you!"

"Oh, you are young, I suppose--fresh from the icy spring. But journey on more southward yet,
away from these dark trees, and you'll be warmer yet; come, I say."

"I like your feel; but then I shall be lost, I know I shall; and so I'll stay behind."

"You cannot; for, ambitious as I am, I want your help. See how much faster we travel together
when your strength is joined to mine; and I'm the strongest, and you can't go back."

The wandering Brooklet looked fearfully around, and saw indeed that the log she had leaped
was now fast fading away, and felt that her strength became less and less as the ambitious
Brooklet clung closer to her side.

Presently they came in sight of a ledge of rocks. "Oh, this is rare indeed!" said the stronger
sister Brooklet, "Let us pause a bit for breath, and then for a merry leap adown the valley
of pines you see before."

The Brooklets stopped, and became stronger, and leaped over the rocks; the one with an exulting
bound--the other carried tremblingly along.

The leap was a long one, and a hard one; for there were craggy rocks beneath, which they had
not seen. And the ambitious Brooklet cried sharply and loudly--foaming in her rage as she went
between the stony points, and quite forgetting her weaker sister in her pain. The latter was
sorely injured too, and cut into little foam-bits; but she kept her wits about her, looking
around everywhere for a place to rest. Soon she espied one--a little bowl of marshy ground,
hemmed in by rocks, into which a straggling dropping from the chasm above slowly came.

"Here will I go and rest," she said. So waiting for the ambitious Brooklet to get far out of
sight, she collected all her strength for a jump into the bowl, where the drops came sparkling
in. There was no need for fear of the sister on before; her she heard going over rock after
rock, crying and wailing in her craggy journey. Then the tired wanderer, with a violent effort
of her exhausted strength, jumped a rock and fell panting into the marshy bowl.

CHAPTER II.

     How the Brooklet lived on in her new quarters; and how
     misfortune made her discontented.

The dropping of the water from the rocks above her new abode, was cold and grateful to the
Brooklet in her fevered state. It made her think of the spring she came from; and so of the
meadow; and the alder-bushes; and the lovely face a weary way off now she knew, and fenced
away from her return by cruel jagged rocks.

Days passed by; and the sun came out all brightly. And the moon and stars were seen again;
and larger and sweeter birds than she had heard before, now perched upon the trees about, warbling
and chirruping from day-break to twilight. So the time passed on. The wanderer began to feel
unsettled in her solitude. But there was no return by the path she came; still were the sharp
rocks seen above; and still she felt a twinge of pain when thinking of her weary journey on
that rainy day. Often too she thought of her ambitious sister, wondering where she was now
and what she was about; and sometimes she almost fancied she would have been happier had she
gone along. It was quite evident to herself that she was getting discontented.

There was one pleasure she prized much. Following in the train of the ambitious Brooklet had
been a score of fishes, which, frightened by the leap upon the jagged rocks, had staid behind
with the timid wanderer, until they became part of her family in the new retreat. Overlooking,
and enjoying the gambols of these fish, the discontented Brooklet often amused herself. Observing
how when the sun came slanting through the sides of the foliage about, they would dart out
from their hiding-places in the old dead leaves at the feet of the Brooklet, and so jump up
to greet the warming rays: or how, when a fly fell down from the overhanging boughs, and tried
to swim away, they would jump to nab a bit of lunch, scrabbling and tugging as they went; or
how, when the largest fish of all threw off his dignity, and played with them at hide and seek
under the foot-deep bottom of mud, they would all shoot about her life-blood drops without
regard to the angles of pain their fins would leave behind!

Thus the summer-time came on, and was passing by, when one day the Brooklet felt a shadow upon
her, and looked up to see the cause--when high upon the rocks above, there stood a bright-eyed
boy, with curling locks that blew about in golden beauty with the breeze. In his hand he held
a little stick, which he turned over from time to time, and would take up and then lay it down,
as if preparing for something wonderful. The curiosity of the Brooklet was aroused to know
what he could mean, when presently she saw him sit upon the rock, and from the stick drop down
upon her face a worm, which when the fishes saw they darted out to eat.

"It is a beautiful boy; and a kind boy," said the artless Brook unto herself; "and he has come
to feed the little fishes with a worm. I have not seen one since I left my little meadow on
that rainy day. How like the lovely face I used to see, is his which now looks down."

While thus the Brook was soliloquizing, a fish more cunning than the rest, had seized the worm
within his mouth, and was swimming away to his favorite hole by an old willow stump to there
complete a meal. He was just entering it, when the Brook saw him suddenly flash from her embrace,
floundering and pulling as he went up, up through the air, unto the mossy bank above the rock
from which fell the shadow of the boy. And now the Brook, more curious than ever, saw the face
so like the laborer's daughter overspread with smiles as the tiny hands grasped the fish, and
with a wrench tore out the worm from his gills, a piece of which fell on the Brook athwart
the shadow of the laugher.

"What a fine one!" said the boy, and started up;--started up to slip against a smooth worn
stone, and fall over the rock into the Brook, close by the willow stump; the captive fish held
tightly as he went, but slipping from the falling grasp into its welcome element once more.

The Brook had never felt so hard a blow before. The rain and hail were nothing to this. It
made her splash and leap and swell against the rocky bank, until she could have called with pain.

How still the boy laid on her breast! his head against the willow stump, over which there trickled
a tiny purple stream smaller than the spring-drops from the rock! How richly his golden locks
floated upon the Brook! but how widely strained his bright blue eyes glaring at the sky and
tree-tops above, and how he gasped from his mouth; a mouth so like the one the laborer had
often prest in harvest-time to the Brook, when it was yet circling in the meadow! The Brook
said to herself, "I will put some of my ripples into this mouth, as I have seen the laborer
do; perhaps, like him, it will make his eye sparkle, and send him away again; for he lies heavy
on my breast." And so the ripples went into the opened mouth by dozens; but the blue sky and
tree-tops faded from his eyes, and the lips lost their bright color, and the purple trickling
on the willow stump grew thick and settled into a dark pool.

All night the dead boy lay upon the breast of the Brook; and the fishes played around him,
wondering what it was; and the little insects hopped over him at early sunlight; until the
purple pool dried up, and only left a stain behind.

And soon the Brook heard the hum of voices sounding over the rocks, as she listened from her
solitude; and soon more shadows fell upon her face. Then looking up she saw the laborer once
again; and the Brook rejoiced to think perhaps she was going back again into her pleasant meadow.
He had taken up the stick the boy had used; and was looking down below upon the Brook, as the
face--the lovely face, with more of the old sorrow in it--of the laborer's daughter, raised
itself above his shoulder.

"My brother!--drowned and dead!--and no more to come home alive to share his sister's home."

This the Brook heard, and the fishes swam away into their holes, as piercing, sorrowful human
tones mingled with the passing breeze; and they struck deeper into the willow roots as a pair
of brawny arms readied out and caught the dead boy, and carried him away.

The boy was gone, but the stain was there; and still a weight remained upon the Brook. For
still day after day a shadow fell upon her, and the Brook looking up beheld the lovely but
mournful face of the sorrowing sister, who would sit upon the mossy bank and sigh a sob; kissing
a lock of golden hair the while. And heavier grew the weight on the breast of the Brook, as
scalding tears fell from the rock above upon her face.

And now the Brook again became discontented: and thought of her ambitious sister; and what
might have happened had she followed after on a weary round of travels. The old meadow and
the alders were out of the question now: for the winter was coming on, and the laborer and
the lovely face would no more come to her side; and if they did they would sing no more, but
sigh and sob, and look so sad, as now, upon the mossy rock above.

The summer weather was long over; and the leaves were showering down, and had quite hidden
the clouds and blue sky, and moon and stars from the sight of the Brook. The birds had ceased
to sit and warble on the trees above. The breezes ceased their music, and instead were heard
the hoarse notes of the Autumn wind.

CHAPTER III.

     How the Brooklet and the Mountain-Torrent met.

One day the leaves thickened more than ever over the Brook, and, as she peeped between, she
saw the clouds were heavier and darker than usual. The wind roared louder, and the trees which
grew so high above her bent down their branches until they brushed her face with their trailing.
And soon the rain began to fall in torrents; and it fell and fell all day; all night too. Then
the Brook rejoiced to think the leaves which she had been angry with before for choking her,
protected from the pattering strokes. And soon the Brook heard a sound, like that made by her
ambitious sister in the spring-time;--nearer and nearer it came; through the trees; over the
rocks; tearing, splashing, dashing, and foaming at a direful rate.

"It is my ambitious sister come for me. I'm glad," said the discontented Brook.

"Glad of what?" exclaimed a roaring voice, coming over the rock, and sweeping away the leaves
as if they had been a mere handful; and covering up the ugly purple stain upon the willow stump.
"Ain't I a famous fellow, though? When once my blood is up, can't I go on and frighten people?
Can't I mine out the earth, and sweep along big trees like boats? Can't I tumble down the rocks
that dare to stop my path? Can't I drown men and boys, and all the cattle in the land? I've
swallowed a dozen haystacks for my breakfast, and killed the finest mill-dam over the world
this morning. I said I would as soon as winter came, when they dammed me up last spring, so
many miles away! Oh, such a mass of stone and timber which they put up to fret me in my path;
and what a joke to think this solid mass is scattered through the land since yesternight, and
I am free once more."

"This is not my ambitious sister! no indeed," murmured the Brook.

"Why here is a little Brook," continued the voice, "a dainty, prudish, modest Brook, collected
in a hole to die! Come out, my fair one! I will wed thee, as I have wedded fifty thousand of
your sex in my short day! Come out; no fear; if I am the Mountain-Torrent, I'm not so great
a monster as they say, especially to hurt a modest Brook."

So saying the Mountain-Torrent caught up the shrinking Brook in his powerful embrace, and away
they hurried through the very heart of the forest, miles and miles below.

"This, this is life indeed," said the wedded Brook, once more a wanderer over the land, as
with a thousand other Brooks they travelled on for many hours with impetuous speed, making
dreadful havoc everywhere they touched. Havoc among the farmers and the villagers, who fought
them inch by inch, with sticks and trees, and mounds of stone and clay, all which they licked
up and swallowed, as if they had been pebbles and clumps of leaves. Havoc with the Creeks upon
the route, who dared to scorn their overtures, and wed the Torrent, willingly; for spurning
the placid, humble Creeks one side, they tore along their paths, and vented their fury on the
bridges overhead, bringing down in general destruction, turnpikes and railroads with their
pressing weight of travel.

Havoc to themselves!

For, tearing on so madly, the Mountain-Torrent, after a while, perceived his strength to fail,
and his endurance to give out. But still he hurried on, though feebly, in hopes to meet more
Brooks, perhaps a Lake, and so recruit himself the while. The wedded Brook was wearied too--a
little; not much; at first the Mountain-Torrent had held her tightly in embrace, and carried
her along with scarcely an effort; but as he wearied himself, much of the toil was thrown upon
the Brook, and she was compelled to help herself. On went the Torrent, weaker every step, until
at last he stopped and said:

"Oh wedded Brook! my strength is gone; here must I pause; but you go on. Perhaps before long
I shall meet you again. Go slowly; over the meadows and through the villages make me a path;
I'll know which way you went."

And so they parted; and so the lonely Brook meandered on, and finding out a bubbling spring,
was well recruited for the journey. As she went she heard, across a little knoll, a remembered
voice, and stopped. "I know you, sister Brook," cried out the voice, "go on a bit and turn
towards your left, and there I'll meet you."

And towards the left the lonely Brook met her ambitious sister. She was violent no more; but
sober and sedate; calm as the evening sky reflected from her face.

"I'm the 'ambitious one,'" said she, "ambitious yet, though all my strength has departed. Here
on this spot was I caught and fastened up. They darkened my daylight with that smoking monster
yonder, and killed my peace of mind with such a horrid din and clang, I've not a morsel of
energy left. I'm a factory slave; and so are you, too, for that matter, now! Don't start; it's
not my fault--the way that you were going on, you would have brought up in the Pond below,
where there is yet another smoking monster; only worse than this of mine. The Pond there is
a horrid fellow; poisoning with some horrid purple dye: I've seen him often when I venture
near the dam and look below."

"Sister, take courage," cried the other Brook. "I'm glad I met you. I'm ambitious too, for
I was lately wedded to a glorious fellow, and have been on such a glorious tour: scampering
over all the land. He calls himself the 'Mountain-Torrent.' He is now behind a mile or so,
and may be down upon us before long, to free us from this distressing imprisonment you speak of."

The monster smoked on; and the clanging din about maddened all the air. Huge wheels went racking
and rumbling under huge brick walls. And day by day, a minute at a time, some youthful faces,
pale and shadowy, looked wistfully upon the landscape below. But little knew the monster, and
the clanging din, and racking wheels; and little hoped the shadowy faces of what the Brooklets
plotted at the very factory door.

CHAPTER IV.

     How the Mountain-Torrent freed the Brooks; and their fate.

The frost dropped on the Brooks, and once more blurred the moon and stars, and shut the sunlight
out; and starred a thousand jewels on the mill-dam's brow; and sparkled a myriad icicles from
the rumbling wheels. Far away into the country it spread a white mantle, and froze into the
very heart of all the Ponds and Creeks above. And then the sun came out and shone so brightly;
and then the clouds over-covered it, and the rain came pattering down as of the olden time,
when first its peltings stung the meadow Brook and tempted her to roam. And higher swelled
the Brooks behind their mill-dam prison, and sent more of their life-blood to refresh the poisoned
Pond below.

"I am getting stronger; I am very strong to-day, sister Brook," said the ambitious one. "I
think that with our efforts now united, we can push this mill-dam over and escape."

"Wait for my darling Mountain-Torrent. I hear him on his way; he follows after us. And see
down yonder hill-side how he tears along; and hark! how gladly, as he sees us from his rocky
bed, he roars a song of courage."

And the sister Brooks triumphed together as they saw the keepers of the smoking monster cease
their clanging din, and rush for timbers to uphold the dam; and fly about with tools that were
but baby toys for what was coming now.

"Bring trees; bring stones; bring every thing," cried out the Brooks, as they saw the Mountain-Torrent
come rushing nearer on, sweeping away the fences, and ploughing out a path more fitting for
his travels than the brookside one he kept in view.

"Welcome, my fair ones," roared he, as with heavy timbers in his maw he caught the Brooks again
in strong embrace, and dashing at the smoking monster, knocked him down at once. Down came
the mill-dam with an earthquake noise; the din upon the air was not of clanging tools and hammer
stroke; the wheels were racking and rumbling, not beneath brick walls, but over the rocks and
ruined factories below; while the pale and shadowy faces looked no longer wistfully on the
landscape, but madly rushed about to spread the tale of ruin through the land.

The same old thing! The same old journey over the country. The same old havoc as they went.
But the strength of a thousand Brooks seemed given to the Mountain-Torrent as, looking miles
away, he saw a wide expanse of water fringed with brown and bluish lines. "It is the Ocean,
fair ones," cried he; "when your feeble sights shall see it, bless my power, for at length
we reach a home no art of man can invade to fetter us or bind us down. Ten millions of our
species mingle there; in small harmony it is true, but better fight among ourselves than ever
thus to wage a war with man. Now too approaches the time of our revenge: we'll take his life;
we'll sink his ships; we'll break his boasted wealth into uncounted atoms, and scatter it."

The Brooks trembled in the strong grasp of the Mountain-Torrent to hear the vehemence with
which he spoke these threatening words; but lost their fears in greater astonishment, as now
they neared the ocean waste, fringed with the lines of brown and blue of which he spoke.

"Why, sister, what a noise!" cried one of the Brooks, "our own is not to be heard."

"See what a dreadful wall appears to rise and fall as we approach," answered the other. And
they both clung closer to the embrace of the Torrent as he crossed the beach they reached at
last, and plunged, with sticks and stones and all, upon the wall of foam and sand, which parted
as the Mountain-Torrent and the Brooks joined forces with old Ocean's solemn waste.

In an instant the meadow-born Brook writhed in pain, pressed on by thousands of Mountain-Torrents
every way at once. She foamed and fought, and fought and foamed; under and over, up and below
she plunged, but no escape; one weary work for ages yet to come!

"Revenge once more! Gather and rage! Dash to ruin ships and sailors!" growled a tone which
made the writhing Brook tremble into a million foam-beads, as simultaneously a roaring Tempest
clattered by with thunder and lightning in its train, while a clashing hiss, as of something
rushing madly through the water, bade the Brook--the sea-slave Brook--look up.

No time for thought; for still the tone was heard, "Revenge once more! gather and rage! dash
to ruin ship and sailors!" And still the tempest clattered, and still the hissing of the gallant
ship's prow was heard cleaving the maddened waves. On, on! a dash; a crash; a march of maddening
waves; a stunning tempest howl, and then the hiss was heard no more. But far and wide were
hurried and mashed in one chaotic mass the fragments of the gallant ship.

"How wise he is; how true my Mountain-Torrent spoke," thought the frightened sea-slave Brook,
as the clattering tempest, with thunder and lightning in its train, passed out of sight and
hearing leagues beyond. "And now I'll rest me on this sandy beach, for this ambitious life
is wearisome indeed."

And she nestled closely to a rock, and so crept into grateful rest. But as she lay, she looked
beyond her sandy bed to see the lovely face of her early meadow life, when she was but a humble
Brook. Pale and ghastly it lay upon a rounded stone; the hair floating out like fairy circles
from the marked brow, and on the temple such a purple thickened stain as once had been upon
the willow stump.

The Brook came by her side and watched her gently as she lay. Then going farther out, the Brook
brought strings of sea-weed, and strung them gayly and softly round her form, and watched her
thus again. "Here will I stay," thought the Brook, "and fancy I am still in the sunlight meadow
before I wandered forth into ambitious company. There's nought but trouble and pain crossed
my path since the rainy days of the latest spring-time. Here will I stay, and ever mourn that
I listened to ambitious counselling."

LAST CASE OF THE SUPERNATURAL.

A writer in the January number of Fraser's Magazine, at the conclusion of a tale crammed with
the intensest horrors, presents us with one instance in which the architect of such machinery
was foiled.

When the recital was finished, and the company were well-nigh breathless with its skilfully
cumulative terror, cried Tremenheere--

"Humph! that is rather an uncomfortable story to go to bed upon."

And presently--

"You have been lately in Spain, Melton; what news from Seville?"

"Oh," replied Melton, "you must have heard of Don Juan de Muraña, of terrible memory?"

"Not we," said they.

"One gloomy evening Don Juan de Muraña was returning along the quay where the Golden Tower
looks down upon the Guadalquivir, so lost in thought that it was some time before he perceived
that his cigar had gone out, though he was one of the most determined smokers in Spain. He
looked about him, and beheld on the other side of the broad river an individual whose brilliant
cigar sparkled like a star of the first magnitude at every aspiration.

"Don Juan, who, thanks to the terror which he had inspired, was accustomed to see all the world
obedient to his caprices, shouted to the smoker to come across the river and give him a light.

"The smoker, without taking that trouble, stretched out his arm towards the Don, and so effectually
that it traversed the river like a bridge, and presented to Don Juan a glowing cigar, which
smelt most abominably of sulphur.

"If Don Juan felt something like a rising shudder, he suppressed it, coolly lighted his own
cigar at that of the smoker, and went on his way, singing, Los Toros a la puerta."

"But who was the smoker?"

"Who could he be, but the Prince of Darkness in person, who had laid a wager with Pluto that
he would frighten Don Juan De Muraña, and went back to his place furious at having lost?

"If you would learn more of Don Juan de Muraña, how he went to his own funeral, and died at
last in the odor of sanctity, read that most spirited series of letters, De Paris à Cadix,
wherein Alexander Dumas has surpassed himself. And now, Good night!"

CHAPTER XIV.

Occasionally in the life of man, as in the life of the world--History--or in the course of
a stream towards the sea, come quiet lapses, sunny and calm, reflecting nothing but the still
motionless objects around, or the blue sky and moving clouds above. Often too we find that
this tranquil expanse of silent water follows quickly after some more rapid movement, comes
close upon some spot where a dashing rapid has diversified the scene, or a cataract, in roar
and confusion and sparkling terror, has broken the course of the stream.

Such a still pause, silent of action--if I may use the term--followed the events which I have
related in the last chapter, extending over a period of nearly six months. Nothing happened
worthy of any minute detail. Peace and tranquillity dwelt in the various households which I
have noticed in the course of this story, enlivened in that of Sir Philip Hastings by the gay
spirit of Emily Hastings, although somewhat shadowed by the sterner character of her father;
and in the household of Mrs. Hazleton brightened by the light of hope, and the fair prospect
of success in all her schemes which for a certain time continued to open before her.

Mr. Marlow only spent two days at her house, and then went away to London, but whatever effect
her beauty might have produced upon him, his society, brief as it was, served but to confirm
her feelings towards him, and before he left her, she had made up her mind fully and entirely,
with her characteristic vigor and strength of resolution, that her marriage with Mr. Marlow
was an event which must and should be. There was under this conviction, but not the less strong,
not the less energetic, not the less vehement, for being concealed even from herself--a resolution
that no sacrifice, no fear, no hesitation at any course, should stand in the way of her purpose.
She did not anticipate many difficulties certainly; for Mr. Marlow clearly admired her; but
the resolution was, that if difficulties should arise, she would overcome them at all cost.
Hers was one of those characters of which the world makes its tragedies, having within itself
passions too strong and deep to be frequently excited--as the more profound waters which rise
into mountains when once in motion require a hurricane to still them--together with that energetic
will, that fixed unbending determination, which like the outburst of a torrent from the hills,
sweeps away all before it. But let it be ever remembered that her energies were exerted upon
herself as well as upon others, not in checking passion, not in limiting desire, but in guarding
scrupulously every external appearance, guiding every thought and act with careful art towards
its destined object. Mrs. Hazleton suffered Mr. Marlow to be in London more than a month before
she followed to conclude the mere matters of business between them. It cost her a great struggle
with herself, but in that struggle she was successful, and when at length she went, she had
several interviews with him. Circumstances--that great enemy of schemes, was against her. Sometimes
lawyers were present at their interviews, sometimes impertinent friends; but Mrs. Hazleton
did not much care: she trusted to the time he was speedily about to pass in the country, for
the full effect, and in the meantime took care that nothing but the golden side of the shield
should be presented to her knight.

The continent was at that time open to Englishmen for a short period, and Mr. Marlow expressed
his determination of going to the Court of Versailles for a month or six weeks before he came
down to take possession of Hartwell place, everything now having been settled between them
in regard to business.

Mrs. Hazleton did not like his determination, yet she did not much fear the result; for Mr.
Marlow was preëminently English, and never likely to weal a French woman. Still she resolved
that he should see her under another aspect before he went. She was a great favorite of the
Court of those days; her station, her wealth, her beauty, and her grace rendered her a brightness
and an ornament wherever she came. She was invited to one of the more private though not less
splendid assemblies at the Palace, and she contrived that Mr. Marlow should be invited also,
though neither by nature or habit a courtier. She obtained the invitation for him skilfully,
saying to the Royal Personage of whom she asked it, that as he won a lawsuit against her, she
wished to show him that she bore no malice. He went, and found her the brightest in the brilliant
scene; the great and the proud, the handsome and the gay, all bending down and worshipping,
all striving for a smile, and obtaining it but scantily. She smiled upon him, however, not
sufficiently to attract remark from others, but quite sufficiently to mark a strong distinction
for his own eyes, if he had chosen to use them. He went away to France, and Mrs. Hazleton returned
to the country; the winter passed with her in arranging his house for him; and, in so doing,
she often had to write to him. His replies were always prompt, kind, and grateful; and at length
came the spring, and the pleasant tidings that he was on his way back to his beloved England.

Alas for human expectation! Alas for the gay day-dream of youth--maturity--middle age--old
age--for they have all their daydreams! Every passion which besets man from the cradle to the
grave has its own visionary expectations. Each creature, each animal, from the tiger to the
beetle, has its besetting insect, which preys upon it, gnaws it, irritates it, and so have
all the ages of the soul and of the heart. Alas for human speculation of all kinds! Alas for
every hope and aspiration! for those that are pure and high, but, growing out of earth, bear
within themselves the bitter seeds of disappointment; and those that are dark or low produce
the germ of the most poisonous hybrid, where disappointment is united with remorse.

Happy is the man that expecteth nothing, for verily he shall not be disappointed! It is a quaint
old saying; and could philosophy ever stem the course of God's will, it would be one which,
well followed, might secure to man some greater portion of mortal peace than he possesses.
But to aspire was the ordinance of God; and, viewed rightly, the withering of the flowers upon
each footstep we have taken upwards, is no discouragement; for if we shape our path aright,
there is a wreath of bright blossoms crowning each craggy peak before us, as we ascend to snatch
the garland of immortal glory, placed just beyond the last awful leap of death.

Mrs. Hazleton's aspirations, however, were all earthly. She thought of little beyond this life.
She had never been taught so to think. There are some who are led astray from the path of noble
daring, to others as difficult and more intricate, by some loud shout of passion on the right
or on the left--and seek in vain to return; some who, misled by an apparent similarity in the
course of two paths, although the finger post says, "Thus shalt thou go!" think that the way
so plainly beaten, and so seemingly easy, must surely lead them to the same point. Others again
never learn to read the right path from the wrong (and she was one), while others shut their
eyes to all direction, fix their gaze upon the summit, and strain up, now amidst flowers and
now amidst thorns, till they are cast back from the face of some steep precipice, to perish
in the descent or at the foot.

Mrs. Hazleton's aspirations were all earthly; and that was the secret of her only want in beauty.
That divine form, that resplendent face, beamed with every earthly grace: sparkled forth mind
and intellect in every glance, but they were wanting in soul, in spirit, and in heart. Life
was there, but the life of life, the intense flame of immortal, over-earthly intelligence,
was wanting. She might be the grandest animal that ever was seen, the most bright and capable
intellect that ever dealt with mortal things; but the fine golden chain which leads on the
electric fire from intellectual eminence to spiritual preëminence, from mind to soul, from
earth to heaven, was wanting, or had been broken. Her loveliness none could doubt, her charm
of manner none could deny, her intellectual superiority all admitted, her womanly softness
added a grace beyond them all; but there was one grace wanting--the grace of a high, holy soul,
which, in those who have it, be they fair, be they ugly, pours forth as an emanation from every
look and every action, and surrounds them with a cloud of radiance, faintly imaged by the artist's
glory round a saint.

Alas for human aspirations! Alas for the expectations of this fair frail creature! How eagerly
she thought of Mr. Marlow's return! how she had anticipated their meeting again! How she had
calculated upon all that would be said and done during the next few weeks! The first news she
received was that he had arrived, and with a few servants had taken possession of his new dwelling.
She remained all day in her own house; she ordered no carriage; she took no walk: she tried
to read; she played upon various instruments of music; she thought each instant he would come,
at least for a few minutes, to thank her for all the care she had bestowed to make his habitation
comfortable. The sun gilded the west; the melancholy moon rose up in solemn splendor; the hours
passed by, and he came not.

The next morning, she heard that he had ridden over to the house of Sir Philip Hastings, and
indignation warred with love in her bosom. She thought he must certainly come that day, and
she resolved angrily to upbraid him for his want of courtesy. Luckily, however, for her, he
did not come that day; and a sort of melancholy took possession of her. Luckily, I say; for
when passion takes hold of a scheme it is generally sure to shake it to pieces, and that melancholy
loosens the grasp of passion for a time. The next day he did come, and with an air so easy
and unconscious of offence as almost to provoke her into vehemence again. He knew not what
she felt--he had no idea of how he had been looked for. He was as ignorant that she had ever
thought of him as a husband, as she was that he had ever compared her in his mind to his own
mother.

He talked quietly, indifferently, of his having been over to the house of Sir Philip Hastings,
adding merely--not as an excuse, but as a simple fact--that he had been unable to call there
as he had promised before leaving the country. He dilated upon the kind reception he had met
with from Lady Hastings, for Sir Philip was absent upon business; and he went on to dwell rather
largely upon the exceeding beauty and great grace of Emily Hastings.

Oh how Mrs. Hazleton hated her! It requires but a few drops of poison to envenom a whole well.

He did worse: he proceeded to descant upon her character--upon the blended brightness and deep
thought--upon the high-souled emotions and child-like sparkle of her disposition--upon the
simplicity and complexity, upon the many-sided splendor of her character, which, like the cut
diamond, reflected each ray of light in a thousand varied and dazzling hues. Oh how Mrs. Hazleton
hated her--hated, because for the first time she began to fear. He had spoken to her in praise
of another woman--with loud encomiums too, with a brightened eye, and a look which told her
more than his words. These were signs not to be mistaken. They did not show in the least that
he loved Emily Hastings, and that she knew right well; but they showed that he did not love
her; and there was the poison in the cup.

So painful, so terrible was the sensation, that, with all her mastery over herself, she could
not conceal the agony under which she writhed. She became silent, grave, fell into fits of
thought, which clouded the broad brow, and made the fine-cut lip quiver. Mr. Marlow was surprised
and grieved. He asked himself what could be the matter. Something had evidently made her sorrowful,
and he could not trace the sorrow to its source; for she carefully avoided uttering one word
in depreciation of Emily Hastings. In this she showed no woman's spirit. She could have stabbed
her, had the girl been there in her presence; but she would not scratch her. Petty spite was
too low for her, too small for the character of her mind. Hers was a heart capable of revenge,
and would be satisfied with nothing less.

Mr. Marlow soothed her, spoke to her kindly, tenderly, tried to lead her mind away, to amuse,
to entertain her. Oh, it was all gall and bitterness to her. He might have cursed, abused,
insulted her, without, perhaps--diminishing her love--certainly without inflicting half the
anguish that was caused by his gentle words. It is impossible to tell all the varied emotions
that went on in her heart--at least for me. Shakspeare could have done it, but none less than
Shakspeare. For a moment she knew not whether she loved or hated him; but she soon felt and
knew it was love; and the hate, like lightning striking a rock, and glancing from the solid
stone to rend a sapling, all turned away from him, to fall upon the head of poor unconscious
Emily Hastings.

Though she could not recover from the blow she had received, yet she soon regained command
over herself, conversed, smiled, banished absorbing thoughts, answered calmly, pertinently,
even spoke in her own bright, brilliant way, with a few more figures and ornaments of speech
than usual; for figures are things rather of the head than of the heart, and it was from the
head that she was now speaking.

At length Mr. Marlow took his leave, and for the first time in life she was glad he was gone.

Mrs. Hazleton gave way to no burst of passion: she shed not a tear; she uttered no exclamation.
That which was within her heart, was too intense for any such ordinary expression. She seated
herself at a table, leaned her head upon her hand, and fixed her eyes upon one bright spot
in the marquetry. There she sat for more than an entire hour, without a motion, and in the
meantime what were the thoughts that passed through her brain? We have shown the feelings of
her heart enough.

She formed plans; she determined her course; she looked around for means. Various persons suggested
themselves to her mind as instruments. The three women, I have mentioned in a preceding chapter--the
good sort of friends. But it was an agent she wanted, not a confidant. No, no, Mrs. Hazleton
knew better than to have a confidant. She was her own best council-keeper, and she knew it.
Nevertheless, these good ladies might serve to act in subordinate parts, and she assigned to
each of them their position in her scheme with wonderful accuracy and skill. As she did so,
however, she remembered that it was by the advice of Mrs. Warmington that she had brought Mr.
Marlow to Hartwell Place; and in her heart's secret chamber she gave her fair friend a goodly
benediction. She resolved to use her nevertheless--to use her as far as she could be serviceable;
and she forgot not that she herself had been art and part in the scheme that had failed. She
was not one to shelter herself from blame by casting the whole storm of disappointment upon
another. She took her own full share. "If she was a fool so to advise," said Mrs. Hazleton,
"'twas a greater fool to follow her advice."

She then turned to seek for the agent. No name presented itself but that of Shanks, the attorney;
and she smiled bitterly when she thought of him. She recollected that Sir Philip Hastings had
thrown him head-foremost down the steps of the terrace, and that was very satisfactory to her;
for, although Mr. Shanks was a man who sometimes bore injuries very meekly, he never forgot them.

Nevertheless, she had somewhat a difficult part to play, for most agents have a desire of becoming
confidants also, and that Mrs. Hazleton determined her attorney should not be. The task was
to insinuate her purposes rather than to speak them--to act, without betraying the motive of
action--to make another act, without committing herself by giving directions.

Nevertheless, Mrs. Hazleton arranged it all to her own satisfaction; and as she did so, amongst
the apparently extinct ashes of former schemes, one small spark of hope began to glow, giving
promise for the time to come. What did she propose? At first, nothing more than to drive Sir
Philip Hastings and his family from the country, mingling the gratification of personal hatred
with efforts for the accomplishment of her own purposes. It was a bold attempt, but Mrs. Hazleton
had her plan; and she sat down and wrote for Mr. Shanks, the attorney.

CHAPTER XV.

Decorum came in with the house of Hanover. I know not whether men and women in England were
more virtuous before--I think not--but they certainly were more frank in both their virtues
and their vices. There were fewer of those vices of conventionality thrown around the human
heart--fewer I mean to say of those cold restraints, those gilded chains of society, which,
like the ornaments that ladies wear upon their necks and arms, seem like fetters; but, I fear
me, restrain but little human action, curb not passion, and are to the strong will but as the
green rushes round the limbs of the Hebrew giant. Decorum came into England with the house
of Hanover; but I am speaking of a period before that, when ladies were less fearful of the
tongue of scandal, when scandal itself was fearful of assailing virtue, when honesty of purpose
and purity of heart could walk free in the broad day, and men did not venture to suppose evil
acts perpetrated whenever, by a possibility, they could be committed.

Emily Hastings walked quietly along by the side of Mr. Marlow, through her father's park. There
was no one with him, no keen matron's ear to listen to and weigh their words, no brother to
pretend to accompany them, and either feel himself weary with the task or lighten it by seeking
his own amusement apart. They were alone together, and they talked without restraint. Ye gods,
how they did talk! The dear girl was in one of her brightest, gayest moods. There was nothing
that did not move her fancy or become a servant to it. The clouds as they shot across the sky,
the blue fixed hills in the distance, the red and yellow and green coloring of the young budding
oaks, the dancing of The stream, the song of the bird, the whisper of the wind, the misty spring
light which spread over the morning distance, all had illustrations for her thoughts. It seemed
that day as if she could not speak without a figure--as if she revelled in the flowers of imagination,
like a child tossing about the new mown grass in a hay-field. And he, with joyous sport, took
pleasure in furnishing her at every moment with new material for the bounding play of fancy.

They had not known each other long; but there was something in the young man's manner--nay,
let me go farther--in his character, which invited confidence, which besought the hearts around
to throw off all strange disguise, and promised that he would take no base advantage of their
openness. That something was perhaps his earnestness: one felt that he was true in all he said
or did or looked: that his words were but his spoken feelings: his countenance a paper on which
the heart at once recorded its sensations. But let me not be mistaken. Do not let it be supposed
that when I say he was earnest, I mean that he was even grave. Oh no! Earnestness can exist
as well in the merriest as in the soberest heart. One can be as earnest, as truthful, even
as eager in joy or sport, as in sorrow or sternness. But he was earnest in all things, and
it was this earnestness which probably found a way for him to so many dissimilar hearts.

Emily knew not at all what it was doing with hers; but she felt that he was one before whom
she had no need to hide a thought: that if she were gay, she might be gay in safety: that if
she were inclined to muse, she might muse on in peace.

Onward they walked, talking of every thing on earth but love. It was in the thoughts of neither.
Emily knew nothing about it: the tranquil expanse of life had never for her been even rippled
by the wing of passion. Marlow might know more; but for the time he was lost in the enjoyment
of the moment. The little enemy might be carrying on the war against the fortress of each unconscious
bosom; but if so, it was by the silent sap and mine, more potent far than the fierce assault
or thundering cannonade--at least in this sort of warfare.

They were wending their way towards a gate, at the very extreme limit of the park, which opened
upon a path leading by a much shorter way to Mr. Marlow's own dwelling than the road he usually
pursued. He had that morning come to spend but an hour at the house of Sir Philip Hastings,
and he had an engagement at his own house at noon. He had spent two hours instead of one with
Emily and her mother, and therefore short paths were preferable to long ones for his purpose,
Emily had offered to show him the way to the gate, and her company was sure to shorten the
road, though it might lengthen the time it took to travel.

Now in describing the park of Sir Philip Hastings, I have said that there was a wide open space
around the mansion; but I have also said, that at some distance the trees gathered thick and
sombre. Those nearest the house gathered together in clumps, confusing the eye in a wilderness
of hawthorns, and bushes, and evergreen oaks, while beyond appeared a dense mass of wood; and,
through the scattered tufts of trees and thick woodland at the extreme of the park ran several
paths traced by deer, and park-keepers, and country folk. Thus for various reasons some guidance
was needful to Marlow on his way, and for more reasons still he was well pleased that the guide
should be Emily Hastings. In the course of their walk, amongst many other subjects they spoke
of Mrs. Hazleton, and Marlow expatiated warmly on her beauty, and grace, and kindness of heart.
How different was the effect of all this upon Emily Hastings from that which his words in her
praise had produced upon her of whom he spoke! Emily's heart was free. Emily had no schemes,
no plans, no purposes. She knew not that there was one feeling in her bosom with which praise
of Mrs. Hazleton could ever jar. She loved her well. Such eyes as hers are not practised in
seeing into darkness. She had divined the Italian singer--perhaps by instinct, perhaps by some
distinct trait, which occasionally will betray the most wily. But Mrs. Hazleton was a fellow-woman--a
woman of great brightness and many fine qualities. Neither had she any superficial defects
to indicate a baser metal or a harder within. If she was not all gold, she was doubly gilt.

Emily praised her too, warmed with the theme; and eagerly exclaimed, "She always seems to me
like one of those dames of fairy tales, upon whom some enchanter has bestowed a charm that
no one can resist. It is not her beauty; for I feel the same when I hear her voice and shut
my eyes. It is not her conversation; for I feel the same when I look at her and she is silent.
It seems to breathe from her presence like the odor of a flower. It is the same when she is
grave as when she is gay."

"Aye, and when she is melancholy," replied Marlow. "I never felt it more powerfully than a
few days ago when I spent an hour with her, and she was not only grave but sad."

"Melancholy!" exclaimed Emily. "I never saw her so. Grave I have seen her--thoughtful, silent--but
never sad; and I do not know that she has not seemed more charming to me in those grave, stiller
moods, than in more cheerful ones. Do you know that in looking at the beautiful statues which
I have seen in London, I have often thought they might lose half their charm if they would
move and speak? Thus, too, with Mrs. Hazleton; she seems to me even more lovely, more full
of grace, in perfect stillness than at any other time. My father," she added, after a moment's
pause, "is the only one who in her presence seems spell-proof."

Her words threw Marlow into a momentary fit of thought. "Why," he asked himself, "was Sir Philip
Hastings spell-proof when all others were charmed?"

Men have a habit of depending much upon men's judgment, whether justly or unjustly I will not
stop to inquire. They rely less upon woman's judgment in such matters; and yet women are amongst
the keenest discerners--when they are unbiassed by passion. But are they often so? Perhaps
it is from a conviction that men judge less frequently from impulse, decide more generally
from cause, that this presumption of their accuracy exists. Woman--perhaps from seclusion,
perhaps from nature--is more a creature of instincts than man. They are given her for defence
where reason would act too slowly; and where they do act strongly, they are almost invariably
right. Man goes through the slower process, and naturally relies more firmly on the result;
for reason demonstrates where instinct leads blindfold. Marlow judged Sir Philip Hastings by
himself, and fancied that he must have some cause for being spell-proof against the fascinations
of Mrs. Hazleton. This roused the first doubt in his mind as to her being all that she seemed.
He repelled the doubt as injurious, but it returned from time to time in after days, and at
length gave him a clue to an intricate labyrinth.

The walk came to an end, too soon he thought. Emily pointed out the gate as soon as it appeared
in sight, shook hands with him and returned homeward. He thought more of her after they had
parted, than when she was with him. There are times when the most thoughtful do not think--when
they enjoy. But now, every word, every look of her who had just left him, came back to memory.
Not that he would admit to himself that there was the least touch of love in his feelings.
Oh no! He had known her too short a time for such a serious passion as love to have any thing
to do with his sensations. He only thought of her--mused--pondered--recalled all she had said
and done, because she was so unlike any thing he had seen or heard of before--a something new--a
something to be studied.

She was but a girl--a mere child, he said; and yet there was something more than childish grace
in that light, but rounded form, where beauty was more than budding, but not quite blossomed,
like a moss-rose in its loveliest state of loveliness. And her mind too; there was nothing
childish in her thoughts except their playfulness. The morning dew-drops had not yet exhaled;
but the day-star of the mind was well up in the sky.

She was one of those, on whom it is dangerous for a man afraid of love to meditate too long.
She was one the effect of whose looks and words is not evanescent. That of mere beauty passes
away. How many a face do we see and think it the loveliest in the world; yet shut the eyes
an hour after, and try to recall the features--to paint them to the mind's eye. You cannot.
But there are others that link themselves with every feeling of the heart, that twine themselves
with constantly recurring thoughts, that never can be effaced--never forgotten--on which age
or time, disease or death, may do its work without effecting one change in the reality embalmed
in memory. Destroy the die, break the mould, you may; but the medal and the cast remain. Had
Marlow lived a hundred years--had he never seen Emily Hastings again, not one line of her bright
face, not one speaking look, would have passed from his memory. He could have painted a portrait
of her had he been an artist. Did you ever gaze long at the sun, trying your eyes against the
eagle's? If so, you have had the bright orb floating before your eyes the whole day after.
And so it was with Marlow: throughout the long hours that followed, he had Emily Hastings ever
before him. But yet he did not love her. Oh dear no, not in the least. Love he thought was
very different from mere admiration. It was a plant of slower growth. He was no believer in
love at first sight. He was an infidel as to Romeo and Juliet, and he had firmly resolved if
ever he did fall in love, it should be done cautiously.

Poor man! he little knew how deep he was in already.

In the meanwhile, Emily walked onward. She was heart-whole at least. She had never dreamed
of love. It had not been one of her studies. Her father had never presented the idea to her.
Her mother had often talked of marriage, and marriages good and bad; but always put them in
the light of alliances--compacts--negotiated treaties. Although Lady Hastings knew what love
is as well as any one, and had felt it as deeply, yet she did not wish her daughter to be as
romantic as she had been, and therefore the subject was avoided. Emily thought a good deal
of Mr. Marlow, it is true. She thought him handsome, graceful, winning--one of the pleasantest
companions she had ever known. She liked him better than any one she had ever seen; and his
words rang in her ears long after they were spoken. But even imagination, wicked spinner of
golden threads as she is, never drew one link between his fate and hers. The time had not yet
come, if it was to come.

She walked on, however, through the wood; and just when she was emerging from the thicker part
into the clumps and scattered trees, she saw a stranger before her, leaning against the stump
of an old hawthorn, and seeming to suffer pain. He was young, handsome, well-dressed, and there
was a gun lying at his feet. But as Emily drew nearer, she saw blood slowly trickling from
his arm, and falling on the gray sand of the path.

She was not one to suffer shyness to curb humanity; and she exclaimed at once, with a look
of alarm, "I am afraid you are hurt, sir. Had you not better come up to the house?"

The young man looked at her, fainted, and answered in a low tone, "The gun has gone off, caught
by a branch, and has shattered my arm. I thought I could reach the cottage by the park gates,
but I feel faint."

"Stay, stay a moment," cried Emily, "I will run to the hall and bring assistance--people to
assist you upon a carriage."

"No, no!" answered the stranger quickly, "I cannot go there--I will not go there! The cottage
is nearer," he continued more calmly; "I think with a little help I could reach it, if I could
staunch the blood."

"Let me try," exclaimed Emily; and with ready zeal, she tied her handkerchief round his arm,
not without a shaking hand indeed, but with firmness and some skill.

"Now lean upon me," she said, when she had done; "the cottage is indeed nearer, but you would
have better tendance if you could reach the hall."

"No, no, the cottage," replied the stranger, "I shall do well there."

The cottage was perhaps two hundred yards nearer to the spot on which they stood than the hall;
but there was an eagerness about the young man's refusal to go to the latter, which Emily remarked.
Suspicion indeed was alive to her mind; but those were days when laws concerning game, which
have every year been becoming less and less strict, were hardly less severe than in the time
of William Rufus. Every day, in the country life which she led, she heard some tale of poaching
or its punishment. The stranger had a gun with him; she had found him in her father's park;
he was unwilling even in suffering and need of help to go up to the hall for succor; and she
could not but fancy that for some frolic, perhaps some jest, or some wild whim, he had been
trespassing upon the manor in pursuit of game. That he was an ordinary poacher she could not
suppose; his dress, his appearance forbade such a supposition.

But there was something more.

In the young man's face--more in its expression than its features perhaps--more in certain
marking lines and sudden glances than in the general whole--there was something familiar to
her--something that seemed akin to her. He was handsomer than her father; of a more perfect
though less lofty character of beauty; and yet there was a strange likeness, not constant,
but flashing occasionally upon her brow, in what, when, she could hardly determine.

It roused another sort of sympathy from any she had felt before; and once more she asked him
to go up to the hall.

"If you have been taking your sport," she said, "where perhaps you ought not, I am sure my
father will look over it without a word, when he sees how you are hurt. Although people sometimes
think he is stern and severe, that is all a mistake. He is kind and gentle, I assure you, when
he does not feel that duty requires him to be rigid."

The stranger gave a quick start, and replied in a tone which would have been haughty and fierce,
had not weakness subdued it, "I have been shooting only where I have a right to shoot. But
I will not go up to the hall, till--but I dare say I can get down to the cottage without help,
Mistress Emily. I have been accustomed to do without help in the world;" and he withdrew his
arm from that which supported him. The next moment, however, he tottered, and seemed ready
to fall, and Emily again hurried to help him. There were no more words spoken. She thought
his manner somewhat uncivil; she would not leave him, and the necessity for her kindness was
soon apparent. Ere they were within a hundred yards of the cottage, he sunk slowly down. His
face grew pale and death-like, and his eyes closed faintly as he lay upon the turf. Emily ran
on like lightning to the cottage, and called out the old man who lived there. The old man called
his son from the little garden, and with his and other help, carried the fainting man in.

"Ay, master John, master John," exclaimed the old cottager, as he laid him in his own bed;
"one of your wild pranks, I warrant!"

His wife, his son, and he himself tended the young man with care; and a young boy was sent
off for a surgeon.

Emily did not know what to do; but compassion kept her in the cottage till the stranger recovered
his consciousness, and then after inquiring how he felt, she was about to withdraw, intending
to send down further aid from the hall. But the stranger beckoned her faintly to come nearer,
and said in tones of real gratitude, "Thank you a thousand times, Mistress Emily; I never thought
to need such kindness at your hands. But now do me another, and say not a word to any one at
the mansion of what has happened. It will be better for me, for you, for your father, that
you should not speak of this business."

"Do not! do not! Mistress Emily!" cried the old man, who was standing near. "It will only make
mischief and bring about evil."

He spoke evidently under strong apprehension, and Emily was much surprised, both to find that
one quite a stranger to her knew her at once, and to find the old cottager, a long dependant
upon her family, second so eagerly his strange injunction.

"I will say nothing unless questions are asked me," she replied; "then of course I must tell
the truth."

"Better not," replied the young man gloomily.

"I cannot speak falsely," replied the beautiful girl, "I cannot deal doubly with my parents
or any one," and she was turning away.

But the stranger besought her to stop one moment, and said, "I have not strength to explain
all now; but I shall see you again, and then I will tell you why I have spoken as you think
strangely. I shall see you again. In common charity you will come to ask if I am alive or dead.
If you knew how near we are to each other, I am sure you would promise!"

"I can make no such promise," replied Emily; but the old cottager seemed eager to end the interview;
and speaking for her, he exclaimed, "Oh, she will come, I am sure, Mistress Emily will come;"
and hurried her away, seeing her back to the little gate in the park wall.

CHAPTER XVI.

Mrs. Hazleton found Mr. Shanks, the attorney, the most difficult person to deal with whom she
had ever met in her life. She had remarked that he was keen, active, intelligent, unscrupulous,
confident in his own powers, bold as a lion in the wars of quill, parchment, and red tape;
without fear, without hesitation, without remorse. There was nothing that he scrupled to do,
nothing that he ever repented having done. She had fancied that the only difficulty which she
could have to encounter was that of concealing from him, at least in a degree, the ultimate
objects and designs which she herself had in view.

So shrewd people often deceive themselves as to the character of other shrewd people. The difficulty
was quite different. It was a peculiar sort of stolidity on the part of Mr. Shanks, for which
she was utterly unprepared.

Now the attorney was ready to do any thing on earth which his fair patroness wished. He would
have perilled his name on the roll in her service; and was only eager to understand what were
her desires, even without giving her the trouble of explaining them. Moreover, there was no
point of law or equity, no manner of roguery or chicanery, no object of avarice, covetousness,
or ambition, which he could not have comprehended at once. They were things within his own
ken and scope, to which the intellect and resources of his mind were always open. But to other
passions, to deeper, more remote motives and emotions, Mr. Shanks was as stolid as a door-post.
It required to hew a way as it were to his perceptions, to tunnel his mind for the passage
of a new conception.

The only passion which afforded the slightest cranny of an opening was revenge; and after having
tried a dozen other ways of making him comprehend what she wished without committing herself,
Mrs. Hazleton got him to understand that she thought Sir Philip Hastings had injured--at all
events, that he had offended--her, and that she sought vengeance. From that moment all was
easy. Mr. Shanks could understand the feeling, though not its extent. He would himself have
given ten pounds out of his own pocket--the largest sum he had ever given in life for any thing
but an advantage--to be revenged upon the same man for the insult he had received; and he could
perceive that Mrs. Hazleton would go much further, without, indeed, being able to conceive,
or even dream of, the extent to which she was prepared to go.

However, when he had once got the clue, he was prepared to run along the road with all celerity;
and now she found him every thing she had expected. He was a man copious in resources, prolific
of schemes. His imagination had exercised itself through life in devising crooked paths; but
in this instance the road was straight-forward before him. He would rather it had been tortuous,
it is true; but for the sake of his dear lady he was ready to follow even a plain path, and
he explained to her that Sir Philip Hastings stood in a somewhat dangerous position.

He was proceeding to enter into the details, but Mrs. Hazleton interrupted him, and, to his
surprise, not only told him, but showed him, that she knew all the particulars.

"The only question is, Mr. Shanks," she said, "can you prove the marriage of his elder brother
to this woman before the birth of the child?"

"We think we can, madam," replied the attorney, "we think we can. There is a very strong letter,
and there has been evidently----"

He paused and hesitated, and Mrs. Hazleton demanded, "There has been what, Mr. Shanks?"

"There has been evidently a leaf torn out of the register," replied the lawyer.

There was something in his manner which made the lady gaze keenly in his face; but she would
ask no questions on that subject, and she merely said, "Then why has not the case gone on,
as it was put in your hands six months ago?"

"Why, you see, my dear madam," replied Shanks, "law is at best uncertain. One wants two or
three great lawyers to make a case. Money was short; John and his mother had spent all last
year's annuity. Barristers won't plead without fees, and besides----"

He paused again, but an impatient gesture from the lady urged him on. "Besides," he said, "I
had devised a little scheme, which, of course, I shall abandon now, for marrying him to Mistress
Emily Hastings. He is a very handsome young fellow, and----"

"I have seen him," said Mrs. Hazleton thoughtfully, "but why should you abandon this scheme,
Mr. Shanks? It seems to me by no means a bad one."

The poor lawyer was now all at sea again and fancied himself as wide of the lady's aim as ever.

Mrs. Hazleton suffered him to remain in this dull suspense for some time. Wrapped up in her
own thoughts, and busy with her own calculations, she suffered several minutes to elapse without
adding a word to that which had so much surprised the attorney. Then, however, she said, in
a meditative tone, "There is only one way by which it can be accomplished. If you allow it
to be conducted in a formal manner, you will fail utterly. Sir Philip will never consent. She
will never even yield."

"But if Sir Philip is made to see that it will save him a tremendous lawsuit, and perhaps his
whole estate," suggested Mr. Shanks.

"He will resist the more firmly," answered the lady; "if it saved his life, he would reject
it with scorn--no! But there is a way. If you can persuade her--if you can show her that her
father's safety, his position in life, depends upon her conduct, perhaps you may bring her
by degrees to consent to a private marriage. She is young, inexperienced, enthusiastic, romantic.
She loves her father devotedly, and would make any sacrifice for him."

"No great sacrifice, I should think, madam," replied Mr. Shanks, "to marry a handsome young
man who has a just claim to a large fortune."

"That is as people may judge," replied the lady; "but at all events this claim gives us a hold
upon her which we must not fail to use, and that directly. I will contrive means of bringing
them together. I will make opportunity for the lad, but you must instruct him how to use it
properly. All I can do is to co-operate without appearing."

"But, my dear madam, I really do not fully understand," said Mr. Shanks. "I had a fancy--a
sort of imagination like, that you wished--that you desired----"

He hesitated; but Mrs. Hazleton would not help him by a single word, and at last he added,
"I had a fancy that you wished this suit to go on against Sir Philip Hastings, and now--but
that does not matter--only do you really wish to bring it all to an end, to settle it by a
marriage between John and Mistress Emily?'

"That will be the pleasantest, the easiest way of settling it, sir," replied Mrs. Hazleton,
coolly; "and I do not at all desire to injure, but rather to serve Sir Philip and his family."

That was false, for though to marry Emily Hastings to any one but Mr. Marlow was what the lady
did very sincerely desire; yet there was a long account to be settled with Sir Philip Hastings
which could not well be discharged without a certain amount of injury to him and his. The lady
was well aware, too, that she had told a lie, and moreover that it was one which Mr. Shanks
was not at all likely to believe. Perhaps even she did not quite wish him to believe it, and
at all events she knew that her actions must soon give it contradiction. But men make strange
distinctions between speech and action, not to be accounted for without long investigation
and disquisition. There are cases where people shrink from defining in words their purposes,
or giving voice to their feelings, even when they are prepared by acts to stamp them for eternity.
There are cases where men do acts which they dare not cover by a lie.

Mrs. Hazleton sought for no less than the ruin of Sir Philip Hastings; she had determined it
in her own heart, and yet she would not own it to her agent--perhaps she would not own it to
herself. There is a dark secret chamber in the breast of every one, at the door of which the
eyes of the spirit are blindfolded, that it may not see the things to which it is consenting.
Conscience records them silently, and sooner or later her book is to be opened; it may be in
this world: it may be in the next: but for the time that book is in the keeping of passion,
who rarely suffers the pages to be seen till purpose has been ratified by act, and remorse
stands ready to pronounce the doom.

There was a pause after Mrs. Hazleton had spoken, for the attorney was busy also with thoughts
he wished to utter, yet dared not speak. The first prospect of a lawsuit--the only sort of
the picturesque in which he could find pleasure--a long, intricate, expensive lawsuit, was
fading before his eyes as if a mist were coming over the scene. Where were his consultations,
his letters, his briefs, his pleas, his rejoinders, his demurrers, his appeals? Where were
the fees, the bright golden fees? True, in the hopelessness of his young client's fortunes,
he had urged the marriage with a proviso, that if it took place by his skilful management,
a handsome bonus was to be his share of the spoil. But then Mrs. Hazleton's first communication
had raised brighter hopes, had put him more in his own element, had opened to him a scene of
achievements as glorious to his notions as those of the listed field to knights of old; and
now all was vanishing away. Yet he did not venture to tell her how much he was disappointed,
still less to show her why and how.

It was the lady who spoke first; and she did so in as calm, deliberate, passionless a tone
as if she had been devising the fashion of a new Mantua.

"It may be as well, Mr. Shanks," she said, "in order to produce the effect we wish upon dear
Emily's mind"--dear Emily!--"to commence the suit against Sir Philip--I mean to take those
first steps which may create some alarm. I cannot of course judge what they ought to be, but
you must know; and if not, you must seek advice from counsel learned in the law. You understand
what I mean, doubtless."

"Oh, certainly, madam, certainly," replied Mr. Shanks, with a profound sigh of relief. "First
steps commit us to nothing: but they must be devised cautiously, and I am very much afraid
that--that----"

"Afraid of what, sir?" asked Mrs. Hazleton, in a tone somewhat stern.

"Only that the expense will be greater than my young client can afford," answered the lawyer,
seeing that he must come to the point.

"Let not that stand in the way," said Mrs. Hazleton at once; "I will supply the means. What
will be the expense?"

"Would you object to say five hundred pounds?" asked the lawyer, cautiously.

"A thousand," replied the lady, with a slight inclination of the head; and then, weary of circumlocution,
she added in a bolder tone than she had yet used, "only remember, sir, that what is done must
be done effectually; no mistakes, no errors, no flaws! See that you use all your eyes--see
that you bend every nerve to the task. I will have no procrastination for the sake of fresh
fees--nothing omitted one day to be remembered the next--no blunders to be corrected after
long delays and longer correspondence. I know you lawyers and your ways right well; and if
I find that for the sake of swelling a bill to the bursting, you attempt to procrastinate,
the cause will be taken at once from your hands and placed in those who will do their work
more speedily. You can practise those tricks upon those who are more or less in your power;
but you shall not play them upon me."

"I declare, my dear madam, I can assure you," said Mr. Shanks; but Mrs. Hazleton cut him short.
"There, there," she said, waving her fair hand, "do not declare--do not assure me of any thing.
Let your actions speak, Mr. Shanks. I am too much accustomed to declarations and assurances
to set much value upon them. Now tell me, but in as few words and with as few cant terms as
possible, what are the chances of success in this suit? How does the young man's case really
stand?"

Mr. Shanks would gladly have been excused such explanations. He never liked to speak clearly
upon such delicate questions, but he would not venture to refuse any demand of Mrs. Hazleton's,
and therefore he began with a circumlocution in regard to the uncertainty of law, and to the
impossibility of giving any exact assurances of success.

The lady would not be driven from her point, however. "That is not what I sought to know,"
she said. "I am as well aware of the law's uncertainty--of its iniquity, as you. But I ask
you what grounds you have to go upon? Were they ever really married? Is this son legitimate?"

"The lady says they were married," replied Mr. Shanks cautiously, "and I have good hope we
can prove the legitimacy. There is a letter in which the late Mr. John Hastings calls her 'my
dear little wife;' and then there is clearly a leaf torn out of the marriage register about
that very time."

Mr. Shanks spoke the last words slowly and with some hesitation; but after a pause he went
on more boldly and rapidly. "Then we have a deposition of the old woman Danby that they were
married. This is clear and precise," he continued with a grin: "she wanted to put in something
about 'in the eyes of God,' but I left that out as beside the question; and she did the swearing
very well. She might have broken down under cross-examination, it is true; and therefore it
was well to put off the trial till she was gone. We can prove, moreover, that the late Sir
John always paid an annuity to both mother and child, in order to make them keep secret--nay
more, that he bribed the old woman Danby. This is our strong point; but it is beyond doubt--I
can prove it, madam--I can prove it. All I fear is the mother; she is weak--very weak; I wish
to heaven she were out of the way till the trial is over."

"Send her out of the way," cried Mrs. Hazleton, decidedly; "send her to France;" and then she
added, with a bitter smile, "she may still figure amongst the beauties of Versailles."

"But she will not go," replied Mr. Shanks. "Madam, she will not go. I hinted at such a step--mentioned
Cornwall or Ireland--any where she could be concealed."

"Cornwall or Ireland!" exclaimed Mrs. Hazleton, "of course she would not go. Why did not you
propose Africa or the plantations? She shall go, Mr. Shanks. Leave her to me. She shall go.
And now, set to work at once--immediately, I say--this very day. Send the youth to-morrow,
and let him bring me word that some step is taken. I will instruct him how to act, while you
deal with the law."

Mr. Shanks promised to obey, and retired overawed by all he had seen and heard. There had,
it is true, been no vehement demonstration of passion; no fierce blaze; no violent flash; but
there had been indications enough to show the man of law all that was raging within. It had
been for him like gazing at a fine building on fire at that period of the conflagration where
dense smoke and heavy darkness brood over the fearful scene, while dull, suddenly-smothered
flashes break across the gloom, and tell how terrible will be the flame when it does burst
freely forth.

He had never known Mrs. Hazleton before--he had never comprehended her fully. But now he knew
her--now, though perhaps the depths were still unfathomable to his eyes, he felt that there
was a strong commanding will within that beautiful form which would bear no trifling. He had
often treated her with easy lightness--with no want of apparent respect indeed--but with the
persuasions and arguments such as men of business often address to women as beings inferior
to themselves either in intellect or experience. Now Mr. Shanks wondered how he had escaped
so long and so well, and he resolved that for the future his conduct should be very different.

Mrs. Hazleton, when he left her, sat down to rest--yes, to rest; for she was very weary. There
had been the fatiguing strife of strong passions in the heart--hopes--expectations--schemes-contrivances;
and, above all, there had been a wrestling with herself to deal calmly and softly where she
felt fiercely. It had exhausted her; and for some minutes she sat listlessly, with her eyes
half shut, like one utterly tired out. Ere a quarter of an hour had passed, wheels rolled up
to the door; a carriage-step was let down, and there was a foot-fall in the hall.

"Dear Mrs. Warmington, delighted to see you!" said Mrs. Hazleton, with a smile sweet and gentle
as the dawn of a summer morning.

CHAPTER XVII.

Circumstance will always have its finger in the pie with the best-laid schemes; but it does
not always happen that thereby the pie is spoiled. On the contrary, circumstance is sometimes
a very powerful auxiliary, and it happened so in the present instance with the arrangements
of Mrs. Hazleton. Before that lady could bring any part of her scheme for introducing Emily
to the man whom she intended to drive her into taking as a husband, to bear, the introduction
had already taken place, as we have seen, by an accident.

It was likely, indeed, to go no further; for Emily thought over what had occurred, before she
gave way to her native kindness of heart. She remembered how tenacious all country gentlemen
of that day were of their sporting rights, and especially of what she had often heard her father
declare, that he looked upon any body who took his game off his property, according to every
principle of equity and justice, as no better than a common robber.

"If the only excuse be that it is more exposed to depredation than other property," said Sir
Philip, "it only shows that the plunderer of it is a coward as well as a villain, and should
be punished the more severely." Such, and many such speeches she had heard from her father
at various times, and it became a case of conscience, which puzzled the poor girl much, whether
she ought or ought not to have promised not to mention what had occurred in the park. She loved
no concealment, and nothing would have induced her to tell a falsehood; but she knew that if
she mentioned the facts, especially while the young man whom she had seen crossing the park
with a gun lay wounded at the cottage, great evil might have resulted; and though she somewhat
reproached herself for rashly giving her word, she would not break it when given.

As to seeing him again, however--as to visiting him at the cottage, even to inquire after his
health, when he had refused all aid from her father's house, that was an act she never dreamed
of. His last words, indeed, had puzzled her; and there was something in his face, too, which
set her fancy wandering. It was not exactly what she liked; but yet there was a resemblance,
she thought, to some one she knew and was attached to. It could not be to her father, she said
to herself, and yet her father's face recurred to her mind more frequently than any other when
she thought of that of the young man she had seen; and from that fact a sort of prepossession
in the youth's favor took possession of her, making her long to know who he really was.

For some days Emily did not go near the cottage, but at length she ventured on the road which
passed it--not without a hope, indeed, that she might meet one of the old people who tenanted
it, and have an opportunity of inquiring after his health--but certainly not, as some good-natured
reader may suppose, with any expectation of seeing him herself. As she approached, however,
she perceived him sitting on a bench at the cottage-door, and, by a natural impulse, she turned
at once into another path, which led back by a way nearly as short to the hall. The young man
instantly rose, and followed her, addressing her by name, in a voice still weak, in truth,
but too loud for her not to hear, or to affect not to hear.

She paused, rather provoked than otherwise, and slightly inclined her head, while the young
man approached, with every appearance of respect, and thanked her for the assistance she had
rendered him.

He had had his lesson in the mean time, and he played his part not amiss. All coarse swagger,
all vulgar assumption was gone from his manner; and referring himself to some words he had
spoken when last they had met, he said: "Pardon me, Miss Hastings, for what I said some days
ago, which might seem both strange and mysterious, and for pressing to see you again; but at
that time I was faint with loss of blood, and knew not how this might end. I wished to tell
you something I thought you ought to hear; but now I am better; and I will find a more fitting
opportunity ere long."

"It will be better to say any thing you think fit to my father," replied Emily. "I am not accustomed
to deal with any matters of importance; and any thing of so much moment as you seem to think
this is, would, of course, be told by me to him."

"I think not," replied the other, with a mysterious smile; "but of that you will judge when
you have heard all I have to say. Your father is the last person to whom I would mention it
myself, because I believe, notwithstanding all his ability, he is the last person who would
judge sanely of it, as he would of most other matters; but, of course, you will speak of it
or not, as you think proper. At present," he added, "I am too weak to attempt the detail, even
if I could venture to detain you here. I only wished to return you my best thanks, and assure
you of my gratitude," and bowing low, he left her to pursue her way homeward.

Emily went on musing. No woman's breast is without curiosity--nor any man's, either--and she
asked herself what could be the meaning of the stranger's words, at least a dozen times. What
could he have to tell her, and why was there so much mystery? She did not like mystery, however;
and though she felt interested in the young man--felt pity, in fact--yet it was by no means
the interest that leads to, nor the pity which is akin to love. On the contrary, she liked
him less than the first time she saw him. There was a certain degree of cunning in his mysterious
smile, a look of self-confidence, almost of triumph in his face, which, in spite of his respectful
demeanor, did not please her.

Emily's father was absent from home at this time; but he returned two or three days after this
last interview, and remarked that his daughter was unusually grave. To her, and to all that
affected her in any way, his eyes were always open, though he often failed to comprehend that
which he observed. Lady Hastings, too, had noticed Emily's unusual gravity, and as she had
no clue to that which made her thoughtful, she concluded that the solitude of the country had
a depressing influence upon her spirits, as it frequently had upon her own; and she determined
to speak to her husband upon the matter. To him she represented that the place was very dull;
that they had but few visitors; that even Mr. Marlow had not called for a week; and that Emily
really required some variety of scene and amusement.

She reasoned well according to her notions, and though Sir Philip could not quite comprehend
them, though he abhorred great cities, and loved the country, she had made some impression
at least by reiteration, when suddenly a letter arrived from Mrs. Hazleton, petitioning that
Emily might be permitted to spend a few days with her.

"I am quite alone," she said, "and not very well (she never was better in her life), and I
propose next week to make some excursions to all the beautiful and interesting spots in the
neighborhood. But you know, dear Lady Hastings, there is but small pleasure in such expeditions
when they must be solitary; but with such a mind as that of your dear Emily for my companion,
every object will possess a double interest."

The reader has perceived that the letter was addressed to Lady Hastings; but it was written
for the eye of Sir Philip, and to him it was shown. Lady Hastings observed, as she put the
note into her husband's hand, that it would be much better to go to London. The change from
their own house to Mrs. Hazleton's was not enough to do Emily any good; and that, as to these
expeditions to neighboring places, she had always found them the dullest things imaginable.

Sir Philip thought differently, however. He had been brought to the point of believing that
Emily did want change, but not to the conviction that London would afford the best change for
her. He inquired of Emily, however, which she would like best, a visit of a week to Mrs. Hazleton's,
or a short visit to the metropolis. Much to his satisfaction, Emily decided at once in favor
of the former, and Mrs. Hazleton's letter was answered, accepting her invitation.

The day before Emily went, Mr. Marlow spent nearly two hours with her and her father in the
sort of musy, wandering conversation which is so delightful to imaginative minds. He paid Emily
herself no marked or particular attention; but he never suffered her to doubt that even while
talking with her father, he was fully conscious of her presence, and pleased with it. Sometimes
his conversation was addressed to her directly, and when it was not, by a word or look he would
invite her to join in, and listened to her words as if they were very sweet to his ear.

She loved to listen to him, however, better than to speak herself, and he contrived to please
and interest her in all he said, gently moving all sorts of various feelings, sometimes making
her smile gayly, sometimes muse thoughtfully, and sometimes rendering her almost sad. If he
had been the most practiced love-maker in the world, he could not have done better with a mind
like that of Emily Hastings.

He heard of her proposed visit to Mrs. Hazleton with pleasure, and expressed it. "I am very
glad to hear you are to be with her," he said, "for I do not think Mrs. Hazleton is well. She
has lost her usual spirits, and has been very grave and thoughtful when I have seen her lately."

"Oh, if I can cheer and soothe her," cried Emily eagerly, "how delightful my visit will be
to me. Mrs. Hazleton says in her letter that she is unwell; and that decided me to go to her,
rather than to London."

"To London!" exclaimed Mr. Marlow, "I had no idea that you proposed such a journey. Oh, Sir
Philip, do not take your daughter to London. Friends of mine there are often in the habit of
bringing in fresh and beautiful flowers from the country; but I always see that first they
become dull and dingy with the smoke and heavy air, and then wither away and perish; and often
in gay parties, I have thought that I saw in the young and beautiful around me the same dulling
influence, the same withering, both of the body and the heart."

Sir Philip Hastings smiled pleasantly, and assured his young friend that he had no desire or
intention of going to the capital except for one month in the winter, and Emily looked up brightly,
saying, "For my part, I only wish that even then I could be left behind. When last I was there,
I was so tired of the blue velvet lining of the gilt vis-a-vis, that I used to try and paint
fancy pictures of the country upon it as I drove through the streets with mamma."

At length Emily set out in the heavy family coach, with her maid and Sir Philip for her escort.
Progression was slow in those days compared with our own, when a man can get as much event
into fifty years as Methuselah did into a thousand. The journey took three hours at the least;
but it seemed short to Emily, for at the end of the first hour they were overtaken by Mr. Marlow
on horseback, and he rode along with them to the gate of Mrs. Hazleton's house. He was an admirable
horseman, for he had not only a good but a graceful seat, and his handsome figure and fine
gentlemanly carriage never appeared to greater advantage than when he did his best to be a
centaur. The slow progress of the lumbering vehicle might have been of some inconvenience,
but his horse was trained to canter to a walk when he pleased, and, leaning to the window of
the carriage, and sometimes resting his hand upon it, he contrived to carry on the conversation
with those within almost as easily as in a drawing-room.

Just as the carriage was approaching the gate, Marlow said: "I think I shall not go in with
you, Sir Philip; for I have a little business farther on, and I have ridden more slowly than
I thought;" but before the sentence was well concluded, the gates of the park were opened by
the porter, and Mrs. Hazleton herself appeared within, leaning on the arm of her maid. She
had calculated well the period of Emily's arrival, and had gone out to the gate for the purpose
of giving her an extremely hospitable welcome. Probably, had she not hated her as warmly and
sincerely as she did, she would have stayed at home; our attention is ever doubtful.

But what were Mrs. Hazleton's feelings when she saw Mr. Marlow riding by the side of the carriage?
I will not attempt to describe them; but for one instant a strange dark cloud passed over her
beautiful face. It was banished in an instant; but not before Marlow had remarked both the
expression itself and the sudden glance of the lady's eyes from him to Emily. For the first
time a doubt, a suspicion, a something he did not like to fathom, came over his mind; and he
resolved to watch. Neither Emily nor her father perceived that look, and as the next moment
the beautiful face was once more as bright as ever, they felt pleased with her kind eagerness
to meet them; and alighting from the carriage, walked on with her to the house, while Marlow,
dismounted, accompanied them, leading his horse.

"I am glad to see you, Mr. Marlow," said Mrs. Hazleton, in a tone from which she could not
do what she would--banish all bitterness. "I suppose I owe the pleasure of your visit to that
which you yourself feel in escorting a fair lady."

"I must not, I fear, pretend to such gallantry," replied Marlow. "I overtook the carriage accidentally
as I was riding to Mr. Cornelius Brown's; and to say the truth, I did not intend to come in,
for I am somewhat late."

"Cold comfort for my vanity," replied the lady, "that you would not have paid me a visit unless
you had met me at the gate."

She spoke in a tone rather of sadness than of anger; but Marlow did not choose to perceive
any thing serious in her words, and he replied, laughing: "Nay, dear Mrs. Hazleton, you do
not read the riddle aright. It shows, when rightly interpreted, that your society is so charming
that I cannot resist its influence when once within the spell, even for the sake of the Englishman's
god--Business."

"A man always succeeds in drawing some flattery for woman's ear out of the least flattering
conduct," answered Mrs. Hazleton.

The conversation then took another turn; and after walking with the rest of the party up to
the house, Marlow again mounted and rode away. As soon as the horses had obtained some food
and repose, Sir Philip also returned, and Emily was left, with a woman who felt at her heart
that she could have poniarded her not an hour before.

But Mrs. Hazleton was all gentle sweetness, and calm, thoughtful, dignified ease. She did not
suffer her attention to be diverted for one moment from her fair guest: there were no reveries,
no absence of mind; and Emily--poor Emily--thought her more charming than ever. Nevertheless,
while speaking upon many subjects, and brightly and intelligently upon all, there was an under-current
of thought going on unceasingly in Mrs. Hazleton's mind, different from that upon the surface.
She was trying to read Marlow's conduct towards Emily--to judge whether he loved her or not.
She asked herself whether his having escorted her to that house was in reality purely accidental,
and she wished that she could have seen them together but for a few moments longer, though
every moment had been a dagger to her heart. Nay, she did more: she strove by many a dexterous
turn of the conversation, to lure out her fair unconscious guest's inmost thoughts--to induce
her, not to tell all, for that she knew was hopeless, but to betray all. Emily, however, happily
for herself, was unconscious; she knew not that there was any thing to betray. Fortunately,
most fortunately, she knew not what was in her own breast; or perhaps I should say, knew not
what it meant. Her answers were all simple, natural and true; and plain candor, as often happens,
disappointed art.

Mrs. Hazleton retired for the night with the conviction that whatever might be Marlow's feelings
towards Emily, Emily was not in love with Marlow; and that was something gained.

"No, no," she said, with a pride in her own discernment, "a woman who knows something of the
world can never be long deceived in regard to another woman's heart." She should have added,
"except by its simplicity."

"Now," she continued, mentally, "to-morrow for the first great stop. If this youth can but
demean himself wisely, and will follow the advice I have given him, he has a fair field to
act in. He seems prompt and ready enough: he is assuredly handsome, and what between his good
looks, kind persuasion by others, and her father's dangerous position, this girl methinks may
be easily driven--or led into his arms; and that stumbling-block removed. He will punish her
enough hereafter, or I am mistaken."

Punish her for what, Mrs. Hazleton?

THE FRIENDSHIP OF JOSEPHUS AND ST. PAUL.

In the Princeton Review, the Church of England Quarterly, and other periodicals, there have
appeared recently several very interesting articles upon the Voyage of St. Paul to Rome; and
in a work entitled "Gleanings on the Overland Route," by the author of "Forty Days in the Desert,"
just published in London, we find a dissertation "On the Shipwreck of the Apostle Paul, and
the historian Josephus," which goes far to prove that Josephus accompanied the apostle to Rome,
and that he was in some measure the means of procuring the introduction of the Christians into
"Caesar's household." After a summary account of the shipwreck as narrated by St. Luke, aided
by such elucidatory particulars as have been supplied by Mr. James Smith in his "Voyage and
Shipwreck of St. Paul," the author says:--

"The only real difference between the two accounts of St. Luke and of Josephus is, that Josephus
does not mention the stay of three months on the island of Malta. He writes as if the ship
were wrecked in the open sea, and he was saved by being at once taken up into the second ship.
This very great disagreement in the two narratives we must set to the account of Josephus's
inaccuracy. The second ship he rightly calls a ship of Cyrene, for the Alexandrian vessel,
in a favorable voyage, may have touched at that port. He adds to the apostolic history the
interesting information, that it was through the Jewish actor, Alituries, that he, and, we
may add, the Apostle and Christianity, gained an introduction into 'Caesar's household.' That
Josephus sailed in the same ship with Paul, we may hold for certain. No Jews born in Judea
had the privilege of Roman citizenship; of Jews who had that privilege, the number was so small,
that it is not probable that two such appeals to Rome, by Jews from the province of Judea,
should have been allowed in the reign of Nero. That two ships, carrying such Hebrew applicants
from Judea, should have been wrecked in the Adriatic, from both of which the passengers should
have been saved, and landed at Puteoli, and that within the space of three years, we may pronounce
impossible. So then the Jewish historian Josephus, when a young man, made the voyage from Cæsarea
to Italy with the Apostle Paul, the Evangelist Luke, and their friend Aristarchus, and, for
part of the way, with the young Titus. He calls the Apostle his friend, though worldly prudence
forbade his naming him. From these fellow-travellers he must have heard the opinions of the
Christians. He was able to contradict or confirm all that they said of the founder of our religion,
for he was born only eight years after the crucifixion. But Josephus, when he wrote his history
and life, was a courtier, and even a traitor to his country--he wanted moral courage, he did
not mean to be a martyr, and any testimony in favor of a despised sect is not to be expected
from him. The passage in his Antiquities in which Jesus is praised we may give up as a forgery
of the third century: it is enough for us to remark, that after having lived for five months
with Paul on the voyage from Judea to Italy, he does not write against this earnest teacher
of Christianity, as either a weak enthusiast or a crafty impostor. But he praises his piety
and virtues, and boasts that he was of use in obtaining his release from prison."

Mr. Smith, to whom allusion is made above, is said to be a gentleman of liberal fortune, and
to have carefully studied navigation, and in numerous voyages in his yacht through these seas
to have practised it, for the especial purpose of investigating and illustrating the points
embraced in this interesting portion of the sacred history. He has pretty satisfactorily established
the precise route of the Apostle on this famous journey, which is the most universally familiar
of all in ancient or modern life. The curious suggestion of such personal relations between
Paul and Josephus is not new; it was made some time in the seventh century in the Reflections
of Bernardin Pastouret, and perhaps at an earlier time by others. The author whose words are
here quoted, is Mr. John Sharpe, and he has very clearly presented the case.

BOOK IV.

I. EXPLANATION OF THE ENIGMA.

While the events we have described are taking place at Sorrento, we will retrace our steps
to the Etruscan House, where we left Monte-Leone and Taddeo when the latter placed in the hands
of the former the letter of La Felina. The Count opened the letter, and read:

"Taddeo--You told me in the prison of the palace of the Dukes of Palma, whither I went to find
you, 'Love which speculates is not love. Mine will obey you for obedience' sake. Try, however,
to ask something grand and difficult, that you may judge it by its fruits.'"

"Then you love her?" said Monte-Leone, interrupting himself.

"Read on," said Taddeo.

"'Your heart, Taddeo, is noble,' replied I. 'I have faith in it. May God grant that your strength
do not betray your courage. In four days you will learn what I expect from you.' I write down
what I expect, for I have not courage to tell you. I cannot crush your hopes, though I know
that they cannot be realized. The feelings you have avowed to me, Taddeo, demand entire confidence:
for it would be a crime to deceive a heart like yours. I will therefore tell you the truth,
painful as it may be. It is a year since I came to Naples, having been attracted thither by
a brilliant engagement at San Carlo. My success was as great as it had been in the other capitals
of Italy. After the applause and ovations of the public--the truest and most discriminating
of all--came privileged admirers; those, who, from their rank, birth, and fortune, have a right
to pass the curtain of the sanctuary, and cast incense at the very foot of the idol; who can
compliment the artiste on the stage, and follow her with their commonplaces to her very box.
There was no scarcity of sacrificers. The noblest of Naples overwhelmed me with adulations;
from compliments they came to declaration, and there, as at Rome, Venice, and elsewhere, I
was persecuted by the insipid gallantries of suitors, to which every successful artiste possessed
of any personal attraction must submit. To all these advances my heart remained cold, and my
insensibility cost me nothing; for I neither loved nor wished to. A strange event, however,
changed my plans. It was an evening of last autumn, and the air was as sultry as possible.
Exhausted by the heat of the theatre, after the performance was over I sent my carriage home,
and resolved, in company with my confidante, to return on foot. I avoided my many suitors,
and escaped from the theatre by a back-door. The air was so pure, and the night so beautiful,
that I walked for some time on the chiaja. It was late when I returned homeward. Crossing an
isolated street, which I had taken to shorten the walk, my confidante and myself were unexpectedly
attacked by a party of men who stood beneath the portico of a palace. They had well-nigh stifled
our cries with scarfs, which had been thrown over our heads, and we should possibly have been
murdered, when a man, rushing sword in hand, I know not whence, attacked our aggressors, disarmed
three of them, whom he put to flight, and killed the fourth by a dagger-thrust. Rapidly as
possible, he then took off the bandages from our faces, and gave me, half dead with terror,
his arm.

"A carriage passed, the stranger called to it, placed us in it, and said: 'A lady, signora,
of your appearance, met in the streets of Naples at such an hour, doubtless is under the influence
of some secret motive she would be unwilling to expose. My services to you have been too slight
to warrant my questioning you. Now you have nothing to fear, and this carriage will take you
any where you please. I will inquire into no orders which you may give.' 'But your name, signore?'
said I. 'Count Monte-Leone,' said he, as he disappeared."

"That is true," said the Count. "I never knew, though, whom I had rescued from the hands of
bandits."

He then began again to read:

"From that time the Count was, in spite of myself, the object of my constant thoughts and secret
meditations. I was very anxious, at least, to know the features of the man, whom I had only
seen in the dark; for the services he had rendered me, the courage he had displayed, even the
sound of his voice, spoke both to my head and heart. One day, as I was crossing the street
of Toledo, some young persons pointed out to me a cavalier, mounted on a noble horse. 'No one
but Monte-Leone can ride such an animal as that. No one else rides so well.' 'He is the handsomest
and most brilliant of our young nobles,' said another. 'What a pity he gives himself so completely
to the people,' said a third. The Count, whom I saw then for the first time, was the realization
of all my youthful dreams and illusions. I loved the Count, though I did not know it. From
the moment I saw him, my heart and soul were consecrated to him."

A painful sigh, uttered near Monte-Leone, made the Count look at young Rovero, the pallor of
whom indicated intense suffering.

"My friend," said the Count, taking his hand, "what matters it if Felina love me, provided
I do not love her?"

"Some day you may love her," said Taddeo.

"No," said the Count.

"And why?"

"Because I have but one heart, and that is another's."

A happy smile lighted up the face of Rovero, and Monte-Leone continued to read, with as much
sang-froid as if another were the subject of the letter:

"You wished to know which of the four I loved; excuse me, Taddeo, but now I have told you all.
From that time I conceived an ardent devotion to Monte-Leone. My passion was, however, of that
kind which only demands the gratification of the soul. All I had heard of the Count's character,
of his errors, follies, and numerous passions, far from alienating, rendered him still dearer
to me. It seemed that his lofty, generous disposition, full of courage and honor, had wanted
nothing but a guide, or rather an angel, to wrest him from the torment of the life he had prepared
for himself."

The Count paused, and reflected for a few moments, which seemed centuries to Rovero. He then
began again to read:

"Ah, had I met Monte-Leone in the days of my innocence, in the days when I also looked for
some one to guide my early steps, with my hand in his, with my heart beating against his, I
should, perhaps, have avoided the rocks on which I have been wrecked? To the Count, however,
I could be now but an ordinary woman, whose attractions might, perhaps, for the moment fascinate
him, but whom he would soon cast aside, as he has his other conquests: then I feel I should
have killed him!"

The Count quietly read on:

"I loved him too fondly to become his mistress; yet his image pursued me by night and day.
At last my heart, in its immense and pure love, inspired me with the noblest and purest idea:
'Be more than a woman, be more than a mistress to him,' said I to myself, 'be a providence,
a secret and protecting providence which preserves him in all dangers, and provides all his
happiness.' Alas! I fancied that I had to defend Monte-Leone only against the ordinary perils
of life, against the rivalry excited by his triumphs, and not against the serious dangers to
which his opinions subjected him. I soon heard the rumors which were being circulated about
the Count, learned of his danger, and the perilous part he had to play in relation to the secret
societies. I learned all this from public rumor, but I needed other aid and information to
guide me in the defence of him I loved. Among those most carried away by my talent, and if
I must say so, most captivated by my beauty, was the Duke of Palma, minister of police. I received
the minister kindly, and without yielding to his persuasions, conferred trifling favors on
him. His confidence in me was immense. When I was stern to him he became desperate, but he
professed there was such a charm in my company that he sought constantly to see me. Minister
as he was, he became not my sicisbeo, for that I would consent to at no price, but my cavaliero
sirviente, thus occupying the second grand hierarchy of love. I learned from the minister himself
the snares prepared for Monte-Leone, twenty times I informed your friend of them, and enabled
him to avoid them. In the same manner I heard of your imprudent folly at the ball of San-Carlo,
and you know what I did to avert its consequences. A certain Lippiani, a skilful officer placed
by means of my influence in the Neapolitan police, while paying a visit of inspection to the
jailor of the Castle Del Uovo, contrived to introduce into the prisoner's loaf the mysterious
information he received. The imagination, or rather the genius of the Count, inspired him with
a design to secure his liberty. To assure the success of this ruse, the Count escaped for some
hours from his prison, and amid that season of trouble, energy, and anguish, Monte-Leone lost
the famous ring he always wears. This loss again placed his life and liberty in danger. Then
I conceived a hardy and bold plan, which cannot succeed without your aid and devotion. On that,
however, for you so promised me, I rely. I learned that you were a prisoner, but were about
to be released. You can then aid me, but it is necessary to awake no suspicion. Aware of every
outlet to the palace, which had often been shown to me by the Duke of Palma, I remembered a
certain secret passage and door hidden in a pillar, whither the Duke often comes, to hear,
unseen, the examinations of prisoners. Thither I sought to come. The porter admitted me at
night; doubtless, fancying I was come to keep an appointment with his master. Of what value,
however, were honor and reputation to me compared with his danger. Now, Taddeo, read with attention
the lines I am about to write; follow my advice exactly, or Monte-Leone is lost.

"I obtained possession for a few days of the emerald lost by the Count, and which had been
sent by his enemies to the Duke of Palma. At a great cost I caused a similar one to be made
by one of the most skilful workmen of Naples. The copy will be easily recognized: that is what
I wish. I have substituted it for the original, and placed it myself in the minister's jewel
case, the key of which he had given to me to take an antique cameo, the design of which I wished.
The false ring will be given to the Count, instead of the true one, which is in the coffret
I have placed by you. Go to Monte-Leone's house, during the night after your release. I am
too closely watched now, to dare go thither myself. Give this ring to the old servant, tell
him to deliver it to the judges, but not till the trial. The enemies of whom I spoke will be
overcome by this pretended proof of their imposition, and the safety of the Count will be sure.
I have told you all. Now, Taddeo, excuse me for having pained you by my disclosure. Excuse
me for having unfolded all my heart to you, excuse me for having permitted you to read my most
secret sentiments. Your love deserves something better than mine; but if it inspire you with
any pity for me, rescue the Count from the executioner, and know that to save Monte-Leone is
to save La Felina."

"What a woman!" said the Count, as he let fall the letter; "what passion and devotion!"

"Ah!" said Taddeo, who looked anxiously into the eyes of the Count, to divine the effect produced
by the singer's letter, "you see her devotion pleases and touches you:--that you love her----"

"Taddeo," said the Count, with great emotion, "that woman was my providence, and defended me
against my accusers.... She saved my life.... It is a noble heart that thus hopelessly devotes
itself. Let me give her all my gratitude.... A poor and sterile recompense for such devotion.
The other sentiments of my heart you shall also know!"

Rising up with the dignified and lofty air of a noble, he said:

"Taddeo Rovero, Count Monte-Leone asks of you the hand of Aminta Rovero, your sister."

Just then a painful exclamation was heard in the next room. Monte-Leone seized his dagger and
rushed to the door. He threw it open, and a strange spectacle presented itself to him. A woman,
pale and trembling, leaned on the arm of an old man. Her eyes, fixed and tearful, seemed to
look without seeing, and her ears appeared to catch no sound. It was La Felina. She was sustained
by old Giacomo.

"Excuse me, Monsignore, she was permitted to come in; for Signor Rovero, when he brought your
ring, said you owed your safety to her."

"Felina!" said Taddeo. He fell at the singer's feet.

She remained motionless as a statue whose lips only were living.

"Signore Monte-Leone," said she, "I leave Naples to-night, and for ever. Before I did so, however,
I wished to see and give you a piece of advice. Death menaces you from all sides, and your
most insignificant actions are observed. Escape from the country, for here you will no longer
find the faithful friends who have watched over you."

"Say, Signora, the faithful friend, the generous providence who saved me from the axe of the
executioner."

"You know all, Signor," said La Felina; and she looked at Taddeo--"my secret has been revealed
to you--for blushing, however, I now acknowledge with pride that it is true, for it has won
for me the expressions you uttered just now. Alas!" said she bitterly, "I should have fled
and have heard no more."

Tears filled her eyes; overcoming her emotion, however, she said:

"My mission is fulfilled, Count Monte-Leone, for you will live and be happy. If misfortune,
though, befall you, do not forget that one heart in the world will taste of all your sorrow.--Taddeo,"
said she, giving the young man her hand, "time and reason will exert their influence on so
noble a heart, and ere long you will find one worthy of you. Forget me," she added, when she
saw him about to reply, "do not speak to me of sentiments the intensity of which I know--and
I will assist you to triumph. To-morrow you will love me less. I know so. To-morrow."

"To-morrow!" said Taddeo.

"Yes," said Felina, "and in a little time I shall be but the shadow of a dream, which some
reality will expel from your heart."

She went towards the door.

"Signori," said she, when she saw Monte-Leone and Taddeo preparing to follow her, "I came hither
with confidence in the honor of two gentlemen, who, I am sure, will not leave the room until
I shall have left. Do not be afraid," she continued, with a faint smile on her lips, "a carriage
awaits, but not to convey me to the Castle Del Uovo."

Then casting on the Count a glance instinct with sadness and regret, she offered her hand to
Taddeo, who covered it with kisses, and preceded by Giacomo left the room. For some moments
the two friends looked at each other in silence. Taddeo then went towards the door, saying:

"But I am a fool to let her escape thus."

He crossed the court and went to the door of the room. The carriage, however, was gone, and
far in the distance he heard the sound of the wheels.

II.--A LAST APPEARANCE.

The hearts of Monte-Leone and of Taddeo Rovero were, after the departure of the singer, in
very different conditions. Monte-Leone, delighted with the present, and with the prospect of
future success, to be attained as the husband of Aminta, forgot all else--even the terrible
responsibility which weighed on him as the chief of a faction of forbidden societies, and the
perpetual dangers with which it menaced him. Monte-Leone had an energetic heart but a volatile
mind, over which the accidents of life glide like the runner of a sleigh over polished ice,
almost without leaving traces.

A circumstance of which we will speak of by and by, aroused the Count from his peace of soul
to cast him in the waves of that sea of politics where shipwrecks are so common and tempests
so usual. The only idea which occupied Taddeo was to see La Felina again. He said rightly enough
that the rays of such a star could not long be concealed; that its glory and success would
always betray it, and that the farewell token of Monte-Leone in the Etruscan house would not
be for ever.

Under the influence, then, of very different sentiments, the two friends returned to the Count's
hotel at Naples. Less beautiful than the magnificent palace of Monte-Leone, it did not, like
the latter, render indispensable the numerous and imposing array of servants, of which his
somewhat restricted fortune deprived Monte-Leone. Descried by its master during the whole time
of his seclusion, this hotel had been the scene of the ruinous pleasures of the Count. Splendid
festivals had been given there; joyous suppers had been proposed, and the shadow of more than
one graceful dame, wrapped in silken folds, had been traced at midnight on the great white
marble wall of the portico.

Giacomo, who had left the Etruscan house at an early hour, had superintended the preparation
of the hotel for its master, and the unfolding of the tall wide windows made the house seem
to stare on the sunlight, like blind persons who but recently have recovered their sight. The
resuscitation of the hotel of Monte-Leone, as people in the Toledo-street said, created a great
sensation in that quarter. The Count and Taddeo had been there but a short time, when Giacomo,
evidently in a very bad humor, announced Signor Pignana. Many of the Count's friends who had
heard of his return came to see him and crowded around him. They arose to leave when the new-comer
was announced; but they paused when they saw the strange person introduced.

"Buon giorno caro mio Pignana,"[O] said the Count, advancing to meet him. "You are not the
last to visit me, and I am deeply touched by your visit. He is my landlord, Signori, an excellent
man. Something of an Arab, it is true, in money matters; but as he is an old tradesman, you
see it is impossible for him to change his habits. For twenty years he furnished the family
liveries, and the result is that now he is richer than me."

"Ah, my Lord," said Pignana, "you flatter me."

"Not at all, Signor," said Monte-Leone. "Now you can yourself have liveries with the Pignana
arms, 'Two winged shears on a field argent,' a regular tailor's escutcheon."

"How then," asked one of the young men, "is Signor Pignana your landlord--is it of this hotel
or of your beautiful palace?"

"Ah," said the Count, "he is not exactly my landlord yet, but he will be if my friend and creditor,
Signor Pignana, continues to lend me money at cent. per cent. At present, however, the excellent
man only owns my Etruscan house, a very gem of a thing, which he rents to me, and for which
I am much obliged."

"It is I who am obliged," muttered Pignana.

"Ah!" said the Count, with a smile, "I believe you. That house had nearly become historical.
If the executioner of Naples, the father of a family, and passionately fond of flowers," continued
the Count to his friends, "with whom I passed a fortnight at the Castle Del Uovo, had been
forced to arrange matters for me, the house in which Monte-Leone was arrested would have become
historical. Pignana could have let it out to tourists, and could have retailed the stores for
the London museums. Instead of this piece of good fortune, which I am very glad was not Pignana's,
he possesses a good tenant, who will some day pay him punctually, when he has himself been
paid all that is due him; for you can fancy how the arrest of one man discourages the business
of others. All his debtors, all the friends of his purse, leap with joy; he seems at once outlawed,
especially to those who are indebted to him. The most honest merely pray that his imprisonment
may be prolonged; the least delicate pray that the executioner may send them a receipt."

"But the Count also has some true friends who would be distressed at his death," said Pignana.
"Monsignore counts me among them."

Pignana probably uttered these words under the influence of great emotion, for a tear hung
on the lid of his eye above an aquiline nose of immense size.

"My dear Pignana," said the Count, "I know how far I can depend on you, for I know you."

Monte-Leone accented this word, the significance of which to Pignana was very expressive, for
he looked proudly around, as if the Count had given him a certificate of valor and courage.

"I am about to give you the list of our men--that is to say of our transactions,"[P] said the
old man, eagerly correcting himself.

"Yes," said Monte-Leone, who had glanced sternly at him, "the list of our transactions. Go
on, Pignana, go on, prove your account and diminish the total, contrary to your wont; above
all, exhibit your vouchers; that is especially important."

"Do not trouble yourself, Monsignore: I have all regular, and now you must pay in person."

"In person," replied the Count. "Yes, Pignana, I will thus discharge my obligations without
having recourse to a third party. Go thither, however, at once," said he, and he pushed the
tailor into the next room. "You will find writing materials," he added, aside, "and no one
to listen to you."

"Excuse me, Signori," said he, speaking to his friends; "you have seen one of the greatest
misfortunes of our rank, the necessity of civility to a fool who is a creditor."

Just then Taddeo Rovero, who had gone out when Pignana entered, came in, introducing a handsome
lad of about eighteen.

"Count," said he, to Monte-Leone, "let me introduce you to Signor Gaetano Brignoli, a friend
of my family."

"Then, Signor," said the Count, "you are a friend of mine; for all whom they love are dear to me."

"Ah! Count," said Gaetano, "how much uneasiness your trial has caused all at Sorrento! Especially
to myself, who was particularly charged by the charming Aminta to inform her of all the details
of the trial. I set out on the night before your trial to be one of the first in the hall."

"I scarcely dare," said the Count, with an expression of great pleasure, "to think the Signorina
entertains such interest in my behalf."

"It was not precisely of yourself that she spoke," replied Gaetano, "but of my friend Taddeo,
her brother, who was known to be compromised with you, and about whom she, naturally enough,
was interested."

The Count grew slightly pale as he saw this gratification wrested from him.

"By-the-by, Signori," said Gaetano, "you have heard the news with which all the city and suburbs
echo, and which makes almost as much noise as the trial of the Count Monte-Leone."

"I trust," said the Count, bitterly, "that the news is more pleasant."

"Infinitely more so," continued Gaetano. "Every one is talking of it, and crazed with it--especially
myself, who am a pazzo per la musica, like the here of Fioravanti. You know, Signori, nothing
is more pleasant than to win again a pleasure we fancy to have been lost to us."

"Go on," said Taddeo, who had a presentiment that something pleasant was about to be related.
The very mention of music made him quiver.

"Well, Signori," said Gaetano, "the Sicilian siren, the fairy La Felina, sings to-night at
San Carlo."

"La Felina?" said all the listeners at once.

"La Felina! impossible!" said Rovero. "She left Naples last night."

