Olive Thorne Miller tells this pretty anecdote of a Skylark which she emancipated from a bird
store: "I bought the skylark, though I did not want him. I spared no pains to make the stranger
happy. I procured a beautiful sod of uncut fresh grass, of which he at once took possession,
crouching or sitting low among the stems, and looking most bewitching. He seemed contented,
and uttered no more that appealing cry, but he did not show much intelligence. His cage had
a broad base behind which he delighted to hide, and for hours as I sat in the room I could
see nothing of him, although I would hear him stirring about. If I rose from my seat he was
instantly on the alert, and stretched his head up to look over at me. I tried to get a better
view of him by hanging a small mirror at an angle over his cage, but he was so much frightened
by it that I removed it."

"This bird," Mrs. Miller says "never seemed to know enough to go home. Even when very hungry
he would stand before his wide open door, where one step would take him into his beloved grass
thicket, and yet that one step he would not take. When his hunger became intolerable he ran
around the room, circled about his cage, looking in, recognizing his food dishes, and trying
eagerly to get between the wires to reach them; and yet when he came before the open door he
would stand and gaze, but never go in. After five months' trial, during which he displayed
no particular intelligence, and never learned to enter his cage, he passed out of the bird
room, but not into a store."

WILSON'S PHALAROPE.

Perhaps the most interesting, as it is certainly the most uncommon, characteristic of this
species of birds is that the male relieves his mate from all domestic duties except the laying
of the eggs. He usually chooses a thin tuft of grass on a level spot, but often in an open
place concealed by only a few straggling blades. He scratches a shallow depression in the soft
earth, lines it with a thin layer of fragments of old grass blades, upon which the eggs, three
or four, are laid about the last of May or first of June. Owing to the low situation in which
the nest is placed, the first set of eggs are often destroyed by a heavy fall of rain causing
the water to rise so as to submerge the nest. The instinct of self preservation in these birds,
as in many others, seems lacking in this respect. A second set, numbering two or three, is
often deposited in a depression scratched in the ground, as at first, but with no sign of any
lining.

Wilson's Phalarope is exclusively an American bird, more common in the interior than along
the sea coast. The older ornithologists knew little of it. It is now known to breed in northern
Illinois, Iowa, Wisconsin, Minnesota, the Dakotas, Utah, and Oregon. It is recorded as a summer
resident in northern Indiana and in western Kansas. Mr. E. W. Nelson states that it is the
most common species in northern Illinois, frequenting grassy marshes and low prairies, and
is not exceeded in numbers even by the ever-present Spotted Sandpiper. While it was one of
our most common birds in the Calumet region it is now becoming scarce.

The adult female of this beautiful species is by far the handsomest of the small waders. The
breeding plumage is much brighter and richer than that of the male, another peculiar characteristic,
and the male alone possesses the naked abdomen. The female always remains near the nest while
he is sitting, and shows great solicitude upon the approach of an intruder. The adults assume
the winter plumage during July.

THE EVENING GROSBEAK.

Handsomer birds there may be, but in the opinion of many this visitant to various portions
of western North America is in shape, color, and markings one of the most exquisite of the
feather-wearers. It has for its habitation the region extending from the plains to the Pacific
ocean and from Mexico into British America. Toward the North it ranges further to the east;
so that, while it appears to be not uncommon about Lake Superior, it has been reported as occuring
in Ohio, New York, and Canada. In Illinois it was observed at Freeport during the winter of
1870 and 1871, and at Waukegan during January, 1873. It is a common resident of the forests
of the State of Washington, and also of Oregon. In the latter region Dr. Merrill observed the
birds carrying building material to a huge fir tree, but was unable to locate the nest, and
the tree was practically inaccessable. Mr. Walter E. Bryant was the first to record an authentic
nest and eggs of the Evening Grosbeak. In a paper read before the California Academy of Sciences
he describes a nest of this species containing four eggs, found in Yolo county, California.
The nest was built in a small live oak, at a height of ten feet, and was composed of small
twigs supporting a thin layer of fibrous bark and a lining of horse hair. The eggs are of a
clear greenish-ground color, blotched with pale brown. According to Mr. Davie, one of the leading
authorities on North American birds, little if any more information has been obtained regarding
the nests and eggs of the Evening Grosbeak.

As to its habits, Mr. O. P. Day says, that about the year 1872, while hunting during fine autumn
weather in the woods about Eureka, Illinois, he fell in with a number of these Grosbeaks. They
were feeding in the tree tops on the seeds of the sugar maple, just then ripening, and were
excessively fat. They were very unsuspicious, and for a long time suffered him to observe them.
They also ate the buds of the cottonwood tree in company with the Rose-Breasted Grosbeak.

The song of the Grosbeak is singularly like that of the Robin, and to one not thoroughly familiar
with the notes of the latter a difference would not at first be detected. There is a very decided
difference, however, and by repeatedly listening to both species in full voice it will be discovered
more and more clearly. The sweet and gentle strains of music harmonize delightfully, and the
concert they make is well worth the careful attention of the discriminating student. The value
of such study will be admitted by all who know how little is known of the songsters. A gentleman
recently said to us that one day in November the greater part of the football field at the
south end of Lincoln Park was covered with Snow Birds. There were also on the field more than
one hundred grammar and high school boys waiting the arrival of the football team. There was
only one person present who paid any attention to the birds which were picking up the food,
twittering, hopping, and flying about, and occasionally indulging in fights, and all utterly
oblivious of the fact that there were scores of shouting school boys around and about them.
The gentleman called the attention of one after another of ten of the high school boys to the
snow birds and asked what they were. They one and all declared they were English Sparrows,
and seemed astounded that any one could be so ignorant as not to know what an English Sparrow
was. So much for the city-bred boy's observation of birds.

THE EVENING GROSBEAK.

In the far Northwest we find this beautiful bird the year around. During the winter he often
comes farther south in company with his cousin, the Rose-Breasted Grosbeak.

What a beautiful sight it must be to see a flock of these birds--Evening Grosbeaks and Rose-Breasted
in their pretty plumage.

Grosbeaks belong to a family called Finches. The Sparrows, Buntings, and Crossbills belong
to the same family. It is the largest family among birds.

You will notice that they all have stout bills. Their food is mostly grains and their bills
are well formed to crush the seeds.

Look at your back numbers of "BIRDS" and notice the pictures of the other Finches I have named.
Don't you think Dame Nature is very generous with her colors sometimes?

Only a few days ago while strolling through the woods with my field glass, I saw a pretty sight.
On one tree I saw a Redheaded Woodpecker, a Flicker, an Indigo Bunting, and a Rose-Breasted
Grosbeak. I thought then, if we could only have the Evening Grosbeak our group of colors would
be complete.

Have you ever wondered at some birds being so prettily dressed while others have such dull colors?

Some people say that the birds who do not sing must have bright feathers to make them attractive.
We cannot believe this. Some of our bright colored birds are sweet singers, and surely many
of our dull colored birds cannot sing very well.

Next month you will see the pictures of several home birds. See if dull colors have anything
to do with sweet song.

THE TURKEY VULTURE.

This bird is found mostly in the southern states. Here he is known by the more common name
of Turkey Buzzard.

He looks like a noble bird but he isn't. While he is well fitted for flying, and might, if
he tried, catch his prey, he prefers to eat dead animals.

The people down south never think of burying a dead horse or cow. They just drag it out away
from their homes and leave it to the Vultures who are sure to dispose of it.

It is very seldom that they attack a live animal.

They will even visit the streets of the cities in search of dead animals for food, and do not
show much fear of man. Oftentimes they are found among the chickens and ducks in the barn-yard,
but have never been known to kill any.

One gentleman who has studied the habits of the Vulture says that it has been known to suck
the eggs of Herons. This is not common, though. As I said they prefer dead animals for their
food and even eat their own dead.

The Vulture is very graceful while on the wing. He sails along and you can hardly see his wings
move as he circles about looking for food on the ground below.

Many people think the Vulture looks much like our tame turkey.

If you know of a turkey near by, just compare this picture with it and you won't think so.

See how chalk-white his bill is. No feathers on his head, but a bright red skin.

What do you think of the young chick? It doesn't seem as though he could ever be the large,
heavy bird his parent seems to be.

Now turn back to the first page of July "BIRDS" and see how he differs from the Eagle.

THE TURKEY VULTURE.

Turkey Buzzard is the familiar name applied to this bird, on account of his remarkable resemblance
to our common Turkey. This is the only respect however, in which they are alike. It inhabits
the United States and British Provinces from the Atlantic to the Pacific, south through Central
and most of South America. Every farmer knows it to be an industrious scavenger, devouring
at all times the putrid or decomposing flesh of carcasses. They are found in flocks, not only
flying and feeding in company, but resorting to the same spot to roost; nesting also in communities;
depositing their eggs on the ground, on rocks, or in hollow logs and stumps, usually in thick
woods or in a sycamore grove, in the bend or fork of a stream. The nest is frequently built
in a tree, or in the cavity of a sycamore stump, though a favorite place for depositing the
eggs is a little depression under a small bush or overhanging rock on a steep hillside.

Renowned naturalists have long argued that the Vulture does not have an extraordinary power
of smell, but, according to Mr. Davie, an excellent authority, it has been proven by the most
satisfactory experiments that the Turkey Buzzard does possess a keen sense of smell by which
it can distinguish the odor of flesh at a great distance.

The flight of the Turkey Vulture is truly beautiful, and no landscape with its patches of green
woods and grassy fields, is perfect without its dignified figure high in the air, moving round
in circles, steady, graceful and easy, and apparently without effort. "It sails," says Dr.
Brewer, "with a steady, even motion, with wings just above the horizontal position, with their
tips slightly raised, rises from the ground with a single bound, gives a few flaps of the wings,
and then proceeds with its peculiar soaring flight, rising very high in the air."

The Vulture pictured in the accompanying plate was obtained between the Brazos river and Matagorda
bay. With it was found the Black Vulture, both nesting upon the ground. As the nearest trees
were thirty or forty miles distant these Vultures were always found in this situation. The
birds selected an open spot beneath a heavy growth of bushes, placing the eggs upon the bare
ground. The old bird when approached would not attempt to leave the nest, and in the case of
the young bird in the plate, the female to protect it from harm, promptly disgorged the putrid
contents of her stomach, which was so offensive that the intruder had to close his nostrils
with one hand while he reached for the young bird with the other.

The Turkey Vulture is a very silent bird, only uttering a hiss of defiance or warning to its
neighbors when feeding, or a low gutteral croak of alarm when flying low overhead.

The services of the Vultures as scavengers in removing offal render them valuable, and almost
a necessity in southern cities. If an animal is killed and left exposed to view, the bird is
sure to find out the spot in a very short time, and to make its appearance as if called by
some magic spell from the empty air.

GAMBEL'S PARTRIDGE.

Gambel's Partridge, of which comparatively little is known, is a characteristic game bird of
Arizona and New Mexico, of rare beauty, and with habits similar to others of the species of
which there are about two hundred. Mr. W. E. D. Scott found the species distributed throughout
the entire Catalina region in Arizona below an altitude of 5,000 feet. The bird is also known
as the Arizona Quail.

The nest is made in a depression in the ground sometimes without any lining. From eight to
sixteen eggs are laid. They are most beautifully marked on a creamy-white ground with scattered
spots and blotches of old gold, and sometimes light drab and chestnut red. In some specimens
the gold coloring is so pronounced that it strongly suggests to the imagination that this quail
feeds upon the grains of the precious metal which characterizes its home, and that the pigment
is imparted to the eggs.

After the nesting season these birds commonly gather in "coveys" or bevies, usually composed
of the members of but one family. As a rule they are terrestrial, but may take to trees when
flushed. They are game birds par excellence, and, says Chapman, trusting to the concealment
afforded by their dull colors, attempt to avoid detection by hiding rather than by flying.
The flight is rapid and accompanied by a startling whirr, caused by the quick strokes of their
small, concave, stiff-feathered wings. They roost on the ground, tail to tail, with heads pointing
outward; "a bunch of closely huddled forms--a living bomb whose explosion is scarcely less
startling than that of dynamite manufacture."

The Partridge is on all hands admitted to be wholly harmless, and at times beneficial to the
agriculturist. It is an undoubted fact that it thrives with the highest system of cultivation,
and the lands that are the most carefully tilled, and bear the greatest quantity of grain and
green crops, generally produce the greatest number of Partridges.

SUMMARY.

Page 43.

#AMERICAN OSPREY.#--Pandion paliaetus carolinensis.

RANGE--North America; breeds from Florida to Labrador; winters from South Carolina to northern
South America.

NEST--Generally in a tree, thirty to fifty feet from the ground, rarely on the ground.

