While these reflections were passing through his mind, he observed a light in the window of
the old house; but he could not well tell whether it was merely the reflection of a moonbeam
on the glass, or a candle in the interior. He walked forward out of curiosity; but the scene,
as he approached the building, was so gloomy, and the air so chill, that he wished to turn
back; however, he walked on till he reached the door, and there, sure enough, his brother was
waiting on the threshold to receive him. They shook hands in silence, for William's heart was
too full to speak, and he followed John into the house; and an ill-cared-for house it was.
He stumbled among heaps of rubbish in the dark passage; and, as he groped along the wall, his
hand brought down patches of old lime, and was caught in spiders' webs almost as strong as
if the spinner had meant to go a-fowling. When they had got into the parlour, he saw that the
building was indeed a ruin; there was not a whole pane of glass in the window, nor a plank
of wood in the damp floor; and the fireplace, without fire, or grate to hold it, looked like
the entrance to a burying-vault. John, however, walked quietly in, and sat down on a heap of
rubbish by the ingleside; and William, following his example, sat down over-against him. His
heart now began to quake, and he was afraid, without knowing what he had to fear. He ran over
in his mind the transactions of the evening--his walk, his reflections, his anxieties--embracing
the whole, as if in one rapid and yet detailed glance of the soul, and then turned his eyes
upon his brother both in fear and curiosity. What fearful secret could John have to communicate
in a place like this? Could he not have spoken as well in the open air, where it was so much
warmer, and in the blessed light of the moon? No one was dead, or likely to die, that he cared
for; his dearest and almost only friends were at this moment talking and laughing round their
social table, and near a bright fire, expecting his arrival, and John and he were--here! At
length, repressing by a strong effort the undefined and undefinable feelings that were crowding
upon him, he broke the silence, which was now beginning to seem strange and embarrassing.

"And how have you been, John?" said he, in the usual form of friendly inquiries; "and how have
you got on in the world since we parted?"

"I have been well." replied John; "and I have got on as well as mortal man could desire."

"Yet you cannot be happy; you must have something to say--something I am almost afraid to hear.
Out with it, in God's name! and let us go home."

"Yes," said John, "I have something to say; but it will not take long to hear, and then we
shall both go home. I was apprenticed to the boat-building four years ago." "I know it," replied
William; "you wrote to me about it yourself, John."

"I was made foreman before my time was out."

"I know that, too," said William; "Fanny gave me the whole particulars in a letter I received
at Smyrna;--surely that cannot be all."

"I have more to tell," said John, solemnly: "my apprenticeship is out."

"What, in four years!--you are mad, John! What do you mean?"

"The indenture was cancelled this evening."

"How?" cried William, with a gasp, and beginning to tremble all over, without knowing why.

"I was wounded on the beach," said John, rising up, and walking backwards towards the window;
while the moon, entering into a dense cloud, had scarcely sufficient power to exhibit the outlines
of his figure. "It was by the point of a dagger," continued he, his voice sounding distant
and indistinct, "and I died of the wound!"

William was alone in the apartment, and he felt the hair rising upon his head, and cold drops
of sweat trickling down his brow. His ghastly and bewildered look was hardly noticed by his
parents and sister during the first moments of salutation; and, when it was, the excuse was
illness and fatigue. He could neither eat nor drink, (it seemed as if he had lost altogether
the faculty of swallowing,) but sat silent and stupified, turning his head ever and anon to
the door, till it struck one o'clock. About this time a knocking was heard, and the sister,
jumping up, cried it was John come home, and ran to open the door. But it was not John; it
was the minister of the parish; and he had scarcely time to break the blow to the parents with
the shield of religion, when the dead body of their eldest son was brought into the house.--Orient.
Herald.

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF DISCOVERY.

Zoological Gardens.

It is stated that upwards of one hundred and eighty pounds have been received for the admission
of the public to these gardens during one week.

We omitted to mention last week, that one of the lamas was presented by Robert Barclay, Esq.
of Bury Hill; a leopard by Lord Auckland; several animals from the Arctic regions by the Hudson's
Bay Company, &c. The pair of emus were bred at Windsor, by Lord Mountcharles. The emu is hunted
in New South Wales for its oil; it frequently weighs 100 lbs., and its taste, when cooked,
more resembles beef than fowl.--See Notes, p. 378, vol. xi. MIRROR.

Venerable Orange Tree.

There is an orange tree, still living and vigorous, in the orangery at Versailles, which is
well ascertained to be above 400 years old. It is designated the Bourbon, having belonged to
the celebrated constable of that name in the beginning of the 16th century, and been confiscated
to the crown in 1522, at which time it was 100 years old. A crown is placed on the box in which
it is planted, with this inscription, "Sown in 1421."

Thirty-four orange-trees have lately been received at Windsor, as a present from the king of
France to George IV.

Potato Mortar.

M. Cadet-de-Vaux found mortar of lime and sand, and also that made from clay, greatly improved
in durability by mixing boiled potatoes with it.

An Experimental Farm,

As a school of practical husbandry for a part of central France, has been formed by the celebrated
Abbé de Pradt. It is situated about a league from Avranches, on the great road from that city
to Bort, in the department of Corrèze.--Foreign Q. Rev.

A Tunnel under the Vistula, at Warsaw,

Has been projected. This mode of communication will be of the utmost utility, especially at
the times of the breaking up of the frost, when all intercourse is interrupted. The architect
is a foreigner, and has engaged to complete the work in the space of three years.--Paris Paper.

Small White Slugs,

In gardens, are more injurious than the larger variety, because their diminutive size escapes
the gardener's eye. A good way to keep them under is to make small holes, about an inch deep,
and about the diameter of the little finger, round the plants which they infest. Into these
holes the slugs will retreat during the day, and they may be killed there by dropping in a
little salt, quicklime in powder, or by strong lime and water.--Gardener's Mag.

Turkish Method of Preserving Filberts.

When perfectly ripe, remove the husks, and dry the nuts, by rubbing with a coarse cloth; sprinkle
the bottom of a stone jar with a very little salt; then place a layer of filberts, adding a
small quantity of salt between each layer. The jar must be perfectly dry and clean. Secure
the top from air, and keep them in a dry place; and, at the end of six months, they will peel.--Ibid.

Extinction of Fires.

When a chimney or flue is on fire, throw into the fire-place one handful after another of flower
of sulphur. This, by its combustion, effects the decomposition of the atmospheric air, which
is, in consequence, paralysed, or, in effect, annihilated.

Oysters.

After the month of May, it is felony to carry away the caltch (the spawn adhering to stones,
old oyster-shells, &c.) and punishable to take any oysters, except those of the size of a half-crown
piece, or such as, when the two shells are shut, will admit of a shilling rattling between them.

The liquor of the oyster contains incredible multitudes of small embryo oysters, covered with
little shells, perfectly transparent, swimming nimbly about. One hundred and twenty of these
in a row would extend one inch. Besides these young oysters, the liquor contains a great variety
of animalcules, five hundred times less in size, which emit a phosphoric light. The list of
inhabitants, however, does not conclude here, for besides these last mentioned, there are three
distinct species of worms (called the oyster-worm,) half an inch long, found in oysters, which
shine in the dark like glow-worms. The sea-star, cockles, and muscles, are the great enemies
of the oyster. The first gets within the shell when they gape, and sucks them out.

While the tide is flowing, oysters lie with the hollow side downwards, but when it ebbs they
turn on the other side.[6]

    [6] See Bishop Spratt on Oysters.

Swarming of Bees.

An interesting communication was read, at a recent sitting of the Royal Society, from T.A.
Knight, Esq. describing the precaution taken by a swarm of bees, in reconnoitering the situation
where they intend to establish their new colony, or swarm from the parent hive. The bees do
not go out in a considerable body, but they succeed each other in going and returning, until
the whole of the swarm have apparently made good the survey, after which the whole body take
their departure in a mass. If by any chance a large portion of a swarm take their departure
without the queen bee, they never proceed to take up the ulterior quarters without her majesty's
presence. The result of Mr. Knight's observations tends to prove, that all the operations of
a swarm of bees are dictated by previous concert, and the most systematic arrangement.

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC JOURNALS

LADDER OF LOVE.

  Men and women,--more or less,--
  Have minds o' the self-same metal, mould, and form!--
  Doth not the infant love to sport and laugh,
  And tie a kettle to a puppy's tail?--
  Doth not the dimpled girl her 'kerchief don
  (Mocking her elder) mantilla wise--then speed
  To mass and noontide visits; where are bandied
  Smooth gossip-words of sugared compliment?
  But when at budding womanhood arrived,
  She casts aside all childish games, nor thinks
  Of aught save some gay paranymph--who, caught
  In love's stout meshes, flutters round the door,
  And fondly beckons her away from home,--
  The whilst, her lady mother fain would cage
  The foolish bird within its narrow cell!--
  And then, the grandame idly wastes her breath,
  In venting saws 'bout maiden modesty--
  And strict decorum,--from some musty volume:
  But the clipp'd wings will quickly sprout again;
  And whilst the doating father thinks his child
  A paragon of worth and bashfulness,--
  Her thoughts are hovering round the precious form
  Of her sweet furnace-breathing Don Diego!--
  And he, all proof 'gainst dews and nightly blasts,
  In breathless expectation waits to see
  His panting Rosa at the postern door;--
  While she sighs forth "My gentle cavalier!"--
  And then they straightway fall to kissing hands,
  And antic-gestures--such as lovers use,--
  Expressive of their wish quickly to tie
  The gordian knot of marriage;--Pretty creatures!--
  But why not earlier to have thought of this?--
  When he, the innocent youth, was wont to play
  At coscogilla; and the prattling girl,
  Amid her nursery companions, toiled
  In sempstress labours for her wooden dolls.--
  Ah! wherefore, did I ask?--Because forsooth,
  Their ways are changed with their increasing years!--
  For when for gallantry the time be come--
  And when the stagnant blood begins to boil
  Within the veins, my master--then the lads
  Cast longing looks on damosels--for nature
  Defies restraint--and kin-birds flock together!--
  And think not, Master, Chance disposes thus;
  Or were it so, then chance directs us all--
  Whene'er we have attain'd the important age!
  I, ------, am a living instance!--
  Was I not once a lively laughing boy?
  And, in my stripling age, did I not love
  The pastimes suited to those madcap days?--
  Oh! would to heaven those times were present still!
  But wherefore fret myself with hopes so vain?--
  The silly thought doth find no shelter here,--
  That any beauty, with dark roguish eyes,
  With sparkling blood, and rising warmth of youth,
  Would e'er affect this wrinkled face of mine:--
  The very thought doth smack of foolishness!--
  And, though the truth may be a bitter pill,
  Yet,--
  It is most fitting that we know ourselves.

       Spanish Comedy--Foreign Review.

       *       *       *       *       *

A HINT TO RETIRING CITIZENS.

  Ye Cits who at White Conduit House,
  Hampstead or Holloway carouse,
    Let no vain wish disturb ye;
  For rural pleasures unexplored,
  Take those your Sabbath strolls afford,
    And prize your Rus in urbe.

  For many who from active trades
  Have plung'd into sequester'd shades,
    Will dismally assure ye,
  That it's a harder task to bear
  Th' ennui produced by country air,
    And sigh for Urbs in rure.

  The cub in prison born and fed,
  The bird that in a cage was bred,
    The hutch-engender'd rabbit,
  Are like the long-imprison'd Cit,
  For sudden liberty unfit,
    Degenerate by habit.

  Sir William Curtis, were he mew'd
  In some romantic solitude,
    A bower of rose and myrtle,
  Would find the loving turtle dove
  No succedaneum for his love
    Of London Tavern turtle.

  Sir Astley Cooper, cloy'd with wealth,
  Sick of luxurious ease and health,
    And rural meditation,
  Sighs for his useful London life,
  The restless night--the saw and knife
    Of daily amputation.

  Habit is second nature--when
  It supersedes the first, wise men
    Receive it as a warning,
  That total change comes then too late,
  And they must e'en assimilate
    Life's evening to its morning.

  Thrice happy he whose mind has sprung
  From Mammon's yoke while yet unwrung
    Or spoilt for nobler duty:--
  Who still can gaze on Nature's face
  With all a lover's zeal, and trace
    In every change a beauty.

  No tedium vitae round him lowers,
  The charms of contrast wing his hours,
    And every scene embellish:--
  From prison, City, care set free,
  He tastes his present liberty
    With keener zest and relish.

  New Monthly Mag.

         *       *       *       *       *

THE GATHERER.

  A snapper up of unconsidered trifles.

  SHAKSPEARE.

       *       *       *       *       *

ACCOMMODATION FOR THREE HALFPENCE.

A gentleman on a wet evening entered the bar of an inn, and while standing before the fire,
called to a servant girl who had come to receive his orders, "Margaret, bring me a glass of
ale, a clean pipe, a spitoon, a pair of snuffers, and the newspaper. And Margaret, take away
my great coat, carry it into the kitchen, and hang it before the fire to dry, and dry my umbrella,
and tell me what o'clock it is; and if Mr. Huggins should come in, request him to come this
way, for I think 'tis near seven, and he promised to meet me at that hour. And Margaret, get
me change for a sovereign, and see that all the change is good, take for the glass of ale out
of it, and put the coppers in a piece of paper. And Margaret, tell Jemima to bring some more
coals, take away the ashes, and wipe the table. And Margaret, pull down the blinds, shut the
door, and put-to the window-shutters."--N.B. The gentleman had his own tobacco.

       *       *       *       *       *

TWO EVILS, (EXTEMPORE.)

  Can man sustain a greater curse
  Than to possess an empty purse?
  Yes, with abundance to be blest,
  And not enjoy the pow'r to taste.

G.K.

       *       *       *       *       *

EPIGRAM, FROM THE GERMAN.

  If one has served thee, tell the deed to many?
  Hast thou served many?--tell it not to any.

J.L.S.

       *       *       *       *       *

A GENTLEMAN.

To tell the reader exactly what class of persons was meant to be designated by the word gentleman,
is a difficult task. The last time we heard it, was on visiting a stable to look at a horse,
when, inquiring for the coachman, his stable-keeper replied, "He has just stepped to the public-house
along with another gentleman."

The following is the negro's definition of a gentleman:--"Massa make de black man workee--make
de horse workee--make de ox workee--make every ting workee, only de hog: he, de hog, no workee;
he eat, he drink, he walk about, he go to sleep when he please, he liff like a GENTLEMAN."

       *       *       *       *       *

"VERY BAD."

Why are washer-women, busily engaged, like Adam and Eve in Paradise? Because they are so-apy
(so happy).

Why is a widower, going to be married, like Eau de Cologne? Because he is re-wiving.

Why is a vine like a soldier? Because it is listed and trained, has ten-drills, and shoots.

Why is a sailor, when at sea, not a sailor? Because he's a-board.

Why is a city gentleman, taken poorly in Grosvenor-square, like a recluse? Because he is sick-westward
(sequestered.)

Why is it better for a man to have two losses than one? Because the first is a loss, and the
second is a-gain.

"If Britannia rules the waves," said a qualmish writing-master, going to Margate last week
in a storm, "I wish she'd rule 'em straighter."-- Lit. Gaz.