The French Classical Romances Complete in Twenty Crown Octavo Volumes

Editor-in-Chief

EDMUND GOSSE, LL.D.

With Critical Introductions and Interpretative Essays by

HENRY JAMES  PROF. RICHARD BURTON  HENRY HARLAND

ANDREW LANG  PROF. F. C. DE SUMICHRAST

THE EARL OF CREWE  HIS EXCELLENCY M. CAMBON

PROF. WM. P. TRENT  ARTHUR SYMONS  MAURICE HEWLETT

DR. JAMES FITZMAURICE-KELLY  RICHARD MANSFIELD

BOOTH TARKINGTON  DR. RICHARD GARNETT

PROF. WILLIAM M. SLOANE  JOHN OLIVER HOBBES

DE GONCOURT

RENÉE MAUPERIN

Translated from the French by Alys Hallard

With a Critical Introduction by James Fitzmaurice-Kelly

A Frontispiece and Numerous Other Portraits with Descriptive Notes by Octave Uzanne

P. F. Collier & Son New York

Copyright, 1902 by D. Appleton & Company

EDMOND AND JULES DE GONCOURT

I

The partnership of Edmond and Jules de Goncourt is probably the most curious and perfect example
of collaboration recorded in literary history. The brothers worked together for twenty-two
years, and the amalgam of their diverse talents was so complete that, were it not for the information
given by the survivor, it would be difficult to guess what each brought to the work which bears
their names. Even in the light of these confidences, it is no easy matter to attempt to separate
or disengage their literary personalities. The two are practically one. Jamais âme pareille
n'a été mise en deux corps. This testimony is their own, and their testimony is true. The result
is the more perplexing when we remember that these two brothers were, so to say, men of different
races. The elder was a German from Lorraine, the younger was an inveterate Latin Parisian:
"the most absolute difference of temperaments, tastes, and characters--and absolutely the same
ideas, the same personal likes and dislikes, the same intellectual vision." There may be, as
there probably always will be, two opinions as to the value of their writings; there can be
no difference of view concerning their intense devotion to literature, their unhesitating rejection
of all that might distract them from their vocation. They spent a small fortune in collecting
materials for works that were not to find two hundred readers; they passed months, and more
months, in tedious researches the results of which were condensed into a single page; they
resigned most of life's pleasures and all its joys to dedicate themselves totally to the office
of their election. So they lived--toiling, endeavouring, undismayed, confident in their integrity
and genius, unrewarded by one accepted triumph, uncheered by a single frank success or even
by any considerable recognition. The younger Goncourt died of his failure before he was forty;
the elder underwent almost the same monotony of defeat during nearly thirty years of life that
remained to him. But both continued undaunted, and, if we consider what manner of men they
were and how dear fame was to them, the constancy of their ambition becomes all the more admirable.

Despising, or affecting to despise, the general verdict of their contemporaries, they loved
to declare that they wrote for their own personal pleasure, for an audience of a dozen friends,
or for the delight of a distant posterity; and, when the absence of all appreciation momentarily
weighed them down, they vainly imagined that the acquisition of a new bibelot consoled them.
No doubt the passion of the collector was strong in them: so strong that Edmond half forgot
his grief for his brother and his terror of the Commune in the pursuit of first editions: so
strong that the chances of a Prussian bomb shattering his storehouse of treasures--the Maison
d'un artiste--at Auteuil saddened him more than the dismemberment of France. But, even so,
the idea that the Goncourts could in any circumstances subordinate literature to any other
interest was the merest illusion. Nothing in the world pleased them half so well as the sight
of their own words in print. The arrival of a set of proof-sheets on the 1st of January was
to them the best possible augury for the new year; the sight of their names on the placards
outside the theatres and the booksellers' shops enraptured them; and Edmond, then well on in
years, confesses that he thrice stole downstairs, half-clad, in the March dawn, to make sure
that the opening chapters of Chérie were really inserted in the Gaulois. These were their few
rewards, their only victories. They were fain to be content with such small things--la petite
monnaie de la gloire. Still they were persuaded that time was on their side, and, assured as
they were of their literary immortality, they chafed at the suggestion that the most splendid
renown must grow dim within a hundred thousand years. Was so poor a laurel worth the struggle?
This was the whole extent of their misgiving.

Baffled at every point, the Goncourts were unable to account for the unbroken series of disasters
which befell them; yet the explanation is not far to seek. For one thing, they attempted so
much, so continuously, in so many directions, and in such quick succession, that their very
versatility and diligence laid them under suspicion. They were not content to be historians,
or philosophers, or novelists, or dramatists, or art critics: they would be all and each of
these at once. In every branch of intellectual effort they asserted their claims to be regarded
as innovators, and therefore as leaders. Within a month they published Germinie Lacerteux and
an elaborate study on Fragonard; and, while they plumed themselves (as they very well might)
on their feat, the average intelligent reader joined with the average intelligent critic in
concluding that such various accomplishment must needs be superficial. It was not credible
that one and the same pair--par nobile fratrum--could be not only close observers of contemporary
life, but also authorities on Watteau and Outamaro, on Marie Antoinette and Mlle. Clairon.
To admit this would be to emphasize the limitations of all other men of letters. Again, the
uncanny element of chance which enters into every enterprise was constantly hostile to the
Goncourts. They not only published incessantly: they somehow contrived to publish at inopportune
moments--at times when the public interest was turned from letters to politics. Their first
novel appeared on the very day of Napoleon III's Coup d'état, and their publisher even refused
to advertise the book lest the new authorities should see in the title of En 18--a covert allusion
to the 18th Brumaire. It would have been a pleasing stroke of irony had the Ministry of the
16th of May been supported by the country as it was supported by Edmond de Goncourt, for that
Ministry intended to prosecute him as the author of La Fille Élisa. La Faustin was issued on
the morning of Gambetta's downfall; and the seventh volume of the Journal des Goncourt had
barely been published a few hours when the news of Carnot's assassination reached Paris. Lastly,
the personal qualities of the brothers--their ostentation of independence, their attitude of
supercilious superiority, and, most of all, their fatal gift of irony--raised up innumerable
enemies and alienated both actual and possible friends. They gave no quarter and they received
none. All this is extremely human and natural; but the Goncourts, being nervous invalids as
well as born fighters, suffered acutely from what they regarded as the universal disloyalty
of their comrades.

They could not realize that their writings contained much to displease men of all parties,
and, living at war with literary society, they sullenly cultivated their morbid sensibility.
The simplest trifle stung them into frenzies of inconsistency and hallucination. To-day they
denounced the liberty of the press; to-morrow they raged at finding themselves the victims
of a Government prosecution. Withal their ferocious wit, there was not a ray of sunshine in
their humour, and, instead of smiling at the discomfiture of a dull official, they brooded
till their imaginations magnified these petty police-court proceedings into the tragedy of
a supreme martyrdom. Years afterward they continually return to the subject, noting with exasperated
complacency that the only four men in France who were seriously concerned with letters and
art--Baudelaire, Flaubert, and themselves--had been dragged before the courts; and they ended
by considering their little lawsuit as one of the historic state trials of the world. Henceforth,
in every personal matter--and their art was intensely personal--they lost all sense of proportion,
believing that there was a vast Semitic plot to stifle Manette Salomon and that the President
had brought pressure on the censor to forbid an adaptation of one of their novels being put
upon the boards. Monarchy, Empire, Republic, Right, Centre, Left--no shade of political thought,
no public man, no legislative measure, ever chanced to please them. They sought for the causes
of their failure in others: it never occurred to them that the fault lay in themselves. Their
minds were twin whirlpools of chaotic opinions. Revolutionaries in arts and letters as they
claimed to be, they detested novelties in religion, politics, medicine, science, abstract speculation.
It never struck them that it was incongruous, not to say absurd, to claim complete liberty
for themselves and to denounce ministers for attempting to extend the far more restricted liberty
of others. And as with the ordering of their lives, so with their art and all that touched
it. Unable to conciliate or to compromise, they were conspicuously successful in stimulating
the general prejudice against themselves. They paraded their self-contradictions with a childish
pride of paradox. In one breath they deplored the ignorance of a public too uncultivated to
appreciate them; in another breath they proclaimed that every government which strives to diminish
illiteracy is digging its own grave. Priding themselves on the thoroughness of their own investigations,
they belittled the results of learning in others, mocked at the superficial labour of the Benedictines,
ridiculed the inartistic surroundings of Sainte-Beuve and Renan, and protested that antiquity
was nothing but an inept invention to enable professors to earn their daily bread. Not content
with asserting the superiority of Diderot to Voltaire, they pronounced the Abbé Trublet to
be the acutest critic who flourished during that eighteenth century which they had come to
consider as their exclusive property. Resolute conservatives in theory, piquing themselves
on their descent, their personal elegance, their tact and refinement, these worshippers of
Marie Antoinette admired the talent shown by Hébert in his infamous Père Duchêne, and then
went on to lament the influence of socialism on literature. They were papalini who sympathized
with Garibaldi; they looked forward to a repetition of '93, and almost welcomed it as a deliverance
from the respectable uniformity of their own time; they trusted to the working men--masons,
house-painters, carpenters, navvies--to regenerate an effete civilization and to save society
as the barbarians had saved it in earlier centuries. Whatever the value of these views, they
can scarcely have found favour among those who rallied to the Second Empire and who imagined
that the Goncourts were a pair of firebrands: whereas, in fact, they were petulant, impulsive
men of talent, smarting under neglect.

If we were so ingenuous as to take their statements seriously, we might refuse to admit their
right to find any place in French literature. For, though it would be easy to quote passages
in which they contemn the cosmopolitan spirit, it would be no less easy to set against these
their assertions that they are ashamed of being French; that they are no more French than the
Abbé Galiani, the Prince de Ligne, or Heine; that they will renounce their nationality, settle
in Holland or Belgium, and there found a journal in which they can speak their minds. These
are wild, whirling words: the politics of literary men are on a level with the literature of
politicians. On their own showing, it does not appear that the Goncourts were in any way fettered.
The sum of their achievement, as they saw it, is recorded in a celebrated passage of the preface
to Chérie: "La recherche du vrai en littérature, la résurrection de l'art du XVIIIe siècle,
la victoire du japonisme." These words are the words of Jules de Goncourt, but Edmond makes
them his own. If the brothers were entitled to claim--as they repeatedly claimed--to be held
for the leaders of these "three great literary and artistic movements of the second half of
the nineteenth century," it is clear that they were justified in thinking that the future must
reckon with them. It is equally clear that, if their title proves good, their environment was
much less unfavourable than they assumed it to be.

The conclusion is that their sublime egotism disabled them from forming a judicial judgment
on any question in which they were personally concerned. They never attempted to reason, to
compare, to balance; their minds were filled with the vapour of tumultuous impressions which
condensed at different periods into dogmas, and were succeeded by fresh condensations from
the same source. But, amid all changes, their self-esteem was constant. They had no hesitation
in setting Dunant's Souvenir de Solférino above the Iliad; but when Taine implied that he was
somewhat less interested in Madame Gervaisais than in the writings of Santa Teresa, they were
startled at his boldness. And, to define their position more precisely, Edmond confidently
declares (among many other strange sayings) that the fifth act of La Patrie en Danger contains
scenes more dramatically poignant than anything in Shakespeare, and that in La Maison d'un
Artiste au XIXe Siècle he takes under his control--though he candidly avows that none but himself
suspects it--a capital movement in the history of mankind. These are extremely high pretensions,
repeatedly renewed in one form or another--in prefaces, manifestos, articles, letters, conversation,
and, above all, in nine invaluable volumes which consist of extracts from a diary covering
a period of over forty years. This extraordinary record incidentally embodies the rough sketches
of the Goncourts' finished work, but its interest is far wider and more essentially characteristic.
Other men have written confessions, memoirs, reminiscences, by the score: mostly books composed
long after the events which they relate, recollections revised, reviewed in the light of after
events. The Goncourts are perhaps alone in daring to unbosom themselves with an absolute sincerity
of their emotions, intentions, aims. If they come forth damaged from such a trial, it is fair
to remember that the test is unique, and that no other writers have ever approached them in
courage and in what they most valued--truth: la recherche du vrai en littérature.

II

A most authoritative critic, M. Brunetière, has laid it down that there is more truth, more
fidelity to the facts of actual life, in any single romance by Ponson du Terrail or by Gaboriau
than in all the works of the Goncourts put together, and so long as we leave truth undefined,
this opinion may be as tenable as any other. But it may be well to observe at the outset that
the creative work of the Goncourts is not to be condemned or praised en bloc, for the simple
reason that it is not a spontaneous, uniform product, but the resultant of diverse forces varying
in direction and intensity from time to time. They themselves have recorded that there are
three distinct stages in their intellectual evolution. Beginning, under the influence of Heine
and Poe, with purely imaginative conceptions, they rebounded to the extremest point of realism
before determining on the intermediate method of presenting realistic pictures in a poetic
light. Pure imagination in the domain of contemporary fiction seemed to them defective, inasmuch
as its processes are austerely logical, while life itself is compact of contradictions; and
their first reaction from it was entirely natural, on their own principles. It remains to be
seen what sense should be attached to the formula--la recherche du vrai en littérature--in
which they summarized their position as regards their predecessors.

Obviously we have to deal with a question of interpretation. The Goncourts did not--could not--pretend
that they were the first to introduce truth into literature: they merely professed to have
attained it by a different route. The innovation for which they claimed credit is a matter
of method, of technique. Their deliberate purpose is to surprise us by the fidelity of their
studies, to captivate and convince us by an accumulation of exact minutiæ: in a word, to prove
that truth is more interesting than fiction. So history should be written, and so they wrote
it. First and last, whatever form they chose, they remained historians. Alleging the example
set by Plutarch and Saint-Simon, they make their histories of the eighteenth century a mine
of anecdote, a pageant of picturesque situations. State-papers, blue-books, ministerial despatches,
are in their view the conventional means used for hoodwinking simpletons and forwarding the
interests of a triumphant faction. The most valuable historical material is, as they believed,
to be sought in the autograph letter. They held that the secret of the craftiest intriguer
will escape him, despite himself, in the expansion of confidential correspondence. The research
for such correspondence is to be supplemented by the study of sculpture, paintings, engravings,
furniture, broadsides, bills--all of them indispensable for the reconstruction of a past age
and for the right understanding of its psychology. But these means are simply complementary.
The chief vehicle of authentic truth is the autograph letter, and, though they professed to
hold the historical novel in abhorrence, they applied their historical methods to their records
of contemporary life. Thus we inevitably arrive at the famous theory of the document humain--a
phrase received with much derision when first publicly used in the preface to La Faustin, and
a theory conscientiously adopted by many later novelists. And here, again, it is important
to realize the restricted extent of the authors' claim.

The Goncourts draw a broad, primary distinction between ancient and modern literature: the
first deals mainly with generalities, the second with details. They then proceed to establish
an analogous distinction between novels written before and after Balzac's time, the modern
novel being based on des documents racontés, ou relevés d'après nature, precisely as formal
history is based on des documents écrits. But they make no pretence of having initiated the
revolution; their share was limited to continuing Balzac's tradition, to enlarging the field
of observation, and especially to multiplying the instruments of research. They declared that
Gautier had, so to say, endowed literature with vision; that Fromentin, in describing the silence
of the desert, had revealed the literary value of hearing; that with Zola, Loti--and they might
surely have added Maupassant--a fresh sense was brought into play: c'est le nez qui entre en
scène. Their personal contribution was their nervous sensibility: les premiers nous avons été
les écrivains des nerfs. And they were prouder of this morbid quality than of their talent.
They were ever on the watch for fragments of talk caught up in drawing-rooms, in restaurants,
on omnibuses: ever ready to take notes at death-beds, church, or taverns. Their life was one
long pursuit of l'imprévu, le décousu, l'illogique du vrai. These observations they transcribed
at night while the impression was still acute, and these they utilized more or less deftly
as they advanced towards what they rightly thought to be the goal of art: the perfect adjustment
of proportion between the real and the imagined.

It would seem that we are now in a position to judge the Goncourts by their own standard. Le
dosage juste de la littérature et de la vie--this formula recurs in one shape or another as
a leading principle, and it is supplemented by other still more emphatic indications which
should serve to supply a test. Unhappily, with the Goncourts these indications are unsystematic
and even contradictory. The elder brother has naturally no hesitation in saying that the highest
gift of any writer is his power of creating on paper real beings--comme des êtres créés par
Dieu, et comme ayant eu une vraie vie sur la terre--and he is bold enough to add that Shakespeare
himself has failed to create more than two or three personages. He protests energetically against
the academic virtues, and insists on the importance of forming a personal style which shall
reproduce the vivacity, brio, and feverish activity of the best talk. It is, then, all the
more disconcerting to learn from another passage in the Journal that the creation of characters
and the discovery of an original form of expression are matters of secondary moment. The truth
is that if the Goncourts had, as they believed, something new to say, it was inevitable that
they should seek to invent a new manner of utterance. Renan was doubtless right in thinking
that they were absolutely without ideas on abstract subjects; but they were exquisitely susceptible
to every shade and tone of concrete objects, and the endeavour to convey their innumerable
impressions taxed the resources of that French vocabulary on whose relative poverty they so
often insist. The reproaches brought against them in the matter of verbal audacities by every
prominent critic, from Sainte-Beuve in one camp to Pontmartin in the other, are so many testimonies
to the fact that they were innovators--apporteurs du neuf--and that their intrepidity cost
them dear. Still their boldness in this respect has been generally exaggerated. Setting out
as imitators of two such different models as Gautier and Jules Janin, they slowly acquired
an individual manner--the manner, say, of Germinie Lacerteux or Manette Salomon--but they never
attained the formula which they had conceived as final. It was not given to them to realize
their ambition--to write novels which should not contain a single bookish expression, plays
which should reveal that hitherto undiscoverable quantity--colloquial speech, raised to the
level of consummate art. The famous écriture artiste remained an unfulfilled ideal. The expression,
first used in the preface to Les Frères Zemganno, merely foreshadows a possible development
of style which shall come into being when realism or naturalism, ceasing to describe the ignoble,
shall occupy itself with the attempt to render refinements, reticences, subtleties, and half-tones
of a more elusive order. It is an aspiration, a counsel of perfection offered to a younger
school by an artist in experiment, who declares the quest to be beyond his powers. It is nothing
more.

