Parma lies outside the route of the ordinary tourist, and the treasures of its gallery and
churches are still unsuspected by many. It is hoped that this little collection of pictures
may arouse a new interest in the great Emilian. The selections are about equally divided between
the frescoes of Parma and the easel paintings scattered through the various European galleries.

ESTELLE M. HURLL.

NEW BEDFORD, MASS.

December, 1901.     OUTLINE TABLE OF THE PRINCIPAL EVENTS IN CORREGGIO'S LIFE

V.      LIST OF CONTEMPORARY PAINTERS

I.      THE HOLY NIGHT (DETAIL)
        Picture from Carbon Print by Braun, Clément & Co.

II.     St. Catherine Reading
        Picture from Photograph by Francis Ellis and W. Hayward, London

III.    THE MARRIAGE OF ST. CATHERINE
        Picture from Carbon Print by Braun, Clément & Co.

IV.     CEILING DECORATION IN THE SALA DEL PERGOLATO (HALL OF THE VINE
            TRELLIS)
        Picture from Photograph by Fratelli Alinari

V.      DIANA
        Picture from Photograph by Fratelli Alinari

VI.     ST. JOHN THE EVANGELIST
        Picture from Photograph by Fratelli Alinari

VII.    ST. JOHN AND ST. AUGUSTINE
        Picture from Photograph by D. Anderson

VIII.   ST. MATTHEW AND ST. JEROME
        Picture from Photograph by Fratelli Alinari of the painting in
            water color by P. Toschi

IX.     THE REST ON THE RETURN FROM EGYPT (MADONNA DELLA SCODELLA)
        Picture from Photograph by Fratelli Alinari

X.      ECCE HOMO
        Picture from Carbon Print by Braun, Clément & Co.

XI.   CHRIST APPEARING TO MARY MAGDALENE IN THE GARDEN (NOLI ME TANGERE)
        Picture from Carbon Print by Braun, Clément & Co.

XIV.    THE MADONNA OF ST. JEROME
        Picture from Carbon Print by Braun, Clément & Co.

XV.     CUPID SHARPENING HIS ARROWS (DETAIL OF DANAË)
        Picture from Photograph by Fratelli Alinari

XVI.    A SUPPOSED PORTRAIT OF CORREGGIO

        PRONOUNCING VOCABULARY OF PROPER NAMES AND FOREIGN WORDS

       *       *       *       *       *

INTRODUCTION

I. ON CORREGGIO'S CHARACTER AS AN ARTIST.

The art of Correggio was very justly summed up by his first biographer, Vasari. After pointing
out that in the matter of drawing and composition the artist would scarcely have won a reputation,
the writer goes on to say: "To Correggio belongs the great praise of having attained the highest
point of perfection in coloring, whether his works were executed in oil or in fresco." In another
place he writes, "No artist has handled the colors more effectually than himself, nor has any
painted with a more charming manner or given a more perfect relief to his figures." Color and
chiaroscuro were undoubtedly, as Vasari indicates, the two features of his art in which Correggio
achieved his highest triumphs, and if some others had equalled or even surpassed him in the
first point, none before him had ever solved so completely the problems of light and shadow.

Not only did he understand how to throw the separate figures of the picture into relief, giving
them actual bodily existence, but he mastered as well the disposition of light and shade in
the whole composition. To quote Burckhardt, "In Correggio first, chiaroscuro becomes essential
to the general expression of a pictorially combined whole; the stream of lights and reflections
gives exactly the right expression to the special moment in nature."

The quality of Correggio's artistic temperament was essentially joyous.[1] The beings of his
creation delight in life and movement; their faces are wreathed with perpetual smiles. Hence
childhood and youth were the painter's favorite subjects. The subtleties of character study
did not interest him; and for this reason he failed in representing old age. He was perhaps
at his best among that race of sprites which his own imagination invented, creatures without
a sense of responsibility, glad merely to be alive.

[Footnote 1: Tradition says that the temperament of the man himself was exactly the reverse
of that of the artist, being timid and melancholy.]

This temperament explains why the artist contented himself with so little variety in his types.
We need not wonder at the monotony of the Madonna's face. She is happy, and this is all the
painter required of her psychically. He took no thought even to make her beautiful: the tribute
he offered her was the technical excellence of his art,--the exquisite color with which he
painted flesh and drapery, the modulations of light playing over cheek and neck. With hair
and hands he took especial pains, and these features often redeem otherwise unattractive figures.

In his predilection for happy subjects Correggio reminds us of Raphael. The two men shrank
equally from the painful. But where the Umbrian's ideal of happiness was tranquil and serene,
Correggio's was exuberant and ecstatic. Raphael indeed was almost Greek in his sense of repose,
while Correggio had a passion for motion. "He divines, knows and paints the finest movements
of nervous life," says Burckhardt.

Even when he sought to portray a figure in stable equilibrium, he unwittingly gave it a wavering
pose; witness the insecurity of Joseph in the Madonna della Scodella, and of St. Jerome in
the Madonna bearing his name. Usually he preferred some momentary attitude caught in the midst
of action. In this characteristic the painter was allied to Michelangelo, the keynote of whose
art is action.

It is a curious fact that two artists of such opposed natures--the one so light-hearted, the
other burdened with the prophet's spirit--should have so much in common in their decorative
methods. Both understood the decorative value of the nude, and found their supreme delight
in bodily motion. In a common zeal for exploiting the manifold possibilities of the human figure,
the two fell into similar errors of exaggeration. In point of design Correggio cannot be compared
with Michelangelo. He was utterly incapable of the sweeping lines characteristic of the great
Florentine. He seldom achieved any success in the flow of drapery, and often his disposition
of folds is very clumsy.

It is interesting to fancy what Correggio's art might have been had he been free to choose
his own subjects. Limited, as he was, in his most important commissions, to the well-worn cycle
of ecclesiastical themes, he could not work out all the possibilities of his genius. Nevertheless,
he infused into the old themes an altogether new spirit, the spirit of his own individuality.
It is a spirit which we call distinctly modern, yet it is as old as paganism.

Among the works of the old Italian masters, Correggio's art is so anomalous that it has inevitably
called forth detractors. What to his admirers is mere childlike sweetness is condemned as "sentimentality,"
innocent playfulness as "frivolity," exuberance of vitality as "sensuality." Certainly there
is nothing didactic in his art. "Space and light and motion were what Antonio Allegri of Correggio
most longed to express,"[2] and to these aims he subordinated all motives of spiritual significance.
One of his severest critics (Burckhardt) has conceded that "he is the first to represent entirely
and completely the reality of genuine nature." He, then, who is a lover of genuine nature in
her most subtle beauties of "space and light and motion," cannot fail to delight in Correggio.

[Footnote 2: E. H. Blashfield in Italian Cities.]

II. ON BOOKS OF REFERENCE.

The first biographer of Correggio was Vasari, in whose "Lives of the Painters, Sculptors, and
Architects" is included a brief account of this painter. The student should read this work
in the last edition annotated by E. H. and E. W. Blashfield and A. A. Hopkins. Passing over
the studies of the intervening critics, Julius Meyer's biography may be mentioned next, as
an authoritative work, practically alone in the field for some twenty-five years. This was
translated from the German by M. C. Heaton, and published in London in 1876. Finally, the recent
biography by Signor Corrado Ricci (translated from the Italian by Florence Simmonds, and published
in 1896) may be considered almost definitive. It is issued in a single large volume, profusely
illustrated. The author is the director of the galleries of Parma, and has had every opportunity
for the study of Correggio's works and the examination of documents bearing upon his life.

General handbooks of Italian art giving sketches of Correggio's life and work are Kugler's
"Handbook of the Italian Schools," revised by A. H. Layard, and Mrs. Jameson's "Early Italian
Painters," revised by Estelle M. Hurll.

For a critical estimate of the art of Correggio a chapter in Burckhardt's "Cicerone" is interesting
reading, but the book is out of print and available only in large libraries. In "Italian Cities,"
by E. H. and E. W. Blashfield, a delightful chapter on Parma describes Correggio's works and
analyzes his art methods. Morelli's "Italian Painters" contains in various places some exceedingly
important contributions to the criticism of Correggio's works. The author's repudiation of
the authenticity of the Reading Magdalen of the Dresden Gallery has been accepted by all subsequent
writers.

Comments on Correggio are found in Symonds's volume on "The Fine Arts" in the series "The Renaissance
in Italy," and are also scattered through the pages of Ruskin's "Modern Painters" and Hazlitt's
"Essays on the Fine Arts." The volume on Correggio in the series "Great Masters in Painting
and Sculpture" is valuable chiefly for a complete list of Correggio's works. The text is based
on Ricci.[3]

[Footnote 3: As this book goes to press Bernard Berenson's "The Study and Criticism of Italian
Art" makes its appearance. A portion of it is devoted to the study of Correggio.]

III. HISTORICAL DIRECTORY OF THE PICTURES OF THIS COLLECTION.

Portrait frontispiece. From a photograph of an alleged portrait of Correggio in the Parma Gallery.

1. The Holy Night.(La Notte.) (Detail.) Painted at the order of Alberto Pratoneri for the altar
of his chapel in the church of S. Prospero, Reggio. Agreement signed October 10, 1522. Stolen
from the church May, 1640, and taken to Modena. Now in the Dresden Gallery. Size of whole picture:
8 ft. 5 in. by 6 ft. 2 in.

2. St. Catherine Reading. Conjectural date, 1526-1528. In Hampton Court Gallery. Size: 2 ft.
1 in. by 1 ft. 8 in.

3. The Marriage of St. Catherine. Date, according to Meyer, 1517-1519; according to Ricci,
after 1522. Painted for the Grillenzoni family of Modena. After several transfers it came into
the possession of Cardinal Mazarin, from whose heirs it was acquired for Louis XIV.'s collection
and hence became a permanent possession of the Louvre Gallery, Paris. Size: 3 ft. 5-1/3 in.
by 3 ft. 4 in.

4 and 5. Ceiling Decoration, and Diana, in the Sala del Pergolata, Convent of S. Paolo, Parma.
Frescoes painted in 1518.

6, 7, and 8. St. John the Evangelist, St. John and St. Augustine, St. Mark and St. Jerome.
Frescoes in the church of S. Giovanni Evangelista, Parma. Painted 1520-1525.

9. The Rest on the Return from Egypt. (La Madonna della Scodella.) According to Pungileoni
painted 1527-1528; according to Ricci, 1529-1530. The frame containing the picture is supposed
to have been designed by Correggio himself. It bears the date 1530, when the picture was placed
in the church of S. Sepolcro, Parma. Taken as French booty in 1796, but returned to Parma in
1816. Now in the Parma Gallery. Size: 7 ft. 3 in. by 4 ft. 6 in.

10. Ecce Homo. According to Ricci, painted during a visit to Correggio, 1521-1522; probably
first belonged to the Counts Prati, of Parma. In the seventeenth century there were three pictures
of the subject in Italy claiming to be the original. This picture was formerly in the Colonna
family; now in the National Gallery, London. Size: 3 ft. 2-1/2 in. by 2 ft. 7-1/2 in.

11 and 12. Apostles and Genii, and St. John the Baptist. Frescoes in the Cathedral of Parma.
Painted 1524-1530.

13. Christ appearing to Mary Magdalene in the Garden. (Noli me tangere.) Assigned by Ricci
to 1524-1526. Described by Vasari as the property of the Ercolani family of Bologna. Passing
from one owner to another, it was finally presented to Philip IV. of Spain, and is now in the
Prado Gallery, Madrid. Size: 1 ft. 3-1/3 in. by 1 ft. 6-1/2 in.

14. The Madonna of St. Jerome. (Il Giorno.) Ordered in 1523 by Donna Briseide Colla, for the
church of S. Antonio, Parma. Painted 1527-1528, according to Ricci. After the destruction of
this church it was placed in the Cathedral for safety. Seized by Napoleon in 1796. Finally
returned to Parma, and now in the Parma Gallery. Size: 4 ft. 8 in. by 6 ft. 10 in.

15. Cupid sharpening his Arrow. (Detail of Danaë.) Ordered (1530-1533) by Federigo II., Duke
of Mantua, as a gift for the Emperor Charles V. After passing through many hands it came in
1823 into the possession of the Borghese family, and is now in the Borghese Gallery, Rome.
Size of whole picture, 5 ft. 4 in. by 6 ft. 5 in.

IV. OUTLINE TABLE OF THE PRINCIPAL EVENTS IN CORREGGIO'S LIFE.

Compiled from Ricci's Correggio, to which the references to pages apply.

1494. Antonio Allegri born at Correggio.

1511-1513. Probably in Mantua (p. 69).

1515. Madonna of St. Francis (p. 94).

1518. In Parma executing the frescoes of San Paolo, April-December (p. 152).

1520. Invitation to Parma from the Benedictines (p. 153). Marriage with Girolama Merlini (p. 185).

1520-1525. At work on frescoes of S. Giovanni Evangelista, Parma, with interruptions as noted
below (pp. 189-195).

July, 1521-Spring, 1522. In Correggio (pp. 194, 195), and probable execution of the Ecce Homo,
Christ in Garden, and Noli me tangere (p. 226).

1521. Birth of son Pomponio, September 3 (p. 185).

1522. Visit to Reggio and commission for the Nativity (La Notte) October (pp. 195, 294). Commission
for frescoes of Parma Cathedral, November (p. 250).

1523. Visit in Correggio (p. 195). Order for Madonna of St. Jerome (p. 278).

1524. Last payment for frescoes of S. Giovanni (p. 190). Birth of daughter Francesca Letizia,
December 6 (p. 185).

1524-1530. Work on frescoes of the Parma Cathedral, interrupted by visits to Correggio, as
noted below (p. 273).

1525. Visits to Correggio in February and August (p. 274). Madonna of St. Sebastian painted
for Confraternity of St. Sebastian at Modena (p. 275).

1526. Birth of daughter Caterina Lucrezia (p. 185).

1527. Visits in Correggio (p. 274).

Circa 1528. Birth of daughter Anna Geria (p. 185).

1528. Visit in Correggio in summer (p. 274).

1529. Death of wife (p. 185).

1530-1534. In Correggio (p. 307). Mythological pictures for Federigo Gonzaga (p. 311).

1534. Death of Allegri, March 5 (p. 326).

V. LIST OF CONTEMPORARY ITALIAN PAINTERS.

Vincenzo Catena, Venetian, 1470-1532. Michelangelo, Florentine, 1475-1564. Lorenzo Lotto, Venetian,
circa 1476-1555. Bazzi (Il Sodoma), Sienese, 1477-1549. Giorgione, Venetian, 1477-1510. Titian,
Venetian, 1477-1576. Palma Vecchio, Venetian, 1480-1528. Lotto, Venetian, 1480-1558. Raphael,
Umbrian, 1483-1520. Pordenone, Venetian, 1484-1539. Bagnacavallo, Bolognese, 1484-1542. Gaudenzio
Ferrari, Milanese, 1484-1549. Sebastian del Piombo, Venetian, 1485-1547. Andrea del Sarto,
Florentine, 1486-1531. Bonifazio Veneziano, Venetian, circa 1490-1540. Cima da Conegliano,
Venetian, 1493-1517. Pontormo, Florentine, 1493-1558. Moretto, Brescian, 1500-1547. Bronzino,
Florentine, 1502-1572. Basaiti, Venetian, first record, 1503-last record, 1520.

I

THE HOLY NIGHT (LA NOTTE) (Detail)

In the northern part of Italy is the little town of Correggio, which gave its name to the painter
whose works we are to study. His real name was Antonio Allegri, but in the sixteenth century
a man would often be called by a nickname referring to some peculiarity, or to his birthplace.
When Allegri went to Parma he was known as Antonio da Correggio, that is, Antonio from Correggio,
and the name was then shortened to Correggio.

A large part of Correggio's work was mural decoration, painted on the surface of the plastered
wall. Besides such frescoes he painted many separate pictures, mostly of sacred subjects to
be hung over the altars of churches. The choice of subjects was much more limited in his day
than now, and, with the exception of a few mythological paintings, all Correggio's themes were
religious. The subject most often called for was that of the Madonna and Child. Madonna is
the word, meaning literally My Lady, used by the Italians when speaking of Mary, the mother
of Jesus. The Madonna and Child is then a picture of the mother Mary holding the Christ-child.

Our illustration is from such a picture called "La Notte," the Italian for The Night. The night
meant by the title is that on which Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judæa. It was at a time
known in history as the Augustan Age, when Rome was the great world-power. Judæa was only an
obscure province of the vast Roman Empire, but here was the origin of the influence which was
to shape later history. The coming of Jesus brought a new force into the world.

The story of his infancy has been made familiar by the four Evangelists. He was born in surroundings
which, in Roman eyes, were fit only for slaves. Mary and Joseph had come up from their own
home to Bethlehem to pay the taxes exacted at Rome. The town was full of people on the same
errand, and "there was no room for them in the inn." So it came about that the new-born babe
was wrapped in swaddling clothes and laid in a manger used for feeding cattle.

While he lay in this strange cradle his birth was made known by a vision of angels to some
shepherds on the neighboring hillsides. At once they betook themselves joyfully to Bethlehem,
the first to do honor to the new-born king. These homely visitors are gathered about the manger
in Correggio's picture. The dark night is without, but a dazzling white light shines from the
Holy Child.

Our illustration shows only the centre of the picture, where the mother leans over her babe.
The little form lies on a bundle of hay, completely encircled by her arms. The bend of her
elbow makes a soft pillow for his head; her hands hold him fast in the snug nest. With brooding
tenderness she regards the sleeping child.

A white cloth is wrapped loosely about the baby's body--the swaddling band, which, when tightly
drawn, is to hold the figure straight. The fingers of one hand peep out from the folds, and
one little foot is free. For the rest we see only the downy top of the baby's head and one
plump shoulder. The little figure glows lite an incandescent body, and the mother's face is
lighted as if she were bending over a fire. It is a girlish face, for we are told that Mary
was a very young mother. The cares of life have not yet touched the smooth brow. In her happiness
she smiles fondly upon her new treasure.

We have no authentic description of Mary, the mother of Jesus, but it is pleasant to try to
picture her in imagination. As her character was a model of womanliness, it is natural to believe
her face correspondingly beautiful. The old masters spent their lives in seeking an ideal worthy
of the subject, and each one conceived her according to his own standards of beauty. Correggio's
chief care was for the hair and hands, which he painted, as we see here, with exquisite skill.
He was usually less interested in the other features, and the Madonna of our picture is exceptionally
lovely among his works of this kind.

The picture of La Notte illustrates very strikingly an artistic quality for which Correggio
is famous. This is chiaroscuro, or the art of light and shadow,--the art by which the objects
and figures of a picture are made to seem enveloped in light and air, as in the actual world.
The contrast between the bright light in the centre and the surrounding darkness gives vivid
reality to the figures. There is also a symbolic meaning in the lighting of the picture. Christ
is "the light of the world;" hence his form is the source of illumination.

Our picture was originally called by the simple title of The Nativity. Then the Italians, struck
by the power with which the effect of midnight was produced, called it "La Notte," The Night.
When it came to a German gallery the Germans called it "Die Heilige Nacht," The Holy Night.
An old German Christmas carol interprets it so perfectly that it seems as if the author must
have known the picture. These are the verses:--

    "Silent night! Holy Night!
    All is calm, all is bright
    Round you, virgin mother and child;
    Holy infant, so tender and mild,
    Sleep in heavenly peace,
    Sleep in heavenly peace.

    "Silent Night! Holy Night!
    Shepherds quake at the sight.
    Glories stream from Heaven afar,
    Heavenly hosts sing alleluia.
    Christ the Saviour is born!
    Christ the Saviour is born!

    "Silent Night! Holy Night!
    Son of God, love's pure light
    Radiant beams from Thy holy face
    With the dawn of redeeming grace,
    Jesus, Lord, at thy birth,
    Jesus, Lord, at thy birth."

II

ST. CATHERINE READING

The story of St. Catherine is very quaintly told in the old legend.[4] She was the daughter
of "a noble and prudent king," named Costus, "who reigned in Cyprus at the beginning of the
third century," and "had to his wife a queen like to himself in virtuous governance." Though
good people according to their light, they were pagans and worshippers of idols.

[Footnote 4: The life of St. Catherine is related in the Golden Legend. See Caxton's translation
in the Temple Classics, volume vii., page 1. Mrs. Jameson also gives an outline of the story
in Sacred and Legendary Art, p. 459.]

Even in her babyhood the child Catherine was "so fair of visage" that all the people rejoiced
at her beauty. At seven years of age she was sent to school, where "she drank plenteously of
the well of wisdom." Her father was so delighted with her precocity that he had built a tower
containing divers chambers where she might pursue her studies. Seven masters were engaged to
teach her, the best and "wisest in conning" that could be found. So rapid was their pupil's
progress that she soon outstripped them in knowledge, and from being her masters they became
her disciples.

When the princess was fourteen, her father died, leaving her heir to his kingdom. A parliament
was convened, and the young queen was crowned with great solemnity. Then arose a committee
of lords and commons, petitioning her to allow them to seek some noble knight or prince to
marry her and defend the kingdom. Now Catherine had secretly resolved not to marry, but she
answered with a wisdom not learned altogether from books. She agreed to marry if they would
bring her a bridegroom possessing certain qualifications which she knew were impossible to
fulfil. This silenced the counsellors, and she continued to reign alone.

In the course of time Queen Catherine became a Christian and devoted herself to works of religion
and charity. Under her teaching many of her people were converted to the faith. It was a happy
kingdom until the Emperor Maxentius chanced to visit the royal city. He was a tyrant who persecuted
Christians. Upon his arrival he ordered public sacrifices to idols, and all who would not join
in the heathen ceremony were slain. Then Catherine went boldly to meet the emperor and set
forth to him the errors of paganism. Though confounded by her eloquence he was not to be convinced
by the words of a mere woman. Accordingly he summoned from divers provinces fifty masters "which
surmounted all mortal men in worldly wisdom." They were to hold a discussion with the queen
and put her to confusion. For all their arguments, however, Catherine had an answer. So complete
was her victory that the entire company declared themselves Christians. The angry emperor caused
them all to be burned and cast Catherine into prison.

Even here she continued her good works, converting the empress and a prince who came to visit
her. A new torment was then devised for her. Iron wheels were made, bound with sharp razors,
and she was placed between these while they were turned in opposite directions. "And anon as
this blessed virgin was set in this torment, the angel of the Lord brake the wheels by so great
force that it slew four thousand paynims." Maxentius then commanded that she should be beheaded,
and St. Catherine went cheerfully to her death.

Other virgin martyrs may have been as good and as beautiful as St. Catherine, but none were
so wise. We know her in our picture by the book she holds. Eager to acquire all the treasures
of knowledge, she fixes her eyes on the page, absorbed in her occupation. Already she has read
more than half the thick volume, smiling with quiet enjoyment as she reads. There is little
in the face to suggest the scholar or the bookworm. Were this a modern picture, we should fancy
it a young lady reading her favorite poet. As it is, however, we must believe that the book
is some work by Plato or another of the ancient writers whom St. Catherine could quote so readily.
We need not wonder that she does not knit her brow over any difficult passages. What might
be hard for another to grasp is perfectly clear to her understanding.

The beautiful hair coiled over her head is the only coronet the princess wears. There is no
sign of her royalty, and we may infer that the picture represents her in those early days of
girlhood before the cares of government were laid on the young shoulders. As we study the position
of the figure we see that the left arm rests on the rim of a wheel, making a support for the
hand holding the book. The wheel is the emblem most frequently associated with St. Catherine,
as the reminder of the tortures inflicted by Maxentius. The palm branch caught in the fingers
of the left hand is the symbol used alike for all the martyrs. The reference is to that passage
in the book of Revelation which describes the saints standing before the throne "with palms
in their hands."[5]

[Footnote 5: Revelation vii. 9.]

It is pleasant to believe that Correggio took unusual pains with this picture of St. Catherine.
The story of the lovely young princess seems to have appealed to his imagination, and he has
conceived an ideal figure for her character. The exquisite oval of the face, the delicate features,
and the beautiful hair make this one of the most attractive faces in his works.

The light falls over the right shoulder, casting one side of the face in shadow. The modulations
of light on the chin and neck, and the gradation in the shadow cast by the book on the hand,
show Correggio's mastery of chiaroscuro.

III

THE MARRIAGE OF ST. CATHERINE

At the time of her coronation, St. Catherine knew nothing of the Christian faith, but she had
set for herself an ideal of life she was determined to carry out. It was her firm resolve not
to marry. Her counsellors argued that, as she was endowed with certain qualities above all
creatures, she ought to marry and transmit these gifts to posterity. The attributes they enumerated
were, first, that she came of the most noble blood in the world; second, that she was the richest
living heiress; third, that she was the wisest, and, fourth, the most beautiful of all human
beings.

The young queen replied that she would marry only one who possessed corresponding qualities.
"He must be," she said, "so noble that all men shall do him worship," so rich that "he pass
all others in riches," so full of beauty "that angels have joy to behold him;" and finally,
he must be absolutely pure in character, "so meek that he can gladly forgive all offences."
"If ye can find such an one," she declared, "I will be his wife with all mine heart, if he
will vouchsafe to have me."

Of course all agreed that there never was and never would be a man such as she described, and
the matter was at an end. To Catherine, however, there came a strange conviction that her ideal
was not an impossible one. All her mind and heart were filled with the image of the perfect
husband she had conceived. She continually mused how she might find him.

While she thought on these things, an old hermit came to her one day saying that he had had
a vision, and had been sent with the message that her chosen bridegroom awaited her. Catherine
at once arose and followed the hermit into the desert. Here it was revealed to her that the
perfect man she had dreamed of was Jesus, the Christ, and to this heavenly bridegroom she was
united in mystic marriage. Returning to her palace she wore a marriage ring, as the perpetual
token of this spiritual union.

The story explains the subject of our picture. The Christ-child, seated on his mother's knee,
is about to place a ring on St. Catherine's finger, while St. Sebastian looks on as a wedding
guest. The infant bridegroom performs his part with delight. He holds the precious circlet
between the thumb and forefinger of his right hand, and with his left singles out St. Catherine's
ring finger. The bride's hand rests on the mother's open palm, held beneath as a support.

All are watching the child's motions intently; the mother with quiet pleasure, St. Sebastian
with boyish curiosity, and St. Catherine herself with sweet seriousness. Any comparison of
the scene with a human marriage is set aside by the fact that the bridegroom is an infant.
The ceremony is of purely spiritual significance, a true sacrament. St. Catherine's expression
and manner are full of humility, as in a religious service.

The Christ-child is a robust little fellow whose chief beauty is his curls. He has the large
head which usually shows an active temperament, and we fancy that he is somewhat masterful
in his ways. We shall see the same boy again in the picture called The Madonna of St. Jerome.

The mother, too, has a face which soon becomes familiar to the student of Correggio's works.
The eyes are full, the nose is rather prominent, the mouth large and smiling, and the chin
small. Even St. Catherine is of the same type, except that her face is cast in a smaller and
more delicate mould. Her hair is arranged precisely like that of the Madonna, the braids bound
about the head, preserving the pretty round contour. Both women wear dresses cut with round
low necks, showing their full throats. St. Catherine's left hand rests upon a wheel with spiked
rim, which, as we have seen, is her usual emblem. Another emblem is the sword, whose hilt projects
from behind the wheel. This was the instrument of her execution.

Special prominence is given in the picture to three sets of hands. The skill with which they
are painted is noted by critics as one of the many artistic merits of the work. One of Browning's
poems[6] describes an artist's meditations while trying to draw a hand.

Such must have been Correggio's study to enable him to produce the beautiful hands we see here.

[Footnote 6: Beside the Drawing Board.]

St. Sebastian is a figure not to be overlooked. We may find his like among the genii of the
Parma Cathedral, which we are to study. He is a joyous being to whom it is good merely to be
alive. The elfin locks falling about his face make him look like some creature of the woods.
We are reminded most of the faun of the Greek mythology. The arrows in his hand suggest some
sylvan sport, but in reality they are the emblem of his martyrdom. According to tradition the
young saint was bound by his enemies to a tree, and shot with arrows.

Behind the group stretches a bit of open country, and if we look closely we can discern here
two groups of small figures. One represents the martyrdom of St. Sebastian, and the other,
the execution of St. Catherine. We may suppose that such gruesome subjects were not the choice
of the painter. It is probable that they were dictated by his patrons, and in obeying orders
he made the figures as inconspicuous as possible. She was a woman of liberal opinions, who
did not let the duties of her position entirely absorb her. She still retained some social
connections and was a patroness of art and culture. The daughter of a nobleman, she was a person
of consequence, whose private apartments were such as a princess might have. Already a well
known painter of the day had decorated one of her rooms when she heard of the rising artist
Correggio. Probably advised by her relative the Cavaliere Scipione Montino, she commissioned
the young painter to fresco a second room.

The decorative scheme he designed is very beautiful and elaborate. The square ceiling is completely
covered with a simulated trellis, embowered in foliage and flowers, and pierced by oval windows
through which children are seen at play. A circle in the centre contains the family arms of
the abbess, a shield on which three crescent moons are set diagonally. From this centre, as
from the hub of a wheel, a series of gilded ribs radiate towards the sides, cutting the whole
space into triangular sections whose surfaces are slightly hollowed. The oval windows of the
trellis open in these sections, one in each triangle, and sixteen in all. Above every window
hangs a bunch of fruit, seemingly suspended from the centre by ribbons fancifully braided about
the ribs. The outer edge of the design, where the ceiling joins the walls, is finished by a
series of sixteen lunettes or semicircles running around the square, one in each section. The
frieze around the side walls simulates a narrow scarf caught up in festoons between ornamented
capitals formed of rams' heads. The remaining decoration of the room is on the cap of the chimney,
and represents the goddess Diana setting forth for the chase.

This picture furnishes the subject of the children's games in the lattice bower. The little
sprites are attendants of the goddess, playing in a mimic hunt. Two or three may be seen through
every window, busy and happy in their innocent sport. One is the delighted possessor of a quiver
of arrows, from which he draws a shaft. Others play with the hounds, pulling them hither and
thither at their will. A group of five find the hunting-horn an amusing plaything, and good-humoredly
strive together over the treasure.

Our illustration shows a quarter section of the ceiling, from which we can in imagination reconstruct
the whole diagram.[7] Let us see what the children are doing in this corner of the lattice.
At the window directly in front of us a little fellow proudly exhibits a stag's head as a trophy
of the chase. Just behind his shoulder a merry companion, peeps out, and lower down, on the
other side, appears the head of an animal like a doe. In the next window is a boy with a wreath
of flowers with which he and a companion apparently mean to crown the head of the stag. The
third boy of the group has for the moment lost interest in the play, his attention being attracted
by something going on outside. Now comes a boy passing by the next window, who hastens to join
the party we have just seen. His playfellow wants to go the other way, and tries to detain
him. "Come," he says, seizing him by the arm, "there's no fun over there. See what I have found."

[Footnote 7: A quarter section, mathematically exact, is of course, square in shape. In our
illustration the lower part of two lunettes is cut off.]

We are somewhat at a loss to know just what mischief the baby in the next window has been plotting.
He grasps with both hands a tall staff, which may be a hunting-spear, or perhaps a pole with
which he hopes to reach the fruit. In some way he has managed to get both feet through the
window, and is now in a precarious position, half in and half out. His companion tries to draw
him in; but whether he is alarmed at the danger, or is himself eager to get the pole, we cannot
tell.

The lunettes of the ceiling are painted in gray, framed in borders of sea-shells. They are
made to simulate niches containing sculptured figures with some allegorical or mythological
meaning. In our illustration we see first the figure of Chastity, holding in her right hand
the dove, which is the emblem of innocence. The dress is the long, plain tunic seen in Greek
sculpture, and the thin stuff of which it is made flows in graceful lines about the form.

The next figure is similar in character and meaning. It is Virginity, holding in her right
hand the lily, which is the symbol of purity. The other two figures, of which we see only the
upper portion, are Fortune, with a cornucopia, and the helmeted Athena, with spear and torch.

At the death of the abbess Giovanna in 1574, the convent of S. Paolo entered upon a period
of severe ecclesiastical discipline. For more than two centuries it was impossible for outsiders
to gain admittance, and the "Sala del Pergolato" was a sealed treasure. Finally, in 1794, the
Academy of Parma gained permission to examine Correggio's paintings. After the suppression
of the convent the room was thrown open to the public, and the building is now used for a school.

V

DIANA

In classic mythology, Diana, the Greek Artemis, was the goddess of the moon, twin sister of
the sun-god Apollo. As the rays of moonlight seem to pierce the air like arrows, Diana, like
Apollo, was said to carry a quiver of darts; the slender arc of the crescent moon was her bow.
Thence it was natural to consider her fond of hunting, and she became the special patroness
of the chase and other sylvan sports. Her favorite haunts were groves and lakes, and she blessed
the increase of field and meadow. She was mistress of the brute creation, and showed special
favor to the bear, the boar, the dog, the goat, and the hind. As the moonlight cheers the traveller
on his way and enters the chamber of the sick and lonely, so Diana was said to watch with the
sick and help the unfortunate. The pale, white light of the moon is a natural symbol of purity,
hence Diana was a maiden goddess above all allurements of love. Her worship was conducted with
splendid rites in various ancient cities. The temple built in her honor at Ephesus was famous
as one of the seven wonders of the world.

The ancients naturally liked to fancy the goddess very beautiful. The Greek poet Anacreon called
her "the goddess of the sun bright hair." The English Keats, who delighted in the old Greek
myths, has also described the charms of "the haunter chaste of river sides, and woods and heathy
waste."[9] She had "pearl round ears, white neck, orbed brow, blush tinted cheeks," and "a
paradise of lips and eyes."

[Footnote 9: In Endymion. See also Lowell's Endymion for a description of Diana.]

In our picture the moon goddess is mounting her car for the nightly course across the sky.[10]
Though she seems to be but just springing to her place, with bending knee, she is already speeding
on her way.

[Footnote 10: As Apollo drives the sun chariot across the sky by day. Compare Guido Reni's Aurora.]

    "How tremulous-dazzlingly the wheels sweep
    Around their axle."

Her quiver, well filled with the bow and arrows, hangs at her back, held by the strap bound
over her breast.[11] The crescent moon gleams above her brow. The vehicle is the small two-wheeled
chariot used among the Romans, scarcely larger than a chair. Only the hind legs of the steeds
may be seen, but we fancy them to be two white does.

[Footnote 11: It seems odd that with this full quiver the subject should be called by some
"Diana's Return from the Chase."]

The huntress turns her face earthward, lifting a fluttering veil high in her left hand. It
is as if the face of the moon had been hidden behind a cloud which the goddess suddenly draws
aside and shows "her fulgent head uncovered, dazzling the beholder's sight." It is with a bright,
cheerful countenance that she beams upon her worshippers. A sense of courage and exhilaration
is expressed in her spirited bearing. With her right hand she points forward, as if calling
us to join in the sport. In the swiftness of her motion her unbound hair and filmy garments
blow out behind her.

She is a country-bred maiden, with plump neck and round arms, and her chief charm is her buoyant
vitality. Her open face, with eyes set rather far apart, is the index of her nature. Her free
life in the woods has developed a well poised womanhood. Fear is unknown to her; pain and disease
come not near her. Rejoicing in immortal youth and strength, she speeds nightly through the
sky, the messenger of light and comfort.

As we have seen in the preceding chapter, the picture of Diana is painted in fresco on the
chimney cap, or hood, over the great fireplace in the Hall of the Vine Trellis. We may well
believe that the decoration went far towards furnishing the stately apartment. Underneath runs
the Latin inscription, "Ignem gladio ne fodias," stir not the fire with the sword.

It will be remembered that the arms of the abbess, for whom the room was decorated, bore the
device of the crescent moon. This fact may have suggested to Correggio, or his patrons, the
subject of the moon goddess. Diana, as a virgin divinity, was an especially appropriate choice
for the apartment of a nun.

The legends of Greek mythology were at that time very popular among people of culture, having
been recently brought to notice in the revival of classic learning. In Italy they furnished
themes for the painter; in England, for the poet. The English Ben Jonson, living a half a century
later than Correggio,[12] but representing in a certain measure the same love of classic allusion,
wrote a "Hymn to Diana," which might have been inspired by this picture. The first stanza may
be quoted for its interpretation:--

    "Queen and huntress, chaste and fair,
    Now the sun is laid to sleep,
    Seated in thy silver chair,
      State in wonted manner keep.
    Hesperus entreats thy light,
      Goddess excellently bright."

[Footnote 12: That is, from 1573 to 1637.]

VI

ST. JOHN THE EVANGELIST

It seemed understood among the twelve disciples of Jesus that John was the one of their number
especially beloved by the Master. He and his brother, James, were the sons of the fisherman
Zebedee, and all three men earned their living in their fishing-boats on the sea of Galilee.
It was while they were busy with their nets that Jesus one day called the two brothers to be
fishers of men. "And they straightway left their nets and followed him."[13]

[Footnote 13: St. Matthew, chapter iv., verse 20.]

Under the teachings of Jesus, John grew in knowledge of spiritual things. He was one of the
three accompanying their Master to the Mount of Transfiguration, where they witnessed a sacred
scene withheld from the others. His nature was affectionate and poetic, and he was a deep thinker.
Often when the meaning of Jesus' words was beyond his hearers, John treasured the sayings in
his memory. On the evening when Jesus sat at table with his disciples for the last time, John
was near him, leaning on his Master's breast. When, on the next day, Jesus hung upon the cross,
it was John to whom he commended his mother as to a son. "And from that hour that disciple
took her unto his own home."

In the years that followed, John pursued his Christian service with the zeal of an ardent nature.
He remained awhile in Judæa and, in company with Peter, added many converts to the faith. He
then carried the work into Asia Minor, where he founded seven churches. Not only was he a preacher
and organizer, but a voluminous writer as well. The fourth Gospel is believed to be his work,
in which he records many words and deeds of Jesus overlooked by the other Evangelists. He was
also the writer of the three Epistles which bear his name. Finally, he is supposed to be the
author of the book of Revelation, in which he described his visions during his exile in the
isle of Patmos. According to tradition, he lived to a great age, and died at Ephesus in Asia Minor.

The love with which Christians cherish the memory of St. John is seen in the number of churches
bearing his name. One such is that in Parma which was newly built at the time when Correggio
was winning his first laurels. The most important portions of the interior decorations were
executed by our painter.

Before considering the frescoes of the cupola, the visitor to the church likes to pause before
the lunette over the door of the left transept. The subject is St. John, seated with his writing
materials on his lap. There is a pile of books behind him and a volume beside him. At his feet
stands the symbolic eagle pluming his wing.

The emblems of the Evangelists are drawn from Ezekiel's vision of the "four living creatures,"
whose faces were those of a man, a lion, an ox, and an eagle. Applied respectively to the writers
of the four Gospels, each emblem suggests some characteristic trait. The eagle is especially
appropriate to St. John. As the bird soars into the upper regions of the sky and looks directly
at the sun, so St. John's inspiration raised him into the highest realms of thought, where
he seemed to gaze directly upon the divine glory. It is for this that he is called St. John,
"the divine." As the Latin inscription over the lunette reads, "More deeply than the others
he disclosed the mysteries of God."[14]

[Footnote 14: "Altius cœteris Dei patefecit arcana."]

In our picture the Evangelist lifts his eyes heavenward as if beholding a vision. His lips
are parted, and he has the rapt expression of one absorbed in meditation. His right hand still
holds the pen as he pauses for inspiration.

In trying to do honor to the beloved disciple, the painters have always represented him as
the most beautiful of the twelve. As the most Christ-like in character, he is made to resemble
the typical figure of Christ. So in this fresco by Correggio, he is a beautiful youth, with
the curling hair, the oval face and the regular features we associate with the person of Jesus.
Though the beardless face is so refined, there is nothing weak or effeminate about it. The
whole figure is indeed very manly. The head is well set on a full throat and the shoulders
are broad. Rising to his feet St. John would be a tall, athletic young man, capable of lending
a strong hand at his father's fishing-nets. The union of strength and refinement makes the
picture one of the most attractive ideals of St. John ever painted.

The keynote of St. John's Gospel is the love of God; his ardent nature never wearied of the
theme; the wonder in his lifted face shows him still intent upon the mystery. The subject is
drawn from the life of the apostle whose name is given to the church: it is the vision of St.
John on the isle of Patmos. Looking up into the dome, one seems to be looking directly into
the open sky, upon the figure of Christ ascending into heaven. The apostles sit in a circle
on the clouds, and beneath them the aged St. John kneels on the mountain top, gazing upwards
upon the vision. The heavenly spaces are alive with angels, for, as Browning writes:--

      "Correggio loves to mass, in rifts
    Of heaven, his angel faces, orb on orb."

The little creatures are sporting among the clouds and, in the poet's phrase, "waiting to see
some wonder momently grow out."

Where the dome rests upon the four arches which support it, are four triangular corner-pieces
called pendentives, which also belong to Correggio's decorative plan. They are devoted respectively
to the figures of the four Evangelists, each one accompanied by one of the four Fathers of
the Church. The Christian Fathers were the men whose writings and teachings shaped the doctrines
of the faith in the early centuries of our era. They interpreted for the people the meaning
of the Scriptures and the Gospels.

The pendentive of our illustration contains St. John with St. Augustine. The two sit side by
side, engaged in a discussion over the book which they hold together. St. John is young and
beautiful, as the painters always represent him, except in the subject of the vision of Patmos.
The face is perhaps less strong and the expression less exalted than in the lunette we have
studied. There is a boyish eagerness in his manner. The symbolic eagle is beside him, peeping
out from the folds of the drapery. St. Augustine is a handsome old man with finely cut features.
To understand how well the figure fits his character, we must know something of his life.[16]

[Footnote 16: The life of St. Augustine, also called St. Austin, is related in the Golden Legend.
See Caxton's translation in the Temple Classics, vol. 5, page 44. Mrs. Jameson gives a condensed
account of the life in Sacred and Legendary Art, p. 303.]

He was born in Numidia near the middle of the fourth century, and showed in his boyhood brilliant
powers of mind. Without the help of any teacher he read and mastered all the books necessary
to an education in the liberal arts. His mother, Monica, was a devout Christian, and sought
to lead her son to a godly life. For a long time her efforts seemed in vain. Augustine would
make no profession of the Christian faith, but rather indulged in youthful dissipations. His
best quality was his love of study. He became a teacher of rhetoric, and pursued his vocation
in one city and another, always dissatisfied with his life. At length, in his thirtieth year,
he came to Milan, where he fell under the influence of Bishop Ambrose. Then followed a mighty
struggle in his soul, and in the end he yielded himself joyfully as a disciple of Christ. On
the occasion of his baptism was composed the hymn called the "Te Deum" which is still used
in churches.

Henceforth the life of Augustine was filled with Christian labors. After some ten years of
devout living he became the bishop of Hippo (near Carthage) where he resided for thirty-five
years, until his death in 430. All his stores of learning were devoted to the explanation of
Christian theology. He wrote a great number of treatises refuting what he believed to be heresies,
and setting forth what he considered the true doctrines of the faith. An old writer pronounced
him "sweet in speech, wise in letters, and a noble worker in the labours of the church." In
a book of "Confessions" he laid bare all his faults with great humility.

In our picture the good bishop is learning the truths of the faith from St. John, while a child-angel
behind him holds his crosier and mitre. Allowing for the difference of ages, there is a certain
resemblance between the two men, showing that they have in common a refined and sensitive nature,
and an ardent temperament. The older man's face shows lines of thought and character.

St. John seems to be counting off the points of the discussion on his fingers: it may be that
he is unfolding the doctrine of the Trinity. The bishop follows the argument slowly, imitating
St. John's gesture with hesitating hands. What seems so clear to the eager young teacher requires
much deliberation on the part of the learner. The old man knits his brows with an intent expression,
striving to understand the mystery. The two earnest faces turned towards each other make an
interesting contrast.

The angel figures of the pendentive are worthy of notice. Three little creatures are frolicking
on the clouds below the saints' feet, and two are perched on the upper part of the arches.
They are wingless sprites, playful as human children, but with a grace and beauty not of earth.
Two seem to be emerging from a hiding-place in the clouds, and gaily hail their comrade on
the arch above. The lovely sprite on the opposite arch is thinking of other things, and looks
over his shoulder across the church. The tiny fellow in charge of the mitre and crosier peeps
out with a mischievous countenance.

Our reproduction shows a portion of the soffits, or under sides of the arches, decorated with
figures from Old Testament history, painted in monochrome.

VIII

ST. MATTHEW AND ST. JEROME

The apostle Matthew was employed as a tax-gatherer in Jerusalem when he became a disciple of
Jesus. He was sitting one day at the receipt of customs, when Jesus passed by and said unto
him, "Follow me." "And he left all, rose up and followed him."[17] Soon after, the new disciple
made a great feast for the Master, scandalizing the scribes and Pharisees by inviting guests
of doubtful reputation. Matthew, however, had rightly judged the spirit of Jesus, who had come
"not to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance." Throughout the ministry of Jesus, Matthew
remained a faithful disciple, but without distinguishing himself in any way. Evidently he had
a thoughtful mind and a good memory. In his Gospel he reported very fully the Sermon on the
Mount and many of the parables.

[Footnote 17: St. Luke, chapter v., verse 28.]

One of the pendentives of the cupola in the church of S. Giovanni Evangelista is devoted to
St. Matthew in company with St. Jerome. The Evangelist turns from the open Gospel before him
to speak to St. Jerome, who is occupied with his writing. A winged cherub, sitting on a cloud
in front of him, supports his book with both outstretched arms. The cherub is St. Matthew's
emblem, as the eagle is that of St. John. It is by this charming figure that the old masters
represented the face of "a man," that is, the human face, in the "living creature" of Ezekiel's
vision.[18] The symbol is appropriately applied to the first Evangelist because his Gospel
emphasizes the humanity of Jesus.

[Footnote 18: See also pages 34, 35.]

The token of St. Jerome's identity is the cardinal's hat, held by an angel on the arch beside
him. The two volumes on his lap, in addition to the scroll upon which he is engaged, show how
busy has been the pen of this learned Father. Mrs. Jameson gives a condensed account of the
same in Sacred and Legendary Art, page 280.]

He came of a rich family, and received at Rome the best education afforded by his times. Like
his contemporary, St. Augustine, he devoted all his scholarship to the service of the Christian
faith. While St. Augustine's tastes were more philosophical, St. Jerome's were perhaps more
for pure learning and the study of the classics. He made himself master of Hebrew and Greek,
and his most valuable work was his translations. He rendered into Latin, which was the literary
language of his day, the various books of the Old and New Testament, and this version became
the authorized Bible or Vulgate.

St. Jerome was a Dalmatian by birth, but in the course of his life he journeyed to many countries.
Soon after his baptism, he visited Syria, to retrace the scenes of the life of Christ. He then
retired to a desert, where he passed four years in penance and fasting, living in the companionship
of wild beasts. Clothed in sackcloth, he spent his days in torture, struggling with temptation,
and haunted by visions of demons.

At a later period of his life he was in Rome, where he gained an immense influence over fashionable
women. Two of his converts here were Paula and Marcella, whose names are historical. Finally
he returned to Palestine, and passed the remainder of his days in a monastery which he had
founded in Bethlehem. He was a man of vehement nature, a violent partisan, and an untiring student.

Something of his character may be seen in the face of the old man of our picture, bending over
his writing. He seems so absorbed in his task that he is entirely unconscious of his surroundings.
The deep-set eyes, overhung by shaggy brows, are fixed intently on his scroll. From his association
with St. Matthew, we may fancy that he is translating the first Gospel. The Evangelist, with
his own volume before him, is supervising the work. He turns to the translator with an encouraging
smile, and seems to dictate the words. St. Matthew's face is gentle and amiable, though not
so strong as we are wont to imagine it. He is here represented in middle life, at about the
age when called to discipleship.

As in the pendentive of St. John and St. Augustine, the angel figures add an element of beauty
to the picture. Each one seems attracted by some distant object. The cherub holding St. Matthew's
book looks towards the worshippers in the church. Some one in the congregation also seems to
attract the attention of the angel with the cardinal's hat, and he smiles shyly, as if in reply
to a gesture of admiration. His companion on the other arch turns his eyes towards the figures
in the dome, where the apostles are enthroned on clouds. The playful little fellow on the clouds
below St. Matthew's feet looks across at the sprites of the opposite pendentive.

All this charming by-play gives the impression of a company of living spirits frolicking among
the arches of the church. "Have Correggio's putti[20] grown up yet and walked out of their
frames?" the painter, Guido Reni, used to ask, referring with quaint humor to the wonderful
lifelikeness of such child figures. So, looking at these angels, we half expect to see them
wave a hand to us over the arches, and, turning with a sudden motion, disappear from our sight
among the clouds.

[Footnote 20: Italian for "boys."]

IX

THE REST ON THE RETURN FROM EGYPT

(The Madonna della Scodella)

Before the child Jesus was two years old, he was taken on a journey which at that time was
long and tedious.

The news of Jesus' birth had been first brought to King Herod by the wise men of the East,
who came in search of the new-born king whose star they had seen. The idea of a strange ruler
to usurp the throne alarmed Herod, and he determined to be rid of any possible rival. Accordingly
orders were given to slay all children in and near Bethlehem "from two years old and under."

While this terrible slaughter was going on, the Holy Family were making their way to the strange
land of refuge. Here they lived, awaiting heavenly guidance for their return. We may suppose
both journeys to have been made by donkeys, the common beasts of burden in Eastern countries.
The young mother and child must certainly have had to ride. As for Joseph, he was a sturdy
man, and may well have walked; in those days travelling was a matter of time. Unused to luxuries,
these simple folk trusted in Providence to supply their few needs by the way.

Our picture illustrates an imaginary incident on the return journey from Egypt to Israel. It
is the hour of the noonday rest, and the little company have come to a halt in the woods. An
old legend relates how at such times the trees would bend to offer them fruit, and springs
would gush forth out of the dry ground for their refreshment. Mary has seated herself on a
bank by the stream, while Joseph plucks the fruit from the date palm near by.

The boy Jesus has been standing between the two, watching Joseph, from whose outstretched hand
he now takes the fruit. At the same time he is thirsty, and leaning back towards his mother,
he turns and throws an arm over her shoulder, asking for a drink of water. She has a round
basin (or scodella) which the family use as a drinking-cup, and the child points to it with
a coaxing smile, resting his hand on her wrist.

Mary turns with fond pride towards the dear little face so near her own. Her face is the same
which we have already seen bending in a mother's first ecstasy over her babe. Here it has a
maturer and more matronly look, but with no less sweetness. Joseph, from his higher level,
looks down kindly upon the two. His generous nature seems to take delight in anything that
gives them pleasure. He is large and heavily built, a stalwart protector should perils beset
them. In spite of the thick draperies so clumsily wound about him, he is a dignified figure.
He holds here a place of prominence seldom given him by other painters.

The child upon whom so much love is lavished is a tall, lithe boy with a well shaped head.
His hair is parted, and falls in loose curls on each side of a forehead which marks him a child
of genius. The face is delicate and sensitive, with a shy expression in the eyes.

The family are not alone, for, all unseen by them, a company of ministering angels wait upon
them. A tall one in the rear takes care of the donkey. Another little creature peeps from the
thicket beside Mary. Four more circle overhead among the branches of the trees, borne upon
little clouds which they have brought with them from the upper regions. Their wind-blown hair
and fluttering garments show how swift is their motion. One of them tugs mightily at the palm,
throwing himself backward in the effort to bend it towards Joseph. Two others sport together
with interlocked arms, and higher still, a pair of eyes gleam through the leaves. The whole
jocund company seem to fill the place with mirth. They fulfil the promise of the ancient psalmist,
"He shall give his angels charge over thee, to keep thee in all thy ways."

Certain characteristics of Correggio's art are well illustrated in the picture. His delight
in the foot is here almost equal to that he shows for the hand in "The Marriage of St. Catherine."
The three wayfarers travel with bare feet, and the ministering angels flaunt their feet gaily
in the air. Drawn in many positions, it is interesting to see how decorative this feature of
the picture is.

The figures are cleverly grouped, that they may completely fill the tall, narrow panel. The
composition is built on a diagonal plan. From the left hand of Joseph, grasping the palm branch,
to the right hand of Mary, with the basin of water, runs the strong main line which gives character
to the drawing. The child links the two larger figures together, by stretching out a hand to
each. The group of cloud-borne angels above also follows a diagonal direction parallel to the
larger group. We shall presently see that the painter used the same method of composition in
another picture.

The opening beyond the copse, where the donkey is tied, makes the spot seem less gloomy and
isolated. It is an important principle of art to represent no enclosed place without a glimpse
of light in the background.

X

ECCE HOMO

The old Hebrew prophet who wrote of the coming Messiah predicted that he should be "despised
and rejected of men, a man of sorrows, and acquainted with grief." How fully the prophecy was
realized, we may read in the narrative of the trial and crucifixion of Jesus.

The enemies of Jesus had to deal with their prisoner according to the formality of the Roman
law. "Then delivered he him therefore unto them to be crucified."[24]

[Footnote 23: St. John, chapter xix., verses 1-6.]

[Footnote 24: Ib., verse 16.]

The Latin form of Pilate's words, "Behold the man," has given the title "Ecce Homo" to our
picture. It is the moment when Jesus comes forth from the rude mockery of the soldiers, clad
in a royal robe, and wearing the crown of thorns. The governor has bidden one of the soldiers
lead the prisoner out on a balcony of the palace. An eager throng of people are waiting outside,
but they are not all enemies. Among them are a few faithful women, and they are allowed to
press close to the balcony. At the sight of her son, treated as a criminal with bound hands,
the mother, Mary, falls swooning over the balustrade, supported by a younger woman.

Pilate standing in the doorway behind appeals to the crowd: "I find no fault in him. Behold
the man." He has been deeply impressed by his interview with Jesus, and is willing to do something
in his behalf. His face is good-natured, we see, but with no strength of character in it. He
is a handsome man with curling beard carefully trimmed, apparently not a hard man to deal with,
but easy-going and selfish.

Jesus stands with drooping head and an expression of suffering resignation. In the menacing
faces before him he sees the hatred which will be satisfied with nothing less than his death.
Already he hears the cruel cry, "Crucify him, crucify him." His badge of kingship is the crown
of suffering. Were his kingdom of this world, his servants would deliver him from his enemies.
As the ruler of a heavenly kingdom, he was born "to bear witness unto the truth."

The rich mantle, which the soldiers have mockingly thrown over his shoulders, falls away and
shows the body as it had been bared for the scourging. It is a beautiful form, perfectly developed,
and the arms and hands are as delicately modelled as a woman's. The face is oval, with regular
features of classic mould, a short parted beard, and long hair falling in disordered curls
about it. This is the typical face of Christ, as it has been handed down from generation to
generation since early in the Christian era. The rude pictures in the catacombs are on the
same model. So faithfully has the type been followed through the centuries, some believe that
the original must have been an authentic likeness.[25]

[Footnote 25: See Rex Regum, by Sir Wyke Bayliss.]

The mother Mary is still young and beautiful. As the great Michelangelo said, "Purity enjoys
eternal youth."[26] A heavy veil or mantle is draped over her head, framing the pure profile
of her face. This form of drapery is common among the old masters in painting Mary as Mater
Dolorosa, or the Sorrowing Mother.

[Footnote 26: See the volume on Michelangelo in the Riverside Art Series, page 35.]

Artistically considered, this figure of the fainting mother is the finest thing in the picture.
Her companion, probably Mary Magdalene, is also a lovely creature, though we see only a part
of her face.

The subject is in tragic contrast to the illustrations we have just been studying. It seems
strange to connect this Man of Sorrows with the happy boy we saw by the woodland spring, or
this grief-stricken woman with that proud young mother. Correggio himself, we know, shrank
from such sad themes.

Like the picture of The Marriage of St. Catherine, our illustration shows how skilfully Correggio
painted hands. The drooping fingers of the Saviour taper delicately, with long almond-shaped
nails. Pilate's hand has slender, flexible fingers like those of some dainty woman, and might
be mated with that of Mary Magdalene. It is apparent that the study of hands and feet interested
our painter more than that of faces. We shall lose much in his pictures if we do not give special
attention to these features. In the case before us, the face of Christ must be less attractive,
on account of the sorrowful expression. To make up, as it were, for this, the hands are brought
into prominent notice, and are very beautiful.

XI

APOSTLES AND GENII

The glory of Parma is the Cathedral, which represents the labors of many centuries. The building
itself was begun in 1058, and completed in the thirteenth century. The interior was beautified
by a succession of artists, one of whom was our painter Correggio. His work here was the decoration
of the cupola, and he began it immediately upon finishing the frescoes in the church of S.
Giovanni Evangelista.

The Cathedral dome is octagonal in shape. In the roof, or topmost space, the Virgin Mary seems
borne on circling throngs of saints and angels to meet the Saviour in the upper air. Below
the dome runs a cornice, or frieze, in eight sections, filled with figures of apostles gazing
upon the vision. Still lower are four decorated pendentives, similar to those in the church
of S. Giovanni Evangelista. These contain respectively the four patron saints of Parma.

To the spectator looking up from below, the effect is of "a moving vision, rapturous and ecstatic."
A multitude of radiant figures sweep and whirl through the heavenly spaces. "They are upon
every side, bending, tossing, floating, and diving through the clouds, hovering above the abysmal
void that is between the dome and the earth below it."[27] Wonderful indeed is the triumph
of the painter's art in this place. "Reverse the cupola and fill it with gold, and even that
will not represent its worth," said Titian.

[Footnote 27: E. H. Blashfield in Italian Cities.]

Our illustration shows a portion of the octagonal cornice. The design is a simulated balcony
ornamented with tall candelabra. In front stand the apostles grouped in twos at the corners.
On the top of the balustrade, in the spaces between the candelabra, sport a band of genii,
or heavenly spirits.

The four apostles are men of giant frames with broad shoulders and stalwart limbs. They are
of middle age, heavily bearded, and all look much alike. It would be impossible to call one
Peter, and another Paul, or to identify any particular persons. Evidently it was not the intention
of the artist to distinguish individuals. All the figures are turned with lifted faces towards
the vision in the dome. Each expresses, by a gesture, the wonder, joy, rapture, or admiration
aroused by the spectacle. Their attitudes are somewhat extravagant and self-conscious. The
drapery, too, is rather fantastic, flung about their figures, leaving arms and legs bare. Were
the picture taken out of its surroundings it would scarcely suggest a Christian subject. These
colossal beings are like Titans moving through the figures of a sacred dance, and murmuring
the mystic incantations of some heathen rite.

But we must not press our interpretation too far. The panel should be studied for its decorative
quality as a part of a larger scheme. Viewed from below, this procession of figures must be
exceedingly effective. The emphasis of lines is diagonal, flowing in the direction of the focal
point of the whole decoration.

The genii of the balustrade are beings of Correggio's own creation. His imagination called
forth a world of spirits without a counterpart in the work of any other painter. Lacking the
wings usually given in art to angels, they also lack the proper air of sanctity for heavenly
habitants. Yet they are far too ethereal for mortals. Neither angel nor human, they are rather
sprites of elf-land. With their tossing hair and agile motions they remind us of woodland creatures,
and they look shyly out of their eyes like the furtive folk of the forest.

They are sportive, but not mischievous, in the human sense. They frolic in the pure delight
of motion. By mortal standards of age they are between childhood and youth, when limbs are
long and bodies supple. Their only draperies are narrow scarfs which they twist about them
in every conceivable way.

Of the seven figures seen in our illustration, two only have any ostensible purpose to serve.
One seems to be lighting a candelabrum with a flambeau; another carries a bowl which may be
used for incense. The others are idlers. If they have any duties as acolytes, these are for
the moment forgotten. Several are attracted by the ceremonies in the cathedral and look down
from their high perch upon the worshipping congregation.

The sprite at the extreme right is seated, and peeps over his shoulder with a rather dreamy
expression. Next come two who are playing together, one throwing up his left arm as if to balance
himself. Beyond the candelabrum is one whose parted hair and coquettish pose of the head give
a feminine look to the figure. The sprite in the centre of the balustrade is the most winsome
of the company. His bright eyes have spied out some one in the congregation, and stooping,
he points directly at the person. His expression is very roguish. The little fellow with the
flambeau is at the left, and last is one whose face is turned away towards the imaginary space
behind the balcony.

Our illustration gives us a general idea of Correggio's decorative method. The human body was
his material; his patterns were woven of nude figures, posed in every possible attitude. Every
figure is in motion, and the whole multitude palpitates with the joy of living.

XII

ST. JOHN THE BAPTIST

In one of the pendentives of the cupola in the Parma Cathedral is the figure of St. John the
Baptist reproduced in our illustration. The background is made to resemble somewhat the interior
of a shell. On billows of clouds sits the prophet, with a lamb in his arms, and a circle of
angels playing about him.

St. John the Baptist was a cousin of Jesus, and the first to recognize the true character of
the carpenter's son. While Jesus was still living in obscurity in Nazareth, John went forth
to preach in the wilderness about the river Jordan. His manner of life was very singular. The
burden of all his sermons was, "Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand." When the people
asked him what they ought to do, his answers were full of common sense. "He that hath two coats,
let him impart to him that hath none; and he that hath meat, let him do likewise." To the tax-collectors,
he said, "Exact no more than that which is appointed you;" to the soldiers, "Do violence to
no man, neither accuse any falsely."[29]

[Footnote 29: St. Luke, chapter iii.]

The authorities sent from Jerusalem to question the claims of the strange preacher; but his
reply was in the words of the old Hebrew prophet, "I am the voice of one crying in the wilderness."[30]

[Footnote 30: St. John, chapter i., verse 23.]

It was the custom of John to baptize his converts in the river Jordan. One day Jesus presented
himself for baptism, and John saw in him one whose shoe's latchet he was not worthy to unloose.
At once he proclaimed him to the people as the "Lamb of God who taketh away the sins of the
world."[31]

[Footnote 31: Ib., verse 29.]

With the entrance of Jesus upon his ministry, John's work was fulfilled. "He must increase,
but I must decrease," said the prophet humbly.[32] He was soon after cast into prison by King
Herod, whose vices he had openly rebuked. Thence he was taken out only to be executed.

[Footnote 32: St. John, chapter iii., verse 30.]

It must be confessed that Correggio cared very little about making a true character study of
St. John. There is not much in the figure of our pendentive to suggest the stern and fearless
prophet of the wilderness. The humility of the countenance is perhaps the feature most appropriate
to the character. The shy, haunting expression in the eyes is, too, such as belongs to one
who, like St. John, lived much alone in the woods. The tunic is short and sleeveless, showing
the strong limbs of the hermit.

For the rest, the Baptist's face has the same gentle amiability we have already seen in St.
Matthew and Joseph. The type is a common one with Correggio. A certain resemblance runs through
nearly all his male figures, whether of smooth-faced youth, bearded manhood, or hoary old age.

The tenderness of St. John for his little lamb is the chief motive of the picture. He carries
it on his left arm, supporting the weight on his knee, and the innocent creature puts its nose
close to the prophet's face. The lamb is the accepted symbol of St. John the Baptist, in allusion
to the words with which he addressed Jesus at the Jordan, "Behold the lamb of God." The same
figure is used in the book of Revelation, where the Lamb is described "in the midst of the
throne." Standing for the person of Christ himself, St. John holds the sacred emblem with reverence.
To understand why his face is lifted in this direction we must remember that his glance is
directed toward the vision in the dome just above.

The angel figures of this pendentive are among the most beautiful and characteristic of the
myriad throng of the cupola. The impression made by this great spirit company upon one standing
beneath the dome has been described in some lines by Aubrey de Vere:--

    "Creatures all eyes and brows and tresses streaming,
    By speed divine blown back; within all fire
    Of wondering zeal, and storm of bright desire.
    Round the broad dome the immortal throngs are beaming,
    With elemental powers the vault is teeming;
    We gaze, and gazing join the fervid choir,
    In spirit launched on wings that ne'er can tire."

While the spirits in the upper part of the cupola are massed so closely together that we do
not see the full beauty of each one, these in our picture may be studied separately. There
are six in all, and their purpose is to call the attention of the worshippers to the prophet.
The two in the rear, whose bodies are hidden in the clouds, gaze upon him adoringly. One on
each side points with outstretched finger to the lamb, as if repeating the Baptist's words,
"Behold the lamb of God." The angel astride the cloud in front was interrupted in the same
task by a little fellow suddenly shooting out from the clouds beneath him. He peers into the
opening at one side, but still lifts his left hand towards the prophet above him.

The six figures are arranged in a semicircle, and their slender limbs and lithe bodies trace
rhythmic lines of grace. The most charming of the company is perhaps he at the right, whose
eyes meet ours with a bewitching smile. Early in the morning, while it was yet dark, a young
woman made her way to the rock-hewn tomb in the garden of Joseph of Arimathea. It was Mary
Magdalene, whom Jesus had rescued from a life of sin. Much had been forgiven her, therefore
she loved much. In her sorrow she came to visit the spot where the body of her crucified Master
had been laid.

Great was her surprise to find that the stone placed at the entrance of the tomb had been rolled
away. In her perplexity, she ran to tell the disciples Peter and John. They all hurried back
together to the garden, and the two men, entering the tomb, found it empty. Unable to explain
the mystery, they presently returned home, leaving Mary still standing without the sepulchre
weeping. Jesus has greeted Mary by name, and she has instantly recognized the Master. Sinking
on her knees, she would have impulsively stretched out her hands to him, but he repels her
with a gesture. Awe-struck, she gazes into his face, while he explains the message she is to
carry to the disciples.

The risen Lord is clad in but one garment, a heavy mantle, knotted at the waist. The upper
part is slipping from his shoulders, leaving the torso bare. The beauty of the form reminds
us of a Greek statue. On the ground beside him are some garden tools, a hoe and a spade, and
beyond these lies a straw hat. These things explain why Mary, blinded and confused with weeping,
supposed that it was the gardener who spoke to her.

The Master's attitude and gesture emphasize the meaning of his words. The body sways slightly
to one side, as if shrinking from Mary's touch. He still holds his right hand outstretched,
as when he said "Touch me not." And now he raises his left arm, and pointing heavenward declares
that he is about to ascend to his Father. He seems to speak gently as to a child, and looks
down into Mary's face with a smile.

The young woman is richly arrayed in a brocade dress, cut so as to show her beautiful neck
and arms. A mass of wavy golden hair falls over her shoulders and upon her bosom. Her tapering
wrists and delicate hands indicate gentle blood, but her features are somewhat heavy, and the
face would not attract us by its beauty. The rapt expression of devotion is what makes it interesting.
The whole attitude expresses complete self-forgetfulness.

The lithe and youthful figure of Christ recalls the boy we saw in a former picture journeying
from Egypt. We can see that this is the man into whom that child is grown. We note again the
high full forehead over which the parted hair is brushed in curves. Again, too, we see the
small mouth with the gentle smile. The figure in general features resembles the Christ type
which is illustrated in the picture of Ecce Homo.

In painting the figure of the risen Christ, the old masters were accustomed to give prominence
to the nail prints in hands and feet, and the wound in his side. Correggio has not done this.
Such signs of suffering were inconsistent with the joyous nature of his art. The subject of
the picture is entirely a happy one, and he has kept out of it all evidences of the crucifixion,
emphasizing rather the idea of the ascension.

In some artistic points our picture resembles the Madonna della Scodella. The pose of Christ
is similar to that of Joseph, with one arm lifted up, and the other reaching down. Thus is
formed the diagonal line which is at the basis of the composition. The right arm of Mary carries
the line on to the lower corner of the picture.

The landscape setting makes a spacious background, and a large tree behind Christ throws his
figure into relief.

XIV

THE MADONNA OF ST. JEROME

(Il Giorno)

It is a bright clear day, and a baby boy is having a rare frolic out of doors, on his mother's
knee. It is the little Christ-child, and his visitors are St. Jerome and Mary Magdalene. Overhead
a red cloth drapery has been stretched from tree to tree, making a sort of canopy to protect
the company from the direct rays of the sun. St. Jerome has brought as an offering the books
which represent the scholarly toil of many years. Mary Magdalene has her jar of ointment for
the anointing of the Saviour's feet.

The mother sits on a slight elevation in the centre, her bare foot resting on the ground. St.
Jerome stands in front, a little at one side, where he can hold a book directly before the
child's face. Mary Magdalene, half kneeling on the other side, stoops to caress a little foot.
The sturdy old father seems to have come directly from his monastery in Bethlehem, and his
lion follows him like a faithful dog. The old legend relates that as he sat one evening at
his monastery gate, a lion approached, holding up a paw which was pierced with a thorn. The
good father removed the thorn and dressed the wound, and the grateful beast became thenceforth
the constant companion of his benefactor.

The scroll in St. Jerome's right hand may be any one of his many treatises or translations.
The large open volume is undoubtedly his Latin version of the Bible. One side of the book is
supported on his left hand, while the other is held by an attendant angel, who turns the pages
for the Christ-child. There is something very interesting on the page now open, and the angel
points a slender finger to a particular passage. The child is wrought up to the highest pitch
of excitement. He stretches out his legs and arms, his whole body stiffening in a tremor of
joy. He fairly pants with eagerness for the treasure just beyond his grasp. Though not a pretty
boy, he is so full of life that we find him very captivating.

Old St. Jerome looks immensely pleased with the child's delight. The angel playfellow is delighted
with his success in amusing the baby, and laughs sympathetically with him. The mother smiles
with gentle indulgence, and holds him firmly lest he spring from her arms. Mary Magdalene appears
almost unconscious of what is going on. Her whole being is absorbed in loving devotion. She
has caught one little foot lightly by the heel, and, drawing it towards her, lays her cheek
against the soft knee. Her hair is unbound, and falls in long tresses over her neck. In throwing
out his arms, the child's left hand has fallen on the golden head, and here it rests as if
he returned the caress. In the mean time a mischievous urchin, who may be the boy Baptist,
holds the Magdalene's jar of ointment. He stands behind her like a small lackey, and sniffs
curiously at the contents of the pot.

If it seems strange that St. Jerome and Mary Magdalene should be here together, we must remember
that the painters of Correggio's time did not try to represent sacred scenes with historical
accuracy. It was customary to bring together in a picture persons who lived in altogether different
periods and countries. The meaning of such pictures was symbolic. The Christians of all ages
constitute a communion of the saints who meet at the Christ-child's feet.

The two saints here make a fine artistic contrast,--the rugged and grizzled old man, and the
lovely golden-haired maiden. The splendid muscular strength of the one is offset against the
radiant beauty of the other. In a devotional sense also the contrast is most appropriate. St.
Jerome has served the Christ with great powers of intellect; Mary Magdalene brings only a woman's
loving heart. The one has written great books; the other could do nothing but anoint the Saviour's
feet. Yet the two kinds of service are equally important. The edge of the canopy overhead emphasizes
this line by following the same general direction. The child's figure behind the Magdalene
balances the figure of the lion in the left corner.

[Footnote 35: See chapters IX. and XIII.]

The landscape which lies beyond the canopy is an important and beautiful part of the picture.
Without this spacious distance in the background the large figures filling the foreground would
crowd the composition unpleasantly. It is a relief to the eye to traverse this stretch of sunny
country.

The picture makes it possible for us to understand why Correggio has been called a painter
of "light and space and motion." All three characteristics are admirably illustrated here.
In color, too, the original painting is very fine. The Virgin wears the usual red robe and
blue mantle, the colors denoting love and constancy. St. Jerome has a blue drapery about the
hips and a crimson mantle, while the angel's tunic and Mary Magdalene's mantle are yellow.

It is the clear golden atmosphere flooding the scene which gives it the Italian name of "Il
Giorno," The Day.

XV

CUPID SHARPENING HIS ARROWS

(Detail of Danaë)

In the imagination of the ancient Greeks all human love was inspired by the goddess Aphrodite,
Venus, aided by her son, the little archer Cupid. It was Cupid's office to shoot the arrows
of affection. Being a mischievous fellow, he took delight in aiming his shafts at the unsuspecting.
Often his victims were so oddly chosen that it seemed as if the marksman had shot at random.
Some believed that he did his work blindfolded.

The poets describe Cupid as a beautiful winged boy carrying a bow and a quiver of arrows, and
sometimes a torch. He flew at will through the wide universe, but he loved best the island
of Cyprus, which was his mother's first home. "His head has goodly curls," wrote Moschus,[36]
"but impudent is the face he wears; his little hands are tiny, 'tis true, yet they shoot far....
Small is his arrow, yet it carries even to the sky.... He is naked indeed, so far as his body
is concerned, but his mind is shrouded. And being winged as a bird he flies upon now one party
of men and women and now another, and settles on their inmost hearts."

[Footnote 36: In the first idyl, translated by J. Bank.]

The mingled pain and delight caused by a wound of love is explained by the fact that Cupid's
arrows were tipped with gall and honey. The way in which they were fashioned is variously described
by the poets. Anacreon has it that they were made at the forge of Vulcan, the husband of Venus,
and the blacksmith of the gods. One of this poet's odes relates how--

    "In the Lemnian caves of fire
    The mate of her who nursed Desire
    Moulded the glowing steel to form
    Arrows for Cupid thrilling warm;
    While Venus every barb imbues
    With droppings of her honeyed dews;
    And Love (alas the victim heart)
    Tinges with gall the burning dart."[37]

[Footnote 37: In Moore's translation.]

A slightly different explanation is given by the Latin poet Claudian:--

    "In Cyprus' isle two rippling fountains fall
    And one with honey flows, and one with gall;
    In these, if we may take the tale from fame,
    The son of Venus dips his darts of flame."

However the story may run, there is but one ending. The victim of the love-god's arrow confesses
that "loving is a painful thrill," but "not to love, more painful still."

So bold was the little archer that the mightiest could not withstand his arts. The war-god
Mars, bringing his spear one day to Vulcan's forge, smiled contemptuously at the light shafts
of Cupid. "Try it," said little Love, handing him one. Whereupon the foolish fellow cried out
in an agony of pain, and begged Cupid to take the arrow back. Apollo, the archer of the sun,
was equally imprudent, and was richly punished for his sneers. An arrow from the fatal quiver
made him mad with unrequited love for the nymph Daphne. A being who could give so much pain
and pleasure was at once to be loved and feared. Hence all paid homage--

    "To Love, for heaven and earth adore him
    And gods and mortals bow before him."

In our picture, Cupid looks just as the poets have described him, a beautiful baby boy with
wings and "goodly curls." Only the milk and honey of Cyprus could have made the little body
so plump. A deep crease marks the line of his wrist, a soft fold of flesh the neck. The full
quiver lies on the table beside him, and he is sharpening one of the darts.[38] A little companion
helps him hold the whetstone steady while he presses the arrow tip upon its surface. Some lines
of Horace come to mind describing--

    "Cupid sharpening all his fiery darts
    Upon a whetstone stained with blood of hearts."

[Footnote 38: Vasari says that Cupid is trying the arrow on a stone.]

Cupid's companion is as like him as a twin, save that he has no wings. He may be a human playfellow
of the little god, or one of the brood of loves with which the poets have peopled Cyprus. While
the original myth told of only one Cupid, imagination has multiplied his kind. We read of the
"playful rout of Cupids" attendant upon the love-god, who rules as sovereign among them.

The two children of the picture are intent upon their task. The very seriousness of their manner
argues some mischief in view. Evidently they are preparing for a great conquest. The arrow
must not fail of its work, but must be sharp enough to carry the sweet poison straight to the
victim's heart.

Both of the chubby fellows have rather large heads with clustering ringlets. The wingless boy
has the high, full forehead which marks an active mind. Cupid seems to have the more energetic
temperament of the two, while his comrade is a bit of a dreamer.

Our picture is a charming illustration of Correggio's love of children. As it was not the fashion
of his time to paint children's portraits, he had to make his own opportunities for the favorite
subject. How ingenious he was we have had occasion to see in our study. When given a sacred
subject to paint he filled all the available spaces with child angels sporting in the clouds.
With the ceiling of a room to decorate, he covered the whole surface with a band of little
boys at play.

Our reproduction is a detail of a larger picture illustrating the myth of Danaë. The two little
figures are in the lower right corner of the canvas.

XVI

A SUPPOSED PORTRAIT OF CORREGGIO

Almost every celebrated painter has at some time in his life sat for his portrait. Many have
painted their own likenesses, not so much from motives of vanity, but as a matter of artistic
interest. Others have posed as models to their fellow painters.

Correggio was an exception in this regard. The old biographer Vasari made many efforts to procure
a portrait, and concluded that "he never took it himself, nor ever had it taken by others,
seeing that he lived much in retirement."

Our painter, as we have seen, was not a student of the face. Form and expression did not greatly
interest him. He busied himself chiefly with problems of light and shade. This is perhaps the
reason why he never thought it worth while to paint his portrait. He was not a traveller, and
probably never visited any of the great art centres of his time. So he made no friends among
the contemporary painters who would have been likely to make his portrait. In any case his
busy life left little time for any work for himself, and if he thought at all of a portrait,
he doubtless postponed it to some more convenient season. Waiting for such a time, his career
was brought suddenly to an end. He died of fever in Correggio at the age of forty.

In the passing centuries one picture after another has been put forward as a pretended portrait
of Correggio. The painter's admirers were always eager to believe that a real likeness had
at last been discovered. Though we cannot rely upon the genuineness of any of these, some are
very interesting.

Such an one is our frontispiece, from a painting in the Parma Gallery, pointed out as Correggio's
portrait. Whoever the original may have been, the expression is certainly animated and intelligent.
There is much humor and kindliness in the face. The unknown artist should have the credit for
the gift of revealing the individual character of his sitter.

Lacking an authentic portrait of the man Correggio, we have to content ourselves with the short
account of his character given by Vasari. "He was a person," writes the biographer, "who held
himself in but slight esteem, nor could he ever persuade himself that he knew anything satisfactorily
respecting his art; perceiving its difficulties, he could not give himself credit for approaching
the perfection to which he would so fain have seen it carried; he was a man who contented himself
with very little, and always lived in the manner of a good Christian."

A dot (.) below the vowel u denotes the sound of u in the French language.

N indicates that the preceding vowel has the French nasal tone.

G and K denote the guttural sound of ch in the German language.

th denotes the sound of th in the, this.

ç sounds like s.

c̵ sounds like k.

ṣ̱ sounds like z.

ḡ is hard as in ḡet.

ġ is soft as in ġem.

Allegri (äl-lā'grē).

Altius cæteris Dei patefecit arcana (äl'tḗ-ŏŏs kī'tā̇̇-rḗs dā'ē
    pä-tā-fā'-kĭt är-kä'nä).

Ambrose (ăm'brōz).

Anacreon (ăn-ăk'rḗ-ŏn).

Antonio (än-tō'nē-ō).

Apollo (ȧ-pŏl´lō).

Aphrodite (ăf-rṓ-dī'tē).

Artemis (är'tē-mĭs).

Arimathea (Ăr-ĭ-mȧ-thē´ȧ).

Athena (ă-thē'nȧ).

Augustine (a̤'gŭs-tēn).

Aurora (a̤-rō'rȧ).

Austin (a̤s'tĭn).

Bayliss, Wyke (wĭk bā'lĭs).

Bethlehem (Bĕth'lēhĕm).

Berenson (bā'rĕn-sŏn).

Blashfield (blăsh'fēld).

Burckhardt (bōōrk'härt).

Cæsar (sē'zȧr).

candelabrum (kăn-dḗ-lā'brŭm).

Carthage (kär'thāj).

Catherine (kăth'ĕr-ĭn).

Caxton (kăks'tŭn).

Cavaliere (kä-vä-lē-ā'rā̇̇).

chiaroscuro (kyä-rṓ-skōō'rṓ).

Cicerone (chē-chā-rō'nā̇̇).

Claudian (cla̤'dĭ-ā̇̇n).

Correggio (kŏr-rĕd'jō).

Costus (kŏs'tŭs).

Comus (kō'mŭs).

Cupid (Cū'pĭd).

Cyprus (sī'prŭs).

Dalmatian (dăl-mā'shȧn).

Danaë (dā'nā̇̇-ē).

Daphne (dăf'nē).

Diana (dī-ăn'ȧ or dī-ā'nȧ).

Ecce Homo (ĕk'kĕ or ĕk'sḗ  hō'mō).

Egypt (ē'jĭpt).

Endymion (ĕn-dĭm'ĭ-ŭn).

Ephesus (ĕf'ḗ-sŭs).

Ezekiel (ē-zē'kĭ-ĕl).

Galilee (găl'ĭ-lē).

Giorno, Il (ēl jôr'nō).

Giovanni Evangelista (jō̇-vän'nē̇ ā-vän-jā-lēs'tä).

Guido Reni (gwē'dō rā'nē).

Hazlitt (Hăz'lĭtt).

Heilige Nacht (hī'lḗG-ŭ näKt).

Heaton (hē'tŭn).

Herod (Hĕr'ŏd).

Hesperus (Hĕs'pẽrŭs).

Hippo (Hĭp'pō).

Horace (hôr'ā̇̇s).

Ignem gladio ne fodias (ḗg'nĕm glä'-dḗ-ō nā fō'dḗ-äs).

Jerome (jē̇-rōm' or jĕr'ŏm).

Jerusalem (Jĕrū'sȧlĕm).

Jordan (Jôr'dȧn).

Judæa (jū̇-dē̇'ȧ).

Keats (kēts).

Kugler (kōōg'lẽr).

Layard (Lāy'ȧrd).

Lemnian (Lĕm'nĭȧn).

Madonna (Mȧdŏn'nȧ).

Magdalene (Măg'dā̇-lē̇n).

Marcella (mär-sĕl'ȧ).

Matthew (mă'thū).

Mater Dolorosa (mā'tẽr dŏl-ṓ-rō'sȧ or mä'tār dō-lō-rō'sä).

Maxentius (măks-ĕn'shĭ-ŭs).

Mars (Märs).

Meyer (mī'ẽr).

Michelangelo (mē-kĕl-än'jā̇-lō).

Milan (mĭl'ȧn or mĭ-lăn').

Monica (Mŏn'ĭcȧ).

Moore (mōr or mōōr).

Moschus (mŏs'kŭs).

Morelli (mō-rĕl'ḗ).

Nazareth (Năz'ȧrĕth).

Nicodemus (nĭk-ō-dē'mŭs).

Noli me tangere (nō'lḗ mā tän'gā̇̇-rā̇̇ or nō'lī  mē  tăn'jĕ-rḗ).

Notte, La (lä nōt'tā̇̇).

Numidia (Nūmĭd'ĭȧ).

Palestine (Păl'ĕstīne).

Paolo (Pä'ōlō).

Parma (Pär'mä).

Patmos (Păt'mŏs).

Paula (pa̤'lȧ).

Pharisee (făr'ĭ-sē).

Piacenza (pē-ä-chĕn'dzä).

Plato (Plā'tō).

Pontius Pilate (pŏn'shĭ-ŭs pĭ'lāt).

putti (pŏŏt'tē).

Rabboni (Răbbō'nĭ).

Raphael (rä'fā-ĕl).

Rex Regum (rāks rā'gōōm).

Ricci, Corrado (kōr-rä'dō rēt'chē).

Ruskin (Rŭs'kĭn).

Sala del Pergolato (sä'lä dĕl pair-gō-lä'tō).

Scipione Montino (shē-pē-ō'nā̇̇ mōn-tē'nō).

Scodella (skō-dĕl'lä).

Sebastian (sḗ-băst'yȧn).

Simmonds (sĭm'ŭndz).

Symonds (sĭm'ŭndz).

Syria (sĭr'ĭ-ȧ).

Te Deum (tā  dā'ōōm or tē  dē'ŭm).

Titan (tī'tȧn).

Titian (tĭsh'ȧn).

Umbrian (ŭm'brĭ-ȧn).

Vasari (vä sä'rē̇).

Venus (Vē'nŭs).

Vere, Aubrey de (aa̤'brĭ dē vēr).

Vulcan (Vŭl'cȧn).

Vulgate (Vŭl'gāte).

Wordsworth (wẽrdz'wẽrth).

Zebedee (Zĕb'ĕdēē).

       *       *       *       *       *

