This opportunity came with the outbreak of the American Revolution which at the outset was
merely an organized and armed protest against what the colonies regarded as an arbitrary and
unconstitutional exercise of the taxing power. As there was no widespread or general dissatisfaction
with the form of the English government, there is scarcely room for doubt that if England had
shown a more prudent and conciliatory spirit toward the colonies, the American Revolution would
have been averted. No sooner, however, had the controversy with the mother country reached
the acute revolutionary stage, than the forces which had been silently and unconsciously working
toward democracy, found an opportunity for political expression. The spirit of resistance to
what was regarded as unconstitutional taxation rapidly assumed the form of avowed opposition
to the English Constitution itself. The people were ready for a larger measure of political
democracy than the English Constitution of the eighteenth century permitted. To this new and
popular view of government the Declaration of Independence gave expression. This was a complete
and sweeping repudiation of the English political system, which recognized the right of monarchy
and aristocracy to thwart the will of the people.

To what extent the Declaration of Independence voiced the general sentiment of the colonies
is largely a matter of conjecture. It is probable, however, that its specification of grievances
and its vigorous arraignment of the colonial policy of the English government appealed to many
who had little sympathy with its express and implied advocacy of democracy. It is doubtless
true that many were carried along with the revolutionary movement who by temperament and education
were strongly attached to English political traditions. It is safe to conclude that a large
proportion of those who desired to see American independence established did not believe in
thoroughgoing political democracy.

Besides those who desired independence without being in sympathy with the political views expressed
in the Declaration of Independence, there were many others who were opposed to the whole Revolutionary
movement. The numerical strength of the Tories can not be accurately estimated; but it is certain
that a large proportion, probably not less than one-third of the total population of the colonies,
did not approve of the war.[4]

"In the first place, there was, prior to 1776, the official class; that is, the men holding
various positions in the civil and military and naval services of the government, their immediate
families, and their social connections. All such persons may be described as inclining to the
Loyalist view in consequence of official bias.

"Next were certain colonial politicians who, it may be admitted, took a rather selfish and
an unprincipled view of the whole dispute, and who, counting on the probable, if not inevitable,
success of the British arms in such a conflict, adopted the Loyalist side, not for conscience'
sake, but for profit's sake, and in the expectation of being rewarded for their fidelity by
offices and titles, and especially by the confiscated estates of the rebels after the rebels
themselves should have been defeated, and their leaders hanged or sent into exile.

"As composing still another class of Tories, may be mentioned probably a vast majority of those
who stood for the commercial interests, for the capital and tangible property of the country,
and who, with the instincts natural to persons who have something considerable to lose, disapproved
of all measures for pushing the dispute to the point of disorder, riot and civil war.

"Still another class of Loyalists was made up of people of professional training and occupation--clergymen,
physicians, lawyers, teachers--a clear majority of whom seem to have been set against the ultimate
measures of the Revolution.

"Finally, and in general, it may be said that a majority of those who, of whatever occupation,
of whatever grade of culture or of wealth, would now be described as conservative people, were
Loyalists during the American Revolution."[5]

These classes prior to the Revolution had largely shaped and molded public opinion; but their
opposition to the movement which they were powerless to prevent, destroyed their influence,
for the time being, in American politics. The place which they had hitherto held in public
esteem was filled by a new class of leaders more in sympathy with the newly born spirit of
liberalism. This gave to the revolutionary movement a distinctly democratic character.

This drift toward democracy is seen in the changes made in the state constitutions after the
outbreak of the Revolution. At the close of the colonial period, nearly all the state governments
were modeled after the government of Great Britain. Each colony had its legislative body elected
by the qualified voters and corresponding in a general way to the House of Commons. In all
the colonies except Pennsylvania and Georgia there was also an upper legislative house or council
whose consent was necessary before laws could be enacted. The members composing this branch
of the legislature were appointed by the governor except in Massachusetts where they were elected
by the lower branch of the legislature, subject to a negative by the royal governor, and in
Rhode Island and Connecticut where they were chosen by the electorate.

The governor was elected by the voters only in Rhode Island and Connecticut; in all the other
colonies he was appointed by the proprietaries or the Crown, and, though independent of the
people, exercised many important powers. He was commander-in-chief of the armed forces of the
colony; appointed the judges and all other civil and military officers; appointed and could
suspend the council, which was usually the upper branch of the legislature; he could convene
and dissolve the legislature and had besides an unqualified veto on all laws; he also had an
unrestricted pardoning power.

The possession of these far-reaching powers gave to the irresponsible executive branch of the
colonial government a position of commanding importance. This was not the case, however, in
Connecticut and Rhode Island. Although the governor in these two colonies was responsible to
the voters, inasmuch as he was elected by them, still he had no veto, and the appointing power
was in the hands of the legislature.

The tidal-wave of democracy, which swept over the colonies during the Revolution, largely effaced
the monarchical and aristocratic features of the colonial governments. Connecticut and Rhode
Island, which already had democratic constitutions, were the only states which did not modify
their form of government during this period. All the rest adopted new constitutions which show
in a marked degree the influence of the democratic movement. In these new constitutions we
see a strong tendency to subordinate the executive branch of the government and confer all
important powers on the legislature. In the four New England states and in New York the governor
was elected by the qualified voters; in all the rest he was chosen by the legislature. In ten
states during this period his term of office was one year; in South Carolina it was two and
in New York and Delaware it was three years. In addition to this the six Southern states restricted
his re-election. Besides, there was in every state an executive or privy council which the
governor was required to consult on all important matters. This was usually appointed by the
legislature and constituted an important check on the governor.

The power to veto legislation was abolished in all but two states. In Massachusetts the governor,
and in New York the Council of Revision composed of the governor and the chancellor and judges
of the Supreme Court, had a qualified veto power. But a two-thirds majority in both houses
of the legislature could override the veto of the governor in Massachusetts, or that of the
Council of Revision in New York. The pardoning power of the governor was quite generally restricted.
In five states he was allowed to exercise it only with the advice or consent of the council.[6]
In three states, where the advice or consent of a council was not required, he could, subject
to certain restrictions, grant pardons except where "the law shall otherwise direct."[7] The
constitution of Georgia in express terms deprived the governor of all right to exercise this power.

The appointing power of the governor was also taken away or restricted. In four of the eleven
states adopting new constitutions during this period he was allowed to exercise it jointly
with the council.[8] In six states it was given to the legislature, or to the legislature and
council.[9] The power of the governor to dissolve the legislature or either branch of it was
everywhere abolished.

The supremacy of the legislature under these early state constitutions is seen also in the
manner of appointment, the tenure and the powers of the judiciary. In nine states[10] the judges
were elected by the state legislature, either with or without the consent of a council. In
Maryland, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, and Pennsylvania they were appointed by the governor
with the consent of the council. But this really amounted to indirect legislative appointment
in Maryland, since both the governor and council in that state were elected annually by the
legislature. The legislature also had a voice in the appointment of judges in Pennsylvania,
New Hampshire and Massachusetts, since it elected the executive in the first and the council
in the others. In nine states, then, the judges were elected directly by the legislature; in
one indirectly by the legislature; in the other three the legislature participated in their
election through an executive or a council of its own choosing.

In every state the judges could be impeached by the lower branch of the legislature and expelled
from office on conviction by the senate or other tribunal, as the constitution prescribed.
Moreover, in six states[11] they could be removed according to the English custom by the executive
on an address from both branches of the legislature. The term of office of the judges in eight
states[12] was during good behavior. In New Jersey and Pennsylvania they were appointed for
seven years, and in Rhode Island, Connecticut, and Georgia they were chosen annually.

The legislature under these early state constitutions was hampered neither by the executive
nor by the courts. It had all law-making power in its own hands. In no state could the courts
thwart its purpose by declaring its acts null and void. Unchecked by either executive or judicial
veto its supremacy was undisputed.

From the foregoing synopsis of the state constitutions of this period it is evident that their
framers rejected entirely the English theory of checks and balances. The principle of separation
of powers as expounded by Montesquieu and Blackstone, found little favor with those who controlled
American politics at this time. Instead of trying to construct a state government composed
of coordinate branches, each acting as a check upon the others, their aim was to make the legislature
supreme. In this respect the early state constitutions anticipated much of the later development
of the English government itself.

The checks and balances, and separation of powers, which characterized the government of England
and her American colonies in the eighteenth century, resulted from the composite character
of the English Constitution--its mixture of monarchy, aristocracy, and democracy. It is not
surprising, then, that with the temporary ascendency of the democratic spirit, the system of
checks should have been largely discarded.

This democratic tendency is seen also in our first federal constitution, the Articles of Confederation,
which was framed under the impulse of the Revolutionary movement. This document is interesting
as an expression of the political philosophy of the Revolution; but like the state constitutions
of that period, it has had few friendly critics among later political writers. Much emphasis
has been put upon its defects, which were many, while but little attention has been given to
the political theory which it imperfectly embodied. That it failed to provide a satisfactory
general government may be admitted; but this result must not be accepted as conclusive proof
that the principles underlying it were altogether false.

The chief feature of the Articles of Confederation was the entire absence of checks and balances.
All the powers conferred upon the general government were vested in a single legislative body
called the Continental Congress, which was unchecked by a distinct executive or judiciary.
In this respect it bore a striking resemblance to the English government of to-day with its
omnipotent House of Commons. But, unlike the English government of to-day, its powers were
few and narrowly limited. Its failure was due, perhaps, not to the fact that the powers granted
to the confederation were vested exclusively in a single legislative body, but to the fact
that the powers thus granted were not sufficient for maintaining a strong and effective central
government.

The reason for the weakness of the general government under the Articles of Confederation is
obvious to the student of American history. It was only gradually, and as necessity compelled
cooperation between the colonies, that the sentiment in favor of political union developed.
And though some tendencies in this direction are seen more than a century before the American
Revolution, the progress toward a permanent union was slow and only the pressure of political
necessity finally brought it about.

As early as 1643 Massachusetts, Plymouth, Connecticut and New Haven formed a "perpetual confederation"
under the name of the "United Colonies of New England." The motive for this union was mainly
offence and defence against the Indian tribes and the Dutch, though provision was also made
for the extradition of servants and fugitives from justice. The management of the common interests
of these colonies was vested in a board of eight commissioners--two from each colony--and,
in transacting the business of the confederacy, the consent of six of the eight commissioners
was required. Any matter which could not be thus disposed of was to be referred to the four
colonial legislatures. The general government thus provided for could not inter-meddle "with
the government of any of the jurisdictions." No provision was made for amending the "Articles
of Confederation," and only by the unanimous consent of these colonies could any other colony
be admitted to the confederacy. This union lasted for over forty years.[13]

Again in 1754 the pressure of impending war with the French and Indians brought together at
Albany a convention of delegates from seven colonies north of the Potomac. A plan of union
drafted by Benjamin Franklin was recommended by this convention, but it was not regarded with
favor either by the colonies or by the English government. The former regarded it as going
too far in the direction of subordinating the separate colonies to a central colonial authority,
while for the latter it was too democratic.[14]

The union of all the colonies under the Articles of Confederation was finally brought about
through the pressure of military necessity during the Revolution. Nor is it surprising, in
view of the history of the American colonies, that they reluctantly yielded up any powers to
a central authority. We must bear in mind that the Revolution was in a measure a democratic
movement, and that democracy was then found only in local government. The general governments
of all countries were at that time monarchical or aristocratic. Tyranny in the eighteenth century
was associated in the minds of the people with an undue extension or abuse of the powers exercised
by the undemocratic central government. It is not surprising, then, that the Revolutionary
federal constitution, the Articles of Confederation, should have failed to provide a general
government sufficiently strong to satisfy the needs of the country after the return of peace.

It must not be inferred, however, that the political changes which immediately followed the
outbreak of the Revolution were in the nature of sweeping democratic reforms. Much that was
thoroughly undemocratic remained intact. The property qualifications for the suffrage were
not disturbed by the Revolutionary movement and were finally abolished only after the lapse
of nearly half a century. The cruel and barbarous system of imprisonment for debt which the
colonies had inherited from England, and which often made the lot of the unfortunate debtor
worse than that of the chattel slave, continued in several of the states until long after the
Revolution. Marked as was the democratic tendency during the first few years of our independence,
it nevertheless left untouched much that the progress of democracy has since abolished.

CHAPTER III

THE CONSTITUTION A REACTIONARY DOCUMENT

The sweeping changes made in our form of government after the Declaration of Independence were
clearly revolutionary in character. The English system of checks and balances was discarded
for the more democratic one under which all the important powers of government were vested
in the legislature. This new scheme of government was not, however, truly representative of
the political thought of the colonies. The conservative classes who in ordinary times are a
powerful factor in the politics of every community had, by reason of their Loyalist views,
no voice in this political reorganization; and these, as we have seen, not only on account
of their wealth and intelligence, but on the basis of their numerical strength as well, were
entitled to considerable influence.

With the return of peace these classes which so largely represented the wealth and culture
of the colonies, regained in a measure the influence which they had lost. This tended strongly
to bring about a conservative reaction. There was besides another large class which supported
the Revolutionary movement without being in sympathy with its democratic tendencies. This also
used its influence to undo the work of the Revolutionary radicals. Moreover, many of those
who had espoused democratic doctrines during the Revolution became conservatives after the
war was over.[15] These classes were naturally opposed to the new political doctrines which
the Revolutionary movement had incorporated in the American government. The "hard times" and
general discontent which followed the war also contributed to the reactionary movement; since
many were led to believe that evils which were the natural result of other causes were due
to an excess of democracy. Consequently we find the democratic tendency which manifested itself
with the outbreak of the Revolution giving place a few years later to the political reaction
which found expression in our present Constitution.

"The United States are the offspring of a long-past age. A hundred years, it is true, have
scarcely passed since the eighteenth century came to its end, but no hundred years in the history
of the world has ever before hurried it along so far over new paths and into unknown fields.
The French Revolution and the First Empire were the bridge between two periods that nothing
less than the remaking of European society, the recasting of European politics, could have
brought so near.

"But back to this eighteenth century must we go to learn the forces, the national ideas, the
political theories, under the domination of which the Constitution of the United States was
framed and adopted."[16]

It is the general belief, nevertheless, that the Constitution of the United States is the very
embodiment of democratic philosophy. The people take it for granted that the framers of that
document were imbued with the spirit of political equality and sought to establish a government
by the people themselves. Widely as this view is entertained, it is, however, at variance with
the facts. In the convention which drafted that instrument it was recognized that democratic
ideas had made sufficient progress among the masses to put an insurmountable obstacle in the
way of any plan of government which did not confer at least the form of political power upon
the people. Accordingly the efforts of the Constitutional Convention were directed to the task
of devising a system of government which was just popular enough not to excite general opposition
and which at the same time gave to the people as little as possible of the substance of political
power.

It is somewhat strange that the American people know so little of the fundamental nature of
their system of government. Their acquaintance with it extends only to its outward form and
rarely includes a knowledge of the political philosophy upon which it rests. The sources of
information upon which the average man relies do not furnish the data for a correct understanding
of the Constitution. The ordinary text-books and popular works upon this subject leave the
reader with an entirely erroneous impression. Even the writings of our constitutional lawyers
deal with the outward form rather than the spirit of our government. The vital question--the
extent to which, under our constitutional arrangements, the people were expected to, and as
a matter of fact do, control legislation and public policy, is either not referred to, or else
discussed in a superficial and unsatisfactory manner. That this feature of our Constitution
should receive more attention than it does is evident when we reflect that a government works
well in practice in proportion as its underlying philosophy and constitutional forms are comprehended
by those who wield political power.

"It has been common," says a late Justice of the United States Supreme Court, "to designate
our form of government as a democracy, but in the true sense in which that term is properly
used, as defining a government in which all its acts are performed by the people, it is about
as far from it as any other of which we are aware."[18]

In the United States at the present time we are trying to make an undemocratic Constitution
the vehicle of democratic rule. Our Constitution embodies the political philosophy of the eighteenth
century, not that of to-day. It was framed for one purpose while we are trying to use it for
another. Is free government, then, being tried here under the conditions most favorable to
its success? This question we can answer only when we have considered our Constitution as a
means to the attainment of democratic rule.

It is difficult to understand how anyone who has read the proceedings of the Federal Convention
can believe that it was the intention of that body to establish a democratic government. The
evidence is overwhelming that the men who sat in that convention had no faith in the wisdom
or political capacity of the people. Their aim and purpose was not to secure a larger measure
of democracy, but to eliminate as far as possible the direct influence of the people on legislation
and public policy. That body, it is true, contained many illustrious men who were actuated
by a desire to further what they conceived to be the welfare of the country. They represented,
however, the wealthy and conservative classes, and had for the most part but little sympathy
with the popular theory of government.

"Hardly one among them but had sat in some famous assembly, had signed some famous document,
had filled some high place, or had made himself conspicuous for learning, for scholarship,
or for signal services rendered in the cause of liberty. One had framed the Albany plan of
union; some had been members of the Stamp Act Congress of 1765; some had signed the Declaration
of Rights in 1774; the names of others appear at the foot of the Declaration of Independence
and at the foot of the Articles of Confederation; two had been presidents of Congress; seven
had been, or were then, governors of states; twenty-eight had been members of Congress; one
had commanded the armies of the United States; another had been Superintendent of Finance;
a third had repeatedly been sent on important missions to England, and had long been Minister
to France.

"Nor were the future careers of many of them to be less interesting than their past. Washington
and Madison became Presidents of the United States; Elbridge Gerry became Vice-President; Charles
Cotesworth Pinckney and Rufus King became candidates for the Presidency, and Jared Ingersoll,
Rufus King, and John Langdon candidates for the Vice-Presidency; Hamilton became Secretary
of the Treasury; Madison, Secretary of State; Randolph, Attorney-General and Secretary of State,
and James McHenry, a Secretary of War; Ellsworth and Rutledge became Chief-Justices; Wilson
and John Blair rose to the Supreme bench; Gouverneur Morris, and Ellsworth, and Charles C.
Pinckney, and Gerry, and William Davie became Ministers abroad."[19]

The long list of distinguished men who took part in the deliberations of that body is noteworthy,
however, for the absence of such names as Samuel Adams, Thomas Jefferson, Thomas Paine, Patrick
Henry and other democratic leaders of that time. The Federal Convention assembled in Philadelphia
only eleven years after the Declaration of Independence was signed, yet only six of the fifty-six
men who signed that document were among its members.[20] Conservatism and thorough distrust
of popular government characterized throughout the proceedings of that convention. Democracy,
Elbridge Gerry thought, was the worst of all political evils.[21] Edmund Randolph observed
that in tracing the political evils of this country to their origin, "every man [in the Convention]
had found it in the turbulence and follies of democracy."[22] These views appear to reflect
the general opinion of that body. Still they realized that it was not the part of wisdom to
give public expression to this contempt for democracy. The doors were closed to the public
and the utmost secrecy maintained with regard to the proceedings. Members were not allowed
to communicate with any one outside of that body concerning the matters therein discussed,
nor were they permitted, except by a vote of the Convention, to copy anything from the journals.[23]

It must be borne in mind that the Convention was called for the purpose of proposing amendments
to the Articles of Confederation. The delegates were not authorized to frame a new constitution.
Their appointment contemplated changes which were to perfect the Articles of Confederation
without destroying the general form of government which they established. The resolution of
Congress of February 21, 1787, which authorized the Federal Convention, limited its business
to "the sole and express purpose of revising the Articles of Confederation," and the states
of New York, Massachusetts, and Connecticut copied this in the instructions to their delegates.[24]
The aim of the Convention, however, from the very start was not amendment, but a complete rejection
of the system itself, which was regarded as incurably defective.

This view was well expressed by James Wilson in his speech made in favor of the ratification
of the Constitution before the Pennsylvania convention.

"The business, we are told, which was entrusted to the late Convention," he said, "was merely
to amend the present Articles of Confederation. This observation has been frequently made,
and has often brought to my mind a story that is related of Mr. Pope, who, it is well known,
was not a little deformed. It was customary with him to use this phrase, 'God mend me!' when
any little accident happened. One evening a link-boy was lighting him along, and, coming to
a gutter, the boy jumped nimbly over it. Mr Pope called to him to turn, adding, 'God mend me!'
The arch rogue, turning to light him, looked at him, and repeated, 'God mend you! He would
sooner make half-a-dozen new ones.' This would apply to the present Confederation; for it would
be easier to make another than to amend this."[25]

The popular notion that this Convention in framing the Constitution was actuated solely by
a desire to impart more vigor and efficiency to the general government is but a part of the
truth. The Convention desired to establish not only a strong and vigorous central government,
but one which would at the same time possess great stability or freedom from change. This last
reason is seldom mentioned in our constitutional literature, yet it had a most important bearing
on the work of the Convention. This desired stability the government under the Confederation
did not possess, since it was, in the opinion of the members of the Convention, dangerously
responsive to public opinion; hence their desire to supplant it with an elaborate system of
constitutional checks. The adoption of this system was the triumph of a skillfully directed
reactionary movement.

Of course the spirit and intention of the Convention must be gathered not from the statements
and arguments addressed to the general public in favor of the ratification of the Constitution,
but from what occurred in the Convention itself. The discussions which took place in that body
indicate the real motives and purposes of those who framed the Constitution. These were carefully
withheld from the people and it was not until long afterward that they were accessible to students
of the American Constitution. The preamble began with, "We, the people," but it was the almost
unanimous sentiment of the Convention that the less the people had to do with the government
the better.

The framers of the Constitution realized, however, that it would not do to carry this system
of checks upon the people too far. It was necessary that the government should retain something
of the form of democracy, if it was to command the respect and confidence of the people. For
this reason Gerry thought that "the people should appoint one branch of the government in order
to inspire them with the necessary confidence."[29] Madison also saw that the necessary sympathy
between the people and their rulers and officers must be maintained and that "the policy of
refining popular appointments by successive filtrations" might be pushed too far.[30] These
discussions, which took place behind closed doors and under pledge of secrecy, may be taken
as fairly representing what the framers of our Constitution really thought of popular government.
Their public utterances, on the other hand, influenced as they necessarily were, by considerations
of public policy, are of little value. From all the evidence which we have, the conclusion
is irresistible that they sought to establish a form of government which would effectually
curb and restrain democracy. They engrafted upon the Constitution just so much of the features
of popular government as was, in their opinion, necessary to ensure its adoption.

CHAPTER IV

THE SIGNIFICANCE OF THE AMENDMENT FEATURE OF THE CONSTITUTION

All democratic constitutions are flexible and easy to amend. This follows from the fact that
in a government which the people really control, a constitution is merely the means of securing
the supremacy of public opinion and not an instrument for thwarting it. Such a constitution
can not be regarded as a check upon the people themselves. It is a device for securing to them
that necessary control over their agents and representatives, without which popular government
exists only in name. A government is democratic just in proportion as it responds to the will
of the people; and since one way of defeating the will of the people is to make it difficult
to alter the form of government, it necessarily follows that any constitution which is democratic
in spirit must yield readily to changes in public opinion.

Monarchical and aristocratic constitutions on the other hand are always extremely conservative.
Inasmuch as they express the opinion and guarantee the privileges of a dominant class, they
are bulwarks erected against popular change. The privileged classes of any society regard stability
as the chief political desideratum. They resist, and if possible prevent, those legal and political
readjustments which the general progress of society makes necessary. Their interests are furthered
in proportion as the system is one which renders change difficult.

With this distinction in mind let us examine the Constitution of the United States. Was it
the intention of the framers of this instrument that it should be merely a check upon the governmental
machinery with the view of establishing popular control over it, or was it expected to constitute
a check upon the people themselves? That it was not intended that the people should be given
direct and complete control over the general policy of the government is clear from the fact
that the Constitution was made so difficult to amend; for the right to control the political
machinery, implies of necessity the right to make such changes in it from time to time, as
are needed to make this control effective. It is evident from the views expressed in the Convention
that one object of the Constitution was to secure stability by placing the government beyond
the direct influence of public opinion.

Madison, who has been called the "father of the Constitution," thought it "ought to secure
the permanent interests of the country against innovation."[31] Hamilton said "all communities
divide themselves into the few and the many. The first are the rich and well born, the other
the mass of the people ... [the latter] are turbulent and changing; they seldom judge or determine
right." Therefore he advocated a permanent senate which would be able to "check the imprudence
of democracy."[32] Gouverneur Morris observed that "the first branch [of the proposed Federal
Congress], originating from the people, will ever be subject to precipitancy, changeability,
and excess.... This can only be checked by ability and virtue in the second branch ... [which]
ought to be composed of men of great and established property--aristocracy; men who, from pride,
will support consistency and permanency; and to make them completely independent, they must
be chosen for life, or they will be a useless body. Such an aristocratic body will keep down
the turbulence of democracy."[33]

This dread of the consequences of popular government was shared to a greater or less extent
by nearly all the members of that Convention. Their aim was to find a cure for what they conceived
to be the evils of an excess of democracy.

