The customs of the world now give me nothing but pain. From the bosom of the retirement where
I have been secluded for these 15 years, I can judge, without prepossession, of the extraordinary
revolution in manners which has lately taken place. Old impressions are replaced, it is said,
by new ones; that is all. Are, then, the new ones superior? I cannot believe it. Morality itself
is rapidly undergoing dissolution--every character is contaminated, and no one knows from whence
the poison is inhaled. Young men now lounge away their evenings in the box of a theatre, or
the Boulevards, or carry on elegant conversation with a fair seller of gloves and perfumery,
make compliments on her lily and vermilion cheeks, and present her with a cheap ring, accompanied
with a gross and indelicate compliment. Society is so disunited, that it is daily becoming
more vulgar, in the literal sense of the word. Whence any improvement is to arise, God only knows.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GATHERER.

       *       *       *       *       *

CURRAN AND THE MASTIFF.

Bishop Ken.--This English prelate died as he was on a journey to Bath, in March, 1710, in the
seventy-fourth year of his age. He had been in the habit of travelling many years with his
shroud in his portmanteau, which he always put on when attacked by illness; of this he gave
notice the day before his death, in order to prevent his body from being stripped.      P.T.W.

Warning to Cowards.--There was a soldier that vaunted before Julius Caesar, of the hurts he
had received in his face. Caesar knowing him to be but a coward, told him, "You had best heed
next time you run away, how you look back."--Lord Bacon.

Love and Murder.--"Hipparchus, going to marry, consulted Philander upon the occasion; Philander
represented his mistress in such strong colours, that the next morning he received a challenge,
and before twelve he was run through the body."--Spectator.

Portugal.--Its ancient name was Lusitaenia. Its present name is derived from that of an ancient
town called "Calle," on or near the site of the present Oporto, which was called "Portus Cale,"
or the Port of Cale; and in process of time the name of this port was extended to the whole
country, whence "Portucal," or Portugal. Portus Cale was afterwards called "O Porto" (the harbour,)
which name the town of Oporto ultimately received.     P.T.W.

Perfection of Steam Navigation.--During the last four months, the Firebrand, steam-vessel from
Falmouth, has traversed two voyages to Corfu, and one to Lisbon, a distance of 11,500 miles,
which gives for the number of days, 66; she steamed, an average of 174 miles per day.

Chinese and Russian Cookery.--In China, if the cook employed in preparing the Imperial repasts,
introduces any prohibited ingredients, even by inadvertence, he is punished with a hundred
blows; if any of the dishes of food be not clean, he is liable to eighty blows; and if the
cook omits to ascertain the quality of the dishes by tasting, he incurs fifty blows.

There cannot be a grand dinner in Russia without sterlet. In summer, when brought alive from
Archangel, &c., these cost from five hundred to one thousand rubles each; a fish soup, made
with champagne and other expensive wines, has been known to cost three thousand rubles; no
water is allowed to enter into the composition of these expensive soups; and the whole company
get very merry and talkative after partaking of them.

Honest Tar.--John Barth, the Dunkirk fisherman, rose by his courage and naval skill, to the
rank of commodore of a squadron in the navy of France. When he was ennobled by Louis XIV. the
king said to him, "John Barth, I have made you a commodore." John replied, "you have done right."