Field Marshal French says the Second Corps, under Gen. Smith-Dorrien, was opposed by overpowering
forces of Germans, but nevertheless advanced until Oct. 18, when the German opposition compelled
a reinforcement. Six days later the Lahore Division of the Indian army was sent to support
the Second Corps.

On Oct. 16 Sir Henry Rawlinson, who had covered the retreat of the Belgian army from Antwerp
with two divisions of English cavalry and two divisions of French infantry, was stationed on
the line east of Ypres under orders to operate over a wide front and to keep possession of
all the ground held by the Allies until the First Army Corps could reach Ypres.

Gen. Rawlinson was opposed by superior forces and was unable to prevent the Germans from getting
large reinforcements. With four army corps holding a much wider front than their size justified,
Field Marshal French says he faced a stubborn situation. The enemy was massed from the Lys,
and there was imperative need for a strengthened line.

However, the Field Marshal decided to send the First Corps north of Ypres to stop the reinforcements
which might enable the Germans to flank the Allies. The shattered Belgian army and the wearied
French troops' endeavors to check the German reinforcements were powerless, so the British
commander sent fresh troops to prevent the Germans from executing movements which would have
given them access to Channel ports.

Sir Douglas Haig, with the First Army Corps, was sent Oct. 19 to capture Bruges and drive the
enemy back toward Ghent, if possible. Meantime the Belgians intrenched themselves along the
Ypres Canal. Sir John French commends the valor of the Belgians, who, he says, exhausted by
weeks of constant fighting, maintained these positions gallantly.

Because of the overwhelming numbers of the Germans opposing them, he says he enjoined a defensive
rôle upon the three army corps located south of Ypres. While Gen. Haig made a slight advance,
Sir John says it was wonderful that he was able to advance at all, owing to the bad roads and
the overwhelming number of Germans, which made it impossible to carry out the original plan
of moving to Bruges.

The fighting gradually developed into bayonet charges. Field Marshal French says that Oct.
21 brought forth the hardest attack, made on the First Corps at Ypres, in the checking of which
the Worcestershire Regiment displayed great gallantry. This day marked the most critical period
in the great battle, according to the Commander in Chief, who says the recapture of the village
of Gheluvelt through a rally of the Worcestershires was fraught with much consequence to the
Allies.

After referring to some of the battles in which the Indian troops took part, Field Marshal
French says:

"Since their arrival in this country and their occupation of the line allotted to them I have
been much impressed by the initiative and resource displayed by the Indian troops. Some of
the ruses they have employed to deceive the enemy have been attended with the best results
and have doubtless kept the superior forces in front of them at bay. Our Indian sappers and
miners have long enjoyed a high reputation for skill and resource. Without going into detail
I can confidently assert that throughout their work in this campaign they have fully justified
that reputation.

"The General officer commanding the Indian army describes the conduct and bearing of these
troops in strange and new surroundings to have been highly satisfactory, and I am enabled from
my own observations to fully corroborate this statement."

Sir John French goes on to say that, while the whole line continued to be heavily pressed,
the Germans' efforts from Nov. 1 have been concentrated upon breaking through the line held
by the First British and the Ninth French Corps and thus gaining possession of the town of
Ypres. Three Bavarian and one German corps, in addition to other troops, were all directed
against this northern line.

About Nov. 10, after several units of these corps had been completely shattered in futile attacks,
the Field Marshal continues, a division of the Prussian Guard, which had been operating in
the vicinity of Arras, was moved up to this area with great speed and secrecy. Documents found
on dead officers, the report says, proved that the Guard received the German Emperor's special
command to break through and succeed where their comrades of the line had failed. They took
the leading part in the vigorous attacks made against the centre on the 11th and 12th, says
Field Marshal French, but, like their comrades, were repulsed with enormous casualties. The
Field Marshal predicts that "their deeds during these days of stress and trial will furnish
some of the most brilliant chapters which will be found in the military history of our time."

High praise is also given the Third Cavalry Division under Major Gen. Julian Byng, whose troops
"were repeatedly called upon to restore situations at critical points and fill gaps in the
line caused by the tremendous losses which occurred."

The Commander in Chief makes special mention of Col. Gordon Chesney Wilson of the Royal Horse
Guards, Major the Hon. Hugh Dawnay of the Second Life Guards, and Brig. Gen. FitzClarence of
the Irish Guards, who were killed, and of Brig. Gen. the Earl of Cavan, who "on many occasions
was conspicuous for the skill, coolness, and courage with which he led his troops."

Of the Flying Corps the report says:

"Every day new methods of employing them, both strategically and tactically, are discovered
and put into practice."

Concerning the Territorials who have been employed, the Field Marshal says the conduct and
bearing of these units under fire and the efficient manner in which they have carried out the
duties assigned to them "has imbued me with the highest hope as to the value and the help of
the Territorial troops generally."

*Story of the "Eye-Witness"*

*By Col. E.D. Swinton of the Intelligence Department of the British General Staff.*

     From the beginning of the war world-wide attention has been
     attracted to the reports issued from time to time as coming from
     "an eye-witness at British General Headquarters." At first these
     reports were erroneously ascribed to Marshal French himself, and
     resulted in much admiring comment on his vivid and graphic way of
     reporting. Later it became known that they were the work of Col.
     Swinton, who was attached to Gen. French's headquarters in the
     capacity of "official observer."

I.

*The Battle of the Aisne Begins*

[By the "Official Observer," Col. E.D. Swinton.]

General Headquarters, Sept. 18, 1914.

The action, now being fought by the Germans along their line, may, it is true, have been undertaken
in order to gain time for some strategic operation or move, and may not be their main stand.

Whether it was originally intended by them to defend the position they took up as strenuously
as they have done, or whether the delay, gained for them during the 12th and 13th by their
artillery, has enabled them to develop their resistance and force their line to an extent not
originally contemplated cannot yet be said. The cavalry also took a number of prisoners. Many
of the Germans taken belong to the reserve and Landwehr formations, which fact appears to indicate
that the enemy is compelled to draw on other classes of soldiers to fill the gaps in his ranks.

In order to counterbalance these measures were taken by us to economize our troops and to secure
protection from the hostile artillery fire, which was very fierce, and our men continued to
improve their own intrenchments.

An attempt to advance slightly, made by part of our line, was unsuccessful as regards gain
of ground, but led to the withdrawal of part of the enemy's infantry and artillery. Our artillery
fire drove the defenders off one of the salients of their position, but they returned in the
evening. Forty prisoners were taken by the Third Division.

     FRANCHET D'ESPEREY,
     General Commanding the Fifth Army.
     Montmirail, Sept. 9, 1914.

The Germans are a formidable enemy, well trained, long prepared, and brave. Their soldiers
are carrying on the contest with skill and valor. Nevertheless they are fighting to win anyhow,
regardless of all the rules of fair play, and there is evidence that they do not hesitate at
anything in order to gain victory.

A large number of the tales of their misbehaviors are exaggeration and some of the stringent
precautions they have taken to guard themselves against the inhabitants of the areas traversed
are possibly justifiable measures of war. But, at the same time, it has been definitely established
that they have committed atrocities on many occasions and they have been guilty of brutal conduct.
I will try to tell you about it.

Among the minor happenings of interest is the following:

During a counter-attack by the German Fifty-third Regiment on positions of the Northampton
and Queen's Regiments on Thursday, the 17th, a force of some 400 of the enemy were allowed
to approach right up to the trench occupied by a platoon of the former regiment, owing to the
fact that they had held up their hands and made gestures that were interpreted as signs that
they wished to surrender. When they were actually on the parapet of the trench held, by the
Northamptons they opened fire on our men at point-blank range.

Unluckily for the enemy, however, flanking them and only some 400 yards away, there happened
to be a machine gun manned by a detachment of the Queen's. This at once opened fire, cutting
a lane through their mass, and they fell back to their own trench with great loss. Shortly
afterward they were driven further back, with additional loss, by a battalion of Guards which
came up in support.

An incident, which occurred some little time ago during our retirement, is also worthy of record.
On Aug. 28, during the battle fought by the French along the Oise between La Fere and Guise,
one of the French commanders desired to make an air reconnoissance. It was found, however,
that no observers were available.

Wishing to help our allies as much as possible a British officer attached to this particular
French army volunteered to go up with the pilot to observe. He had never been in an aeroplane,
but he made the ascent and produced a valuable reconnoissance report.

Incidentally he had a duel in the air at an altitude of 6,000 feet with the observer of a German
Taube monoplane which approached. He fired several shots and drove off the hostile aeroplane.
His action was much appreciated by the French.

In view of the many statements made in the press as to the use of Zeppelins against us, it
is interesting to note that the Royal Flying Corps, who had been out on reconnoissance every
day since their arrival in France, have never seen a Zeppelin, though airships of a non-rigid
type have been seen on two occasions near Marne.

Late one evening two such were observed over the German forces. An aeroplane was dispatched
against them, but in the darkness our pilots were uncertain of the airship's nationality and
did not attack. It was afterward made clear that they could not have been French.

A week later an officer, reconnoitring to the flank, saw an airship over the German forces
and opposite the French. It had no distinguishing mark and was assumed to belong to the latter,
though it is now known that it also must have been a German craft.

The orders of the Royal Flying Corps are to attack Zeppelins at once, and there is some disappointment
at the absence of those targets.

     "September 17, 1914.

     "Once more I have to express my deep appreciation of the splendid
     behavior of the officers, non-commissioned officers, and men of the
     army under my command throughout the great battle of the Aisne,
     which has been in progress since the evening of the 12th inst., and
     the battle of the Marne, which lasted from the morning of the 6th
     to the evening of the 10th and finally ended in the precipitate
     flight of the enemy.

     "When we were brought face to face with a position of extraordinary
     strength, carefully intrenched and prepared for defense by an army
     and staff which are thorough adepts in such work, throughout the
     13th and 14th, that position was most gallantly attacked by the
     British forces and the passage of the Aisne effected. This is the
     third day the troops have been gallantly holding the position they
     have gained against most desperate counter-attacks and the hail of
     heavy artillery.

     "I am unable to find adequately words in which to express the
     admiration I feel for their magnificent conduct.

     "The French armies on our right and left are making good progress,
     and I feel sure that we have only to hold on with tenacity to the
     ground we have won for a very short time longer when the Allies
     will be again in full pursuit of a beaten enemy.

     "The self-sacrificing devotion and splendid spirit of the British
     army in France will carry all before it.

     "J.D.P. FRENCH, Field Marshall,

     "Commander in Chief of the British Army in the Field."

II.

The Germans are making use of searchlights. This fact, coupled with their great strength in
heavy artillery, leads to the supposition that they are employing material which may have been
collected for the siege of Paris.

News also was received that a body of French cavalry had demolished part of the railway to
the north, so cutting, at least temporarily, one line of communication which is of particular
importance to the enemy. Some of their infantry advanced from cover, apparently with the intention
of attacking, but on coming under fire they retired.

There was a strong wind during the day, accompanied by a driving rain. This militated against
the aerial reconnoissance.

In one section of our firing line the occupants of the trenches were under the impression that
they heard a military band in the enemy's lines just before the attack developed. It is now
known that the German infantry started their advance with bands playing.

A considerable amount of information has been gleaned from prisoners. It has been gathered
that our bombardment on the 15th produced a great impression. The opinion is also reported
that our infantry make such good use of ground that the German companies are decimated by our
rifle fire before the British soldier can be seen.

From an official diary captured by the First Army Corps it appears that one of the German corps
contains an extraordinary mixture of units. If the composition of the other corps is similar,
it may be assumed that the present efficiency of the enemy's forces is in no way comparable
with what it was when the war commenced.

The losses in officers are noted as having been especially severe. The prisoners recently captured
appreciate the fact that the march on Paris has failed and that their forces are retreating,
but state that the object of this movement is explained by the officers as being to withdraw
into closer touch with the supports, which have stayed too far in the rear.

The officers are also endeavoring to encourage the troops by telling them that they will be
at home by Christmas. A large number of the men believe that they are beaten.

"According to our officers, the English striking forces are exhausted; the English people really
never wanted war."

