THE O'RUDDY

                             A ROMANCE

                                  BY

                            STEPHEN CRANE

            Author of "The Red Badge of Courage," "Active
                Service," "Wounds in the Rain," etc.

                                 AND

                             ROBERT BARR

            Author of "Tekla," "In the Midst of Alarms,"
               "Over the Border," "The Victors," etc.

                        With frontispiece by

                            C. D. WILLIAMS

                               NEW YORK

                     FREDERICK A. STOKES COMPANY

                              PUBLISHERS

                          Copyright, 1903,

                    BY FREDERICK A. STOKES COMPANY

       *       *       *       *       *

THE O'RUDDY

CHAPTER I

My chieftain ancestors had lived at Glandore for many centuries and were very well known. Hardly
a ship could pass the Old Head of Kinsale without some boats putting off to exchange the time
of day with her, and our family name was on men's tongues in half the seaports of Europe, I
dare say. My ancestors lived in castles which were like churches stuck on end, and they drank
the best of everything amid the joyous cries of a devoted peasantry. But the good time passed
away soon enough, and when I had reached the age of eighteen we had nobody on the land but
a few fisher-folk and small farmers, people who were almost law-abiding, and my father came
to die more from disappointment than from any other cause. Before the end he sent for me to
come to his bedside.

"Tom," he said, "I brought you into existence, and God help you safe out of it; for you are
not the kind of man ever to turn your hand to work, and there is only enough money to last
a gentleman five more years.

"The 'Martha Bixby,' she was, out of Bristol for the West Indies, and if it hadn't been for
her we would never have got along this far with plenty to eat and drink. However, I leave you,
besides the money, the two swords,--the grand one that King Louis, God bless him, gave me,
and the plain one that will really be of use to you if you get into a disturbance. Then here
is the most important matter of all. Here are some papers which young Lord Strepp gave me to
hold for him when we were comrades in France. I don't know what they are, having had very little
time for reading during my life, but do you return them to him. He is now the great Earl of
Westport, and he lives in London in a grand house, I hear. In the last campaign in France I
had to lend him a pair of breeches or he would have gone bare. These papers are important to
him, and he may reward you, but do not you depend on it, for you may get the back of his hand.
I have not seen him for years. I am glad I had you taught to read. They read considerably in
England, I hear. There is one more cask of the best brandy remaining, and I recommend you to
leave for England as soon as it is finished. And now, one more thing, my lad, never be civil
to a king's officer. Wherever you see a red coat, depend there is a rogue between the front
and the back of it. I have said everything. Push the bottle near me."

Three weeks after my father's burial I resolved to set out, with no more words, to deliver
the papers to the Earl of Westport. I was resolved to be prompt in obeying my father's command,
for I was extremely anxious to see the world, and my feet would hardly wait for me. I put my
estate into the hands of old Mickey Clancy, and told him not to trouble the tenants too much
over the rent, or they probably would split his skull for him. And I bid Father Donovan look
out for old Mickey Clancy, that he stole from me only what was reasonable.

I went to the Cove of Cork and took ship there for Bristol, and arrived safely after a passage
amid great storms which blew us so near Glandore that I feared the enterprise of my own peasantry.
Bristol, I confess, frightened me greatly. I had not imagined such a huge and teeming place.
All the ships in the world seemed to lie there, and the quays were thick with sailor-men. The
streets rang with noise. I suddenly found that I was a young gentleman from the country.

I followed my luggage to the best inn, and it was very splendid, fit to be a bishop's palace.
It was filled with handsomely dressed people who all seemed to be yelling, "Landlord! landlord!"
And there was a little fat man in a white apron who flew about as if he were being stung by
bees, and he was crying, "Coming, sir! Yes, madam! At once, your ludship!" They heeded me no
more than if I had been an empty glass. I stood on one leg, waiting until the little fat man
should either wear himself out or attend all the people. But it was to no purpose. He did not
wear out, nor did his business finish, so finally I was obliged to plant myself in his way,
but my speech was decent enough as I asked him for a chamber. Would you believe it, he stopped
abruptly and stared at me with sudden suspicion. My speech had been so civil that he had thought
perhaps I was a rogue. I only give you this incident to show that if later I came to bellow
like a bull with the best of them, it was only through the necessity of proving to strangers
that I was a gentleman. I soon learned to enter an inn as a drunken soldier goes through the
breach into a surrendering city.

Having made myself as presentable as possible, I came down from my chamber to seek some supper.
The supper-room was ablaze with light and well filled with persons of quality, to judge from
the noise that they were making. My seat was next to a garrulous man in plum-colour, who seemed
to know the affairs of the entire world. As I dropped into my chair he was saying--

"--the heir to the title, of course. Young Lord Strepp. That is he--the slim youth with light
hair. Oh, of course, all in shipping. The Earl must own twenty sail that trade from Bristol.
He is posting down from London, by the way, to-night."

You can well imagine how these words excited me. I half arose from my chair with the idea of
going at once to the young man who had been indicated as Lord Strepp, and informing him of
my errand, but I had a sudden feeling of timidity, a feeling that it was necessary to be proper
with these people of high degree. I kept my seat, resolving to accost him directly after supper.
I studied him with interest. He was a young man of about twenty years, with fair unpowdered
hair and a face ruddy from a life in the open air. He looked generous and kindly, but just
at the moment he was damning a waiter in language that would have set fire to a stone bridge.
Opposite him was a clear-eyed soldierly man of about forty, whom I had heard called "Colonel,"
and at the Colonel's right was a proud, dark-skinned man who kept looking in all directions
to make sure that people regarded him, seated thus with a lord.

They had drunk eight bottles of port, and in those days eight bottles could just put three
gentlemen in pleasant humour. As the ninth bottle came on the table the Colonel cried--

"Come, Strepp, tell us that story of how your father lost his papers. Gad, that's a good story."

"No, no," said the young lord. "It isn't a good story, and besides my father never tells it
at all. I misdoubt it's truth."

The Colonel pounded the table. "'Tis true. 'Tis too good a story to be false. You know the
story, Forister?" said he, turning to the dark-skinned man. The latter shook his head.

"Well, when the Earl was a young man serving with the French he rather recklessly carried with
him some valuable papers relating to some estates in the North, and once the noble Earl--or
Lord Strepp as he was then--found it necessary, after fording a stream, to hang his breeches
on a bush to dry, and then a certain blackguard of a wild Irishman in the corps came along
and stole--"

But I had arisen and called loudly but with dignity up the long table, "That, sir, is a lie."
The room came still with a bang, if I may be allowed that expression. Every one gaped at me,
and the Colonel's face slowly went the colour of a tiled roof.

"My father never stole his lordship's breeches, for the good reason that at the time his lordship
had no breeches. 'Twas the other way. My father--"

Here the two long rows of faces lining the room crackled for a moment, and then every man burst
into a thunderous laugh. But I had flung to the winds my timidity of a new country, and I was
not to be put down by these clowns.

"'Tis a lie against an honourable man and my father," I shouted. "And if my father hadn't provided
his lordship with breeches, he would have gone bare, and there's the truth. And," said I, staring
at the Colonel, "I give the lie again. We are never obliged to give it twice in my country."

The Colonel had been grinning a little, no doubt thinking, along with everybody else in the
room, that I was drunk or crazy; but this last twist took the smile off his face clean enough,
and he came to his feet with a bound. I awaited him. But young Lord Strepp and Forister grabbed
him and began to argue. At the same time there came down upon me such a deluge of waiters and
pot-boys, and, may be, hostlers, that I couldn't have done anything if I had been an elephant.
They were frightened out of their wits and painfully respectful, but all the same and all the
time they were bundling me toward the door. "Sir! Sir! Sir! I beg you, sir! Think of the 'ouse,
sir! Sir! Sir! Sir!" And I found myself out in the hall.

Here I addressed them calmly. "Loose me and takes yourselves off quickly, lest I grow angry
and break some dozen of these wooden heads." They took me at my word and vanished like ghosts.
Then the landlord came bleating, but I merely told him that I wanted to go to my chamber, and
if anybody inquired for me I wished him conducted up at once.

In my chamber I had not long to wait. Presently there were steps in the corridor and a knock
at my door. At my bidding the door opened and Lord Strepp entered. I arose and we bowed. He
was embarrassed and rather dubious.

"Aw," he began, "I come, sir, from Colonel Royale, who begs to be informed who he has had the
honour of offending, sir?"

"'Tis not a question for your father's son, my lord," I answered bluntly at last.

"You are, then, the son of The O'Ruddy?"

"No," said I. "I am The O'Ruddy. My father died a month gone and more."

"Oh!" said he. And I now saw why he was embarrassed. He had feared from the beginning that
I was altogether too much in the right. "Oh!" said he again. I made up my mind that he was
a good lad. "That is dif--" he began awkwardly. "I mean, Mr. O'Ruddy--oh, damn it all, you
know what I mean, Mr. O'Ruddy!"

I bowed. "Perfectly, my lord!" I did not understand him, of course.

"I shall have the honour to inform Colonel Royale that Mr. O'Ruddy is entitled to every consideration,"
he said more collectedly. "If Mr. O'Ruddy will have the goodness to await me here?"

"Yes, my lord." He was going in order to tell the Colonel that I was a gentleman. And of course
he returned quickly with the news. But he did not look as if the message was one which he could
deliver with a glib tongue. "Sir," he began, and then halted. I could but courteously wait.
"Sir, Colonel Royale bids me say that he is shocked to find that he has carelessly and publicly
inflicted an insult upon an unknown gentleman through the memory of the gentleman's dead father.
Colonel Royale bids me to say, sir, that he is overwhelmed with regret, and that far from taking
an initial step himself it is his duty to express to you his feeling that his movements should
coincide with any arrangements you may choose to make."

I was obliged to be silent for a considerable period in order to gather head and tail of this
marvellous sentence. At last I caught it. "At daybreak I shall walk abroad," I replied, "and
I have no doubt that Colonel Royale will be good enough to accompany me. I know nothing of
Bristol. Any cleared space will serve."

My Lord Strepp bowed until he almost knocked his forehead on the floor. "You are most amiable,
Mr. O'Ruddy. You of course will give me the name of some friend to whom I can refer minor matters?"

I found that I could lie in England as readily as ever I did in Ireland. "My friend will be
on the ground with me, my lord; and as he also is a very amiable man it will not take two minutes
to make everything clear and fair." Me, with not a friend in the world but Father O'Donovan
and Mickey Clancy at Glandore!

Lord Strepp bowed again, the same as before. "Until the morning then, Mr. O'Ruddy," he said,
and left me.

I sat me down on my bed to think. In truth I was much puzzled and amazed. These gentlemen were
actually reasonable and were behaving like men of heart. Neither my books nor my father's stories--great
lies, many of them, God rest him!--had taught me that the duelling gentry could think at all,
and I was quite certain that they never tried. "You were looking at me, sir?" "Was I, 'faith?
Well, if I care to look at you I shall look at you." And then away they would go at it, prodding
at each other's bellies until somebody's flesh swallowed a foot of steel. "Sir, I do not like
the colour of your coat!" Clash! "Sir, red hair always offends me." Cling! "Sir, your fondness
for rabbit-pie is not polite." Clang!

However, the minds of young Lord Strepp and Colonel Royale seemed to be capable of a process
which may be termed human reflection. It was plain that the Colonel did not like the situation
at all, and perhaps considered himself the victim of a peculiarly exasperating combination
of circumstances. That an Irishman should turn up in Bristol and give him the lie over a French
pair of breeches must have seemed astonishing to him, notably when he learned that the Irishman
was quite correct, having in fact a clear title to speak authoritatively upon the matter of
the breeches. And when Lord Strepp learned that I was The O'Ruddy he saw clearly that the Colonel
was in the wrong, and that I had a perfect right to resent the insult to my father's memory.
And so the Colonel probably said: "Look you, Strepp. I have no desire to kill this young gentleman,
because I insulted his father's name. It is out of all decency. And do you go to him this second
time and see what may be done in the matter of avoidance. But, mark you, if he expresses any
wishes, you of course offer immediate accommodation. I will not wrong him twice." And so up
came my Lord Strepp and hemmed and hawed in that way which puzzled me. A pair of thoughtful,
honourable fellows, these, and I admired them greatly.

There was now no reason why I should keep my chamber, since if I now met even the Colonel himself
there would be no brawling; only bows. I was not, indeed, fond of these latter,--replying to
Lord Strepp had almost broken my back; but, any how, more bows were better than more loud words
and another downpour of waiters and pot-boys.

But I had reckoned without the dark-skinned man, Forister. When I arrived in the lower corridor
and was passing through it on my way to take the air, I found a large group of excited people
talking of the quarrel and the duel that was to be fought at daybreak. I thought it was a great
hubbub over a very small thing, but it seems that the mainspring of the excitement was the
tongue of this black Forister. "Why, the Irish run naked through their native forests," he
was crying. "Their sole weapon is the great knotted club, with which, however, they do not
hesitate, when in great numbers, to attack lions and tigers. But how can this barbarian face
the sword of an officer of His Majesty's army?"

Some in the group espied my approach, and there was a nudging of elbows. There was a general
display of agitation, and I marvelled at the way in which many made it to appear that they
had not formed part of the group at all. Only Forister was cool and insolent. He stared full
at me and grinned, showing very white teeth. "Swords are very different from clubs, great knotted
clubs," he said with admirable deliberation.

"Even so," rejoined I gravely. "Swords are for gentlemen, while clubs are to clout the heads
of rogues--thus." I boxed his ear with my open hand, so that he fell against the wall. "I will
now picture also the use of boots by kicking you into the inn yard which is adjacent." So saying
I hurled him to the great front door which stood open, and then, taking a sort of hop and skip,
I kicked for glory and the Saints.

I do not know that I ever kicked a man with more success. He shot out as if he had been heaved
by a catapult. There was a dreadful uproar behind me, and I expected every moment to be stormed
by the waiter-and-pot-boy regiment. However I could hear some of the gentlemen bystanding cry:

"Well done! Well kicked! A record! A miracle!"

But my first hours on English soil contained still other festivities. Bright light streamed
out from the great door, and I could plainly note what I shall call the arc or arcs described
by Forister. He struck the railing once, but spun off it, and to my great astonishment went
headlong and slap-crash into some sort of an upper servant who had been approaching the door
with both arms loaded with cloaks, cushions, and rugs.

I suppose the poor man thought that black doom had fallen upon him from the sky. He gave a
great howl as he, Forister, the cloaks, cushions, and rugs spread out grandly in one sublime
confusion.

Some ladies screamed, and a bold commanding voice said: "In the devil's name what have we here?"
Behind the unhappy servant had been coming two ladies and a very tall gentleman in a black
cloak that reached to his heels. "What have we here?" again cried this tall man, who looked
like an old eagle. He stepped up to me haughtily. I knew that I was face to face with the Earl
of Westport.

But was I a man for ever in the wrong that I should always be giving down and walking away
with my tail between my legs? Not I; I stood bravely to the Earl:

"If your lordship pleases, 'tis The O'Ruddy kicking a blackguard into the yard," I made answer
coolly.

I could see that he had been about to shout for the landlord and more waiters and pot-boys,
but at my naming myself he gave a quick stare.

"The O'Ruddy?" he repeated. "Rubbish!"

He was startled, bewildered; but I could not tell if he were glad or grieved.

"'Tis all the name I own," I said placidly. "My father left it me clear, it being something
that he could not mortgage. 'Twas on his death-bed he told me of lending you the breeches,
and that is why I kicked the man into the yard; and if your lordship had arrived sooner I could
have avoided this duel at daybreak, and, any how, I wonder at his breeches fitting you. He
was a small man."

Suddenly the Earl raised his hand. "Enough," he said sternly. "You are your father's son. Come
to my chamber in the morning, O'Ruddy."

There had been little chance to see what was inside the cloaks of the ladies, but at the words
of the Earl there peeped from one hood a pair of bright liquid eyes--God save us all! In a
flash I was no longer a free man; I was a dazed slave; the Saints be good to us!

The contents of the other hood could not have been so interesting, for from it came the raucous
voice of a bargeman with a cold:

"Why did he kick him? Whom did he kick? Had he cheated at play? Where has he gone?"

