My escape was owing to a concurrence of fortunate circumstances, which appear almost providential.
I happened to catch hold of various articles of support, and to exchange each article for another
just at the right time. Nothing but the boom could have carried me down the Cascades without
injury; and nothing but the barge could have saved me below them. I was also fortunate in having
the whole day. Had the accident happened one hour later, I should have arrived opposite the
village of La Chine after dark, and, of course, would have been destroyed in the rapids below,
to which I was rapidly advancing. The trunk which furnished me with provisions and a resting-place
above the water, I have every reason to think, was necessary to save my life; without it I
must have passed the whole time in the water, and been exhausted with cold and hunger. When
the people on shore saw our boat take the wrong channel, they predicted our destruction: the
floating luggage, by supporting us for a time, enabled them to make an exertion to save us;
but as it was not supposed possible to survive the passage of the Cascades, no further exertions
were thought of, nor indeed could they well have been made.

It was at this very place that General Ambert's brigade of 300 men, coming to attack Canada,
was lost; the French at Montreal received the first intelligence of the invasion, by the dead
bodies floating past the town. The pilot who conducted the first batteaux, committing the same
error that we did, ran for the wrong channel, and the other batteaux following close, all were
involved in the same destruction. The whole party with which I was escaped; four left the barge
at the Cedar village, above the rapids, and went to Montreal by land; two more were saved by
the canoe; the barge's crew, all accustomed to labour, were lost. Of the eight men who passed
down the Cascades, none but myself escaped, or were seen again; nor indeed was it possible
for any one, without my extraordinary luck, and the aid of the barge, to which they must have
been very close, to have escaped; the other men must have been drowned immediately on entering
the Cascades. The trunks, &c., to which they adhered, and the heavy great-coats which they
had on, very probably helped to overwhelm them; but they must have gone at all events; swimming
in such a current of broken stormy waves was impossible. Still I think my knowing how to swim
kept me more collected, and rendered me more willing to part with one article of support to
gain a better. Those who could not swim would naturally cling to whatever hold they first got,
and, of course, many had very bad ones. The Captain passed me above the Cascades, on a sack
of woollen clothes, which were doubtless soon saturated and sunk.

The trunk which I picked up belonged to a young man from Upper Canada, who was one of those
drowned; it contained clothes, and about £70 in gold, which was restored to his friends. My
own trunk contained, besides clothes, about £200 in gold and bank notes. On my arrival at La
Chine, I offered a reward of 100 dollars, which induced a Canadian to go in search of it. He
found it, some days after, on the shore of an island on which it had been driven, and brought
it to La Chine, where I happened to be at the time. I paid him his reward, and understood that
above one-third of it was to be immediately applied to the purchase of a certain number of
masses which he had vowed, in the event of success, previous to his setting out on the search.

       *       *       *       *       *

~Adventure in the Desert, and Murder of a Sheikh.~

I was awakened for a few minutes, as early as three o'clock on the following morning, by the
sound of many voices in loud and earnest conversation, amongst which I recognised that of Sheikh
Suleiman; but as noisy conversations at such early hours are by no means uncommon with these
restless spirits of the wilderness, I gave no heed to it, and composed myself for sleep again,
intending to rise by about half after four, in order to get a dip in the Red Sea, before resuming
the march; and this intention I fulfilled; but just while throwing on the few clothes I had
taken with me, I heard suddenly a loud strife of many tongues bursting forth, not in our encampment,
but in a small copse or grove of palm trees, about two hundred yards distant. At once the thought
rushed upon my mind, that the Mezzeni had overtaken us, and were meditating an attack, now
that we were so near the place of their main encampment. This was directly confirmed by the
sound of a gun-shot in the palm-grove, which was soon followed up by a second. I ran up towards
the encampment as rapidly as possible; and just as I reached it, another shot rang awfully
upon my ear. I found our party in a state of the greatest consternation, and gathered closely
together, gazing wildly towards the grove. The first thing I learnt, was the harrowing fact,
that poor Suleiman had just been murdered by the Mezzeni! It was an astounding announcement.
To what would this desperate blow lead--here, in the Desert? The prospect of further bloodshed
was terrible. It would have been insupportable, but for the influence of that inward calmness
which is the privilege of the children of God. We were braced up for the worst, and stood gazing
upon the scene, in full expectation that out of a deep and deadly spirit of revenge, we should
be immediately overpowered by the enemy, and held entirely at their mercy--as any shew of defence
against so many as had now come down upon us, would have been utterly futile, and might have
led to the destruction of us all. How wild and desolate this awful theatre of death appeared,
while, with the sound of gun-shots still vibrating in our ears, we thought of Suleiman writhing
in his death-throes, and anxiously watched the movements of the murderers. We were motionless--almost
breathless. Each man among us gazed silently upon his fellow. Our suspense was not of great
duration, but long enough to get the heart secretly lifted up in communion with a God of mercy.
And there was sweet peacefulness in that brief exercise.... My worst fears were groundless.
The hearts of all men are in God's hands. Our helplessness must have been a powerful matter
of temptation to the blood-stained men, over whom the departed soul of Suleiman was hovering.
But God restrained them....

Having slaughtered their victim, the Mezzeni (of whom above forty were counted), quietly marched
back towards Nuweibia, without exchanging even a word with us; leaving behind them the corpse
of poor Suleiman--a sad memorial of their malignant vengeance; while several others of their
tribe, who had been lying in ambush beyond the scene of terror, came forth from their hiding-places,
and joined their retreating comrades.

My heart almost sickens at the recollection of this dreadful transaction, while referring to
the notes made on the spot, and compiling from them the particulars of this sad page.

As soon as the enemy had fairly departed, I took Hassenein with me, and advanced carefully
towards the copse of palm trees, where I found the mangled body of poor Suleiman quite dead,
but with the agony of the death-pang still visible on his sunburnt and swarthy features. It
was a terrible sight, thus to behold the leader and confidential companion of our wild route,
lying as the clods of the valley, and saturated with his own life-blood. And how, in a Christian's
heart, was the sense of the sad reality heightened, by knowing that the poor sufferer was a
follower of the false prophet--a Mahommedan--ignorant of Him who was "delivered for our offences,
and raised again for our justification." I have seen death in many forms; but I never beheld
it with so dread an aspect as it here assumed.

I was more than half inclined to withhold the minute particulars of the dark tragedy, when
arriving at this part of my narrative; but they now fasten themselves upon my mind, and I feel
constrained to leave them on record.

Suleiman had received three balls through his body, and four sabre-gashes on his head, which
was also nearly severed from the trunk; and his right arm, which had been evidently raised
in an attempt at warding off a blow, was all but divided near the wrist. We returned to the
encampment, where our Arabs were sitting together, still terrified. At length a few of them
who volunteered their aid, went and washed the body--wrapped it in an unfolded turban, and
prepared it for immediate interment. They hastily formed a resting-place, about a mile upwards,
towards the hills which skirted the plain in which we were encamped, by raising four walls
of large loose stones. Having made all ready, they brought up the remains of their leader,
laid across the back of his camel, and, with deep emotion, deposited them in their final abode,
arching it over with large masses of stone, and quitting it with what appeared to me like deep
expressions of vengeance against the tribe, on which lay the guilt of his murder.

I turned away from the tomb with a heavy heart.... Was my way to the Holy City of my God to
be tracked with blood?

