All paradise was imbued with the spirit of love. Oh, that it could have remained so forever!
There was not a painted cheek in Eden, nor a bald head, nor a false tooth, nor a bachelor.
There was not a flounce, nor a frill, nor a silken gown, nor a flashy waist with aurora borealis
sleeves. There was not a curl paper, nor even a threat of crinoline. Raiment was an after thought,
the mask of a tainted soul, born of original sin. Beauty was unmarred by gaudy rags; Eve was
dressed in sunshine, Adam was clad in climate.

Every rich blessing within the gift of the Almighty Father was poured out from the cornucopia
of heaven, into the lap of paradise. But it was a paradise of fools, because they stained it
with disobedience and polluted it with sin. It was the paradise of fools because, in the exercise
of their own God-given free agency, they tasted the forbidden fruit and fell from their glorious
estate. Oh, what a fall was there! It was the fall of innocence and purity; it was the fall
of happiness into the abyss of woe; it was the fall of life into the arms of death. It was
like the fall of the wounded albatross, from the regions of light, into the sea; it was like
the fall of a star from heaven to hell. When the jasper gate forever closed behind the guilty
pair, and the flaming sword of the Lord mounted guard over the barred portal, the whole life-current
of the human race was shifted into another channel; shifted from the roses to the thorns; shifted
from joy to sorrow, and it bore upon its dark and turbulent bosom, the wrecked hopes of all
the ages.

I believe they lost intellectual powers which fallen man has never regained. Operating by the
consent of natural laws, sinless man would have wrought endless miracles. The mind, winged
like a seraph, and armed like a thunderbolt, would have breached the very citadel of knowledge
and robbed it of its treasures. I think they lost a plane of being only a little lower than
the angels. I believe they lost youth, beauty, and physical immortality. I believe they lost
the virtues of heart and soul, and many of the magnificent powers of mind, which made them
the images of God, and which would have even brushed aside the now impenetrable veil which
hides from mortal eyes the face of Infinite Love; that Love which gave the ever-blessed light,
and filled the earth with music of bird, and breeze, and sea; that Love whose melodies we sometimes
faintly catch, like spirit voices, from the souls of orators and poets; that Love which inlaid
the arching firmament of heaven with jewels sparkling with eternal fires. But thank God, their
fall was not like the remediless fall of Lucifer and his angels, into eternal darkness. Thank
God, in this "night of death" hope does see a star! It is the star of Bethlehem. Thank God,
"listening Love" does "hear the rustle of a wing!" It is the wing of the resurrection angel.

The memories and images of paradise lost have been impressed on every human heart, and every
individual of the race has his own ideal of that paradise, from the cradle to the grave. But
that ideal in so far as its realization in this world is concerned, is like the rainbow, an
elusive phantom, ever in sight, never in reach, resting ever on the horizon of hope.

THE PARADISE OF CHILDHOOD.

I saw a blue-eyed child, with sunny curls, toddling on the lawn before the door of a happy
home. He toddled under the trees, prattling to the birds and playing with the ripening apples
that fell upon the ground. He toddled among the roses and plucked their leaves as he would
have plucked an angel's wing, strewing their glory upon the green grass at his feet. He chased
the butterflies from flower to flower, and shouted with glee as they eluded his grasp and sailed
away on the summer air. Here I thought his childish fancy had built a paradise and peopled
it with dainty seraphim and made himself its Adam. He saw the sunshine of Eden glint on every
leaf and beam in every petal. The flitting honey-bee, the wheeling June-bug, the fluttering
breeze, the silvery pulse-beat of the dashing brook sounded in his ear notes of its swelling
music. The iris-winged humming-bird, darting like a sunbeam, to kiss the pouting lips of the
upturned flowers was, to him, the impersonation of its beauty. And I said: Truly, this is the
nearest approach in this world, to the paradise of long ago. Then I saw him skulking like a
cupid, in the shrubbery, his skirts bedraggled and soiled, his face downcast with guilt. He
had stirred up the Mediterranean Sea in the slop bucket, and waded the Atlantic Ocean in a
mud puddle. He had capsized the goslings, and shipwrecked the young ducks, and drowned the
kitten which he imagined a whale, and I said: There is the original Adam coming to the surface.

"Lo'd bless my soul! Jist look at dat chile!" shouted his dusky old nurse, as she lifted him,
dripping, from the reeking pond. "What's you bin doin' in dat mud puddle? Look at dat face,
an' dem hands an' close, all kivvered wid mud an' mulberry juice! You bettah not let yo' mammy
see you while you's in dat fix. You's gwine to ketch it sho'. You's jist zackly like yo' fader--allers
git'n into some scrape or nuddah, allers breakin' into some kind uv devilment--gwine to break
into congrus some uv dese days sho'. Come along wid me dis instinct to de baff tub. I's a-gwine
to dispurgate dem close an' 'lucidate some uv dat dirt off'n dat face uv yone, you triflin'
rascal you!" And so saying, she carried him away, kicking and screaming like a young savage
in open rebellion, and I said: There is some more of the original Adam. Then I saw him come
forth again, washed and combed, and dressed in spotless white, like a young butterfly fresh
from its chrysalis. And when he got a chance, I saw him slip on his tip-toes, into the pantry;

  I heard the clink of glassware,
  As if a mouse were playing there,

among the jam pots and preserves. There two little dimpled hands made trip after trip to a
rose-colored mouth, bearing burdens of mingling sweets that dripped from cheek, and chin, and
waist, and skirt, and shoes, subduing the snowy white with the amber of the peach, and the
purple of the raspberry, as he ate the forbidden fruit. Then I watched him glide into the drawing
room. There was a crash and a thud in there, which quickly brought his frightened mother to
the scene, only to find the young rascal standing there catching his breath, while streams
of cold ink trickled down his drenched bosom. And as he wiped his inky face, which grew blacker
with every wipe, the remainder of the ink was pouring from the bottle down on the carpet, and
making a map of darkest Africa. Then the rear of a small skirt went up over a curly head and
the avenging slipper, in lightning strokes, kept time to the music in the air. And I said:
There is "Paradise Lost." The sympathizing, half angry old nurse bore her weeping, sobbing
charge to the nursery and there bound up his broken heart and soothed him to sleep with her
old time lullaby:

  "Oh, don't you cry little baby, Oh, don't you cry no mo',
   For it hurts ol' mammy's feelin's fo' to heah you weepin' so.
   Why don't da keep temptation frum de little han's an' feet?
   What makes 'em 'buse de baby kaze de jam an' zarves am sweet?

   Oh, de sorrow, tribulations, dat de joys of mortals break,
   Oh, it's heb'n when we slumber, it's trouble when we wake.

   Oh, go to sleep my darlin', now close dem little eyes,
   An' dream uv de shinin' angels, an' de blessed paradise;
   Oh, dream uv de blood-red roses, an' de birds on snowy wing;
   Oh, dream uv de fallin' watahs an' de never endin' spring.

   Oh, de roses, Oh, de rainbows, Oh, de music's gentle swell,
   In de dreamland uv little childun, whar de blessed sperrits dwell."

"Dar now, dar now, he's gone. Bless its little heart, da treats it like a dog." And then she
tucked him away in the paradise of his childish slumber.

The day will come when the South will build a monument to the good old black mammy of the past
for the lullabies she has sung.

I sometimes wish that childhood might last forever. That sweet fairy land on the frontier of
life, whose skies are first lighted with the sunrise of the soul, and in whose bright-tinted
jungles the lions, and leopards, and tigers of passion still peacefully sleep. The world is
disarmed by its innocence, the drawn bow is relaxed, and the arrow is returned to its quiver;
the Ægis of Heaven is above it, the outstretched wings of mercy, pity, and measureless love!

THE PARADISE OF THE BAREFOOTED BOY.

I would rather be a barefooted boy with cheeks of tan and heart of joy than to be a millionaire
and president of a National bank. The financial panic that falls like a thunderbolt, wrecks
the bank, crushes the banker, and swamps thousands in an hour. But the bank which holds the
treasures of the barefooted boy never breaks. With his satchel and his books he hies away to
school in the morning, but his truant feet carry him the other way, to the mill pond "a-fishin'."
And there he sits the livelong day under the shade of the tree, with sapling pole and pin hook,
and fishes, and fishes, and fishes, and waits for a nibble of the drowsy sucker that sleeps
on his oozy bed, oblivious of the baitless hook from which he has long since stolen the worm.
There he sits, and fishes, and fishes, and fishes, and like Micawber, waits for something to
"turn-up." But nothing turns up until the shadows of evening fall and warn the truant home,
where he is welcomed with a dogwood sprout. Then "sump'n" does turn up. He obeys the call of
the Sunday school bell, and goes with solemn face, but e'er the "sweet bye and bye" has died
away on the summer air, he is in the wood shed playing Sullivan and Corbett with some plucky
comrade, with the inevitable casualties of one closed eye, one crippled nose, one pair of torn
breeches and one bloody toe. He takes a back seat at church, and in the midst of the sermon
steals away and hides in the barn to smoke cigarettes and read the story of "One-eyed Pete,
the Hero of the wild and woolly West." There is eternal war between the barefooted boy and
the whole civilized world. He shoots the cook with a blow-gun; he cuts the strings of the hammock
and lets his dozing grandmother fall to the ground; he loads his grandfather's pipe with powder;
he instigates a fight between the cat and dog during family prayers, and explodes with laughter
when pussy seeks refuge on the old man's back. He hides in the alley and turns the hose on
uncle Ephraim's standing collar as he passes on his way to church, he cracks chestnut burrs
with his naked heel; he robs birds' nests, and murders bullfrogs, and plays "knucks" and "base-ball."
He puts asafetida in the soup, and conceals lizzards in his father's hat. He overwhelms the
family circle with his magnificent literary attainments when he reads from the Bible in what
he calls the "pasalms of David"--"praise ye the Lord with the pizeltry and the harp."

His father took him to town one day and said to him: "Now John, I want you to stay here on
the corner with the wagon and watch these potatoes while I go round the square and see if I
can sell them. Don't open your mouth sir, while I am gone; I'm afraid people will think you're
a fool." While the old man was gone the merchant came out and said to John: "What are those
potatoes worth, my son?" John looked at him and grinned. "What are those potatoes worth, I
say?" asked the merchant. John still looked at him and grinned. The merchant turned on his
heel and said: "You're a fool," and went back into his store. When the old man returned John
shouted: "Pap, they found it out and I never said a word."

His life is an endless chain of pranks and pleasures. Look how the brawling brook pours down
the steep declivities of the mountain gorge! Here it breaks into pearls and silvery foam, there
it dashes in rapids, among brown bowlders, and yonder it tumbles from the gray crest of a precipice.
Thus, forever laughing, singing, rollicking, romping, till it is checked in its mad rush and
spreads into a still, smooth mirror, reflecting the inverted images of rock, and fern, and
flower, and tree, and sky. It is the symbol of the life of a barefooted boy. His quips, and
cranks, his whims, and jollities, and jocund mischief, are but the effervescences of exuberant
young life, the wild music of the mountain stream.

If I were a sculptor, I would chisel from the marble my ideal of the monumental fool. I would
make it the figure of a man, with knitted brow and clinched teeth, beating and bruising his
barefooted boy, in the cruel endeavor to drive him from the paradise of his childish fun and
folly. If your boy will be a boy, let him be a boy still. And remember that he is following
the paths which your feet have trodden, and will soon look back upon its precious memories,
as you now do, with the aching heart of a care-worn man.

(Sung to the air of Down on the Farm.)

  Oh, I love the dear old farm, and my heart grows young and warm,
    When I wander back to spend a single day;
  There to hear the robins sing in the trees around the spring,
    Where I used to watch the happy children play.
  Oh, I hear their voices yet and I never shall forget
    How their faces beamed with childish mirth and glee.
  But my heart grows old again and I leave the spot in pain,
    When I call them and no answer comes to me.

THE PARADISE OF YOUTH.

If childhood is the sunrise of life, youth is the heyday of life's ruddy June. It is the sweet
solstice in life's early summer, which puts forth the fragrant bud and blossom of sin e'er
its bitter fruits ripen and turn to ashes on the lips of age. It is the happy transition period,
when long legs, and loose joints, and verdant awkwardness, first stumble on the vestibule of
manhood. Did you never observe him shaving and scraping his pimpled face till it resembled
a featherless goose, reaping nothing but lather, and dirt, and a little intangible fuzz? That
is the first symptom of love. Did you never observe him wrestling with a pair of boots two
numbers too small, as Jacob wrestled with the angel? That is another symptom of love. His callous
heel slowly and painfully yields to the pressure of his perspiring paroxysms until his feet
are folded like fans and driven home in the pinching leather; and as he sits at church with
them hid under the bench, his uneasy squirms are symptoms of the tortures of the infernal regions,
and the worm that dieth not; but that is only the penalty of loving. When he begins to wander
through the fragrant meadows and talk to himself among the buttercups and clover blossoms,
it is a sure sign that the golden shaft of the winged god has sped from its bended bow. Love's
archer has shot a poisoned arrow which wounds but never kills. The sweet venom has done its
work. The fever of the amorous wound drives the red current bounding through his veins, and
his brain now reels with the delirium of the tender passion. His soul is wrapped in visions
of dreamy black eyes peeping out from under raven curls, and cheeks like gardens of roses.
To him the world is transformed into a blooming Eden, and she is its only Eve. He hears her
voice in the sound of the laughing waters, the fluttering of her heart in the summer evening's
last sigh that shuts the rose; and he sits on the bank of the river all day long and writes
poetry to her. Thus he writes:

  "As I sit by this river's crystal wave,
   Whose flow'ry banks its waters lave,
   Me-thinks I see in its glassy mirror,
   A face which to me, than life is dearer.
   Oh, 'tis the face of my Gwendolin,
   As pure as an angel, free from sin.
   It looks into mine with one sweet eye,
   While the other is turned to the starry sky.
   Could I the ocean's bulk contain,
   Could I but drink the watery main,
   I'd scarce be half as full of the sea,
   As my heart is full of love for thee!"

Thus he lives and loves, and writes poetry by day, and tosses on his bed at night, like the
restless sea, and dreams, and dreams, and dreams, until, in the ecstacy of his dream, he grabs
a pillow.

One bright summer day, a rural youth took his sweetheart to a Baptist baptizing; and, in addition
to his verdancy and his awkwardness, he stuttered most distressingly. The singing began on
the bank of the stream; and he left his sweetheart in the buggy, in the shade of a tree near
by, and wandered alone in the crowd. Standing unconsciously among those who were to be baptized,
the old parson mistook him for one of the converts, and seized him by the arm and marched him
into the water. He began to protest: "ho-ho-hold on p-p-p-parson, y-y-y-you're ma-ma-makin'
a mi-mi-mistake!!!" "Don't be alarmed my son, come right in," said the parson. And he led him
to the middle of the stream. The poor fellow made one final desperate effort to explain--"p-p-p-p-parson,
l-l-l-l-let me explain!" But the parson coldly said: "Close your mouth and eyes, my son!" And
he soused him under the water. After he was thoroughly baptized the old parson led him to the
bank, the muddy water trickling down his face. He was "diked" in his new seersucker suit, and
when the sun struck it, it began to draw up. The legs of his pants drew up to his knees; his
sleeves drew up to his elbows; his little sack coat yanked up under his arms. And as he stood
there trembling and shivering, a good old sister approached him, and taking him by the hand
said: "God bless you, my son, how do you feel?" Looking, in his agony, at his blushing sweetheart
behind her fan, he replied in his anguish: "I fe-fe-fe-feel l-l-l-l-like a d-d-d-d-durned f-f-f-f-fool!"

If I were called upon to drink a toast to life's happiest period, I would hold up the sparkling
wine, and say: "Here is to youth, that sweet, Seidlitz powder period, when two souls with scarcely
a single thought, meet and blend in one; when a voice, half gosling, half calliope, rasps the
first sickly confession of puppy love into the ear of a blue-sashed maiden at the picnic in
the grove!" But when she returns his little greasy photograph, accompanied by a little perfumed
note, expressing the hope that he will think of her only as a sister, his paradise is wrecked,
and his puppy love is swept into the limbo of things that were, the school boy's tale, the
wonder of an hour.

But wait till the shadows have a little longer grown. Wait till the young lawyer comes home
from college, spouting Blackstone, and Kent, and Ram on facts. Wait till the young doctor returns
from the university, with his whiskers and his diploma, to tread the paths of glory, "that
lead but to the grave." Wait till society gives welcome in the brilliant ball, and the swallow-tail
coat, and the patent leather pumps whirl with the decollette and white slippers till the stars
are drowning in the light of morning. Wait till the graduate staggers from the giddy hall,
in full evening dress, singing as he staggers:

  "After the ball is over, after the break of morn,
   After the dancer's leavin', after the stars are gone;
   Many a heart is aching, if we could read them all--
   Many the hopes that are vanished, after the ball."

It is then that "somebody's darling" has reached the full tide of his glory as a fool.

THE PARADISE OF HOME.

How rich would be the feast of happiness in this beautiful world of ours, could folly end with
youth. But youth is only the first act in the "Comedy of Errors." It is the pearly gate that
opens to the real paradise of fools.

Whether it be the child at its mother's knee or the man of mature years, whether it be the
banker or the beggar, the prince in his palace or the peasant in his hut, there is in every
heart the dream of a happier lot in life.

I heard the sound of revelry at the gilded club, where a hundred hearts beat happily. There
were flushed cheeks and thick tongues and jests and anecdotes around the banquet spread. There
were songs and poems and speeches.

But as for me, gentlemen, give me the pleasures an' the palaces--give me liberty, or give me death.

But as for me, gentlemen, I would rather hear the barkin' of a gatlin' gun than to hear the
watch dog's honest bark this minute. I would rather look into the mouth of a cannon than to
look into the eyes that are now waitin' to mark my comin' at this delightful hour of three
o'clock in the morning."

Then he launched out on the ocean of thought like a magnificent ship going to sea. And when
the night was far spent, and the orgies were over, and the lights were blown out at the club,
I saw him enter his own sweet home in his glory--entered it, like a thief, with his boots in
his hands,--entered it singing softly to himself:

  "I'm called little gutter pup, sweet little gutter pup,
     Though I could never tell why--(hic),
   Yet still I'm called gutter pup, sweet little gutter pup,
     Poor little gutter pup--I--(hic)."

He was unconscious of the presence of the white figure that stood at the head of the stairs
holding up a lamp, like liberty enlightening the world, and as a tremulous voice called him
to the judgment bar, the door closed behind him on the paradise of a fool, and he sneaked up
the steps, muttering to himself, "What shadows we are--(hic)--what shadows we pursue." Then
I saw him again in the morning, reaping temptation's bitter reward in the agonies of his drunk-sick;
and like Mark Twain's boat in a storm,

  "He heaved and sot, and sot and heaved,
     And high his rudder flung,
   And every time he heaved and sot,
     A mighty leak he sprung."

If I were a woman with a husband like "that," I would fill him so full of Keely's chloride
of gold that he would jingle as he walks and tinkle as he talks and have a fit at every mention
of the silver bill.

The biggest fool that walks on God's footstool is the man who destroys the joy and peace of
his own sweet home; for, if paradise is ever regained in this world, it must be in the home.
If its dead flowers ever bloom again, they must bloom in the happy hearts of home. If its sunshine
ever breaks through the clouds, it must break forth in the smiling faces of home. If heaven
ever descends to earth and angels tread its soil, it must be in the sacred precincts of home.
That which heaven most approves is the pure and virtuous home. For around it linger all the
sweetest memories and dearest associations of mankind; upon it hang the hopes and happiness
of the nations of the earth, and above it shines the ever blessed star that lights the way
back to the paradise that was lost.

BACHELOR AND WIDOWER.

I saw a poor old bachelor live all the days of his life in sight of paradise, too cowardly
to put his arm around it and press it to his bosom. He shaved and primped and resolved to marry
every day in the year for forty years. But when the hour for love's duel arrived, when he stood
trembling in the presence of rosy cheeks and glancing eyes, and beauty shook her curls and
gave the challenge, his courage always oozed out, and he fled ingloriously from the field of honor.

Far happier than the bachelor is old Uncle Rastus in his cabin, when he holds Aunt Dina's hand
in his and asks: "Who's sweet?" And Dina drops her head over on his shoulder and answers, "Boaf
uv us."

A thousand times happier is the frisky old widower with his pink bald head, his wrinkles and
his rheumatism, who

  Wires in and wires out,
  And leaves the ladies all in doubt,
  As to what is his age and what he is worth,
  And whether or not he owns the earth.

He "toils not, neither does he spin," yet Solomon, in all his glory was not more popular with
the ladies. He is as light-hearted as "Mary's little lamb." He is acquainted with every hog
path in the matrimonial paradise and knows all the nearest cuts to the "sanctum sanctorum"
of woman's heart. But his jealousy is as cruel as the grave. Woe unto the bachelor who dares
to cross his path.

An old bachelor in my native mountains once rose in church to give his experience, in the presence
of his old rival who was a widower, and with whom he was at daggers' points in the race to
win the affections of one of the sisters in Zion. Thus the pious old bachelor spake: "Brethren,
this is a beautiful world. I love to live in it just as well to-day as I ever did in my life.
And the saddest thought that ever crossed this old brain of mine is, that in a few short days
at best, these old eyes will be glazed in death and I'll never get to see my loved ones in
this world any more." And his old rival shouted from the "amen corner," "thank God!"

PHANTOMS.

In every brain there is a bright phantom realm, where fancied pleasures beckon from distant
shores; but when we launch our barks to reach them, they vanish, and beckon again from still
more distant shores. And so, poor fallen man pursues the ghosts of paradise as the deluded
dog chases the shadows of flying birds in the meadow.

The painter only paints the shadows of beauty on his canvas; the sculptor only chisels its
lines and curves from the marble; the sweetest melody is but the faint echo of the wooing voice
of music.

We stumble over the golden nuggets of contentment in pursuit of the phantoms of wealth, and
what is wealth? It can not purchase a moment of happiness. Marble halls may open wide their
doors and offer her shelter, but happiness will flee from a palace to dwell in a cottage. We
crush under our feet the roses of peace and love in our eagerness to reach the illuminated
heights of glory; and what is earthly glory?

I saw a comedian convulse thousands with his delineations of the weaknesses of humanity in
the inimitable "Rip Van Winkle." I saw him make laughter hold its sides, as he impersonated
the coward in "The Rivals;" and I said: I would rather have the power of Joseph Jefferson,
to make the world laugh, and to drive care and trouble from weary brains and sorrow from heavy
hearts, than to wear the blood-stained laurels of military glory, or to be President of the
United States, burdened with bonds and gold, and overwhelmed with the double standard, and
three girl babies.

THE FALSE IDEAL.

It is the false ideal that builds the "Paradise of Fools." It is the eagerness to achieve success
in realms we cannot reach, which breeds more than half the ills that curse the world. If all
the fish eggs were to hatch, and every little fish become a big fish, the oceans would be pushed
from their beds, and the rivers would be eternally "dammed"--with fish; but the whales, and
sharks, and sturgeons, and dog-fish, and eels, and snakes, and turtles, make three meals every
day in the year on fish and fish eggs. If all the legal spawn should hatch out lawyers, the
earth and the fullness thereof would be mortgaged for fees, and mankind would starve to death
in the effort to pay off the "aforesaid and the same." If the entire crop of medical eggs should
hatch out full fledged doctors, old "Skull and Cross Bones" would hold high carnival among
the children of men, and the old sexton would sing:

  "I gather them in,
   I gather them in."

If I could get the ear of the young men who pant after politics, as the hart panteth after
the water brook, I would exhort them to seek honors in some other way, for "Jordan is a hard
road to travel."

THE CIRCUS IN THE MOUNTAINS.

I saw a circus in a mountain town. The mountaineers swarmed from far and near, and lined the
streets on every hand with open mouth and bated breath, as the grand procession, with band,
and clown, and camels, and elephants, and lions, and tigers, and spotted horses, paraded in
brilliant array. The excitement was boundless when the crowd rushed into the tent, and they
left behind them a surging mass of humanity, unprovided with tickets, and destitute of the
silver half of the double standard. Their interest rose to white heat as the audience within
shouted and screamed with laughter at the clown, and cheered the girl in tights, and applauded
the acrobats as they turned somersaults over the elephant. But temptation whispered in the
ear of a gentleman in tow breeches, and he stealthily opened his long bladed knife and cut
a hole in the canvas. A score of others followed suit, and held their sides and laughed at
the scenes within. But as they laughed a showman slipped inside, armed with a policeman's "billy."
He quietly sidled up to the hole where a peeper's nose made a knot on the tent on the inside.
"Whack!" went the "billy"--there was a loud grunt, and old "Tow Breeches" spun 'round like
a top, and cut the "pigeon wing," while his nose spouted blood. "Whack!" went the "billy" again,
and old "Hickory Shirt" turned a somersault backwards and rose "a-runnin'." The last "whack"
fell like a thunderbolt on the Roman nose of a half drunk old settler from away up at the head
of the creek. He fell flat on his back, quivered for a moment, and then sat up and clapped
his hand to his bleeding nose and in his bewilderment exclaimed: "Well I'll be durned! hel-lo
there stranger!" he shouted to a bystander, "whar wuz you at when the lightnin' struck the
show?" Then I saw a row of bleeding noses at the branch near by, taking a bath; and each nose
resembled a sore hump on a camel's back.

So it is around the great arena of political fame and power. "Whack!" goes the "billy" of popular
opinion; and politicians, like old "Tow Breeches," spin 'round with the broken noses of misguided
ambition and disappointed hope. In the heated campaign many a would-be Webster lies down and
dreams of the triumph that awaits him on the morrow, but he wakes to find it only a dream,
and when the votes are counted his little bird hath flown, and he is in the condition of the
old Jew. An Englishman, an Irishman and a Jew hung up their socks together on Christmas Eve.
The Englishman put his diamond pin in the Irishman's sock; the Irishman put his watch in the
sock of the Englishman; they slipped an egg into the sock of the Jew. "And did you git onny
thing?" asked Pat in the morning. "Oh yes," said the Englishman, "I received a fine gold watch,
don't you know. And what did you get Pat?" "Begorra, I got a foine diamond pin." "And what
did you get, Jacob?" said the Englishman to the Jew. "Vell," said Jacob, holding up the egg.
"I got a shicken but it got avay before I got up."

THE PHANTOM OF FORTUNE.

I would not clip the wings of noble, honorable aspiration. I would not bar and bolt the gate
to the higher planes of thought and action, where truth and virtue bloom and ripen into glorious
fruit. There are a thousand fields of endeavor in the world, and happy is he who labors where
God intended him to labor.

The contented plowman who whistles as he rides to the field and sings as he plows, and builds
his little paradise on the farm, gets more out of life than the richest Shylock on earth.

The good old spectacled mother in Israel, with her white locks and beaming face, as she works
in her sphere, visiting the poor, nursing the sick, and closing the eyes of the dead, is more
beautiful in her life, and more charming in her character, than the loveliest queen of society
who ever chased the phantoms of pleasure in the ballroom.

The humblest village preacher who faithfully serves his God, and leads his pious flock in the
paths of holiness and peace, is more eloquent, and plays a nobler part than the most brilliant
infidel who ever blasphemed the name of God.

The industrious drummer who travels all night and toils all day to win comfort for wife, and
children, and mother, and sister, is a better man, and a far better citizen, than the most
successful speculator on Wall Street, who plays with the fortunes of his fellow-man as the
wolf plays with the lamb, or as the cyclone plays with the feather.

Young ladies, when the time comes to marry, say "yes" to the good-natured, big-hearted drummer.
For he is a spring in a desert, a straight flush in a weary hand, a "thing of beauty and a
joy forever," and he will never be at home to bother you.

CLOCKS. And when I read it I thought, what a stupendous task awaits the angel of the resurrection,
when all the countless millions of old rickety, rusty, worm-eaten clocks are to be resurrected,
and wiped, and dusted, and repaired, for mansions in the skies! There will be every kind and
character of clock and clockwork resurrected on that day. There will be the Catholic clock
with his beads, and the Episcopalian clock with his ritual. There will be an old clock resurrected
on that day wearing a broadcloth coat buttoned up to the throat; and when he is wound up he
will go off with a whizz and a bang. He will get up out of the dust shouting, "hallelujah!"
and he will proclaim "sanctification!" and "falling from grace!" and "baptism by sprinkling
and pouring!" as the only true doctrine by which men shall go sweeping through the pearly gate,
into the new Jerusalem. And he will be recognized as a Methodist preacher, a little noisy,
a little clogged with chicken feathers, but ripe for the Kingdom of Heaven.

There will be another old clock resurrected on that day, dressed like the former, but a little
stiffer and straighter in the back, and armed with a pair of gold spectacles and a manuscript.
When he is wound up he will break out in a cold sepulchral tone with, firstly: "foreordination!"
secondly: "predestination!" and thirdly: "the final perseverance of the saints!" And he will
be recognized as a Presbyterian preacher, a little blue and frigid, a little dry and formal,
but one of God's own elect, and he will be labeled for Paradise.

There will be an old Hard-shell clock resurrected, with throat whiskers, and wearing a shad-bellied
coat and flap breeches. And when he is wound up a little, and a little oil is squirted into
his old wheels, he will swing out into space on the wings of the gospel with: "My Dear Beloved
Brethren-ah: I was a-ridin' along this mornin' a-tryin' to study up somethin' to preach to
this dying congregation-ah; and as I rid up by the old mill pond-ah lo and behold! there was
an old snag a sticking up out of the middle of the pond-ah, and an old mud turtle had clim
up out uv the water and was a settin' up on the old snag a sunnin' uv himself-ah; and lo! and
behold-ah! when I rid up a leetle nearer to him-ah, he jumped off of the snag, 'ker chugg'
into the water, thereby proving emersion-ah!"

Our brains are clocks, and our hearts are the pendulums. If we live right in this world, when
the Resurrection Day shall come, the Lord God will polish the wheels, and jewel the bearings,
and crown the casements with stars and with gold. And the pendulums shall be harps encrusted
with precious stones. They shall swing to and fro on angel wings, making music in the ear of
God, and flashing His glory through all the blissful cycles of eternity!

THE PANIC.

