 Henry Bradley's lecture to the
British Academy 'On the relations between spoken and written language' (1913), and they will
see that the Society's Tract II, on 'English Homophones', illustrates the unpractical nature
of any scheme either of pure phonetics in the printing of English books, or even of such a
scheme as is offered by 'the Simplified Spelling Society'; because the great number of homophones
which are now distinguished by their different spellings would make such a phonetic writing
as unutilitarian as our present system is: moreover, if it were adopted it would inevitably
lead to the elimination of far more of these homophones than we can afford to lose; since it
would enforce by its spelling the law which now operates only by speech, that homophones are
self-destructive.

5. Mr. Pearsall Smith has returned to the question of dialectal regeneration mentioned in Tract
I, in which we invited contributions on the subject. In response we had a paper sent to us,
which we do not print because, though full of learning and interesting detail, it was a curious
and general disquisition calculated to divert attention from the practical points. What the
Society asks for is not a list of lost words that are interesting in themselves: we need rather
definite instances of good dialect words which are not homophones and which would conveniently
supply wants. That is, any word proposed for rehabilitation in our practical vocabulary should
be not only a good word in itself, but should fall into some definite place and relieve and
enrich our speech by its usefulness. It is evident that no one person can be expected to supply
a full list of such words, but on the other hand there must be very many of our members who
could contribute one or two; and such contributions are invited.

Exempli gratia. Here are two words with very different titles and claims, nesh and hyppish.

Nesh, which has two columns in the Oxford Dictionary, begins in A.D. 888, and is still heartily
alive in Yorks. and North Derbyshire, where it is used in the sense of being oversensitive
to pain and especially to cold. In this special signification, to which it has locally settled
down after a thousand years of experience, it has no rival; and its restoration to our domestic
vocabulary would probably have a wholesome moral and physical effect on our children.

Hyppish is the Englished form of hypochondriacal, its suffix carrying its usual diminutive
value, so that its meaning is 'somewhat hypochondriacal'. Berkeley, Gray, and Swift used hyps
or the hyp for hypochondriasis, and the adjective was apparently common. It would seem that
hypochondria was then spoken, as hypocrisy still is, with the correct and pleasant short vowels
of the Greek prefix, not as now with a long alien diphthong haipo-. It was presumably this
short y that accidentally killed hyppish; for the word hipped was used of a horse lamed in
the hip, and alongside of this hipped, and maybe attracted by it, an adjective hypt arose.
When once hyp and hypt were confounded with hip and hipped, hyppish would suffer and lose definition.
But hypt and hipped combined forces, and were probably even from the first in their present
uncertain condition, for when nowadays a man says that he is hipped, he has no definite notion
of what he means except that he is in some way, either in his loins or mind incapacitated and
out of sorts. Whether hypt and hipped have mortally wounded each other or are still fighting
in the dark may be open to discussion: hyppish has now a fair field, and if people would know
what the word means, it might be restored, like nesh, to useful domestic activity.

6. The example given of the word fast on p. 12 suggests another matter to which attention might
be paid. If one looks up any word in the Oxford Dictionary, one will be almost distressed to
see how various the significations are to which it is authoritatively susceptible. A word seems
to behave like an animal that goes skirting about discontentedly, in search of a more congenial
habitation. It is sometimes successful, and meets with surprising welcome in some strange corner
where it establishes itself, forgetful of its old home: sometimes, like the bad spirit in the
gospel, it will return to the house whence it came forth. It is, of course, natural and essential
to a living language that such shades and varieties of meaning should evolve themselves, although
they are incidentally a source of ambiguity and subtle traps for careless logic; but when these
varieties so diverge as to arrive ultimately at absurdities and contradictions, then it is
advisable to get rid of them. In such extreme cases the surgeon's knife may sometimes save
life; it is the only cure; and to use a word in a deforming or deformed sense should be condemned
as a solecism. Contributions, stating examples of this with the proposed taboo, are invited.

7. This last fault, of damaging a word by wrong use, might come under the general head of 'Abuse
of words'. This is a wide and popular topic, as may be seen by the constant small rain of private
protests in the correspondence columns of the newspapers. The committee of the S.P.E. would
be glad to meet the public taste by expert treatment of offending words if members would supply
their pet abominations. There was a good letter on the use of morale in the Times Literary
Supplement on February 19. The writer, a member of our Society, permits us to reprint it here
as a sample of sound treatment.

"MORAL(E)

'Tis the sport to have the engineer hoist with his own petard, and the purizing (so to speak)
of the purist has been a tempting game since Lucian baited Lexiphanes; may I yield to the temptation?
During the war our amateur and other strategists have suppressed the English word morale and
combined to force upon us in its stead the French (or Franco-German?) moral. We have submitted,
as to Dora, but with the secret hope, as about Dora, that when the war's tyranny was overpast
we might be allowed our liberty again. Here are two specimens, from your own columns, of the
disciplinary measures to which we have been subject: 'He persistently spells moral (state of
mind of the troops, not their morality) with a final e, a sign of ignorance of French which
is unfortunately so often the mark of the classical scholar'; and again, 'The purist in language
might quarrel with Mr. ----'s title for this book on the psychology of war, for he means by
morale not "ethics" or "moral philosophy", but "the temper of a people expressing itself in
action". But no doubt there is authority for the perversion of the French word.'

To such discipline we have all been laudably amenable, and morale has seldom been seen in the
London papers since 1914; but it, and not moral, is the English word; we once all wrote it
without thinking twice about the matter; even in war-time one met it in the local newspapers
that had not time to keep up with London's latest tricks, and in those parts of the London
Press itself that had to use a tongue understanded of the people. It is very refreshing to
see that morale is now beginning to show itself again, timidly and occasionally, even in select
quarters. The fact is, these literary drill-sergeants have made a mistake; the English morale
is not a 'perversion of the French word'; it is a phonetic respelling, and a most useful one,
of a French word. We have never had anything to do with the French word morale (ethics, morality,
a moral, &c.); but we found the French word moral (state of discipline and spirit in armies,
&c.) suited to our needs, and put an e on to it to keep its sound distinct from that of our
own word moral, just as we have done with the French local (English locale) and the German
Choral (English chorale), and as, using contrary means for the same end of fixing a sound,
we have turned French diplomate into English diplomat. Our English forte ('Geniality is not
his forte,' &c.) is altered from the French fort without even the advantage of either keeping
the French sound or distinguishing the spoken word from our fort; but who proposes to sacrifice
the reader's convenience by correcting the 'ignorant' spelling? In the light of these parallels
is it not the patrons of moral who deserve the imputation of ignorance rather than we common
folk? We do not indeed profess to know what moral and morale mean in French, but then that
knowledge is irrelevant. They do not know the true English method of dealing with borrowings
from French; and that knowledge is highly relevant.

A fair summary of the matter is perhaps this. The case for the spelling moral is that (1) the
French use the word moral for what we used to call morale, and therefore we ought to do the
same; and (2) the French use morale to mean something different from what we mean by it. The
case against moral is (1) that it is a new word, less comprehensible to ordinary people, even
now, after its war-time currency, than the old morale; (2) that it badly needs to be dressed
in italics owing to the occasional danger of confusion with the English word moral, and that
such artificial precautions are never kept up; (3) that half of us do not know whether to call
it m[)o]´ral, mor[)a]´l, or morah´l, and that it is a recognized English custom to resolve
such doubts by the addition of -e or other change of spelling. And the right choice is surely
to make the English word morale, use ordinary type, call it morah´l, and ignore or abstain
from the French word morale, of which we have no need.

The risk of confusion, merely mentioned above, perhaps deserves a paragraph to itself. If we
reinstate the once almost universal morale, we need no italics, and there is no fear of confusion;
if we adopt moral, we need italics, and there is no hope of getting them; it is at present
printed oftener without than with them. The following five extracts, in some of which the English
adjective moral, and in some the French noun moral, is meant, are printed here exactly as they
originally appeared, that is, with moral in the same type as the rest, and they are enough
to suggest how easy it is for real doubts to arise about which word is being used--'An astounding
increase in the moral discipline and patriotism of German soldiers.' Has, or has not, a comma
dropped out after moral? 'It is, indeed, a new proof of the failing moral and internal troubles
of the German people.' Moral and internal? or moral and troubles? 'A true arbitrator, a man
really impartial between two contendants and even indifferent to their opposing morals.' 'The
Russian army will recover its moral and fighting power.' 'The need of Poland, not only for
moral, but for the material support of the Allies.'

H. W. FOWLER."

*       *       *       *       *

'SPELLING PRONUNCIATIONS'

