We need not stop here to give any detailed accounts of these letters; suffice it to say they
were just such as any of the bright, happy, boyish readers of these pages would have written
under similar circumstances to their loved mothers and friends far away.  It was noticed that
while they were full of fun and laughter while writing to their school chums and other young
friends, yet when they came to the writing of the letters to their mothers there was a quiet
time among them, and some tears dropped on the pages, and some throats had lumps in them. 
All right, boys; we think not the less but much the more of you, because of the love and affection
for your mothers, between whom and you now rolls the wide Atlantic.  Months will elapse ere
letters from home will reach you, or you will have the opportunity of writing again; and so
now, while you have the chance, send loving letters to the precious mothers, whose love excels
all other earthly love.  Frank, Alec, and Sam all have, as you have, good mothers.  They never
gave bad advice, but always the best counsel.  They never led the boys astray, but ever stimulated
to a noble life.  They always loved and were ever more anxious to forgive and forget than the
boys were to be forgiven.

Great was the noise and excitement at the fort next morning, and very early were the boys astir
to see what was the cause.  The long-expected brigades of boats had arrived with the cargoes
of furs.  As they were all sorted in well-packed bales, weighing each about eighty or ninety
pounds, the work of transferring them to the ship did not take very long.  One boat in running
some wild and dangerous rapids had been submerged and nearly lost, with all its crew, who escaped
only because they could swim like otters.  The cargo of furs had all gone under the waves ere
rescued, and so it was necessary to open all the bales of fur, with which the boat had been
loaded, and dry them in the bright sun as quickly as possible.  This work very much interested
the boys, and, as the assortment of furs was a varied one, they had their first opportunity
of seeing what rich and valuable furs this wild country could produce.

There were no less than six varieties of foxes, the most valuable being the black and silver
ones.  Then there were cross foxes, blue foxes, as well as white and red ones.  The rich otters
and splendid black beavers very much interested them, and especially the prime bear and wolf
skins. And as they looked at them and many other kinds their mouths fairly watered at the prospect
of during the few months being engaged in the exciting sport of capturing the comrades of these
in their native forests.

Yes, they would succeed in some instances, as our book will tell; but now as they looked at
these splendid skins lying so quiet and still they little imagined the dangers and hardships
which would be theirs ere the fierce bears and savage wolves they were to assail would render
up their splendid robes.

Very much interested also were they in the hardy voyageurs, or trip men, who constituted these
brigades.  Dark and swarthy they were, with beardless faces, and long black hair that rested
on their shoulders. From remote and different regions had they come.  Here were brigades from
the Assiniboine, Red River, Cumberland, and the Saskatchewan region.  Many of the boatmen were
of the Metis--half-French and Indian; and they spoke a language that was a mixture of both,
with some English intermixed that was not always the most polite.

From the mighty Saskatchewan had come down that great river for a thousand miles, and then
onward for several hundred more, brigades that had, in addition to the furs and robes of that
land, large supplies of dried meat and tallow, and many bags of the famous food called pemmican,
obtained from the great herds of buffalo that still, in those days, like the cattle on a thousand
hills, thundered through the land and grazed on its rich pasturage and drank from its beautiful
streams.  The men of these Saskatchewan brigades were warriors who had often been in conflict
with hostile tribes, and could tell exciting stories of scalping parties, and the fierce conflict
for their lives when beleaguered by some relentless foes.  Some of them bore on face or scalp
the marks of the wounds received in close tomahawk encounter, and, for the gift of a pocketknife
or gaudy handkerchief from our eager boys, rehearsed with all due enlargement the story of
the fierce encounter with superior numbers of their bitterest enemies, how they had so gloriously
triumphed, but had not come off unscathed, as these great scars did testify.

Thus excited and interested did the boys wander from one encampment of these brigades to another.
The word had early gone out from the chief factor, Mr McTavish, that these boys were his special
friends, and as such were to be treated with consideration by all.  This was quite sufficient
to insure them a welcome everywhere, and so they acquired a good deal of general information,
as they became acquainted with people from places, of which they had heard but little, and
from others of some regions until then to them unknown.

In addition to those already referred to, there were brigades from Lac- la-Puie, the Lake of
the Woods, Cumberland House, Athabasca, and Swan River, and other places many hundreds of miles
away.

As each brigade arrived it formed its own encampment separate from the others.  Here the fires
of dry logs were built on the ground, and the meals prepared and eaten.  When the day's work
was over, the men gathered around the fire's bright glow and smoked their pipes, laughed and
chatted, and then, each wrapping himself in a single blanket, they lay down on the ground to
sleep, with no roof above them but the stars.

As the goods brought from England in large bulk had to be made up into bundles, called in the
language of the country "pieces," each weighing from eighty to one hundred pounds, that could
be easily carried around the portages by the Indians, several days must elapse ere the return
trip would be begun.  Very interesting were these days to the boys, as from camp fire to camp
fire they wandered, making friends everywhere with the Indians by their hearty, manly ways.

At first the wildest and fiercest looking fellows most attracted them; those wild warriors
who could tell of scalping parties and horse- stealing adventures among the warlike tribes
of the great plains.  After a while, however, they found themselves most interested in the
brigades that could travel fastest, that had the record of making the fastest trip in the shortest
time.  What at first was a surprise to them was that the brigades that held these best records
were the Christian ones, who took time to say their prayers morning and evening and always
rested on the Sabbath.  This proved that these hard-working men, who rested one day in seven,
could do and did better and faster work than those who knew no Sabbath, but pushed on from
day to day without rest.  Man as a working animal needs the day of rest, and with one off in
seven will, as has been here and in other places proved, do better work in the remaining six
than the one who takes no day of rest.

Soon after the arrival of the brigades with the furs, which were estimated as being worth in
London over three hundred thousand pounds, they were all safely stowed away in the vessel,
and a favourable wind springing up from the south-west, the anchor was lifted, the sails hoisted,
and the good ship Prince Arthur started on her return voyage to the old land.  The boys waved
their handkerchiefs and shouted their farewells until the vessel was far out on the dancing
waves like a thing of life and beauty.

To Big Tom, of the Norway House Brigade, had been intrusted the responsibility of safely taking
the boys up from York Factory to the residence of Mr Ross.  His Indian name was Mamanowatum,
which means, "O be joyful," but he had long been called Big Tom on account of his gigantic size.

Ample resources had been sent with the boys to pay for all their requirements.  Mr McTavish
had an experienced clerk look after their outfit and select for them everything needed, not
only for the journey, but for their requirements during the year of their stay in the country.
So they were here furnished with what was called the yearly supplies, as York Factory is the
best place, keeping as it does large reserve supplies for all the interior trading posts. 
The English boots were discarded for moccasins; fringed leggings manufactured out of well-
tanned skins and various other articles of apparel more suitable to the wild country were obtained.

Two good Hudson Bay blankets were purchased for each boy, and, as they had come to rough it,
it was thought best to give them no tent, but each one had in his outfit a large piece of oiled
canvas in case of a fierce rainstorm assailing them.  They were given the usual rations of
food, with tea and sugar for so many days, and each lad was furnished with a copper kettle,
a tin cup, a tin plate, a knife, fork, and spoon.  As luxuries they furnished themselves with
towels, soap, brush, and comb. In addition to these supplies for this first trip there were
sent up all that would be needed during the long months that they were to spend in the country.
The boys were specially anxious that the supply of ammunition should be most liberal.

For weapons they each had a good double-barrelled breech-loading gun-- then just beginning
to come into use--which had been carefully selected for them ere they left home.  In addition
they each had a first-class sheath knife with hilt, good for close hand-to-hand encounter with
animals, and also useful in skinning the game when killed or in cutting kindling wood for a
fire.  A first-class knife is an indispensable requisite for a hunter in the North-west.  Indeed,
there is a saying in that country, "Give an Indian a knife and a string, and he will make his
living and his way anywhere."

A brigade in the Hudson Bay service consisted of from four to twenty boats; each boat was supposed
to carry from eighty to a hundred pieces of goods or bales of fur in addition to the supplies
for the men.  They were made out of spruce or balsam, and were like large skiffs, sharp at
both ends.

They were manned by nine men.  The man in charge was called the steersman; standing in the
sharp angle of the stern, he steered the boat either by a rudder or a long oar, which he handled
with great skill. The other eight men rowed the boat along with great oars, in the use of which
they were very clever.  Each boat was provided with a small mast and a large square sail. 
When there was no favourable wind the mast was unstepped and lashed on the outside of the boat
under the rowlocks. Often for days together only the oars were used.  This was specially the
case in river routes.  However, in the great lakes whenever there was any possibility of sailing
the mast was stepped, the sail hoisted, and the weary toilers at the oars had a welcome rest;
and often did they need it, for the work was most slavish and exhausting.

In each brigade there was a boss who had control of all the boats.  He gave the word when to
start in the morning and when to camp at night. His word was absolute in all matters of dispute.
He had the privilege of selecting the best boat in the brigade, and was supposed to always
be at the front when dangerous rapids had to be run, or death in any form had to be faced;
in storm or hurricane his boat had to be the first to face the trying ordeal, and his hand
to be on the helm.  Only the well- tried old steersman of many years' experience could hope
to reach to this position, and when once it was obtained unceasing vigilance was the price
paid for the retention of the post.  One mistake in running the rapids, or a single neglect
to detect the coming of the storm in time to get to shore and the furs securely covered over
with the heavy tarpaulins, with which each boat was supplied, was quite sufficient to cause
him to lose the much coveted position.  About the only liberty taken with him was, if possible,
when the boats were crossing a great lake, with each big sail set, to try if possible by superior
management of the boat to get to the distant shore ahead of him.

The start was made about three o'clock in the afternoon, as is the general custom of these
brigades of boats; the idea being only to go a few miles for the first day and thus find out
if everything is in thorough working order, and that nothing has been forgotten.

The camp was made on the bank of the river where dry wood was abundant, and where there was
some sheltered cove or harbour in which the boats could safely be secured in case of violent
storms coming up in the night, which was not an infrequent occurrence.

Big Tom appointed one of the Indian oarsmen to look after the boys.  His duties were to cook
their meals and select for their beds as smooth and soft a place as was possible to find on
the granite rocks; or, if it happened to be in a soft and swampy place where the boats stopped
for the night, he was expected to forage round and find some dry old grass in the used-up beaver
meadows, or to cut down some balsam boughs on which the oilcloth would be spread, and then
their blanket beds would be made.  These boughs of the balsam or spruce, when broken up, make
a capital bed.  The boys, after a few nights' experiment with various kinds of beds, became
so much attached to those made of the spruce or balsam that, unless very weary with some exciting
sport during the day, they generally took upon themselves the work of securing them at each
night's camping place.

Tables were considered unnecessary luxuries.  The dishes were arranged on a smooth rock if
one was to be found.  The food was served up by the Indian attendant, and the three boys and
Big Tom sat down and enjoyed the plain but hearty meal.  It is generally the custom for the
commodore of the brigade to take his meals with any travellers he may have in charge.  When
they have dined, the Indian servant or attendant then sits down and has his meal.  After supper
the Indians who have more quickly prepared and eaten their suppers, as they waste but little
time in details, gather round the splendid camp fire, and for an hour or so engage in pleasant
chat; and while having their evening smoke they show to each other their various purchases
secured at York Factory.  At this post they are allowed to take up in goods half of their wages
for their services, and carry them along with them in their boats.

After a final visit was made by the different steersmen to their boats to see that everything
was snug and tight, and a consultation with Big Tom as to the likelihood or not of a storm
coming up, they all gathered round the camp fire for evening prayers.  Big Tom took charge
of the evening service.  He first read from his Indian Testament, translated into his own language
and printed in the clear, beautiful syllabic characters invented by one of the early missionaries.
After the Scriptures were read Martin Papanekis, a sweet singer, led the company in singing
in their own language a beautiful translation of the "Evening Hymn."  When this was sung they
all reverently bowed while Big Tom offered up an appropriate prayer.

Very sweetly sounded the voices of these Christian Indians as here amid nature's solitudes
arose from their lips and hearts the voice of prayer and praise.  The effect on the boys was
not only startling but helpful. In their minds there had been associated very little of genuine
Christianity with the Indians, but just the reverse.  They expected to meet them with tomahawks
and scalping knives, but not with Bibles and hymn books; they expected to hear war-whoops,
but not the voice of Christian song and earnest prayer.

As the boys lay that night in their blanket beds on the rocks they could not but talk of the
evening prayers, and perhaps that simple but impressive service did more to bring vividly and
helpfully before them the memories of their happy Christian homes far away than anything else
that had occurred since they left them.

THE EARLY CALL--THE PICTURESQUE ROUTE--THE TOILSOME PORTAGES--RIVAL BRIGADES--FIRST BEAR--ALEC'S
SUCCESSFUL SHOT.

So excited were the boys with their strange romantic surroundings that the first night they
lay down in their beds, thus prepared not far from the camp fire on the rocks, they could hardly
sleep.  It was indeed a new experience to be able to look up and see the stars shining in the
heavens above them.  Then, when they looked around, on one side they saw the Indians reclining
there in picturesque attitudes, smoking their pipes and engaged in quiet talk.  When they turned
and looked on the other side there was the dense dark forest peopled in their young imaginations
with all sorts of creatures, from the fierce wolf and savage bear to the noisy "whisky jack,"
a pert, saucy bird, about the size and colour of a turtle dove, that haunts the camp fires
and with any amount of assurance helps himself to pemmican and other articles of food, if a
bag is left open or the provisions exposed to his keen eye. Still sounding in their ears were
his strange, querulous notes, forming not half so sweet a lullaby as the music of the waves
that beat and broke a few yards from where they lay.

But "tired nature's sweet restorer, balmy sleep," came after a time, and in dreamless slumber
soon were they wrapped, nor did they stir until early next morning.  They were aroused by the
musical voice of Big Tom, from which rang out the boatman's well-known call:

"Leve, Leve, Leve!"

This is not Indian, but French, and has been taken by the Indians from the early French voyageurs,
who long years before this used to traverse many parts of these wild regions to trade with
the Indians.  Quite a number of names still remain in the country as relics of these hardy
early French explorers.

This ringing call met with a prompt response from all.  No one dared to remain for another
nap.  At once all was hurry and activity.  The fires were quickly rekindled, copper tea-kettles
were speedily filled and boiled, a hasty breakfast eaten, prayers offered, and then "All aboard!"
is the cry of Big Tom.  The kettles, blankets, and all the other things used are hastily stowed
away, and the journey is resumed.

If the wind is fair the sail is hoisted and merrily they travel on.  If not, the heavy oars
were brought out, and as they rose and fell in unison the boats were propelled on at the rate
of about six miles an hour.  Three or four times a day did they go ashore, boil the kettles,
and have a meal, for the air of that land is bracing and the appetites are always good.

The route used for so many years by the Hudson Bay Company to transport their goods into the
interior from York Factory is utterly unfit for navigation, as we understand that word, as
the rivers are full of wild, dangerous rapids and falls.  Some of these rapids can be run at
all times during the summer, others only when the water is high.  Many of them are utterly
impassable at any time.  The result is that numerous portages have to be made.  As the making
of a portage was exceedingly interesting to our boys, we will here describe one.

The boats were rowed up against the current as far as possible and then headed for the shore.
Here at the landing place they were brought in close to the rocks and every piece of cargo
was taken out.  These pieces were put on the men's shoulders, one piece being fastened at both
sides by a carrying strap, which in the middle is drawn across the forehead. Then, using the
first piece thus fastened, one or two more pieces are piled upon it and the Indian starts with
this heavy load along the rough and rocky trail to the end of the portage.  This end is the
place beyond the rapids where safe navigation again commences.  In quick succession the men
are thus loaded until all the cargoes are thus transported from one side to the other.

The boys were very eager to help.  So they quickly loaded themselves with their guns and blankets,
and, striking out into the trail along which they saw the Indians were hurrying, they bravely
endeavoured to keep those in sight who had started just before them.  To their great surprise
they found this to be an utter impossibility.  The swinging jog trot of an Indian does not
seem to be a very rapid pace, but the white man unaccustomed to it finds out very quickly that
it takes long practice for him to equal it.  At first the boys thought that it was because
they had loaded themselves too heavily, and so they quite willingly took a rest on the way;
dropping their blankets and guns, and sitting down on a rock beside the trail, they watched
with admiration the Indians in single file speeding along with their heavy loads.  Many of
these men can carry on each trip three pieces, that is a load of from two hundred and forty
to three hundred pounds.

As Ayetum, the Indian who had charge of the white boys' cooking arrangements, was passing them
as they sat there in the portage he said, in broken English:

"White boys leave guns and blankets, Ayetum come for them soon."

This was quite agreeable to the tired lads, and so they started up again, Frank saying as they
did so:

"Now we will show them that we can keep up to them."  Gallantly they struck out, but to a white
boy running over an Indian trail where rocks and fallen trees and various other obstructions
abound is a very different thing from a smooth road in a civilised land.  For a time they did
well, but when hurrying along on a narrow ledge of rock an unnoticed creeping root tripped
up and sent Sam flying over the side of a steep place, where he went floundering down twenty
or thirty feet among the bracken and underbrush.  Fortunately he was not much hurt, but he
needed the assistance of two Indians to get him up again.

Thus rapidly passed the days as the brigade hurried on.  Not an hour was wasted.  It was necessary
to move on as quickly as possible, as not twenty-four hours would elapse ere the next brigade
would be dispatched from York Factory, and not only would it be a great disgrace to be overtaken,
but the rivalry and strife of the boats' crews in the portages, in their efforts to see which
could get their cargoes over first, would be most intense; and sometimes there is bad blood
and quarrelling, especially if the brigades happen to be of rival tribes.

Hence it was ever the plan of the great company that employed them all to keep them at least
a day or two apart on these adventurous and exciting journeys.  To Big Tom and his men had
been given the post of honour, and it was well-known that such was his skill as a leader, and
so well was he backed up by his well-trained, stalwart men, that unless some great accident
happened, no brigade following would have any chance of catching up to him ere his journey
was finished.

One day when passing through a lakelike expanse of the river they saw a large black bear swimming
as fast as he could directly ahead of them. At length a cry was raised, "A bear! a bear!" 
The men bent to their oars and there was an exciting chase.

Fortunately for the pursuers, it was a wide open space and the bear was far out from land.
Even in these heavy boats the men can row faster than a bear can swim.  Knowing well the habits
of the bear, the men's first efforts were to cut him off from the mainland, and thus oblige
him to swim for one of the many islands which could be seen on ahead.  If they could succeed
in this, of course he would have a poor chance, as the boats would speedily surround him there.
Bears know that they are not safe on islands when hunted, and so cunningly endeavour to keep
from them; or, if so unfortunate as to be obliged to take refuge on one when closely pursued,
they do not seem able to keep quiet and try to lie hidden and unseen, but just as soon as possible
they make the attempt to reach the mainland, and there hide themselves away from their pursuers
in the dense forest or underbrush.  This peculiarity of the bear is well-known to the Indian
hunters; so in this case the first object of the men, as they would hardly be able to get near
enough to this big fellow to shoot him in the water, was to head him off from the mainland
and thus force him on an island.  In this they succeeded, as they anticipated.

Frank, Alec, and Sam were, of course, intensely excited as the chase advanced.  In their Zoological
Gardens they had often seen and watched various species of bears.  There, however, they were
in captivity and could do no harm.  Here, however, away ahead of them like a great Newfoundland
dog, was this big, fierce fellow, wild and free, making the race of his life, to escape from
his relentless pursuers.

At first he struck out for the mainland, and made the most desperate efforts to reach the shore;
but when at length he saw one of the boats surely crawling along so that it would soon be between
him and the point of land toward which he was swimming, he accepted the situation and struck
off for a large island that seemed to be densely covered with trees and underbrush.

Nearer and nearer came the boats, propelled so vigorously by the muscular, excited men, whose
great oars rose and fell with all the precision of clockwork, as they saw they were sure of
gaining on their prey.

As Big Tom's boat was at the front, he said to the excited boys, who could hardly restrain
themselves:

"You boys want to shoot him?"

Of course they did.  What boy under similar circumstances would not have given almost anything
for a shot at a bear in a position like this?

So the guns were quickly loaded, and under Tom's direction the boys were given a position one
after another in the stern of the boat.  Grandly did the men row so as to bring the bear within
range ere the island should be reached.  When the bear was about two hundred feet from shore
Tom, who had had some difficulty in restraining the boys from firing, now ordered the men to
cease rowing, and, as had been arranged with the boys, he gave the word to Sam to fire.  Quickly
rang out the report of his gun.

"Did you hit him?" said Big Tom.

"I think I did," was Sam's odd reply; "for see, he is swimming faster than he did before I fired."

This quaint answer was met by shouts of laughter from all who understood its comical meaning.

"Now, Frank, it is your turn," said Big Tom.

Carefully aiming for his head--and really there was not much of it to be seen, for a bear swims
low in the water--Frank fired, and a howl and a vigorous shaking of the head told that he had
been hit somewhere, but not enough to stop his progress.  The boat, under the momentum it had
received from the oars, was still moving on about as fast as the bear was able to swim.

"Now, Alec," said Big Tom, as the lad took his position in the stern of the boat, "when he
tries to run through the shallow water near those rocks, your turn comes.  Hit him behind the
shoulder, good young Scotchman."

