Robert Rogers devised in 1601 the sum of L.400 to the Leathersellers' Company, 'to be employed
in lands, the best pennyworth they could get;' and that the house should have 40s. of it a
year for ever. The remainder was to be bestowed upon poor scholars, students of divinity--two
of Oxford, and two of Cambridge, for four years; and after them to two others of each university;
and after them, to others; and so on for ever. He also, by the same will, devised L.200 to
be lent to four young men, merchant adventurers, at L.6, 13s. 4d., for the L.200, interest.
The whole of the interest was to be spent in bread--to be distributed among poor prisoners--and
coal for poor persons, with the exception of some small fees and gratuities to the parish clerk
and beadle, for their trouble in carrying out his intentions.

Lewisham, once a town in Kent, but now nothing more than a suburb of London, enjoys the benefactions
of the Rev. Abraham Colfe, who, in 1656, bequeathed property for the maintenance of numerous
charities. Some of them are singularly characteristic. Having provided for the erection of
three strong alms-houses, he directed that certain alms-bodies should be periodically chosen,
who were to be 'godly poor inhabitants of Lewisham, and being single persons, and threescore
years old, past their hard bodily labour, and able to say the Lord's Prayer, the Belief, and
the Ten Commandments,' &c. &c. All these alms-bodies were to have '3d. each allowed them every
day for their comfortable sustenance--that is, 21d. a week--to be paid them every month during
their single life, and as long as they should behave themselves honestly and godly, and duly
frequent the parish church.' They were to be summarily removed if guilty of profane or wicked
conduct. The alms-bodies were not to exceed five in number at any one time. He directed a buttery
to be built for their convenience, and also a little brick room, with a window in it, for the
five alms-bodies to assemble in daily for prayer, and that the schoolmaster of the reading-school
should pray with them there. He further directed the enclosure of gardens, of sixteen feet
broad at the least, for their recreation. Mr Colfe also left money for lectures at Lewisham
Church, as well as a sum for the purchase of Bibles, until they should amount to the number
of thirty or forty, which were to be chained to the pews, or otherwise preserved; and he left
12d. a quarter to the clerk for writing down the names of those that should use them; also
2s. 8d. to him for taking care of the clock and dial; also, 10s. for a sermon on the 5th of
November, and 12d. in bread for the poor who should come and hear it, and 6d. to the parish
clerk; also 20s., to be distributed a penny at a time, to the children and servants who could
best say their catechism, and 6d. to the minister for catechising them; also, a yearly sum
of money for distributing on every Lord's-day after the morning service, seven penny wheaten
loaves, to seven of the most honest, peaceable, and godly poor householders of Lewisham, who
could say the Lord's Prayer, the Belief, and the Ten Commandments; also, 5s. a year to poor
maid-servants, who at the time of their marriage had continued seven years with their master
or mistress in Lewisham; with numerous other bequests. He further left moneys for the preservation
of his father's, grandfather's, his wife's, and his own monument--his own being an oaken plank
oiled, and a stone 'a foot square every way, and three feet long.' The stone and plank were
removed many years ago, and an inscribed tablet has been set into the outer wall of the church.

The practice of leaving money for the sustentation of tomb-stones and monuments, appears to
have prevailed for many generations; and may be very naturally accounted for, by the repugnance
which most men would feel, to the idea of having their bones knocked about by the sexton's
spade, and then wheeled off to the bone-house, if there happens to be a bone-house, or shot
into the neighbouring river, or on a farmer's dung-heap, if there is no such convenience as
a bone-house at hand. It was this feeling that induced the celebrated sculptor, Chantrey, to
make sure of a quiet resting-place for his remains.[2] In so doing, he was, though perhaps
unconsciously, but following the example of many who have gone before him. We have more than
once encountered a sober party upon their annual visit to some country church-yard tomb, of
which, by virtue of some bequest--which provides them with a good dinner upon the occasion--they
are the appointed guardians. The worshipful members of the London companies sometimes choose
to rest from their labours in a rural grave; and when they do, survivors are always to be found
not unwilling to enjoy once a year a pensive holiday, coupled with the creature comforts, which
the quiet comrade whose behest they execute has taken care to provide for them. It would be
perhaps difficult to find a single church in all the little towns and hamlets within a dozen
miles of London, which does not contain one tenant at least who has thus secured permanent
possession of his last resting-place. So strong is this feeling in some individuals, that they
shrink from confiding even in the stone-vaults in the interior of a city church. Thus, Sir
William Rawlins, not so very long ago, bequeathed a certain sum of money for the preservation
of his tomb and monument in Bishopsgate Church. The bequest provides for the remuneration of
the visitors, who are specified parish functionaries, and entertains them with a good dinner
on the day of the annual visitation, which they are bound to make--to inspect the monument
and tomb, and to guarantee their good condition. In many instances, the sum originally devised
for the sustentation of a grave or monument is not sufficient, in the present day, to remunerate
residents in London for looking after it, and the money has been transferred to the parish
in which the testator lies, and has become the perquisite of the sexton.

In the year 1635, one John Fletcher bequeathed to the Fishmongers' Company the sum of L.120,
to supply 10s. every month to the poor of St Peter's Hospital, to provide them with a dinner
on Sunday.

In the year 1653, Mr James Glassbrook bequeathed, after his wife's death, the sum of L.500
in the following words: 'and L.500 more to such uses as follow--to the poor of the parish of
St Bololph Without, in which I dwell, L.5 in bread yearly; L.5 to the poor of St Giles's yearly
in bread; to the poor of St Sepulchre's yearly in bread, L.5, to be given every Sabbath-day
in the churches.' The amount of bread at the present time given away in London under this disposition,
supplemented by some smaller bequests, is sixty-eight half-quartern loaves a week. The same
poor persons, when they once get on the list, continue to receive the bread during their whole
lives, unless they cease to reside in the parish, or are struck off the list of pensioners
for misconduct.

One Daniel Midwinter, in 1750, left L.1000 to the Stationers' Company, to pay L.14 a year to
the parish of St Faith's; and a like sum to Hornsey parish, to be applied in apprenticing two
boys or girls of the several parishes, and to fit them out in clothes. At the present time,
the money is paid over to the parties receiving the apprentices, with a recommendation to lay
it out in clothes for the children.

By the will of John Stock, the parish of Christchurch received, among other legacies, the sum
of L.100, the interest of which was directed to be applied in the following manner: one guinea
to be paid to the vicar for a sermon to be preached by him on Good-Friday; 10s. to the curate
for reading the prayers on that day; and the remainder to be equally distributed among such
poor women as chose to remain and receive the sacrament after the service!

A Mr James Wood, amongst other curious provisions, devised to the church-wardens of the parish
of St Nicholas Cole Abbey, the sum of 15s. annually, to be given away in twopences to such
poor people as they should meet in the streets when going and returning from church on a specified
day.

The inhabitants of Watling Street, and other districts in the vicinity of St Antholin's Church,
are familiar with the sound of what is known in the neighbourhood as the 'Fish-bell.' This
is a bell which rings out every Friday night from St Antholin's tower, to summon the inhabitants
to evening prayers: very few people attend to the summons, which comes at an inconvenient time
for that busy locality. There stands almost against the walls of the church a pump, which is
always in good repair, and yields an excellent supply of water, greatly to the convenience
of the neighbourhood. Both the pump and the prayers are the legacy of an old fish-woman of
the last century. It is said, that for forty years of her life she was in the habit of purchasing
fish in the small hours of the morning at Billingsgate Market; these she washed and prepared
for her customers at a small spring near St Antholin's Church, and afterwards cried them about
the town upon her head. Having prospered in her calling, she bequeathed a sufficient sum to
perpetuate a weekly service in the church, and a good and efficient pump erected over the spring
of which she had herself enjoyed a life-long privilege.

In St George's in the East, there is a charity, well-known as Raine's Charity, which was founded
by Henry Raine, Esq., in the earlier part of the last century. The charity consists of two
endowed schools, sufficiently well provided for the maintenance and instruction of fifty boys
and as many girls, and the payment and support of a master and mistress. It is one part of
the system of management, that six pupils of either sex leave the schools every year, to make
room for as many new ones. By a somewhat whimsical provision in the will of the founder, a
species of annual lottery comes off at the discharge of the six girls. If they have behaved
well, have been attentive and obedient, and punctual and exact in the observance of their religious
duties, they are entitled to draw lots for the sum of L.100, which will be paid to the fortunate
holder of the prize as a marriage-portion upon her wedding-day. It is further provided, that
the wedding is to take place on the 1st day of May; and that, in addition to the portion, L.5
is to be expended upon a marriage-dinner and a merry-making.

Bequests for the portioning of poor girls and virtuous servant-maids are, indeed, not at all
uncommon. In the village of Bawburgh, in Norfolk, there is one founded in the last century
by a Quaker gentleman, who left a sum of money, the interest of which is shared among the servant-girls
in the place who get married. The amount is not payable until twelve months after the wedding.
The village being small, it will sometimes happen that a good sum accumulates before an applicant
comes forward who can substantiate a claim upon it. The object of such bequests as these is
sufficiently plain: the donors had evidently in view the counteracting of the wretched tendency
of the old poor-law, which, by giving the mother of an illegitimate child a claim upon the
parish funds, actually placed a premium upon female frailty.

In London, there are charitable dispositions and bequests for the nursery of every virtue that
could be named, but more especially of industry, providence, and thrift. A man may be brought
into the world by voluntary contributions; he may be maintained and educated at a foundling
asylum, if his parents, as thousands do, choose to throw him upon the public compassion; he
may ride into a good business upon the back of a borrowed capital, for which he pays but a
nominal interest; and if he fail to realise a competence by his own endeavours, he may perchance
revel in some corporation sinecure, or, at the worst, luxuriate in an alms-house, and be finally
deposited in the church-yard--and all at other people's expense. On the other hand, if he be
made of the right metal, he may carve his way to fortune and to civic fame, and may die full
of years and honours--in which case, he is pretty sure to add one more to the list of charitable
donors whose legacies go to swell the expectancies of the city poor. It would be difficult
for any eccentric testator in the present day to hit upon a new method of disposing of the
wealth which he can no longer keep. Every device for the exercise of posthumous generosity
seems to have been exhausted long ago.

The trust-estates, the source of so many of the city of London charities, are mostly, if not
all, under the control of the corporate companies. How they are managed, is a secret altogether
unknown to the public, and of which, indeed, the livery and freemen of some of the companies
have but a very limited knowledge. The revenue derived from the trust-estates, according to
their own shewing, is not much less than L.90,000 a year; but they have large revenues, of
which they do not choose to shew any account at all. These are supposed to arise mainly from
the increase in value of property originally devised to charitable uses--which increase it
is their custom to appropriate as they please. 'Thus, for example,' says a writer on this subject,
'if a testator left to any one of these companies a piece of land then worth L.10 per annum,
directing that L.10 should be annually appropriated to the support of a school, and the land
subsequently increases in value to L.500, then the master and wardens of the company claim
the right of appropriating to their own uses the surplus of L.490. In no equitable view of
the case can this be deemed to be private property.' It seems probable that these things will
be looked into before long. From a motion lately made in the House of Commons, we learn that
a thorough investigation is contemplated into the management and application of all charities
throughout the kingdom, the inquiry to be conducted at the cost of the several charities, the
largest of which are not to pay more than L.50, and the smaller ones twopence in the pound,
upon the amount of their capital. Perhaps this inquiry may lead to the recovery of some of
the charities which are stated to be lost, and of which nothing but the titles, under the denomination
of So-and-so's gift, remain upon the corporation records.

The secret management of the trust-estates contrasts curiously with the pompous exhibition
which some of the worshipful companies make of their deeds of benevolence. Some of the smaller
and older churches of London are stuck over in the interior with enormous black boards, as
big as the church door almost, upon which are emblazoned, in gilt letters, the donations to
the poor, to the school, to the repair of the fabric, &c. from the worshipful company of This
and That, from the days of King James--the inscriptions of whose time are illegible through
the smoke and damp of centuries--down to the days of Queen Victoria, and the donations of last
Christmas, fresh and glittering from the hands of the gilder. Thus, the interesting old church
of St Bartholomew the Great is lined with the eleemosynary exploits of the worshipful Ironmongers'
Company, whose multitudinous banners of black and gold are in abominable discordance with the
severe and simple architecture of the ancient edifice. 'Let not thy left hand know what thy
right hand doeth,' is a monition apparently not much in repute among the corporate companies.

The reader may gather from the perusal of the above desultory examples, selected from a mass
of similar ones, some idea of the enormous amount of the funds, intended for benevolent purposes,
which Christian men have bequeathed to the world; and they may perhaps serve to enlighten the
curious observer on the subject of some of the unobtrusive phenomena which occasionally excite
his admiration and arouse his conjecture. They are the silent charities of men in the silent
land. How much good they do, and how much harm, and on which side the balance is likely to
lie--these are questions which for the present we have neither time nor space to discuss.

FOOTNOTES:

[2] See Chambers's Pocket Miscellany, vol. iv.

LABOUR STANDS ON GOLDEN FEET.

The condition of the working-classes in this country is a subject of intense interest to all
thinking men; but it is profitable as well as amusing to transfer our attention sometimes to
the same portions of society in other countries. In Germany, for instance, the people are as
busy as we are with their 'hand-workers,' and the questions of freedom of industry and general
instruction are as warmly discussed as at home. We have now before us a little volume by the
philosopher and historian, Zschokke, which, in the form of a fictitious narrative, treats very
fully of the status of the mechanic in Fatherland; and we are tempted to cull a few extracts
which may afford the reader materials for perhaps an interesting comparison.[3]

The real hero of the story is Hand-labour, and his progress is described throughout three generations
of men. He is the Thought of the book, illustrated by adventure and vicissitude; living when
the human agents die in succession; and leaving a distinct and continuous track in the reader's
mind, when the names and persons fade or conglomerate in his memory. And yet some of these
names and persons are not feebly individualised. The father, the son, and the grandson stand
well out upon the canvas; and while the family likeness is strictly preserved from generation
to generation, the men are seen independent and alone, each in his own special development.
The patriarch was a travelling tinker, who wheeled his wares about the country in a barrow;
and then, rising in the world, attained the dignity of a hawker, with a cart of goods, drawn
by a little gray ass. His son Jonas trotted on foot beside him in all his journeys, dining
like his father on bread and water, and sleeping in barns or stables. But when the boy was
old enough, he was turned off to pick up his own subsistence like the redbreasts, the sparrows,
and the woodpeckers. 'Listen, my lad,' quoth Daddy Thaddaeus; 'this is the spring. Look for
sloes and elderberries, rose-leaves and others for ointment; marjoram, spurge, and thyme, wherever
thou mayst and canst. These we will sell to the apothecaries. In summer, gather basketfuls
of strawberries, bilberries, and raspberries; carry them to the houses: they will yield money.
In winter, let us gather and dry locks of wool, for the saddlers and tapestry-makers, and withes
for the basket and mat manufacturers. From the table of the bountiful God, a thousand crumbs
are falling for us: these we will pick up. They will give thee cheese to thy bread, and a piece
of meat to thy potatoes. Only get to work! I will give thee a little barrow, and a belt for
thy shoulders.'

This was his first essay in business on his own account, and he worked hard and throve well.
His separation from his father taught him how to stand on his own legs--an important piece
of knowledge in a world that is as full of leave-takings as of meetings; and when they did
come together, and the boy counted out his kreutzers, and the father patted him approvingly
on the cheek, that boy would have changed places with no prince that ever sat on a throne.
Jonas was at length apprenticed to a girdler, or worker in metals; and the old tinker in due
time died, leaving his son the parting advice, to 'work, save, and pray,' and a box containing
a thousand guilders.

Jonas's apprenticeship passed on pretty much according to universal rule; that is, he did the
drudgery of the house as well as learned the trade, and received kicks and cuffs from the journeymen.
But in five years his servitude was out, and he was a journeyman himself. He was now, by the
rules of his guild, obliged to travel for improvement; he spent five or six years in going
to and fro upon the earth, and then came back to Altenheim an accomplished girdler. To become
a master, it was necessary to prepare his 'master-piece,' as a specimen of what he could do;
and the task allotted to him was to engrave on copper, without rule or compass, the prince's
family-crest, and then to gild the work richly. This accomplished, he was received into the
guild of masters with much pomp, strange ceremonies, and old-fashioned feasting--all at the
charge of the poor beginner. 'Without reckoning the heavy expenses of his mastership, or of
clothing, linen, and furniture, in the hired lodgings and workshops, no small sum was requisite
for the purchase of different kinds of tools--a lathe, an anvil, crucibles, dies, graving-implements,
steel pins, hammers, chisels, tongs, scissors, &c.; and also for the purchase of brass and
pinchbeck ware, copper, silver, lead, quicksilver, varnish, brimstone, borax, and other things
indispensable for labour. He had also taken, without premium, an apprentice, the child of very
poor people, to help him. He would have been very glad to put the rest of his money out to
interest again; but he had to provide the means of subsistence for at least one year in advance,
for he had to begin with neither wares nor customers.'

Jonas now appears in the character of a lover, and his wooing is one of the most beautiful
pictures in the book. His choice has fallen upon a servant-girl, whom he had known in boyhood.

'One morning, Master Jordan sent his apprentice with a message: "Miss Fenchel was to come to
him directly: he had found a good place for her." Martha hastened thither gladly.

'"Hast thou found a place for me, dear Jonas?" asked she, giving him her hand gracefully. "Thank
God! I began to fear becoming troublesome to our kind friends. Come, tell me where?"

'He looked anxiously into her joyous blue eyes; then, in confusion, down to the ground; then
again upwards to the roof of the room, and round the four sides, as though he were seeking
something lost.

'"Come, tell me, then?" repeated she. "Why art thou silent?"

'He collected himself, and began, hesitating: "It is--but Martha--thou must not be angry with me."

'In surprise, she smiled. "Angry with thee, Jonas! If I would be, and should be, could I be?"

'"Listen, Martha; I will shew thee--I must tell thee--I know a man anxious to have thy heart
and hand--who--even who"----

'"O Jonas, reproach me rather, but do not make mockery of me, a poor maiden!" exclaimed she,
shocked or hurt, while her face lost all its colour, and she turned from him.

'"Martha, look at me. He is assuredly no bad man. I will bring him to thee; I will give him
to thee myself."

'"No, Jonas! no! From thee, least of all, can I receive a lover."

'"From me, least of all!" asked he with visible emotion. "From me, least of all! And if--I
don't know--if I would give thee myself--Look at me, Martha! Tell me."

'Here silence ensued. She stood before him with downcast eyes and glowing cheeks, and played
with her apron-string. Then, as if still doubting, she looked up again, her eyes swimming with
tears, and said, with trembling lips: "What must I say, then?"

'Jonas took courage, and whispered, half aloud: "Dost thou love me with all thy heart?"

'Half aloud, Martha whispered back: "Thy heart knows it."

'"Canst thou be satisfied with dry bread and salt?"

'"Rather salt from thee than tears from me!"

'"Martha, I will work for thee; wilt thou save for me?"

'"I will be sparing in everything, except my own pains!"

'"Well then, darling, here is my hand! Take it. Wilt thou be mine?"

'"Was I not thine eight years ago and more? Even as a child? Yet no! It ought not to be, Jonas."

'Alarmed, he looked in her face, and asked: "Not be? and why?"

'"Think well over it, Jonas! Do thyself no injustice. I am a poor creature, without portion
or property. Any other burgher's daughter in the town would be glad to give thee her hand and
heart, and a good dowry beside. Thou mightst live much better."

'"Say nothing about that," cried Jonas, stretching out both his hands imploringly. "Be still:
I shall feel that I am but beginning to live, if thou wilt promise to live with me."

'"Live, then!" said she, in blushing embarrassment, and gave him her hand.

'He took her hand, and at the same time clasped his bride to his bosom, that heaved with unwonted
emotion. She wept on his breast in silent joy.'

We would fain, if we had room, add to this the marriage sermon, preached by the bridegroom,
and well preached too; for Jonas had knowledge, although, as he said himself, he never found
half so much in books as is lying everywhere about the road.

Martha was just the wife for the honest, sensible hand-worker; and as it frequently happens
with such characters, his affairs prospered from the date of his marriage. He took a larger
house in a better situation for trade; and having presented the useless 'master-piece'--which
nobody would buy--to the prince, he was rewarded by the dignity of 'Master-girdler to the Court.'
But still 'uprightly and hardily the court-girdler lived with his wife, just as before; active
in the workshop and warehouse, at markets and at fairs. Year after year fled, though, before
the last guilder could be paid off, of the debt on the house. Days of joy and of sorrow succeeded
each other in turn. They were all received with gratitude to God--these as well as those.'

We now come hastily to the third generation; for Jonas had a son called Veit, who was first
apprenticed to his father, and then sent to travel as a journeyman. The patriarch had had no
education at all; Jonas had snatched at his just as opportunities permitted; but Veit went
regularly through the brief and practical curriculum fitted for a tradesman's son. He was,
consequently, better informed and more refined than either his father or grandfather; and spent
so much time in gaining a thorough insight into the branches connected with his own business,
that honest Jonas was quite puzzled. 'Where did the boy get all these notions?' said he. 'He
did not get them from me, I'm sure.' Veit had a bad opinion of the travelling custom, and for
these reasons: 'How should these men, most of them badly brought up, attain to any greater
perfection in their business, if they have left home and school without any preparation for
it? No one can understand, if his understanding has not been developed. From one publican they
go to another, and from one workshop to another; everywhere they find the old common track--the
mechanical, mindless life of labour, just as in the very first place to which they were sent
to learn their trade. At most, they acquire dexterity by practice. Now and then they learn
a trick from a master, or get a receipt, which had been cautiously kept secret; when possessed
of this, they think something of themselves. Even the character of these ramblers is not seldom
destroyed by intercourse with their fellows. They learn drinking and rioting, gambling and
licentiousness, caballing and debating. Many are ruined before they return to their native
place. Believe me, dearest father, the time of travel is to very few a true school for life;
one in which, through frequent change of good and evil days, the head acquires experience,
the thoughts strength and clearness, the heart courage, and reliance on God. Very few, even
of those who bring a scientific education with them, can gain much of value for their calling
in life; extend their views, transfer and apply to their own line of business the inventions
and discoveries that have been made in other departments of art and industry.'

Jonas understood little of the refinements of his son, but he opened his eyes when Veit obtained
a lucrative appointment in a large metallic manufactory, first in London and then in Paris.
In a letter informing his parents of this good-fortune, were enclosed the whole of the savings
from his salary. 'Master Jordan shook his head at this passage, and cried out, deeply moved,
yet as though vexed, while a tear of motherly tenderness stole down Martha's cheek: "No! no!
by no means! What is the fool thinking of? He'll want the money himself--a simpleton. Let him
wait till he comes to the master-piece. What pleases me most in the story, is his contentment
and his humility. He is not ashamed of his old silver watch yet. It is not everybody that could
act so. There must be strong legs to support such extraordinary good-luck. These the bursch has!"'

After years of absence, the young man at last walks suddenly into the paternal home, on his
father's birthday, and makes them all scream and weep with joy. '"Hark ye, bursch!" exclaimed
Jonas, who regarded him with fatherly delight, "thou seem'st to me almost too learned, too
refined, and too elegant for Veit Jordan. What turner has cut so neat a piece of furniture
out of so coarse a piece of timber?"' His stay, however, was short. M. and Mme Bellarme (his
employer at Paris) 'had been loth, almost afraid, to let him go. The feeble state of health
of the former began to be so serious, that he durst not engage in the bulk of his affairs.
In the space of a year, both felt so complete confidence in Veit's knowledge of business, and
in his honour, that they had taken him as a partner in trade, and in the foundry. Henceforth,
M. Bellarme contributed his capital only; Veit his knowledge, care, and industry.'

The reform of the guilds, and the establishment of a technological school for the young hand-workers--both
through the instrumentality of Jonas--we have no room to touch; for we must say a parting word
on the reunion of the family by Veit's return permanently from abroad. Notwithstanding the
prosperity of the now old couple, 'everything, ay, everything, was as he had left it years
ago--as he had known it from childhood--only Christiane not. There stood yet the two well-scoured
old deal-tables, wrinkled, though, from the protruding fibres of the wood; there were the straw-bottomed
stools still; and at the window, Mother Martha's arm-chair, before which, as a child, he had
repeated his lessons; there still hung the same little glass between the windows; and the wall-clock
above the stove sent forth its tic-tac as fastly as ever. Father Jonas, in his enlarged workshop,
with more journeymen and apprentices, smelted and hammered, filed and formed still, from morning
to night, as before. The noble housewife flew about yet busy as a bee: she had managed the
housekeeping without a servant since Christiane had been grown up. And Veit came back with
the same cheerful disposition that he had ever shewn. In the simply-furnished rooms which Martha
had fitted up for him, in the upper storey of the house, he forgot the splendid halls, the
boudoirs, and antechambers of London, Paris, and the Bellarme estate; the Gobelin tapestry,
the gold-framed pictures; the convenience of elegant furniture, and the artificial delicacies
of the table on silver-plate.' Assisted by the patronage of the prince, he established a great
foundry in his native town, of ball and cannon, bronze and brass; and on his marriage with
the aforesaid Christiane, the sovereign made him a handsome present, in a handsome manner,
'as a small token of his gratitude to a family that had been so useful to the country.'

In addition to the hand-workers' school, there now arose, under the auspices of this family,
a training-school for teachers, a labour-school for females, and other establishments. The
town was embellished; the land in the neighbourhood rose in value; uncleanliness and barbarism
in food, clothing and houses, disappeared. 'Only old men and women, grown rusty in the habits
and the ignorance of many years, complain that the times are worse; at the sight of a higher
civilisation, they complain of "the luxury and the pride of the world now-a-days;" as superstition
dies out, they complain of "human incredulity, and the downfall of religion." "The day of judgment,"
say they, "is at hand."

'But Master Jonas, when seventy years had silvered his hair, stood almost equal to a strong
man of thirty, happy, indeed, by the side of the pious Martha, in a circle of his children
and children's children, honoured by his fellow-citizens, and honoured by his prince. He often
told the story of his boyhood, how he used to go about hawking with Father Thaddaeus the tinker;
and his face glowed with inward satisfaction, when he compared the former period with present
changes, in the production of which he could never have imagined he was to have so considerable
a share. Then he used to exclaim: "Have I not always said it? Clear understanding only in the
head, love to one's neighbour in the heart, frugality in the stomach, and industry in the fingers--then:
HAND-WORK STANDS ON GOLDEN FEET."'

FOOTNOTES:

[3] Labour Stands on Golden Feet; or, the Life of a Foreign Workman, &c. By Heinrich Zschokke.
London: Groombridge.

LORD ROSSE'S DISCOVERIES.

As Professor Nichol very truly remarks, 'investigation regarding such aggregations is virtually
a branch of atomic and molecular inquiry,' with stars in place of atoms, mighty spheres in
place of 'dust,' 'the firmament above' instead of 'the firmament beneath.' In fact, the astronomer,
in sweeping with his telescopic eye the 'blue depths of ether,' is, as it were, some Lilliputian
inhabitant of an atom prying into the autumnal structure of some Brobdignagian world of saw-dust;
organised into spiral and other elementary forms, of life, it may be, something like our own.
The infinite height appears, in short, like the infinite depth, and we knowing not precisely
where we stand between the two immensities of depth and height! The shapes evolved by the wonderful
telescope of Lord Rosse are, many of them, absolutely fantastical; wonder and awe are mingled
with almost ridiculous feelings in contemplating the strange apparitions--strange monstrosities
we had almost called them--that are pictured on the background of the illustrations. One aggregation
looms forth out of the darkness like the skeleton face of some tremendous mammoth, or other
monstrous denizen of ancient times, with two small fiery eyes, however, gazing out of its great
hollow orbits; another consists of a central nucleus, with arms of stars radiating forth in
all directions, like a star-fish, or like the scattering fire-sparks of some pyrotechnic wheel
revolving; a third resembles a great wisp of straw, or twist or coil of ropes; a fourth, a
cork-screw, or other spiral, seen on end; a fifth, a crab; a sixth, a dumb-bell--many of them
scroll or scrolls of some thin texture seen edgewise; and so on. It is even a suggestion of
the author's, that some of the spiral and armed wheels may be revolving yet in the vast ocean
of space in which they are engulfed. Thus has the telescope traced the 'binding' influences
of the Pleiades, loosened the bands of 'Orion'--erst the chief nebulous hazy wonders, once
and for all revealing its separate stars: and thus, in brief, has this wondrous instrument
'unrolled the heavens as a scroll.' Yet even these astonishing results are as nothing to the
fact, that those fantastic shapes which it has revealed in the depths of this lambo of creation,
are not shapes merely of the present time--that thousands of years have passed since the light
that shewed them left the starry firmaments only now revealed--that the telescope, in short,
in reflecting these astonishing shapes, deliver to the eye of mind turned inward on the long-stored
records of a universal and eternal memory of the past, than to a mere eye of sense looking
outward on the things of passing time!--The Builder.

SOUTH-AFRICAN REPTILES.

I was going quietly to bed one evening, wearied by a long day's hunting, when, close to my
feet, and by my bedside, some glittering substance caught my eye. I stooped to pick it up;
but, ere my hand had quite reached it, the truth flashed across me--it was a snake! Had I followed
my first natural impulse, I should have sprung away, but not being able clearly to see in what
position the reptile was lying, or which way his head was pointed, I controlled myself, and
remained rooted breathless to the spot. Straining my eyes, but moving not an inch, I at length
clearly distinguished a huge puff-adder, the most deadly snake in the colony, whose bite would
have sent me to the other world in an hour or two. I watched him in silent horror: his head
was from me--so much the worse; for this snake, unlike any other, always rises and strikes
back. He did not move; he was asleep. Not daring to shuffle my feet, lest he should awake and
spring at me, I took a jump backwards, that would have done honour to a gymnastic master, and
thus darted outside the door of the room. With a thick stick, I then returned and settled his
worship. Some parts of South Africa swarm with snakes; none are free from them. I have known
three men killed by them in one harvest on a farm in Oliphant's Hoek. There is an immense variety
of them, the deadliest being the puff-adder, a thick and comparatively short snake. Its bite
will kill occasionally within an hour. One of my friends lost a favourite and valuable horse
by its bite, in less than two hours after the attack. It is a sluggish reptile, and therefore
more dangerous; for, instead of rushing away, like its fellows, at the sound of approaching
footsteps, it half raises its head and hisses. Often have I come to a sudden pull-up on foot
and on horseback, on hearing their dreaded warning! There is also the cobra-capello, nearly
as dangerous, several black snakes, and the boem-slang, or tree-snake, less deadly, one of
which I once shot seven feet long. The Cape is also infested by scorpions, whose sting is little
less virulent than a snake-bite; and by the spider called the tarantula, which is extremely
dreaded.--The Cape, by A. W. Cole.

LINES.

  Ask me not with simple grace,
    Pearls of thought to string for thee;
  For upon thy smiling face,
    Perfect gems I see--
  In thine eyes of beauty trace
    Lights that fadeless be.

  Bid me not from Memory's land,
    Cull fair flowers of rich perfume;
  Love will shew with trembling hand,
    Where far fairer bloom--
  Clustering on thy cheek they stand,
    Blushing deep--for whom?

  Bid me not with Fancy's gale
    Wake the music of a sigh;
  From thy breath a sweeter tale,
    Silver-winged, floats by;
  Melodies that never fail,
    Heard when thou art nigh!

  Ask me not--yet, oh! for thee
    Dearer thoughts my bosom fill,
  Dimmed with tears I cannot see
    To do thy gracious will:
  Take, then, my prayer--In heaven may we
    Behold thee lovelier still!

                                      PERCIE.

ILLUSTRATIONS OF EXTREME MINUTENESS.