THE HISTORY OF ENGLAND

FROM THE ACCESSION OF HENRY III. TO THE DEATH OF EDWARD III. (1216-1377)

BY T.F. TOUT, M.A. Professor of Mediæval and Modern History in the University of Manchester.

CHAPTER I.

THE REGENCY OF WILLIAM MARSHAL.

  19 Oct., 1216. Death of King John
                 Position of parties
                 The Church on the king's side
         28 Oct. Coronation of Henry III
         11 Nov. Great council at Bristol
         12 Nov. The first charter of Henry III
        1216-17. Progress of the war
           1217. Rising of Wilkin of the Weald
                 Louis' visit to France
       22 April. Return of Louis from France
                 Sieges of Dover, Farnham, and Mount Sorrel
         20 May. The fair of Lincoln
         23 Aug. The sea-fight off Sandwich
        11 Sept. Treaty of Lambeth
          6 Nov. Reissue of the great charter
                 Restoration of order by William Marshal
   14 May, 1219. Death of William Marshal
                 His character and career

CHAPTER II.

THE RULE OF HUBERT DE BURGH.

           1219. Pandulf the real successor of William Marshal
     July, 1221. Langton procures Pandulf's recall
                 Ascendency of Hubert de Burgh
Jan.-Feb., 1221. The rebellion of Albemarle
     July, 1222. The sedition of Constantine FitzAthulf
        1221-24. Marriage alliances
        1219-23. War in Wales
    April, 1223. Henry III. declared by the pope competent to govern
     June, 1224. Revolt of Falkes de Bréauté
 20 June-14 Aug. Siege of Bedford
                 Fall of Falkes
                 Papal and royal taxation
    April, 1227. End of the minority
                 Relations with France during the minority
                 The Lusignans and the Poitevin barons
           1224. Louis VIII.'s conquest of Poitou
           1225. Expedition of Richard of Cornwall and William
                     Longsword to Gascony
     Nov., 1226. Accession of Louis IX. in France
        1229-30. Henry III.'s campaign in Brittany and Poitou
21-30 July, 1230. Siege of Mirambeau
           1228. The Kerry campaign
    2 May, 1230. Death of William of Braose
           1231. Henry III.'s second Welsh campaign
            Aug. Death of Archbishop Richard le Grand
                 Gregory IX. and Henry III.
           1232. Riots of Robert Twenge
        29 July. Fall of Hubert de Burgh
           1231. Death of William Marshal the Younger
           1232. Death of Randolph of Blundeville, Earl of Chester

CHAPTER III.

THE ALIEN INVASION.

        1232-34. Rule of Peter des Roches
     Aug., 1233. Revolt of Richard Marshal
         23 Nov. Fight near Monmouth
           1234. Richard Marshal in Ireland
        1 April. Defeat and death of the Earl Marshal near Kildare
        2 April. Edmund Rich consecrated Archbishop of Canterbury
        9 April. Fall of Peter des Roches
                 Beginning of Henry III.'s personal government
                 Character of Henry III.
                 The alien invasions
  14 Jan., 1236. Henry's marriage to Eleanor of Provence
                 The Savoyards in England
                 Revival of Poitevin influence
           1239. Simon of Montfort Earl of Leicester
           1237. The legation of Cardinal Otto
           1239. Quarrel of Gregory IX. and Frederick II.
           1235. Robert Grosseteste, Bishop of Lincoln
  16 Nov., 1240. Death of Edmund Rich in exile
                 Henry III. and Frederick II.
                 Attempted reconquest of Poitou
May-Sept., 1242. The campaign of Taillebourg
           1243. Truce with France
                 The Lusignans in England
                 The baronial opposition
                 Grosseteste's opposition to Henry III., and Innocent IV.
           1243. Relations with Scotland and Wales
           1240. Death of Llewelyn ap Iorwerth
           1246. Death of David ap Llewelyn

CHAPTER IV.

POLITICAL RETROGRESSION and NATIONAL PROGRESS.

        1248-58. Characteristics of the history of these ten years
                 Decay of Henry's power in Gascony
        1248-52. Simon de Montfort, seneschal of Gascony
     Aug., 1253. Henry III. in Gascony
           1254. Marriage and establishment of Edward the king's son
                 Edward's position in Gascony
                 Edward's position in Cheshire
           1254. Llewelyn ap Griffith sole Prince of North Wales
                 Edward in the four cantreds and in West Wales
           1257. Welsh campaign of Henry and Edward
                 Revival of the baronial opposition
           1255. Candidature of Edmund, the king's son, for Sicily
           1257. Richard of Cornwall elected and crowned King of the Romans
                 Leicester as leader of the opposition
                 Progress in the age of Henry III
                 The cosmopolitan and the national ideals
                 French influence
                 The coming of the friars
           1221. Gilbert of Freynet and the first Dominicans in England
           1224. Arrival of Agnellus of Pisa and the first Franciscans
                 in England
                 Other mendicant orders in England
                 The influence of the friars
                 The universities
                 Prominent English schoolmen
                 Paris and Oxford
                 The mendicants at Oxford
                 Roger Bacon and Duns Scotus
                 Academic influence in public life
                 Beginnings of colleges
                 Intellectual characteristics of thirteenth century
                 Literature in Latin and French
                 Literature in English
                 Art
                 Gothic architecture
                 The towns and trade

CHAPTER V.

THE BARONS' WAR.

  2 April, 1258. Parliament at London
        11 June. The Mad Parliament
                 The Provisions of Oxford
        22 June. Flight of the Lusignans
                 Appointment of the Fifteen
                 Working of the new Constitution
   4 Dec., 1259. Treaty of Paris
                 Its unpopularity in England and France
           1259. Dissensions among the baronial leaders
           1259. Provisions of Westminster
           1261. Henry III.'s repudiation of the Provisions
           1263. Reconstitution of parties
                 The changed policy of the marchers
                 Outbreak of civil war
                 The appeal to Louis IX
  23 Jan., 1264. Mise of Amiens
                 Renewal of the struggle
        4 April. Sack of Northampton
                 The campaign in Kent and Sussex
        14 May.  Battle of Lewes
                 Personal triumph of Montfort

CHAPTER VI.

THE RULE OF MONTFORT AND THE ROYALIST RESTORATION.

         15 May. Mise of Lewes
         15 Dec. Provisions of Worcester
Jan.-Mar., 1265. The Parliament of 1265
                 Split up of the baronial party
                 Quarrel of Leicester and Gloucester
         28 May. Edward's escape
        22 June. Treaty of Pipton
                 Small results of the alliance of Llewelyn and the barons
                 The campaign in the Severn valley
         4 Aug.  Battle of Evesham
                 The royalist restoration
         1266.   The revolt of the Disinherited
         15 May. Battle of Chesterfield
         31 Oct. The Dictum de Kenilworth
     Michaelmas. The Ely rebellion
    April, 1267. Gloucester's support of the Disinherited
         July.   End of the rebellion
        25 Sept. Treaty of Shrewsbury
        1267.    Statute of Marlborough
        1270-72. Edward's Crusade
        16 Nov., 1272. Death of Henry III

CHAPTER VII.

THE EARLY FOREIGN POLICY AND LEGISLATION OF EDWARD I.

                 Character of Edward I.
        1272-74. Rule of the regency
                 Edward's doings in Italy and France
                 Edward's relations with Philip III.
        1273-74. Wars of Béarn and Limoges
                 Edward I. and Gregory X.
 May-July, 1274. Council of Lyons
                 Relations of Edward I. and Rudolf of Hapsburg
   23 May, 1279. Treaty of Amiens
           1281. League of Macon
           1282. Sicilian vespers
           1285. Deaths of Philip III., Charles of Anjou, Peter of
                     Aragon, and Martin IV.
                 Bishop Burnell
           1275. Statute of Westminster, the first
           1278. Statute of Gloucester
                 Hundred Rolls and placita de quo warranto
                 Archbishops Kilwardby and Peckham
           1279. Statute of Mortmain
           1285. Circumspecte agatis
           1285. Statute of Westminster, the second (De Donis)
           1285. Statute of Winchester

CHAPTER VIII.

THE CONQUEST OF NORTH WALES.

                 Execution of the Treaty of Shrewsbury
                 Llewelyn's refusal of homage
           1277. Edward's first Welsh campaign
           1277. Treaty of Aberconway
                 Edward's attempts to introduce English law into the
                     ceded districts
           1282. The Welsh revolt
           1282. Edward's second Welsh campaign
                 Llewelyn's escape to the Upper Wye
         11 Dec. Battle of Orewyn Bridge
           1283. Parliaments and financial expedients
                 Subjection of Gwynedd completed
          3 Oct. Parliament of Shrewsbury and execution of David
                 The Edwardian castles
 Mid-Lent, 1284. Statute of Wales
                 Effect of the conquest upon the march
                 Peckham and the ecclesiastical settlement of Wales
           1287. Revolt of Rhys ap Meredith

CHAPTER IX.

THE SICILIAN AND THE SCOTTISH ARBITRATIONS.

                 Edward I. at the height of his fame
April, 1286-Aug 1289, Edward's long visit to France
           1289. The Sicilian arbitration
           1287. Treaty of Oloron
           1288. Treaty of Canfranc
           1291. Treaty of Tarascon
                 Maladministration during Edward's absence
                 Judicial and official scandals
           1289. Special commission for the trial of offenders
           1290. Statute of Westminster, the third (Quia emptores)
                 The feud between Gloucester and Hereford
           1291. The courts at Ystradvellte and Abergavenny
                 Humiliation of the marcher earls
           1290. Expulsion of the Jews
                 The rise of the Italian bankers
        1272-86. Early relations of Edward to Scotland
           1286. Death of Alexander III. of Scotland
        1286-89. Regency in the name of the Maid of Norway
           1289. Treaty of Salisbury
           1290. Treaty of Brigham
                 Death of the Maid of Norway
                 The claimants to the Scottish throne
      May, 1291. Parliament of Norham. Edward recognised as overlord
                 of Scotland
        1291-92. The great suit for Scotland
  17 Nov., 1292. John Balliol declared King of Scots
                 Edward's conduct in relation to Scotland
           1290. Death of Eleanor of Castile
                 Transition to the later years of the reign
                 Edward's later ministers

CHAPTER X.

THE FRENCH AND SCOTTISH WARS AND THE CONFIRMATION OF THE CHARTERS.

                 Commercial rivalry of English and French seamen
   15 May, 1293. Battle off Saint-Mahé
           1294. Edmund of Lancaster's failure to procure a settlement
                     with Philip IV.
                 The French occupation of Gascony
     June, 1294. War with France
                 Preparations for a French campaign
           1294. Revolts of Madog, Maelgwn, and Morgan
                 Edward's danger at Aberconway
  22 Jan., 1293. Battle of Maes Madog
           July. Welsh revolts suppressed
           1295. Failure of the Gascon campaign
                 Failure of attempted coalition against France
                 Organisation of the English navy
                 Treason of Sir Thomas Turberville
                 The naval attack on England
                 Rupture between Edward and the Scots
         5 July. Alliance between the French and Scots
            Nov. The "Model Parliament"
         1296.   Gascon expedition and death of Edmund of Lancaster
                 Edward's invasion of Scotland
       27 April. Battle of Dunbar
        10 July. Submission of John Balliol
                 Conquest and administration of Scotland
                 The Ragman Roll
    Sept., 1294. Consecration of Archbishop Winchelsea
  29 Feb., 1296. Boniface VIII. issues Clericis laicos.
                 Conflict of Edward and Winchelsea
  24 Feb., 1297. Parliament at Salisbury
                 Conflict of Edward with the earls
           July. Break up of the clerical opposition
                 Increasing moderation of baronial opposition
        24 Aug.  Edward's departure for Flanders
            May. Revolt of the Scots under William Wallace.
        11 Sept. Battle of Stirling Bridge.
         12 Oct. Confirmation of the charters with new clauses.

CHAPTER XI.

THE SCOTTISH FAILURE.

           1297. Edward's unsuccessful campaign in Flanders
  31 Jan., 1298. Truce of Tournai, and end of the French war
           July. Edward's invasion of Scotland
        22 July. Battle of Falkirk
                 Slowness of Edward's progress towards the conquest
                     of Scotland
  19 June, 1299. Treaty of Montreuil
         9 Sept. Marriage of Edward and Margaret of France
     Mar., 1300. Articuli super cartas
       July-Aug. Carlaverock campaign
20 Jan.-14 Feb., 1301. Parliament of Lincoln
                 The barons' letter to the pope
                 Edward of Carnarvon, Prince of Wales
           1302. Philip IV.'s troubles with the Flemings and Boniface VIII
   20 May, 1303. Peace of Paris between Edward and Philip
                 Increasing strength of Edward's position
                 The decay of the earldoms
                 Additions to the royal demesne
           1303. Conquest of Scotland seriously undertaken
  24 July, 1304. Capture of Stirling
     Aug., 1305. Execution of Wallace and completion of the conquest
                 The settlement of the government of Scotland
           1305. Disgrace of Winchelsea and Bek
                 Edward I. and Clement V.
           1307. Statute of Carlisle
           1305. Ordinance of Trailbaston
  10 Jan., 1306. Murder of Comyn
                 Rising of Robert Bruce
         25 Mar. Bruce crowned King of Scots
                 Preparations for a fresh conquest of Scotland
  7 July, 1307.  Death of Edward I.

CHAPTER XII.

GAVESTON, THE ORDAINERS, AND BANNOCKBURN.

                 Character of Edward II.
          1307.  Peter Gaveston Earl of Cornwall
  25 Jan., 1308. Marriage of Edward with Isabella of France
         25 Feb. Coronation of Edward II.
                 Power and unpopularity of Gaveston
          8 May. Gaveston exiled
      July 1309. Return of Gaveston condoned by Parliament at Stamford
           1310. Renewal of the opposition of the barons to Gaveston
         16 Mar. Appointment of the lords ordainers
           Sept. Abortive campaign against the Scots
                 Character and policy of Thomas, Earl of Lancaster
           1311. The ordinances
Nov., 1311, Jan., 1312. Gaveston's second exile and return
                 The earls at war against Edward and Gaveston
                 Gaveston's surrender at Scarborough
  19 June, 1312. Murder of Gaveston
                 Consequent break up of the baronial party
     Oct., 1313. Edward and Lancaster reconciled
           May.  Death of Archbishop Winchelsea
           1312. Fall of the Templars
                 Walter Reynolds Archbishop of Canterbury
                 Complaints of papal abuses
                 Progress of Bruce's power in Scotland
           1314. The siege of Stirling
                 An army collected for its relief
        24 June, Battle of Bannockburn
                 The results of the battle

CHAPTER XIII.

LANCASTER, PEMBROKE, AND THE DESPENSERS.

                 Failure of the rule of Thomas of Lancaster
           1315. Revolts of Llewelyn Bren
           1315. Rising of Adam Banaster.
           1316. The Bristol disturbances.
           1315. Edward Bruce's attack on the English in Ireland.
           1317. Roger Mortimer in Ireland.
           1318. Death of Edward Bruce at Dundalk.
                 Lancaster's failure and the break up of his party.
                 Pembroke and the middle party.
          9 Aug. Treaty of Leek and the supremacy of the middle party.
        1314-18. Progress of Robert Bruce.
           1319. Renewed attack on Scotland.
                 Battle of Myton.
                 Rise of the Despensers.
           1317. The partition of the Gloucester inheritance.
           1320. War between the husbands of the Gloucester heiresses
                     in South Wales.
     June, 1321. Conferences at Pontefract and Sherburn.
           July. The exile of the Despensers.
                 Break up of the opposition after their victory.
23-31 Oct., 1321. The siege of Leeds Castle.
Jan.-Feb., 1322. Edward's successful campaign in the march.
         11 Feb. Recall of the Despensers.
                 The king's march against the northern barons.
         16 Mar. Battle of Boroughbridge.
         22 Mar. Execution of Lancaster.
          2 May. Parliament at York and repeal of the ordinances.
                 The triumph of the Despensers.

CHAPTER XIV.

THE FALL OF EDWARD II. AND THE RULE OF ISABELLA AND MORTIMER.

            Aug. Renewed attack on the Scots.
            Oct. Edward II.'s narrow escape at Byland.
     Mar., 1323. Treason and execution of Andrew Harclay.
                 Incapacity of the Despensers as administrators.
                 Their quarrels with the old nobles.
           1324. Their breach with Queen Isabella.
                 Their chief helpers: Walter Stapledon and Ralph Baldock.
                 Reaction against the Despensers.
        1303-14. Relations of England and France.
        1314-22. Edward's dealings with Louis X. and Philip V.
           1322. Accession of Charles IV.
           1324. Affair of Saint-Sardos.
                 Renewal of war. Sequestration of Gascony. Charles
                     of Valois' conquest of the Agenais and La Réole.
                 Isabella's mission to Paris.
                 Edward of Aquitaine's homage to Charles IV.
           1325. Treachery of Charles IV. and second sequestration of
                     Gascony.
           1326. Relations of Mortimer and Isabella
                 The Hainault marriage
        23 Sept. Landing of Isabella and Mortimer
                 Riots in London: murder of Stapledon
         26 Oct. Execution of the elder Despenser
         16 Nov. Capture of Edward and the younger Despenser
                 Triumph of the revolution
   7 Jan., 1327. Parliament's recognition of Edward of Aquitaine as king
         20 Jan. Edward II.'s resignation of the crown
         24 Jan. Proclamation of Edward III.
 22 Sept., 1328. Murder of Edward II.
        1327-30. Rule of Isabella and Mortimer
           1327. Abortive Scottish campaign
    April, 1328. Treaty of Northampton; "the shameful peace"
                 Character and ambition of Mortimer
            Oct. Mortimer Earl of the March of Wales
                 Henry of Lancaster's opposition to him
     Mar., 1330. Execution of the Earl of Kent
            Oct. Parliament at Nottingham
         19 Oct. Arrest of Mortimer
         29 Nov. His execution
        1330-58. Later life of Isabella

CHAPTER XV.

THE PRELIMINARIES OF THE HUNDRED YEARS' WAR.

                 Character and policy of Edward III.
        1330-40. The rule of the Stratfords
           1337. The new earldoms
                 Scotland during the minority of David Bruce
                 Edward Balliol and the Disinherited
   6 Aug., 1332. The Disinherited in Scotland
                 Battle of Dupplin Moor
  6 Aug.-16 Dec. Edward Balliol's brief reign and expulsion
                 Treaty of Roxburgh
           1333. Attempt to procure his restoration
                 Siege of Berwick
        19 July. Battle of Halidon Hill
                 Edward Balliol restored
  12 June, 1334. Treaty of Newcastle, ceding to Edward south-eastern
                     Scotland
                 Failure of Edward Balliol
        1334-36. Edward III.'s Scottish campaigns
           1341. Return of David Bruce from France
        1327-37. Relations of England and France
  31 Mar., 1327. Treaty of Paris
                 Edward's lands in Gascony after the treaty of Paris
           1328. Accession of Philip of Valois in France
                 Protests of the English regency
           1328. The legal and political aspects of the succession
                     question
                 Edward III.'s claim to France
   6 June, 1329. Edward's homage to Philip VI.
    8 May, 1330. Convention of the Wood of Vincennes
   9 Mar., 1331. Treaty of Saint-Germain-en-Laye
          April. Interview of Pont-Sainte-Maxence
                 Crusading projects of John XXII.
           1336. Abandonment of the crusade by Benedict XII
                 Strained relations between England and France
           1337. Mission of the Cardinals Peter and Bertrand
                 Edward and Robert of Artois
                 The Vow of the Heron
                 Preparations for war
                 Breach with Flanders and stoppage of export of wool
                 Alliance with William I. and II. of Hainault
                 Edward's other Netherlandish allies
           1337. Breach between France and England
            Nov. Sir Walter Manny at Cadzand
                 Fruitless negotiations and further hostilities
     July, 1338. Edward III.'s departure for Flanders
         5 Sept. Interview of Edward and the Emperor Louis of
                 Bavaria at Coblenz
                 The Anglo-imperial alliance
                 Further fruitless negotiations
                 Renewal of Edward's claim to the French crown
                 The responsibility for the war

CHAPTER XVI.

THE EARLY CAMPAIGNS OF THE HUNDRED YEARS' WAR.

           1339. Edward's invasion of France
            Oct. Campaign of the Thiérache
         23 Oct. The failure at Buironfosse
                 Alliance between Edward and the Flemish cities
                 James van Artevelde
     Jan., 1340. Edward III. at Ghent
                 His proclamation as King of France
         20 Feb. His return to England
        22 June. His re-embarkation for Flanders
                 Parallel naval development of England and France
                 The Norman navy and the projected invasion of
                     England
        24 June. Battle of Sluys
                 Ineffective campaigns in Artois and the Tournaisis
        25 Sept. Truce of Esplechin
         30 Nov. Edward's return to London
                 The ministers displaced and a special commission
                     appointed to try them
         30 Nov. Controversy between Edward and Archbishop Stratford.
 23 April, 1341. Parliament at London supporting Stratford and forcing
                 Edward to choose ministers after consulting it.
          1 Oct. Edward's repudiation of his concessions.
    April, 1343. Repeal of the statutes of 1341.
                 John of Montfort and Charles of Blois claim the
                     duchy of Brittany.
                 War of the Breton succession.
     June, 1342. The siege of Hennebont raised.
           1343. Battle of Morlaix.
  19 Jan., 1343. Edward III. in Brittany.
                 Truce of Malestroit.
                 Edward's financial and political troubles.
                 End of the Flemish alliance.
     June, 1345. Henry of Derby in Gascony.
         21 Oct. Battle of Auberoche.
           1346. Siege of Aiguillon and raid in Poitou.
                 Preparations for Edward III.'s campaign.
       July-Aug. The march through Normandy.
        26 July. Capture of Caen.
            Aug. The march up the Seine valley.
                 The retreat northwards.
                 The passage of the Somme at the Blanche taque.
         26 Aug. Battle of Crecy.
         17 Oct. Battle of Neville's Cross.
         4 Sept. Siege of Calais.
   3 Aug., 1347. Capture of Calais.
        20 June. Battle of La Roche Derien.
        28 Sept. Truce of Calais.

CHAPTER XVII.

FROM THE BLACK DEATH TO THE TREATY OF CALAIS.

        1347-48. Prosperity of England after the truce.
        1348-50. The Black Death and its results.
           1351. Statute of labourers.
                 Social and economic unrest.
                 Religious unrest.
                 The Flagellants.
                 The anti-clerical movement.
           1351. First statute of provisors.
           1353. First statute of præmunire.
                 Richard Fitzralph and the attack on the mendicants.
           1354. Ordinance Of the Staple.
           1352. Statute of treasons.
           1349. Foundation of the Order of the Garter.
                 Dagworth's administration of Brittany.
                 Hugh Calveley and Robert Knowles.
  27 Mar., 1351. Battle of the Thirty.
           1352. Battle of Mauron
                 Fighting round Calais
           1352. Capture of Guînes
  29 Aug., 1350. Battle of the Spaniards-on-the-sea
  6 April, 1354. Preliminaries of peace signed at Guînes
           1355. Failure of the negotiations and renewal of the war
                 Failure of John of Gaunt in Normandy
      Sept.-Nov. Black Prince's raid in Languedoc
           1356. Operations of John of Gaunt in Normandy in alliance
                     with Charles of Navarre and Geoffrey of Harcourt
   9 Aug.-2 Oct. Black Prince's raid northwards to the Loire
        19 Sept. Battle of Poitiers.
  23 Mar., 1357. Truce of Bordeaux
            Oct. Treaty of Berwick
        1357-71. The last years of David II.
           1371. Accession of Robert II. in Scotland
           1358. Preliminaries of peace signed between Edward III.
                     and John
                 State of France after Poitiers
  24 Mar., 1359. Treaty of London
                 The rejection of the treaty by the French
Nov., 1359-April, 1360. Edward III.'s invasion of Northern France
                     Champagne and Burgundy
  11 Jan., 1360. Treaty of Guillon
        7 April. Siege of Paris
          8 May. Treaty of Brétigni
         24 Oct. Treaty of Calais

CHAPTER XVIII.

THE HUNDRED YEARS' WAR FROM THE TREATY OF CALAIS TO THE TRUCE OF BRUGES.

                 Difficulties in carrying out the treaty of Calais
                 Guerilla warfare: exploits of Calveley, Pipe, and
                      Jowel
   16 May, 1364. Battle of Cocherel
        29 Sept. Battle of Auray
           1365. Treaty of Guérande
                 Exploits of the free companies: John Hawkwood
           1361. The charters of renunciation not exchanged
           1364. Death of King John: accession of Charles V.
           1366. Expulsion of Peter the Cruel from Castile by Du
                     Guesclin and the free companies
     Feb., 1367. The Black Prince's expedition to Spain
        3 April. Battle of Nájera
                 The Black Prince's rule in Aquitaine
                 His difficulties with the great nobles
     Jan., 1368. The hearth tax imposed
     Jan., 1369. Renewal of the war.
                 Changed military and political conditions.
                 Relations of England and Flanders.
           1371. Battle in Bourgneuf Bay.
                 Successes of the French.
    Sept., 1370. Sack of the cité of Limoges.
           1371. The Black Prince's return to England with shattered
                     health.
           1370. Futile expeditions of Lancaster and Knowles.
                 Treason of Sir John Minsterworth.
                 Battle of Pontvallain.
        1370-72. Exploits of Sir Owen of Wales.
  23 June, 1370. Defeat of Pembroke at La Rochelle.
            Aug. Defeat of Thomas Percy at Soubise.
           1372. Edward III.'s last military expedition.
                 Expulsion of the English from Poitou and Brittany.
July-Dec., 1373. John of Gaunt's march from Calais to Bordeaux.
           1374. Ruin of the English power in France.
  27 June, 1375. Truce of Bruges.

CHAPTER XIX.

ENGLAND DURING THE LATTER YEARS OF EDWARD III.

                 Glories of the years succeeding the treaty of Calais.
        1361-69. John Froissart in England.
                 His picture of the life of court and people.
                 The national spirit in English literature.
                 Gower and Minot.
                 Geoffrey Chaucer.
                 The standard English language.
                 Lowland Scottish.
                 The national spirit in art.
                 "Flowing decorated" and "perpendicular" architecture.
                 Contrast between England and Scotland.
                 The national spirit in popular English literature.
                 William Langland.
                 His picture of the condition of the poor.
                 The national spirit and the universities.
                 Early career of John Wycliffe.
                 Spread of cultivation among the laity.
                 The national spirit in English law.
                 The national spirit in commerce.
                 Edward III.'s family settlement.
                 Marriage of the Black Prince and Joan of Kent.
                 Marriages of Lionel of Antwerp with Elizabeth de
                     Burgh and Violante Visconti.
                 Lionel in Ireland.
                 Statute of Kilkenny.
        1361-69. Philippa of Clarence's marriage with the Earl of
                     March.
                 John of Gaunt and the Duchy of Lancaster.
                 Continuation of ancient rivalries between houses now
                     represented by branches of the royal family.
                 The great prelates of the end of Edward III.'s reign.
     Feb., 1371. Parliament: clerical ministers superseded by laymen.
                 Clerical and anti-clerical, constitutional and court
                     parties.
                 Edward III.'s dotage.
                 Alice Perrers.
                 Struggle of parties at court.
                 Increasing bitterness of the opposition to the courtiers.
April-July, 1376. The "Good Parliament".
                 Fall of the courtiers.
         8 June. Death of the Black Prince.
                 John of Gaunt restored to power.
     Jan., 1377. Packed parliament, and the reaction against the Good
                     Parliament.
                 Persistence of the clerical opposition.
                 The attack on John Wycliffe.
         10 Feb. Wycliffe before Bishop Courtenay.
                 John of Gaunt's substantial triumph.
        21 June. Death of Edward III.
                 Characteristics of his age.

APPENDIX.

ON AUTHORITIES.

(1216-1377.)

Comparative value of records and chronicles.
Record sources for the period.
Chancery Records:--
  Patent Rolls
  Close Rolls
  Rolls of Parliament
  Charter Rolls
  Inquests Post-Mortem
  Fine Rolls
  Gascon Rolls
  Hundred Rolls
Exchequer Records
Plea Rolls and records of the common law courts
Records of local courts
Scotch and Irish records
Ecclesiastical records
  Bishops' registers
  Monastic Cartularies
  Papal records
Chroniclers of the period.
St. Alban's Abbey as a school of history.
Matthew Paris.
Later St. Alban's chroniclers.
Other chroniclers of Henry III.
Other monastic annals.
Chroniclers of Edward I.
Civic chronicles.
Chroniclers of Edward II.
Chroniclers of Edward III.
Scottish and Welsh chronicles.
French chronicles illustrating English history.
The three redactions of Froissart.
Other French chroniclers of the Hundred Years' War.
Legal literature.
Literary aids to history.
Modern works on the period.
Maps.
Bibliographies.
Note on authorities for battle of Poitiers.

INDEX.

MAPS.
(At the End of the Volume)
1. Map of Wales and the March at the end of the XIIIth century.
2. Map of Southern Scotland and Northern England in the XIIIth and
   XIVth centuries.
3. Map of France in the XIIIth and XIVth centuries.

CHAPTER I.

THE REGENCY OF WILLIAM MARSHAL.

When John died, on October 19, 1216, the issue of the war between him and the barons was still
doubtful. The arrival of Louis of France, eldest son of King Philip Augustus, had enabled the
barons to win back much of the ground lost after John's early triumphs had forced them to call
in the foreigner. Beyond the Humber the sturdy north-country barons, who had wrested the Great
Charter from John, remained true to their principles, and had also the support of Alexander
II., King of Scots. The magnates of the eastern counties were as staunch as the northerners,
and the rich and populous southern shires were for the most part in agreement with them. In
the west, the barons had the aid of Llewelyn ap Iorwerth, the great Prince of North Wales.
While ten earls fought for Louis, the royal cause was only upheld by six. The towns were mainly
with the rebels, notably London and the Cinque Ports, and cities so distant as Winchester and
Lincoln, Worcester and Carlisle. Yet the baronial cause excited little general sympathy. The
mass of the population stood aloof, and was impartially maltreated by the rival armies.

John's son Henry had at his back the chief military resources of the country; the two strongest
of the earls, William Marshal, Earl of Pembroke, and Randolph of Blundeville, Earl of Chester;
the fierce lords of the Welsh March, the Mortimers, the Cantilupes, the Cliffords, the Braoses,
and the Lacys; and the barons of the West Midlands, headed by Henry of Neufbourg, Earl of Warwick,
and William of Ferrars, Earl of Derby. This powerful phalanx gave to the royalists a stronger
hold in the west than their opponents had in any one part of the much wider territory within
their sphere of influence. There was no baronial counterpart to the successful raiding of the
north and east, which John had carried through in the last months of his life. A baronial centre,
like Worcester, could not hold its own long in the west. Moreover, John had not entirely forfeited
his hereditary advantages. The administrative families, whose chief representative was the
justiciar Hubert de Burgh, held to their tradition of unswerving loyalty, and joined with the
followers of the old king, of whom William Marshal was the chief survivor. All over England
the royal castles were in safe hands, and so long as they remained unsubdued, no part of Louis'
dominions was secure. The crown had used to the full its rights over minors and vacant fiefs.
The subjection of the south-west was assured by the marriage of the mercenary leader, Falkes
de Bréauté, to the mother of the infant Earl of Devon, and by the grant of Cornwall to the
bastard of the last of the Dunstanville earls. Though Isabella, Countess of Gloucester, John's
repudiated wife, was as zealous as her new husband, the Earl of Essex, against John's son,
Falkes kept a tight hand over Glamorgan, on which the military power of the house of Gloucester
largely depended. Randolph of Chester was custodian of the earldoms of Leicester and Richmond,
of which the nominal earls, Simon de Montfort and Peter Mauclerc, were far away, the one ruling
Toulouse, and the other Brittany. The band of foreign adventurers, the mainstay of John's power,
was still unbroken. Ruffians though these hirelings were, they had experience, skill, and courage,
and were the only professional soldiers in the country.

The vital fact of the situation was that the immense moral and spiritual forces of the Church
remained on the side of the king. Innocent III. had died some months before John, but his successor,
Honorius III., continued to uphold his policy. The papal legate, the Cardinal Gualo, was the
soul of the royalist cause. Louis and his adherents had been excommunicated, and not a single
English bishop dared to join openly the foes of Holy Church. The most that the clerical partisans
of the barons could do was to disregard the interdict and continue their ministrations to the
excommunicated host. The strongest English prelate, Stephen Langton, Archbishop of Canterbury,
was at Rome in disgrace. Walter Grey, Archbishop of York, and Hugh of Wells, Bishop of Lincoln,
were also abroad, while the Bishop of London, William of Sainte-Mère-Eglise, was incapacitated
by illness. Several important sees, including Durham and Ely, were vacant. The ablest resident
bishop, Peter des Roches of Winchester, was an accomplice in John's misgovernment.

The chief obstacle in the way of the royalists had been the character of John, and the little
Henry of Winchester could have had no share in the crimes of his father. But the dead king
had lately shown such rare energy that there was a danger lest the accession of a boy of nine
might not weaken the cause of monarchy. The barons were largely out of hand. The war was assuming
the character of the civil war of Stephen's days, and John's mercenaries were aspiring to play
the part of feudal potentates. It was significant that so many of John's principal supporters
were possessors of extensive franchises, like the lords of the Welsh March, who might well
desire to extend these feudal immunities to their English estates. The triumph of the crown
through such help might easily have resolved the united England of Henry II. into a series
of lordships under a nominal king.

The situation was saved by the wisdom and moderation of the papal legate, and the loyalty of
William Marshal, who forgot his interests as Earl of Pembroke in his devotion to the house
of Anjou. From the moment of John's death at Newark, the cardinal and the marshal took the
lead. They met at Worcester, where the tyrant was buried, and at once made preparations for
the coronation of Henry of Winchester. The ceremony took place at St. Peter's Abbey, Gloucester,
on October 28, from which day the new reign was reckoned as beginning. The marshal, who had
forty-three years before dubbed the "young king" Henry a knight, then for a second time admitted
a young king Henry to the order of chivalry. When the king had recited the coronation oath
and performed homage to the pope, Gualo anointed him and placed on his head the plain gold
circlet that perforce did duly for a crown.[1] Next day Henry's leading supporters performed
homage, and before November 1 the marshal was made justiciar.

    [1] There is some conflict of evidence on this point, and Dr.
    Stubbs, following Wendover, iv., 2, makes Peter of Winchester
    crown Henry. But the official account in Fædera, i., 145, is
    confirmed by Ann. Tewkesbury, p. 62; Histoire de G. le
    Maréchal, lines 15329-32; Hist. des ducs de Normandie, et des
    rois d'Angleterre, p. 181, and Ann. Winchester, p. 83.
    Wykes, p. 60, and Ann. Dunstable, p. 48, which confirm
    Wendover, are suspect by reason of other errors.

On November 2 a great council met at Bristol. Only four earls appeared, and one of these, William
of Fors, Earl of Albemarle, was a recent convert. But the presence of eleven bishops showed
that the Church had espoused the cause of the little king, and a throng of western and marcher
magnates made a sufficient representation of the lay baronage. The chief business was to provide
for the government during the minority. Gualo withstood the temptation to adopt the method
by which Innocent III. had ruled Sicily in the name of Frederick II. The king's mother was
too unpopular and incompetent to anticipate the part played by Blanche of Castile during the
minority of St. Louis. After the precedents set by the Latin kingdom of Jerusalem, the barons
took the matter into their own hands. Their work of selection was not an easy one. Randolph
of Chester was by far the most powerful of the royalist lords, but his turbulence and purely
personal policy, not less than his excessive possessions and inordinate palatine jurisdictions,
made him unsuitable for the regency. Yet had he raised any sort of claim, it would have been
hardly possible to resist his pretensions.[1] Luckily, Randolph stood aside, and his withdrawal
gave the aged earl marshal the position for which his nomination as justiciar at Gloucester
had already marked him out. The title of regent was as yet unknown, either in England or France,
but the style, "ruler of king and kingdom," which the barons gave to the marshal, meant something
more than the ordinary position of a justiciar. William's friends had some difficulty in persuading
him to accept the office. He was over seventy years of age, and felt it would be too great
a burden. Induced at last by the legate to undertake the charge, from that moment he shrank
from none of its responsibilities. The personal care of the king was comprised within the marshal's
duties, but he delegated that branch of his work to Peter des Roches.[2] These two, with Gualo,
controlled the whole policy of the new reign. Next to them came Hubert de Burgh, John's justiciar,
whom the marshal very soon restored to that office. But Hubert at once went back to the defence
of Dover, and for some time took little part in general politics.

    [1] The fears and hopes of the marshal's friends are well
    depicted in Histoire de Guillaume le Maréchal, lines
    15500-15708.

    [2] The panegyrist of the marshal emphasises strongly the fact
    that Peter's charge was a delegation, ibid., lines
    17993-18018.

On November 12, the legate and the regent issued at Bristol a confirmation of the Great Charter.
Some of the most important articles accepted by John in 1215 were omitted, including the "constitutional
clauses" requiring the consent of the council of barons for extraordinary taxation. Other provisions,
which tied the hands of the government, were postponed for further consideration in more settled
times. But with all its mutilations the Bristol charter of 1216 marked a more important moment
than even the charter of Runnymede. The condemnation of Innocent III. would in all probability
have prevented the temporary concession of John from becoming permanent. Love of country and
love of liberty were doubtless growing forces, but they were still in their infancy, while
the papal authority was something ultimate against which few Christians dared appeal. Thus
the adoption by the free will of the papal legate, and the deliberate choice of the marshal
of the policy of the Great Charter, converted, as has well been said, "a treaty won at the
point of the sword into a manifesto of peace and sound government".[1] This wise change of
policy cut away the ground from under the feet of the English supporters of Louis. The friends
of the young Henry could appeal to his innocence, to his sacred unction, and to his recognition
by Holy Church. They offered a programme of limited monarchy, of the redress of grievances,
of vested rights preserved, and of adhesion to the good old traditions that all Englishmen
respected. From that moment the Charter became a new starting-point in our history.

    [1] Stubbs, Const. Hist., ii., 21.

In strange contrast to this programme of reform, the aliens, who had opposed the charter of
Runnymede, were among the lords by whose counsel and consent the charter of Bristol was issued.
In its weakness the new government sought to stimulate the zeal both of the foreign mercenaries
and of the loyal barons by grants and privileges which seriously entrenched upon the royal
authority. Falkes de Bréauté was confirmed in the custody of a compact group of six midland
shires, besides the earldom of Devon, and the "county of the Isle of Wight,"[1] which he guarded
in the interests of his wife and stepson. Savary de Mauléon, who in despair of his old master's
success had crossed over to Poitou before John's death, was made warden of the castle of Bristol.
Randolph of Chester was consoled for the loss of the regency by the renewal of John's recent
grant of the Honour of Lancaster which was by this time definitely recognised as a shire.[2]

    [1] Histoire des ducs de Normandie, etc., p. 181.

    [2] Tait, Medieval Manchester and the Beginnings of
    Lancashire, p. 180.

The war assumed the character of a crusade. The royalist troops wore white crosses on their
garments, and were assured by the clergy of certain salvation. The cruel and purposeless ravaging
of the enemy's country, which had occupied John's last months of life, became rare, though
partisans, such as Falkes de Bréauté, still outvied the French in plundering monasteries and
churches. The real struggle became a war of castles. Louis endeavoured to complete his conquest
of the south-east by the capture of the royal strongholds, which still limited his power to
the open country. At first the French prince had some successes. In November he increased his
hold on the Home counties by capturing the Tower of London, by forcing Hertford to surrender,
and by pressing the siege of Berkhampsted. As Christmas approached the royalists proposed a
truce. Louis agreed on the condition that Berkhampsted should be surrendered, and early in
1217 both parties held councils, the royalists at Oxford and the barons at Cambridge. There
was vague talk of peace, but the war was renewed, and Louis captured Hedingham and Orford in
Essex, and besieged the castles of Colchester and Norwich. Then another truce until April 26
was concluded, on the condition that the royalists should surrender these two strongholds.

Both sides had need to pause. Louis, at the limit of his resources, was anxious to obtain men
and money from France. He was not getting on well with his new subjects. The eastern counties
grumbled at his taxes. Dissensions arose between the English and French elements in his host.
The English lords resented the grants and appointments he gave to his countrymen. The French
nobles professed to despise the English as traitors. When Hertford was taken, Robert FitzWalter
demanded that its custody should be restored to him. Louis roughly told him that Englishmen,
who had betrayed their natural lord, were not to be entrusted with such charges. It was to
little purpose that he promised Robert that every man should have his rights when the war was
over. The prospects of ending the war grew more remote every day. The royalists took advantage
of the discouragement of their opponents. The regent was lavish in promises. There should be
no inquiry into bygones, and all who submitted to the young king should be guaranteed all their
existing rights. The result was that a steady stream of converts began to flow from the camp
of Louis to the camp of the marshal. For the first time signs of a national movement against
Louis began to be manifest. It became clear that his rule meant foreign conquest.

Louis wished to return to France, but despite the truce he could only win his way to the coast
by fighting. The Cinque Ports were changing their allegiance. A popular revolt had broken out
in the Weald, where a warlike squire, William of Cassingham,[1] soon became a terror to the
French under his nickname of Wilkin of the Weald. As Louis traversed the disaffected districts,
Wilkin fell upon him near Lewes, and took prisoners two nephews of the Count of Nevers. On
his further march to Winchelsea, the men of the Weald broke down the bridges behind him, while
on his approach the men of Winchelsea destroyed their mills, and took to their ships as avowed
partisans of King Henry. The French prince entered the empty town, and had great difficulty
in keeping his army alive. "Wheat found they there," says a chronicler; "in great plenty, but
they knew not how to grind it. Long time were they in such a plight that they had to crush
by hand the corn of which they made their bread. They could catch no fish. Great store of nuts
found they in the town; these were their finest food."[2] Louis was in fact besieged by the
insurgents, and was only released by a force of knights riding down from London to help him.
These troops dared not travel by the direct road through the Weald, and made their way to Romney
through Canterbury. Rye was strongly held against them and the ships of the Cinque Ports dominated
the sea, so that Louis was still cut off from his friends at Romney. A relieving fleet was
despatched from Boulogne, but stress of weather kept it for a fortnight at Dover, while Louis
was starving at Winchelsea. At last the French ships appeared off Winchelsea. Thereupon the
English withdrew, and Louis finding the way open to France returned home.

    [1] Mr. G.J. Turner has identified Cassingham with the modern
    Kensham, between Rolvenden and Sandhurst, in Kent.

    [2] Histoire des ducs de Normandie, etc., p. 183.

A crowd of waverers changed sides. At their head were William Longsword, Earl of Salisbury,
the bastard great-uncle of the little king, and William, the young marshal, the eldest son
of the Earl of Pembroke. The regent wandered from town to town in Sussex, receiving the submission
of the peasantry, and venturing to approach as near London as Dorking. The victorious Wilkin
was made Warden of the Seven Hundreds of the Weald. The greatest of the magnates of Sussex
and Surrey, William, Earl Warenne, followed the example of his tenantry, and made his peace
with the king. The royalists fell upon the few castles held by the barons. While one corps
captured Odiham, Farnham, Chichester, and other southern strongholds, Falkes de Bréauté overran
the Isle of Ely, and Randolph of Chester besieged the Leicestershire fortress of Mount Sorrel.
Enguerrand de Coucy, whom Louis had left in command, remained helpless in London. His boldest
act was to send a force to Lincoln, which occupied the town, but failed to take the castle.
This stronghold, under its hereditary warden, the valiant old lady, Nichola de Camville,[1]
had already twice withstood a siege.

    [1] On Nichola de Camville or de la Hay see M. Petit-Dutaillis
    in Mélanges Julien Havet, pp. 369-80.

Louis found no great encouragement in France, for Philip Augustus, too prudent to offend the
Church, gave but grudging support to his excommunicated son. When, on the eve of the expiration
of the truce, Louis returned to England, his reinforcements comprised only 120 knights. Among
them, however, were the Count of Brittany, Peter Mauclerc, anxious to press in person his rights
to the earldom of Richmond, the Counts of Perche and Guînes, and many lords of Picardy, Artois
and Ponthieu. Conscious that everything depended on the speedy capture of the royal castles,
Louis introduced for the first time into England the trébuchet, a recently invented machine
that cast great missiles by means of heavy counterpoises. "Great was the talk about this, for
at that time few of them had been seen in France."[1] On April 22, Louis reached Dover, where
the castle was still feebly beset by the French. On his nearing the shore, Wilkin of the Weald
and Oliver, a bastard of King John's, burnt the huts of the French engaged in watching the
castle. Afraid to land in their presence, Louis disembarked at Sandwich. Next day he went by
land to Dover, but discouraged by tidings of his losses, he gladly concluded a short truce
with Hubert de Burgh. He abandoned the siege of Dover, and hurried off towards Winchester,
where the two castles were being severely pressed by the royalists. But his progress was impeded
by his siege train, and Farnham castle blocked his way.

    [1] Histoire des ducs de Normandie, etc., p. 188; cf.
    English Hist. Review, xviii. (1903), 263-64.

Saer de Quincy, Earl of Winchester, joined Louis outside the walls of Farnham. Saer's motive
was to persuade Louis to hasten to the relief of his castle of Mount Sorrel. The French prince
was not in a position to resist pressure from a powerful supporter. He divided his army, and
while the Earl of Winchester, along with the Count of Perche and Robert FitzWalter, made their
way to Leicestershire, he completed his journey to Winchester, threw a fresh force into the
castles, and, leaving the Count of Nevers in charge, hurried to London. There he learnt that
Hubert de Burgh at Dover had broken the truce, and he at once set off to renew the siege of
the stronghold which had so continually baulked his plans. But little good came of his efforts,
and the much-talked-of trébuchet proving powerless to effect a breach, Louis had to resign
himself to a weary blockade. While he was besieging Dover, Saer de Quincy had relieved Mount
Sorrel, whence he marched to the help of Gilbert of Ghent, the only English baron whom Louis
ventured to raise to comital rank as Earl of Lincoln. Gilbert was still striving to capture
Lincoln Castle, but Nichola de Camville had resisted him from February to May. With the help
of the army from Mount Sorrel, the castle and its châtelaine were soon reduced to great straits.

The marshal saw that the time was come to take the offensive, and resolved to raise the siege.
Having no field army, he stripped his castles of their garrisons, and gave rendezvous to his
barons at Newark. There the royalists rested three days, and received the blessing of Gualo
and the bishops. They then set out towards Lincoln, commanded by the regent in person, the
Earl of Chester, and the Bishop of Winchester, whom the legate appointed as his representative.
The strong water defences of the rebel city on the south made it unadvisable for them to take
the direct route towards it. Their army descended the Trent to Torksey, where it rested the
night of May 19. Early next day, the eve of Trinity Sunday, it marched in four "battles" to
relieve Lincoln Castle.

There were more than 600 knights besieging the castle and holding the town, and the relieving
army only numbered 400 knights and 300 cross-bowmen. But the barons dared not risk a combat
that might have involved them in the fate of Stephen in 1141. They retreated within the city
and allowed the marshal to open up communications with the castle. The marshal's plan of battle
was arranged by Peter des Roches, who was more at home in the field than in the church. The
cross-bowmen under Falkes de Bréauté were thrown into the castle, and joined with the garrison
in making a sally from its east gate into the streets of the town. While the barons were thus
distracted, the marshal burst through the badly defended north gate. The barons taken in front
and flank fought desperately, but with no success. Falkes' cross-bowmen shot down their horses,
and the dismounted knights soon failed to hold their own in the open ground about the cathedral.
The Count of Perche was slain by a sword-thrust through the eyehole of his helmet. The royalists
chased the barons down the steep lanes which connect the upper with the lower town. When they
reached level ground the baronial troops rallied, and once more strove to reascend the hill.
But the town was assailed on every side, and its land defences yielded with little difficulty.
The Earl of Chester poured his vassals through one of the eastern gates, and took the barons
in flank. Once more they broke, and this time they rallied not again, but fled through the
Wigford suburb seeking any means of escape. Some obstruction in the Bar-gate, the southern
exit from the city, retarded their flight, and many of the leaders were captured. The remnant
fled to London, thinking that "every bush was full of marshals," and suffering severely from
the hostility of the peasantry. Only three persons were slain in the battle, but there was
a cruel massacre of the defenceless citizens after its close. So vast was the booty won by
the victors that in scorn they called the fight the Fair of Lincoln![1]

    [1] For a discussion of the battle, see English Hist. Review,
    xviii. (1903), 240-65.

Louis' prospects were still not desperate. The victorious army scattered, each man to his own
house, so that the marshal was in no position to press matters to extremities. But there was
a great rush to make terms with the victor, and Louis thought it prudent to abandon the hopeless
siege of Dover, and take refuge with his partisans, the Londoners. Meanwhile the marshal hovered
round London, hoping eventually to shut up the enemy in the capital. On June 12, the Archbishop
of Tyre and three Cistercian abbots, who had come to England to preach the Crusade, persuaded
both parties to accept provisional articles of peace. Louis stipulated for a complete amnesty
to all his partisans; but the legate declined to grant pardon to the rebellious clerks who
had refused to obey the interdict, conspicuous among whom was the firebrand Simon Langton,
brother of the archbishop. Finding no compromise possible, Louis broke off the negotiations
rather than abandon his friends. Gualo urged a siege of London, but the marshal saw that his
resources were not adequate for such a step. Again many of his followers went home, and the
court abode first at Oxford and afterwards at Gloucester. It seemed as if the war might go
on for ever.

Blanche of Castile, Louis' wife, redoubled her efforts on his behalf. In response to her entreaties
a hundred knights and several hundred men-at-arms took ship for England. Among the knights
was the famous William des Barres, one of the heroes of Bouvines, and Theobald, Count of Blois.
Eustace the Monk, a renegade clerk turned pirate, and a hero of later romance, took command
of the fleet. On the eve of St. Bartholomew, August 23, Eustace sailed from Calais towards
the mouth of the Thames. Kent had become royalist; the marshal and Hubert de Burgh held Sandwich,
so that the long voyage up the Thames was the only way of taking succour to Louis. Next day
the old earl remained on shore, but sent out Hubert with the fleet. The English let the French
pass by, and then, manoeuvring for the weather gage, tacked and assailed them from behind.[1]
The fight raged round the great ship of Eustace, on which the chief French knights were embarked.
Laden with stores, horses, and a ponderous trébuchet, it was too low in the water to manoeuvre
or escape. Hubert easily laid his own vessel alongside it. The English, who were better used
to fighting at sea than the French, threw powdered lime into the faces of the enemy, swept
the decks with their crossbow bolts and then boarded the ship, which was taken after a fierce
fight. The crowd of cargo boats could offer little resistance as they beat up against the wind
in their retreat to Calais; the ships containing the soldiers were more fortunate in escaping.
Eustace was beheaded, and his head paraded on a pole through the streets of Canterbury.

    [1] This successful attempt of the English fleet to manoeuvre
    for the weather gage, that is to secure a position to the
    windward of their opponents, is the first recorded instance of
    what became the favourite tactics of British admirals. For the
    legend of Eustace see Witasse le Moine, ed. Förster (1891).

The battle of St. Bartholomew's Day, like that of Lincoln a triumph of skill over numbers,
proved decisive for the fortunes of Louis. The English won absolute control of the narrow seas,
and cut off from Louis all hope of fighting his way back to France. As soon as he heard of
the defeat of Eustace, he reopened negotiations with the marshal. On the 29th there was a meeting
between Louis and the Earl at the gates of London. The regent had to check the ardour of his
own partisans, and it was only after anxious days of deliberation that the party of moderation
prevailed. On September 5 a formal conference was held on an island of the Thames near Kingston.
On the 11th a definitive treaty was signed at the archbishop's house at Lambeth.

The Treaty of Lambeth repeated with little alteration the terms rejected by Louis three months
before. The French prince surrendered his castles, released his partisans from their oaths
to him, and exhorted all his allies, including the King of Scots and the Prince of Gwynedd,
to lay down their arms. In return Henry promised that no layman should lose his inheritance
by reason of his adherence to Louis, and that the baronial prisoners should be released without
further payment of ransom. London, despite its pertinacity in rebellion, was to retain its
ancient franchises. The marshal bound himself personally to pay Louis 10,000 marks, nominally
as expenses, really as a bribe to accept these terms. A few days later Louis and his French
barons appeared before the legate, barefoot and in the white garb of penitents, and were reconciled
to the Church. They were then escorted to Dover, whence they took ship for France. Only on
the rebellious clergy did Gualo's wrath fall. The canons of St. Paul's were turned out in a
body; ringleaders like Simon Langton were driven into exile, and agents of the legate traversed
the country punishing clerks who had disregarded the interdict. But Honorius was more merciful
than Gualo, and within a year even Simon received his pardon. The laymen of both camps forgot
their differences, when Randolph of Chester and William of Ferrars fought in the crusade of
Damietta, side by side with Saer of Winchester and Robert FitzWalter. The reconciliation of
parties was further shown in the marriage of Hubert de Burgh to John's divorced wife, Isabella
of Gloucester, a widow by the death of the Earl of Essex, and still the foremost English heiress.
On November 6 the pacification was completed by the reissue of the Great Charter in what was
substantially its final form. The forest clauses of the earlier issues were published in a
much enlarged shape as a separate Forest Charter, which laid down the great principle that
no man was to lose life or limb for hindering the king's hunting.

It is tempting to regard the defeat of Louis as a triumph of English patriotism. But it is
an anachronism to read the ideals of later ages into the doings of the men of the early thirteenth
century. So far as there was national feeling in England, it was arrayed against Henry. To
the last the most fervently English of the barons were steadfast on the French prince's side,
and the triumph of the little king had largely been procured by John's foreigners. To contemporary
eyes the rebels were factious assertors of class privileges and feudal immunities. Their revolt
against their natural lord brought them into conflict with the sentiment of feudal duty which
was still so strong in faithful minds. And against them was a stronger force than feudal loyally.
From this religious standpoint the Canon of Barnwell best sums up the situation: "It was a
miracle that the heir of France, who had won so large a part of the kingdom, was constrained
to abandon the realm without hope of recovering it. It was because the hand of God was not
with him. He came to England in spite of the prohibition of the Holy Roman Church, and he remained
there regardless of its anathema."

The young king never forgot that he owed his throne to the pope and his legate. "When we were
bereft of our father in tender years," he declared long afterwards, "when our subjects were
turned against us, it was our mother, the Holy Roman Church, that brought back our realm under
our power, anointed us king, crowned us, and placed us on the throne."[1] The papacy, which
had secured a new hold over England by its alliance with John, made its position permanent
by its zeal for the rights of his son. By identifying the monarchy with the charters, it skilfully
retraced the false step which it had taken. Under the ægis of the Roman see the national spirit
grew, and the next generation was to see the temper fostered by Gualo in its turn grow impatient
of the papal supremacy. It was Gualo, then, who secured the confirmation of the charters. Even
Louis unconsciously worked in that direction, for, had he not gained so strong a hold on the
country, there would have been no reason to adopt a policy of conciliation. We must not read
the history of this generation in the light of modern times, or even with the eyes of Matthew
Paris.

    [1] Grosseteste, Epistolæ, p. 339.

The marshal had before him a task essentially similar to that which Henry II had undertaken
after the anarchy of Stephen's reign. It was with the utmost difficulty that the sum promised
to Louis could be extracted from the war-stricken and famished tillers of the soil. The exchequer
was so empty that the Christmas court of the young king was celebrated at the expense of Falkes
de Bréauté. Those who had fought for the king clamoured for grants and rewards, and it was
necessary to humour them. For example, Randolph of Blundeville, with the earldom of Lincoln
added to his Cheshire palatinate and his Lancashire Honour, had acquired a position nearly
as strong as that of the Randolph of the reign of Stephen. "Adulterine castles" had grown up
in such numbers that the new issue of the Charter insisted upon their destruction. Even the
lawful castles were held by unauthorised custodians, who refused to yield them up to the king's
officers. Though Alexander, King of Scots, purchased his reconciliation with Rome by abandoning
Carlisle and performing homage to Henry, the Welsh remained recalcitrant. One chieftain, Morgan
of Caerleon, waged war against the marshal in Gwent, and was dislodged with difficulty. During
the war Llewelyn ap Iorwerth conquered Cardigan and Carmarthen from the marchers, and it was
only after receiving assurances that he might retain these districts so long as the king's
minority lasted that he condescended to do homage at Worcester in March, 1218.

In the following May Stephen Langton came back from exile and threw the weight of his judgment
on the regent's side. Gradually the worst difficulties were surmounted. The administrative
machinery once more became effective. A new seal was cast for the king, whose documents had
hitherto been stamped with the seal of the regent. Order was so far restored that Gualo returned
to Italy. He was a man of high character and noble aims, caring little for personal advancement,
and curbing his hot zeal against "schismatics" in his desire to restore peace to England. His
memory is still commemorated in his great church of St. Andrew, at Vercelli, erected, it may
be, with the proceeds of his English benefices, and still preserving the manuscript of legends
of its patron saint, which its founder had sent thither from his exile.

At Candlemas, 1219, the aged regent was smitten with a mortal illness. His followers bore him
up the Thames from London to his manor of Caversham, where his last hours were disturbed by
the intrigues of Peter of Winchester for his succession, and the importunity of selfish clerks,
clamouring for grants to their churches. He died on May 14, clad in the habit of the Knights
of the Temple, in whose new church in London his body was buried, and where his effigy may
still be seen. The landless younger son of a poor baron, he had supported himself in his youth
by the spoils of the knights he had vanquished in the tournaments, where his successes gained
him fame as the model of chivalry. The favour of Henry, the "young king," gave him political
importance, and his marriage with Strongbow's daughter made him a mighty man in England, Ireland,
Wales, and Normandy. Strenuous and upright, simple and dignified, the young soldier of fortune
bore easily the weight of office and honour which accrued to him before the death of his first
patron. Limited as was his outlook, he gave himself entirely to his master-principle of loyally
to the feudal lord whom he had sworn to obey. This simple conception enabled him to subordinate
his interests as a marcher potentate to his duty to the English monarchy. It guided him in
his difficult work of serving with unbending constancy a tyrant like John. It shone most clearly
when in his old age he saved John's son from the consequences of his father's misdeeds. A happy
accident has led to the discovery in our own days of the long poem, drawn up in commemoration
of his career[1] at the instigation of his son. This important work has enabled us to enter
into the marshal's character and spirit in much the same way as Joinville's History of St.
Louis has made us familiar with the motives and attributes of the great French king. They are
the two men of the thirteenth century whom we know most intimately. It is well that the two
characters thus portrayed at length represent to us so much of what is best in the chivalry,
loyalty, statecraft, and piety of the Middle Ages.

    [1] Histoire de Guillaume le Maréchal, published by P. Meyer
    for the Soc. de l'histoire de France. Petit-Dutaillis, Étude
    sur Louis VIII. (1894), and G.J. Turner, Minority of Henry
    III., part i, in Transactions of the Royal Hist. Soc., new
    ser., viii. (1904), 245-95, are the best modern commentaries on
    the history of the marshal's regency.

CHAPTER II.

THE RULE OF HUBERT DE BURGH.

William Marshal had recognized that the regency must end with him. "There is no land," he declared,
"where the people are so divided as they are in England. Were I to hand over the king to one
noble, the others would be jealous. For this reason I have determined to entrust him to God
and the pope. No one can blame me for this, for, if the land is not defended by the pope, I
know no one who can protect it." The fortunate absence of Randolph of Chester on crusade made
it easy to carry out this plan. Accordingly the king of twelve years was supposed to be capable
of acting for himself. But the ultimate authority resided with the new legate Pandulf, who,
without any formal designation, was the real successor of the marshal. This arrangement naturally
left great power to Peter des Roches, who continued to have the custody of the king's person,
and to Hubert the justiciar, who henceforth acted as Pandulf's deputy. Next to them came the
Archbishop of Canterbury. Langton's share in the struggle for the charters was so conspicuous,
that we do not always remember that it was as a scholar and a theologian that he acquired his
chief reputation among his contemporaries. On his return from exile he found such engrossing
occupation in the business of his see, that he took little part in politics for several years.
His self-effacement strengthened the position of the legate.

Pandulf was no stranger to England. As subdeacon of the Roman Church he received John's submission
in 1213, and stood by his side during nearly all his later troubles. He had been rewarded by
his election to the bishopric of Norwich, but was recalled to Rome before his consecration,
and only came back to England in the higher capacity of legate on December 3, 1218, after the
recall of Gualo. He had been the cause of Langton's suspension, and there was probably no love
lost between him and the archbishop. It was in order to avoid troublesome questions of jurisdiction
that Pandulf, at the pope's suggestion, continued to postpone his consecration as bishop, since
that act would have subordinated him to the Archbishop of Canterbury. But neither he nor Langton
was disposed to push matters to extremities. Just as Peter des Roches balanced Hubert de Burgh,
so the archbishop acted as a makeweight to the legate. When power was thus nicely equipoised,
there was a natural tendency to avoid conflicting issues. In these circumstances the truce
between parties, which had marked the regency, continued for the first years after Earl William's
death. In all doubtful points the will of the legate seems to have prevailed. Pandulf's correspondence
shows him interfering in every matter of state. He associated himself with the justiciar in
the appointment of royal officials; he invoked the papal authority to put down "adulterine
castles," and to prevent any baron having more than one royal stronghold in his custody; he
prolonged the truce with France, and strove to pacify the Prince of North Wales; he procured
the resumption of the royal domain, and rebuked Bishop Peter and the justiciar for remissness
in dealing with Jewish usurers; he filled up bishoprics at his own discretion. Nor did he neglect
his own interests; his kinsfolk found preferment in his English diocese, and he appropriated
certain livings for the payment of his debts, "so far as could be done without offence". But
in higher matters he pursued a wise policy. In recognising that the great interest of the Church
was peace, he truly expressed the policy of the mild Honorius. For more than two years he kept
Englishmen from flying at each other's throats. If they paid for peace by the continuance of
foreign rule, it was better to be governed by Pandulf than pillaged by Falkes. The principal
events of these years were due to papal initiative.[1] Honorius looked askance on the maimed
rites of the Gloucester coronation, and ordered a new hallowing to take place at the accustomed
place and with the accustomed ceremonies. This supplementary rite was celebrated at Westminster
on Whitsunday, May 17, 1220. Though Pandulf was present, he discreetly permitted the Archbishop
of Canterbury to crown Henry with the diadem of St. Edward. "This coronation," says the Canon
of Barnwell, "was celebrated with such good order and such splendour that the oldest magnates
who were present declared that they had seen none of the king's predecessors crowned with so
much goodwill and tranquillity." Nor was this the only great ecclesiastical function of the
year. On July 7 Langton celebrated at Canterbury the translation of the relics of St. Thomas
to a magnificent shrine at the back of the high altar. Again the legate gave precedence to
the archbishop, and the presence of the young king, of the Archbishop of Reims, and the Primate
of Hungary, gave distinction to the solemnity. It was a grand time for English saints. When
Damietta was taken from the Mohammedans, the crusaders dedicated two of its churches to St.
Thomas of Canterbury and St. Edmund the King. A new saint was added to the calendar, who, if
not an Englishman, had done good work for the country of his adoption. In 1220 Honorius III.
canonised Hugh of Avalon, the Carthusian Bishop of Lincoln, on the report of a commission presided
over by Langton himself.

    [1]: H.R. Luard, On the Relations between England and Rome
    during the Earlier Portion of the Reign of Henry III. (1877),
    illustrates papal influence at this period.

No real unity of principle underlay the external tranquillity. As time went on Peter des Roches
bitterly resented the growing preponderance of Hubert de Burgh. Not all the self-restraint
of the legate could commend him to Langton, whose obstinate insistence upon his metropolitical
authority forced Pandulf to procure bulls from Rome specifically releasing him from the jurisdiction
of the primate. In these circumstances it was natural for Bishop Peter and the legate to join
together against the justiciar and the archbishop. Finding that the legate was too strong for
him, Langton betook himself to Rome, and remained there nearly a year. Before he went home
he persuaded Honorius to promise not to confer the same benefice twice by papal provision,
and to send no further legate to England during his lifetime. Pandulf was at once recalled,
and left England in July, 1221, a month before his rival's return. He was compensated for the
slight put upon him by receiving his long-deferred consecration to Norwich at the hands of
the pope. There is small reason for believing that he was exceptionally greedy or unpopular.
But his withdrawal removed an influence which had done its work for good, and was becoming
a national danger. Langton henceforth could act as the real head of the English Church. In
1222, he held an important provincial council at Oseney abbey, near Oxford, where he issued
constitutions, famous as the first provincial canons still recognised as binding in our ecclesiastical
courts. He began once more to concern himself with affairs of state, and Hubert found him a
sure ally. Bishop Peter, disgusted with his declining influence, welcomed his appointment as
archbishop of the crusading Church at Damietta. He took the cross, and left England with Falkes
de Bréauté as his companion. Learning that the crescent had driven the cross out of his new
see, he contented himself with making the pilgrimage to Compostella, and soon found his way
back to England, where he sought for opportunities to regain power.

Relieved of the opposition of Bishop Peter, Hubert insisted on depriving barons of doubtful
loyalty of the custody of royal castles, and found his chief opponent in William Earl of Albemarle.
In dignity and possessions, Albemarle was not ill-qualified to be a feudal leader. The son
of William de Fors, of Oléron, a Poitevin adventurer of the type of Falkes de Bréauté, he represented,
through his mother, the line of the counts of Aumâle, who had since the Conquest ruled over
Holderness from their castle at Skipsea. The family acquired the status of English earls under
Stephen, retaining their foreign title, expressed in English in the form of Albemarle, being
the first house of comital rank abroad to hold an earldom with a French name unassociated with
any English shire. During the civil war Albemarle's tergiversations, which rivalled those of
the Geoffrey de Mandeville of Stephen's time, had been rewarded by large grants from the victorious
party. Since 1219 he suffered slight upon slight, and in 1220 was stripped of the custody of
Rockingham Castle. Late in that year Hubert resolved to enforce an order, promulgated in 1217,
which directed Albemarle to restore to his former subtenant Bytham Castle, in South Kesteven,
of which he was overlord, and of which he had resumed possession on account of the treason
of his vassal. The earl hurried away in indignation from the king's Christmas court, and in
January, 1221, threw himself into Bytham, eager to hold it by force against the king. For a
brief space he ruled over the country-side after the fashion of a baron of Stephen's time.
He plundered the neighbouring towns and churches, and filled the dungeons of Castle Bytham
with captives. On the pretext of attending a council at Westminster he marched southwards,
but his real motive was disclosed when he suddenly attacked the castle of Fotheringhay. His
men crossed the moat on the ice, and, burning down the great gate, easily overpowered the scanty
garrison. "As if he were the only ruler of the kingdom," says the Canon of Barnwell, "he sent
letters signed with his seal to the mayors of the cities of England, granting his peace to
all merchants engaged in plying their trades, and allowing them free licence of going and coming
through his castles." Nothing in the annals of the time puts more clearly this revival of the
old feudal custom that each baron should lord it as king over his own estates.

Albemarle's power did not last long. He incurred the wrath of the Church, and both in Kesteven
and in Northamptonshire set himself against the interests of Randolph of Chester. Before January
was over Pandulf excommunicated him, and a great council granted a special scutage, "the scutage
of Bytham," to equip an army to crush the rebel. Early in February a considerable force marched
northwards against him. The Earl of Chester took part in the campaign, and both the legate
and the king accompanied the army. Before the combined efforts of Church and State, Albemarle
dared not hold his ground, and fled to Fountains, where he took sanctuary. His followers abandoned
Fotheringhay, but stood a siege at Bytham. After six days this castle was captured on February
8. Even then secret sympathisers with Albemarle were able to exercise influence on his behalf,
and Pandulf himself was willing to show mercy. The earl came out of sanctuary, and was pardoned
on condition of taking the crusader's vow. No effort was made to insist on his going on crusade,
and within a few months he was again in favour. "Thus," says Roger of Wendover, "the king set
the worst of examples, and encouraged future rebellions." Randolph of Chester came out with
the spoils of victory. He secured as the price of his ostentatious fidelity the custody of
the Honour of Huntingdon, during the nonage of the earl, his nephew, John the Scot.

A tumult in the capital soon taught Hubert that he had other foes to fight against besides
the feudal party. At a wrestling match, held on July 25, 1222, between the city and the suburbs,
the citizens won an easy victory. The tenants of the Abbot of Westminster challenged the conquerors
to a fresh contest on August 1 at Westminster. But the abbot's men were more anxious for revenge
than good sport, and seeing that the Londoners were likely to win, they violently broke up
the match. Suspecting no evil, the citizens had come without arms, and were very severely handled
by their rivals. Driven back behind their walls, the Londoners clamoured for vengeance. Serlo
the mercer, their mayor, a prudent and peace-loving man, urged them to seek compensation of
the abbot. But the citizens preferred the advice of Constantine FitzAthulf, who insisted upon
an immediate attack on the men of Westminster. Next day the abbey precincts were invaded, and
much mischief was done. The alarm was the greater because Constantine was a man of high position,
who had recently been a sheriff of London, and had once been a strenuous supporter of Louis
of France. It was rumoured that his followers had raised the cry, "Montjoie! Saint Denis!"
The quarrels of neighbouring cities were as dangerous to sound rule as the feuds of rival barons,
and Hubert took instant measures to put down the sedition. With the aid of Falkes de Bréauté's
mercenaries, order was restored, and Constantine was led before the justiciar. Early next day
Falkes assembled his forces, and crossed the river to Southwark. He took with him Constantine
and two of his supporters, and hanged all three, without form of trial, before the city knew
anything about it. Then Falkes and his soldiers rushed through the streets, capturing, mutilating,
and frightening away the citizens. Constantine's houses and property were seized by the king.
The weak Serlo was deposed from the mayoralty, and the city taken into the king's hands. It
was the last time that Hubert and Falkes worked together, and something of the violence of
the condottiere captain sullied the justiciar's reputation. As the murderer of Constantine,
Hubert was henceforth pursued with the undying hatred of the Londoners.

During the next two years parties became clearly defined. Hubert more and more controlled the
royal policy, and strove to strengthen both his master and himself by marriage alliances. Powerful
husbands were sought for the king's three sisters. On June 19, 1221, Joan, Henry's second sister,
was married to the young Alexander of Scotland, at York. At the same time Hubert, a widower
by Isabella of Gloucester's death, wedded Alexander's elder sister, Margaret, a match which
compensated the justiciar for his loss of Isabella's lands. Four years later, Isabella, the
King of Scot's younger sister, was united with Roger Bigod, the young Earl of Norfolk, a grandson
of the great William Marshal, whose eldest son and successor, William Marshal the younger,
was in 1224 married to the king's third sister, Eleanor. The policy of intermarriage between
the royal family and the baronage was defended by the example of Philip Augustus in France,
and on the ground of the danger to the royal interests if so strong a magnate as the earl marshal
were enticed away from his allegiance by an alliance with a house unfriendly to Henry.[1]

    [1] Royal Letters, i., 244-46.

The futility of marriage alliances in modifying policy was already made clear by the attitude
of Llewelyn ap Iorwerth, the husband of Henry's bastard sister Joan. This resourceful prince
had already raised himself to a high position by a statecraft which lacked neither strength
nor duplicity. Though fully conscious of his position as the champion of a proud nation, and,
posing as the peer of the King of Scots, Llewelyn saw that it was his interest to continue
the friendship with the baronial opposition which had profited him so greatly in the days of
the French invasion. The pacification arranged in 1218 sat rightly upon him, and he plunged
into a war with William Marshal the younger that desolated South Wales for several years. In
1219 Llewelyn devastated Pembrokeshire so cruelly that the marshal's losses were currently,
though absurdly, reported to have exceeded the amount of the ransom of King Richard. There
was much more fighting, but Llewelyn's progress was impeded by difficulties with his own son
Griffith, and with the princes of South Wales, who bore impatiently the growing hold of the
lord of Gwynedd upon the affections of southern Welshmen. There was war also in the middle
march, where in 1220 a royal army was assembled against Llewelyn; but Pandulf negotiated a
truce, and the only permanent result of this effort was the fortification of the castle and
town at Montgomery, which had become royal demesne on the extinction of the ancient house of
Bollers a few years earlier. But peace never lasted long west of the Severn, and in 1222 William
Marshal drove Llewelyn out of Cardigan and Carmarthen. Again there were threats of war. Llewelyn
was excommunicated, and his lands put under interdict. The marshal complained bitterly of the
poor support which Henry gave him against the Welsh, but Hubert restored cordiality between
him and the king. In these circumstances the policy of marrying Eleanor to the indignant marcher
was a wise one. Llewelyn however could still look to the active friendship of Randolph of Chester.
While the storm of war raged in South Wales, the march between Cheshire and Gwynedd enjoyed
unwonted peace, and in 1223 a truce was patched up through Randolph's mediation.

Earl Randolph needed the Welsh alliance the more because he definitely threw in his lot with
the enemies of Hubert de Burgh. In April, 1223, a bull of Honorius III. declared Henry competent
to govern in his own name, a change which resulted in a further strengthening of Hubert's power.
Towards the end of the year Randolph joined with William of Albemarle, the Bishop of Winchester
and Falkes de Bréauté, in an attempt to overthrow the justiciar. The discontented barons took
arms and laid their grievances before the king. They wished, they said, no ill to king or kingdom,
but simply desired to remove the justiciar from his counsels. Hot words passed between the
indignant Hubert and Peter des Roches, and the conference broke up in confusion. The barons
still remained mutinous, and, while the king held his Christmas court at Northampton, they
celebrated the feast at Leicester. At last Langton persuaded both parties to come to an agreement
on the basis of king's friends and barons alike surrendering their castles and wardships. This
was a substantial victory for the party of order, and during the next few months much was done
to transfer the castles to loyal hands. Randolph himself surrendered Shrewsbury and Bridgnorth.

Comparative peace having been restored, and the judicial bench purged of feudal partisans,
private persons ventured to complain of outrageous acts of "novel disseisin", or unlawful appropriation
of men's lands. In the spring of 1224 the king's justices went throughout the country, hearing
and deciding pleas of this sort. Sixteen acts of novel disseisin were proved against Falkes
de Bréauté. Despite all the efforts of Langton and Hubert, that able adventurer, though stripped
of some of his castles, fully maintained the position which he first acquired in the service
of John. He was not the man to put up tamely with the piecemeal destruction of his power by
legal process, and, backed up secretly by the feudal leaders, resolved to take the law into
his own hands. One of the most active of the judges in hearing complaints against him was Henry
of Braybrook. Falkes bade his brother, William de Bréauté fall upon the justice, who had been
hearing suits at Dunstable, and take him prisoner. William faithfully fulfilled his brother's
orders, and on June 17 the unlucky judge was safely shut up in a dungeon of Bedford Castle,
of which William had the custody, as his brother's agent. So daring an outrage on the royal
authority was worse than the action of William of Albemarle four years before. Hubert and the
archbishop immediately took strong measures to enforce the sanctity of the law. While Langton
excommunicated Falkes and his abettors, Hubert hastily turned against the traitor the forces
which were assembling at Northampton with the object of reconquering Poitou. Braybrook was
captured on Monday. On Thursday the royal troops besieged Bedford.

The siege lasted from June 20 to August 14. The "noble castle of Bedford" was new, large, and
fortified with an inner and outer baily, and two strong towers. Falkes trusted that it would
hold out for a year, and had amply provided it with provisions and munitions of war. In effect,
though William de Bréauté and his followers showed a gallant spirit, it resisted the justiciar
for barely two months. When called upon to surrender the garrison answered that they would
only yield at their lord's orders, and that the more as they were not bound to the king by
homage or fealty. Nothing was left but a fight to the death. The royalists made strenuous efforts.
A new scutage, the "scutage of Bedford," was imposed on the realm. Meanwhile Falkes fled to
his accomplice, the Earl of Chester, and afterwards took refuge with Llewelyn. But the adventurer
found such cold comfort from the great men who had lured him to his ruin that he perforce made
his way back to England, along with a motley band of followers, English and French, Scottish
and Welsh.[1] A hue and cry was raised after him, and, like William of Albemarle, he was forced
to throw himself into sanctuary, while Randolph of Chester openly joined the besiegers of Bedford.
In his refuge in a church at Coventry, Falkes was persuaded to surrender to the bishop of the
diocese, who handed him over to Langton.

    [1] The names of his familia taken with him are in Patent
    Rolls of Henry III., 1216-1227, pp. 461-62.

During Falkes's wanderings his brother had been struggling valiantly against overwhelming odds.
Petrariae and mangonels threw huge stones into the castle, and effected breaches in keep and
curtain. Miners undermined the walls, while over-against the stronghold two lofty structures
of wood were raised, from which the crossbowmen, who manned them, were able to command the
whole of the interior. At last the castle was captured in four successive assaults. In the
first the barbican was taken; in the next the outer baily was stormed; in the third the interior
baily was won; and in the last the keep was split asunder. The garrison then allowed the women
and captives, including the wife of Falkes and the unlucky Braybrook, to make their way to
the enemies' lines. Next day the defenders themselves surrendered. The only mercy shown to
these gallant men was that they were allowed to make their peace with the Church before their
execution. Of the eighty prisoners, three Templars alone were spared.

Falkes threw himself upon the king's mercy, appealing to his former services to Henry and his
father. He surrendered to the King the large sums of money which he had deposited with his
bankers, the Templars of London, and ordered his castellans in Plympton and the other west-country
castles of his wife to open their gates to the royal officers. In return for these concessions
he was released from excommunication. His life was spared, but his property was confiscated,
and he was ordered to abjure the realm. Even his wife deserted him, protesting that she had
been forced to marry him against her will. On October 26 he received letters of safe conduct
to go beyond sea. As he left England, he protested that he had been instigated by the English
magnates in all that he had done. On landing at Fécamp he was detained by his old enemy Louis,
then, by his father's death, King of France. But Louis VIII. was the last man to bear old grudges
against the Norman adventurer, especially as Falkes's rising had enabled him to capture the
chief towns of Poitou.

Even in his exile Falkes was still able to do mischief. He obtained his release from Louis'
prison about Easter, 1225, on the pretence of going on crusade. He then made his way to Rome
where he strove to excite the sympathy of Honorius III., by presenting an artful memorial,
which throws a flood of light upon his character, motives, and hopes. Honorius earnestly pleaded
for his restitution, but Hubert and Langton stood firm against him. They urged that the pope
had been misinformed, and declined to recall the exile. Honorius sent his chaplain Otto to
England, but the nuncio found it impossible to modify the policy of the advisers of the king.
Falkes went back from Italy to Troyes, where he waited for a year in the hope that his sentence
would be reversed. At last Otto gave up his cause in despair, and devoted himself to the more
profitable work of exacting money from the English clergy. Falkes died in 1226. With him disappears
from our history the lawless spirit which had troubled the land since the war between John
and his barons. The foreign adventurers, of whom he was the chief, either went back in disgust
to their native lands, or, like Peter de Mauley, became loyal subjects and the progenitors
of a harmless stock of English barons. The ten years of storm and stress were over. The administration
was once more in English hands, and Hubert enjoyed a few years of well-earned power.

New difficulties at once arose. The defeat of the feudalists and their Welsh allies involved
heavy special taxation, and the king's honour required that an effort should be made both to
wrest Poitou from Louis VIII., and to strengthen the English hold over Gascony. Besides national
obligations, clergy and laity alike were still called upon to contribute towards the cost of
crusading enterprises, and in 1226 the papal nuncio, Otto, demanded that a large proportion
of the revenues of the English clergy should be contributed to the papal coffers. To the Englishman
of that age all extraordinary taxation was a grievance quite irrespective of its necessity.
The double incidence of the royal and papal demands was met by protests which showed some tendency
towards the splitting up of the victorious side into parties. It was still easy for all to
unite against Otto, and the papal agent was forced to go home empty handed, for councils both
of clergy and barons agreed to reject his demands. Whatever other nations might offer to the
pope, argued the magnates, the realms of England and Ireland at least had a right to be freed
from such impositions by reason of the tribute which John had agreed to pay to Innocent III.
The demand of the king's ministers for a fifteenth to prosecute the war with France was reluctantly
conceded, but only on the condition of a fresh confirmation of the charters in a form intended
to bring home to the king his personal obligation to observe them. Hubert de Burgh, however,
was no enthusiast for the charters. His standpoint was that of the officials of the age of
Henry II. To him the re-establishment of order meant the restoration of the prerogative. There
he parted company with the archbishop, who was an eager upholder of the charters, for which
he was so largely responsible. The struggle against the foreigner was to be succeeded by a
struggle for the charters.

In January, 1227, a council met at Oxford. The king, then nearly twenty years old, declared
that he would govern the country himself, and renounced the tutelage of the Bishop of Winchester.
Henry gave himself over completely to the justiciar, whom he rewarded for his faithful service
by making him Earl of Kent. In deep disgust Bishop Peter left the court to carry out his long-deferred
crusading vows. For four years he was absent in Palestine, where his military talents had ample
scope as one of the leaders of Frederick II.'s army, while his diplomatic skill sought, with
less result, to preserve some sort of relations between the excommunicated emperor and the
new pope, Gregory IX., who in this same year succeeded Honorius. In April Gregory renewed the
bull of 1223 in which his predecessor recognised Henry's competence to govern.

Thus ended the first minority since the Conquest. The successful restoration of law and order
when the king was a child, showed that a strong king was not absolutely necessary for good
government. From the exercise of royal authority by ministers without the personal intervention
of the monarch arose the ideas of limited monarchy, the responsibility of the official, and
the constitutional rights of the baronial council to appoint ministers and control the administration.
We also discern, almost for the first time, the action of an inner ministerial council which
was ultimately to develop into the consilium ordinarium of a later age.

No sudden changes attended the royal majority. Those who had persuaded Henry to dismiss Bishop
Peter had no policy beyond getting rid of a hated rival. The new Earl of Kent continued to
hold office as justiciar for five years, and his ascendency is even more marked in the years
1227 to 1232 than it had been between 1224 and 1227. Hubert still found the task of ruling
England by no means easy. With the mitigation of home troubles foreign affairs assumed greater
importance, and England's difficulties with France, the efforts to establish cordial relations
with the empire, the ever-increasing aggressions of Llewelyn of Wales, and the chronic troubles
of Ireland, involved the country in large expenses with little compensating advantage. Not
less uneasy were the results of the growing encroachments of the papacy and the increasing
inability of the English clergy to face them. Papal taxation, added to the burden of national
taxation, induced discontent that found a ready scapegoat in the justiciar. The old and the
new baronial opposition combined to denounce Hubert as the true cause of all evils. The increasing
personal influence of the young king complicated the situation. In his efforts to deal with
all these problems Hubert became involved in the storm of obloquy which finally brought about
his fall.

At the accession of Henry III., the truce for five years concluded between his father and Philip
Augustus on September 18, 1214, had still three years to run. The expedition of Louis to England
might well seem to have broken it, but the prudent disavowal by Philip II. of his son's sacrilegious
enterprise made it a point of policy for the French King to regard it as still in force, and
neither John nor the earl marshal had a mind to face the enmity of the father as well as the
invasion of the son. Accordingly the truce ran out its full time, and in 1220 Honorius III.,
ever zealous for peace between Christian sovereigns, procured its prolongation for four years.
Before this had expired, the accession of Louis VIII. in 1223 raised the old enemy of King
Henry to the throne of France. Louis still coveted the English throne, and desired to complete
the conquest of Henry's French dominions in France. His accession soon involved England in
a new struggle, luckily delayed until the worst of the disorders at home had been overcome.

Peace was impossible because Louis, like Philip, regarded the forfeiture of John as absolute,
and as involving the right to deny to Henry III. a legitimate title to any of his lands beyond
sea. Henry, on the other hand, was still styled Duke of Normandy, Count of Anjou, Count of
Poitou, and Duke of Aquitaine. Claiming all that his father had held, he refused homage to
Philip or Louis for such French lands as he actually possessed. For the first time since the
Conquest, an English king ruled over extensive French territories without any feudal subjection
to the King of France. However, Henry's French lands, though still considerable, were but a
shadow of those once ruled by his father. Philip had conquered all Normandy, save the Channel
Islands, and also the whole of Anjou and Touraine. For a time he also gained possession of
Poitou, but before his death nearly the whole of that region had slipped from his grasp. Poitiers,
alone of its great towns, remained in French hands. For the rest, both the barons and cities
of Poitou acknowledged the over-lordship of their English count. Too much importance must not
be ascribed to this revival of the English power. Henry claimed very little domain in Poitou,
which practically was divided between the feudal nobles and the great communes. So long as
they maintained a virtual freedom, they were indifferent as to their overlord. If they easily
transferred their allegiance from Philip to Henry, it was because the weakness of absentee
counts was less to be dreaded than the strength of a monarch near at hand. Meanwhile the barons
carried on their feuds one against the other, and all alike joined in oppressing the townsmen.

During Henry's minority the crown was not strong enough to deal with the unruly Foitevins.
Seneschals quickly succeeded each other; the barons expected the office to be filled by one
of their own order, and the towns, jealous of hostile neighbours, demanded the appointment
of an Englishman. At last, in 1221, Savary de Mauléon, one of King John's mercenaries, a poet,
and a crusader against infidels and Albigenses, was made seneschal. His English estates ensured
some measure of fidelity, and his energy and experience were guarantees of his competence,
though, as a younger member of the great house of Thouars, he belonged by birth to the inner
circle of the Poitevin nobility, whose treachery, levity, and self-seeking were proverbial.
The powerful Viscounts of Thouars were constantly kept in check by their traditional enemies
the Counts of La Marche, whose representative, Hugh of Lusignan, was by far the strongest of
the local barons. His cousin, and sometime betrothed, Isabella, Countess of Angoulême, the
widow of King John, had left England to resume the administration of her dominions. Early in
1220 she married Hugh, justifying herself to her son on the ground that it would be dangerous
to his interests if the Count of La Marche should contract an alliance with the French party.
But this was mere excuse. The union of La Marche and Angoulême largely increased Count Hugh's
power, and he showed perfect impartiality in pursuing his own interests by holding a balance
between his stepson and the King of France. Against him neither Savary nor the Poitevin communes
could contend with success. The anarchy of Poitou was an irresistible temptation to Louis VII.
"Know you," he wrote to the men of Limoges, "that John, king of England, was deprived by the
unanimous judgment of his peers of all the lands which he held of our father Philip. We have
now received in inheritance all our father's rights, and require you to perform the service
that you owe us." While the English government weakly negotiated for the prolongation of the
truce, and for the pope's intervention, Louis concluded treaties with the Poitevin barons,
and made ready an army to conquer his inheritance. Foremost among his local partisans appeared
Henry's stepfather.

The French army met at Tours on June 24, 1224, and marched through Thouars to La Rochelle,
the strongest of the Poitevin towns, and the most devoted to England. On the way Louis forced
Savary de Mauléon to yield up Niort, and to promise to defend no other place than La Rochelle,
before which city he sat down on July 15. At first Savary resisted vigorously. The siege of
Bedford, however, prevented the despatch of effective help from England, and Savary was perhaps
already secretly won over by Louis. Be this as it may, the town surrendered on August 3, and
with it went all Aquitaine north of the Dordogne. Savary took service with the conqueror, and
was made warden of La Rochelle and of the adjacent coasts, while Lusignan received the reward
of his treachery in a grant of the Isle of Oléron. When Louis returned to the north, the Count
of La Marche undertook the conquest of Gascony. He soon made himself master of St. Emilion,
and of the whole of Périgord. The surrender of La Réole opened up the passage of the Garonne,
and the capture of Bazas gave the French a foothold to the south of that river. Only the people
of Bordeaux showed any spirit in resisting Hugh. But their resistance proved sufficient, and
he withdrew baffled before their walls.

The easiness of Louis' conquests showed their instability. "I am sure," wrote one of Henry's
officers, "that you can easily recover all that you have lost, if you send speedy succour to
these regions." After the capture of Bedford, Hubert undertook the recovery of Poitou and the
defence of Gascony. Henry's younger brother Richard, a youth of sixteen, was appointed Earl
of Cornwall and Count of Poitou, dubbed knight by his brother, and put in nominal command of
the expedition despatched to Gascony in March, 1225. His experienced uncle, William Longsword,
Earl of Salisbury, and Philip of Aubigny, were sent with him as his chief counsellors. Received
with open arms by Bordeaux, he boasted on May 2 that he had conquered all Gascony, save La
Réole, and had received the allegiance of every Gascon noble, except Elie Rudel, the lord of
Bergerac. The siege of La Réole, the only serious military operation of the campaign, occupied
Richard all the summer and autumn, and it was not until November 13 that the burgesses opened
their gates. As soon as the French had retired, the lord of Bergerac, "after the fashion of
the Poitevins," renounced Louis and professed himself the liegeman of Earl Richard. Then the
worst trouble was that Savary de Mauléon's ships commanded the Bay of Biscay, and rendered
communication between Bordeaux and England very difficult.[1] Once more the men of the Cinque
Ports came to the king's aid, and there was severe fighting at sea, involving much plunder
of merchant vessels and dislocation of trade.

The English sought to supplement their military successes by diplomacy. Richard of Cornwall
made an alliance with the counts of Auvergne, and the home administration negotiated with all
possible enemies of the French King. A proposal to affiance Henry's sister, Isabella, to Henry,
King of the Romans, the infant son of Frederick II., led to no results, for the Archbishop
of Cologne, the chief upholder of the scheme in Germany, was murdered, and the young king found
a bride in Austria. Yet the project counteracted the negotiations set on foot by Louis to secure
Frederick II. for his own side, and induced the Emperor to take up a position of neutrality.
An impostor appeared in Flanders who gave out that he was the old Count Baldwin, sometime Latin
Emperor of the East, who had died in prison in Bulgaria twenty years before. Baldwin's daughter,
Joan, appealed to Louis for support against the false Baldwin, whereupon Henry recognised his
claims and sought his alliance. Nothing but the capture and execution of the impostor prevented
Henry from effecting a powerful diversion in Flanders. Peter Mauclerc, Count of Brittany, was
won over by an offer of restitution to his earldom of Richmond, and by a promise that Henry
would marry his daughter Iolande. Intrigues were entered into with the discontented Norman
nobles, and the pope was importuned to save Henry from French assaults at the same moment that
the king made a treaty of alliance with his first cousin, the heretical Raymond VII. of Toulouse.
Honorius gave his ward little save sympathy and good advice. His special wish was to induce
Louis to lead a French expedition into Languedoc against the Albigensian heretics. As soon
as Louis resolved on this, the pope sought to prevent Henry from entering into unholy alliance
with Raymond. It was the crusade of 1226, not the good-will of the Pope or the fine-drawn English
negotiations, which gave Gascony a short respite. Louis VIII. died on November 8 in the course
of his expedition, and the Capetian monarchy became less dangerous during the troubles of a
minority, in which his widow, Blanche, strove as regent to uphold the throne of their little
son, Louis IX.

The first months of Louis IX.'s reign showed how unstable was any edifice built upon the support
of the treacherous lords of Poitou. Within six weeks of Louis VIII.'s death, Hugh of Lusignan,
the viscount of Thouars, Savary de Mauléon, and many other Poitevin barons, concluded treaties
with Richard of Cornwall, by which in return for lavish concessions they went back to the English
obedience. In the spring of 1227, however, the appearance of a French army south of the Loire
caused these same lords to make fresh treaties with Blanche. Peter of Brittany also became
friendly with the French regent, and gave up his daughter's English marriage. With allies so
shifty, further dealings seemed hopeless. Before Easter, Richard patched up a truce and went
home in disgust. The Capetians lost Poitou, but Henry failed to take advantage of his rival's
weakness, and the real masters of the situation were the local barons. Fifteen more years were
to elapse before the definitive French conquest of Poitou.

During the next three years the good understanding between the Bretons, the Poitevins, and
the regent Blanche came to an end, and the progress of the feudal reaction against the rule
of the young King of France once more excited hopes of improving Henry's position in south-western
France. Henry III. was eager to win back his inheritance, though Hubert de Burgh had little
faith in Poitevin promises, and, conscious of his king's weakness, managed to prolong the truce,
until July 22, 1229. Three months before that, Blanche succeeded in forcing the unfortunate
Raymond VII. to accept the humiliating treaty of Meaux, which assured the succession to his
dominions to her second son Alfonse, who was to marry his daughter and heiress, Joan. The barons
of the north and west were not yet defeated, and once more appealed to Henry to come to their
aid. Accordingly, the English king summoned his vassals to Portsmouth on October 15 for a French
campaign. When Henry went down to Portsmouth he found that there were not enough ships to convey
his troops over sea. Thereupon he passionately denounced the justiciar as an "old traitor,"
and accused him of being bribed by the French queen. Nothing but the intervention of Randolph
of Chester, Hubert's persistent enemy, put an end to the undignified scene.

Count Peter of Brittany, who arrived at Portsmouth on the 9th, did homage to Henry as King
of France, and received the earldom of Richmond and the title of Duke of Brittany which he
had long coveted, but which the French government refused to recognise. He persuaded Henry
to postpone the expedition until the following spring. When that time came Henry appointed
Ralph Neville, the chancellor, and Stephen Segrave, a rising judge, as wardens of England,
and on May 1, 1230, set sail from Portsmouth. It was the first time since 1213 that an English
king had crossed the seas at the head of an army, and every effort was made to equip a sufficient
force. Hubert the justiciar, Randolph of Chester, William the marshal, and most of the great
barons personally shared in the expedition, and the ports of the Channel, the North Sea, and
the Bay of Biscay were ransacked to provide adequate shipping. Many Norman vessels served as
transports, apparently of their owners' free-will.

On May 3 Henry landed at St. Malo, and thence proceeded to Dinan, the meeting-place assigned
for his army, the greater part of which landed at Port Blanc, a little north of Tréguier. Peter
Mauclerc joined him, and a plan of operations was discussed. The moment was favourable, for
a great number of the French magnates were engaged in war against Theobald, the poet-count
of Champagne, and the French army, which was assembled at Angers, represented but a fraction
of the military strength of the land. Fulk Paynel, a Norman baron who wished to revive the
independence of the duchy, urged Henry to invade Normandy. Hubert successfully withstood this
rash proposal, and also Fulk's fatal suggestion that Henry should divide his army and send
two hundred knights for the invasion of Normandy. Before long the English marched through Brittany
to Nantes, where they wasted six weeks. At last, on the advice of Hubert, they journeyed south
into Poitou. The innate Poitevin instability had again brought round the Lusignans, the house
of Thouars, and their kind to the French side, and Henry found that his own mother did her
best to obstruct his progress. He was too strong to make open resistance safe, and his long
progress from Nantes to Bordeaux was only once checked by the need to fight his way. This opposition
came from the little town and castle of Mirambeau, situated in Upper Saintonge, rather more
than half-way between Saintes and Blaye.[1] From July 21 to 30 Mirambeau stoutly held out,
but Henry's army was reinforced by the chivalry of Gascony, and by a siege-train borrowed from
Bordeaux and the loyal lords of the Garonne. Against such appliances of warfare Mirambeau could
not long resist. On its capitulation Henry pushed on to Bordeaux.

    [1] E. Berger, Bibl. Ecole des Chartes, 1893, pp. 35-36,
    shows that Mirambeau, not Mirebeau, was besieged by Henry; see
    also his Blanche de Castille (1895).

Useless as the march through Poitou had been, it was then repeated in the reverse way. With
scarcely a week's rest, Henry left the Gascon capital on August 10, and on September 15 ended
his inglorious campaign at Nantes. Although he was unable to assert himself against the faithless
Poitevins, the barons of the province were equally impotent to make head against him. On reaching
Brittany, Hubert once more stopped further military efforts. After a few days' rest at Nantes,
Henry made his way by slow stages through the heart of Brittany. It was said that his army
had no better occupation than teaching the local nobles to drink deep after the English fashion.
The King had wasted all his treasure, and the poorer knights were compelled to sell or pawn
their horses and arms to support themselves. The farce ended when the King sailed from St.
Pol de Leon, and late in October landed at Portsmouth. He left a portion of his followers in
Brittany, under the Earls of Chester and Pembroke. Randolph himself, as a former husband of
Constance of Brittany, had claims to certain dower lands which appertained to Count Peter's
mother-in-law. He was put in possession of St. James de Beuvron, and thence he raided Normandy
and Anjou. By this time the coalition against the count of Champagne had broken down, and Blanche
was again triumphant. It was useless to continue a struggle so expensive and disastrous, and
on July 4, 1231, a truce for three years was concluded between France, Brittany, and England.
Peter des Roches, then returning through France from his crusade, took an active part in negotiating
the treaty. Just as the king was disposed to make the justiciar the scapegoat of his failure,
Hubert's old enemy appeared once more upon the scene. The responsibility for blundering must
be divided among the English magnates, and not ascribed solely to their monarch. If Hubert
saved Henry from reckless adventures, he certainly deserves a large share of the blame for
the Poitevin fiasco.

The grave situation at home showed the folly of this untimely revival of an active foreign
policy. The same years that saw the collapse of Henry's hopes in Normandy and Poitou, witnessed
troubles both in Ireland and in Wales. In both these regions the house of the Marshals was
a menace to the neighbouring chieftains, and Hugh de Lacy, Earl of Ulster, and Llewelyn ap
Iorwerth, made common cause against it and vigorously attacked their rivals both in Leinster
and in South Wales. Nor was this the only disturbance. The summons of the Norman chieftains
of Ireland to Poitou gave the king of Connaught a chance of attacking the justiciar of Ireland,
Geoffrey Marsh, who ultimately drove the Irish back with severe loss. Llewelyn was again as
active and hostile as ever. Irritated by the growing strength of the new royal castle of Montgomery,
he laid siege to it in 1228. Hubert de Burgh, then castellan of Montgomery, could only save
his castle by summoning the levies of the kingdom. At their head Hubert went in person to hold
the field against Llewelyn, taking the king with him. The Welsh withdrew as usual before a
regular army, and Hubert and the king, late in September, marched a few miles westwards of
Montgomery to the vale of Kerry, where they erected a castle. But Llewelyn soon made the English
position in Kerry untenable. Many of the English lords were secretly in league with him, and
the army suffered severely from lack of food. In the fighting that ensued the Welsh got the
better of the English, taking prisoner William de Braose, the heir of Builth, and one of the
greatest of the marcher lords. At last king and justiciar were glad to agree to demolish the
new castle on receiving from Llewelyn the expenses involved in the task. The dismantled ruin
was called "Hubert's folly". "And then," boasts the Welsh chronicler, "the king returned to
England with shame."

In 1230 Llewelyn inflicted another slight upon his overlord. William de Braose long remained
the Welsh prince's captive, and only purchased his liberty by agreeing to wed his daughter
to Llewelyn's son, and surrendering Builth as her marriage portion. The captive had employed
his leisure in winning the love of Llewelyn's wife, Joan, Henry's half-sister. At Easter, Llewelyn
took a drastic revenge on the adulterer. He seized William in his own castle at Builth, and
on May 2 hanged him on a tree in open day in the presence of 900 witnesses. Finding that neither
the king nor the marchers moved a finger to avenge the outrage done to sister and comrade,
Llewelyn took the aggressive in regions which had hitherto been comparatively exempt from his
assaults. In 1231 he laid his heavy hand on all South Wales, burning down churches full of
women, as the English believed, and signalling out for special attack the marshal's lands in
Gwent and Pembroke. Once more the king penetrated with his barons into Mid Wales, while the
pope and archbishop excommunicated Llewelyn and put his lands under interdict. Yet neither
temporal nor spiritual arms were of avail against the Welshman. Henry's only exploit in this,
his second Welsh campaign, was to rebuild Maud's Castle in stone. He withdrew, and in December
agreed to conclude a three years' truce, and procure Llewelyn's absolution. Hubert once more
bore the blame of his master's failure.

On July 9, 1228, Stephen Langton died. Despite their differences as to the execution of the
charters, his removal lost the justiciar a much-needed friend. Affairs were made worse by the
unteachable folly of the monks of Christ Church. Regardless of the severe warning which they
had received in the storms that preceded the establishment of Langton's authority, the chapter
forthwith proceeded to the election of their brother monk, Walter of Eynsham. The archbishop-elect
was an ignorant old monk of weak health and doubtful antecedents, and Gregory IX. wisely refused
to confirm the election. On the recommendation of the king and the bishops, Gregory himself
appointed as archbishop Richard, chancellor of Lincoln, an eloquent and learned secular priest
of handsome person, whose nickname of "le Grand" was due to his tall stature. The first Archbishop
of Canterbury since the Conquest directly nominated by the pope--for even in Langton's case
there was a form of election--Richard le Grand at once began to quarrel with the justiciar,
demanding that he should surrender the custody of Tunbridge castle on the ground of some ancient
claim of the see of Canterbury. Failing to obtain redress in England, Richard betook himself
to Rome in the spring of 1231. There he regaled the pope's ears with the offences of Hubert,
and of the worldly bishops who were his tools. In August, Richard's death in Italy left the
Church of Canterbury for three years without a pastor.

While Gregory IX. did more to help Henry against Louis than Honorius III., the inflexible character
and lofty hierarchical ideals of this nephew of Innocent III. made his hand heavier on the
English Church than that of his predecessor. Above all, Gregory's expenses in pursuing his
quarrel with Frederick II. made the wealth of the English Church a sore temptation to him.
With his imposition of a tax of one-tenth on all clerical property to defray the expenses of
the crusade against the emperor, papal taxation in England takes a newer and severer phase.
The rigour with which Master Stephen, the pope's collector, extorted the tax was bitterly resented.
Not less loud was the complaint against the increasing numbers of foreign ecclesiastics forced
into English benefices by papal authority, and without regard for the rights of the lawful
patrons and electors. A league of aggrieved tax-payers and patrons was formed against the Roman
agents. At Eastertide, 1232, bands of men, headed by a knight named Robert Twenge, who took
the nickname of William Wither, despoiled the Romans of their gains, and distributed the proceeds
to the poor. These doings were the more formidable from their excellent organisation, and the
strong sympathy everywhere extended to them. Hubert, who hated foreign interference, did nothing
to stop Twenge and his followers. His inaction further precipitated his ruin. Archbishop Richard
had already poisoned the pope's mind against him, and his suspected connivance with the anti-Roman
movement completed his disfavour. Bitter letters of complaint arrived in England denouncing
the outrages inflicted on the friends of the apostolic see. It is hard to dissociate the pope's
feeling in this matter from his rejection of the nomination of the king's chancellor, Ralph
Neville, Bishop of Chichester, to the see of Canterbury, as an illiterate politician.

The dislike of the taxes made necessary by the Welsh and French wars, such as the "scutage
of Poitou" and the "scutage of Kerry," swelled the outcry against the justiciar. So far back
as 1227 advantage had been taken of Henry's majority to exact large sums of money for the confirmation
of all charters sealed during his nonage. The barons made it a grievance that his brother Richard
was ill-provided for, and a rising in 1227 extorted a further provision for him from what was
regarded as the niggardliness of the justiciar. Nor did Hubert, with all his rugged honesty,
neglect his own interests. He secured for himself lucrative wardships, such as the custody
for the second time of the great Gloucester earldom, and of several castles, including the
not very profitable charge of Montgomery, and the important governorship of Dover. On the very
eve of his downfall he was made justice of Ireland. His brother was bishop of Ely, and other
kinsmen were promoted to high posts. He was satisfied that he spent all that he got in the
King's service, in promoting the interests of the kingdom, but his enemies regarded him as
unduly tenacious of wealth and office. All classes alike grew disgusted with the justiciar.
The restoration of the malign influence of Peter of Winchester completed his ruin. The king
greedily listened to the complaints of his old guardian against the minister who overshadowed
the royal power. At last, on July 29, 1232, Henry plucked up courage to dismiss him.

With Hubert's fall ends the second period of Henry's reign. William Marshal expelled the armed
foreigner. Hubert restored the administration to English hands. Matthew Paris puts into the
mouth of a poor smith who refused to fasten fetters on the fallen minister words which, though
probably never spoken, describe with sufficient accuracy Hubert's place in history: "Is he
not that most faithful Hubert who so often saved England from the devastation of the foreigners
and restored England to England?" Hubert was, as has been well said, perhaps the first minister
since the Conquest who made patriotism a principle of policy, though it is easy in the light
of later developments to read into his doings more than he really intended. But whatever his
motives, the results of his action were clear. He drove away the mercenaries, humbled the feudal
lords, and set limits to the pope's interference. He renewed respect for law and obedience
to the law courts. Even in the worst days of anarchy the administrative system did not break
down, and the records of royal orders and judicial judgments remain almost as full in the midst
of the civil war as in the more peaceful days of Hubert's rule. But it was easy enough to issue
proclamations and writs. The difficulty was to get them obeyed, and the work of Hubert was
to ensure that the orders of king and ministers should really be respected by his subjects.
He made many mistakes. He must share the blame of the failure of the Kerry campaign, and he
was largely responsible for the sorry collapse of the invasion of Poitou. He neither understood
nor sympathised with Stephen Langton's zeal for the charters. A straightforward, limited, honourable
man, he strove to carry out his rather old-fashioned conception of duty in the teeth of a thousand
obstacles. He never had a free hand, and he never enjoyed the hearty support of any one section
of his countrymen. Hated by the barons whom he kept away from power, he alienated the Londoners
by his high-handed violence, and the tax-payers by his heavy exactions. The pope disliked him,
the aliens plotted against him, and the king, for whom he sacrificed so much, gave him but
grudging support. But the reaction which followed his retirement made many, who had rejoiced
in his humiliation, bitterly regret it.

Three notable enemies of Hubert went off the stage of history within a few months of his fall.
The death of Richard le Grand has already been recorded. William Marshal, the brother-in-law
of the king, the gallant and successful soldier, the worthy successor of his great father,
came home from Brittany early in 1231. His last act was to marry his sister, Isabella, to Richard
of Cornwall. Within ten days of the wedding his body was laid beside his father in the Temple
Church at London. In October, 1232, died Randolph of Blundeville, the last representative of
the male stock of the old line of the Earls of Chester, and long the foremost champion of the
feudal aristocracy against Hubert. The contest between them had been fought with such chivalry
that the last public act of the old earl was to protect the fallen justiciar from the violence
of his foes. For more than fifty years Randolph had ruled like a king over his palatine earldom;
had, like his master, his struggles with his own vassals, and had perforce to grant to his
own barons and boroughs liberties which he strove to wrest from his overlord for himself and
his fellow nobles. He was not a great statesman, and hardly even a successful warrior. Yet
his popular personal qualities, his energy, his long duration of power, and his enormous possessions,
give him a place in history. His memory, living on long in the minds of the people, inspired
a series of ballads which vied in popularity with the cycle of Robin Hood,[1] though, unfortunately,
they have not come down to us. His estates were divided among his four sisters. His nephew,
John the Scot, Earl of Huntingdon, received a re-grant of the Chester earldom; his Lancashire
lands had already gone to his brother-in-law, William of Ferrars, Earl of Derby; other portions
of his territories went to his sister, the Countess of Arundel, and the Lincoln earldom, passing
through another sister, Hawise of Quincy, to her son-in-law, John of Lacy, constable of Chester,
raised the chief vassal of the palatinate to comital rank. None of these heirs of a divided
inheritance were true successors to Randolph. With him died the last of the great Norman houses,
tenacious beyond its fellows, and surpassing in its two centuries of unbroken male descent
the usual duration of the medieval baronial family. Its collapse made easier the alien invasion
which threatened to undo Hubert's work.

    [1] "Ich can rymes of Robyn Hode, and of Randolf erl of
    Chestre," Vision of Piers Plowman, i., 167; ii., 94.

CHAPTER III.

THE ALIEN INVASION.

With the dismissal of Hubert on July 29, 1232, Peter des Roches resumed his authority over
Henry III. Mindful of past failures, the bishop's aim was to rule through dependants, so that
he could pull the wires without making himself too prominent. His chief agents in pursuing
this policy were Peter of Rivaux, Stephen Segrave, and Robert Passelewe. Of these, Peter of
Rivaux was a Poitevin clerk, officially described as the bishop's nephew, but generally supposed
to have been his son. Stephen Segrave, the son of a small Leicestershire landholder, was a
lawyer who had held many judicial and administrative posts, including the regency during the
king's absence abroad in 1230. He abandoned his original clerical profession, received knighthood,
married nobly, and was the founder of a baronial house in the midlands. His only political
principle was obedience to the powers that were in the ascendant. Passelewe, a clerk who had
acted as the agent of Randolph of Chester and Falkes of Bréauté at the Roman court, was, like
Segrave, a mere tool.

The Bishop of Winchester began to show his hand. Between June 26 and July 11, nineteen of the
thirty-five sheriffdoms were bestowed on Peter of Rivaux for life. As Segrave was sheriff of
five shires, and the bishop himself had acquired the shrievalty of Hampshire, this involved
the transference of the administration of over two-thirds of the counties to the bishop's dependants.
On the downfall of Hubert, Segrave became justiciar. He was not the equal of his predecessors
either in personal weight or in social position, and did not aspire to act as chief minister.
The appointment of a mere lawyer to the great Norman office of state marks the first stage
in the decline, which before long degraded the justiciarship into a simple position of headship
over the judges, the chief justiceship of the next generation. Hubert's offices and lands were
divided among his supplanters. Peter of Rivaux became keeper of wards and escheats, castellan
of many castles on the Welsh march, and the recipient of even more offices and wardships in
Ireland than in England. The custody of the Gloucester earldom went to the Bishop of Winchester.
The last steps of the ministerial revolution were completed at the king's Christmas court at
Worcester. There Rivaux, who had yielded up before Michaelmas most of his shrievalties, was
made treasurer, with Passelewe as his deputy. Of the old ministers only the chancellor, Ralph
Neville, Bishop of Chichester, was suffered to remain in office. Finally the king's new advisers
imported a large company of Poitevin and Breton mercenaries, hoping with their help to maintain
their newly won position. The worst days of John seemed renewed.

The Poitevin gang called upon Hubert to render complete accounts for the whole period of his
justiciarship. When he pleaded that King John had given him a charter of quittance, he was
told that its force had ended with the death of the grantor. He was further required to answer
for the wrongs which Twenge's bands had inflicted on the servants of the pope. He was accused
of poisoning William Earl of Salisbury, William Marshal, Falkes de Bréauté, and Archbishop
Richard. He had prevented the king from contracting a marriage with a daughter of the Duke
of Austria; he had dissuaded the king from attempting to recover Normandy; he had first seduced
and then married the daughter of the King of Scots; he had stolen from the treasury a talisman
which made its possessor invincible in war and had traitorously given it to Llewelyn of Wales;
he had induced Llewelyn to slay William de Braose; he had won the royal favour by magic and
witchcraft, and finally he had murdered Constantine FitzAthulf.

Many of these accusations were so monstrous that they carried with them their own refutation.
It was too often the custom in the middle ages to overwhelm an enemy with incredible charges
for it to be fair to accuse the enemies of Hubert of any excessive malignity. The substantial
innocence of Hubert is clear, for the only charges brought against him were either errors of
judgment and policy, or incredible crimes. Nevertheless he was in such imminent danger that
he took sanctuary with the canons of Merton in Surrey. Thereupon the king called upon the Londoners
to march to Merton and bring their ancient foe, dead or alive, to the city. Randolph of Chester
interposed between his fallen enemy and the royal vengeance. He persuaded Henry to countermand
the march to Merton and to suffer the fallen justiciar to leave his refuge with some sort of
safe conduct. But the king was irritated to hear that Hubert had journeyed into Essex. Again
he was pursued, and once more he was forced to take sanctuary, this time in a chapel near Brentwood.
From this he was dragged by some of the king's household and brought to London, where he was
imprisoned in the Tower. The Bishop of London complained to the king of this violation of the
rights of the Church, and Hubert was allowed to return to his chapel. However, the levies of
Essex surrounded the precincts, and he was soon forced by hunger to surrender. He offered to
submit himself to the king's will, and was for a second time confined in the Tower. On November
10, he was brought before a not unfriendly tribunal, in which the malice of the new justiciar
was tempered by the baronial instincts of the Earls of Cornwall, Warenne, Pembroke, and Lincoln.
He made no effort to defend himself, and submitted absolutely to the judgment of the king.
It was finally agreed that he should be allowed to retain the lands which he had inherited
from his father, and that all his chattels and the lands that he had acquired himself should
be forfeited to the crown. Further, he was to be kept in prison in the castle of Devizes under
the charge of the four earls who had tried him.

Peter des Roches was soon in difficulties. The earls who had saved Hubert began to oppose the
whole administration. Their leader was Richard, Earl of Pembroke, the second son of the great
regent, and since his brother's death head of the house of Marshal. Richard was bitterly prejudiced
against the king and his courtiers by an attempt to refuse him his brother's earldom. A gallant
warrior, handsome and eloquent, pious, upright, and well educated, Richard, the best of the
marshal's sons, stood for the rest of his short life at the head of the opposition. He incited
his friends to refuse to attend a council summoned to meet at Oxford, on June 24, 1233. The
king would have sought to compel their presence, had not a Dominican friar, Robert Bacon, when
preaching before the court, warned him that there would be no peace in England until Bishop
Peter and his son were removed from his counsels. The friar's boldness convinced him that disaffection
was widespread, and he promised the magnates at a later council at London that he would, with
their advice, correct whatever he found there was need to reform. Meanwhile the Poitevins brought
into England fresh swarms of hirelings from their own land, and Peter des Roches urged Henry
to crush rebellion in the bud. As a warning to greater offenders, Gilbert Basset was deprived
of a manor which he had held since the reign of King John, and an attempt was made to lay violent
hands upon his brother-in-law, Richard Siward. The two barons resisted, whereupon all their
estates were transferred to Peter of Rivaux. Yet Richard Marshal still continued to hope for
peace, and, after the failure of earlier councils, set off to attend another assembly fixed
for August 1, at Westminster. On his way he learnt from his sister Isabella, the wife of Richard
of Cornwall, that Peter des Roches was laying a trap for him. In high indignation he took horse
for his Welsh estates, and prepared for rebellion.

The king summoned the military tenants to appear with horses and arms at Gloucester on the
14th. There Richard Marshal was declared a traitor and an invasion of his estates was ordered.
But the king had not sufficient resources to carry out his threats, and October saw the barons
once more wrangling with Henry at Westminster, and claiming that the marshal should be tried
by his peers. Peter of Winchester declared that there were no peers in England as there were
in France, and that in consequence the king had power to condemn any disloyal subject through
his justices. This daringly unconstitutional doctrine provoked a renewed outcry. The bishops
joined the secular magnates, and threatened their colleague with excommunication. A formidable
civil war broke out. Siward and Basset harried the lands of the Poitevins, while the marshal
made a close alliance with Llewelyn of Wales. The king still had formidable forces on his side.
Richard of Cornwall was persuaded by Bishop Peter to take up arms for his brother, and the
two new earls, John the Scot of Chester, and John de Lacy of Lincoln, joined the royal forces.
Hubert de Burgh took advantage of the increasing confusion to escape from Devizes castle to
a church in the town. Dragged back with violence to his prison, he was again, as at Brentwood,
restored to sanctuary through the exertions of the bishop of the diocese. There he remained,
closely watched by his foes, until October 30, when Siward and Basset drove away the guard,
and took him off with them to the marshal's castle of Chepstow.

The tide of war flowed to the southern march of Wales. Llewelyn and Richard Marshal devastated
Glamorgan, which, as a part of the Gloucester inheritance, was under the custody of the Bishop
of Winchester. They took nearly all its castles, including that of Cardiff. Thence they subdued
Usk, Abergavenny, and other neighbouring strongholds, while an independent army, including
the marshal's Pembrokeshire vassals and the men of the princes of South Wales, wasted months
in a vain attack on Carmarthen. The king's vassals were again summoned to Gloucester, whence
Henry led them early in November towards Chepstow, the centre of the marshal's estates in Gwent.
Earl Richard devastated his lands so effectively that the king could not support his army on
them, and was compelled to move up the Wye valley towards the castles of Monmouth, Skenfrith,
Whitecastle, and Grosmont, the strong quadrilateral of Upper Gwent which still remained in
the hands of the king's friends. Marching to the most remote of these, Grosmont, on the upper
Monnow, Henry spent several days in the castle, while his army lay around under canvas. On
the night of November 11, the sleeping soldiers were suddenly set upon by the barons and their
Welsh allies; they fled unarmed to the castle, or scattered in confusion. The assailants seized
their horses, harness, arms and provisions, but refrained from slaying or capturing them. The
royal forces never rallied. Many gladly went home, giving as their excuse that they were unable
to fight since they had lost their equipment. Henry and his ministers withdrew to Gloucester.
More convinced than ever of the treachery of Englishmen, the king entrusted the defence of
the border castles to mercenaries from Poitou.

The fighting centred round Monmouth, which Richard approached on the 25th with a small company.
A sudden sortie almost overwhelmed the little band. The marshal held his own heroically against
twelve, until at last Baldwin of Guînes, the warden of the castle, took him prisoner. Thereupon
Baldwin fell to the ground, his armour pierced by a lucky bolt from a crossbow. His followers,
smitten with panic, abandoned the marshal, and bore their leader home. By that time, however,
the bulk of the marshal's forces had come upon the scene. A general engagement followed, in
which the Anglo-Welsh army drove the enemy back into Monmouth and took possession of the castle.
This set the marshal free to march northwards and join Llewelyn in a vigorous attack upon Shrewsbury.
In January, 1234, they burnt that town and retired to their own lands loaded with booty. Meanwhile
Siward devastated the estates of the Poitevins and of Richard of Cornwall. Afraid to be cut
off from his retreat to England the king abandoned Gloucester, where he had kept his melancholy
Christmas court, and found a surer refuge in Bishop Peter's cathedral city. Thereupon Gloucestershire
suffered the fate of Shropshire. "It was a wretched sight for travellers in that region to
see on the highways innumerable dead bodies lying naked and unburied, to be devoured by birds
of prey, and so polluting the air that they infected healthy men with mortal sickness."[1]

    [1] Wendover, iv., 291.

The king swore that he would never make peace with the marshal, unless he threw himself on
the royal mercy as a confessed traitor with a rope round his neck. Having, however, exhausted
all his military resources, he cunningly strove to entice Richard from Wales to Ireland. The
two Peters wrote to Maurice Fitzgerald, then justiciar of Ireland, and to the chief foes of
the marshal, urging them to fall upon his Irish estates and capture the traitor, dead or alive.
Many of the most powerful nobles of Ireland lent themselves to the conspiracy. The Lacys of
Meath, his old enemies, joined with Fitzgerald, Geoffrey Marsh, and Richard de Burgh, the greatest
of the Norman lords of Connaught, and the nephew of Hubert, in carrying out the plot. The confederates
fell suddenly upon the marshal's estates and devastated them with fire and sword. On hearing
of this attack Richard immediately left Wales, and, accompanied by only fifteen knights, took
ship for Ireland. On his arrival Geoffrey Marsh, the meanest of the conspirators, received
him with every profession of cordiality, and urged him to attack his enemies without delay.
Geoffrey was an old man; he had long held the great post of justiciar of Ireland; and he was
himself the liegeman of the marshal. Richard therefore implicitly trusted him, and forthwith
took the field.

The first warlike operations of Earl Richard were successful. After a short siege he obtained
possession of Limerick, and his enemies were fain to demand a truce. Richard proposed a conference
to be held on April 1, 1234, on the Curragh of Kildare. The conference proved abortive, for
Geoffrey Marsh cunningly persuaded the marshal to refuse any offer of terms which the magnates
would accept, and Richard found that he had been duped into taking up a position that he was
not strong enough to maintain. Marsh withdrew from his side, on the ground that he could not
fight against Lacy, whose sister he had married. The marshal foresaw the worst. "I know," he
declared, "that this day I am delivered over to death, but it is better to die honourably for
the cause of justice than to flee from the field and become a reproach to knighthood."

The forsworn Irish knights slunk away to neighbouring places of sanctuary or went over to the
enemy. When the final struggle came, later on the same April 1, Richard had few followers save
the faithful fifteen knights who had crossed over with him from Wales. The little band, outnumbered
by more than nine to one, struggled desperately to the end. At last the marshal, unhorsed and
severely wounded, fell into the hands of his enemies. They bore him, more dead than alive,
to his own castle of Kilkenny, which had just been seized by the justiciar. After a few days
Richard's tough constitution began to get the better of his wounds. Then his enemies, showing
him the royal warranty for their acts, induced him to admit them into his castles. An ignorant
or treacherous surgeon, called in by the justiciar, cauterised his wounds so severely that
his sufferings became intense. He died of fever on the 16th, and was buried, as he himself
had willed, in the Franciscan church at Kilkenny. No one rejoiced at the death of the hero
save the traitors who had lured him to his doom and the Poitevins who had suborned them. Their
victim, the weak king, mourned for his friend as David had lamented Saul and Jonathan.[1] The
treachery of his enemies brought them little profit. While Richard Marshal lay on his deathbed,
a new Archbishop of Canterbury drove the Poitevins from office.

    [1] Dunstable Ann., p. 137.

In the heyday of the Poitevins' power the Church sounded a feeble but clear note of alarm.
The pope expostulated with Henry for his treatment of Hubert de Burgh, and Agnellus of Pisa,
the first English provincial of the newly arrived Franciscan order, strove to reconcile Richard
Marshal with his sovereign in the course of the South-Welsh campaign. More drastic action was
necessary if vague remonstrance was to be translated into fruitful action. The three years'
vacancy of the see of Canterbury, after the death of Richard le Grand, paralysed the action
of the Church. After the pope's rejection of the first choice of the convent of Christ Church,
the chancellor, Ralph Neville, the monks elected their own prior, and him also Gregory refused
as too old and incompetent. Their third election fell upon John Blunt, a theologian high in
the favour of Peter des Roches, who sent him to Rome, well provided with ready money, to secure
his confirmation. Simon Langton, again restored to England, and archdeacon of Canterbury, persuaded
the pope to veto Blunt's appointment on the ground of his having held two benefices without
a dispensation. His rejection was the first check received by the Poitevin faction. It was
promptly followed by a more crushing blow. Weary of the long delay, Gregory persuaded the Christ
Church monks then present at Rome to elect Edmund Rich, treasurer of Salisbury. Edmund, a scholar
who had taught theology and arts with great distinction at Paris and Oxford, was still more
famous for his mystical devotion, for his asceticism and holiness of life. He was however an
old man, inexperienced in affairs, and, with all his gracious gifts, somewhat wanting in the
tenacity and vigour which leadership involved. Yet in sending so eminent a saint to Canterbury,
Rome conferred on England a service second only to that which she had rendered when she secured
the archbishopric for Stephen Langton.

Before his consecration as archbishop on April 2, 1234, Edmund had already joined with his
suffragans on February 2 in upholding the good fame of the marshal and in warning the king
of the disastrous results of preferring the counsels of the Poitevins to those of his natural-born
subjects. A week after his consecration Edmund succeeded in carrying out a radical change in
the administration. On April 9 he declared that unless Henry drove away the Poitevins, he would
forthwith pronounce him excommunicate. Yielding at once, Henry sent the Bishop of Winchester
back to his diocese, and deprived Peter of Rivaux of all his offices. The followers of the
two Peters shared their fate, and Henry, despatching Edmund to Wales to make peace with Llewelyn
and the marshal, hurried to Gloucester in order to meet the archbishop on his return. His good
resolutions were further strengthened by the news of Earl Richard's death. On arriving at Gloucester
he held a council in which the ruin of the Poitevins was completed. A truce, negotiated by
the archbishop with Llewelyn, was ratified. The partisans of the marshal were pardoned, even
Richard Siward being forgiven his long career of plunder. Gilbert Marshal, the next brother
of the childless Earl Richard, was invested with his earldom and office, and Henry himself
dubbed him a knight. Hubert de Burgh was included in the comprehensive pardon. Indignant that
his name and seal should have been used to cover his ex-ministers' treachery to Earl Richard,
Henry overwhelmed them with reproaches, and strove by his violence against them to purge himself
from complicity in their acts. The Poitevins lurked in sanctuary, fearing for the worst. Segrave
forgot his knighthood, resumed the tonsure, and took refuge in a church in Leicester. The king's
worst indignation was reserved for Peter of Rivaux. Peter protested that his orders entitled
him to immunity from arrest, but it was found that he wore a mail shirt under his clerical
garments, and, without a word of reproach from the archbishop, he was immured in a lay prison
on the pretext that no true clerk wore armour. Of the old ministers Ralph Neville alone remained
in office.

With Bishop Peter's fall disappeared the last of the influences that had prevailed during the
minority. The king, who felt his dignity impaired by the Poitevin domination, resolved that
henceforward he would submit to no master. He soon framed a plan of government that thoroughly
satisfied his jealous and exacting nature. Henceforth no magnates, either of Church or State,
should stand between him and his subjects. He would be his own chief minister, holding in his
own hands all the strings of policy, and acting through subordinates whose sole duly was to
carry out their master's orders. Under such a system the justiciarship practically ceased to
exist. The treasurership was held for short periods by royal clerks of no personal distinction.
Even the chancellorship became overshadowed. Henry quarrelled with Ralph Neville in 1238, and
withdrew from him the custody of the great seal, though he allowed him to retain the name and
emoluments of chancellor. On Neville's death the office fell into abeyance for nearly twenty
years, during which time the great seal was entrusted to seven successive keepers. Like his
grandfather, Henry wished to rule in person with the help of faithful but unobtrusive subordinates.
This system, which was essentially that of the French monarchy, presupposed for success the
constant personal supervision of an industrious and strong-willed king. Henry III was never
a strenuous worker, and his character failed in the robustness and self-reliance necessary
for personal rule. The magnates, who regarded themselves as the king's natural-born counsellors,
were bitterly incensed, and hated the royal clerks as fiercely as they had disliked the ministers
of his minority. Opposed by the barons, distrusted by the people, liable to be thrown over
by their master at each fresh change of his caprice, the royal subordinates showed more eagerness
in prosecuting their own private fortunes than in consulting the interests of the State. Thus
the nominal government of Henry proved extremely ineffective. Huge taxes were raised, but little
good came from them. The magnates held sullenly aloof; the people grumbled; the Church lamented
the evil days. Yet for five and twenty years the wretched system went on, not so much by reason
of its own strength as because there was no one vigorous enough to overthrow it.

The author of all this mischief was a man of some noble and many attractive qualities. Save
when an occasional outburst of temper showed him a true son of John, Henry was the kindest,
mildest, most amiable of men. He was the first king since William the Conqueror in whose private
life the austerest critics could find nothing blameworthy. His piety stands high, even when
estimated by the standards of the thirteenth century. He was well educated and had a touch
of the artist's temperament, loving fair churches, beautiful sculpture, delicate goldsmith's
work, and richly illuminated books. He had a horror of violence, and never wept more bitter
tears than when he learned how treacherously his name had been used to lure Richard Marshal
to his doom. But he was extraordinarily deficient in stability of purpose. For the moment it
was easy to influence him either for good or evil, but even the ablest of his counsellors found
it impossible to retain any hold over him for long. One day he lavished all his affection on
Hubert de Burgh; the next he played into the hands of his enemies. In the same way he got rid
of Peter des Roches, the preceptor of his infancy, the guide of his early manhood. Jealous,
self-assertive, restless, and timid, he failed in just those qualities that his subjects expected
to find in a king. Born and brought up in England, and never leaving it save for short and
infrequent visits to the continent, he was proud of his English ancestors and devoted to English
saints, more especially to royal saints such as Edward the Confessor and Edmund of East Anglia.
Yet he showed less sympathy with English ways than many of his foreign-born predecessors. Educated
under alien influences, delighting in the art, the refinement, the devotion, and the absolutist
principles of foreigners, he seldom trusted a man of English birth. Too weak to act for himself,
too suspicious to trust his natural counsellors, he found the friendship and advice for which
he yearned in foreign favourites and kinsmen. Thus it was that the hopes excited by the fall
of the Poitevins were disappointed. The alien invasion, checked for a few years, was renewed
in a more dangerous shape.

During the ten years after the collapse of Peter des Roches, swarms of foreigners came to England,
and spoiled the land with the king's entire good-will. Henry's marriage brought many Provençals
and Savoyards to England. The renewed troubles between pope and emperor led to a renewal of
Roman interference in a more exacting form. The continued intercourse with foreign states resulted
in fresh opportunities of alien influence. A new attempt on Poitou brought as its only result
the importation of the king's Poitevin kinsmen. The continued close relationship between the
English and the French baronage involved the frequent claim of English estates and titles by
men of alien birth. Even such beneficial movements as the establishment of the mendicant orders
in England, and the cosmopolitan outlook of the increasingly important academic class contributed
to the spread of outlandish ideas. As wave after wave of foreigners swept over England, Englishmen
involved them in a common condemnation. And all saw in the weakness of the king the very source
of their power.

The first great influx of foreigners followed directly from Henry's marriage. For several years
active negotiations had been going on to secure him a suitable bride. There had also at various
times been talk of his selecting a wife from Brittany, Austria, Bohemia, or Scotland, and in
the spring of 1235 a serious negotiation for his marriage with Joan, daughter and heiress of
the Count of Ponthieu, only broke down through the opposition of the French court. Henry then
sought the hand of Eleanor, a girl twelve years old, and the second of the four daughters of
Raymond Berengar IV., Count of Provence, and his wife Beatrice, sister of Amadeus III., Count
of Savoy. The marriage contract was signed in October. Before that time Eleanor had left Provence
under the escort of her mother's brother, William, bishop-elect of Valence. On her way she
spent a long period with her elder sister Margaret, who had been married to Louis IX. of France
in 1234. On January 14, 1236, she was married to Henry at Canterbury by Archbishop Edmund,
and crowned at Westminster on the following Sunday.

The new queen's kinsfolk quickly acquired an almost unbounded ascendency over her weak husband.
With the exception of the reigning Count Amadeus of Savoy, her eight maternal uncles were somewhat
scantily provided for. The prudence of the French government prevented them from obtaining
any advantage for themselves at the court of their niece the Queen of France, and they gladly
welcomed the opportunity of establishing themselves at the expense of their English nephew.
Self-seeking and not over-scrupulous, able, energetic, and with the vigour and resource of
high-born soldiers of fortune, several of them play honourable parts in the history of their
own land, and are by no means deserving of the complete condemnation meted out to them by the
English annalists.[1] The bishop-elect of Valence was an able and accomplished warrior. He
stayed on in England after accomplishing his mission, and with him remained his clerk, the
younger son of a house of Alpine barons, Peter of Aigueblanche, whose cunning and dexterity
were as attractive to Henry as the more martial qualities of his master. Weary of standing
alone, the king eagerly welcomed a trustworthy adviser who was outside the entanglements of
English parties, and made Bishop William his chief counsellor. It was believed that he was
associated with eleven others in a secret inner circle of royal advisers, whose advice Henry
pledged himself by oath to follow. Honours and estates soon began to fall thickly on William
and his friends. He made himself the mouthpiece of Henry's foreign policy. When he temporarily
left England, he led a force sent by the king to help Frederick II. in his war against the
cities of northern Italy. His influence with Henry did much to secure for his brother, Thomas
of Savoy, the hand of the elderly countess Joan of Flanders. With Thomas as the successor of
Ferdinand of Portugal, the rich Flemish county, bound to England by so many political and economic
ties, seemed in safe hands, and preserved from French influence. In 1238 Thomas visited England,
and received a warm welcome and rich presents from the king.

    [1] For Eleanor's countrymen see Mugnier, Les Savoyards en
    Angleterre au XIIIe siècle, et Pierre d'Aigueblanche, évêque
    d'Héreford (1890).

Despite the establishment of the Savoyards, the Poitevin influence began to revive. Peter des
Roches, who had occupied himself after his fall by fighting for Gregory IX. against the revolted
Romans, returned to England in broken health in 1236, and was reconciled to the king. Peter
of Rivaux was restored to favour, and made keeper of the royal wardrobe. Segrave and Passelewe
again became justices and ministers. England was now the hunting-ground of any well-born Frenchmen
anxious for a wider career than they could obtain at home.[1] Among the foreigners attracted
to England to prosecute legal claims or to seek the royal bounty came Simon of Montfort, the
second son of the famous conqueror of the Albigenses. Amice, the mother of the elder Simon,
was the sister and heiress of Robert of Beaumont, the last of his line to hold the earldom
of Leicester. After Amice's death her son used the title and claimed the estates of that earldom.
But these pretensions were but nominal, and since 1215 Randolph of Chester had administered
the Leicester lands as if his complete property. However, Amaury of Montfort, the Count of
Toulouse's eldest son, ceded to his portionless younger brother his claims to the Beaumont
inheritance, and in 1230 Simon went to England to push his fortunes. Young, brilliant, ambitious
and attractive, he not only easily won the favour of the king, but commended himself so well
to Earl Randolph that in 1231 the aged earl was induced to relax his grasp on the Leicester
estates. In 1239 the last formalities of investiture were accomplished. Amaury renounced his
claims, and after that Simon became Earl of Leicester and steward of England. A year before
that he had secured the great marriage that he had long been seeking. In January, 1238, he
was wedded to the king's own sister, Eleanor, the childless widow of the younger William Marshal.
Simon was for the moment high in the affection of his brother-in-law. To the English he was
simply another of the foreign favourites who turned the king's heart against his born subjects.

    [1] This is well illustrated by Philip de Beaumanoir's
    well-known romance, Jean de Dammartin et Blonde d'Oxford (ed.
    by Suchier, Soc. des anciens Textes français, and by Le Roux de
    Lincy, Camden Soc.).

In 1238 Peter des Roches died. With all his faults the Poitevin was an excellent administrator
at Winchester,[1] and left his estates in such a prosperous condition that Henry coveted the
succession for the bishop-elect of Valence, though William already had the prospect of the
prince-bishopric of liege. But the monks of St. Swithun's refused to obey the royal order,
and Henry sought to obtain his object from the pope. Gregory gave William both Liege and Winchester,
but in 1239 death ended his restless plans. William's death left more room for his kinsfolk
and followers. His clerk, Peter of Aigueblanche, returned to the land of promise, and in 1240
secured his consecration as Bishop of Hereford. William's brother, Peter of Savoy, lord of
Romont and Faucigny, was invited to England in the same year. In 1241 he was invested with
the earldom of Richmond, which a final breach with Peter of Brittany had left in the king's
hands. Peter, the ablest member of his house, thus became its chief representative in England.[2]

    [1] See H. Hall, Pipe Roll of the Bishop of Winchester,
    1207-8.

    [2] For Peter see Wurstemberger, Peter II., Graf von Savoyen
    (1856).

With the Provençals and Savoyards came a fresh swarm of Romans. In 1237 the first papal legates
a latere since the recall of Pandulf landed in England. The deputy of Gregory IX. was the cardinal-deacon
Otto, who in 1226 had already discharged the humbler office of nuncio in England. It was believed
that the legate was sent at the special request of Henry III., and despite the remonstrances
of the Archbishop of Canterbury. Those most unfriendly to the legate were won over by his irreproachable
conduct. He rejected nearly all gifts. He was unwearied in preaching peace; travelled to the
north to settle outstanding differences between Henry and the King of Scots, and thence hurried
to the west to prolong the truce with Llewelyn. His zeal for the reformation of abuses made
the canons of the national council, held under his presidency at St. Paul's on November 18,
1237, an epoch in the history of our ecclesiastical jurisprudence.

Despite his efforts the legate remained unpopular. The pluralists and nepotists, who feared
his severity, joined with the foes of all taxation and the enemies of all foreigners in denouncing
the legate. To avoid the danger of poison, he thought it prudent to make his own brother his
master cook. During the council of London it was necessary to escort him from his lodgings
and back again with a military force. In the council itself the claim of high-born clerks to
receive benefices in plurality found a spokesman in so respectable a prelate as Walter of Cantilupe,
the son of a marcher baron, whom Otto had just enthroned in his cathedral at Worcester, and
the legate, "fearing for his skin," was suspected of mitigating the severity of his principles
to win over the less greedy of the friends of vested interests. His Roman followers knew and
cared little about English susceptibilities, and feeling was so strong against them that any
mischance might excite an explosion. Such an accident occurred on St. George's day, April 23,
1238, when the legate was staying with the Austin Canons of Oseney, near Oxford, while the
king was six miles off at Abingdon. Some of the masters of the university went to Oseney to
pay their respects to the cardinal, and were rudely repulsed by the Italian porter. Irritated
at this discourtesy, they returned with a host of clerks, who forced their way into the abbey.
Amongst them was a poor Irish chaplain, who made his way to the kitchen to beg for food. The
chief cook, the legate's brother, threw a pot of scalding broth into the Irishman's face. A
clerk from the march of Wales shot the cook dead with an arrow. A fierce struggle followed,
in the midst of which Otto, hastily donning the garb of his hosts, took refuge in the tower
of their church, where he was besieged by the infuriated clerks, until the king sent soldiers
from Abingdon to release him. Otto thereupon laid Oxford under an interdict, suspended all
lectures, and put thirty masters into prison. English opinion, voiced by the diocesan, Grosseteste,
held that the cardinal's servants had provoked the riot, and found little to blame in the violence
of the clerks.

In 1239 Gregory IX. began his final conflict with Frederick II., and demanded the support of
all Europe. As before, from 1227 to 1230, the pressure of the papal necessity was at once felt
in England. The legate had to raise supplies at all costs. Crusaders were allowed to renounce
their vows for ready money. Every visitation or conference became an excuse for procurations
and fees. Presents were no longer rejected, but rather greedily solicited. On the pretence
that it was necessary to reform the Scottish Church, "which does not recognise the Roman Church
as its sole mother and metropolitan," Otto excited the indignation of Alexander II. by attempts
to extend his jurisdiction to Scotland, hitherto unvisited by legates. In England his claims
soon grew beyond all bearing. At last he demanded a fifth of all clerical goods to enable the
pope to finance the anti-imperial crusade. Even this was more endurable than the order received
from Rome that 300 clerks of Roman families should be "provided" to benefices in England in
order that Gregory might obtain the support of their relatives against Frederick. Both as feudal
suzerain and as spiritual despot, the pope lorded it over England as fully as his uncle Innocent
III.

Weakness, piety, and self-interest combined to make Henry III. acquiesce in the legate's exactions.
"I neither wish nor dare," said he, "to oppose the lord pope in anything." The union of king
and legate was irresistible. The lay opposition was slow and feeble. Gilbert Marshal, though
showing no lack of spirit, was not the man to play the part which his brother Richard had filled
so effectively. Richard, Earl of Cornwall, who constituted himself the spokesman of the magnates,
made a special grievance of the marriage of Simon of Montfort with his sister Eleanor. England,
he said, was like a vineyard with a broken hedge, so that all that went by could steal the
grapes. He took arms, and subscribed the first of the long series of plans of constitutional
reform that the reign was to witness, according to which the king was to be guided by a chosen
body of counsellors. But at the crisis of the movement he held back, having accomplished nothing.

There was more vigour in the ecclesiastical opposition. Robert Grosseteste,[1] a Suffolk man
of humble birth, had already won for himself a position of unique distinction at Oxford and
Paris. A teacher of rare force, a scholar of unexampled range, a thinker of daring originality,
and a writer who had touched upon almost every known subject, he was at the height of his fame
when, in 1235, his appointment as Bishop of Lincoln gave the fullest opportunities for the
employment of his great gifts in the public service. He was convinced that the preoccupation
of the clergy in worldly employment and the constant aggressions of the civil upon the ecclesiastical
courts lay at the root of the evils of the time. His conviction brought him into conflict with
the king rather than the legate, though for the moment his absorption in the cares of his diocese
distracted his attention from general questions. The bishops generally had become so hostile
that Otto shrank from meeting them in another council, and strove to get money by negotiating
individually with the leading churchmen. The old foe of papal usurpations, Robert Twenge, renewed
his agitation on behalf of the rights of patrons, and the clergy of Berkshire drew up a remonstrance
against Otto's extortions.

    [1] For Grosseteste, see F.S. Stevenson, Robert Grosseteste,
    Bishop of Lincoln (1899).

Archbishop Edmund saw the need of opposing both legate and king; but he was hampered by his
ecclesiastical and political principles, and still more, perhaps, by the magnitude of the rude
task thrown upon him. He had set before himself the ideal of St. Thomas, not only in the asceticism
of his private life, but in his zeal for his see and the Church. But few men were more unlike
the strong-willed and bellicose martyr of Canterbury than the gentle and yielding saint of
Abingdon. A plentiful crop of quarrels, however, soon showed that Edmund had, in one respect,
copied only too faithfully the example of his predecessor. He was engaged in a controversy
of some acerbity with the Archbishop of York, and he was involved in a long wrangle with the
monks of his cathedral, which took him to Rome soon after the legate's arrival. He got little
satisfaction there, and found a whole sea of troubles to overwhelm him on his return. At last
came the demand of the fifth from Otto. Edmund joined in the opposition of his brethren to
this exaction, but his attitude was complicated by his other difficulties. Leaning in his weakness
on the pope, he found that Gregory was a taskmaster rather than a director. At last he paid
his fifth, but, broken in health and spirits, he was of no mind to withstand the demands of
the Roman clerks for benefices. If he could not be another St. Thomas defending the liberties
of the Church, he could at least withdraw like his prototype from the strife, and find a refuge
in a foreign house of religion. Seeking out St. Thomas's old haunt at Pontigny, he threw himself
with ardour into the austere Cistercian life. On the advice of his physicians, he soon sought
a healthier abode with the canons of Soisy, in Brie, at whose house he died on November 16,
1240. His body was buried at Pontigny in the still abiding minster which had witnessed the
devotions of Becket and Langton, and miracles were soon wrought at his tomb. Within eight years
of his death he was declared a saint; and Henry, who had thwarted him in life, and even opposed
his canonisation, was among the first of the pilgrims who worshipped at his shrine. It needed
a tougher spirit and a stronger character than Edmund's to grapple with the thorny problems
of his age.

The retirement of the archbishop enabled Otto to carry through his business, and withdraw from
England on January 7, 1241. On August 21 Gregory IX. died, with his arch-enemy at the gates
of Rome and all his plans for the time frustrated. High-minded, able and devout, he wagered
the whole fortunes of the papacy on the result of his secular struggle with the emperor. In
Italy as in England, the spiritual hegemony of the Roman see and the spiritual influence of
the western Church were compromised by his exaltation of ecclesiastical politics over religion.

The monks of Christ Church won court favour by electing as archbishop, Boniface of Savoy, Bishop-elect
of Belley, one of the queen's uncles. There was no real resistance to the appointment, though
a prolonged vacancy in the papacy made it impossible for him to receive formal confirmation
until 1243, and it was not until 1244 that he condescended to visit his new province. Meanwhile
his kinsmen were carrying everything before them. Richard of Cornwall lost his first wife,
Isabella, daughter of William Marshal, in 1240, an event which broke almost the last link that
bound him to the baronial opposition. He withdrew himself from the troubles of English politics
by going on crusade, and with him went his former enemy, Simon of Leicester. Richard was back
in England early in 1242, and on November 23, 1243, his marriage with Sanchia of Provence,
the younger sister of the queens of France and England, completed his conversion to the court
party.

Henry III.'s cosmopolitan instincts led him to take as much part in foreign politics as his
resources allowed. In 1235 he married his sister Isabella to Frederick II., and henceforth
manifested a strong interest in the affairs of his imperial brother-in-law. His relations with
France were still uneasy, and he hoped to find in Frederick's support a counterpoise to the
steady pressure of French hostility. All England watched with interest the progress of the
emperor's arms. Peter of Savoy led an English contingent to fight for Frederick against the
Milanese, and Matthew Paris, the greatest of the English chroniclers, narrates the campaign
of Corte Nuova with a detail exceeding that which he allows to the military enterprises of
his own king. Frederick constantly corresponded with both the king and Richard of Cornwall,
and it was nothing but solicitude for the safely of the heir to the throne that led the English
magnates to reject the emperor's request that Richard should receive a high command under him.
Even Frederick's breach with the pope in 1239 did not destroy his friendship with Henry. The
situation became extremely complicated, since Innocent IV. derived large financial support
for his crusade from the unwilling English clergy, while Henry still professed to be Frederick's
friend. The king allowed Otto to proclaim Frederick's excommunication in England, and then
urged the legate to quit the country because the emperor strongly protested against the presence
of an avowed enemy at his brother-in-law's court. Neither pope nor emperor could rely upon
the support of so half-hearted a prince. Renewed trouble with France explains in some measure
the anxiety of Henry to remain in good relations with the emperor despite Frederick's quarrel
with the pope.

The position of the French monarchy was far stronger than it had been when Henry first intervened
in continental politics. Blanche of Castile had broken the back of the feudal coalition, and
even Peter Mauclerc had made his peace with the monarchy at the price of his English earldom.
Louis IX. attained his majority in 1235, and his first care was to strengthen his power in
his newly won dominions. If Poitou were still in the hands of the Count of La Marche and the
Viscount of Thouars, the royal seneschals of Beaucaire and Carcassonne after 1229 ruled over
a large part of the old dominions of Raymond of Toulouse. In 1237 the treaty of Meaux was further
carried out by the marriage of Raymond's daughter and heiress, Joan, to Alfonse, the brother
of the French king. In 1241 Alfonse came of age, and Louis at once invested him with Poitou
and Auvergne. The lords of Poitou saw that the same process which had destroyed the feudal
liberties of Normandy now endangered their disorderly independence. Hugh of Lusignan and his
wife had been present at Alfonse's investiture, and the widow of King John had gone away highly
indignant at the slights put upon her dignity.[1] She bitterly reproached her husband with
the ignominy involved in his submission. Easily moved to new treasons, Hugh became the soul
of a league of Poitevin barons formed at Parthenay, which received the adhesion of Henry's
seneschal of Gascony, Rostand de Sollers, and even of Alfonse's father-in-law, the depressed
Raymond of Toulouse. At Christmas Hugh openly showed his hand. He renounced his homage to Alfonse,
declared his adhesion to his step-son, Richard of Cornwall, the titular count of Poitou, and
ostentatiously withdrew from the court with his wife. The rest of the winter was taken up with
preparations for the forthcoming struggle.

    [1] See the graphic letter of a citizen of La Rochelle to
    Blanche, published by M. Delisle in Bibliothèque de l'Ecole
    des Chartes, série ii., iv., 513-55 (1856).

Untaught by experience, Henry III. listened to the appeals of his mother and her husband. Richard
of Cornwall, who came back from his crusade in January, 1242, was persuaded that he had another
chance of realising his vain title of Count of Poitou. But the king had neither men nor money
and the parliament of February 2 refused to grant him sums adequate for his need, so that,
despairing of dealing with his barons in a body, Henry followed the legate's example of winning
men over individually. He made a strong protest against the King of France's breach of the
existing truce, and his step-father assured him that Poitou and Gascony would provide him with
sufficient soldiers if he brought over enough money to pay them. Thereupon, leaving the Archbishop
of York as regent, Henry took ship on May 9 at Portsmouth and landed on May 13 at Royan at
the mouth of the Gironde. He was accompanied by Richard of Cornwall, seven earls, and 300 knights.

Meanwhile Louis IX. marshalled a vast host at Chinon, which from April to July overran the
patrimony of the house of Lusignan, and forced many of the confederate barons to submit. Peter
of Savoy and John Mansel, Henry's favourite clerk, then made seneschal of Gascony, assembled
the Aquitanian levies, while Peter of Aigueblanche, the Savoyard Bishop of Hereford, went to
Provence to negotiate the union between Earl Richard and Sanchia, and, if possible, to add
Raymond Berengar to the coalition against the husband of his eldest daughter. Henry hoped to
win tactical advantages by provoking Louis to break the truce, and mendaciously protested his
surprise at being forced into an unexpected conflict with his brother-in-law. Towards the end
of July, Louis, who had conquered all Poitou, advanced to the Charente, and occupied Taillebourg.
If the Charente were once crossed, Saintonge would assuredly follow the destinies of Poitou;
and the Anglo-Gascon army advanced from Saintes to dispute the passage of the river. On July
21 the two armies were in presence of each other, separated only by the Charente. Besides the
stone bridge at Taillebourg, the French had erected a temporary wooden structure higher up
the stream, and had collected a large number of boats to facilitate their passage. Seeing with
dismay the oriflamme waving over the sea of tents which, "like a great and populous city,"
covered the right bank, the soldiers of Henry retreated precipitately to Saintes. There was
imminent danger of their retreat being cut off, but Richard of Cornwall went to the French
camp, and obtained an armistice of a few hours, which gave his brother time to reach the town.

Next day Louis advanced at his ease to the capital of Saintonge. The Anglo-Gascons went out
to meet him, and, despite their inferior numbers, fought bravely amidst the vineyards and hollow
lanes to the west of the city. But the English king was the first to flee, and victory soon
attended the arms of the French. Immediately after the battle, the lords of Poitou abandoned
Richard for Alfonse. Henry fled from Saintes to Pons, from Pons to Barbezieux, and thence sought
a more secure refuge at Blaye, leaving his tent, the ornaments of his chapel, and the beer
provided for his English soldiers as booty for the enemy. The outbreak of an epidemic in the
French army alone prevented a siege of Bordeaux, by necessitating the return of St. Louis to
the healthier north. Henry lingered at Bordeaux until September, when he returned to England.[1]
Meanwhile the French dictated peace to the remaining allies of Henry. On the death of Raymond
of Toulouse, in 1249, Alfonse quietly succeeded to his dominions. The next twenty years saw
the gradual extension of the French administrative system to Poitou, Auvergne, and the Toulousain.
English Gascony was reduced to little more than the districts round Bordeaux and Bayonne. Even
a show of hostility was no longer useful, and on April 7, 1243, a five years' truce between
Henry and Louis was signed at Bordeaux. The marriage of Beatrice of Provence, the youngest
of the daughters of Raymond Berengar, to Charles of Anjou, Louis' younger brother, removed
Provence from the sphere of English influence. On his father-in-law's death in 1245, Charles
of Anjou succeeded to his dominions to the prejudice of his two English brothers-in-law, and
became the founder of a Capetian line of counts of Provence, which brought the great fief of
the empire under the same northern French influences which Alfonse of Poitiers was diffusing
over the lost inheritances of Eleanor of Aquitaine and the house of Saint-Gilles.

    [1] The only good modern account of this expedition is that by
    M. Charles Bémont, La campagne de Poitou, 1242-3, in Annales
    du Midi, v., 389-314 (1893). For the Lusignans see Boissonade,
    Quomodo comites Engolismenses erga reges Angliæ et Franciæ
    se gesserint, 1152-1328 (1893).

A minor result of Louis' triumph was the well-deserved ruin of Hugh of Lusignan and Isabella
of Angoulême. The proud spirit of Isabella did not long tolerate her humiliation. She retired
to Fontevraud and died there in 1246. Hugh X. followed her to the tomb in 1248. Their eldest
son, Hugh XI., succeeded him, but the rest of their numerous family turned for support to the
inexhaustible charity of the King of England. Thus in 1247 a Poitevin invasion of the king's
half-brothers and sisters recalled to his much-tried subjects the Savoyard invasion of ten
years earlier. In that single year three of the king's brothers and one of his sisters accepted
his invitation to make a home in England. Of these, Guy, lord of Cognac, became proprietor
of many estates. William, called from the Cistercian abbey in which he was born William of
Valence, secured, with the hand of Joan of Munchensi, a claim to the great inheritance that
was soon to be scattered by the extinction of the male line of the house of Marshal. Aymer
of Valence, a very unclerical churchman, obtained in 1250 his election as bishop of Winchester,
though his youth and the hostility of his chapter delayed his consecration for ten years. Alice
their sister found a husband of high rank in the young John of Warenne, Earl of Warenne or
Surrey, while a daughter of Hugh XI. married Robert of Ferrars, Earl of Ferrars or Derby. Others
of their kindred flocked to the land of promise. Any Poitevin was welcome, even if not a member
of the house of Lusignan. Thus the noble adventurer John du Plessis, came over to England,
married the heiress of the Neufbourg Earls of Warwick, and in 1247 was created Earl of Warwick.
The alien invasion took a newer and more grievous shape.

The expenses of the war were still to be paid; and in 1244 Henry assembled a council, declaring
that, as he had gone to Gascony on the advice of his barons, they were bound to make him a
liberal grant towards freeing him from the debts which he had incurred beyond sea. Prelates,
earls, and barons each deliberated apart, and a joint committee, composed of four members of
each order, drew up an uncompromising reply. The king had not observed the charters; previous
grants had been misapplied, and the abeyance of the great offices of state made justice difficult
and good administration impossible. The committee insisted that a justiciar, a chancellor,
and a treasurer should forthwith be appointed. This was the last thing that the jealous king
desired. Helpless against a united council, he strove to break up the solidarity between its
lay and clerical elements by laying a papal order before the prelates to furnish him an adequate
subsidy. The leader of the bishops was now Grosseteste, who from this time until his death
in 1253 was the pillar of the opposition. "We must not," he declared, "be divided from the
common counsel, for it is written that if we be divided we shall all die forthwith." At last
a committee of twelve magnates was appointed to draw up a plan of reform. The unanimity of
all orders was shown by the co-operation on this body of prelates such as Boniface of Savoy
with patriots of the stamp of Grosseteste and Walter of Cantilupe, while among the secular
lords, Richard of Cornwall and 'Simon of Leicester worked together with baronial leaders like
Norfolk and Richard of Montfichet, a survivor of the twenty-five executors of Magna Carta.
The obstinacy of the king may well have driven the estates into drawing up the remarkable paper
constitution preserved for us by Matthew Paris.[1] By it the execution of the charters and
the supervision of the administration were to be entrusted to four councillors, chosen from
among the magnates, and irremovable except with their consent. It is unlikely that the scheme
was ever carried out; but its conception shows an advance in the claims of the opposition,
and anticipates the policy of restraining an incompetent ruler by a committee responsible to
the estates, which, for the next two centuries, was the popular specific for royal maladministration.
For the moment neither side gained a decided victory. Though the barons persisted in their
refusal of an extraordinary grant, they agreed to pay an aid to marry the king's eldest daughter
to the son of Frederick II.

    [1] Chron. Maj., iv., 366-68.

Further demands arose from the quarrel between Innocent IV.' and the emperor. A new papal envoy,
Master Martin, came to England to extort from the clergy money to enable Innocent to carry
on his war against Frederick. The lords told Martin that if he did not quit the realm forthwith
he would be torn in pieces. In terror he prayed for a safe conduct. "May the devil give you
a safe conduct to hell," was the only reply that the angry Henry vouchsafed. Even his complaisance
was exhausted by Master Martin.

On July 26, 1245, a few weeks before Martin's expulsion, Innocent IV. opened a general council
at Lyons, in which Frederick was deposed from the imperial dignity. Grosseteste, the chief
English prelate to attend the gathering, was drawn in conflicting directions by his zeal for
pope against emperor and by his dislike of curialist exactions. This attitude of the bishop
is reflected in the remonstrance, in the name of the English people, laid before Innocent,
declaring the faithfulness of England to the Holy See and the wrongs with which her fidelity
had been requited. The increasing demands for money, the intrusion of aliens into English cures,
and Martin's exactions were set forth at length. Innocent refused to entertain the petition,
forced all the bishops at Lyons to join in the deprivation of the emperor, and required every
English bishop to seal with his own seal the document by which John had pledged the nation
to a yearly tribute. No one could venture to stand up against the successor of St. Peter, and
so, despite futile remonstrance, Innocent still had it all his own way. In 1250 Grosseteste
again met Innocent face to face at Lyons, and urged him to "put to flight the evils and purge
the abominations" which the Roman see had done so much to foster. But this outspoken declaration
was equally without result. Bold as were Grosseteste's words, he fully accepted the curialist
theory which regarded the pope as the universal bishop, the divinely appointed source of all
ecclesiastical jurisdiction. He could therefore do no more than protest. If the pope chose
to disregard him, there was nothing to be done but wait patiently for better times. The plague
of foreign ecclesiastics was still to torment the English Church for many a year.

The king's difficulties were increased by fresh troubles in Scotland and Wales. The friendship
between Henry and his brother-in-law, Alexander II., was weakened by the death of the Queen
of Scots and by Alexander's marriage to a French lady in 1239. At last, in 1244, relations
were so threatening that the English levies were mustered for a campaign at Newcastle. However,
on the mediation of Richard of Cornwall, Alexander bound himself not to make alliances with
England's enemies, and the trouble passed away. In Wales the difficulties were more complicated.
Llewelyn ap Iorwerth died in 1240, full of years and honour. In the last years of his reign
broken health and the revolts of his eldest son Griffith made the old chieftain anxious for
peace with England, as the best way of securing the succession to all his dominions of David,
his son by Joan of Anjou. Henry III., anxious that David as his nephew should inherit the principality,
granted a temporary cessation of hostilities. After Llewelyn's death David was accepted as
Prince of Snowdon, and made his way to Gloucester, where he performed homage, and was dubbed
knight by his uncle. Next year, however, hostilities broke out, and Henry, disgusted with his
nephew, made a treaty with the wife of Griffith, Griffith himself being David's prisoner. In
1241 Henry led an expedition from Chester into North Wales, and forced David to submit. He
surrendered Griffith to his uncle's safe keeping and promised to yield his principality to
Henry if he died without a son. Three years later Griffith broke his neck in an attempt to
escape from the Tower. The death of his rival emboldened David to take up a stronger line against
his uncle. A fresh Welsh expedition was necessary for the summer of 1245, in which the English
advanced to the Conway, but were speedily forced to retire. David held his own until his death,
without issue, in March, 1246, threw open the question of the Welsh succession.

CHAPTER IV.

POLITICAL RETROGRESSION AND NATIONAL PROGRESS.

The ten years from 1248 to 1258 saw the continuance of the misgovernment, discontent, and futile
opposition which have already been sufficiently illustrated. The history of those years must
be sought not so much in the relations of the king and his English subjects as in Gascony,
in Wales, in the crusading revival, and in the culmination of the struggle of papacy and empire.
In each of these fields the course of events reacted sharply upon the domestic affairs of England,
until at last the failures of Henry's foreign policy gave unity and determination to the party
of opposition whose first organised success, in 1258, ushered in the Barons' War.

The relations between England and France remained anomalous. Formal peace was impossible, since
France would yield nothing, and the English king still claimed Normandy and Aquitaine. Yet
neither Henry nor Louis had any wish for war. They had married sisters: they were personally
friendly, and were both lovers of peace. In such circumstances it was not hard to arrange truces
from time to time, so that from 1243 to the end of the reign there were no open hostilities.
In 1248 the friendly feeling of the two courts was particularly strong. Louis was on the eve
of departure for the crusade and many English nobles had taken the cross. Henry, who was himself
contemplating a crusade, was of no mind to avail himself of his kinsman's absence to disturb
his realm.

The French could afford to pass over Henry's neglect to do homage, for Gascony seemed likely
to emancipate itself from the yoke of its English dukes without any prompting from Paris. After
the failure of 1243, a limited amount of territory between the Dordogne and the Pyrenees alone
acknowledged Henry. This narrower Gascony was a thoroughly feudalised land: the absentee dukes
had little authority, domain, or revenue: and the chief lordships were held by magnates, whose
relations to their overlord were almost formal, and by municipalities almost as free as the
cities of Flanders or the empire. The disastrous campaign of Taiilebourg lessened the prestige
of the duke, and Henry quitted Gascony without so much as attempting to settle its affairs.
In the following years weak seneschals, with insufficient powers and quickly succeeding each
other, were unable to grapple with ever-increasing troubles. The feudal lords dominated the
countryside, pillaged traders, waged internal war and defied the authority of the duke. In
the autonomous towns factions had arisen as fierce as those of the cities of Italy. Bordeaux
was torn asunder by the feuds of the Rosteins and Colons. Bayonne was the scene of a struggle
between a few privileged families, which sought to monopolise municipal office, and a popular
opposition based upon the seafaring class. The neighbouring princes cast greedy eyes on a land
so rich, divided, and helpless. Theobald IV., the poet, Count of Champagne and King of Navarre,
coveted the valley of the Adour. Gaston, Viscount of Béarn, the cousin of Queen Eleanor, plundered
and destroyed the town of Dax. Ferdinand the Saint of Castile and James I. of Aragon severally
claimed all Gascony. Behind all these loomed the agents of the King of France. Either Gascony
must fall away altogether, or stronger measures must be taken to preserve it.

In this extremity Henry made Simon of Montfort seneschal or governor of Gascony, with exceptionally
full powers and an assured duration of office for seven years. Simon had taken the crusader's
vow, but was persuaded by the king to abandon his intention of following Louis to Egypt. He
at once threw himself into his rude task with an energy that showed him to be a true son of
the Albigensian crusader. In the first three months he traversed the duchy from end to end;
rallied the royal partisans; defeated rebels; kept external foes in check, and administered
the law without concern for the privileges of the great. In 1249 he crushed the Rostein faction
at Bordeaux. The same fate was meted out to their partisans in the country districts. Order
was restored, but the seneschal utterly disregarded impartiality or justice. He sought to rule
Gascony by terrorism and by backing up one faction against the other. It was the same with
minor cities, like Bazas and Bayonne, and with the tyrants of the countryside. The Viscount
of Fronsac saw his castle razed and his estates seized. Gaston of Béarn, tricked by the seneschal
out of the succession of Bigorre, was captured, sent to England, and only allowed to return
to his home, humiliated and powerless to work further evil. The lesser barons had to acknowledge
Simon their master. On the death of Raymond of Toulouse in 1249, his son-in-law and successor,
Alfonse of Poitiers, had all he could do to secure his inheritance, and was too closely bound
by the pacific policy of his brother to give Simon much trouble. The truce with France was
easily renewed by reason of St. Louis' absence on a crusade. The differences between Gascony
and Theobald of Navarre were mitigated in 1248 at a personal interview between Leicester and
the poet-king.

Gascony for the moment was so quiet that the rebellious hordes called the Pastoureaux, who
had desolated the royal domain, withdrew from Bordeaux in terror of Simon's threats. But the
expense of maintaining order pressed heavily on the seneschal's resources, and his master showed
little disposition to assist him. Moreover Gascony could not long keep quiet. There were threats
of fresh insurrections, and the whole land was burning with indignation against its governor.
Complaints from the Gascon estates soon flowed with great abundance into Westminster. For the
moment Henry paid little attention to them. His son Edward was ten years of age, and he was
thinking of providing him with an appanage, sufficient to support a separate household and
so placed as to train the young prince in the duties of statecraft. Before November, 1249,
he granted to Edward all Gascony, along with the profits of the government of Ireland, which
were set aside to put Gascony in a good state of defence. Simon's strong hand was now more
than ever necessary to keep the boy's unruly subjects under control. The King therefore continued
Simon as seneschal of Gascony, though henceforth the earl acted as Edward's minister. "Complete
happily," Henry wrote to the seneschal, "all our affairs in Gascony and you shall receive from
us and our heirs a recompense worthy of your services." For the moment Leicester's triumph
seemed complete, but the Gascons, who had hoped that Edward's establishment meant the removal
of their masterful governor, were bitterly disappointed at the continuance of his rule. Profiting
by Simon's momentary absence in England, they once more rose in revolt. Henry wavered for the
moment. "Bravely," declared he to his brother-in-law, "hast thou fought for me, and I will
not deny thee help. But complaints pour in against thee. They say that thou hast thrown into
prison, and condemned to death, folk who have been summoned to thy court under pledge of thy
good faith." In the end Simon was sent back to Gascony, and by May, 1251, the rebels were subdued.

Next year Gaston of Béarn stirred up another revolt, and, while Simon was in England, deputies
from the Aquitanian cities crossed the sea and laid new complaints before Henry. A stormy scene
ensued between the king and his brother-in-law. Threatened with the loss of his office, Simon
insisted that he had been appointed for seven years, and that he could not be removed without
his own consent. Henry answered that he would keep no compacts with traitors. "That word is
a lie," cried Simon; "were you not my king it would be an ill hour for you when you dared to
utter it." The sympathy of the magnates saved Leicester from the king's wrath, and before long
he returned to Gascony, still seneschal, but with authority impaired by the want of his sovereign's
confidence. Though the king henceforth sided with the rebels, Simon remained strong enough
to make headway against the lord of Béarn. Before long, however, Leicester unwillingly agreed
to vacate his office on receiving from Henry a sum of money. In September, 1252, he laid down
the seneschalship and retired into France. While shabbily treated by the king, he had certainly
shown an utter absence of tact or scruple. But the tumults of Gascony raged with more violence
than ever now that his strong hand was withdrawn. Those who had professed to rise against the
seneschal remained in arms against the king. Once more the neighbouring princes cast greedy
eyes on the defenceless duchy. In particular, Alfonso the Wise, King of Castile, who succeeded
his father Ferdinand in 1252, renewed his father's claims to Gascony.

The only way to save the duchy was for Henry to go there in person. Long delays ensued before
the royal visit took place, and it was not until August, 1253, that Bordeaux saw her hereditary
duke sail up the Gironde to her quays. The Gascon capital remained faithful, but within a few
miles of her walls the rebels were everywhere triumphant. It required a long siege to reduce
Bénauge to submission, and months elapsed before the towns and castles of the lower Garonne
and Dordogne opened their gates. Even then La Réole, whither all the worst enemies of Montfort
had fled, held out obstinately. Despairing of military success, Henry fell back upon diplomacy.
The strength of the Gascon revolt did not lie in the power of the rebels themselves but in
the support of the neighbouring princes and the French crown. By renewing the truce with the
representatives of Louis, Henry protected himself from the danger of French intervention, and
at the same time he cut off a more direct source of support to the rebels by negotiating treaties
with such magnates as the lord of Albret, the Counts of Comminges and Armagnac, and the Viscount
of Béarn. His master-stroke was the conclusion, in April, 1254, of a peace with Alfonso of
Castile, whereby the Spanish king abandoned his Gascon allies and renounced his claims on the
duchy. In return it was agreed that the lord Edward should marry Alfonso's half-sister, Eleanor,
heiress of the county of Ponthieu through her mother, Joan, whom Henry had once sought for
his queen. As Edward's appanage included Aquitaine, Alfonso, in renouncing his personal claims,
might seem to be but transferring them to his sister.

In May, 1254, Queen Eleanor joined Henry at Bordeaux. With her went her two sons, Edward and
Edmund, her uncle, Archbishop Boniface, and a great crowd of magnates. In August Edward went
with his mother to Alfonso's court at Burgos, where he was welcomed with all honour and dubbed
to knighthood by the King of Castile, and in October he and Eleanor were married at the Cistercian
monastery of Las Huelgas. His appanage included all Ireland, the earldom of Chester, the king's
lands in Wales, the Channel Islands, the whole of Gascony, and whatsoever rights his father
still had over the lands taken from him and King John by the Kings of France. Thus he became
the ruler of all the outlying dependencies of the English crown, and the representative of
all the claims on the Aquitanian inheritance of Eleanor and the Norman inheritance of William
the Conqueror. The caustic St. Alban's chronicler declared that Henry left to himself such
scanty possessions that he became a "mutilated kinglet".[1] But Henry was too jealous of power
utterly to renounce so large a share of his dominions. His grants to his son were for purposes
of revenue and support, and the government of these regions was still strictly under the royal
control. Yet from this moment writs ran in Edward's name, and under his father's direction
the young prince was free to buy his experience as he would. Soon after his son's return with
his bride, Henry III. quitted Gascony, making his way home through France, where he visited
his mother's tomb at Fontevraud and made atonement at Pontigny before the shrine of Archbishop
Edmund. Of more importance was his visit to King Louis, recently returned from his Egyptian
captivity. The cordial relations established by personal intercourse between the two kings
prepared the way for peace two years later.

    [1] Matthew Paris, Chron. Maj., v., 450.

Edward remained in Gascony about a year after his father. He checked with a stern hand the
disorders of his duchy, strove to make peace between the Rosteins and Colons, and failing to
do so, took in 1261 the decisive step of putting an end to the tumultuous municipal independence
of the Gascon capital by depriving the jurats of the right of choosing their mayor.[1] Thenceforth
Bordeaux was ruled by a mayor nominated by the duke or his lieutenant. Edward's rule in Gascony
has its importance as the first experiment in government by the boy of fifteen who was later
to become so great a king. Returning to London in November, 1255, he still forwarded the interests
of his Gascon subjects, and an attempt to protect the Bordeaux wine-merchants from the exactions
of the royal officers aroused the jealousy of Henry, who declared that the days of Henry II.
had come again, when the king's sons rose in revolt against their father. Despite this characteristic
wail, Edward gained his point. Yet his efforts to secure the well-being of Gascony had not
produced much result. The hold of the English duke on Aquitaine was as precarious under Edward
as it had been in the days of Henry's direct rule.

    [1] See Bémont, Rôles Gascons, i., supplément, pp.
    cxvi.-cxviii.

The affairs of Wales and Cheshire involved Edward in responsibilities even more pressing than
those of Gascony. On the death of John the Scot without heirs in 1237, the palatinate of Randolph
of Blundeville became a royal escheat. Its grant to Edward made him the natural head of the
marcher barons. The Cheshire earldom became the more important since the Welsh power had been
driven beyond the Conway. Since the death of David ap Llewelyn in 1246, divisions in the reigning
house of Gwynedd had continued to weaken the Welsh. Llewelyn and Owen the Red, the two elder
sons of the Griffith ap Llewelyn who had perished in attempting to escape from the Tower, took
upon themselves the government of Gwynedd, dividing the land, by the advice of the "good men,"
into two equal halves. The English seneschal at Carmarthen took advantage of their weakness
to seize the outlying dependencies of Gwynedd south of the Dovey. War ensued, for the brothers
resisted this aggression. But in April, 1247, they were forced to do homage at Woodstock for
Gwynedd and Snowdon. Henry retained not only Cardigan and Carmarthen, but the debatable lands
between the eastern boundary of Cheshire and the river Clwyd, the four cantreds of the middle
country or Perveddwlad, so long the scene of the fiercest warfare between the Celt and the
Saxon. Thus the work of Llewelyn ap Iorwerth was completely undone, and his grandsons were
confined to Snowdon and Anglesey, the ancient cradles of their house.

It suited English policy that even, the barren lands of Snowdon should be divided. As time
went on, other sons of Griffith ap Llewelyn began to clamour for a share of their grandfather's
inheritance. Owen, the weaker of the two princes, made common cause with them, and David, another
brother, succeeded in obtaining his portion of the common stock. Llewelyn showed himself so
much the most resourceful and energetic of the brethren that, when open war broke out between
them in 1254, he easily obtained the victory. Owen was taken prisoner, and David was deprived
of his lands. Llewelyn, thus sole ruler of Gwynedd, at once aspired to follow in the footsteps
of his grandfather. He overran Merioneth, and frightened the native chieftains beyond the Dovey
into the English camp. His ambitions were, however, rudely checked by the grant of Cheshire
and the English lands in Wales to Edward.

Besides the border palatinate, Edward's Welsh lands included the four cantreds of Perveddwlad,
and the districts of Cardigan and Carmarthen. Young as he was, he had competent advisers, and,
while he was still in Aquitaine, designs were formed of setting up the English shire system
in his Welsh lands, so as to supersede the traditional Celtic methods of government by feudal
and monarchical centralisation. Efforts were made to subject the four cantreds to the shire
courts at Chester; and Geoffrey of Langley, Edward's agent in the south, set up shire-moots
at Cardigan and Carmarthen, from which originated the first beginnings of those counties. The
bitterest indignation animated Edward's Welsh tenants, whether on the Clwyd or on the Teivi
and Towy. They rose in revolt against the alien innovators, and called upon Llewelyn to champion
their grievances. Llewelyn saw the chance of extending his tribal power into a national principality
over all Wales by posing as the upholder of the Welsh people. He overran the four cantreds
in a week, finding no resistance save before the two castles of Deganwy and Diserth. He conquered
Cardigan with equal ease, and prudently granted out his acquisition to the local chieftain
Meredith ap Owen. Nor were Edward's lands alone exposed to his assaults. In central Wales Roger
Mortimer was stripped of his marches on the upper Wye, and Griffith ap Gwenwynwyn, the lord
of upper Powys, driven from the regions of the upper Severn. In the spring of 1257 the lord
of Gwynedd appeared in regions untraversed by the men of Snowdon since the days of his grandfather.
He devastated the lands of the marchers on the Bristol Channel and slew Edward's deputy in
battle. "In those days," says Matthew Paris, "the Welsh saw that their lives were at stake,
so that those of the north joined together in indissoluble alliance with those of the south.
Such a union had never before been, since north and south had always been opposed." The lord
of Snowdon assumed the title of Prince of Wales.

Edward was forced to defend his inheritance. Henry III. paid little heed to his misfortunes,
and answered his appeal for help by saying: "What have I to do with the matter? I have given
you the land; you must defend it with your own resources. I have plenty of other business to
do." Nevertheless, Henry accompanied his son on a Welsh campaign in August, 1257. The English
army got no further than Deganwy, and therefore did not really invade Llewelyn's dominions
at all. After waiting idly on the banks of the Conway for some weeks, it retired home, leaving
the open country to be ruled by Llewelyn as he would, and having done nothing but revictual
the castles of the four cantreds. Next year a truce was made, which left Llewelyn in possession
of the disputed districts. Troubles at home were calling off both father and son from the Welsh
war, and thus Llewelyn secured his virtual triumph. Though fear of the progress of the lord
of Gwynedd filled every marcher with alarm, yet the dread of the power of Edward was even more
nearly present before them. The marcher lords deliberately stood aside, and the result was
inevitable disaster. Edward found that the territories handed over to him by his father had
to be conquered before they could be administered, and Henry III.'s methods of government made
it a hopeless business to find either the men or the money for the task.

England still resounded with complaints of misgovernment, and demands for the execution of
the charters. Before going to Bordeaux in 1253, Henry obtained from the reluctant parliament
a considerable subsidy, and pledged himself as "a man, a Christian, a knight, and a crowned
and anointed king," to uphold the charters. During his absence a parliament, summoned by the
regents, Queen Eleanor and Richard of Cornwall, for January, 1254, showed such unwillingness
to grant a supply that a fresh assembly was convened in April, to which knights of the shire,
for the first time since the reign of John, and representatives of the diocesan clergy, for
the first occasion on record, were summoned, as well as the baronial and clerical grandees.
Nothing came of the meeting save fresh complaints. The Earl of Leicester became the spokesman
of the opposition. Hurrying back from France he warned the parliament not to fall into the
"mouse-traps" laid for them by the king. In default of English money, enough to meet the king's
necessities was extorted from the Jews, recently handed over to the custody of Richard of Cornwall.
After his return from France at the end of 1254, Henry's renewed requests for money gave coherence
to the opposition. Between 1254 and 1258 the king's exactions, and an effective organisation
for withstanding them, developed on parallel lines. To the old sources of discontent were added
grievances proceeding from enterprises of so costly a nature that they at last brought about
a crisis.

The foremost grievance against the king was still his co-operation with the papacy in spoiling
the Church of England. Though the death of the excommunicated Frederick II. in 1250 was a great
gain for Innocent IV., the contest of the papacy against the Hohenstaufen raged as fiercely
as ever. Both in Germany and in Italy Innocent had to carry on his struggle against Conrad,
Frederick's son. After Conrad's death, in 1254, there was still Frederick's strenuous bastard,
Manfred, to be reckoned with in Naples and Sicily. Innocent IV. died in 1254, but his successor,
Alexander IV., continued his policy. A papalist King of Naples was wanted to withstand Manfred,
and also a papalist successor to the pope's phantom King of the Romans, William of Holland,
who died in 1256.

Candidates to both crowns were sought for in England. Since 1250 Innocent IV. had been sounding
Richard, Earl of Cornwall, as to his willingness to accept Sicily. The honourable scruple against
hostility to his kinsman, which Richard shared with the king, prevented him from setting up
his claims against Conrad. But the deaths both of Conrad and of Frederick II.'s son by Isabella
of England weakened the ties between the English royal house and the Hohenstaufen, and Henry
was tempted by Innocent's offer of the Sicilian throne for his younger son, Edmund, a boy of
nine, along with a proposal to release him from his vow of crusade to Syria, if he would prosecute
on his son's behalf a crusading campaign against the enemies of the Church in Naples. Innocent
died before the negotiations were completed, but Alexander IV. renewed the offer, and in April,
1255, Peter of Aigueblanche, Bishop of Hereford, accepted the preferred kingdom in Edmund's
name. Sicily was to be held by a tribute of money and service, as a fief of the holy see, and
was never to be united with the empire. Henry was to do homage to the pope on his son's behalf,
to go to Italy in person or send thither a competent force, and to reimburse the pope for the
large sums expended by him in the prosecution of the war. In return the English and Scottish
proceeds of the crusading tenth, imposed on the clergy at Lyons, were to be paid to Henry.
On October 18, 1255, a cardinal invested Edmund with a ring that symbolised his appointment.
Henry stood before the altar and swore by St. Edward that he would himself go to Apulia, as
soon as he could safely pass through France.

The treaty remained a dead letter. Henry found it quite impossible to raise either the men
or the money promised, and abandoned any idea of visiting Sicily in person. Meanwhile Naples
and Sicily were united in support of Manfred, and discomfited the feeble forces of the papal
legates who acted against him in Edmund's name. At last the Archbishop of Messina came from
the pope with an urgent request for payment of the promised sums. It was in vain that Henry
led forth his son, clothed in Apulian dress, before the Lenten parliament of 1257, and begged
the magnates to enable him to redeem his bond. When they heard the king's speech "the ears
of all men tingled". Nothing could be got save from the clergy, so that Henry was quite unable
to meet his obligations. He besought Alexander to give him time, to make terms with Manfred,
to release Edmund from his debts on condition of ceding a large part of Apulia to the Church,--to
do anything in short save insist upon the original contract. The pope deferred the payment,
but the respite did Henry no good. Edmund's Sicilian monarchy vanished into nothing, when,
early in 1258, Manfred was crowned king at Palermo. Before the end of the year, Alexander cancelled
the grant of Sicily to Edmund. Yet his demands for the discharge of Henry's obligations had
contributed not a little towards focussing the gathering discontent.[1]

    [1] For Edmund's Sicilian claims, see W.E. Rhodes' article on
    Edmund, Earl of Lancaster, in the English Historical
    Review, x. (1895), 20-27.

While Henry was seeking the Sicilian crown for his son, his brother Richard was elected to
the German throne. Since William of Holland's death in January, 1256, the German magnates,
divided between the Hohenstaufen and the papalist parties, had hesitated for nearly a year
as to the choice of his successor. As neither party was able to secure the election of its
own partisan, a compromise was mooted. At last the name of Richard of Cornwall was brought
definitely forward. He was of high rank and unblemished reputation; a friend of the pope yet
a kinsman of the Hohenstaufen; he was moderate and conciliatory; he had enough money to bribe
the electors handsomely, and he was never likely to be so deeply rooted in Germany as to stand
in the way of the princes of the empire. The Archbishop of Cologne became his paid partisan,
and the Count Palatine of the Rhine accepted his candidature on conditions. The French party
set up as his rival Alfonso X. of Castile, who, despite his newly formed English alliance,
was quite willing to stand against Richard. At last, in January, 1257, the votes of three electors,
Cologne, Mainz, and the Palatine, were cast for Richard, who also obtained the support of Ottocar,
King of Bohemia. However, in April, Trier, Saxony, and Brandenburg voted for Alfonso. The double
election of two foreigners perpetuated the Great Interregnum for some sixteen years. Alfonso's
title was only an empty show, but Richard took his appointment seriously. He made his way to
Germany, and was crowned King of the Romans on May 17, 1257, at Aachen. He remained in the
country nearly eighteen months, and succeeded in establishing his authority in the Rhineland,
though beyond that region he never so much as showed his face.[1] The elevation of his brother
to the highest dignity in Christendom was some consolation to Henry for the Sicilian failure.

    [1] See for Richard's career, Koch's Richard von Cornwallis,
    1209-1257, and the article on Richard, King of the Romans, in
    the Dictionary of National Biography.

The nation was disgusted to see maladministration grow worse and worse; the nobles were indignant
at the ever-increasing sway of the foreigners; and several years of bad harvests, high prices,
rain, flood, and murrain sharpened the chronic misery of the poor. The withdrawal of Earl Richard
to his new kingdom deprived the king and nation of an honourable if timid counsellor, though
a more capable leader was at last provided in the disgraced governor of Gascony. Simon still
deeply resented the king's ingratitude for his services, and had become enough of an Englishman
to sympathise with the national feelings. Since his dismissal in 1253 he had held somewhat
aloof from politics. He knew so well that his interests centred in England that he declined
the offer of the French regency on the death of Blanche of Castile. He prosecuted his rights
over Bigorre with characteristic pertinacity, and lawsuits about his wife's jointure from her
first husband exacerbated his relations with Henry. It cannot, however, be said that the two
were as yet fiercely hostile. Simon went to Henry's help in Gascony in 1254, served on various
missions and was nominated on others from which he withdrew. His chosen occupations during
these years of self-effacement were religious rather than political; his dearest comrades were
clerks rather than barons.

Among Montfort's closer intimates, Bishop Grosseteste was removed by death in 1253. But others
of like stamp still remained, such as Adam Marsh, the Franciscan mystic, whose election to
the see of Ely was quashed by the malevolence of the court; Eudes Rigaud, the famous Archbishop
of Rouen, and Walter of Cantilupe, Bishop of Worcester, who formed a connecting link between
the aristocracy and the Church. Despite the ineffectiveness of the clerical opposition to the
papacy, the spirit of independence expressed in Grosseteste's protests had not yet deserted
the churchmen. Clerks had felt the pinch of the papal exactions, had been bled to the uttermost
to support the Sicilian candidature, and had seen aliens and non-residents usurping their revenues
and their functions. More timid and less cohesive than the barons, they had quicker brains,
more ideas, deeper grievances, and better means of reaching the masses. If resentment of the
Sicilian candidature was the spark that fired the train, the clerical opposition showed the
barons the method of successful resistance. The rejection of Henry's demands for money in the
assemblies of 1257 started the movement that spread to the baronage in the parliaments of 1258.
In the two memorable gatherings of that year the discontent, which had smouldered for a generation,
at last burst into flame. In the next chapter we shall see in what fashion the fire kindled.

The futility of the political history of the weary middle period of the reign suggests, to
those who make the history of the state the criterion of every aspect of the national fortunes,
a corresponding barrenness and lack of interest in other aspects of national life. Yet a remedy
for Henry's misrule was only found because the age of political retrogression was in all other
fields of action an epoch of unexampled progress. The years during which the strong centralised
government of the Angevin kings was breaking down under Henry's weak rule were years which,
to the historian of civilisation, are among the most fruitful in our annals. In vivid contrast
to the tale of misrule, the historian can turn to the revival of religious and intellectual
life, the growing delight in ideas and knowledge, the consummation of the best period of art,
and the spread of a nobler civilisation which make the middle portion of the thirteenth century
the flowering time of English medieval life. It is part of this strange contrast that Henry,
the obstacle to all political progress, was himself a chief supporter of the religious and
intellectual movements which were so deeply influencing the age.

Much has been said of the alien invasion, and of the strong national opposition it excited.
But insularity is not a good thing in itself, and the natural English attitude to the foreigners
tended to confound good and bad alike in a general condemnation. Even the Savoyards were by
no means as evil as the English thought them, and Henry in welcoming his kinsmen was not merely
moved by selfish and unworthy motives; he believed that he was showing his openness to ideas
and his welcome to all good things from whencesoever they came. There were, in fact, two tendencies,
antagonistic yet closely related, which were operative, not only in England but all over western
Europe, during this period. Nations, becoming conscious and proud of their unity, dwelt, often
unreasonably, on the points wherein they differed from other peoples, and strongly resented
alien interference. At the same time the closer relations between states, the result of improved
government, better communications, increased commercial and social intercourse, the strengthening
of common ideals, and the development of cosmopolitan types of the knight, the scholar, and
the priest, were deepening the union of western Christendom on common lines. Neither the political
nor the military nor the ecclesiastical ideals of the early middle ages were based upon nationality,
but rather on that ecumenical community of tradition which still made the rule of Rome, whether
in Church or State, a living reality. In the thirteenth century the papal tradition was still
at its height. The jurisdiction of the papal curia implied a universal Christian commonwealth.
World-wide religious orders united alien lands together by ties more spiritual than obedience
to the papal lawyers. The academic ideal was another and a fresh link that connected the nations
together. To the ancient reasons for union--symbolised by the living Latin speech of all clerks,
of all scholars, of all engaged in serious affairs-were added the newer bonds of connexion
involved in the common knightly and social ideals, in the general spread of a common art and
a common vernacular language and literature.

As Latin expressed the one series of ties, so did French represent the other. The France of
St. Louis meant two things. It meant, of course, the French state and the French nationality,
but it meant a great deal more than that. The influence of the French tongue and French ideals
was wider than the political influence of the French monarchy. French was the common language
of knighthood, of policy, of the literature that entertained lords and ladies, of the lighter
and less technical sides of the cosmopolitan culture which had its more serious embodiments
in Latin. To the Englishman of the thirteenth century the French state was the enemy; but the
English baron denounced France in the French tongue, and leant a ready ear to those aspects
of life which, cosmopolitan in reality, found their fullest exposition in France and among
French-speaking peoples. In the age which saw hostility to Frenchmen become a passion, a Frenchman
like Montfort could become the champion of English patriotism, English scholars could readily
quit their native land to study at Paris, the French vernacular literature was the common property
of the two peoples, and French words began to force their way into the stubborn vocabulary
of the English language, which for two centuries had almost entirely rejected these alien elements.
In dwelling, however briefly, on the new features which were transforming English civilisation
during this memorable period, we shall constantly see how England gained by her ever-increasing
intercourse with the continent, by necessarily sharing in the new movements which had extended
from the continent to the island, no longer, as in the eleventh century, to be described as
a world apart. Neither the coming of the friars, nor the development of university life and
academic schools of philosophy, theology, and natural science, nor the triumph of gothic art,
nor the spread of vernacular literature, not even the scholarly study of English law nor the
course of English political development-not one of these movements could have been what it
was without the close interconnexion of the various parts of the European commonwealth, which
was becoming more homogeneous at the same time that its units were acquiring for themselves
sped characteristics of their own.

In the early days of Henry III.'s reign, a modest alien invasion anticipated the more noisy
coming of the Poitevin or the Provençal. The most remarkable development of the "religious"
life that the later middle age was to witness had just been worked out in Italy. St. Francis
of Assisi had taught the cult of absolute poverty, and his example held up to his followers
the ideal of the thorough and literal imitation of Christ's life. Thus arose the early beginnings
of the Minorite or Franciscan rule. St. Dominic yielded to the fascination of the Umbrian enthusiast,
and inculcated on his Order of Preachers a complete renunciation of worldly goods which made
a society, originally little more than a new type of canons regular, a mendicant order like
the Franciscans, bound to interpret the monastic vow of poverty with such literalness as to
include corporate as well as individual renunciation of possessions, so that the order might
not own lands or goods, and no member of it could live otherwise than by labour or by alms.
In the second chapter of the Dominican order, at Whitsuntide, 1221, an organisation into provinces
was carried out; and among the eight provinces, each with its prior, then instituted, was the
province of England, where no preaching friar had hitherto set foot, and over it Gilbert of
Freynet was appointed prior. Then Dominic withdrew to Bologna, where he died on August 6. Within
a few days of the saint's death, Friar Gilbert with thirteen companions made his way to England.
In the company of Peter des Roches the Dominican pioneers went to Canterbury, where Archbishop
Langton was then residing. At the archbishop's request Gilbert preached in a Canterbury church,
and Langton was so much delighted by his teaching that henceforth he had a special affection
for the new order. From Canterbury the friars journeyed to London and Oxford. Mindful of the
work of their leaders at Paris and Bologna, they built their first English chapel, house, and
schools in the university town. Soon these proved too small for them, and they had to seek
ampler quarters outside the walls. From these beginnings the Dominicans spread over England.

The Franciscans quickly followed the Dominicans. On September 10, 1224, there landed at Dover
a little band of four clerks and five laymen, sent by St. Francis himself to extend the new
teaching into England. At their head was the Italian, Agnellus of Pisa, a deacon, formerly
warden of the Parisian convent, who was appointed provincial minister in England. His three
clerical companions were all Englishmen, though the five laymen were Italians or Frenchmen.
Like the Dominican pioneers, the Franciscan missionaries first went to Canterbury, where the
favour of Simon Langton, the archdeacon, did for them what the goodwill of his brother Stephen
had done for their precursors. Leaving some of their number at Canterbury, four of the Franciscans
went on to London, and thence a little later two of them set out for Oxford. Alike at London
and at Oxford, they found a cordial welcome from the Dominicans, eating in their refectories,
and sleeping in their dormitories, until they were able to erect modest quarters in both places.
The brethren of the new order excited unbounded enthusiasm. Necessity and choice combined to
compel them to interpret their vow of poverty as St. Francis would have wished. They laboured
with their own hands at the construction of their humble churches. The friars at Oxford knew
the pangs of debt and hunger, rejected pillows as a vain luxury, and limited the use of boots
and shoes to the sick and infirm. The faithful saw the brethren singing songs as they picked
their way over the frozen mud or hard snow, blood marking the track of their naked feet, without
their being conscious of it. The joyous radiance of Francis himself illuminated the lives of
his followers. "The friars," writes their chronicler, "were so full of fun among themselves
that a deaf mute could hardly refrain from laughter at seeing them." With the same glad spirit
they laboured for the salvation of souls, the cure of sickness, and the relief of distress.
The emotional feeling of the age quickly responded to their zeal. Within a few years other
houses had arisen at Gloucester, at Nottingham, at Stamford, at Worcester, at Northampton,
at Cambridge, at Lincoln, at Shrewsbury. In a generation there was hardly a town of importance
in England that had not its Franciscan convent, and over against it a rival Dominican house.

The esteem felt for the followers of Francis and Dominic led to an extraordinary extension
of the mendicant type. New orders of friars arose, preserving the essential attribute of absolute
poverty, though differing from each other and from the two prototypes in various particulars.
Some of these lesser orders found their way to England. In the same year as Agnellus, there
came to England the Trinitarian friars, called also the Maturins, from the situation of their
first house in Paris, an order whose special function was the redemption of captives. In 1240
returning crusaders brought back with them the first Carmelite friars, for whom safer quarters
had to be found than in their original abodes in Syria. This society spread widely, and in
1287, to the disgust of the older monks, it laid aside the party-coloured habit, forced upon
it in derision by the infidels, and adopted the white robe, which gave them their popular name
of White Friars. Hard upon these, in 1244, came also the Crutched Friars, so called from the
red cross set upon their backs or breasts; but these were never deeply rooted in England. The
multiplication of orders of friars became an abuse, so that, at the Council of Lyons of 1245,
Innocent IV abolished all save four. Besides Dominicans and Franciscans the pope only continued
the Carmelites, and an order first seen in England a few years later, the Austin friars or
the hermits of the order of St. Augustine. These made up the traditional four orders of friars
of later history. Yet even the decree of a council could not stay the growth of new mendicant
types. In 1257 the Friars of the Penance of Jesus Christ, popularly styled Friars of the Sack,
from their coarse sackcloth garb, settled down in London, exempted by papal dispensation from
the fate of suppression; and even later than this King Richard's son, Edmund of Cornwall, established
a community of Bonhommes at Ashridge in Buckinghamshire.

The friars were not recluses, like the older orders, but active preachers and teachers of the
people. The parish clergy seldom held a strong position in medieval life. The estimation in
which the monastic ideal was held limited their influence. They were, as a rule, not much raised
above the people among whom they laboured. If the parish priest were a man of rank or education,
he was too often a non-resident and a pluralist, bestowing little personal attention on his
parishioners. Nor were the numerous parishes served by monks in much better plight. The monastery
took the tithes and somehow provided for the services; but the efforts of Grosseteste to secure
the establishment of permanent stipendiary vicarages in his diocese exemplify the reluctance
of the religious to give their appropriations the benefit of permanent pastors, paid on an
adequate scale. It was an exceptional thing for the parish clergymen to do more than discharge
perfunctorily the routine duties of their office, and preaching was almost unknown among them.
The friars threw themselves into pastoral work with such devotion as to compel the reluctant
admiration of their natural rivals, the monks. "At first," says Matthew Paris,[1] "the Preachers
and the Minorites lived a life of poverty and extreme sanctity. They busied themselves in preaching,
hearing confessions, the recital of divine service, in teaching and study. They embraced voluntary
poverty for God's sake, abandoning all their worldly goods and not even reserving for themselves
their food for to-morrow." A special field of labour was in the crowded suburbs of the larger
towns, where so often they chose to erect their first convents. The care of the sick and of
lepers was their peculiar function. Their sympathy and charity carried everything before them,
and they remained the chief teachers of the poor down to the Reformation. They ingratiated
themselves with the rich as much as with the poor. Henry III. and Edward selected mendicants
as their confessors. The strongest and holiest of the bishops, Grosseteste, became their most
active friend. Simon of Montfort sought the advice and friendship of a friar like Adam Marsh.
The mere fact that Stephen Langton and Peter des Roches were their first patrons in England
shows how they appealed alike to the best and worst clerical types of the time.

    [1] Chron. Maj., v., 194.

Men and women of all ranks, while still living in the world and fulfilling their ordinary occupations,
associated themselves to the mendicant brotherhoods. Besides these tertiaries, as they were
called, still wider circles sought the friars' direction in all spiritual matters and showed
eagerness to be buried within their sanctuaries. Nor did the friars limit themselves to pastoral
care. They won a unique place in the intellectual history of the time. They made themselves
the spokesmen of all the movements of the age. They were eager to make peace, and Agnellus
himself mediated between Henry III. and the earl marshal. They were the strenuous preachers
of the crusades, whether against the infidel or against Frederick II. The Franciscans taught
a new and more methodical devotion to the Virgin Mother. The friars upheld the highest papal
claims, were constantly selected as papal agents and tax-gatherers, and yet even this did not
deprive them of their influence over Englishmen. Their zeal for truth often made them defenders
of unpopular causes, and it was much to their honour that they did not hesitate to incur the
displeasure of the Londoners by their anxiety to save innocent Jews accused of the murder of
Christian children. The parish clergy hated and envied them as successful rivals, and bitterly
resented the privilege which they received from Alexander IV of hearing confessions throughout
the world. Not less strong was the hostility of the monastic orders which is often expressed
in Matthew Paris's free-spoken abuse of them. They were accused of terrorising dying men out
of their possessions, of laxity in the confessional, of absolving their friends too easily,
of overweening ambition and restless meddlesomeness. They were violent against heretics and
enemies of the Church. They answered hate with hate. They despised the seculars as drones and
the monks as lazy and corrupt. The dissensions between the various orders of friars, and particularly
between the sober and intellectual Dominicans and the radical and mystic Franciscans, were
soon as bitter as those between monks and friars, or monks and seculars. But when all allowances
have been made, the good that they wrought far outbalanced the evil, and in England at least,
the mendicant orders exhibited a nobler conception of religion, and of men's duly to their
fellowmen than had as yet been set before the people. If the main result of their influence
was to strengthen that cosmopolitan conception of Christendom of which the papacy was the head
and the friars the agents, their zeal for righteousness often led them beyond their own rigid
platform, and Englishmen honoured the wandering friar as the champion of the nation's cause.

Like the religious orders, the universities were part of the world system and only indirectly
represented the struggling national life. The ferment of the twelfth century revival crystallised
groups of masters or doctors into guilds called universities, with a strong class tradition,
rigid codes of rules, and intense corporate spirit. The schools at Oxford, whose continuous
history can be traced from the days of Henry II., had acquired a considerable reputation by
the time that his grandson had ascended the throne. Oxford university, with an autonomous constitution
of its own since 1214, was presided over by a chancellor who, though in a sense the representative
of the distant diocesan at Lincoln, was even in the earliest times the head of the scholars,
and no mere delegate of the bishop. Five years earlier the Oxford schools were sufficiently
vigorous to provoke a secession, from which the first faint beginnings of a university at Cambridge
arose. A generation later there were other secessions to Salisbury and Northampton, but neither
of these schools succeeded in maintaining themselves. Cambridge itself had a somewhat languid
existence throughout the whole of the thirteenth century, and was scarcely recognised as a
studium generale until the bull of John XXII. in 1318 made its future position secure. In early
days the university owed nothing to endowments, buildings, social prestige, or tradition. The
two essentials was the living voice of the graduate teacher and the concourse of students desirous
to be taught. Hence migrations were common and stability only gradually established. When,
late in Henry III.'s reign, the chancellor, Walter of Merton, desired to set up a permanent
institution for the encouragement of poor students, he hesitated whether to establish it at
Oxford, or Cambridge, or in his own Surrey village. Oxford, though patriots coupled it with
Paris and Bologna, only gradually rose into repute. But before the end of Henry III.'s reign
it had won an assured place among the great universities of western Europe, though lagging
far behind that of the supreme schools of Paris.

The growing fame of the university of Oxford was a matter of national importance. Down to the
early years of the thirteenth century a young English clerk who was anxious to study found
his only career abroad, and was too often cut off altogether from his mother country. Among
the last of this type were the Paris mathematician, John of Holywood or Halifax, Robert Curzon,
cardinal, legate, theologian, and crusader, and Alexander of Hales. Stephen Langton, who did
important work in revising the text of the Vulgate, might well have been one of those lost
to England but for the wisdom of Innocent III who restored him, in the fulness of his reputation
and powers, to the service of the English Church. Not many years younger than Langton was his
successor Edmund of Abingdon, but the difference was enough to make the younger primate a student
of the Oxford schools in early life. Though he left Oxford for Paris, Edmund returned to an
active career in England, when experience convinced him of the vanity of scholastic success.
Bishop Grosseteste, another early Oxford teacher of eminence, probably studied at Paris, for
so late as 1240 he held up to the Oxford masters of theology the example of their Paris brethren
for their imitation. The double allegiance of Edmund and Grosseteste was typical. A long catalogue
of eminent names adorned the annals of Oxford in the thirteenth century, but the most distinguished
of her earlier sons were drawn away from her by the superior attractions of Paris. England
furnished at least her share of the great names of thirteenth century scholasticism, but of
very few of these could it be said that their main obligation was to the English university.
It was at Paris that the academic organisation developed which Oxford adopted. At Paris the
great intellectual conflicts of the century were fought. There the ferment seethed round that
introduction of Aristotle's teaching from Moorish sources which led to the outspoken pantheism
of an Amaury of Bène. There also was the reconciliation effected between the new teacher and
the old faith which made Aristotle the pillar of the new scholasticism that was to justify
by reason the ways of God to man. In Paris also was fought the contest between the aggressive
mendicant friars and the secular doctors whom they wished to supplant in the divinity schools.

There is little evidence of even a pale reflection of these struggles in contemporary Oxford.
English scholars bore their full share in the fight. It was the Englishman Curzon who condemned
the heresies of Amaury of Bène. Another Englishman, Alexander of Hales, issued in his Summa
Theologiæ the first effective reconciliation of Aristotelian metaphysic with Christian doctrine
which his Paris pupils, Thomas Aquinas, the Italian, and Albert the Great, the German, were
to work out in detail in the next generation. Hales was the first secular doctor in Europe
who in 1222, in the full pride of his powers, abandoned his position in the university to embrace
the voluntary poverty of the Franciscans and resume his teaching, not in the regular schools
but in a Minorite convent. And at the same time another English doctor at Paris, John of St.
Giles, notable as a physician as well as a theologian, dramatically marked his conversion to
the Dominican order by assuming its habit in the midst of a sermon on the virtues of poverty.
All these famous Englishmen worked and taught at Paris, and it was only a generation later
that their successors could establish on the Thames the traditions so long upheld on the banks
of the Seine.

The establishment of the Dominicans and Franciscans at Oxford gave an immense impetus to the
activity of the university. The Franciscans appointed as the first lector of their Oxford convent
the famous secular teacher Grosseteste, who ever after held the Minorites in the closest estimation.
Grosseteste was the greatest scholar of his day, knowing Greek and Hebrew as well as the accustomed
studies of the period. A clear and independent thinker, he was not, like so many of his contemporaries,
overborne by the weight of authority, but appealed to observation and experience in terms which
make him the precursor of Roger Bacon. Grosseteste's successor as lector was himself a Minorite,
Adam Marsh, whose reputation was so great that Grosseteste was afraid to leave him when sick
in a French town, lest the Paris masters should persuade him to teach in their schools. Adam's
loyalty to his native university withstood any such temptation, and from that time Oxford began
to hold up its head against Paris. Even before this, Grosseteste persuaded John of St. Giles
to transfer his teaching from Paris to Oxford, where he remained for the rest of his life.

The intense intellectual activity of the thirteenth century flowed in more than one channel,
and Englishmen took their full share both in building up and in destroying. Two Englishmen
of the next generation mark in different ways the reaction against the moderate Aristotelianism
and orthodox rationalism which their countryman Hales first brought into vogue. These were
the Franciscan friars, Roger Bacon and Duns Scotus. Bacon, though he studied at Paris as well
as at Oxford, is much more closely identified with England than with the Continent. His sceptical,
practical intellect led him to heap scorn on Hales and his followers and to plunge into audacities
of speculation which cost him long seclusions in his convent and enforced abstinence from writing
and study. In his war against the Aristotelians, the intrepid friar upheld recourse to experiment
and observation as superior to deference to authority, in language which stands in strange
contrast to the traditions of the thirteenth century. Grosseteste, who also had preferred the
teachings of experience to the appeal to the sages of the past, was the only academic leader
that escaped Bacon's scathing censure. When his order kept him silent, Roger was bidden to
resume his pen by Pope Clement IV. A generation still later, Duns Scotus, probably a Lowland
Scot, who taught at Paris and died at Cologne in 1308, emphasised, sharply enough, but in less
drastic fashion, the reaction against the teaching of Hales and Aquinas, by accepting a dualism
between reason and authority that broke away from the Thomist tradition of the thirteenth century
and prepared the way for the scholastic decadence of the fourteenth. After France, England
took a leading part in all these movements; and even in France English scholars had a large
share in making that land the special home of the Studium, as Italy was of the Sacerdotium
and Germany of the Imperium.

This intellectual ferment had its results on practical life. Though the university was cosmopolitan,
the individual members of it were not the less good citizens. A patriot like Grosseteste strove
to his uttermost to keep Englishmen for Oxford or to win them back from Paris. Oxford clerks
fought the battle of England against the legate Otto, and we shall see them siding with Montfort.
The eminently practical temper of the academic class could not neglect the world of action
for the abstract pursuit of science. Eager as men were to know, to prove, and to inquire, the
age had little of the mystical temperament about it. The studies which made for worldly success,
such as civil and canon law, attracted the thousands for whom philosophy or theology had little
attraction. Never before was there a career so fully opened to talent. The academic teacher's
fame took him from the lecture-room to the court, from the university to the episcopal throne,
and so it was that the university influenced action almost as profoundly as it influenced thought,
and affected all classes of society alike. The struggles of poor students like Edmund of Abingdon
or Grosseteste must not make us think that the universities of this period were exclusively
frequented by humble scholars. The academic career of a rich baron's son like Thomas of Cantilupe,
living in his own hired house at Paris with a train of chaplains and tutors, receiving the
visits of the French king, and feeding poor scholars with the remnants from his table, is as
characteristic as the more common picture of the student begging his way from one seat of learning
to another, and suffering the severest privations rather than desert his studies. Yet the function
of the studium as promoting a healthy circulation between the various orders of medieval society,
must not be ignored.

Partly to help on the poor, partly to encourage men to devote themselves to the pursuit of
knowledge, endowments began to arise which soon enhanced the splendour of universities though
they lessened their mobility and their freedom. The mendicant convents at Paris and Oxford
prepared the way for secular foundations, at first small and insignificant, like that which,
in the days of Henry III., John Balliol established at Oxford for the maintenance of poor scholars,
but soon increasing in magnitude and distinction. The great college set up by St. Louis' confessor
at Paris for the endowment of scholars, desirous of studying the unlucrative but vital subject
of theology, was soon imitated by the chancellor of Henry III. Side by side with Robert of
Sorbon's college of 1257, arose Walter of Merton's foundation of 1263, and twenty years later
Bishop Balsham's college of Peterhouse extended the "rule of Merton" to Cambridge.

The academic movement was not all clear gain. The humanism, of the twelfth century was crushed
beneath the weight of the specialised science and encyclopædic learning of the thirteenth.
We should seek in vain among most theologians or the philosophers of our period for any spark
of literary art; and the tendency dominant in them affected for evil all works written in Latin.
Even the historians show a falling away from the example of William of Malmesbury or of Roger
of Hoveden. The one English chronicler of the thirteenth century who is a considerable man
of letters, Matthew Paris, belongs to the early half of it, before the academic tradition was
fully established, and even with him prolixity impairs the art without injuring the colour
of his work. The age of Edward I., the great time of triumphant scholasticism, is recorded
in chronicles so dreary that it is hard to make the dry bones live. Walter of Hemingburgh,
the most attractive historian of the time, belongs to the next generation: and his excellencies
are only great in comparison with his fellows. Something of this decadence may be attributed
to the falling away of the elder monastic types, whose higher life withered up from want of
able recruits, for the secular and mendicant careers offered opportunities so stimulating that
few men of purpose, or earnest spiritual character, cared to enter a Benedictine or a Cistercian
house of religion. Something more may be assigned to the growing claims of the vulgar tongue
on literary aspirants. But the chief cause of the literary defects of thirteenth century writers
must be set down to the doctrine that the study of "arts"--of grammar, rhetoric and the rest--was
only worthy of schoolboys and novices, and was only a preliminary to the specialised faculties
which left little room for artistic presentation. Science in short nearly killed literature.

It was the same with the vulgar tongues as with Latin. French remained the common language
of the higher classes of English society, and the history of French literature belongs to the
history of the western world rather than to that of England. The share taken in it by English-born
writers is less important than in the great age of romance when the contact of Celt and Norman
on British soil added the Arthurian legend to the world's stock of poetic material. The practical
motive, which destroyed the art of so many Latin writers, impaired the literary value of much
written in the vernacular. We have technical works in French and even in English, such as Walter
of Henley's treatise on Husbandry, composed in French for the guidance of stewards of manors,
and translated, it is said by Grosseteste, into English for the benefit of a wider public.
Grosseteste is also said to have drawn up in French a handbook of rules for the management
of a great estate, and he certainly wrote French poetry. The legal literature, written in Latin
or French, and illustrated by such names as Bracton, Britton, and "Fleta," shows that there
was growing up a school of earnest students of English law who, though anxious, like Bracton,
to bring their conclusions under the rules of Roman jurisprudence, began to treat their science
with an independence which secured for English custom the opportunity of independent development.
Of more literary interest than such technicalities were the rhyming chronicles, handed on from
the previous age, of which one of the best, the recently discovered history of the great William
Marshal, has already been noticed. The spontaneity of this poem proves that its language was
still the natural speech of the writer, and impels its French editor to claim for it a French
origin. As the century grew older there was no difficulty in deciding whether French works
were written by Englishmen or Frenchmen. The Yorkshire French of Peter Langtoft's Chronicle,
and the jargon of the Year Books, attest how the political separation of the two lands, and
the preponderance in northern France of the dialect of Paris, placed the insular French speech
in strong contrast to the language of polite society beyond the Channel. Yet barbarous as Anglo-French
became, it retained the freshness of a living tongue, and gained some ground at the expense
of Latin, notably in the law courts and in official documents.

English was slowly making its way upwards. There was a public ready to read vernacular books,
and not at home with French. For their sake a great literature of translations and adaptations
was made, beginning with Layamon's English version of Wace's Brut, which by the end of the
century made the cycle of French romance accessible to the English reader. Many works of edification
and devotion were written in English; and Robert of Gloucester's rhyming history appealed to
a larger public than the Yorkshire French of Langtoft. It is significant of the trend of events
that the early fourteenth century saw Langtoft himself done into English by Robert Mannyng,
of Bourne. While as yet no continuous works of high merit were written in English, there was
no lack of experiments, of novelties, and of adaptations. Much evidence of depth of feeling,
power of expression, and careful art lies hidden away in half-forgotten anonymous lyrics, satires,
and romances. The language in which these works were written was steadily becoming more like
our modern English. The dialectical differences become less acute; the inflections begin to
drop away; the vocabulary gradually absorbs a larger romance element, and the prosody drops
from the forms of the West Saxon period into measures and modes that reflect a living connexion
with the contemporary poetry of France. Thus, even in the literature of a not too literary
age, we find abundant tokens of that strenuous national life which was manifesting itself in
so many different ways.

Art rather than literature reflected the deeper currents of the thirteenth century. Architecture,
the great art of the middle age, was in its perfection. The inchoate gothic which the Cistercians
brought from Burgundy to the Yorkshire dales, and William of Sens transplanted from his birthplace
to Canterbury, was superseded by the more developed art of St. Hugh's choir at Lincoln. In
the next generation the new style, imported from northern France, struck out ways of its own,
less soaring, less rigidly logical, yet of unequalled grace and picturesqueness, such as we
see in Salisbury cathedral, which altogether dates from the reign of Henry III. Here also,
as in literature, foreign models stood side by side with native products. Henry III.'s favourite
foundation at Westminster reproduced on English soil the towering loftiness, the vaulted roofs,
the short choir, and the ring of apsidal chapels, of the great French minsters. This was even
more emphatically the case with the decorations, the goldsmith's and metal work, the sculpture,
painting, and glass, which the best artists of France set up in honour of the English king's
favourite saint. In these crafts English work would not as yet bear a comparison with foreign,
and even the glories of the statuary of the façade of Wells cannot approach the sculptured
porches of Amiens or Paris. As the century advanced some of the fashions of the French builders,
notably as regards window tracery, were taken up in the early "Decorated" of the reign of Edward
I.; and here the claims of English to essential equality with French building can perhaps be
better substantiated than in the infancy of the art. But all these comparisons are misleading.
The impulse to gothic art came to England from France, like the impulse to many other things.
Its working out was conducted on English local lines, ever becoming more divergent from those
of the prototype, though not seldom stimulated by the constant intercourse of the two lands.

The new gothic art enriched the medieval town with a splendour of buildings hitherto unknown,
which symbolised the growth of material prosperity as well as of a keener artistic appreciation.
In the greater towns the four orders of friars erected their large and plain churches, designed
as halls for preaching to great congregations. The development of domestic architecture is
even more significant than the growth of ecclesiastical and military buildings. Stone houses
were no longer the rare luxuries of Jews or nobles. Never were the towns more prosperous and
more energetic. They were now winning for themselves both economic and administrative independence.
Magnates, such as Randolph of Chester, followed the king's example by granting charters to
the smaller towns. Even the lesser boroughs became not merely the abodes of agriculturists
but the homes of organised trading communities. It was the time when the merchant class first
began to manifest itself in politics, and the power of capital to make itself felt. Capital
was almost monopolised by Jews, Lombards, or Tuscans, and the fierce English hatred of the
foreigner found a fresh expression in the persecution of the Hebrew money-lenders and in the
increasing dislike felt for the alien bankers and merchants who throve at Englishmen's expense.
The fact that so much of English trade with the continent was still in the hands of Germans,
Frenchmen, and Italians made this feeling the more intense. But there were limits even to the
ill-will towards aliens. The foreigner could make himself at home in England, and the rapid
naturalisation of a Montfort in the higher walks of life is paralleled by the absorption into
the civic community of many a Gascon or German merchant, like that Arnold Fitz Thedmar,[1]
a Bremen trader's son, who became alderman of London and probably chronicler of its history.
Yet even the greatest English towns did not become strong enough to cut themselves off from
the general life of the people. They were rather a new element in that rich and purposeful
nation that had so long been enduring the rule of Henry of Winchester. The national energy
spurned the feebleness of the court, and the time was at hand when the nation, through its
natural leaders, was to overthrow the wretched system of misgovernment under which it had suffered.
Political retrogression was no longer to bar national progress.

    [1] See for Arnold the Chronica majorum et vicecomitum
    Londoniarum in Liber de antiquis legibus, and Riley's
    introduction to his translation of Chronicles of the Mayors
    and Sheriffs of London (1863).

CHAPTER V.

THE BARONS' WAR.

During the early months of 1258, the aliens ruled the king and realm, added estate to estate,
and defied all attempts to dislodge them. Papal agents traversed the country, extorting money
from prelates and churches. The Welsh, in secret relations with the lords of the march, threatened
the borders, and made a confederacy with the Scots. The French were hostile, and the barons
disunited, without leaders, and helpless. A wretched harvest made corn scarce and dear. A wild
winter, followed by a long late frost, cut off the lambs and destroyed the farmers' hopes for
the summer. A murrain of cattle followed, and the poor were dying of hunger and pestilence.
Henry III. was in almost as bad a plight as his people. He had utterly failed to subdue Llewelyn.
A papal agent threatened him with excommunication and the resumption of the grant of Sicily.
He could not control his foreign kinsfolk, and the rivalry of Savoyards and Poitevins added
a new element of turmoil to the distracted relations of the magnates. His son had been forced
to pawn his best estates to William of Valence, and the royal exchequer was absolutely empty.
Money must be had at all risks, and the only way to get it was to assemble the magnates.

On April 2 the chief men of Church and State gathered together at London. For more than a month
the stormy debates went on. The king's demands were contemptuously waved aside. His exceptional
misdeeds, it was declared, were to be met by exceptional measures. Hot words were spoken, and
William of Valence called Leicester a traitor. "No, no, William," the earl replied, "I am not
a traitor, nor the son of a traitor; your father and mine were men of a different stamp," An
opposition party formed itself under the Earls of Gloucester, Leicester, Hereford, and Norfolk.
Even the Savoyards partially fell away from the court, and a convocation of clergy at Merton,
presided over by Archbishop Boniface, drew up canons in the spirit of Grosseteste. In parliament
all that Henry could get was a promise to adjourn the question of supply until a commission
had drafted a programme of reform. On May 2 Henry and his son Edward announced their acceptance
of this proposal; parliament was forthwith prorogued, and the barons set to work to mature
their scheme.

On June 11 the magnates once more assembled, this time at Oxford. A summons to fight the Welsh
gave them an excuse to appear attended with their followers in arms. The royalist partisans
nicknamed the gathering the Mad Parliament, but its proceedings were singularly business-like.
A petition of twenty-nine articles was presented, in which the abuses of the administration
were laid bare in detail. A commission of twenty-four was appointed who were to redress the
grievances of the nation, and to draw up a new scheme of government. According to the compact
Henry himself selected half this body. It was significant of the falling away of the mass of
the ruling families from the monarchy, that six of Henry's twelve commissioners were churchmen,
four were aliens, three were his brothers, one his brother-in-law, one his nephew, one his
wife's uncle. The only earls that accepted his nomination were the Poitevin adventurer, John
du Plessis, Earl of Warwick, and John of Warenne, who was pledged to a royalist policy by his
marriage to Henry's half-sister, Alice of Lusignan. The only bishops were, the queen's uncle,
Boniface of Canterbury, and Fulk Basset of London, the richest and noblest born of English
prelates, who, though well meaning, was too weak in character for continued opposition. Yet
these two were the most independent names on Henry's list. The rest included the three Lusignan
brothers, Guy, William, and Aymer, still eight years after his election only elect of Winchester;
Henry of Almaine, the young son of the King of the Romans; the pluralist official John Mansel;
the chancellor, Henry Wingham; the Dominican friar John of Darlington, distinguished as a biblical
critic, the king's confessor and the pope's agent; and the Abbot of Westminster, an old man
pledged by long years of dependence to do the will of the second founder of his house. In strong
contrast to these creatures of court favour were the twelve nominees of the barons. The only
ecclesiastic was Walter of Cantilupe, Bishop of Worcester, and the only alien was Earl Simon
of Leicester. With him were three other earls, Richard of Clare, Earl of Gloucester, Roger
Bigod, earl marshal and Earl of Norfolk, and Humphrey Bohun, Earl of Hereford. Those of baronial
rank were Roger Mortimer, the strongest of the marchers, Hugh Bigod, the brother of the earl
marshal, John FitzGeoffrey, Richard Grey, William Bardolf, Peter Montfort, and Hugh Despenser.

The twenty-four drew up a plan of reform which left little to be desired in thoroughness. The
Provisions of Oxford, as the new constitution was styled, were speedily laid before the barons
and adopted. By it a standing council of fifteen was established, with whose advice and consent
Henry was henceforth to exercise all his authority. Even this council was not to be without
supervision. Thrice in the year another committee of twelve was to treat with the fifteen on
the common affairs of the realm. This rather narrow body was created, we are told, to save
the expense involved in too frequent meetings of the magnates. A third aristocratic junto of
twenty-four was appointed to make grants of money to the crown. All aliens were to be expelled
from office and from the custody of royal castles. New ministers, castellans, and escheators
were appointed under stringent conditions and under the safeguard of new oaths. The original
twenty-four were not yet discharged from office. They had still to draw up schemes for the
reform of the household of king and queen, and for the amendment of the exchange of London.
Moreover, "Be it remembered," ran one of the articles, "that the estate of Holy Church be amended
by the twenty-four elected to reform the realm, when they shall find time and place".

For the first time in our history the king was forced to stand aside from the discharge of
his undoubted functions, and suffer them to be exercised by a committee of magnates. The conception
of limited monarchy, which had been foreshadowed in the early struggles of Henry's long reign,
was triumphantly vindicated, and, after weary years of waiting, the baronial victors demanded
more than had ever been suggested by the most free interpretation of the Great Charter. The
body that controlled the crown was, it is true, a narrow one. But whatever was lost by its
limitation, was more than gained by the absolute freedom of the whole movement from any suspicion
of the separatist tendencies of the earlier feudalism. The barons tacitly accepted the principle
that England was a unity, and that it must be ruled as a single whole. The triumph of the national
movement of the thirteenth century was assured when the most feudal class of the community
thus frankly abandoned the ancient baronial contention that each baron should rule in isolation
over his own estates, a tradition which, when carried out for a brief period under Stephen,
had set up "as many kings or rather tyrants as lords of castles". The feudal period was over:
the national idea was triumphant. This victory becomes specially significant when we remember
how large a share the barons of the Welsh march, the only purely feudal region in the country,
took in the movement against the King.

The unity of the national government being recognised, it was another sign of the times that
its control should be transferred from the monarch to a committee of barons. At this point
the rigid conceptions of the triumphant oligarchy stood in the way of a wide national policy.
Since the reign of John the custom had arisen of consulting the representatives of the shire-courts
on matters of politics and finance. In 1258 there is not the least trace of a suggestion that
parliament could ever include a more popular element than the barons and prelates. On the contrary,
the Provisions diminished the need even for those periodical assemblies of the magnates which
had been in existence since the earliest dawn of our history. For all practical purposes small
baronial committees were to perform the work of magnates and people as well as of the crown.
Yet it must be recognised that the barons showed self-control, as well as practical wisdom,
in handing over functions discharged by the baronage as a whole to the various committees of
their selection. The danger of general control by the magnates was that a large assembly, more
skilled in opposition than in constructive work, was almost sure to become infected by faction.
By strictly limiting and defining who the new rulers of England were to be, the barons approached
a combination of aristocratic control with the stability and continuity resulting from limited
numbers and defined functions. It is likely, however, that in bestowing such extensive powers
on their nominees, they were influenced by the well-grounded belief that the new constitution
could only be established by main force, and that, even when abandoned by the king, the aliens
would make a good fight before they gave up all that they had so long held in England. The
success of the new scheme largely depended upon the immediate execution of the ordinance for
the expulsion of the foreigners.

The first step taken to carry out the Provisions was the appointment of the new ministers.
The barons insisted on the revival of the office of justiciar, and a strenuous and capable
chief minister was found in Hugh Bigod. It was advisable to go cautiously, and some of the
king's ministers were allowed to continue in office. An appeal to force was necessary before
the new constitution could be set up in detail. The Savoyards bought their safety by accepting
it; but the Poitevins, seeing that flight or resistance were the only alternatives before them,
were spirited enough to prefer the bolder course. They were specially dangerous because Edward
and his cousin, Henry of Almaine, the son of the King of the Romans, were much under their
influence. In the Dominican convent at Oxford the baronial leaders formed a sworn confederacy
not to desist from their purpose until the foreigners had been expelled. There were more hot
words between Leicester and William, the most capable of the Lusignans. The Poitevins soon
found that they could not maintain themselves in the face of the general hatred. On June 22
they fled from Oxford in the company of their ally, Earl Warenne. They rode straight for the
coast, but failing to reach it, occupied Winchester, where they sought to maintain themselves
in Aymer's castle of Wolvesey. The magnates of the parliament then turned against them the
arms they professed to have prepared against the Welsh. Headed by the new justiciar, Hugh Bigod,
they besieged Wolvesey. Warenne abandoned the aliens, and they gladly accepted the terms offered
to them by their foes. They were allowed to retain their lands and some of their ready money,
on condition of withdrawing from the realm and surrendering their castles. By the middle of
July they had crossed over to France. With them disappeared the whole of the organised opposition
to the new government. Edward, deprived of their support, swore to observe the Provisions.

Immediately on the flight of the Lusignans the council of Fifteen was chosen after a fashion
which seemed to give the king's friends an equal voice with the champions of the aristocracy.
Four electors appointed it, and of these two were the nominees of the baronial section, and
two of the royalist section of the original twenty-four. The result of their work showed that
there was only one party left after the Wolvesey fiasco. While only three of the king's twelve
had places on the permanent council, no less that nine of the fifteen were chosen from the
baronial twelve. It was useless for Archbishop Boniface, John Mansel, and the Earl of Warwick
to stand up against the Bishop of Worcester, the Earls of Leicester, Norfolk, Hereford, and
Gloucester, against John FitzGeoffrey, Peter Montfort, Richard Grey, and Roger Mortimer. Moreover,
of the three, John Mansel alone could still be regarded as a royalist partisan. There were
three of the fifteen chosen from outside the twenty-four. Of these, Peter of Savoy, Earl of
Richmond, might, like his brother Boniface, be regarded as an alien, though hatred of the Poitevins
had by this time made Englishmen of the Savoyards. The other two, the marcher-lord James of
Audley and William of Fors, Earl of Albemarle, were of baronial sympathies. It was the same
with the other councils.

Inquiry was made as to abuses. Gradually the royal officials were replaced by men of popular
leanings. The sheriffs were changed and were strictly controlled, and four knights from each
shire assembled in October to present to the king the grievances of the people against the
out-going sheriffs. The custody of the castles was put into trusty and, for the most part,
into English hands. Finally the king was forced to issue a proclamation, in which he commanded
all true men "steadfastly to hold and to defend the statutes that be made or are to be made
by our counsellors". This document was issued in English as well as in French and Latin. A
copy of the English version was sent to every sheriff, with instructions to read it several
times a year in the county court, so that a knowledge of its contents might be attained by
every man. It is perhaps the first important proclamation issued in English since the coming
of the Normans. Early in 1259 Richard, King of the Romans, set out to revisit England. He was
met at Saint Omer by a deputation of magnates, who told him that he could only be allowed to
land after taking an oath to observe the Provisions. Richard blustered, but soon gave in his
submission. His adhesion to the reforms marks the last step in the revolution.

The new constitution worked without interruption until the end of 1259. Throughout that period
domestic affairs were uneventful, and the efforts of the ministry were chiefly concerned in
securing peace abroad. In 1258 Wales had been in revolt, Scotland unfriendly, and France threatening.
A truce, ill observed, was made with Llewelyn, who found it worth while to be cautious, seeing
that his natural enemies, but sometime associates, the marchers, had a preponderant share in
the government. The Scots were easier to satisfy, for there was at the time no real hostility
between either kings or peoples. The chief event of this period is the conclusion of the first
peace with France since the wars of John and Philip Augustus. The protracted negotiations which
preceded it took the king and his chief councillors abroad, and that made it easier to carry
on the new domestic system without friction.

Since the friendly personal intercourse held between Henry and Louis IX. in 1254, the relations
between England and France had become less cordial. The revival of the English power in Gascony,
the Anglo-Castilian alliance, and the election of Richard of Cornwall to the German kingship
irritated the French, to whom the persistent English claim to Normandy and Anjou, and the repudiation
of the Aquitanian homage, were perpetual sources of annoyance. The French championship of Alfonso
against Richard achieved the double end of checking English pretensions, and cooling the friendship
between England and Castile. St. Louis, however, was always ready to treat for peace, while
the revolution of 1258 made all parties in England anxious to put a speedy end to the unsettled
relations between the two realms. Negotiations were begun as early as 1257, and made some progress;
but the decisive step was taken immediately after the prorogation of the reforming parliament
in the spring of 1258. During May a strangely constituted embassy treated for peace at Paris,
where Montfort and Hugh Bigod worked side by side with two of the Lusignans and Peter of Savoy.
They concluded a provisional treaty in time for the negotiators to take their part in the Mad
Parliament. The unsettled state of affairs in England, however, delayed the ratification of
the treaty. Arrangements had been made for its publication at Cambrai, but the fifteen dared
not allow Henry to escape from their tutelage, and Louis refused to treat save with the king
himself. There were difficulties as to the relation of the pope and the King of the Romans
to the treaty, while Earl Simon's wife Eleanor and her children refused to waive their very
remote claims to a share in the Norman and Angevin inheritances, which her brother was prepared
to renounce. As ever, Montfort held to his personal rights with the utmost tenacity, and the
self-seeking obstinacy of the chief negotiator of the treaty caused both bad blood and delay.
At last he was bought off by the promise of a money payment, and the preliminary ratifications
were exchanged in the summer of 1259. On November 14 Henry left England for Paris for the formal
conclusion of the treaty. There were great festivities on the occasion of the meeting of the
two kings, but once more Montfort and his wife blocked the way. Not until the very morning
of the day fixed for the final ceremony were they satisfied by Henry's promise to deposit on
their behalf a large sum in the hands of the French. Immediately afterwards Henry did homage
to Louis for Gascony.

The chief condition of the treaty of Paris was Henry's definitive renunciation of all his claims
on Normandy, Anjou, Maine, Touraine, and Poitou, and his agreement to hold Gascony as a fief
of the French crown. In return for this, Louis not only recognised him as Duke of Aquitaine,
but added to his actual possessions there by ceding to him all that he held, whether in fief
or in demesne, in the three dioceses of Limoges, Cahors, and Périgueux. Besides these immediate
cessions, the French king promised to hand over to Henry certain districts then held by his
brother, Alfonse of Poitiers, and his brother's wife Joan of Toulouse, in the event of their
dominions escheating to the crown by their death without heirs. These regions included Agen
and the Agenais, Saintonge to the south of the Charente, and in addition the whole of Quercy,
if it could be proved by inquest that it had been given by Richard I. to his sister Joan, grandmother
of Joan of Poitiers, as her marriage portion. Moreover the French king promised to pay to Henry
the sums necessary to maintain for two years five hundred knights to be employed "for the service
of God, or the Church, or the kingdom of England."[1]

    [1] For the treaty and its execution see M. Gavrilovitch,
    Étude sur le traité de Paris de 1259 (1899).

The treaty was unpopular both in France and England. The French strongly objected to the surrender
of territory, and were but little convinced of the advantage gained by making the English king
once more the vassal of France. English opinion was hostile to the abandonment of large pretensions
in return for so small an equivalent. On the French side it is true that Louis sacrificed something
to his sense of justice and love of peace. But the territory he ceded was less in reality than
in appearance. The French king's demesnes in Quercy, Périgord, and Limousin were not large,
and the transference of the homage of the chief vassals meant only a nominal change of overlordship,
and was further limited by a provision that certain "privileged fiefs" were still to be retained
under the direct suzerainty of the French crown. As to the eventual cessions, Alfonse and his
wife were still alive and likely to live many years. Even the cession of Gascony was hampered
by a stipulation that the towns should take an "oath of security," by which they pledged themselves
to aid France against England in the event of the English king breaking the provisions of the
treaty. Perhaps the most solid advantage Henry gained by the treaty was financial, for he spent
the sums granted to enable him to redeem his crusading vow in preparing for war against his
own subjects. It was, however, an immense advantage for England to be able during the critical
years which followed to be free from French hostility. If, therefore, the French complaints
against the treaty were exaggerated, the English dissatisfaction was unreasonable. The real
difficulty for the future lay in the fact that the possession of Gascony by the king of a hostile
nation was incompatible with the proper development of the French monarchy. For fifty years,
however, a chronic state of war had not given Gascony to the French; and Louis IX. was, perhaps,
politic as well as scrupulous in abandoning the way of force and beginning a new method of
gradual absorption, that in the end gained the Gascon fief for France more effectively than
any conquest. The treaty of Paris was not a final settlement. It left a score of questions
still open, and the problems of its gradual execution involved the two courts in constant disputes
down to the beginning of the Hundred Years' War. For seventy years the whole history of the
relations between the two nations is but a commentary on the treaty of Paris.

During his visit to Paris Henry arranged a marriage between his daughter Beatrice and John
of Brittany, the son of the reigning duke. In no hurry to get back to the tutelage of the fifteen,
he prolonged his stay on the continent till the end of April, 1260. Yet, abroad as at home,
he could not be said to act as a free man. It was not the king so much as Simon of Montfort
who was the real author of the French treaty. Indeed, it is from the conclusion of the Peace
of Paris that Simon's preponderance becomes evident. He was at all stages the chief negotiator
of the peace and, save when his personal interests stood in the way, he controlled every step
of the proceedings. If in 1258 he was but one of several leaders of the baronial party in England,
he came back from France in 1260 assured of supremacy. During his absence abroad, events had
taken place in England which called for his presence.

After their triumph in 1258, the baronial leaders relaxed their efforts. Contented with their
position as arbiters of the national destinies, they made little effort to carry out the reforms
contemplated at Oxford. The ranks of the victors were broken up by private dissensions. Before
leaving for France, Earl Simon violently quarrelled with Richard, Earl of Gloucester. It was
currently believed that Gloucester had grown slack, and Simon rose in popular estimation as
a thorough-going reformer who had no mind to substitute the rule of a baronial oligarchy for
the tyranny of the king. His position was strengthened by his personal qualities which made
him the hero of the younger generation; and his influence began to modify the policy of Edward
the king's son, who, since the flight of his Poitevin kinsmen, was gradually arriving at broader
views of national policy. Even before his father's journey to France, Edward took up a line
of his own. In the October parliament of 1259, he listened to a petition presented to the council
by the younger nobles[1] who complained that, though the king had performed all his promises,
the barons had not fulfilled any of theirs. Edward thereupon stirred up the oligarchy to issue
an instalment of the promised reforms in the document known as the Provisions of Westminster.
During Henry's absence in France the situation became strained. The oligarchic party, headed
by Gloucester, was breaking away from Montfort; and Edward was forming a liberal royalist party
which was not far removed from Montfort's principles. Profiting by these discords, the Lusignans
prepared to invade England. The papacy was about to declare against the reformers. When the
monks of Winchester elected an Englishman as their bishop in the hope of getting rid of the
queen's uncle, Alexander IV. summoned Aymer to his court and consecrated him bishop with his
own hands.

    [1] "Communitas bacheleriae Angliae," Burton Ann., p. 471.
    See on this, Engl. Hist. Review, xvii. (1902), 89-94.

