In an early chapter of this volume we have given a rapid survey of the state of Scotland about
the middle of last century.  We found a country without roads, fields lying uncultivated, mines
unexplored, and all branches of industry languishing, in the midst of an idle, miserable, and
haggard population.  Fifty years passed, and the state of the Lowlands had become completely
changed.  Roads had been made, canals dug, coal-mines opened up, ironworks established; manufactures
were extending in all directions; and Scotch agriculture, instead of being the worst, was admitted
to be the best in the island.

"I have been perfectly astonished," wrote Romilly from Stirling, in 1793, "at the richness
and high cultivation of all the tract of this calumniated country through which I have passed,
and which extends quite from Edinburgh to the mountains where I now am. It is true, however;
that almost everything which one sees to admire in the way of cultivation is due to modem improvements;
and now and then one observes a few acres of brown moss, contrasting admirably with the corn-fieids
to which they are contiguous, and affording a specimen of the dreariness and desolation which,
only half a century ago, overspread a country now highly cultivated, and become a most copious
source of human happiness."*[1]  It must, however, be admitted that the industrial progress
thus described was confined almost entirely to the Lowlands, and had scarcely penetrated the
mountainous regions lying towards the north-west.  The rugged nature of that part of the country
interposed a formidable barrier to improvement, and the district still remained very imperfectly
opened up.  The only practicable roads were those which had been made by the soldiery after
the rebellions of 1715 and '45, through counties which before had been inaccessible except
by dangerous footpaths across high and rugged mountains.  An old epigram in vogue at the end
of last century ran thus:

   "Had you seen these roads before they were made,
    You'd lift up your hands and bless General Wade!"

Being constructed by soldiers for military purposes, they were first known as "military roads."
One was formed along the Great Glen of Scotland, in the line of the present Caledonian Canal,
connected with the Lowlands by the road through Glencoe by Tyndrum down the western banks of
Loch Lomond; another, more northerly, connected Fort Augustus with Dunkeld by Blair Athol;
while a third, still further to the north and east, connected Fort George with Cupar-in-Angus
by Badenoch and Braemar.

The military roads were about eight hundred miles in extent, and maintained at the public expense.
But they were laid out for purposes of military occupation rather than for the convenience
of the districts which they traversed.  Hence they were comparatively little used, and the
Highlanders, in passing from one place to another, for the most part continued to travel by
the old cattle tracks along the mountains.  But the population were as yet so poor and so spiritless,
and industry was in so backward a state all over the Highlands, that the want of more convenient
communications was scarcely felt.

Though there was plenty of good timber in certain districts, the bark was the only part that
could be sent to market, on the backs of ponies, while the timber itself was left to rot upon
the ground. Agriculture was in a surprisingly backward state.  In the remoter districts only
a little oats or barley was grown, the chief part of which was required for the sustenance
of the cattle during winter. The Rev. Mr. Macdougall, minister of the parishes of Lochgoilhead
and Kilmorich, in Argyleshire, described the people of that part of the country, about the
year 1760, as miserable beyond description. He says, "Indolence was almost the only comfort
they enjoyed. There was scarcely any variety of wretchedness with which they were not obliged
to struggle, or rather to which they were not obliged to submit.  They often felt what it was
to want food....  To such an extremity were they frequently reduced, that they were obliged
to bleed their cattle, in order to subsist some time on the blood (boiled); and even the inhabitants
of the glens and valleys repaired in crowds to the shore, at the distance of three or four
miles, to pick up the scanty provision which the shell-fish afforded them."*[2]

The plough had not yet penetrated into the Highlands; an instrument called the cas-chrom*[3]

[Image] The Cas-Chrom.

--literally the "crooked foot"--the use of which had been forgotten for hundreds of years in
every other country in Europe, was almost the only tool employed in tillage in those parts
of the Highlands which were separated by almost impassable mountains from the rest of the United
Kingdom.

The native population were by necessity peaceful.  Old feuds were restrained by the strong
arm of the law, if indeed the spirit of the clans had not been completely broken by the severe
repressive measures which followed the rebellion of Forty-five.  But the people had hot yet
learnt to bend their backs, like the Sassenach, to the stubborn soil, and they sat gloomily
by their turf-fires at home, or wandered away to settle in other lands beyond the seas.  It
even began to be feared that the country would so on be entirely depopulated; and it became
a matter of national concern to devise methods of opening up the district so as to develope
its industry and afford improved means of sustenance for its population. The poverty of the
inhabitants rendered the attempt to construct roads--even had they desired them--beyond their
scanty means; but the ministry of the day entertained the opinion that, by contributing a certain
proportion of the necessary expense, the proprietors of Highland estates might be induced to
advance the remainder; and on this principle the construction of the new roads in those districts
was undertaken.

The country lying to the west of the Great Glen was absolutely without a road of any kind.
The only district through which travellers passed was that penetrated by the great Highland
road by Badenoch, between Perth and Inverness; and for a considerable time after the suppression
of the rebellion of 1745, it was infested by gangs of desperate robbers.  So unsafe was the
route across the Grampians, that persons who had occasion to travel it usually made their wills
before setting out.  Garrons, or little Highland ponies, were then used by the gentry as well
as the peasantry.  Inns were few and bad; and even when postchaises were introduced at Inverness,
the expense of hiring one was thought of for weeks, perhaps months, and arrangements were usually
made for sharing it among as many individuals as it would contain.  If the harness and springs
of the vehicle held together, travellers thought themselves fortunate in reaching Edinburgh,
jaded and weary, but safe in purse and limb, on the eighth day after leaving Inverness.*[4]
Very few persons then travelled into the Highlands on foot, though Bewick, the father of wood-engraving,
made such a journey round Loch Lomond in 1775. He relates that his appearance excited the greatest
interest at the Highland huts in which he lodged, the women  curiously examining him from head
to foot, having never seen an  Englishman before. The strange part of his story is, that he
set out upon his journey from Cherryburn, near Newcastle, with only three  guineas sewed in
his waistband, and when he reached home he had still a few shillings left in his pocket!

