From this point the valley of the Magra is exceeding rich with fruit trees, vines, and olives.
The tendrils of the vine are yellow now, and in some places hued like generous wine; through
their thick leaves the sun shot crimson. In one cool garden, as the day grew dusk, I noticed
quince trees laden with pale fruit entangled with pomegranates--green spheres and ruddy amid
burnished leaves. By the roadside too were many berries of bright hues; the glowing red of
haws and hips, the amber of the pyracanthus, the rose tints of the spindle-wood. These make
autumn even lovelier than spring. And then there was a wood of chestnuts carpeted with pale
pink ling, a place to dream of in the twilight. But the main motive of this landscape was the
indescribable Carrara range, an island of pure form and shooting peaks, solid marble, crystalline
in shape and texture, faintly blue against the blue sky, from which they were but scarce divided.
These mountains close the valley to south-east, and seem as though they belonged to another
and more celestial region.

Soon the sunlight was gone, and moonrise came to close the day, as we rolled onward to Sarzana,
through arundo donax and vine-girdled olive trees and villages, where contadini lounged upon
the bridges. There was a stream of sound in our ears, and in my brain a rhythmic dance of beauties
caught through the long-drawn glorious golden autumn-day.

III.--FOSDINOVO.

The hamlet and the castle of Fosdinovo stand upon a mountain-spur above Sarzana, commanding
the valley of the Magra and the plains of Luni. This is an ancient fief of the Malaspina House,
and still in the possession of the Marquis of that name.

The road to Fosdinovo strikes across the level through an avenue of plane trees, shedding their
discoloured leaves. It then takes to the open fields, bordered with tall reeds waving from
the foss on either hand, where grapes are hanging to the vines. The country-folk allow their
vines to climb into the olives, and these golden festoons are a great ornament to the grey
branches. The berries on the trees are still quite green, and it is a good olive season. Leaving
the main road, we pass a villa of the Malaspini, shrouded in immense thickets of sweet bay
and ilex, forming a grove for the Nymphs or Pan. Here may you see just such clean stems and
lucid foliage as Gian Bellini painted, inch by inch, in his Peter Martyr picture. The place
is neglected now; the semicircular seats of white Carrara marble are stained with green mosses,
the altars chipped, the fountains choked with bay leaves; and the rose trees, escaped from
what were once trim garden alleys, have gone wandering a-riot into country hedges. There is
no demarcation between the great man's villa and the neighbouring farms. From this point the
path rises, and the barren hill-side is a-bloom with late-flowering myrtles. Why did the Greeks
consecrate these myrtle-rods to Death as well as Love? Electra complained that her father's
tomb had not received the honour of the myrtle branch; and the Athenians wreathed their swords
with myrtle in memory of Harmodius. Thinking of these matters, I cannot but remember lines
of Greek, which have themselves the rectitude and elasticity of myrtle wands:

    +kai prospesôn eklaus' erêmias tychôn
    spondas te lysas askon on pherô zenois
    espeisa tymbô d' amphethêka mursinas.+

As we approach Fosdinovo, the hills above us gain sublimity; the prospect over plain and sea--the
fields where Luna was, the widening bay of Spezzia--grows ever grander. The castle is a ruin,
still capable of partial habitation, and now undergoing repair--the state in which a ruin looks
most sordid and forlorn. How strange it is, too, that, to enforce this sense of desolation,
sad dishevelled weeds cling ever to such antique masonry! Here are the henbane, the sow-thistle,
the wild cucumber. At Avignon, at Orvieto, at Dolce Acqua, at Les Baux, we never missed them.
And they have the dusty courtyards, the massive portals, where portcullises still threaten,
of Fosdinovo to themselves. Over the gate, and here and there on corbels, are carved the arms
of Malaspina--a barren thorn-tree, gnarled with the geometrical precision of heraldic irony.

Leaning from the narrow windows of this castle, with the spacious view to westward, I thought
of Dante. For Dante in this castle was the guest of Moroello Malaspina, what time he was yet
finishing the "Inferno." There is a little old neglected garden, full to south, enclosed upon
a rampart which commands the Borgo, where we found frail canker-roses and yellow amaryllis.
Here, perhaps, he may have sat with ladies--for this was the Marchesa's pleasance; or may have
watched through a short summer's night, until he saw that tremolar della marina, portending
dawn, which afterwards he painted in the "Purgatory."

From Fosdinovo one can trace the Magra work its way out seaward, not into the plain where once
the candentia moenia Lunæ flashed sunrise from their battlements, but close beside the little
hills which back the the southern arm of the Spezzian gulf. At the extreme end of that promontory,
called Del Corvo, stood the Benedictine convent of S. Croce; and it was here in 1309, if we
may trust to tradition, that Dante, before his projected journey into France, appeared and
left the first part of his poem with the Prior. Fra Ilario, such was the good father's name,
received commission to transmit the "Inferno" to Uguccione della Faggiuola; and he subsequently
recorded the fact of Dante's visit in a letter which, though its genuineness has been called
in question, is far too interesting to be left without allusion. The writer says that on occasion
of a journey into lands beyond the Riviera, Dante visited this convent, appearing silent and
unknown among the monks. To the Prior's question what he wanted, he gazed upon the brotherhood,
and only answered, "Peace!" Afterwards, in private conversation, he communicated his name and
spoke about his poem. A portion of the "Divine Comedy" composed in the Italian tongue aroused
Ilario's wonder, and led him to inquire why his guest had not followed the usual course of
learned poets by committing his thoughts to Latin. Dante replied that he had first intended
to write in that language, and that he had gone so far as to begin the poem in Virgilian hexameters.
Reflection upon the altered conditions of society in that age led him, however, to reconsider
the matter; and he was resolved to tune another lyre, "suited to the sense of modern men."
"For," said he, "it is idle to set solid food before the lips of sucklings."

If we can trust Fra Ilario's letter as a genuine record, which is unhappily a matter of some
doubt, we have in this narration not only a picturesque, almost a melodramatically picturesque
glimpse of the poet's apparition to those quiet monks in their seagirt house of peace, but
also an interesting record of the destiny which presided over the first great work of literary
art in a distinctly modern language.

IV. LA SPEZZIA.

While we were at Fosdinovo the sky filmed over, and there came a halo round the sun. This portended
change; and by evening, after we had reached La Spezzia, earth, sea, and air were conscious
of a coming tempest. At night I went down to the shore, and paced the sea-wall they have lately
built along the Rada. The moon was up, but overdriven with dry smoky clouds, now thickening
to blackness over the whole bay, now leaving intervals through which the light poured fitfully
and fretfully upon the wrinkled waves; and ever and anon they shuddered with electric gleams
which were not actual lightning. Heaven seemed to be descending on the sea; one might have
fancied that some powerful charms were drawing down the moon with influence malign upon those
still resisting billows. For not as yet the gulf was troubled to its depth, and not as yet
the breakers dashed in foam against the moonlight-smitten promontories. There was but an uneasy
murmuring of wave to wave; a whispering of wind, that stooped its wing and hissed along the
surface, and withdrew into the mystery of clouds again; a momentary chafing of churned water
round the harbour piers, subsiding into silence petulant and sullen. I leaned against an iron
stanchion and longed for the sea's message. But nothing came to me, and the drowned secret
of Shelley's death those waves which were his grave revealed not.

    "Howler and scooper of storms! capricious and dainty sea!"

Meanwhile the incantation swelled in shrillness, the electric shudders deepened. Alone in this
elemental overture to tempest I took no note of time, but felt, through self-abandonment to
the symphonic influence, how sea and air, and clouds akin to both, were dealing with each other
complainingly, and in compliance to some maker of unrest within them. A touch upon my shoulder
broke this trance; I turned and saw a boy beside me in a coastguard's uniform. Francesco was
on patrol that night; but my English accent soon assured him that I was no contrabbandiere,
and he too leaned against the stanchion and told me his short story. He was in his nineteenth
year, and came from Florence, where his people live in the Borgo Ognissanti. He had all the
brightness of the Tuscan folk, a sort of innocent malice mixed with espièglerie. It was diverting
to see the airs he gave himself on the strength of his new military dignity, his gun, and uniform,
and night duty on the shore. I could not help humming to myself Non più andrai; for Francesco
was a sort of Tuscan Cherubino. We talked about picture galleries and libraries in Florence,
and I had to hear his favourite passages from the Italian poets. And then there came the plots
of Jules Verne's stories and marvellous narrations about l'uomo cavallo, l'uomo volante, l'uomo
pesce. The last of these personages turned out to be Paolo Boÿnton (so pronounced), who had
swam the Arno in his diving dress, passing the several bridges, and when he came to the great
weir "allora tutti stare con bocca aperta." Meanwhile the storm grew serious, and our conversation
changed. Francesco told me about the terrible sun-stricken sand shores of the Riviera, burning
in summer noon, over which the coastguard has to tramp, their perils from falling stones in
storm, and the trains that come rushing from those narrow tunnels on the midnight line of march.
It is a hard life; and the thirst for adventure which drove this boy--il più matto di tutta
la famiglia--to adopt it, seems well-nigh quenched. And still, with a return to Giulio Verne,
he talked enthusiastically of deserting, of getting on board a merchant ship, and working his
way to southern islands where wonders are.

A furious blast swept the whole sky for a moment almost clear. The moonlight fell, with racing
cloud-shadows, upon sea and hills, the lights of Lerici, the great fanali at the entrance of
the gulf, and Francesco's upturned handsome face. Then all again was whirled in mist and foam;
one breaker smote the sea-wall in a surge of froth, another plunged upon its heels; with inconceivable
swiftness came rain; lightning deluged the expanse of surf, and showed the windy trees bent
landward by the squall. It was long past midnight now, and the storm was on us for the space
of three days.

V.--PORTO VENERE.

For the next three days the wind went worrying on, and a line of surf leapt on the sea-wall
always to the same height. The hills all around were inky black and weary.

