This discussion naturally divides the subject.  I shall first consider women in the grand light
of human creatures, who, in common with men, are placed on this earth to unfold their faculties;
and afterwards I shall more particularly point out their peculiar designation.

I wish also to steer clear of an error, which many respectable writers have fallen into; for
the instruction which has hitherto been addressed to women, has rather been applicable to LADIES,
if the little indirect advice, that is scattered through Sandford and Merton, be excepted;
but, addressing my sex in a firmer tone, I pay particular attention to those in the middle
class, because they appear to be in the most natural state.  Perhaps the seeds of false refinement,
immorality, and vanity have ever been shed by the great.  Weak, artificial beings raised above
the common wants and affections of their race, in a premature unnatural manner, undermine the
very foundation of virtue, and spread corruption through the whole mass of society!  As a class
of mankind they have the strongest claim to pity! the education of the rich tends to render
them vain and helpless, and the unfolding mind is not strengthened by the practice of those
duties which dignify the human character.  They only live to amuse themselves, and by the same
law which in nature invariably produces certain effects, they soon only afford barren amusement.

My own sex, I hope, will excuse me, if I treat them like rational creatures, instead of flattering
their FASCINATING graces, and viewing them as if they were in a state of perpetual childhood,
unable to stand alone.  I earnestly wish to point out in what true dignity and human happiness
consists--I wish to persuade women to endeavour to acquire strength, both of mind and body,
and to convince them, that the soft phrases, susceptibility of heart, delicacy of sentiment,
and refinement of taste, are almost synonymous with epithets of weakness, and that those beings
who are only the objects of pity and that kind of love, which has been termed its sister, will
soon become objects of contempt.

This is a rough sketch of my plan; and should I express my conviction with the energetic emotions
that I feel whenever I think of the subject, the dictates of experience and reflection will
be felt by some of my readers.

These pretty nothings, these caricatures of the real beauty of sensibility, dropping glibly
from the tongue, vitiate the taste, and create a kind of sickly delicacy that turns away from
simple unadorned truth; and a deluge of false sentiments and over-stretched feelings, stifling
the natural emotions of the heart, render the domestic pleasures insipid, that ought to sweeten
the exercise of those severe duties, which educate a rational and immortal being for a nobler
field of action.

The education of women has, of late, been more attended to than formerly; yet they are still
reckoned a frivolous sex, and ridiculed or pitied by the writers who endeavour by satire or
instruction to improve them.  It is acknowledged that they spend many of the first years of
their lives in acquiring a smattering of accomplishments:  meanwhile, strength of body and
mind are sacrificed to libertine notions of beauty, to the desire of establishing themselves,
the only way women can rise in the world--by marriage.  And this desire making mere animals
of them, when they marry, they act as such children may be expected to act: they dress; they
paint, and nickname God's creatures.  Surely these weak beings are only fit for the seraglio!
Can they govern a family, or take care of the poor babes whom they bring into the world?

If then it can be fairly deduced from the present conduct of the sex, from the prevalent fondness
for pleasure, which takes place of ambition and those nobler passions that open and enlarge
the soul; that the instruction which women have received has only tended, with the constitution
of civil society, to render them insignificant objects of desire; mere propagators of fools!
if it can be proved, that in aiming to accomplish them, without cultivating their understandings,
they are taken out of their sphere of duties, and made ridiculous and useless when the short
lived bloom of beauty is over*, I presume that RATIONAL men will excuse me for endeavouring
to persuade them to become more masculine and respectable.

(*Footnote.  A lively writer, I cannot recollect his name, asks what business women turned
of forty have to do in the world.)

Indeed the word masculine is only a bugbear:  there is little reason to fear that women will
acquire too much courage or fortitude; for their apparent inferiority with respect to bodily
strength, must render them, in some degree, dependent on men in the various relations of life;
but why should it be increased by prejudices that give a sex to virtue, and confound simple
truths with sensual reveries?

Women are, in fact, so much degraded by mistaken notions of female excellence, that I do not
mean to add a paradox when I assert, that this artificial weakness produces a propensity to
tyrannize, and gives birth to cunning, the natural opponent of strength, which leads them to
play off those contemptible infantile airs that undermine esteem even whilst they excite desire.
Do not foster these prejudices, and they will naturally fall into their subordinate, yet respectable
station in life.

It seems scarcely necessary to say, that I now speak of the sex in general.  Many individuals
have more sense than their male relatives; and, as nothing preponderates where there is a constant
struggle for an equilibrium, without it has naturally more gravity, some women govern their
husbands without degrading themselves, because intellect will always govern.

VINDICATION OF THE RIGHTS OF WOMAN.

CHAPTER 1.

THE RIGHTS AND INVOLVED DUTIES OF MANKIND CONSIDERED.

In the present state of society, it appears necessary to go back to first principles in search
of the most simple truths, and to dispute with some prevailing prejudice every inch of ground.
To clear my way, I must be allowed to ask some plain questions, and the answers will probably
appear as unequivocal as the axioms on which reasoning is built; though, when entangled with
various motives of action, they are formally contradicted, either by the words or conduct of men.

In what does man's pre-eminence over the brute creation consist? The answer is as clear as
that a half is less than the whole; in Reason.

What acquirement exalts one being above another?  Virtue; we spontaneously reply.

For what purpose were the passions implanted?  That man by struggling with them might attain
a degree of knowledge denied to the brutes:  whispers Experience.

Consequently the perfection of our nature and capability of happiness, must be estimated by
the degree of reason, virtue, and knowledge, that distinguish the individual, and direct the
laws which bind society:  and that from the exercise of reason, knowledge and virtue naturally
flow, is equally undeniable, if mankind be viewed collectively.

The rights and duties of man thus simplified, it seems almost impertinent to attempt to illustrate
truths that appear so incontrovertible:  yet such deeply rooted prejudices have clouded reason,
and such spurious qualities have assumed the name of virtues, that it is necessary to pursue
the course of reason as it has been perplexed and involved in error, by various adventitious
circumstances, comparing the simple axiom with casual deviations.

Men, in general, seem to employ their reason to justify prejudices, which they have imbibed,
they cannot trace how, rather than to root them out.  The mind must be strong that resolutely
forms its own principles; for a kind of intellectual cowardice prevails which makes many men
shrink from the task, or only do it by halves.  Yet the imperfect conclusions thus drawn, are
frequently very plausible, because they are built on partial experience, on just, though narrow,
views.

Going back to first principles, vice skulks, with all its native deformity, from close investigation;
but a set of shallow reasoners are always exclaiming that these arguments prove too much, and
that a measure rotten at the core may be expedient.  Thus expediency is continually contrasted
with simple principles, till truth is lost in a mist of words, virtue in forms, and knowledge
rendered a sounding nothing, by the specious prejudices that assume its name.

That the society is formed in the wisest manner, whose constitution is founded on the nature
of man, strikes, in the abstract, every thinking being so forcibly, that it looks like presumption
to endeavour to bring forward proofs; though proof must be brought, or the strong hold of prescription
will never be forced by reason; yet to urge prescription as an argument to justify the depriving
men (or women) of their natural rights, is one of the absurd sophisms which daily insult common
sense.

The civilization of the bulk of the people of Europe, is very partial; nay, it may be made
a question, whether they have acquired any virtues in exchange for innocence, equivalent to
the misery produced by the vices that have been plastered over unsightly ignorance, and the
freedom which has been bartered for splendid slavery.  The desire of dazzling by riches, the
most certain pre-eminence that man can obtain, the pleasure of commanding flattering sycophants,
and many other complicated low calculations of doting self-love, have all contributed to overwhelm
the mass of mankind, and make liberty a convenient handle for mock patriotism. For whilst rank
and titles are held of the utmost importance, before which Genius "must hide its diminished
head," it is, with a few exceptions, very unfortunate for a nation when a man of abilities,
without rank or property, pushes himself forward to notice.  Alas! what unheard of misery have
thousands suffered to purchase a cardinal's hat for an intriguing obscure adventurer, who longed
to be ranked with princes, or lord it over them by seizing the triple crown!

Such, indeed, has been the wretchedness that has flowed from hereditary honours, riches, and
monarchy, that men of lively sensibility have almost uttered blasphemy in order to justify
the dispensations of providence.  Man has been held out as independent of his power who made
him, or as a lawless planet darting from its orbit to steal the celestial fire of reason; and
the vengeance of heaven, lurking in the subtile flame, sufficiently punished his temerity,
by introducing evil into the world.

Impressed by this view of the misery and disorder which pervaded society, and fatigued with
jostling against artificial fools, Rousseau became enamoured of solitude, and, being at the
same time an optimist, he labours with uncommon eloquence to prove that man was naturally a
solitary animal.  Misled by his respect for the goodness of God, who certainly for what man
of sense and feeling can doubt it! gave life only to communicate happiness, he considers evil
as positive, and the work of man; not aware that he was exalting one attribute at the expense
of another, equally necessary to divine perfection.

Reared on a false hypothesis, his arguments in favour of a state of nature are plausible, but
unsound.  I say unsound; for to assert that a state of nature is preferable to civilization
in all its possible perfection, is, in other words, to arraign supreme wisdom; and the paradoxical
exclamation, that God has made all things right, and that evil has been introduced by the creature
whom he formed, knowing what he formed, is as unphilosophical as impious.

When that wise Being, who created us and placed us here, saw the fair idea, he willed, by allowing
it to be so, that the passions should unfold our reason, because he could see that present
evil would produce future good.  Could the helpless creature whom he called from nothing, break
loose from his providence, and boldly learn to know good by practising evil without his permission?
No. How could that energetic advocate for immortality argue so inconsistently?  Had mankind
remained for ever in the brutal state of nature, which even his magic pen cannot paint as a
state in which a single virtue took root, it would have been clear, though not to the sensitive
unreflecting wanderer, that man was born to run the circle of life and death, and adorn God's
garden for some purpose which could not easily be reconciled with his attributes.

But if, to crown the whole, there were to be rational creatures produced, allowed to rise in
excellency by the exercise of powers implanted for that purpose; if benignity itself thought
fit to call into existence a creature above the brutes, who could think and improve himself,
why should that inestimable gift, for a gift it was, if a man was so created as to have a capacity
to rise above the state in which sensation produced brutal ease, be called, in direct terms,
a curse?  A curse it might be reckoned, if all our existence was bounded by our continuance
in this world; for why should the gracious fountain of life give us passions, and the power
of reflecting, only to embitter our days, and inspire us with mistaken notions of dignity?
Why should he lead us from love of ourselves to the sublime emotions which the discovery of
his wisdom and goodness excites, if these feelings were not set in motion to improve our nature,
of which they make a part, and render us capable of enjoying a more godlike portion of happiness?
Firmly persuaded that no evil exists in the world that God did not design to take place, I
build my belief on the perfection of God.

Rousseau exerts himself to prove, that all WAS right originally:  a crowd of authors that all
IS now right:  and I, that all WILL BE right.

But, true to his first position, next to a state of nature, Rousseau celebrates barbarism,
and, apostrophizing the shade of Fabricius, he forgets that, in conquering the world, the Romans
never dreamed of establishing their own liberty on a firm basis, or of extending the reign
of virtue.  Eager to support his system, he stigmatizes, as vicious, every effort of genius;
and uttering the apotheosis of savage virtues, he exalts those to demigods, who were scarcely
human--the brutal Spartans, who in defiance of justice and gratitude, sacrificed, in cold blood,
the slaves that had shown themselves men to rescue their oppressors.

Disgusted with artificial manners and virtues, the citizen of Geneva, instead of properly sifting
the subject, threw away the wheat with the chaff, without waiting to inquire whether the evils,
which his ardent soul turned from indignantly, were the consequence of civilization, or the
vestiges of barbarism.  He saw vice trampling on virtue, and the semblance of goodness taking
place of the reality; he saw talents bent by power to sinister purposes, and never thought
of tracing the gigantic mischief up to arbitrary power, up to the hereditary distinctions that
clash with the mental superiority that naturally raises a man above his fellows.  He did not
perceive, that the regal power, in a few generations, introduces idiotism into the noble stem,
and holds out baits to render thousands idle and vicious.

