    "In the year 1635, upon the request of the Rev. Anthony Tuckney, Vicar
    of Boston, it was ordained by the Archbishop of Canterbury (Laud), then
    on his metropolitical visitation at Boston, 'that the roome over the
    porch of the saide churche shall be repaired and decently fitted up to
    make a librarye, to the end that, in case any well and charitably
    disposed person shall hereafter bestow any books to the use of the
    parish, they may be there safely preserved and kept.'"

This library at present contains several hundred volumes of ancient (patristic, scholastic,
and post-Reformation) divinity.

I hope to be able ere long to make a correct catalogue of the books at present remaining, and
at the same time make an attempt to restore them to that decent "keeping" in which the great
and good archbishop desired they might remain.

Query: In making preparations for the catalogue, I have been informed by a gentleman that he
remembers two or more cart loads of books from this library being sold by the churchwardens,
and, as he believes, by the then archdeacon's orders, at waste paper price; that the bulk of
them was purchased by a bookseller then resident in Boston, and re-sold by him to a clergyman
in the neighbourhood of Silsby.

1. What was the date of the sale?

2. The name of the Venerable Archdeacon who perpetrated this robbery?

3. Whether there are any legal means for recovering the missing works?

My extracts are from Thompson's History of Boston, a correspondent of yours, a new edition
of whose laborious work is about to appear.

THOMAS COLLIS.

Boston.

Painter--Derrick (Vol. vii., pp. 178. 391.).--I cannot agree with J. S. C. that painter is
a corruption of punter, from the Saxon punt, a boat. {508} According to the construction and
analogy of our language, a punter or boater would be the person who worked or managed the boat.
I consider that painter--like halter and tether, derived from Gothic words signifying to hold
and to tie--is a corruption of bynder, from the Saxon bynd, to bind. If the Anglo-Norman word
panter, a snare for catching and holding birds, be a corruption of bynder, we are brought to
the word at once. Or, indeed, we may go no farther back than panter.

J. C. G. says that derrick is an ancient British word: perhaps he will be kind enough to let
us know its signification. I always understood that a derrick took its name from Derrick, the
notorious executioner at Tyburn, in the early part of the seventeenth century, whose name was
long a general term for hangman. In merchant ships, the derrick, for hoisting up goods, is
always placed at the hatchway, close by the gallows. The derrick, however, is not a nautical
appliance alone; it has been long used to raise stones at buildings; but the crane, and that
excellent invention the handy-paddy, has now almost put it out of employment. What will philologists,
two or three centuries hence, make out of the word handy-paddy, which is universally used by
workmen to designate the powerful winch, traversing on temporary rails, employed to raise heavy
weights at large buildings. For the benefit of posterity, I may say that it is very handy for
the masons, and almost invariably worked by Irishmen.

As a collateral evidence to my opinion, that painter is derived from the Saxon bynder, through
the Anglo-Norman panter, and that derrick is from Derrick the hangman, I may add that these
words are unknown in the nautical technology of any other language.

W. PINKERTON.

Ham.

Pepys's "Morena"

BRAYBROOKE.

Pylades and Corinna (Vol. vii., p. 305.).--If your correspondent's question have reference
to the two volumes in octavo published under this title in 1731, assuredly Defoe had nothing
to do with them, as must be evident to any one on the most cursory glance. The volumes contain
memoirs of Mrs. Elizabeth Thomas, on whom Dryden conferred the poetical title of Corinna, and
the letters which passed between her and Richard Gwinnett, her intended husband. A biography
of this lady, neither whose life nor poetry were of the best, may be found in Chalmers's Biog.
Dict., vol. xxix. p. 281., and a farther one in Cibber's Lives, vol. iv. The Dunciad, and her
part in the publication of Pope's early correspondence, have given her an unhappy notoriety.
I must say, however, that, notwithstanding his provocation, I cannot but think that he treated
this poor woman ungenerously.

JAMES CROSSLEY.

Judge Smith (Vol. vii., p. 463.).--I must confess my ignorance of any Judge Smith flourishing
in the reign of Elizabeth. I know of only three judges of that name.

1. John Smith, a Baron of the Exchequer during the last seven years of the reign of Henry VIII.
From him descended the Lords Carrington of Wotton Waven, in Warwickshire, a title which became
extinct in 1705.

2. John Smith, who was also a Baron of the Exchequer in the reign of Anne. He became Chief
Baron of the Exchequer in Scotland in 1708, and died in 1726. He endowed a hospital for poor
widows at Frolesworth in Leicestershire.

3. Sidney Stafford Smythe, likewise a Baron of the Exchequer under George II. and III., and
Chief Baron in the latter reign. He was of the same family as that of the present Viscount
Strangford.

If Z. E. R. would be good enough to send a copy of the inscription on the monument in Chesterfield
Church, and give some particulars of the family seated at Winston Hall, the difficulty will
probably be removed.

EDWARD FOSS.

Grindle (Vol. vii., pp. 107. 307. 384.).--As one at least of the readers of "N. & Q." living
near Grindle (Greendale is modern), allow me to say that from the little I know of the places,
they appear to me "to possess no traces of those natural features which would justify the demoniacal
derivation proposed by I. E." However, as my judgment may be of little worth, if "I. E. of
Oxford" should ever migrate into these parts, and will favour me with a call, with credentials
of being the veritable I. E. of "N. & Q.," I shall have much pleasure in assisting him to examine
for himself all the local knowledge which a short walk to the spots may enable him to acquire.

H. T. ELLACOMBE.

Rectory, Clyst St. George.

Simile of the Soul and the Magnetic Needle (Vol. vi., pp. 127. 207. 280. 368. 566.).--Dr. Arnold,
with more religion than science, thus employs this simile:

    "Men get embarrassed by the common cases of misguided conscience; but a
    compass may be out of order as well as a conscience, and the needle may
    point due south if you hold a powerful magnet in that direction. Still
    the compass, generally speaking, is a true and sure guide, and so is
    the conscience; and you {509} can trace the deranging influence on the
    latter quite as surely as on the former."--Life and Correspondence,
    2nd ed. p. 390.

C. MANSFIELD INGLEBY.

Birmingham.

English Bishops deprived by Queen Elizabeth, 1559 (Vol. vii., p. 260.).--I have endeavoured
to procure some information for A. S. A. on those points which MR. DREDGE left unnoticed, but
find that, after his diligent search, very little indeed is to be gleaned. Bishop Payne died
in January, 1559/60 (Strype's Annals, anno 1559). Dod, in vol. i. p. 507. of his Church History,
mentions a letter of Bishop Goldwell's, or, as he calls him, Godwell's, to Dr. Allen, dated
anno 1581:

    "This letter," he says, "seems to be written not long before Bishop
    Godwell's death, for I meet with no farther mention of him. Here the
    reader may take notice of a mistake in Dr. Heylin, who tells us he died
    prisoner in Wisbich Castle, which is to be understood of Bishop
    Watson."

Of Bishop Pate he says:

    "He was alive in 1562, but how long after I do not find."--Vol. i. p.
    488.

