 In fact I don't think
I shall go at all.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

(BY MR. PUNCH'S STAFF OF LEARNED CLERICS.)

Secrets of the Bosphorus (HUTCHINSON) is one of the happily large number of books to which
time and tardy-footed justice have now added an unwritten chapter that makes amends for all.
But for the glories of the last few months I think I could hardly have borne to read many of
these "revelations" of Mr. HENRY MORGENTHAU, sometime American Ambassador to Turkey. They make
strange and often tragic reading. One of them is already famous: the disclosure of the narrow
margin by which the attack of the Allied fleets upon the Dardanelles came short of victory.
For that, with all its ghastly sequence of misadventure, no happy end can quite compensate.
But one may read more pleasantly now of the Prussian Baron WANGENHEIM, sitting the day long
on a bench before his official residence to exult publicly in what looked like the triumphal
march to Paris. Mr. MORGENTHAU has many other matters of interest in his note-book, a large
part of which is occupied by the story, almost incredible even in an age of horrors, of the
planned slaughter by the Turkish rulers, with Germany as accessory before and after the act,
of "at least 600,000 and perhaps as many as 1,000,000" Armenians. He rightly calls this murder
of a nation probably the blackest deed in all the foul record of the war, in which (at the
precise moment of its execution) the same people who now protest against the severity of our
terms were taking a horrible and ruthless joy. The reminder is apt.

       *       *       *       *       *

Much of the pleasure that I have just enjoyed over Mr. ARTHUR SYMONS' essays of travel in Cities
and Sea Coasts and Islands (COLLINS) belongs to the wistful joy of recollection: remembered
loveliness in the beautiful places of which he writes so vividly, remembered peace of the quiet
unpreoccupied days in which they were written. The book is made up of three groups, studies
of Spain, of London and of certain coasts, chiefly Cornish. For several reasons I found the
last interested me most. There is entertainment in watching Mr. SYMONS, so essentially a dweller
in cities, discovering the open air like an explorer. You know already his mastery of delicate
and sensitive words; many of these pages catch with exquisite skill the subtle charm of the
country between land and wave, as it would present itself to a receptive summer visitor rather
than the returned native. Mr. SYMONS' similes are essentially urban; the sea (to take an example
at random) has for him "something of the colour of absinthe." In fine, though he can and does
get into his pages much of the exhilaration of a tramp over heathery cliffs "smelling of honey
and sea wind," one retains throughout a not unpleasing consciousness of Paddington. I have
left myself too little space to deal adequately with other papers, among which I was delighted
to find again that called "Dieppe 1895," long remembered from The Savoy (though here, of course,
lacking the interpretation of the BEARDSLEY drawings). Certainly a book to read at leisure
and to keep "for further reference," perhaps in a future when travel studies may again become
of more than merely sentimental interest.

       *       *       *       *       *

