One day we were ordered by British headquarters to patrol many miles across the river where
it had been reported small parties of Bolos were raiding a village. We had seventeen sleighs
drawn by little shaggy ponies, which we left standing in their harnesses and attached to the
sleighs while we slept among the trees beside a great roaring blaze that our Russian drivers
piled high with big logs the whole night through; and the next morning, in the phantom gloom
we were off again, gliding noiselessly through the forest, charged with the unutterable stillness
of infinite ethereal space; but, as the shadows paled, there was unfolded a fairyland of enchanted
wonders that I shall always remember. Invisible hands of artistry had draped the countless
pines with garlands and wreaths of white with filmy aigrettes and huge, ponderous globes and
festoons woven by the frost in an exquisite and fantastic handiwork; and when the sun came
out, as it did for a few moments, every ornament on those decorated Christmas trees glittered
and twinkled with the magic of ten thousand candles. It was enchanted toyland spread before
us and we were held spell bound by a profusion of airy wonders that unfolded without end as
we threaded our way through the forest flanked by the straight, towering trunks.

After a few miles the ponies could go no further through the high drifts, so we left them and
made our way on snowshoes a long distance to a group of log houses the reported rendezvous
of the Bolsheviks, but there were no Bolos there, nor any signs of recent occupancy, so we
burned the huts and very wearily dragged our snow shoes the long way back to the ponies. They
were wet with sweat when we left them belly deep in the snow; but there they were, waiting
with an attitude of patient resignation truly Russian and they made the journey homeward with
more speed and in higher spirits than when they came. There is only one thing tougher than
the Russian pony and that is his driver, for the worthies who conducted us on this lengthy
journey walked most of the way through the snow and in the intense cold, eating a little black
bread, washed down with hot tea, and sleeping not at all.

WAGNER Something Like a Selective Draft

WAGNER Canadian Artillery, Kurgomin

U. S. OFFICIAL Watch-Tower, Verst 455

U. S. OFFICIAL Toulgas Outpost

U. S. OFFICIAL One of a Bolo Patrol

U. S. OFFICIAL Patrolling

Those long weeks of patrol and sentry duty were wearing on the men. Sentinels were continually
seeing things at night that were not. Once we were hurried out into the cold darkness by the
report of a great multitude of muttering voices approaching from the forest, but not a shot
answered our challenge and the next morning there in the snow were the fresh tracks of timber
wolves--a pack had come to the end of the woods--no wonder the Detroit fruit salesman on guard
thought the Bolos were upon us.

But not long afterwards the Bolos did come and more cunningly and stealthily than the wolf
pack, for in the black night they crept up and were engaged in the act of cutting the barbed
wire between the blockhouses, when a sentinel felt--there was no sound--something suspicious,
and sped a series of machine gun bullets in the direction he suspected. There was a fight lasting
for hours, and in the morning many dead Bolos were lying in the deep snow beyond the wire defenses.
They wore white smocks which, at any distance, in the dim daylight, blended distinctly with
the snow and at night were perfectly invisible. We were grateful to the sentinel with the intuitive
sense of impending danger. Some soldiers have this intuition. It is beyond explanation but
it exists. You have only to ask a soldier who has been in battle combat to verify the truth
of this assertion.

Still we decided not to rely entirely upon this remarkable faculty of intuition, some man might
be on watch not so gifted; and so we tramped down a path inside the wire encompassing the center
village. During the long periods between the light we kept up an ever vigilant patrol.

The Bolos came again at a time when the night was blackest, but they could not surprise us,
and they lost a great many men, trying to wade through waist deep snow, across barbed wire,
with machine guns working from behind blockhouses two hundred yards apart. It took courage
to run up against such obstacles and still keep going on. When we opened fire there was always
a great deal of yelling from the Bolos--commands from the officers to go forward, so our interpreters
said, protests from the devils, even as they protested, many were hit; but it is to be noted
that the officers stayed in the background of the picture. There was no Soviet leader who said
"follow me" through the floundering snow against those death scattering machine guns--it did
not take a great deal of intelligence to see what the chances were.

So weeks passed and we held on, wondering what the end would be. We did not fear that we should
lose Toulgas. With barbed wire and our surrounding blockhouses we were confident that we could
withstand a regiment trying to advance over that long field of snow; but the danger lay along
our tenuous line of communication.

The plight of the Yankee soldier in North Russia fighting the Bolsheviki in the winter of 1918-19
was often made the subject of newspaper cartoon. Below is reproduced one of Thomas' cartoons
from The Detroit News, which shows the doughboy sitting in a Toulgas trench--or a Kodish, or
Shred Makrenga, or Pinega, or Chekuevo, or Railroad trench. Of course this dire position was
at one of those places and at one of those times before the resourceful Yanks had had time
to consolidate their gains or fortify their newly accepted position in rear of their former
position. In a few hours--or few days at most, the American soldier would have dug in securely
and made himself rudely comfortable. That rude comfort would last till some British officer
decided to "put on a bit of a show," or till the Reds in overwhelming numbers or with tremendous
artillery pounding or both combined, compelled the Yanks to fight themselves into a new position
and go through the Arctic rigors of trench work again in zero weather for a few days. The cartoonist
knows the unconquerable spirit of humor with which the American meets his desperate situations;
for he puts into the soldier's mouth words that show that although he may have more of a job
than he bargained for, he can joke with his buddie about it. As reserve officers of that remarkable
North Russian expeditionary force the writers take off their hats in respect to the citizen
soldiers who campaigned with us under conditions that were, truth to say, usually better but
sometimes much worse than the trench situation pictured by the cartoon below. With grit and
gumption and good humor those citizen soldiers "endured hardness as good soldiers."

XIV

GREAT WHITE REACHES

Lines Of Communication Guarded Well--Fast Travelling Pony Sleighs--Major Williams Describes
Sled Trip--A Long Winter March--Visiting Three Hundred Year Old Monastery--Snowshoe Rabbit
Story--Driving Through Fairyland--Lonely, Thoughtful Rides Under White North Star--Wonderful
Aurora Borealis.

We left "F" Company in the winter, swirling snows guarding the many points of danger on the
long lines of communication. They were in December scattered all the way from Archangel to
Morjegorskaya. For a few weeks in January, Lieut. Sheridan with his platoon sat on the Bolo
lidtilters in Leunova in the lower Pinega Valley and then was hurried down the Dvina to another
threatened area. The Red success in pushing our forces out of Shenkursk and down the Vaga made
the upper Dvina and Vaga roads constantly subject to raiding parties of the Bolsheviki.

Early in February "K" Company came up from Archangel and took station at Yemetskoe, one platoon
being left at Kholmogori. "F" Company had been needed further to the front to support the first
battalion companies hard pressed by the enemy. Nervous and suspected villages alike were vigilantly
visited by strong patrols. On February 12th Captain Ramsay hurried up with two platoons to
reinforce Shred Mekhrenga, traveling a distance of forty versts in one day. But the enemy retired
mysteriously as he had oft before just when it seemed that he would overpower the British-Russian
force that had been calling for help. So the Americans were free to go back to the more ticklish
Vaga-Dvina area.

From here on the story of "F" Company on the lines of communication merges into the story of
the stern rear guard actions and the final holding up of the advance of the Reds, and their
gallant part will be read in the narrative related elsewhere.

Mention has already been made of the work of "G" and "M" Company platoons on the isolated Pinega
Valley lines and of "H" Company guarding the very important Onega-Obozerskaya road, over which
passed the mails and reinforcements from the outside world. The cluster of villages called
Bolsheozerki was on this road. Late in March it was overpowered by a strong force of the Reds
and before aid could come the Bolshevik Northern Army commander had wedged a heavy force in
there, threatening the key-point Obozerskaya. This point on the line of communication had been
guarded by detachments from the Railroad force at Obozerskaya, Americans alternating with French
soldiers, and both making use of Russian Allied troops. At the time of its capture it was occupied
by a section of French supported by Russian troops. The story of its recapture is told elsewhere.

The trail junction point Volshenitsa, between Seletskoe and Obozerskaya, was fitted up with
quarters for soldiers and vigilantly guarded against surprise attacks by the Reds from 443,
or Emtsa. Sometimes it was held by British and Russians from Seletskoe and sometimes by Americans
from Obozerskaya.

It sounds easy to say "Guarding lines of communication." But any veteran of the North Russian
expedition will tell you that the days and nights he spent at that duty were often severe tests.
When that Russki thermometer was way below forty and the canteen on the hip was solid ice within
twenty minutes of leaving the house, and the sleigh drivers' whiskers were a frozen Niagara,
and your little party had fifteen versts to go before seeing another village, you wondered
how long you would be able to handle your rifle if you should be ambushed by a party of Bolos.

With the settling down of winter the transportation along the great winter reaches of road
became a matter of fast traveling pony sleighs with frequent exchange of horses. Officers and
civil officials found this travel not unpleasant. The following story, taken from the Red Cross
Magazine and adapted to this volume, will give the doughboy a pleasing recollection and the
casual reader a vivid picture of the winter travel.

This might be the story of Captain Ramsay driving to Pinega in January to visit that front.
Or it might be old "Three-Hair" Doc Laird sledging to Soyla to see "Military Pete" Primm's
sturdy platoon. Or it might be Colonel Stewart on his remarkable trip to the river winter fronts.
However, it is the story of the active American Red Cross Major Williams, who hit the long
trails early and showed the rest the way.

"I have just returned from a trip by sled up the Pinega River, to the farthest point on that
section where American troops are located. The trip consumed six days and this, with the trip
to the Dvina front, makes a total of twenty days journeying by sled and about eight hundred
miles covered. Horses and not reindeer are used for transport. The Russian horse, like the
peasant, must be a stout breed to stand the strain and stress of existence. They are never
curried, are left standing in the open for hours, and usually in spots exposed to cruel winds
when there is a semblance of shelter available within a few feet. The peasants do not believe
in 'mollycoddling' their animals, nor themselves.

"On the return trip from Dvina I had a fine animal killed almost instantly by his breaking
his neck. It was about five o'clock in the afternoon, pitch dark of course, and our Russian
driver who, clad in reindeer skin and hood, resembled for all the world a polar bear on the
front of the sled shouted meaningless and unnecessary words to our two horses to speed them
on their way.

"All sexes and ages look alike in these reindeer parkis. We were in a semi-covered sled with
narrow runner, but with safety skids to prevent it from completely capsizing. At the foot of
every Russian hill the road makes a sharp turn. For a solid week we had been holding on at
these turns, but finally had become accustomed, or perhaps I should say resigned, to them.
Going down a long hill the horse holds back as long as he can, the driver assisting in retarding
the movement of the sled. But on steep hills, where this is not possible, it is a case of a
run for life.

"Our horse shied sharply at a sleeping bag which had been thrown from baggage sled ahead. The
safety skids could not save us, but made the angle of our overturn more complete. Kirkpatrick,
several pieces of his luggage, and an abnormal quantity of hay added to my discomfort. His
heavy blanket roll, which he had been using as a back rest, was thrown twenty feet. The top
of the sled acted as an ideal snow scoop and my head was rubbed in the snow thoroughly before
our little driver, who was hanging on to the reins (b-r-r b-r-r b-r-r) could hold down the
horse. It was not until an hour later, when our driver was bringing in our baggage, that I
discovered that our lives had been in the hands of a thirteen-year-old girl.

"After a trip of this sort one becomes more and more enthusiastic about his blanket roll. Sleeping
at all times upon the floor, and occasionally packed in like sardines with members of peasant
families all in the same room, separated only by an improvised curtain, we kept our health,
appetites and humor.

"A small village of probably two hundred houses. The American soldiers have been in every house.
At first the villagers distrusted them. Now they are the popular men of the community with
the elders as well as children. Their attitude toward the Russian peasant is helpful, conciliatory,
and sympathetic. One of these men told me that on the previous day he had seen a woman crying
on the street, saying that their rations would not hold out and they would be forced to eat
straw. The woman showed me a piece of bread, hardly a square meal for three persons, which
she produced carefully wrapped as if worth its weight in gold from a box in the corner. They
had been improvident in the use of their monthly ration of fifteen pounds of flour per person
and the end of the month, with yet three days to go, found them in a serious dilemma. When
the hard tack and sugar were produced they were speechless with astonishment. And the satisfaction
of the American soldier was great to see.

"Up on the Pinega River, many miles from any place, we passed a considerable body of American
soldiers headed to the front. Every man was the picture of health, cheeks aglow, head up, and
on the job. These same men were on the railroad front--four hundred miles in another direction--when
I had seen them last. There they were just coming out of the front line trenches and block
houses, wearing on their heads their steel hats and carrying on their backs everything but
the kitchen stove.

