After the ceremony we heard mass and contributed to three distinct offertories. Considering
how much account even two soldi are to these poor people, I was really angry when I heard the
copper shower. Every member of the party had his or her pennies ready, and dropped them into
the boxes. Whether it was the effect of the bad morning, or the ugliness of a very ill-designed
barocco building, or the fault of the fat oily priest, I know not. But the sposalizio struck
me as tame and cheerless, the mass as irreverent and vulgarly conducted. At the same time there
is something too impressive in the mass for any perfunctory performance to divest its symbolism
of sublimity. A Protestant Communion Service lends itself more easily to degradation by unworthiness
in the minister.

We walked down the church in double file, led by the bride and bridegroom, who had knelt during
the ceremony with the best man--compare, as he is called--at a narrow prie-dieu before the
altar. The compare is a person of distinction at these weddings. He has to present the bride
with a great pyramid of artificial flowers, which is placed before her at the marriage-feast,
a packet of candles, and a box of bonbons. The comfits, when the box is opened, are found to
include two magnificent sugar babies lying in their cradles. I was told that a compare, who
does the thing handsomely, must be prepared to spend about a hundred francs upon these presents,
in addition to the wine and cigars with which he treats his friends. On this occasion the women
were agreed that he had done his duty well. He was a fat, wealthy little man, who lived by
letting market-boats for hire on the Rialto.

From the church to the bride's house was a walk of some three minutes. On the way we were introduced
to the father of the bride--a very magnificent personage, with points of strong resemblance
to Vittorio Emmanuele. He wore an enormous broad-brimmed hat and emerald-green earrings, and
looked considerably younger than his eldest son, Francesco. Throughout the nozze he took the
lead in a grand imperious fashion of his own. Wherever he went, he seemed to fill the place,
and was fully aware of his own importance. In Florence I think he would have got the nickname
of Tacchin, or turkey-cock. Here at Venice the sons and daughters call their parent briefly
Vecchio. I heard him so addressed with a certain amount of awe, expecting an explosion of bubbly-jock
displeasure. But he took it, as though it was natural, without disturbance. The other Vecchio,
father of the bridegroom, struck me as more sympathetic. He was a gentle old man, proud of
his many prosperous, laborious sons. They, like the rest of the gentlemen, were gondoliers.
Both the Vecchi, indeed, continue to ply their trade, day and night, at the traghetto.

Traghetti are stations for gondolas at different points of the canals. As their name implies,
it is the first duty of the gondoliers upon them to ferry people across. This they do for the
fixed fee of five centimes. The traghetti are in fact Venetian cab-stands. And, of course,
like London cabs, the gondolas may be taken off them for trips. The municipality, however,
makes it a condition, under penalty of fine to the traghetto, that each station should always
be provided with two boats for the service of the ferry. When vacancies occur on the traghetti,
a gondolier who owns or hires a boat makes application to the municipality, receives a number,
and is inscribed as plying at a certain station. He has now entered a sort of guild, which
is presided over by a Capo-traghetto, elected by the rest for the protection of their interests,
the settlement of disputes, and the management of their common funds. In the old acts of Venice
this functionary is styled Gastaldo di traghetto. The members have to contribute something
yearly to the guild. This payment varies upon different stations, according to the greater
or less amount of the tax levied by the municipality on the traghetto. The highest subscription
I have heard of is twenty-five francs; the lowest, seven. There is one traghetto, known by
the name of Madonna del Giglio or Zobenigo, which possesses near its pergola of vines a nice
old brown Venetian picture. Some stranger offered a considerable sum for this. But the guild
refused to part with it.

As may be imagined, the traghetti vary greatly in the amount and quality of their custom. By
far the best are those in the neighbourhood of the hotels upon the Grand Canal. At any one
of these a gondolier during the season is sure of picking up some foreigner or other who will
pay him handsomely for comparatively light service. A traghetto on the Giudecca, on the contrary,
depends upon Venetian traffic. The work is more monotonous, and the pay is reduced to its tariffed
minimum. So far as I can gather, an industrious gondolier, with a good boat, belonging to a
good traghetto, may make as much as ten or fifteen francs in a single day. But this cannot
be relied on. They therefore prefer a fixed appointment with a private family, for which they
receive by tariff five francs a day, or by arrangement for long periods perhaps four francs
a day, with certain perquisites and small advantages. It is great luck to get such an engagement
for the winter. The heaviest anxieties which beset a gondolier are then disposed of. Having
entered private service, they are not allowed to ply their trade on the traghetto, except by
stipulation with their masters. Then they may take their place one night out of every six in
the rank and file. The gondoliers have two proverbs, which show how desirable it is, while
taking a fixed engagement, to keep their hold on the traghetto. One is to this effect: il traghetto
è un buon padrone. The other satirises the meanness of the poverty-stricken Venetian nobility:
pompa di servitù, misera insegna. When they combine the traghetto with private service, the
municipality insists on their retaining the number painted on their gondola; and against this
their employers frequently object. It is, therefore, a great point for a gondolier to make
such an arrangement with his master as will leave him free to show his number. The reason for
this regulation is obvious. Gondoliers are known more by their numbers and their traghetti
than their names. They tell me that though there are upwards of a thousand registered in Venice,
each man of the trade knows the whole confraternity by face and number. Taking all things into
consideration, I think four francs a day the whole year round are very good earnings for a
gondolier. On this he will marry and rear a family, and put a little money by. A young unmarried
man, working at two and a half or three francs a day, is proportionately well-to-do. If he
is economical, he ought upon these wages to save enough in two or three years to buy himself
a gondola. A boy from fifteen to nineteen is called a mezz'uomo, and gets about one franc a
day. A new gondola with all its fittings is worth about a thousand francs. It does not last
in good condition more than six or seven years. At the end of that time the hull will fetch
eighty francs. A new hull can be had for three hundred francs. The old fittings--brass sea-horses
or cavalli, steel prow or ferro, covered cabin or felze, cushions and leather-covered back-board
or stramazetto, may be transferred to it. When a man wants to start a gondola, he will begin
by buying one already half past service--a gondola da traghetto or di mezza età. This should
cost him something over two hundred francs. Little by little, he accumulates the needful fittings;
and when his first purchase is worn out, he hopes to set up with a well-appointed equipage.
He thus gradually works his way from the rough trade which involves hard work and poor earnings
to that more profitable industry which cannot be carried on without a smart boat. The gondola
is a source of continual expense for repairs. Its oars have to be replaced. It has to be washed
with sponges, blacked, and varnished. Its bottom needs frequent cleaning. Weeds adhere to it
in the warm brackish water, growing rapidly through the summer months, and demanding to be
scrubbed off once in every four weeks. The gondolier has no place where he can do this for
himself. He therefore takes his boat to a wharf, or squero, as the place is called. At these
squeri gondolas are built as well as cleaned. The fee for a thorough setting to rights of the
boat is five francs. It must be done upon a fine day. Thus in addition to the cost, the owner
loses a good day's work.

These details will serve to give some notion of the sort of people with whom Eustace and I
spent our day. The bride's house is in an excellent position on an open canal leading from
the Canalozzo to the Giudecca. She had arrived before us, and received her friends in the middle
of the room. Each of us in turn kissed her cheek and murmured our congratulations. We found
the large living-room of the house arranged with chairs all round the walls, and the company
were marshalled in some order of precedence, my friend and I taking place near the bride. On
either hand airy bed-rooms opened out, and two large doors, wide open, gave a view from where
we sat of a good-sized kitchen. This arrangement of the house was not only comfortable, but
pretty; for the bright copper pans and pipkins ranged on shelves along the kitchen walls had
a very cheerful effect. The walls were whitewashed, but literally covered with all sorts of
pictures. A great plaster cast from some antique, an Atys, Adonis, or Paris, looked down from
a bracket placed between the windows. There was enough furniture, solid and well kept, in all
the rooms. Among the pictures were full-length portraits in oils of two celebrated gondoliers--one
in antique costume, the other painted a few years since. The original of the latter soon came
and stood before it. He had won regatta prizes; and the flags of four discordant colours were
painted round him by the artist, who had evidently cared more to commemorate the triumphs of
his sitter and to strike a likeness than to secure the tone of his own picture. This champion
turned out a fine fellow--Corradini--with one of the brightest little gondoliers of thirteen
for his son.

After the company were seated, lemonade and cakes were handed round amid a hubbub of chattering
women. Then followed cups of black coffee and more cakes. Then a glass of Cyprus and more cakes.
Then a glass of curaçoa and more cakes. Finally, a glass of noyau and still more cakes. It
was only a little after seven in the morning. Yet politeness compelled us to consume these
delicacies. I tried to shirk my duty; but this discretion was taken by my hosts for well-bred
modesty; and instead of being let off, I had the richest piece of pastry and the largest macaroon
available pressed so kindly on me, that, had they been poisoned, I would not have refused to
eat them. The conversation grew more and more animated, the women gathering together in their
dresses of bright blue and scarlet, the men lighting cigars and puffing out a few quiet words.
It struck me as a drawback that these picturesque people had put on Sunday-clothes to look
as much like shop-keepers as possible. But they did not all of them succeed. Two handsome women,
who handed the cups round--one a brunette, the other a blonde--wore skirts of brilliant blue,
with a sort of white jacket, and white kerchief folded heavily about their shoulders. The brunette
had a great string of coral, the blonde of amber, round her throat. Gold earrings and the long
gold chains Venetian women wear, of all patterns and degrees of value, abounded. Nobody appeared
without them; but I could not see any of an antique make. The men seemed to be contented with
rings--huge, heavy rings of solid gold, worked with a rough flower pattern. One young fellow
had three upon his fingers. This circumstance led me to speculate whether a certain portion
at least of this display of jewellery around me had not been borrowed for the occasion.

Eustace and I were treated quite like friends. They called us I Signori. But this was only,
I think, because our English names are quite unmanageable. The women fluttered about us and
kept asking whether we really liked it all? whether we should come to the pranzo? whether it
was true we danced? It seemed to give them unaffected pleasure to be kind to us; and when we
rose to go away, the whole company crowded round, shaking hands and saying: "Si divertirà bene
stasera!" Nobody resented our presence; what was better, no one put himself out for us. "Vogliono
veder il nostro costume," I heard one woman say.

We got home soon after eight, and, as our ancestors would have said, settled our stomachs with
a dish of tea. It makes me shudder now to think of the mixed liquids and miscellaneous cakes
we had consumed at that unwonted hour.

At half-past three, Eustace and I again prepared ourselves for action. His gondola was in attendance,
covered with the felze, to take us to the house of the sposa. We found the canal crowded with
poor people of the quarter--men, women, and children lining the walls along its side, and clustering
like bees upon the bridges. The water itself was almost choked with gondolas. Evidently the
folk of San Vio thought our wedding procession would be a most exciting pageant. We entered
the house, and were again greeted by the bride and bridegroom, who consigned each of us to
the control of a fair tyrant. This is the most fitting way of describing our introduction to
our partners of the evening; for we were no sooner presented, than the ladies swooped upon
us like their prey, placing their shawls upon our left arms, while they seized and clung to
what was left available of us for locomotion. There was considerable giggling and tittering
throughout the company when Signora Fenzo, the young and comely wife of a gondolier, thus took
possession of Eustace, and Signora dell'Acqua, the widow of another gondolier, appropriated
me. The affair had been arranged beforehand, and their friends had probably chaffed them with
the difficulty of managing two mad Englishmen. However, they proved equal to the occasion,
and the difficulties were entirely on our side. Signora Fenzo was a handsome brunette, quiet
in her manners, who meant business. I envied Eustace his subjection to such a reasonable being.
Signora dell'Acqua, though a widow, was by no means disconsolate; and I soon perceived that
it would require all the address and diplomacy I possessed, to make anything out of her society.
She laughed incessantly; darted in the most diverse directions, dragging me along with her;
exhibited me in triumph to her cronies; made eyes at me over a fan; repeated my clumsiest remarks,
as though they gave her indescribable amusement; and all the while jabbered Venetian at express
rate, without the slightest regard for my incapacity to follow her vagaries. The Vecchio marshalled
us in order. First went the sposa and comare with the mothers of bride and bridegroom. Then
followed the sposo and the bridesmaid. After them I was made to lead my fair tormentor. As
we descended the staircase there arose a hubbub of excitement from the crowd on the canals.
The gondolas moved turbidly upon the face of the waters. The bridegroom kept muttering to himself,
"How we shall be criticised! They will tell each other who was decently dressed, and who stepped
awkwardly into the boats, and what the price of my boots was!" Such exclamations, murmured
at intervals, and followed by chest-drawn sighs, expressed a deep preoccupation. With regard
to his boots, he need have had no anxiety. They were of the shiniest patent leather, much too
tight, and without a speck of dust upon them. But his nervousness infected me with a cruel
dread. All those eyes were going to watch how we comported ourselves in jumping from the landing-steps
into the boat! If this operation, upon a ceremonious occasion, has terrors even for a gondolier,
how formidable it ought to be to me! And here is the Signora dell'Acqua's white cachemire shawl
dangling on one arm, and the Signora herself languishingly clinging to the other; and the gondolas
are fretting in a fury of excitement, like corks, upon the churned green water! The moment
was terrible. The sposa and her three companions had been safely stowed away beneath their
felze. The sposo had successfully handed the bridesmaid into the second gondola. I had to perform
the same office for my partner. Off she went, like a bird, from the bank. I seized a happy
moment, followed, bowed, and found myself to my contentment gracefully ensconced in a corner
opposite the widow. Seven more gondolas were packed. The procession moved. We glided down the
little channel, broke away into the Grand Canal, crossed it, and dived into a labyrinth from
which we finally emerged before our destination, the Trattoria di San Gallo. The perils of
the landing were soon over; and, with the rest of the guests, my mercurial companion and I
slowly ascended a long flight of stairs leading to a vast upper chamber. Here we were to dine.

It had been the gallery of some palazzo in old days, was above one hundred feet in length,
fairly broad, with a roof of wooden rafters and large windows opening on a courtyard garden.
I could see the tops of three cypress-trees cutting the grey sky upon a level with us. A long
table occupied the centre of this room. It had been laid for upwards of forty persons, and
we filled it. There was plenty of light from great glass lustres blazing with gas. When the
ladies had arranged their dresses, and the gentlemen had exchanged a few polite remarks, we
all sat down to dinner--I next my inexorable widow, Eustace beside his calm and comely partner.
The first impression was one of disappointment. It looked so like a public dinner of middle-class
people. There was no local character in costume or customs. Men and women sat politely bored,
expectant, trifling with their napkins, yawning, muttering nothings about the weather or their
neighbours. The frozen commonplaceness of the scene was made for me still more oppressive by
Signora dell'Acqua. She was evidently satirical, and could not be happy unless continually
laughing at or with somebody. "What a stick the woman will think me!" I kept saying to myself.
"How shall I ever invent jokes in this strange land? I cannot even flirt with her in Venetian!
And here I have condemned myself--and her too, poor thing--to sit through at least three hours
of mortal dulness!" Yet the widow was by no means unattractive. Dressed in black, she had contrived
by an artful arrangement of lace and jewellery to give an air of lightness to her costume.
She had a pretty little pale face, a minois chiffonné, with slightly turned-up nose, large
laughing brown eyes, a dazzling set of teeth, and a tempestuously frizzled mop of powdered
hair. When I managed to get a side-look at her quietly, without being giggled at or driven
half mad by unintelligible incitements to a jocularity I could not feel, it struck me that,
if we once found a common term of communication we should become good friends. But for the
moment that modus vivendi seemed unattainable. She had not recovered from the first excitement
of her capture of me. She was still showing me off and trying to stir me up. The arrival of
the soup gave me a momentary relief; and soon the serious business of the afternoon began.
I may add that before dinner was over, the Signora dell'Acqua and I were fast friends. I had
discovered the way of making jokes, and she had become intelligible. I found her a very nice,
though flighty, little woman; and I believe she thought me gifted with the faculty of uttering
eccentric epigrams in a grotesque tongue. Some of my remarks were flung about the table, and
had the same success as uncouth Lombard carvings have with connoisseurs in naïvetés of art.
By that time we had come to be compare and comare to each other--the sequel of some clumsy
piece of jocularity.

It was a heavy entertainment, copious in quantity, excellent in quality, plainly but well cooked.
I remarked there was no fish. The widow replied that everybody present ate fish to satiety
at home. They did not join a marriage feast at the San Gallo, and pay their nine francs, for
that! It should be observed that each guest paid for his own entertainment. This appears to
be the custom. Therefore attendance is complimentary, and the married couple are not at ruinous
charges for the banquet. A curious feature in the whole proceeding had its origin in this custom.
I noticed that before each cover lay an empty plate, and that my partner began with the first
course to heap upon it what she had not eaten. She also took large helpings, and kept advising
me to do the same. I said: "No; I only take what I want to eat; if I fill that plate in front
of me as you are doing, it will be great waste." This remark elicited shrieks of laughter from
all who heard it; and when the hubbub had subsided, I perceived an apparently official personage
bearing down upon Eustace, who was in the same perplexity. It was then circumstantially explained
to us that the empty plates were put there in order that we might lay aside what we could not
conveniently eat, and take it home with us. At the end of the dinner the widow (whom I must
now call my comare) had accumulated two whole chickens, half a turkey, and a large assortment
of mixed eatables. I performed my duty and won her regard by placing delicacies at her disposition.

Crudely stated, this proceeding moves disgust. But that is only because one has not thought
the matter out. In the performance there was nothing coarse or nasty. These good folk had made
a contract at so much a head--so many fowls, so many pounds of beef, &c., to be supplied; and
what they had fairly bought, they clearly had a right to. No one, so far as I could notice,
tried to take more than his proper share; except, indeed, Eustace and myself. In our first
eagerness to conform to custom, we both overshot the mark, and grabbed at disproportionate
helpings. The waiters politely observed that we were taking what was meant for two; and as
the courses followed in interminable sequence, we soon acquired the tact of what was due to us.

Meanwhile the room grew warm. The gentlemen threw off their coats--a pleasant liberty of which
I availed myself, and was immediately more at ease. The ladies divested themselves of their
shoes (strange to relate!) and sat in comfort with their stockinged feet upon the scagliola
pavement. I observed that some cavaliers by special permission were allowed to remove their
partners' slippers. This was not my lucky fate. My comare had not advanced to that point of
intimacy. Healths began to be drunk. The conversation took a lively turn; and women went fluttering
round the table, visiting their friends, to sip out of their glass, and ask each other how
they were getting on. It was not long before the stiff veneer of bourgeoisie which bored me
had worn off. The people emerged in their true selves: natural, gentle, sparkling with enjoyment,
playful. Playful is, I think, the best word to describe them. They played with infinite grace
and innocence, like kittens, from the old men of sixty to the little boys of thirteen. Very
little wine was drunk. Each guest had a litre placed before him. Many did not finish theirs;
and for very few was it replenished. When at last the desert arrived, and the bride's comfits
had been handed round, they began to sing. It was very pretty to see a party of three or four
friends gathering round some popular beauty, and paying her compliments in verse--they grouped
behind her chair, she sitting back in it and laughing up to them, and joining in the chorus.
The words, "Brunetta mia simpatica, ti amo sempre più," sung after this fashion to Eustace's
handsome partner, who puffed delicate whiffs from a Russian cigarette, and smiled her thanks,
had a peculiar appropriateness. All the ladies, it may be observed in passing, had by this
time lit their cigarettes. The men were smoking Toscani, Sellas, or Cavours, and the little
boys were dancing round the table breathing smoke from their pert nostrils.

The dinner, in fact, was over. Other relatives of the guests arrived, and then we saw how some
of the reserved dishes were to be bestowed. A side-table was spread at the end of the gallery,
and these late-comers were regaled with plenty by their friends. Meanwhile, the big table at
which we had dined was taken to pieces and removed. The scagliola floor was swept by the waiters.
Musicians came streaming in and took their places. The ladies resumed their shoes. Every one
prepared to dance.

My friend and I were now at liberty to chat with the men. He knew some of them by sight, and
claimed acquaintance with others. There was plenty of talk about different boats, gondolas,
and sandolos and topos, remarks upon the past season, and inquiries as to chances of engagements
in the future. One young fellow told us how he had been drawn for the army, and should be obliged
to give up his trade just when he had begun to make it answer. He had got a new gondola, and
this would have to be hung up during the years of his service. The warehousing of a boat in
these circumstances costs nearly one hundred francs a year, which is a serious tax upon the
pockets of a private in the line. Many questions were put in turn to us, but all of the same
tenor. "Had we really enjoyed the pranzo? Now, really, were we amusing ourselves? And did we
think the custom of the wedding un bel costume?" We could give an unequivocally hearty response
to all these interrogations. The men seemed pleased. Their interest in our enjoyment was unaffected.
It is noticeable how often the word divertimento is heard upon the lips of the Italians. They
have a notion that it is the function in life of the Signori to amuse themselves.

The ball opened, and now we were much besought by the ladies. I had to deny myself with a whole
series of comical excuses. Eustace performed his duty after a stiff English fashion--once with
his pretty partner of the pranzo, and once again with a fat gondolier. The band played waltzes
and polkas, chiefly upon patriotic airs--the Marcia Reale, Garibaldi's Hymn, &c. Men danced
with men, women with women, little boys and girls together. The gallery whirled with a laughing
crowd. There was plenty of excitement and enjoyment--not an unseemly or extravagant word or
gesture. My comare careered about with a light mænadic impetuosity, which made me regret my
inability to accept her pressing invitations. She pursued me into every corner of the room,
but when at last I dropped excuses and told her that my real reason for not dancing was that
it would hurt my health, she waived her claims at once with an Ah, poverino!

Some time after midnight we felt that we had had enough of divertimento. Francesco helped us
to slip out unobserved. With many silent good wishes we left the innocent, playful people who
had been so kind to us. The stars were shining from a watery sky as we passed into the piazza
beneath the Campanile and the pinnacles of S. Mark. The Riva was almost empty, and the little
waves fretted the boats moored to the piazzetta, as a warm moist breeze went fluttering by.
We smoked a last cigar, crossed our traghetto, and were soon sound asleep at the end of a long,
pleasant day. The ball, we heard next morning, finished about four.

Since that evening I have had plenty of opportunities for seeing my friends the gondoliers,
both in their own homes and in my apartment. Several have entertained me at their mid-day meal
of fried fish and amber-coloured polenta. These repasts were always cooked with scrupulous
cleanliness, and served upon a table covered with coarse linen. The polenta is turned out upon
a wooden platter, and cut with a string called lassa. You take a large slice of it on the palm
of the left hand, and break it with the fingers of the right. Wholesome red wine of the Paduan
district and good white bread were never wanting. The rooms in which we met to eat looked out
on narrow lanes or over pergolas of yellowing vines. Their whitewashed walls were hung with
photographs of friends and foreigners, many of them souvenirs from English or American employers.
The men, in broad black hats and lilac skirts, sat round the table, girt with the red waist-wrapper,
or fascia, which marks the ancient faction of the Castellani. The other faction, called Nicolotti,
are distinguished by a black assisa. The quarters of the town are divided unequally and irregularly
into these two parties. What was once a formidable rivalry between two sections of the Venetian
populace, still survives in challenges to trials of strength and skill upon the water. The
women, in their many-coloured kerchiefs, stirred polenta at the smoke-blackened chimney, whose
huge pent-house roof projects two feet or more across the hearth. When they had served the
table they took their seat on low stools, knitted stockings, or drank out of glasses handed
across the shoulder to them by their lords. Some of these women were clearly notable housewives,
and I have no reason to suppose that they do not take their full share of the housework. Boys
and girls came in and out, and got a portion of the dinner to consume where they thought best.
Children went tottering about upon the red-brick floor, the playthings of those hulking fellows,
who handled them very gently and spoke kindly in a sort of confidential whisper to their ears.
These little ears were mostly pierced for earrings, and the light blue eyes of the urchins
peeped maliciously beneath shocks of yellow hair. A dog was often of the party. He ate fish
like his masters, and was made to beg for it by sitting up and rowing with his paws. Voga,
Azzò, voga! The Anzolo who talked thus to his little brown Spitz-dog has the hoarse voice of
a Triton and the movement of an animated sea-wave. Azzò performed his trick, swallowed his
fish-bones, and the fiery Anzolo looked round approvingly.

On all these occasions I have found these gondoliers the same sympathetic, industrious, cheery
affectionate folk. They live in many respects a hard and precarious life. The winter in particular
is a time of anxiety, and sometimes of privation, even to the well-to-do among them. Work then
is scarce, and what there is, is rendered disagreeable to them by the cold. Yet they take their
chance with facile temper, and are not soured by hardships. The amenities of the Venetian sea
and air, the healthiness of the lagoons, the cheerful bustle of the poorer quarters, the brilliancy
of this Southern sunlight, and the beauty which is everywhere apparent, must be reckoned as
important factors in the formation of their character. And of that character, as I have said,
the final note is playfulness. In spite of difficulties, their life has never been stern enough
to sadden them. Bare necessities are marvellously cheap, and the pinch of real bad weather--such
frost as locked the lagoons in ice two years ago, or such south-western gales as flooded the
basement floors of all the houses on the Zattere--is rare and does not last long. On the other
hand, their life has never been so lazy as to reduce them to the savagery of the traditional
Neapolitan lazzaroni. They have had to work daily for small earnings, but under favourable
conditions, and their labour has been lightened by much good-fellowship among themselves, by
the amusements of their feste and their singing clubs.

Of course it is not easy for a stranger in a very different social position to feel that he
has been admitted to their confidence. Italians have an ineradicable habit of making themselves
externally agreeable, of bending in all indifferent matters to the whims and wishes of superiors,
and of saying what they think Signori like. This habit, while it smoothes the surface of existence,
raises up a barrier of compliment and partial insincerity, against which the more downright
natures of us Northern folk break in vain efforts. Our advances are met with an imperceptible
but impermeable resistance by the very people who are bent on making the world pleasant to
us. It is the very reverse of that dour opposition which a Lowland Scot or a North English
peasant offers to familiarity; but it is hardly less insurmountable. The treatment, again,
which Venetians of the lower class have received through centuries from their own nobility,
makes attempts at fraternisation on the part of gentlemen unintelligible to them. The best
way, here and elsewhere, of overcoming these obstacles is to have some bond of work or interest
in common--of service on the one side rendered, and good-will on the other honestly displayed.
The men of whom I have been speaking will, I am convinced, not shirk their share of duty or
make unreasonable claims upon the generosity of their employers.

FORNOVO.

In the town of Parma there is one surpassingly strange relic of the past. The palace of the
Farnesi, like many a haunt of upstart tyranny and beggared pride on these Italian plains, rises
misshapen and disconsolate above the stream that bears the city's name. The squalor of this
gray-brown edifice of formless brick, left naked like the palace of the same Farnesi at Piacenza,
has something even horrid in it now that only vague memory survives of its former uses. The
princely sprezzatura of its ancient occupants, careless of these unfinished courts and unroofed
galleries amid the splendor of their purfled silks and the glitter of their torchlight pageantry,
has yielded to sullen cynicism--the cynicism of arrested ruin and unreverend age. All that
was satisfying to the senses and distracting to the eyesight in their transitory pomp has passed
away, leaving a sinister and naked shell. Remembrance can but summon up the crimes, the madness,
the trivialities of those dead palace-builders. An atmosphere of evil clings to the dilapidated
walls, as though the tainted spirit of the infamous Pier Luigi still possessed the spot, on
which his toadstool brood of princelings sprouted in the mud of their misdeeds. Enclosed in
this huge labyrinth of brickwork is the relic of which I spoke. It is the once world-famous
Teatro Farnese, raised in the year 1618 by Ranunzio Farnese for the marriage of Odoardo Farnese
with Margaret of Austria. Giambattista Aleotti, a native of pageant-loving Ferrara, traced
the stately curves and noble orders of the galleries, designed the columns that support the
raftered roof, marked out the orchestra, arranged the stage, and breathed into the whole the
spirit of Palladio's most heroic neo-Latin style. Vast, built of wood, dishevelled, with broken
statues and blurred coats-of-arms, with its empty scene, its uncurling frescos, its hangings
all in rags, its cobwebs of two centuries, its dust and mildew and discolored gold--this theatre,
a sham in its best days, and now that ugliest of things, a sham unmasked and naked to the light
of day, is yet sublime, because of its proportioned harmony, because of its grand Roman manner.
The sight and feeling of it fasten upon the mind and abide in the memory like a nightmare--like
one of Piranesi's weirdest and most passion-haunted etchings for the Carceri. Idling there
at noon in the twilight of the dust-bedarkened windows, we fill the tiers of those high galleries
with ladies, the space below with grooms and pages; the stage is ablaze with torches, and an
Italian Masque, such as our Marlowe dreamed of, fills the scene. But it is impossible to dower
these fancies with even such life as in healthier, happier ruins phantasy may lend to imagination's
figments. This theatre is like a maniac's skull, empty of all but unrealities and mockeries
of things that are. The ghosts we raise here could never have been living men and women: questi
sciaurati non fur mai vivi. So clinging is the sense of instability that appertains to every
fragment of that dry-rot tyranny which seized by evil fortune in the sunset of her golden day
on Italy.

In this theatre I mused one morning after visiting Fornovo; and the thoughts suggested by the
battlefield found their proper atmosphere in the dilapidated place. What, indeed, is the Teatro
Farnese but a symbol of those hollow principalities which the despot and the stranger built
in Italy after the fatal date of 1494, when national enthusiasm and political energy were expiring
in a blaze of art, and when the Italians as a people had ceased to be; but when the phantom
of their former life, surviving in high works of beauty, was still superb by reason of imperishable
style! How much in Italy of the Renaissance was, like this plank-built, plastered theatre,
a glorious sham! The sham was seen through then; and now it stands unmasked: and yet, strange
to say, so perfect is its form that we respect the sham and yield our spirits to the incantation
of its music.

The battle of Fornovo, as modern battles go, was a paltry affair; and even at the time it seemed
sufficiently without result. Yet the trumpets which rang on July 6th, 1495, for the onset,
sounded the réveille of the modern world; and in the inconclusive termination of the struggle
of that day the Italians were already judged and sentenced as a nation. The armies who met
that morning represented Italy and France--Italy, the Sibyl of Renaissance; France, the Sibyl
of Revolution. At the fall of evening Europe was already looking northward; and the last years
of the fifteenth century were opening an act which closed in blood at Paris on the ending of
the eighteenth.

If it were not for thoughts like these, no one, I suppose, would take the trouble to drive
for two hours out of Parma to the little village of Fornovo--a score of bare gray hovels on
the margin of a pebbly river-bed beneath the Apennines. The fields on either side, as far as
eye can see, are beautiful indeed in May sunlight, painted here with flax, like shallow sheets
of water reflecting a pale sky, and there with clover red as blood. Scarce unfolded leaves
sparkle like flamelets of bright green upon the knotted vines, and the young corn is bending
all one way beneath a western breeze. But not less beautiful than this is the whole broad plain
of Lombardy; nor are the nightingales louder here than in the acacia-trees around Pavia. As
we drive, the fields become less fertile, and the hills encroach upon the level, sending down
their spurs upon that waveless plain like blunt rocks jutting out into a tranquil sea. When
we reach the bed of the Taro, these hills begin to narrow on either hand, and the road rises.
Soon they open out again with gradual curving lines, forming a kind of amphitheatre filled
up from flank to flank with the ghiara, or pebbly bottom, of the Taro. The Taro is not less
wasteful than any other of the brotherhood of streams that pour from Alp or Apennine to swell
the Po. It wanders, an impatient rivulet, through a wilderness of boulders, uncertain of its
aim, shifting its course with the season of the year, unless the jaws of some deep-cloven gully
hold it tight and show how insignificant it is. As we advance, the hills approach again; between
their skirts there is nothing but the river-bed; and now on rising ground above the stream,
at the point of juncture between the Ceno and the Taro, we find Fornovo. Beyond the village
the valley broadens out once more, disclosing Apennines capped with winter snow. To the right
descends the Ceno. To the left foams the Taro, following whose rocky channel we should come
at last to Pontremoli and the Tyrrhenian Sea beside Sarzana. On a May-day of sunshine like
the present, the Taro is a gentle stream. A waggon drawn by two white oxen has just entered
its channel, guided by a contadino with goat-skin leggings, wielding a long goad. The patient
creatures stem the water, which rises to the peasant's thighs and ripples round the creaking
wheels. Swaying to and fro, as the shingles shift upon the river-bed, they make their way across;
and now they have emerged upon the stones; and now we lose them in a flood of sunlight.

It was by this pass that Charles VIII. in 1495 returned from Tuscany, when the army of the
League was drawn up waiting to intercept and crush him in the mouse-trap of Fornovo. No road
remained for Charles and his troops but the rocky bed of the Taro, running as I have described
it between the spurs of steep hills. It is true that the valley of the Baganza leads, from
a little higher up among the mountains, into Lombardy. But this pass runs straight to Parma;
and to follow it would have brought the French upon the walls of a strong city. Charles could
not do otherwise than descend upon the village of Fornovo, and cut his way thence in the teeth
of the Italian army over stream and boulder between the gorges of throttling mountain. The
failure of the Italians to achieve what here upon the ground appears so simple delivered Italy
hand-bound to strangers. Had they but succeeded in arresting Charles and destroying his forces
at Fornovo, it is just possible that then--even then, at the eleventh hour--Italy might have
gained the sense of national coherence, or at least have proved herself capable of holding
by her leagues the foreigner at bay. As it was, the battle of Fornovo, in spite of Venetian
bonfires and Mantuan Madonnas of Victory, made her conscious of incompetence and convicted
her of cowardice. After Fornovo, her sons scarcely dared to hold their heads up in the field
against invaders; and the battles fought upon her soil were duels among aliens for the prize
of Italy.

In order to comprehend the battle of Fornovo in its bearings on Italian history, we must go
back to the year 1492, and understand the conditions of the various states of Italy at that
date. On April 8th in that year, Lorenzo de' Medici, who had succeeded in maintaining a political
equilibrium in the peninsula, expired, and was succeeded by his son Piero, a vain and foolhardy
young man, from whom no guidance could be expected. On July 25th, Innocent VIII. died, and
was succeeded by the very worst pope who has ever occupied St. Peter's chair, Roderigo Borgia,
Alexander VI. It was felt at once that the old order of things had somehow ended, and that
a new era, the destinies of which as yet remained incalculable, was opening for Italy. The
chief Italian powers, hitherto kept in equipoise by the diplomacy of Lorenzo de' Medici, were
these--the Duchy of Milan, the Republic of Venice, the Republic of Florence, the Papacy, and
the Kingdom of Naples. Minor states, such as the republics of Genoa and Siena, the duchies
of Urbino and Ferrara, the marquisate of Mantua, the petty tyrannies of Romagna, and the wealthy
city of Bologna, were sufficiently important to affect the balance of power, and to produce
new combinations. For the present purpose it is, however, enough to consider the five great powers.

After the peace of Constance, which freed the Lombard Communes from imperial interference in
the year 1183, Milan, by her geographical position, rose rapidly to be the first city of North
Italy. Without narrating the changes by which she lost her freedom as a Commune, it is enough
to state that, earliest of all Italian cities, Milan passed into the hands of a single family.
The Visconti managed to convert this flourishing commonwealth, with all its dependencies, into
their private property, ruling it exclusively for their own profit, using its municipal institutions
as the machinery of administration, and employing the taxes which they raised upon its wealth
for purely selfish ends. When the line of the Visconti ended, in the year 1447, their tyranny
was continued by Francesco Sforza, the son of a poor soldier of adventure, who had raised himself
by his military genius, and had married Bianca, the illegitimate daughter of the last Visconti.
On the death of Francesco Sforza, in 1466, he left two sons, Galeazzo Maria and Lodovico, surnamed
Il Moro, both of whom were destined to play a prominent part in history. Galeazzo Maria, dissolute,
vicious, and cruel to the core, was murdered by his injured subjects in the year 1476. His
son, Giovanni Galeazzo, aged eight, would in course of time have succeeded to the duchy, had
it not been for the ambition of his uncle Lodovico. Lodovico contrived to name himself as regent
for his nephew, whom he kept, long after he had come of age, in a kind of honorable prison.
Virtual master in Milan, but without a legal title to the throne, unrecognized in his authority
by the Italian powers, and holding it from day to day by craft and fraud, Lodovico at last
found his situation untenable; and it was this difficulty of a usurper to maintain himself
in his despotism which, as we shall see, brought the French into Italy.

Venice, the neighbor and constant foe of Milan, had become a close oligarchy by a process of
gradual constitutional development, which threw her government into the hands of a few nobles.
She was practically ruled by the hereditary members of the Grand Council. Ever since the year
1453, when Constantinople fell beneath the Turk, the Venetians had been more and more straitened
in their Oriental commerce, and were thrown back upon the policy of territorial aggrandisement
in Italy, from which they had hitherto refrained as alien to the temperament of the republic.
At the end of the fifteenth century Venice, therefore, became an object of envy and terror
to the Italian States. They envied her because she alone was tranquil, wealthy, powerful, and
free. They feared her because they had good reason to suspect her of encroachment; and it was
foreseen that if she got the upper hand in Italy, all Italy would be the property of the families
inscribed upon the Golden Book. It was thus alone that the Italians comprehended government.
The principle of representation being utterly unknown, and the privileged burghers in each
city being regarded as absolute and lawful owners of the city and of everything belonging to
it, the conquest of a town by a republic implied the political extinction of that town and
the disfranchisement of its inhabitants in favor of the conquerors.

Florence at this epoch still called itself a republic; and of all Italian commonwealths it
was by far the most democratic. Its history, unlike that of Venice, had been the history of
continual and brusque changes, resulting in the destruction of the old nobility, in the equalization
of the burghers, and in the formation of a new aristocracy of wealth. From this class of bourgeois
nobles sprang the Medici, who, by careful manipulation of the State machinery, by the creation
of a powerful party devoted to their interests, by flattery of the people, by corruption, by
taxation, and by constant scheming, raised themselves to the first place in the commonwealth,
and became its virtual masters. In the year 1492, Lorenzo de Medici, the most remarkable chief
of this despotic family, died, bequeathing his supremacy in the republic to a son of marked
incompetence.

Since the pontificate of Nicholas V. the See of Rome had entered upon a new period of existence.
The popes no longer dreaded to reside in Rome, but were bent upon making the metropolis of
Christendom both splendid as a seat of art and learning, and also potent as the capital of
a secular kingdom. Though their fiefs in Romagna and the March were still held but loosely,
though their provinces swarmed with petty despots who defied the papal authority, and though
the princely Roman houses of Colonna and Orsini were still strong enough to terrorize the Holy
Father in the Vatican, it was now clear that the Papal See must in the end get the better of
its adversaries, and consolidate itself into a first-rate power. The internal spirit of the
papacy, at this time, corresponded to its external policy. It was thoroughly secularized by
a series of worldly and vicious pontiffs, who had clean forgotten what their title, Vicar of
Christ, implied. They consistently used their religious prestige to enforce their secular authority,
while by their temporal power they caused their religious claims to be respected. Corrupt and
shameless, they indulged themselves in every vice, openly acknowledged their children, and
turned Italy upside down in order to establish favorites and bastards in the principalities
they seized as spoils of war.

The kingdom of Naples differed from any other state of Italy. Subject continually to foreign
rulers since the decay of the Greek Empire, governed in succession by the Normans, the Hohenstauffens,
and the House of Anjou, it had never enjoyed the real independence or the free institutions
of the northern provinces; nor had it been Italianized in the same sense as the rest of the
peninsula. Despotism, which assumed so many forms in Italy, was here neither the tyranny of
a noble house, nor the masked autocracy of a burgher, nor yet the forceful sway of a condottiere.
It had a dynastic character, resembling the monarchy of one of the great European nations,
but modified by the peculiar conditions of Italian state-craft. Owing to this dynastic and
monarchical complexion of the Neapolitan kingdom, semi-feudal customs flourished in the south
far more than in the north of Italy. The barons were more powerful; and the destinies of the
Regno often turned upon their feuds and quarrels with the crown. At the same time the Neapolitan
despots shared the uneasy circumstances of all Italian potentates, owing to the uncertainty
of their tenure, both as conquerors and aliens, and also as the nominal vassals of the Holy
See. The rights of suzerainty which the Normans had yielded to the papacy over their Southern
conquests, and which the popes had arbitrarily exercised in favor of the Angevine princes,
proved a constant source of peril to the rest of Italy by rendering the succession to the crown
of Naples doubtful. On the extinction of the Angevine line, however, the throne was occupied
by a prince who had no valid title but that of the sword to its possession. Alfonso of Aragon
conquered Naples in 1442, and neglecting his hereditary dominion, settled in his Italian capital.
Possessed with the enthusiasm for literature which was then the ruling passion of the Italians,
and very liberal to men of learning, Alfonso won for himself the surname of Magnanimous. On
his death, in 1458, he bequeathed his Spanish kingdom, together with Sicily and Sardinia, to
his brother, and left the fruits of his Italian conquest to his bastard, Ferdinand. This Ferdinand,
whose birth was buried in profound obscurity, was the reigning sovereign in the year 1492.
Of a cruel and sombre temperament, traitorous and tyrannical, Ferdinand was hated by his subjects
as much as Alfonso had been loved. He possessed, however, to a remarkable degree, the qualities
which at that epoch constituted a consummate statesman; and though the history of his reign
is the history of plots and conspiracies, of judicial murders and forcible assassinations,
of famines produced by iniquitous taxation, and of every kind of diabolical tyranny, Ferdinand
contrived to hold his own, in the teeth of a rebellious baronage or a maddened population.
His political sagacity amounted almost to a prophetic instinct in the last years of his life,
when he became aware that the old order was breaking up in Italy, and had cause to dread that
Charles VIII. of France would prove his title to the kingdom of Naples by force of arms.[D]

Such were the component parts of the Italian body politic, with the addition of numerous petty
principalities and powers, adhering more or less consistently to one or other of the greater
states. The whole complex machine was bound together by no sense of common interest, animated
by no common purpose, amenable to no central authority. Even such community of feeling as one
spoken language gives was lacking. And yet Italy distinguished herself clearly from the rest
of Europe, not merely as a geographical fact, but also as a people intellectually and spiritually
one. The rapid rise of humanism had aided in producing this national self-consciousness. Every
state and every city was absorbed in the recovery of culture and in the development of art
and literature. Far in advance of the other European nations, the Italians regarded the rest
of the world as barbarous, priding themselves the while, in spite of mutual jealousies and
hatreds, on their Italic civilization. They were enormously wealthy. The resources of the papal
treasury, the private fortunes of the Florentine bankers, the riches of the Venetian merchants
might have purchased all that France or Germany possessed of value. The single duchy of Milan
yielded to its masters seven hundred thousand golden florins of revenue, according to the computation
of De Comines. In default of a confederative system, the several states were held in equilibrium
by diplomacy. By far the most important people, next to the despots and the captains of adventure,
were ambassadors and orators. War itself had become a matter of arrangement, bargain, and diplomacy.
The game of stratagem was played by generals who had been friends yesterday and might be friends
again to-morrow, with troops who felt no loyalty whatever for the standards under which they
listed. To avoid slaughter and to achieve the ends of warfare by parade and demonstration was
the interest of every one concerned. Looking back upon Italy of the fifteenth century, taking
account of her religious deadness and moral corruption, estimating the absence of political
vigor in the republics and the noxious tyranny of the despots, analyzing her lack of national
spirit, and comparing her splendid life of cultivated ease with the want of martial energy,
we can see but too plainly that contact with a simpler and stronger people could not but produce
a terrible catastrophe. The Italians themselves, however, were far from comprehending this.
Centuries of undisturbed internal intrigue had accustomed them to play the game of forfeits
with each other, and nothing warned them that the time was come at which diplomacy, finesse,
and craft would stand them in ill stead against rapacious conquerors.

The storm which began to gather over Italy in the year 1492 had its first beginning in the
North. Lodovico Sforza's position in the Duchy of Milan was becoming every day more difficult,
when a slight and to all appearances insignificant incident converted his apprehension of danger
into panic. It was customary for the states of Italy to congratulate a new pope on his election
by their ambassadors; and this ceremony had now to be performed for Roderigo Borgia. Lodovico
proposed that his envoys should go to Rome together with those of Venice, Naples, and Florence;
but Piero de' Medici, whose vanity made him wish to send an embassy in his own name, contrived
that Lodovico's proposal should be rejected both by Florence and the King of Naples. So strained
was the situation of Italian affairs that Lodovico saw in the repulse a menace to his own usurped
authority. Feeling himself isolated among the princes of his country, rebuffed by the Medici,
and coldly treated by the King of Naples, he turned in his anxiety to France, and advised the
young king, Charles VIII., to make good his claim upon the Regno. It was a bold move to bring
the foreigner thus into Italy; and even Lodovico, who prided himself upon his sagacity, could
not see how things would end. He thought his situation so hazardous, however, that any change
must be for the better. Moreover, a French invasion of Naples would tie the hands of his natural
foe, King Ferdinand, whose grand-daughter, Isabella of Aragon, had married Giovanni Galeazzo
Sforza, and was now the rightful Duchess of Milan. When the Florentine ambassador at Milan
asked him how he had the courage to expose Italy to such peril, his reply betrayed the egotism
of his policy: "You talk to me of Italy; but when have I looked Italy in the face? No one ever
gave a thought to my affairs. I have, therefore, had to give them such security as I could."

Charles VIII. was young, light-brained, romantic, and ruled by parvenus who had an interest
in disturbing the old order of the monarchy. He lent a willing ear to Lodovico's invitation,
backed as this was by the eloquence and passion of numerous Italian refugees and exiles. Against
the advice of his more prudent counsellors, he taxed all the resources of his kingdom, and
concluded treaties on disadvantageous terms with England, Germany, and Spain, in order that
he might be able to concentrate all his attention upon the Italian expedition. At the end of
the year 1493, it was known that the invasion was resolved upon. Gentile Becchi, the Florentine
envoy at the Court of France, wrote to Piero de' Medici: "If the king succeeds, it is all over
with Italy--tutta a bordello." The extraordinary selfishness of the several Italian states
at this critical moment deserves to be noticed. The Venetians, as Paolo Antonio Soderini described
them to Piero de' Medici, "are of opinion that to keep quiet, and to see other potentates of
Italy spending and suffering, cannot but be to their advantage. They trust no one, and feel
sure they have enough money to be able at any moment to raise sufficient troops, and so to
guide events according to their inclinations." As the invasion was directed against Naples,
Ferdinand of Aragon displayed the acutest sense of the situation. "Frenchmen," he exclaimed,
in what appears like a prophetic passion when contrasted with the cold indifference of others
no less really menaced, "have never come into Italy without inflicting ruin; and this invasion,
if rightly considered, cannot but bring universal ruin, although it seems to menace us alone."
In his agony Ferdinand applied to Alexander VI. But the Pope looked coldly upon him, because
the King of Naples, with rare perspicacity, had predicted that his elevation to the papacy
would prove disastrous to Christendom. Alexander preferred to ally himself with Venice and
Milan. Upon this Ferdinand wrote as follows: "It seems fated that the popes should leave no
peace in Italy. We are compelled to fight; but the Duke of Bari (i.e., Lodovico Sforza) should
think what may ensue from the tumult he is stirring up. He who raises this wind will not be
able to lay the tempest when he likes. Let him look to the past, and he will see how every
time that our internal quarrels have brought powers from beyond the Alps into Italy, these
have oppressed and lorded over her."

Terribly verified as these words were destined to be--and they were no less prophetic in their
political sagacity than Savonarola's prediction of the Sword and bloody Scourge--it was now
too late to avert the coming ruin. On March 1, 1494, Charles was with his army at Lyons. Early
in September he had crossed the pass of Mont Genêvre and taken up his quarters in the town
of Asti. There is no need to describe in detail the holiday march of the French troops through
Lombardy, Tuscany, and Rome, until, without having struck a blow of consequence, the gates
of Naples opened to receive the conqueror upon February 22, 1495. Philippe de Comines, who
parted from the king at Asti and passed the winter as his envoy at Venice, has more than once
recorded his belief that nothing but the direct interposition of Providence could have brought
so mad an expedition to so successful a conclusion. "Dieu monstroit conduire l'entreprise."
No sooner, however, was Charles installed in Naples than the states of Italy began to combine
against him. Lodovico Sforza had availed himself of the general confusion consequent upon the
first appearance of the French, to poison his nephew. He was, therefore, now the titular, as
well as virtual, Lord of Milan. So far, he had achieved what he desired, and had no further
need of Charles. The overtures he now made to the Venetians and the Pope terminated in a league
between these powers for the expulsion of the French from Italy. Germany and Spain entered
into the same alliance; and De Comines, finding himself treated with marked coldness by the
Signory of Venice, despatched a courier to warn Charles in Naples of the coming danger. After
a stay of only fifty days in his new capital, the French king hurried northward. Moving quickly
through the Papal States and Tuscany, he engaged his troops in the passes of the Apennines
near Pontremoli, and on July 5th, 1495, took up his quarters in the village of Fornovo. De
Comines reckons that his whole fighting force at this time did not exceed nine thousand men,
with fourteen pieces of artillery. Against him at the opening of the valley was the army of
the League, numbering some thirty-five thousand men, of whom three fourths were supplied by
Venice, the rest by Lodovico Sforza and the German emperor. Francesco Gonzaga, Marquis of Mantua,
was the general of the Venetian forces; and on him, therefore, fell the real responsibility
of the battle.

De Comines remarks on the imprudence of the allies, who allowed Charles to advance as far as
Fornovo, when it was their obvious policy to have established themselves in the village and
so have caught the French troops in a trap. It was a Sunday when the French marched down upon
Fornovo. Before them spread the plain of Lombardy, and beyond it the white crests of the Alps.
"We were," says De Comines, "in a valley between two little mountain flanks, and in that valley
ran a river which could easily be forded on foot, except when it is swelled with sudden rains.
The whole valley was a bed of gravel and big stones, very difficult for horses, about a quarter
of a league in breadth, and on the right bank lodged our enemies." Any one who has visited
Fornovo can understand the situation of the two armies. Charles occupied the village on the
right bank of the Taro. On the same bank, extending downward towards the plain, lay the host
of the allies; and in order that Charles should escape them, it was necessary that he should
cross the Taro, just below its junction with the Ceno, and reach Lombardy by marching in a
parallel line with his foes.

All through the night of Sunday it thundered and rained incessantly; so that on the Monday
morning the Taro was considerably swollen. At seven o'clock the king sent for De Comines, who
found him already armed and mounted on the finest horse he had ever seen. The name of this
charger was Savoy. He was black, one-eyed, and of middling height; and to his great courage,
as we shall see, Charles owed life upon that day. The French army, ready for the march, now
took to the gravelly bed of the Taro, passing the river at a distance of about a quarter of
a league from the allies. As the French left Fornovo, the light cavalry of their enemies entered
the village and began to attack the baggage. At the same time the Marquis of Mantua, with the
flower of his men-at-arms, crossed the Taro and harassed the rear of the French host; while
raids from the right bank to the left were constantly being made by sharp-shooters and flying
squadrons. "At this moment," says De Comines, "not a single man of us could have escaped if
our ranks had once been broken." The French army was divided into three main bodies. The vanguard
consisted of some three hundred and fifty men-at-arms, three thousand Switzers, three hundred
archers of the Guard, a few mounted crossbow-men, and the artillery. Next came the Battle,
and after this the rear-guard. At the time when the Marquis of Mantua made his attack, the
French rear-guard had not yet crossed the river. Charles quitted the van, put himself at the
head of his chivalry, and charged the Italian horsemen, driving them back, some to the village
and others to their camp. De Comines observes, that had the Italian knights been supported
in this passage of arms by the light cavalry of the Venetian force, called Stradiots, the French
must have been outnumbered, thrown into confusion, and defeated. As it was, these Stradiots
were engaged in plundering the baggage of the French; and the Italians, accustomed to bloodless
encounters, did not venture, in spite of their immense superiority of numbers, to renew the
charge. In the pursuit of Gonzaga's horsemen Charles outstripped his staff, and was left almost
alone to grapple with a little band of mounted foemen. It was here that his noble horse, Savoy,
saved his person by plunging and charging till assistance came up from the French, and enabled
the king to regain his van.

It is incredible, considering the nature of the ground and the number of the troops engaged,
that the allies should not have returned to the attack and have made the passage of the French
into the plain impossible. De Comines, however, assures us that the actual engagement only
lasted a quarter of an hour, and the pursuit of the Italians three quarters of an hour. After
they had once resolved to fly, they threw away their lances and betook themselves to Reggio
and Parma. So complete was their discomfiture, that De Comines gravely blames the want of military
genius and adventure in the French host. If, instead of advancing along the left bank of the
Taro and there taking up his quarters for the night, Charles had recrossed the stream and pursued
the army of the allies, he would have had the whole of Lombardy at his discretion. As it was,
the French army encamped not far from the scene of the action in great discomfort and anxiety.
De Comines had to bivouac in a vineyard, without even a mantle to wrap round him, having lent
his cloak to the king in the morning; and as it had been pouring all day, the ground could
not have afforded very luxurious quarters. The same extraordinary luck which had attended the
French in their whole expedition now favored their retreat; and the same pusillanimity which
the allies had shown at Fornovo prevented them from re-forming and engaging with the army of
Charles upon the plain. One hour before daybreak on Tuesday morning the French broke up their
camp and succeeded in clearing the valley. That night they lodged at Fiorenzuola, the next
at Piacenza, and so on; till on the eighth day they arrived at Asti without having been so
much as incommoded by the army of the allies in their rear.

Although the field of Fornovo was in reality so disgraceful to the Italians, they reckoned
it a victory upon the technical pretence that the camp and baggage of the French had been seized.
Illuminations and rejoicings made the piazza of St. Mark in Venice gay, and Francesco da Gonzaga
had the glorious Madonna della Vittoria painted for him by Mantegna, in commemoration of what
ought only to have been remembered with shame.

A fitting conclusion to this sketch, connecting its close with the commencement, may be found
in some remarks upon the manner of warfare to which the Italians of the Renaissance had become
accustomed, and which proved so futile on the field of Fornovo. During the Middle Ages, and
in the days of the Communes, the whole male population of Italy had fought light armed on foot.
Merchant and artisan left the counting-house and the workshop, took shield and pike, and sallied
forth to attack the barons in their castles, or to meet the emperor's troops upon the field.
It was with this national militia that the citizens of Florence freed their Contado of the
nobles, and the burghers of Lombardy gained the battle of Legnano. In course of time, by a
process of change which it is not very easy to trace, heavily armed cavalry began to take the
place of infantry in mediæval warfare. Men-at-arms, as they were called, encased from head
to foot in iron, and mounted upon chargers no less solidly caparisoned, drove the foot-soldiers
before them at the points of their long lances. Nowhere in Italy do they seem to have met with
the fierce resistance which the bears of the Swiss Oberland and the bulls of Uri offered to
the knights of Burgundy. No Tuscan Arnold von Winkelried clasped a dozen lances to his bosom
that the foeman's ranks might thus be broken at the cost of his own life; nor did it occur
to the Italian burghers to meet the charge of the horsemen with squares protected by bristling
spears. They seem, on the contrary, to have abandoned military service with the readiness of
men whose energies were already absorbed in the affairs of peace. To become a practised and
efficient man-at-arms required long training and a life's devotion. So much time the burghers
of the free towns could not spare to military service, while the petty nobles were only too
glad to devote themselves to so honorable a calling. Thus it came to pass that a class of professional
fighting-men was gradually formed in Italy, whose services the burghers and the princes bought,
and by whom the wars of the peninsula were regularly farmed by contract. Wealth and luxury
in the great cities continued to increase; and as the burghers grew more comfortable, they
were less inclined to take the field in their own persons, and more disposed to vote large
sums of money for the purchase of necessary aid. At the same time this system suited the despots,
since it spared them the peril of arming their own subjects, while they taxed them to pay the
services of foreign captains. War thus became a commerce. Romagna, the Marches of Ancona, and
other parts of the papal dominions supplied a number of petty nobles whose whole business in
life it was to form companies of trained horsemen, and with these bands to hire themselves
out to the republics and the despots. Gain was the sole purpose of these captains. They sold
their service to the highest bidder, fighting irrespectively of principle or patriotism, and
passing with the coldest equanimity from the camp of one master to that of his worst foe. It
was impossible that true military spirit should survive this prostitution of the art of war.
A species of mock warfare prevailed in Italy. Battles were fought with a view to booty more
than victory; prisoners were taken for the sake of ransom, bloodshed was carefully avoided,
for the men who fought on either side in any pitched field had been comrades with their present
foemen in the last encounter, and who could tell how soon the general of the one host might
not need his rival's troops to recruit his own ranks? Like every genuine institution of the
Italian Renaissance, warfare was thus a work of fine art, a masterpiece of intellectual subtlety;
and, like the Renaissance itself, this peculiar form of warfare was essentially transitional.
The cannon and the musket were already in use; and it only required one blast of gunpowder
to turn the shamfight of courtly, traitorous, finessing captains of adventure into something
terribly more real. To men like the Marquis of Mantua war had been a highly profitable game
of skill; to men like the Maréchal de Gié it was a murderous horse-play; and this difference
the Italians were not slow to perceive. When they cast away their lances at Fornovo, and fled--in
spite of their superior numbers--never to return, one fair-seeming sham of the fifteenth century
became a vision of the past.

FOOTNOTES:

[D] Charles claimed under the will of René of Anjou, who in turn claimed under the will of Joan II.

BERGAMO AND BARTOLOMMEO COLLEONI.

From the new town of commerce to the old town of history upon the hill the road is carried
along a rampart lined with horse-chestnut trees--clumps of massy foliage and snowy pyramids
of bloom expanded in the rapture of a Southern spring. Each pair of trees between their stems
and arch of intermingling leaves includes a space of plain checkered with cloud-shadows, melting
blue and green in amethystine haze. To right and left the last spurs of the Alps descend, jutting
like promontories, heaving like islands from the misty breadth below; and here and there are
towers half lost in airy azure, and cities dwarfed to blots, and silvery lines where rivers
flow, and distant, vapor-drowned, dim crests of Apennines. The city walls above us wave with
snapdragons and iris among fig-trees sprouting from the riven stones. There are terraces over-rioted
with pergolas of vine, and houses shooting forward into balconies and balustrades, from which
a Romeo might launch himself at daybreak, warned by the lark's song. A sudden angle in the
road is turned, and we pass from air-space and freedom into the old town, beneath walls of
dark-brown masonry, where wild valerians light their torches of red bloom in immemorial shade.
Squalor and splendor live here side by side. Grand Renaissance portals grinning with satyr
masks are flanked by tawdry frescos shamming stonework, or by doorways where the withered bush
hangs out a promise of bad wine.

The Cappella Colleoni is our destination--that masterpiece of the sculptor-architect's craft,
with its variegated marbles--rosy and white and creamy yellow and jet-black--in patterns, bass-reliefs,
pilasters, statuettes, incrusted on the fanciful domed shrine. Upon the façade are mingled,
in the true Renaissance spirit of genial acceptance, motives Christian and Pagan with supreme
impartiality. Medallions of emperors and gods alternate with virtues, angels, and cupids in
a maze of loveliest arabesque; and round the base of the building are told two stories--the
one of Adam from his creation to his fall, the other of Hercules and his labors. Italian craftsmen
of the quattrocento were not averse to setting thus together, in one frame-work, the myths
of our first parents and Alemena's son; partly, perhaps, because both subjects gave scope to
the free treatment of the nude; but partly, also, we may venture to surmise, because the heroism
of Hellas counterbalanced the sin of Eden. Here, then, we see how Adam and Eve were made and
tempted and expelled from Paradise and set to labor, how Cain killed Abel, and Lamech slew
a man to his hurt, and Isaac was offered on the mountain. The tale of human sin and the promise
of redemption are epitomized in twelve of the sixteen bass-reliefs. The remaining four show
Hercules wrestling with Antæus, taming the Nemean lion, extirpating the Hydra, and bending
to his will the bull of Crete. Labor, appointed for a punishment to Adam, becomes a title to
immortality for the hero. The dignity of man is reconquered by prowess for the Greek, as it
is repurchased for the Christian by vicarious suffering. Many may think this interpretation
of Amadeo's bass-reliefs far-fetched; yet, such as it is, it agrees with the spirit of humanism,
bent ever on harmonizing the two great traditions of the past. Of the workmanship little need
be said, except that it is wholly Lombard, distinguished from the similar work of Della Quercia
at Bologna and Siena by a more imperfect feeling for composition and a lack of monumental gravity,
yet graceful, rich in motives, and instinct with a certain wayward improvisatore charm.

This chapel was built by the great Condottiere Bartolommeo Colleoni, to be the monument of
his puissance even in the grave. It had been the Sacristy of S. Maria Maggiore, which, when
the Consiglio della Misericordia refused it to him for his half-proud, half-pious purpose,
he took and held by force. The structure, of costliest materials, reared by Gian Antonio Amadeo,
cost him fifty thousand golden florins. An equestrian statue of gilt wood, voted to him by
the town of Bergamo, surmounts his monument inside the chapel. This was the work of two German
masters called Sisto figlio di Enrico Syri da Norimberga and Leonardo Tedesco. The tomb itself
is of marble, executed for the most part in a Lombard style resembling Amadeo's, but scarcely
worthy of his genius. The whole effect is disappointing. Five figures representing Mars, Hercules,
and three sons-in-law of Colleoni, who surround the sarcophagus of the buried general, are,
indeed, almost grotesque. The angularity and crumpled draperies of the Milanese manner, when
so exaggerated, produce an impression of caricature. Yet many subordinate details--a row of
putti in a Cinque Cento frieze, for instance--and much of the low relief work, especially the
Crucifixion, with its characteristic episodes of the fainting Marys and the soldiers casting
dice, are lovely in their unaffected Lombardism.

There is another portrait of Colleoni in a round above the great door, executed with spirit,
though in a bravura style that curiously anticipates the decline of Italian sculpture. Gaunt,
hollow-eyed, with prominent cheekbones and strong jaws, this animated half-length statue of
the hero bears the stamp of a good likeness, but when or by whom it was made I do not know.

Far more noteworthy than Colleoni's own monument is that of his daughter Medea. She died young
in 1470, and her father caused her tomb, carved of Carrara marble, to be placed in the Dominican
Church of Basella, which he had previously founded. It was not until 1842 that this most precious
masterpiece of Antonio Amadeo's skill was transferred to Bergamo. Hic jacet Medea virgo. Her
hands are clasped across her breast. A robe of rich brocade, gathered to the waist and girdled,
lies in simple folds upon the bier. Her throat, exceedingly long and slender, is circled with
a string of pearls. Her face is not beautiful, for the features, especially the nose, are large
and prominent; but it is pure and expressive of vivid individuality. The hair curls in crisp,
short clusters; and the ear, fine and shaped almost like a Faun's, reveals the scrupulous fidelity
of the sculptor. Italian art has, in truth, nothing more exquisite than this still-sleeping
figure of the girl who, when she lived, must certainly have been so rare of type and lovable
in personality. If Busti's Lancinus Curtius be the portrait of a humanist, careworn with study,
burdened by the laurel leaves that were so dry and dusty; if Gaston de Foix in the Brera, smiling
at death and beautiful in the cropped bloom of youth, idealize the hero of romance; if Michael
Angelo's Penseroso translate in marble the dark broodings of a despot's soul; if Della Porta's
Julia Farnese be the Roman courtesan magnificently throned in nonchalance at a pope's footstool;
if Verocchio's Colleoni on his horse at Venice impersonate the pomp and circumstance of scientific
war--surely this Medea exhales the flower-like graces, the sweet sanctities of human life,
that even in that turbid age were found among high-bred Italian ladies. Such power have mighty
sculptors, even in our modern world, to make the mute stone speak in poems and clasp the soul's
life of a century in some five or six transcendent forms.

The Colleoni, or Coglioni, family were of considerable antiquity and well authenticated nobility
in the town of Bergamo. Two lions' heads conjoined formed one of their canting ensigns; another
was borrowed from the vulgar meaning of their name. Many members of the house held important
office during the three centuries preceding the birth of the famous general Bartolommeo. He
was born in the year 1400 at Solza in the Bergamasque Contado. His father, Paolo, or Pùho as
he was commonly called, was poor and exiled from the city, together with the rest of the Guelf
nobles, by the Visconti. Being a man of daring spirit, and little inclined to languish in a
foreign state as the dependent on some patron, Pùho formed the bold design of seizing the Castle
of Trezzo. This he achieved in 1405 by fraud, and afterwards held it as his own by force. Partly
with the view of establishing himself more firmly in his acquired lordship, and partly out
of family affection, Pùho associated four of his first-cousins in the government of Trezzo.
They repaid his kindness with an act of treason and cruelty only too characteristic of those
times in Italy. One day while he was playing at draughts in a room of the castle, they assaulted
him and killed him, seized his wife and the boy Bartolommeo, and flung them into prison. The
murdered Pùho had another son, Antonio, who escaped and took refuge with Giorgio Benzone, the
tyrant of Crema. After a short time the Colleoni brothers found means to assassinate him also;
therefore Bartolommeo alone, a child of whom no heed was taken, remained to be his father's
avenger. He and his mother lived together in great indigence at Solza, until the lad felt strong
enough to enter the service of one of the numerous petty Lombard princes, and to make himself
if possible a captain of adventure. His name alone was a sufficient introduction, and the Duchy
of Milan, dismembered upon the death of Gian Maria Visconti, was in such a state that all the
minor despots were increasing their forces and preparing to defend by arms the fragments they
had seized from the Visconti heritage. Bartolommeo therefore had no difficulty in recommending
himself to Filippo d'Arcello, sometime general in the pay of the Milanese, but now the new
lord of Piacenza. With this master he remained as page for two or three years, learning the
use of arms, riding, and training himself in the physical exercises which were indispensable
to a young Italian soldier. Meanwhile Filippo Maria Visconti reacquired his hereditary dominions;
and at the age of twenty, Bartolommeo found it prudent to seek a patron stronger than D'Arcello.
The two great Condottieri, Sforza Attendolo and Braccio, divided the military glories of Italy
at this period; and any youth who sought to rise in his profession had to enroll himself under
the banners of the one or the other. Bartolommeo chose Braccio for his master, and was enrolled
among his men as a simple trooper, or ragazzo, with no better prospects than he could make
for himself by the help of his talents and his borrowed horse and armor. Braccio at this time
was in Apulia, prosecuting the war of the Neapolitan Succession disputed between Alfonso of
Aragon and Louis of Anjou under the weak sovereignty of Queen Joan. On which side of a quarrel
a condottiere fought mattered but little, so great was the confusion of Italian politics, and
so complete was the egotism of these fraudful, violent, and treacherous party leaders. Yet
it may be mentioned that Braccio had espoused Alfonso's cause. Bartolommeo Colleoni early distinguished
himself among the ranks of the Bracceschi. But he soon perceived that he could better his position
by deserting to another camp. Accordingly he offered his services to Jacopo Caldora, one of
Joan's generals, and received from him a commission of twenty men-at-arms. It may here be parenthetically
said that the rank and pay of an Italian captain varied with the number of the men he brought
into the field. His title "Condottiere" was derived from the circumstance that he was said
to have received a Condotta di venti cavalli, and so forth. Each cavallo was equal to one mounted
man-at-arms and two attendants, who were also called ragazzi. It was his business to provide
the stipulated number of men, to keep them in good discipline, and to satisfy their just demands.
Therefore an Italian army at this epoch consisted of numerous small armies varying in size,
each held together by personal engagements to a captain, and all dependent on the will of a
general-in-chief, who had made a bargain with some prince or republic for supplying a fixed
contingent of fighting-men. The condottiere was in other words a contractor or impresario,
undertaking to do a certain piece of work for a certain price, and to furnish the requisite
forces for the business in good working order. It will be readily seen upon this system how
important were the personal qualities of the captain, and what great advantages those condottieri
had who, like the petty princes of Romagna and the March, the Montefeltri, Ordelaffi, Malatesti,
Manfredi, Orsini, and Vitelli, could rely upon a race of hardy vassals for their recruits.

It is not necessary to follow Colleoni's fortunes in the Regno, at Aquila, Ancona, and Bologna.
He continued in the service of Caldora, who was now General of the Church, and had his condotta
gradually increased. Meanwhile his cousins, the murderers of his father, began to dread his
rising power, and determined, if possible, to ruin him. He was not a man to be easily assassinated;
so they sent a hired ruffian to Caldora's camp to say that Bartolommeo had taken his name by
fraud, and that he was himself the real son of Pùho Colleoni. Bartolommeo defied the liar to
a duel; and this would have taken place before the army, had not two witnesses appeared who
knew the fathers of both Colleoni and the bravo, and who gave such evidence that the captains
of the army were enabled to ascertain the truth. The impostor was stripped and drummed out
of the camp.

At the conclusion of a peace between the Pope and the Bolognese, Bartolommeo found himself
without occupation. He now offered himself to the Venetians, and began to fight again under
the great Carmagnola against Filippo Visconti. His engagement allowed him forty men, which,
after the judicial murder of Carmagnola at Venice in 1432, were increased to eighty. Erasmo
da Narni, better known as Gattamelata, was now his general-in-chief--a man who had risen from
the lowest fortunes to one of the most splendid military positions in Italy. Colleoni spent
the next years of his life, until 1443, in Lombardy, manoeuvring against Il Piccinino, and
gradually rising in the Venetian service, until his condotta reached the number of eight hundred
men. Upon Gattamelata's death at Padua in 1440, Colleoni became the most important of the generals
who had fought with Caldora in the March. The lordships of Romano in the Bergamasque, and of
Covo and Antegnate in the Cremonese, had been assigned to him; and he was in a position to
make independent engagements with princes. What distinguished him as a general was a combination
of caution with audacity. He united the brilliant system of his master Braccio with the more
prudent tactics of the Sforzeschi; and thus, though he often surprised his foes by daring stratagems
and vigorous assaults, he rarely met with any serious check. He was a captain who could be
relied upon for boldly seizing an advantage, no less than for using a success with discretion.
Moreover he had acquired an almost unique reputation for honesty in dealing with his masters,
and for justice combined with humane indulgence to his men. His company was popular, and he
could always bring capital troops into the field.

In the year 1443, Colleoni quitted the Venetian service on account of a quarrel with Gherardo
Dandolo, the Proveditore of the Republic. He now took a commission from Filippo Maria Visconti,
who received him at Milan with great honor, bestowed on him the Castello Adorno at Pavia, and
sent him into the March of Ancona upon a military expedition. Of all Italian tyrants, this
Visconti was the most difficult to serve. Constitutionally timid, surrounded with a crowd of
spies and base informers, shrinking from the sight of men in the recesses of his palace, and
controlling the complicated affairs of his duchy by means of correspondents and intelligencers,
this last scion of the Milanese despots lived like a spider in an inscrutable network of suspicion
and intrigue. His policy was one of endless plot and counterplot. He trusted no man; his servants
were paid to act as spies on one another; his body-guard consisted of mutually hostile mercenaries;
his captains in the field were watched and thwarted by commissioners appointed to check them
at the point of successful ambition or magnificent victory. The historian has a hard task when
he tries to fathom the Visconti's schemes, or to understand his motives. Half the duke's time
seems to have been spent in unravelling the webs that he had woven, in undoing his own work,
and weakening the hands of his chosen ministers. Conscious that his power was artificial, that
the least breath might blow him back into the nothingness from which he had arisen on the wrecks
of his father's tyranny, he dreaded the personal eminence of his generals above all things.
His chief object was to establish a system of checks, by means of which no one whom he employed
should at any moment be great enough to threaten him. The most formidable of these military
adventurers, Francesco Sforza, had been secured by marriage with Bianca Maria Visconti, his
master's only daughter, in 1441; but the duke did not even trust his son-in-law. The last six
years of his life were spent in scheming to deprive Sforza of his lordships; and the war in
the March, on which he employed Colleoni, had the object of ruining the principality acquired
by this daring captain from Pope Eugenius IV. in 1443.

Colleoni was by no means deficient in those foxlike qualities which were necessary to save
the lion from the toils spread for him by Italian intriguers. He had already shown that he
knew how to push his own interests, by changing sides and taking service with the highest bidder,
as occasion prompted. Nor, though his character for probity and loyalty stood exceptionally
high among the men of his profession, was he the slave to any questionable claims of honor
or of duty. In that age of confused politics and extinguished patriotism, there was not indeed
much scope for scrupulous honesty. But Filippo Maria Visconti proved more than a match for
him in craft. While Colleoni was engaged in pacifying the revolted population of Bologna, the
duke yielded to the suggestion of his parasites at Milan, who whispered that the general was
becoming dangerously powerful. He recalled him, and threw him without trial into the dungeons
of the Forni at Monza. Here Colleoni remained a prisoner more than a year, until the duke's
death, in 1447, when he made his escape, and profited by the disturbance of the duchy to reacquire
his lordships in the Bergamasque territory. The true motive for his imprisonment remains still
buried in obscure conjecture. Probably it was not even known to the Visconti, who acted on
this, as on so many other occasions, by a mere spasm of suspicious jealousy, for which he could
have given no account.

From the year 1447 to the year 1455, it is difficult to follow Colleoni's movements, or to
trace his policy. First, we find him employed by the Milanese Republic, during its brief space
of independence; then he is engaged by the Venetians, with a commission for fifteen hundred
horse; next, he is in the service of Francesco Sforza; once more in that of the Venetians,
and yet again in that of the Duke of Milan. His biographer relates with pride that, during
this period, he was three times successful against French troops in Piedmont and Lombardy.
It appears that he made short engagements, and changed his paymasters according to convenience.
But all this time he rose in personal importance, acquired fresh lordships in the Bergamasque,
and accumulated wealth. He reached the highest point of his prosperity in 1455, when the Republic
of St. Mark elected him general-in-chief of their armies, with the fullest powers, and with
a stipend of one hundred thousand florins. For nearly twenty-one years, until the day of his
death, in 1475, Colleoni held this honorable and lucrative office. In his will he charged the
Signory of Venice that they should never again commit into the hands of a single captain such
unlimited control over their military resources. It was indeed no slight tribute to Colleoni's
reputation for integrity that the jealous republic, which had signified its sense of Carmagnola's
untrustworthiness by capital punishment, should have left him so long in the undisturbed disposal
of their army. The standard and the baton of St. Mark were conveyed to Colleoni by two ambassadors,
and presented to him at Brescia on June 24, 1455. Three years later he made a triumphal entry
into Venice, and received the same ensigns of military authority from the hands of the new
doge, Pasquale Malipiero. On this occasion his staff consisted of some two hundred officers,
splendidly armed, and followed by a train of serving-men. Noblemen from Bergamo, Brescia, and
other cities of the Venetian territory, swelled the cortége. When they embarked on the lagoons,
they found the water covered with boats and gondolas, bearing the population of Venice in gala
attire to greet the illustrious guest with instruments of music. Three great galleys of the
republic, called bucentaurs, issued from the crowd of smaller craft. On the first was the doge
in his state robes, attended by the government in office, or the Signoria of St. Mark. On the
second were members of the senate and minor magistrates. The third carried the ambassadors
of foreign powers. Colleoni was received into the first state galley, and placed by the side
of the doge. The oarsmen soon cleared the space between the land and Venice, passed the small
canals, and swept majestically up the Canalozzo among the plaudits of the crowds assembled
on both sides to cheer their general. Thus they reached the piazzetta, where Colleoni alighted
between the two great pillars, and, conducted by the doge in person, walked to the Church of
St. Mark. Here, after mass had been said, and a sermon had been preached, kneeling before the
high-altar he received the truncheon from the doge's hands. The words of his commission ran
as follows:

     "By authority and decree of this most excellent city of
     Venice, of us the prince, and of the senate, you are to be
     commander and captain-general of all our forces and armaments
     on terra firma. Take from our hands this truncheon, with
     good augury and fortune, as sign and warrant of your power. Be
     it your care and effort, with dignity and splendor to maintain
     and to defend the majesty, the loyalty, and the principles of
     this empire. Neither provoking, nor yet provoked, unless at
     our command, shall you break into open warfare with our
     enemies. Free jurisdiction and lordship over each one of our
     soldiers, except in cases of treason, we hereby commit to
     you."

After the ceremony of his reception, Colleoni was conducted with no less pomp to his lodgings,
and the next ten days were spent in festivities of all sorts.

The commandership-in-chief of the Venetian forces was perhaps the highest military post in
Italy. It placed Colleoni on the pinnacle of his profession, and made his camp the favorite
school of young soldiers. Among his pupils or lieutenants we read of Ercole d'Este, the future
Duke of Ferrara; Alessandro Sforza, Lord of Pesaro; Boniface, Marquis of Montferrat; Cicco
and Pino Ordelaffi, Princes of Forli; Astorre Manfredi, the Lord of Faenza; three Counts of
Mirandola; two Princes of Carpi; Deifobo, the Count of Anguillara; Giovanni Antonio Caldora,
Lord of Jesi in the March; and many others of less name. Honors came thick upon him. When one
of the many ineffectual leagues against the infidel was formed in 1468, during the pontificate
of Paul II., he was named captain-general for the crusade. Pius II. designed him for the leader
of the expedition he had planned against the impious and savage despot Sigismondo Malatesta.
King René of Anjou, by special patent, authorized him to bear his name and arms, and made him
a member of his family. The Duke of Burgundy, by a similar heraldic fiction, conferred upon
him his name and armorial bearings. This will explain why Colleoni is often styled "di Andegavia
e Borgogna." In the case of René, the honor was but a barren show. But the patent of Charles
the Bold had more significance. In 1473 he entertained the project of employing the great Italian
general against his Swiss foes; nor does it seem reasonable to reject a statement made by Colleoni's
biographer, to the effect that a secret compact had been drawn up between him and the Duke
of Burgundy, for the conquest and partition of the Duchy of Milan. The Venetians, in whose
service Colleoni still remained, when they became aware of this project, met it with peaceful
but irresistible opposition.

Colleoni had been engaged continually since his earliest boyhood in the trade of war. It was
not therefore possible that he should have gained a great degree of literary culture. Yet the
fashion of the times made it necessary that a man in his position should seek the society of
scholars. Accordingly his court and camp were crowded with students, in whose wordy disputations
he is said to have delighted. It will be remembered that his contemporaries, Alfonso the Magnanimous,
Francesco Sforza, Federigo of Urbino, and Sigismondo Pandolfo Malatesta, piqued themselves
at least as much upon their patronage of letters as upon their prowess in the field.

Colleoni's court, like that of Urbino, was a model of manners. As became a soldier, he was
temperate in food and moderate in slumber. It was recorded of him that he had never sat more
than one hour at meat in his own house, and that he never overslept the sunrise. After dinner
he would converse with his friends, using commonly his native dialect of Bergamo, and entertaining
the company now with stories of adventure, and now with pithy sayings. In another essential
point he resembled his illustrious contemporary, the Duke of Urbino; for he was sincerely pious
in an age which, however it preserved the decencies of ceremonial religion, was profoundly
corrupt at heart. His principal lordships in the Bergamasque territory owed to his munificence
their fairest churches and charitable institutions. At Martinengo, for example, he rebuilt
and re-endowed two monasteries, the one dedicated to St. Chiara, the other to St. Francis.
In Bergamo itself he founded an establishment named "La Pietà," for the good purpose of dowering
and marrying poor girls. This house he endowed with a yearly income of three thousand ducats.
The sulphur baths of Trescorio, at some distance from the city, were improved and opened to
poor patients by a hospital which he provided. At Rumano he raised a church to St. Peter, and
erected buildings of public utility, which on his death he bequeathed to the society of the
Misericordia in that town. All the places of his jurisdiction owed to him such benefits as
good water, new walls, and irrigation-works. In addition to these munificent foundations must
be mentioned the Basella, or Monastery of Dominican friars, which he established not far from
Bergamo, upon the river Serio, in memory of his beloved daughter Medea. Last, not least, was
the Chapel of St. John the Baptist, attached to the Church of S. Maria Maggiore, which he endowed
with fitting maintenance for two priests and deacons.

The one defect acknowledged by his biographer was his partiality for women. Early in life he
married Tisbe, of the noble house of the Brescian Martinenghi, who bore him one daughter, Caterina,
wedded to Gasparre Martinengo. Two illegitimate daughters, Ursina and Isotta, were recognized
and treated by him as legitimate. The first he gave in marriage to Gherardo Martinengo, and
the second to Jacopo of the same family. Two other natural children, Doratina and Ricardona,
were mentioned in his will: he left them four thousand ducats apiece for dowry. Medea, the
child of his old age (for she was born to him when he was sixty), died before her father, and
was buried, as we have seen, in the Chapel of Basella.

Throughout his life he was distinguished for great physical strength and agility. When he first
joined the troop of Braccio, he could race, with his corselet on, against the swiftest runner
of the army; and when he was stripped, few horses could beat him in speed. Far on into old
age he was in the habit of taking long walks every morning for the sake of exercise, and delighted
in feats of arms and jousting-matches. "He was tall, straight, and full of flesh, well-proportioned,
and excellently made in all his limbs. His complexion inclined somewhat to brown, but was colored
with sanguine and lively carnation. His eyes were black; in look and sharpness of light they
were vivid, piercing, and terrible. The outlines of his nose and all his countenance expressed
a certain manly nobleness, combined with goodness and prudence." Such is the portrait drawn
of Colleoni by his biographer and it well accords with the famous bronze statue of the general
at Venice.

Colleoni lived with a magnificence that suited his rank. His favorite place of abode was Malpaga,
a castle built by him at the distance of about an hour's drive from Bergamo. The place is worth
a visit, though its courts and gates and galleries have now been turned into a monster farm,
and the southern rooms, where Colleoni entertained his guests, are given over to the silkworms.
Half a dozen families, employed upon a vast estate of the Martinengo family, occupy the still
substantial house and stables. The moat is planted with mulberry-trees; the upper rooms are
used as granaries for golden maize; cows, pigs, and horses litter in the spacious yard. Yet
the walls of the inner court and of the ancient state-rooms are brilliant with frescos, executed
by some good Venetian hand, which represent the chief events of Colleoni's life--his battles,
his reception by the Signory of Venice, his tournaments and hawking-parties, and the great
series of entertainments with which he welcomed Christiern of Denmark. This king had made his
pilgrimage to Rome, and was returning westward, when the fame of Colleoni and his princely
state at Malpaga induced him to turn aside and spend some days as the general's guest. In order
to do him honor, Colleoni left his castle at the king's disposal and established himself with
all his staff and servants in a camp at some distance from Malpaga. The camp was duly furnished
with tents and trenches, stockades, artillery, and all the other furniture of war. On the king's
approach, Colleoni issued with trumpets blowing and banners flying to greet his guest, gratifying
him thus with a spectacle of the pomp and circumstance of war as carried on in Italy. The visit
was further enlivened by sham fights, feats of arms, and trials of strength. When it ended,
Colleoni presented the king with one of his own suits of armor, and gave to each of his servants
a complete livery of red and white, his colors. Among the frescos at Malpaga none are more
interesting, and none, thanks to the silkworms rather than to any other cause, are fortunately
in a better state of preservation, than those which represent this episode in the history of
the castle.

Colleoni died in the year 1475, at the age of seventy-five. Since he left no male representative,
he constituted the Republic of St. Mark his heir in chief, after properly providing for his
daughters and his numerous foundations. The Venetians received under this testament a sum of
one hundred thousand ducats, together with all arrears of pay due to him, and ten thousand
ducats owed him by the Duke of Ferrara. It set forth the testator's intention that this money
should be employed in defence of the Christian faith against the Turk. One condition was attached
to the bequest. The legatees were to erect a statue to Colleoni on the Piazza of St. Mark.
This, however, involved some difficulty; for the proud republic had never accorded a similar
honor, nor did they choose to encumber their splendid square with a monument. They evaded the
condition by assigning the Campo in front of the Scuola di S. Marco, where also stands the
Church of S. Zanipolo, to the purpose. Here accordingly the finest bronze equestrian statue
in Italy, if we except the Marcus Aurelius of the Capitol, was reared upon its marble pedestal
by Andrea Verocchio and Alessandro Leopardi.

Colleoni's liberal expenditure of wealth found its reward in the immortality conferred by art.
While the names of Braccio, his master in the art of war, and of Piccinino, his great adversary,
are familiar to few but professed students, no one who has visited either Bergamo or Venice
can fail to have learned something about the founder of the Chapel of St. John and the original
of Leopardi's bronze. The annals of sculpture assign to Verocchio, of Florence, the principal
share in this statue: but Verocchio died before it was cast; and even granting that he designed
the model, its execution must be attributed to his collaborator, the Venetian Leopardi. For
my own part, I am loath to admit that the chief credit of this masterpiece belongs to a man
whose undisputed work at Florence shows but little of its living spirit and splendor of suggested
motion. That the Tuscan science of Verocchio secured conscientious modelling for man and horse
may be assumed; but I am fain to believe that the concentrated fire which animates them both
is due in no small measure to the handling of his northern fellow-craftsman.

While immersed in the dreary records of crimes, treasons, cruelties, and base ambitions, which
constitute the bulk of fifteenth-century Italian history, it is refreshing to meet with a character
so frank and manly, so simply pious and comparatively free from stain, as Colleoni. The only
general of his day who can bear comparison with him for purity of public life and decency in
conduct was Federigo di Montefeltro. Even here, the comparison redounds to Colleoni's credit;
for he, unlike the Duke of Urbino, rose to eminence by his own exertion in a profession fraught
with peril to men of ambition and energy. Federigo started with a principality sufficient to
satisfy his just desires for power. Nothing but his own sense of right and prudence restrained
Colleoni upon the path which brought Francesco Sforza to a duchy by dishonorable dealings,
and Carmagnola to the scaffold by questionable practice against his masters.

LOMBARD VIGNETTES.

ON THE SUPERGA.

This is the chord of Lombard coloring in May: Lowest in the scale, bright green of varied tints,
the meadow-grasses mingling with willows and acacias, harmonized by air and distance; next,
opaque blue--the blue of something between amethyst and lapis-lazuli--that belongs alone to
the basements of Italian mountains; higher, the roseate whiteness of ridged snow on Alps or
Apennines; highest, the blue of the sky, ascending from pale turquoise to transparent sapphire
filled with light. A mediæval mystic might have likened this chord to the spiritual world.
For the lowest region is that of natural life, of plant and bird and beast, and unregenerate
man. It is the place of faun and nymph and satyr, the plain where wars are fought and cities
built and work is done. Thence we climb to purified humanity, the mountains of purgation, the
solitude and simplicity of contemplative life not yet made perfect by freedom from the flesh.
Higher comes that thin white belt, where are the resting-places of angelic feet, the points
whence purged souls take their flight towards infinity. Above all is heaven, the hierarchies
ascending row on row to reach the light of God.

This fancy occurred to me as I climbed the slope of the Superga, gazing over acacia hedges
and poplars to the mountains bare in morning light. The occasional occurrence of bars across
this chord--poplars shivering in sun and breeze, stationary cypresses as black as night, and
tall campanili with the hot red shafts of glowing brick--adds just enough of composition to
the landscape. Without too much straining of the allegory, the mystic might have recognised
in these aspiring bars the upward effort of souls rooted in the common life of earth.

The panorama, unrolling as we ascend, is enough to overpower a lover of beauty. There is nothing
equal to it for space and breadth and majesty. Monte Rosa, the masses of Mont Blanc blended
with the Grand Paradis, the airy pyramid of Monte Viso, these are the battlements of that vast
Alpine rampart in which the vale of Susa opens like a gate. To west and south sweep the Maritime
Alps and the Apennines. Beneath glides the infant Po; and where he leads our eyes the plain
is only limited by pearly mist.

A BRONZE BUST OF CALIGULA AT TURIN.

The Albertina bronze is one of the most precious portraits of antiquity, not merely because
it confirms the testimony of the green basalt bust in the Capitol, but also because it supplies
an even more emphatic and impressive illustration to the narrative of Suetonius.

Caligula is here represented as young and singularly beautiful. It is indeed an ideal Roman
head, with the powerful square modelling, the crisp short hair, low forehead, and regular firm
features proper to the noblest Roman type. The head is thrown backward from the throat; and
there is a something of menace or defiance or suffering in the suggestion of brusque movement
given to the sinews of the neck. This attitude, together with the tension of the forehead and
the fixed expression of pain and strain communicated by the lines of the mouth--strong muscles
of the upper lip and abruptly chiselled under lip--in relation to the small eyes, deep set
beneath their cavernous and level brows, renders the whole face a monument of spiritual anguish.
I remember that the green basalt bust of the Capitol has the same anxious forehead, the same
troubled and overburdened eyes; but the agony of this fretful mouth, comparable to nothing
but the mouth of Pandolfo Sigismondo Malatesta, and, like that, on the verge of breaking into
the spasms of delirium, is quite peculiar to the Albertina bronze. It is just this which the
portrait of the Capitol lacks for the completion of Caligula. The man who could be so represented
in art had nothing wholly vulgar in him. The brutality of Caracalla, the overblown sensuality
of Nero, the effeminacy of Commodus or Heliogabalus are all absent here. This face idealizes
the torture of a morbid soul. It is withal so truly beautiful that it might easily be made
the poem of high suffering or noble passion. If the bronze were plastic I see how a great sculptor
by but few strokes could convert it into an agonizing Stephen or Sebastian. As it is, the unimaginable
touch of disease, the unrest of madness, made Caligula the genius of insatiable appetite; and
his martyrdom was the torment of lust and ennui and everlasting agitation. The accident of
empire tantalized him with vain hopes of satisfying the Charybdis of his soul's sick cravings.
From point to point he passed of empty pleasure and unsatisfying cruelty, forever hungry; until
the malady of his spirit, unrestrained by any limitations, and with the right medium for its
development, became unique--the tragic type of pathological desire. What more than all things
must have plagued a man with that face was probably the unavoidable meanness of his career.
When we study the chapters of Suetonius we are forced to feel that, though the situation and
the madness of Caligula were dramatically impressive, his crimes were trivial and small. In
spite of the vast scale on which he worked his devilish will, his life presents a total picture
of sordid vice, differing only from pothouse dissipation and school-boy cruelty in point of
size. And this of a truth is the Nemesis of evil. After a time, mere tyrannous caprice must
become commonplace and cloying, tedious to the tyrant and uninteresting to the student of humanity;
nor can I believe that Caligula failed to perceive this to his own infinite disgust.

Suetonius asserts that he was hideously ugly. How are we to square this testimony with the
witness of the bronze before us? What changed the face, so beautiful and terrible in youth,
to ugliness that shrank from sight in manhood? Did the murderers find it blurred in its fine
lineaments, furrowed with lines of care, hollowed with the soul's hunger? Unless a life of
vice and madness had succeeded in making Caligula's face what the faces of some maniacs are--the
bloated ruin of what was once a living witness to the soul within--I could fancy that death
may have sanctified it with even more beauty than this bust of the self-tormented young man
shows. Have we not all seen the anguish of thought-fretted faces smoothed out by the hands
of the Deliverer?

FERRARI AT VERCELLI.

It is possible that many visitors to the Cathedral of Como have carried away the memory of
stately women with abundant yellow hair and draperies of green and crimson in a picture they
connect thereafter with Gaudenzio Ferrari. And when they come to Milan they are probably both
impressed and disappointed by a Martyrdom of St. Catherine in the Brera, bearing the same artist's
name. If they wish to understand this painter they must seek him at Varallo, at Saronno, and
at Vercelli. In the Church of S. Christoforo, in Vercelli, Gaudenzio Ferrari, at the full height
of his powers, showed what he could do to justify Lomazzi's title chosen for him of the eagle.
He has indeed the strong wing and the swiftness of the king of birds. And yet the works of
few really great painters--and among the really great we place Ferrari--leave upon the mind
a more distressing sense of imperfection. Extraordinary fertility of fancy, vehement dramatic
passion, sincere study of nature, and great command of technical resources are here (as elsewhere
in Ferrari's frescos) neutralized by an incurable defect of the combining and harmonizing faculty
so essential to a masterpiece. There is stuff enough of thought and vigor and imagination to
make a dozen artists. And yet we turn away disappointed from the crowded, dazzling, stupefying
wilderness of forms and faces on these mighty walls.

All that Ferrari derived from actual life--the heads of single figures, the powerful movement
of men and women in excited action, the monumental pose of two praying nuns--is admirably rendered.
His angels, too, in S. Cristoforo, as elsewhere, are quite original; not only in their type
of beauty, which is terrestrial and peculiar to Ferrari, without a touch of Correggio's sensuality;
but also in the intensity of their emotion, the realisation of their vitality. Those which
hover round the Cross in the fresco of the "Crucifixion" are as passionate as any angels of
the Giottesque masters in Assisi. Those, again, which crowd the Stable of Bethlehem in the
"Nativity" yield no point of idyllic charm to Gozzoli's in the Riccardi Chapel.

The "Crucifixion," and the "Assumption of Madonna" are very tall and narrow compositions, audacious
in their attempt to fill almost unmanageable space with a connected action. Of the two frescos,
the "Crucifixion," which has points of strong similarity to the same subject at Varallo, is
by far the best. Ferrari never painted anything at once truer to life and nobler in tragic
style than the fainting Virgin. Her face expresses the very acme of martyrdom--not exaggerated
nor spasmodic, but real and sublime--in the suffering of a stately matron. In points like this
Ferrari cannot be surpassed. Raphael could scarcely have done better; besides, there is an
air of sincerity, a stamp of popular truth in this episode which lies beyond Raphael's sphere.
It reminds us rather of Tintoretto.

After the "Crucifixion," I place the "Adoration of the Magi," full of fine mundane motives
and gorgeous costumes; then the "Sposalizio" (whose marriage I am not certain), the only grandly
composed picture of the series, and marked by noble heads; then the "Adoration of the Shepherds,"
with two lovely angels holding the bambino. The "Assumption of the Magdalen"--for which fresco
there is a valuable cartoon in the Albertina Collection at Turin--must have been a fine picture;
but it is ruined now. An oil altar-piece, in the choir of the same church, struck me less than
the frescos. It represents Madonna and a crowd of saints under an orchard of apple-trees, with
cherubs curiously flung about almost at random in the air. The motive of the orchard is prettily
conceived and carried out with spirit.

What Ferrari possessed was rapidity of movement, fulness and richness of reality, exuberance
of invention, excellent portraiture, dramatic vehemence, and an almost unrivalled sympathy
with the swift and passionate world of angels. What he lacked was power of composition, simplicity
of total effect, harmony in coloring, control over his own luxuriance, the sense of tranquillity.
He seems to have sought grandeur in size and multitude, richness, éclat, contrast. Being the
disciple of Leonardo and Raphael, his defects are truly singular. As a composer, the old leaven
of Giovenone remained in him; but he felt the dramatic tendencies of a later age, and in occasional
episodes he realized them with a force and furia granted to very few of the Italian painters.

LANINI AT VERCELLI.

The Casa Mariano is a palace which belonged to a family of that name. Like many houses of the
sort in Italy, it fell to vile uses, and its hall of audience was turned into a lumber-room.
The Operai of Vercelli, I was told, bought the palace a few years ago, restored the noble hall,
and devoted a smaller room to a collection of pictures valuable for students of the early Vercellese
style of painting. Of these there is no need to speak. The great hall is the gem of the Casa
Mariano. It has a coved roof, with a large, flat, oblong space in the centre of the ceiling.
The whole of this vault and the lunettes beneath were painted by Lanini; so runs the tradition
of the fresco-painter's name; and though much injured by centuries of outrage, and somewhat
marred by recent restoration, these frescos form a precious monument of Lombard art. The object
of the painter's design seems to have been the glorification of Music. In the central compartment
of the roof is an assembly of the gods, obviously borrowed from Raphael's "Marriage of Cupid
and Psyche" in the Farnesina at Rome. The fusion of Roman composition with Lombard execution
constitutes the chief charm of this singular work, and makes it, so far as I am aware, unique.
Single figures of the Goddesses, and the whole movement of the scene upon Olympus, are transcribed
without attempt at concealment. And yet the fresco is not a bare-faced copy. The manner of
feeling and of execution is quite different from that of Raphael's school. The poetry and sentiment
are genuinely Lombard. None of Raphael's pupils could have carried out his design with a delicacy
of emotion and a technical skill in coloring so consummate. What, we think, as we gaze upward,
would the master have given for such a craftsman? The hardness, coarseness, and animal crudity
of the Roman school are absent; so also is their vigor. But where the grace of form and color
is so soft and sweet, where the high-bred calm of good company is so sympathetically rendered,
where the atmosphere of amorous languor and of melody is so artistically diffused, we cannot
miss the powerful modelling and rather vulgar tours de force of Giulio Romano. The scala of
tone is silvery golden. There are no hard blues, no coarse red flesh-tints, no black shadows.
Mellow lights, the morning hues of primrose or of palest amber, pervade the whole society.
It is a court of gentle and harmonious souls; and though this style of beauty might cloy, at
first sight there is something ravishing in those yellow-haired, white-limbed, blooming deities.
No movement of lascivious grace as in Correggio, no perturbation of the senses, as in some
of the Venetians, disturbs the rhythm of their music; nor is the pleasure of the flesh, though
felt by the painter and communicated to the spectator, an interruption to their divine calm.
The white, saffron-haired goddesses are grouped together like stars seen in the topaz light
of evening, like daffodils half smothered in snow-drops, and among them Diana, with the crescent
on her forehead, is the fairest. Her dream-like beauty need fear no comparison with the Diana
of the Camera di S. Paolo. Apollo and Bacchus are scarcely less lovely in their bloom of earliest
manhood; honey-pale, as Greeks would say; like statues of living electron; realizing Simætha's
picture of her lover and his friend:

    +tois d' ên xanthotera men helichrysoio geneias,
     stêthea de stilbonta poly pleon ê ty Selana.+

It was thus that the almost childlike spirit of the Milanese painters felt the antique; how
differently from their Roman brethren! It was thus that they interpreted the lines of their
own poets:

    E i tuoi capei più volte ho somigliati
    Di Cerere a le paglie secche o bionde
    Dintorno crespi al tuo capo legati.[F]

Yet the painter of this hall--whether we are to call him Lanini or another--was not a composer.
Where he has not robbed the motives and the distribution of the figures from Raphael, he has
nothing left but grace of detail. The intellectual feebleness of his style may be seen in many
figures of women playing upon instruments of music, ranged around the walls. One girl at the
organ is graceful; another with a tambourine has a sort of Bassarid beauty. But the group of
Apollo, Pegasus, and a Muse upon Parnassus is a failure in its meaningless frigidity, while
few of these subordinate compositions show power of conception or vigor of design.

Lanini, like Sodoma, was a native of Vercelli; and though he was Ferrari's pupil, there is
more in him of Luini or of Sodoma than of his master. He does not rise at any point to the
height of these three great masters, but he shares some of Luini's and Sodoma's fine qualities,
without having any of Ferrari's force. A visit to the mangled remnants of his frescos in S.
Caterina will repay the student of art. This was once, apparently, a double church with the
hall and chapel of a confraternità appended to it. One portion of the building was painted
with the history of the saint; and very lovely must this work have been, to judge by the fragments
which have recently been rescued from whitewash, damp, and ruthless mutilation. What wonderful
Lombard faces, half obliterated on the broken wall and mouldering plaster, smile upon us like
drowned memories swimming up from the depths of oblivion! Wherever three or four are grouped
together, we find an exquisite little picture--an old woman and two young women in a doorway,
for example, telling no story, but touching us with simple harmony of form. Nothing further
is needed to render their grace intelligible. Indeed, knowing the faults of the school, we
may seek some consolation by telling ourselves that these incomplete fragments yield Lanini's
best. In the coved compartments of the roof, above the windows, ran a row of dancing boys;
and these are still most beautifully modelled, though the pallor of recent whitewash is upon
them. All the boys have blonde hair. They are naked, with scrolls or ribbons wreathed round
them, adding to the airiness of their continual dance. Some of the loveliest are in a room
used to stow away the lumber of the church--old boards and curtains, broken lanterns, candle-ends
in tin sconces, the musty apparatus of festival adornments, and in the midst of all a battered,
weather-beaten bier.

THE PIAZZA OF PIACENZA.

The great feature of Piacenza is its famous piazza--a romantically, picturesquely perfect square,
surpassing the most daring attempts of the scene-painter, and realizing a poet's dreams. The
space is considerable, and many streets converge upon it at irregular angles. Its finest architectural
feature is the antique Palace of the Commune: Gothic arcades of stone below, surmounted by
a brick building with wonderfully delicate and varied terra-cotta work in the round-arched
windows. Before this façade, on the marble pavement, prance the bronze equestrian statues of
two Farnesi--insignificant men, exaggerated horses, flying drapery--as barocco as it is possible
to be in style, but so splendidly toned with verdigris, so superb in their bravura attitude,
and so happily placed in the line of two streets lending far vistas from the square into the
town beyond, that it is difficult to criticise them seriously. They form, indeed, an important
element in the pictorial effect, and enhance the terra-cotta work of the façade, by the contrast
of their color.

The time to see this square is in evening twilight--that wonderful hour after sunset--when
the people are strolling on the pavement, polished to a mirror by the pacing of successive
centuries, and when the cavalry soldiers group themselves at the angles under the lamp-posts
or beneath the dimly lighted Gothic arches of the palace. This is the magical mellow hour to
be sought by lovers of the picturesque in all the towns of Italy, the hour which, by its tender
blendings of sallow western lights with glimmering lamps, casts the veil of half-shadow over
any crudeness and restores the injuries of time; the hour when all the tints of these old buildings
are intensified, etherealized, and harmonized by one pervasive glow. When I last saw Piacenza,
it had been raining all day; and ere sun-down a clearing had come from the Alps, followed by
fresh threatenings of thunderstorms. The air was very liquid. There was a tract of yellow sunset
sky to westward, a faint new moon half swathed in mist above, and over all the north a huge
towered thunder-cloud kept flashing distant lightnings. The pallid primrose of the West, forced
down and reflected back from the vast bank of tempest, gave unearthly beauty to the hues of
church and palace--tender half-tones of violet and russet paling into grays and yellows on
what in daylight seemed but dull red brick. Even the uncompromising façade of St. Francesco
helped; and the dukes were like statues of the "Gran Commendatore," waiting for Don Giovanni's
invitation.

MASOLINO AT CASTIGLIONE D'OLONA.

Through the loveliest Arcadian scenery of woods and fields and rushing waters the road leads
downward from Varese to Castiglione. The Collegiate Church stands on a leafy hill above the
town, with fair prospect over groves and waterfalls and distant mountains. Here in the choir
is a series of frescos by Masolino da Panicale, the master of Masaccio, who painted them about
the year 1428. "Masolinus de Florentia pinxit" decides their authorship. The histories of the
Virgin, St. Stephen, and St. Lawrence are represented; but the injuries of time and neglect
have been so great that it is difficult to judge them fairly. All we feel for certain is that
Masolino had not yet escaped from the traditional Giottesque mannerism. Only a group of Jews
stoning Stephen and Lawrence before the tribunal remind us by dramatic energy of the Brancacci
chapel.

The baptistery frescos, dealing with the legend of St. John, show a remarkable advance; and
they are luckily in better preservation. A soldier lifting his two-handed sword to strike off
the Baptist's head is a vigorous figure full of Florentine realism. Also in the Baptism in
Jordan we are reminded of Masaccio by an excellent group of bathers--one man taking off his
hose, another putting them on again, a third standing naked with his back turned, and a fourth
shivering half-dressed with a look of curious sadness on his face. The nude has been carefully
studied and well realized. The finest composition of this series is a large panel representing
a double action--Salome at Herod's table begging for the Baptist's head, and then presenting
it to her mother Herodias. The costumes are quattrocento Florentine, exactly rendered. Salome
is a graceful, slender creature; the two women who regard her offering to Herodias with mingled
curiosity and horror are well conceived. The background consists of a mountain landscape in
Masaccio's simple manner, a rich Renaissance villa, and an open loggia. The architecture perspective
is scientifically accurate, and a frieze of boys with garlands on the villa is in the best
manner of Florentine sculpture. On the mountain-side, diminished in scale, is a group of elders
burying the body of St. John. These are massed together and robed in the style of Masaccio,
and have his virile dignity of form and action. Indeed, this interesting wall-painting furnishes
an epitome of Florentine art, in its intentions and achievements, during the first half of
the fifteenth century. The color is strong and brilliant, and the execution solid.

The margin of the Salome panel has been used for scratching the chronicle of Castiglione. I
read one date, 1568, several of the next century, the record of a duel between two gentlemen,
and many inscriptions to this effect "Erodiana Regina," "Omnia prætereunt," etc. A dirty, one-eyed
fellow keeps the place. In my presence he swept the frescos over with a scratchy broom, flaying
their upper surface in profound unconsciousness of mischief. The armor of the executioner has
had its steel colors almost rubbed off by this infernal process. Damp and cobwebs are far kinder.

THE CERTOSA.

The Certosa of Pavia leaves upon the mind an impression of bewildering sumptuousness: nowhere
else are costly materials so combined with a lavish expenditure of the rarest art. Those who
have only once been driven round together with the crew of sight-seers can carry little away
but the memory of lapis-lazuli and bronze-work, inlaid agates and labyrinthine sculpture, cloisters
tenantless in silence, fair painted faces smiling from dark corners on the senseless crowd,
trim gardens with rows of pink primroses in spring and of begonia in autumn, blooming beneath
colonnades of glowing terra-cotta. The striking contrast between the Gothic of the interior
and the Renaissance façade, each in its own kind perfect, will also be remembered; and thoughts
of the two great houses, Visconti and Sforza, to whose pride of power it is a monument, may
be blended with the recollection of art-treasures alien to their spirit.

Two great artists, Ambrogio Borgognone and Antonio Amadeo, are the presiding genii of the Certosa.
To minute criticism, based upon the accurate investigation of records and the comparison of
styles, must be left the task of separating their work from that of numerous collaborators.
But it is none the less certain that the keynote of the whole music is struck by them. Amadeo,
the master of the Colleoni chapel at Bergamo, was both sculptor and architect. If the façade
of the Certosa be not absolutely his creation, he had a hand in the distribution of its masses
and the detail of its ornaments. The only fault in this otherwise faultless product of the
purest quattrocento inspiration is that the façade is a frontispiece, with hardly any structural
relation to the church it masks; and this, though serious from the point of view of architecture,
is no abatement of its sculpturesque and picturesque refinement. At first sight it seems a
wilderness of loveliest reliefs and statues--of angel faces, fluttering raiment, flowing hair,
love-laden youths, and stationary figures of grave saints, mid wayward tangles of acanthus
and wild vine and cupid-laden foliage; but the subordination of these decorative details to
the main design--clear, rhythmical, and lucid, like a chant of Pergolese or Stradella--will
enrapture one who has the sense for unity evoked from divers elements, for thought subduing
all caprices to the harmony of beauty. It is not possible elsewhere in Italy to find the instinct
of the earlier Renaissance, so amorous in its expenditure of rare material, so lavish in its
bestowal of the costliest workmanship on ornamental episodes, brought into truer keeping with
a pure and simple structural effect.

All the great sculptor-architects of Lombardy worked in succession on this miracle of beauty;
and this may account for the sustained perfection of style, which nowhere suffers from the
languor of exhaustion in the artist or from repetition of motives. It remains the triumph of
North Italian genius, exhibiting qualities of tenderness and self-abandonment to inspiration
which we lack in the severer masterpieces of the Tuscan school.

To Borgognone is assigned the painting of the roof in nave and choir--exceeding rich, varied,
and withal in sympathy with stately Gothic style. Borgognone, again, is said to have designed
the saints and martyrs worked in tarsia for the choir-stalls. His frescos are in some parts
well preserved, as in the lovely little Madonna at the end of the south chapel, while the great
fresco above the window in the south transept has an historical value that renders it interesting
in spite of partial decay. Borgognone's oil-pictures throughout the church prove, if such proof
were needed after inspection of the altar-piece in our National Gallery, that he was one of
the most powerful and original painters of Italy, blending the repose of the earlier masters
and their consummate workmanship with a profound sensibility to the finest shades of feeling
and the rarest forms of natural beauty. He selected an exquisite type of face for his young
men and women; on his old men he bestowed singular gravity and dignity. His saints are a society
of strong, pure, restful, earnest souls, in whom the passion of deepest emotion is transfigured
by habitual calm. The brown and golden harmonies he loved are gained without sacrifice of lustre:
there is a self-restraint in his coloring which corresponds to the reserve of his emotion;
and though a regret sometimes rises in our mind that he should have modelled the light and
shade upon his faces with a brusque, unpleasing hardness, their pallor dwells within our memory
as something delicately sought if not consummately attained. In a word, Borgognone was a true
Lombard of the best time. The very imperfection of his flesh-painting repeats in color what
the greatest Lombard sculptors sought in stone--a sharpness of relief that passes over into
angularity. This brusqueness was the counter-poise to tenderness of feeling and intensity of
fancy in these Northern artists. Of all Borgognone's pictures in the Certosa, I should select
the altar-piece of St. Siro with St. Lawrence and St. Stephen and two fathers of the Church,
for its fusion of this master's qualities.

The Certosa is a wilderness of lovely workmanship. From Borgognone's majesty we pass into the
quiet region of Luini's Christian grace, or mark the influence of Leonardo on that rare Assumption
of Madonna by his pupil, Andrea Solari. Like everything touched by the Leonardesque spirit,
this great picture was left unfinished; yet Northern Italy has nothing finer to show than the
landscape, outspread in its immeasurable purity of calm, behind the grouped Apostles and the
ascendent Mother of Heaven. The feeling of that happy region between the Alps and Lombardy,
where there are many waters--et tacitos sine labe lacus sine murmure rivos--and where the last
spurs of the mountains sink in undulations to the plain, has passed into this azure vista,
just as all Umbria is suggested in a twilight background of young Raphael or Perugino.

The portraits of the dukes of Milan and their families carry us into a very different realm
of feeling. Medallions above the doors of sacristy and chancel, stately figures reared aloft
beneath gigantic canopies, men and women slumbering with folded hands upon their marble biers--we
read in all those sculptured forms a strange record of human restlessness resolved into the
quiet of the tomb. The iniquities of Gian Galeazzo Visconti, il gran Biscione; the blood-thirst
of Gian Maria; the dark designs of Filippo and his secret vices; Francesco Sforza's treason;
Galeazzo Maria's vanities and lusts; their tyrants' dread of thunder and the knife; their awful
deaths by pestilence and the assassin's poniard; their selfishness, oppression, cruelty, and
fraud; the murders of their kinsmen; their labyrinthine plots and acts of broken faith--all
is tranquil now, and we can say to each what Bosola found for the Duchess of Malfi ere her
execution:

    Much you had of land and rent;
    Your length in clay's now competent:
    A long war disturbed your mind;
    Here your perfect peace is signed!

Some of these faces are commonplace, with bourgeois cunning written on the heavy features;
one is bluff, another stolid, a third bloated, a fourth stately. The sculptors have dealt fairly
with all, and not one has the lineaments of utter baseness. To Cristoforo Solari's statues
of Lodovico Sforza and his wife, Beatrice d'Este, the palm of excellence in art and of historical
interest must be awarded. Sculpture has rarely been more dignified and true to life than here.
The woman with her short clustering curls, the man with his strong face, are resting after
that long fever which brought woe to Italy, to Europe a new age, and to the boasted minion
of fortune a slow death in the prison palace of Loches. Attired in ducal robes, they lie in
state; and the sculptor has carved the lashes on their eyelids heavy with death's marmoreal
sleep. He, at least, has passed no judgment on their crimes. Let us, too, bow and leave their
memories to the historian's pen, their spirits to God's mercy.

After all wanderings in this temple of art, we return to Antonio Amadeo, to his long-haired
seraphs playing on the lutes of Paradise, to his angels of the Passion with their fluttering
robes and arms outspread in agony, to his saints and satyrs mingled on pilasters of the marble
doorways, his delicate Lavabo decorations, and his hymns of piety expressed in noble forms
of weeping women and dead Christs. Wherever we may pass, this master-spirit of the Lombard
style enthralls attention. His curious treatment of drapery, as though it were made of crumpled
paper, and his trick of enhancing relief by sharp angles and attenuated limbs, do not detract
from his peculiar charm. That is his way, very different from Donatello's, of attaining to
the maximum of life and lightness in the stubborn vehicle of stone. Nor do all the riches of
the choir--those multitudes of singing angels, those Ascensions and Assumptions, and innumerable
bass-reliefs of gleaming marble moulded into softest wax by mastery of art--distract our eyes
from the single round medallion, not larger than a common plate, inscribed by him upon the
front of the high-altar. Perhaps, if one who loved Amadeo were bidden to point out his masterpiece,
he would lead the way at once to this. The space is small; yet it includes the whole tragedy
of the Passion. Christ is lying dead among the women on his mother's lap, and there are pitying
angels in the air above. One woman lifts his arm, another makes her breast a pillow for his
head. Their agony is hushed, but felt in every limb and feature; and the extremity of suffering
is seen in each articulation of the worn and wounded form just taken from the cross. It would
be too painful, were not the harmony of art so rare, the interlacing of those many figures
in a simple round so exquisite. The noblest tranquillity and the most passionate emotion are
here fused in a manner of adorable naturalness.

From the church it is delightful to escape into the cloisters, flooded with sunlight, where
the swallows skim and the brown hawks circle and the mason-bees are at work upon their cells
among the carvings. The arcades of the two cloisters are the final triumph of Lombard terra-cotta.
The memory fails before such infinite invention, such facility and felicity of execution. Wreaths
of cupids gliding round the arches among grape-bunches and bird-haunted foliage of vine; rows
of angels, like rising and setting planets, some smiling and some grave, ascending and descending
by the Gothic curves; saints stationary on their pedestals and faces leaning from the rounds
above; crowds of cherubs and courses of stars and acanthus-leaves in woven lines and ribbons
incessantly inscribed with Ave Maria! Then, over all, the rich red light and purple shadows
of the brick, than which no substance sympathizes more completely with the sky of solid blue
above, the broad plain space of waving summer grass beneath our feet.

It is now late afternoon, and when evening comes the train will take us back to Milan. There
is yet a little while to rest tired eyes and strained spirits among the willows and the poplars
by the monastery wall. Through that gray-green leafage, young with early spring, the pinnacles
of the Certosa leap like flames into the sky. The rice-fields are under water, far and wide,
shining like burnished gold beneath the level light now near to sun-down. Frogs are croaking;
those persistent frogs whom the muses have ordained to sing for aye, in spite of Bion and all
tuneful poets dead. We sit and watch the water-snakes, the busy rats, the hundred creatures
swarming in the fat, well-watered soil. Nightingales here and there, new-comers, tune their
timid April song. But, strangest of all sounds in such a place, my comrade from the Grisons
jodels forth an Alpine cowherd's melody--Auf den Alpen droben ist ein herrliches Leben!

Did the echoes of Gian Galeazzo's convent ever wake to such a tune as this before?

SAN MAURIZIO.

The student of art in Italy, after mastering the characters of different styles and epochs,
finds a final satisfaction in the contemplation of buildings designed and decorated by one
master, or by groups of artists interpreting the spirit of a single period. Such supreme monuments
of the national genius are not very common, and they are therefore the more precious. Giotto's
chapel at Padua; the Villa Farnesina at Rome, built by Peruzzi and painted in fresco by Raphael
and Sodoma; the Palazzo del Te at Mantua, Giulio Romano's masterpiece; the Scuola di San Rocco,
illustrating the Venetian Renaissance at its climax, might be cited among the most splendid
of these achievements. In the church of the Monastero Maggiore at Milan, dedicated to San Maurizio,
Lombard architecture and fresco-painting may be studied in this rare combination. The monastery
itself, one of the oldest in Milan, formed a retreat for cloistered virgins following the rule
of St. Benedict. It may have been founded as early as the tenth century; but its church was
rebuilt in the first two decades of the sixteenth, between 1503 and 1519, and was immediately
afterwards decorated with frescos by Luini and his pupils. Gian Giacomo Dolcebono, architect
and sculptor, called by his fellow-craftsmen magistro di taliare pietre, gave the design, at
once simple and harmonious, which was carried out with hardly any deviation from his plan.
The church is a long parallelogram, divided into two unequal portions, the first and smaller
for the public, the second for the nuns. The walls are pierced with rounded and pilastered
windows, ten on each side, four of which belong to the outer and six to the inner section.
The dividing wall or septum rises to the point from which the groinings of the roof spring;
and round three sides of the whole building, north, east, and south, runs a gallery for the
use of the convent. The altars of the inner and outer church are placed against the septum,
back to back, with certain differences of structure that need not be described. Simple and
severe, San Maurizio owes its architectural beauty wholly and entirely to purity of line and
perfection of proportion. There is a prevailing spirit of repose, a sense of space, fair, lightsome,
and adapted to serene moods of the meditative fancy in this building which is singularly at
variance with the religious mysticism and imaginative grandeur of a Gothic edifice. The principal
beauty of the church, however, is its tone of color. Every square inch is covered with fresco
or rich wood-work mellowed by time into that harmony of tints which blends the work of greater
and lesser artists in one golden hue of brown. Round the arcades of the convent-loggia run
delicate arabesques with faces of fair female saints--Catherine, Agnes, Lucy, Agatha--gem-like
or star-like, gazing from their gallery upon the church below. The Luinesque smile is on their
lips and in their eyes, quiet, refined, as though the emblems of their martyrdom brought back
no thought of pain to break the Paradise of rest in which they dwell. There are twenty-six
in all--a sisterhood of stainless souls, the lilies of Love's garden planted round Christ's
throne. Soldier saints are mingled with them in still smaller rounds above the windows, chosen
to illustrate the virtues of an order which renounced the world. To decide whose hand produced
these masterpieces of Lombard suavity and grace, or whether more than one, would not be easy.
Near the altar we can perhaps trace the style of Bartolommeo Suardi in an Annunciation painted
on the spandrils--that heroic style, large and noble, known to us by the chivalrous St. Martin
and the glorified Madonna of the Brera frescos. It is not impossible that the male saints of
the loggia may be also his, though a tenderer touch, a something more nearly Leonardesque in
its quietude, must be discerned in Lucy and her sisters. The whole of the altar in this inner
church belongs to Luini. Were it not for darkness and decay, we should pronounce this series
of the Passion in nine great compositions, with saints and martyrs and torch-bearing genii,
to be one of his most ambitious and successful efforts. As it is, we can but judge in part;
the adolescent beauty of Sebastian, the grave compassion of St. Rocco, the classical perfection
of the cupid with lighted tapers, the gracious majesty of women smiling on us sideways from
their Lombard eyelids--these remain to haunt our memory, emerging from the shadows of the vault
above.

The inner church, as is fitting, excludes all worldly elements. We are in the presence of Christ's
agony, relieved and tempered by the sunlight of those beauteous female faces. All is solemn
here, still as the convent, pure as the meditations of a novice. We pass the septum, and find
ourselves in the outer church appropriated to the laity. Above the high-altar the whole wall
is covered with Luini's loveliest work, in excellent light and far from ill preserved. The
space divides into eight compartments. A Pietà, an Assumption, Saints and Founders of the church,
group themselves under the influence of Luini's harmonizing color into one symphonious whole.
But the places of distinction are reserved for two great benefactors of the convent, Alessandro
de' Bentivogli and his wife, Ippolita Sforza. When the Bentivogli were expelled from Bologna
by the papal forces, Alessandro settled at Milan, where he dwelt, honored by the Sforzas and
allied to them by marriage, till his death in 1532. He was buried in the monastery by the side
of his sister Alessandra, a nun of the order. Luini has painted the illustrious exile in his
habit as he lived. He is kneeling, as though in ever-during adoration of the altar mystery,
attired in a long black senatorial robe trimmed with furs. In his left hand he holds a book;
and above his pale, serenely noble face is a little black berretta. Saints attend him, as though
attesting to his act of faith. Opposite kneels Ippolita, his wife, the brilliant queen of fashion,
the witty leader of society, to whom Bandello dedicated his Novelle, and whom he praised as
both incomparably beautiful and singularly learned. Her queenly form is clothed from head to
foot in white brocade, slashed and trimmed with gold lace, and on her forehead is a golden
circlet. She has the proud port of a princess, the beauty of a woman past her prime, but stately,
the indescribable dignity of attitude which no one but Luini could have rendered so majestically
sweet. In her hand is a book; and she, like Alessandro, has her saintly sponsors, Agnes and
Catherine and St. Scolastica.

Few pictures bring the splendid Milanese court so vividly before us as these portraits of the
Bentivogli: they are, moreover, very precious for the light they throw on what Luini could
achieve in the secular style so rarely touched by him. Great, however, as are these frescos,
they are far surpassed both in value and interest by his paintings in the side chapel of St.
Catherine. Here more than anywhere else, more even than at Saronno or Lugano, do we feel the
true distinction of Luini--his unrivalled excellence as a colourist, his power over pathos,
the refinement of his feeling, and the peculiar beauty of his favorite types. The chapel was
decorated at the expense of a Milanese advocate, Francesco Besozzi, who died in 1529. It is
he who is kneeling, gray-haired and bare-headed, under the protection of St. Catherine of Alexandria,
intently gazing at Christ unbound from the scourging-pillar. On the other side stand St. Lawrence
and St. Stephen, pointing to the Christ and looking at us, as though their lips were framed
to say: "Behold and see if there be any sorrow like unto his sorrow." Even the soldiers who
have done their cruel work seem softened. They untie the cords tenderly, and support the fainting
form, too weak to stand alone. What sadness in the lovely faces of Sts. Catherine and Lawrence!
What divine anguish in the loosened limbs and bending body of Christ; what piety in the adoring
old man! All the moods proper to this supreme tragedy of the faith are touched as in some tenor
song with low accompaniment of viols; for it was Luini's special province to feel profoundly
and to express musically. The very depth of the Passion is there; and yet there is no discord.

Just in proportion to this unique faculty for yielding a melodious representation of the most
intense moments of stationary emotion was his inability to deal with a dramatic subject. The
first episode of St. Catherine's execution, when the wheel was broken and the executioners
struck by lightning, is painted in this chapel without energy and with a lack of composition
that betrays the master's indifference to his subject. Far different is the second episode
when Catherine is about to be beheaded. The executioner has raised his sword to strike. She,
robed in brocade of black and gold, so cut as to display the curve of neck and back, while
the bosom is covered, leans her head above her praying hands, and waits the blow in sweetest
resignation. Two soldiers stand at some distance in a landscape of hill and meadow; and far
up are seen the angels carrying her body to its tomb upon Mount Sinai. I cannot find words
or summon courage to describe the beauty of this picture--its atmosphere of holy peace, the
dignity of its composition, the golden richness of its coloring. The most tragic situation
has here again been alchemized by Luini's magic into a pure idyl, without the loss of power,
without the sacrifice of edification.

St. Catherine, in this incomparable fresco, is a portrait, the history of which so strikingly
illustrates the relation of the arts to religion on the one hand, and to life on the other,
in the age of the Renaissance, that it cannot be omitted. At the end of his fourth Novella,
having related the life of the Contessa di Cellant, Bandello says: "And so the poor woman was
beheaded; such was the end of her unbridled desires; and he who would fain see her painted
to the life, let him go to the Church of the Monastero Maggiore, and there will he behold her
portrait." The Contessa di Cellant was the only child of a rich usurer who lived at Casal Monferrato.
Her mother was a Greek; and she was a girl of such exquisite beauty that, in spite of her low
origin, she became the wife of the noble Ermes Visconti in her sixteenth year. He took her
to live with him at Milan, where she frequented the house of the Bentivogli, but none other.
Her husband told Bandello that he knew her temper better than to let her visit with the freedom
of the Milanese ladies. Upon his death, while she was little more than twenty, she retired
to Casale and led a gay life among many lovers. One of these, the Count of Cellant in the Val
d'Aosta, became her second husband, conquered by her extraordinary loveliness. They could not,
however, agree together. She left him, and established herself at Pavia. Rich with her father's
wealth and still of most seductive beauty, she now abandoned herself to a life of profligacy.
Three among her lovers must be named: Ardizzino Valperga, Count of Masino; Roberto Sanseverino,
of the princely Naples family; and Don Pietro di Cardona, a Sicilian. With each of the two
first she quarrelled, and separately besought each to murder the other. They were friends,
and frustrated her plans by communicating them to one another. The third loved her with the
insane passion of a very young man. What she desired, he promised to do blindly; and she bade
him murder his two predecessors in her favor. At this time she was living at Milan, where the
Duke of Bourbon was acting as viceroy for the emperor. Don Pietro took twenty-five armed men
of his household and waylaid the Count of Masino as he was returning, with his brother and
eight or nine servants, late one night from supper. Both the brothers and the greater part
of their suite were killed; but Don Pietro was caught. He revealed the atrocity of his mistress;
and she was sent to prison. Incapable of proving her innocence, and prevented from escaping,
in spite of fifteen thousand golden crowns with which she hoped to bribe her jailers, she was
finally beheaded. Thus did a vulgar and infamous Messalina, distinguished only by rare beauty,
furnish Luini with a St. Catherine for this masterpiece of pious art! The thing seems scarcely
credible. Yet Bandello lived in Milan while the Church of St. Maurizio was being painted; nor
does he show the slightest sign of disgust at the discord between the Contessa's life and her
artistic presentation in the person of a royal martyr.

A HUMANIST'S MONUMENT.

In the Sculpture Gallery of the Brera is preserved a fair white marble tomb, carved by that
excellent Lombard sculptor Agostino Busti. The epitaph runs as follows:

    En Virtutem Mortis nesciam.
    Vivet Lancinus Curtius
      Sæcula per omnia
    Quascunque lustrans oras,
    Tantum possunt Camoenæ.

"Look here on Virtue that knows naught of Death! Lancinus Curtius shall live through all the
centuries, and visit every shore on earth. Such power have the Muses." The time-worn poet reclines,
as though sleeping or resting, ready to be waked; his head is covered with flowing hair, and
crowned with laurel; it leans upon his left hand. On either side of his couch stand cupids
or genii with torches turned to earth. Above is a group of the three Graces, flanked by winged
Pegasi. Higher up are throned two Victories with palms, and at the top a naked Fame. We need
not ask who was Lancinus Curtius. He is forgotten, and his virtue has not saved him from oblivion;
though he strove in his lifetime, pro virili parte, for the palm that Busti carved upon his
grave. Yet his monument teaches in short compass a deep lesson; and his epitaph sums up the
dream which lured the men of Italy in the Renaissance to their doom. We see before us sculptured
in this marble the ideal of the humanistic poet-scholar's life: Love, Grace, the Muse, and
Nakedness, and Glory. There is not a single intrusive thought derived from Christianity. The
end for which the man lived was pagan. His hope was earthly fame. Yet his name survives, if
this indeed be a survival, not in those winged verses which were to carry him abroad across
the earth, but in the marble of a cunning craftsman, scanned now and then by a wandering scholar's
eye in the half-darkness of a vault.

THE MONUMENT OF GASTON DE FOIX IN THE BRERA.

The hero of Ravenna lies stretched upon his back in the hollow of a bier covered with laced
drapery; and his head rests on richly ornamented cushions. These decorative accessories, together
with the minute work of his scabbard, wrought in the fanciful mannerism of the cinquecento,
serve to enhance the statuesque simplicity of the young soldier's effigy. The contrast between
so much of richness in the merely subordinate details and this sublime severity of treatment
in the person of the hero is truly and touchingly dramatic. There is a smile, as of content
in death, upon his face; and the features are exceedingly beautiful--with the beauty of a boy,
almost of a woman. The heavy hair cut straight above the forehead and straight over the shoulders,
falling in massive clusters. A delicately sculptured laurel-branch is woven into a victor's
crown and laid lightly on the tresses it scarcely seems to clasp. So fragile is this wreath
that it does not break the pure outline of the boy-conqueror's head. The armor is quite plain.
So is the surcoat. Upon the swelling bust, that seems fit harbor for a hero's heart, there
lies the collar of an order composed of cockle-shells; and this is all the ornament given to
the figure. The hands are clasped across a sword laid flat upon the breast, and placed between
the legs. Upon the chin is a little tuft of hair, parted, and curling either way; for the victor
of Ravenna like the Hermes of Homer, was +prôton hypênêtês+, "a youth of princely blood, whose
beard hath just begun to grow, for whom the season of bloom is in its prime of grace." The
whole statue is the idealization of virtù--that quality so highly prized by the Italians and
the ancients, so well fitted for commemoration in the arts. It is the apotheosis of human life
resolved into undying memory because of one great deed. It is the supreme portrait in modern
times of a young hero, chiselled by artists belonging to a race no longer heroic, but capable
of comprehending and expressing the æsthetic charm of heroism. Standing before it, we may say
of Gaston what Arrian wrote to Hadrian of Achilles: "That he was a hero, if hero ever lived,
I cannot doubt; for his birth and blood were noble, and he was beautiful, and his spirit was
mighty, and he passed in youth's prime away from men." Italian sculpture, under the condition
of the cinquecento, had indeed no more congenial theme than this of bravery and beauty, youth
and fame, immortal honor and untimely death; nor could any sculptor of death have poetized
the theme more thoroughly than Agostino Busti, whose simple instinct, unlike that of Michael
Angelo, led him to subordinate his own imagination to the pathos of reality.

SARONNO.

The Church of Saronno is a pretty building with a Bramantesque cupola, standing among meadows
at some distance from the little town. It is the object of a special cult, which draws pilgrims
from the neighboring country-side; but the concourse is not large enough to load the sanctuary
with unnecessary wealth. Everything is very quiet in the holy place, and the offerings of the
pious seem to have been only just enough to keep the building and its treasures of art in repair.
The church consists of a nave, a central cupola, a vestibule leading to the choir, the choir
itself, and a small tribune behind the choir. No other single building in North Italy can boast
so much that is first-rate of the work of Luini and Gaudenzio Ferrari.

The cupola is raised on a sort of drum composed of twelve pieces, perforated with round windows
and supported on four massive piers. On the level of the eye are frescos by Luini of St. Rocco,
St. Sebastian, St. Christopher, and St. Anthony--by no means in his best style, and inferior
to all his other paintings in this church. The Sebastian, for example, shows an effort to vary
the traditional treatment of this saint. He is tied in a sprawling attitude to a tree; and
little of Luini's special pathos or sense of beauty--the melody of idyllic grace made spiritual--appears
in him. These four saints are on the piers. Above are frescos from the early Bible history
by Lanini, painted in continuation of Ferrari's medallions from the story of Adam expelled
from Paradise, which fill the space beneath the cupola, leading the eye upward to Ferrari's
masterpiece.

The dome itself is crowded with a host of angels singing and playing upon instruments of music.
At each of the twelve angles of the drum stands a coryphæus of this celestial choir, full length,
with waving drapery. Higher up, the golden-haired, broad-winged divine creatures are massed
together, filling every square inch of the vault with color. Yet there is no confusion. The
simplicity of the selected motive and the necessities of the place acted like a check on Ferrari,
who, in spite of his dramatic impulse, could not tell a story coherently or fill a canvas with
harmonized variety. There is no trace of his violence here. Though the motion of music runs
through the whole multitude like a breeze, though the joy expressed is a real tripudio celeste,
not one of all these angels flings his arms abroad or makes a movement that disturbs the rhythm.
We feel that they are keeping time and resting quietly, each in his appointed seat, as though
the sphere was circling with them round the throne of God, who is their centre and their source
of gladness. Unlike Correggio and his imitators, Ferrari has introduced no clouds, and has
in no case made the legs of his angels prominent. It is a mass of noble faces and voluminously
robed figures, emerging each above the other like flowers in a vase. Each too has specific
character, while all are robust and full of life, intent upon the service set them. Their instruments
of music are all lutes and viols, flutes, cymbals, drums, fifes, citherns, organs, and harps
that Ferrari's day could show. The scale of color, as usual with Ferrari, is a little heavy;
nor are the tints satisfactorily harmonized. But the vigor and invention of the whole work
would atone for minor defects of far greater consequence.

It is natural, beneath this dome, to turn aside and think one moment of Correggio at Parma.
Before the macchinisti of the seventeenth century had vulgarized the motive, Correggio's bold
attempt to paint heaven in flight from earth--earth left behind in the persons of the apostles
standing round the empty tomb, heaven soaring upward with a spiral vortex into the abyss of
light above--had an originality which set at naught all criticism. There is such ecstasy of
jubilation, such rapturous rapidity of flight, that we who strain our eyes from below feel
we are in the darkness of the grave which Mary left. A kind of controlling rhythm for the composition
is gained by placing Gabriel, Madonna, and Christ at three points in the swirl of angels. Nevertheless,
composition--the presiding, all-controlling intellect--is just what makes itself felt by absence;
and Correggio's special qualities of light and color have now so far vanished from the cupola
of the Duomo that the constructive poverty is not disguised. Here, if anywhere in painting,
we may apply Goethe's words--Gefühl ist Alles.

If, then, we return to Ferrari's angels at Saronno, we find that the painter of Varallo chose
a safer though a far more modest theme. Nor did he expose himself to that most cruel of all
degradations which the ethereal genius of Correggio has suffered from incompetent imitators.
To daub a tawdry and superficial reproduction of these Parmese frescos, to fill the cupolas
of Italy with veritable guazzetti di rane, was comparatively easy; and between our intelligence
and what remains of that stupendous masterpiece of boldness crowd a thousand memories of such
ineptitude. On the other hand, nothing but solid work and conscientious inspiration could enable
any workman, however able, to follow Ferrari in the path struck out by him at Saronno. His
cupola has had no imitator; and its only rival is the noble pendant painted at Varallo by his
own hand, of angels in adoring anguish round the cross.

In the ante-choir of the sanctuary are Luini's priceless frescos of the "Marriage of the Virgin"
and the "Dispute with the Doctors."[G] Their execution is flawless, and they are perfectly
preserved. If criticism before such admirable examples of so excellent a master be permissible,
it may be questioned whether the figures are not too crowded, whether the groups are sufficiently
varied and connected by rhythmic lines. Yet the concords of yellow and orange with blue in
the "Sposalizio," and the blendings of dull violet and red in the "Disputa," make up for much
of stiffness. Here, as in the Chapel of St. Catherine at Milan, we feel that Luini was the
greatest colourist among frescanti. In the "Sposalizio" the female heads are singularly noble
and idyllically graceful. Some of the young men too have Luini's special grace and abundance
of golden hair. In the "Disputa" the gravity and dignity of old men are above all things striking.

Passing into the choir, we find on either hand the "Adoration of the Magi" and the "Purification
of the Virgin," two of Luini's divinest frescos. Above them in lunettes are four Evangelists
and four Latin Fathers, with four Sibyls. Time and neglect have done no damage here; and here,
again, perforce we notice perfect mastery of color in fresco. The blues detach themselves too
much, perhaps, from the rest of the coloring; and that is all a devil's advocate could say.
It is possible that the absence of blue makes the St. Catherine frescos in the Monastero Maggiore
at Milan surpass all other works of Luini. But nowhere else has he shown more beauty and variety
in detail than here. The group of women led by Joseph, the shepherd carrying the lamb upon
his shoulder, the girl with a basket of white doves, the child with an apple on the altar-steps,
the lovely youth in the foreground heedless of the scene; all these are idyllic incidents treated
with the purest, the serenest, the most spontaneous, the truest, most instinctive sense of
beauty. The landscape includes a view of Saronno, and an episodical picture of the "Flight
into Egypt," where a white-robed angel leads the way. All these lovely things are in the "Purification,"
which is dated Bernardinus Lovinus pinxit, MDXXV.

The fresco of the "Magi" is less notable in detail, and in general effect is more spoiled by
obtrusive blues. There is, however, one young man of wholly Leonardesque loveliness, whose
divine innocence of adolescence, unalloyed by serious thought, unstirred by passions, almost
forces a comparison with Sodoma. The only painter who approaches Luini in what may be called
the Lombard, to distinguish it from the Venetian idyl, is Sodoma; and the work of his which
comes nearest to Luini's masterpieces is the legend of St. Benedict, at Monte Oliveto, near
Siena. Yet Sodoma had not all Luini's innocence or naïveté. If he added something slightly
humorous which has an indefinite charm, he lacked that freshness, as of "cool, meek-blooded
flowers" and boyish voices, which fascinates us in Luini. Sodoma was closer to the earth, and
feared not to impregnate what he saw of beauty with the fiercer passions of his nature. If
Luini had felt passion who shall say? It appears nowhere in his work, where life is toned to
a religious joyousness. When Shelley compared the poetry of the Theocritean amourists to the
perfume of the tuberose, and that of the earlier Greek poets to "a meadow-gale of June, which
mingles the fragrance of all the flowers of the field," he supplied us with critical images
which may not unfairly be used to point the distinction between Sodoma at Monte Oliveto and
Luini at Saronno.

THE CASTELLO OF FERRARA.

Is it possible that the patron saints of cities should mould the temper of the people to their
own likeness? St. George, the chivalrous, is champion of Ferrara. His is the marble group above
the cathedral porch, so feudal in its mediæval pomp. He and St. Michael are painted in fresco
over the south portcullis of the castle. His lustrous armor gleams with Giorgionesque brilliancy
from Dossi's masterpiece in the Pinacoteca. That Ferrara, the only place in Italy where chivalry
struck any root, should have had St. George for patron, is at any rate significant.

The best-preserved relic of princely feudal life in Italy is this Castello of the Este family,
with its sombre moat, chained draw-bridges, doleful dungeons, and unnumbered tragedies, each
one of which may be compared with Parisina's history. I do not want to dwell on these things
now. It is enough to remember the Castello, built of ruddiest brick, time-mellowed with how
many centuries of sun and soft sea-air, as it appeared upon the close of one tempestuous day.
Just before evening the rain-clouds parted and the sun flamed out across the misty Lombard
plain. The Castello burned like a hero's funeral pyre, and round its high-built turrets swallows
circled in the warm blue air. On the moat slept shadows, mixed with flowers of sunset, tossed
from pinnacle and gable. Then the sky changed. A roof of thunder-cloud spread overhead with
the rapidity of tempest. The dying sun gathered his last strength against it, fretting those
steel-blue arches with crimson; and all the fierce light, thrown from vault to vault of cloud,
was reflected back as from a shield, and cast in blots and patches on the buildings. The Castle
towered up rosy-red and shadowy sombre, enshrined, embosomed in those purple clouds; and momently
ran lightning-forks like rapiers through the growing mass. Everything around, meanwhile, was
quiet in the grass-grown streets. The only sound was a high, clear boy's voice chanting an
opera-tune.

PETRARCH'S TOMB AT ARQUA.

The drive from Este along the skirts of the Euganean Hills to Arqua takes one through a country
which is tenderly beautiful, because of its contrast between little peaked mountains and the
plain. It is not a grand landscape. It lacks all that makes the skirts of Alps and Apennines
sublime. Its charm is a certain mystery and repose--an undefined sense of the neighboring Adriatic,
a pervading consciousness of Venice unseen but felt from far away. From the terraces of Arqua
the eye ranges across olive-trees, laurels, and pomegranates on the southern slopes to the
misty level land that melts into the sea, with churches and tall campanili like gigantic galleys
setting sail for fairyland over "the foam of perilous seas forlorn." Let a blue-black shadow
from a thunder-cloud be cast upon this plain, and let one ray of sunlight strike a solitary
bell-tower: it burns with palest flame of rose against the steely dark, and in its slender
shaft and shell-like tint of pink all Venice is foreseen.

The village church of Arqua stands upon one of these terraces, with a full stream of clearest
water flowing by. On the little square before the church-door, where the peasants congregate
at mass-time--open to the skies with all their stars and storms, girdled by the hills, and
within hearing of the vocal stream--is Petrarch's sepulchre. Fit resting-place for what remains
to earth of such a poet's clay! It is as though archangels, flying, had carried the marble
chest and set it down here on the hill-side, to be a sign and sanctuary for after-men. A simple
rectilinear coffin, of smooth Verona mandorlato, raised on four thick columns, and closed by
a heavy cippus-cover. Without emblems, allegories, or lamenting genii, this tomb of the great
poet, the great awakener of Europe from mental lethargy, encircled by the hills beneath the
canopy of heaven, is impressive beyond the power of words. Bending here, we feel that Petrarch's
own winged thoughts and fancies, eternal and aërial, "forms more real than living man, nurslings
of immortality," have congregated to be the ever-ministering and irremovable attendants on
the shrine of one who, while he lived, was purest spirit in a veil of flesh.

ON A MOUNTAIN.

Milan is shining in sunset on those purple fields; and a score of cities flash back the last
red light, which shows each inequality and undulation of Lombardy outspread four thousand feet
beneath. Both ranges, Alps and Apennines, are clear to view; and all the silvery lakes are
over-canopied and brought into one picture by flame-litten mists. Monte Rosa lifts her crown
of peaks above a belt of clouds into light of living fire. The Mischabelhörner and the Dom
rest stationary angel-wings upon the rampart, which at this moment is the wall of heaven. The
pyramid of distant Monte Viso burns like solid amethyst far, far away. Mont Cervin beckons
to his brother, the gigantic Finsteraarhorn, across tracts of liquid ether. Bells are rising
from the villages, now wrapped in gloom, between me and the glimmering lake. A hush of evening
silence falls upon the ridges, cliffs, and forests of this billowy hill, ascending into wave-like
crests, and toppling with awful chasms over the dark waters of Lugano. It is good to be alone
here at this hour. Yet I must rise and go--passing through meadows where white lilies sleep
in silvery drifts, and asphodel is pale with spires of faintest rose, and narcissus dreams
of his own beauty, loading the air with fragrance sweet as some love-music of Mozart. These
fields want only the white figure of Persephone to make them poems; and in this twilight one
might fancy that the queen had left her throne by Pluto's side to mourn for her dead youth
among the flowers uplifted between earth and heaven. Nay, they are poems now, these fields;
with that unchanging background of history, romance, and human life--the Lombard plain, against
whose violet breadth the blossoms bend their faint heads to the evening air. Downward we hurry,
on pathways where the beeches meet, by silent farms, by meadows honey-scented, deep in dew.
The columbine stands tall and still on those green slopes of shadowy grass. The nightingale
sings now, and now is hushed again. Streams murmur through the darkness, where the growth of
trees, heavy with honeysuckle and wild rose, is thickest. Fireflies begin to flit above the
growing corn. At last the plain is reached, and all the skies are tremulous with starlight.
Alas, that we should vibrate so obscurely to these harmonies of earth and heaven! The inner
finer sense of them seems somehow unattainable--that spiritual touch of soul evoking soul from
nature, which should transfigure our dull mood of self into impersonal delight. Man needs to
be a mytho-poet at some moments, or, better still, to be a mystic steeped through half-unconsciousness
in the vast wonder of the world. Cold and untouched to poetry or piety by scenes that ought
to blend the spirit in ourselves with spirit in the world without, we can but wonder how this
phantom show of mystery and beauty will pass away from us--how soon--and we be where, see what,
use all our sensibilities on aught or naught?

SIC GENIUS.

In the picture-gallery at Modena there is a masterpiece of Dosso Dossi. The frame is old and
richly carved; and the painting, bordered by its beautiful dull gold, shines with the lustre
of an emerald. In his happy moods Dosso set color upon canvas as no other painter out of Venice
ever did; and here he is at his happiest. The picture is the portrait of a jester, dressed
in courtly clothes and with a feathered cap upon his head. He holds a lamb in his arms, and
carries the legend, Sic Genius. Behind him is a landscape of exquisite brilliancy and depth.
His face is young and handsome. Dosso has made it one most wonderful laugh. Even so perhaps
laughed Yorick. Nowhere else have I seen a laugh thus painted: not violent, not loud, although
the lips are opened to show teeth of dazzling whiteness; but fine and delicate, playing over
the whole face like a ripple sent up from the depths of the soul within? Who was he? What does
the lamb mean? How should the legend be interpreted? We cannot answer these questions. He may
have been the court-fool of Ferrara; and his genius, the spiritual essence of the man, may
have inclined him to laugh at all things. That at least is the value he now has for us. He
is the portrait of perpetual irony, the spirit of the golden sixteenth century which delicately
laughed at the whole world of thoughts and things, the quintessence of the poetry of Ariosto,
the wit of Berni, all condensed into one incarnation and immortalized by truthfullest art.
With the Gaul, the Spaniard, and the German at her gates, and in her cities, and encamped upon
her fields, Italy still laughed; and when the voice of conscience sounding through Savonarola
asked her why, she only smiled--Sic Genius.

One evening in May we rowed from Venice to Torcello, and at sunset broke bread and drank wine
together among the rank grasses just outside that ancient church. It was pleasant to sit in
the so-called chair of Attila and feel the placid stillness of the place. Then there came lounging
by a sturdy young fellow in brown country clothes, with a marvellous old wide-awake upon his
head, and across his shoulders a bunch of massive church-keys. In strange contrast to his uncouth
garb he flirted a pink Japanese fan, gracefully disposing it to cool his sun-burned olive cheeks.
This made us look at him. He was not ugly. Nay, there was something of attractive in his face--the
smooth-curved chin, the shrewd yet sleepy eyes, and finely-cut thin lips--a curious mixture
of audacity and meekness blended upon his features. Yet this impression was but the prelude
to his smile. When that first dawned, some breath of humor seeming to stir in him unbidden,
the true meaning was given to his face. Each feature helped to make a smile that was the very
soul's life of the man expressed. It broadened, showing brilliant teeth, and grew into a noiseless
laugh; and then I saw before me Dosso's jester, the type of Shakespeare's fools, the life of
that wild irony, now rude, now fine, which once delighted courts. The laughter of the whole
world and of all the centuries was silent in his face. What he said need not be repeated. The
charm was less in his words than in his personality; for Momus-philosophy lay deep in every
look and gesture of the man. The place lent itself to irony; parties of Americans and English
parsons, the former agape for any rubbishy old things, the latter learned in the lore of obsolete
church-furniture, had thronged Torcello; and now they were all gone, and the sun had set behind
the Alps, while an irreverent stranger drank his wine in Attila's chair, and nature's jester
smiled--Sic Genius.

When I slept that night I dreamed of an altar-piece in the Temple of Folly. The goddess sat
enthroned beneath a canopy hung with bells and corals. On her lap was a beautiful winged smiling
genius, who flourished two bright torches. On her left hand stood the man of Modena with his
white lamb, a new St. John. On her right stood the man of Torcello with his keys, a new St.
Peter. Both were laughing after their all-absorbent, divine, noiseless fashion; and under both
was written, Sic Genius. Are not all things, even profanity, permissible in dreams?

FOOTNOTES:

[E] The down upon their cheeks and chin was yellower than helichrysus, and their breasts gleamed
whiter far than thou, O Moon.

[F] Thy tresses have I oftentimes compared to Ceres' yellow autumn sheaves, wreathed in curled
bands around thy head.

[G] Both these and the large frescos in the choir have been chromo-lithographed by the Arundel
Society.

THE END.

    +-----------------------------------------------+
    | Transcriber's Note:                           |
    |                                               |
    | + sign denotes Greek transliteration          |
    |                                               |
    | Typographical errors corrected in text:       |
    |                                               |
    | Page  15 loggie changed to logge              |
    | Page  18 Apennine changed to Apennines        |
    | Page  21 pleasaunce changed to pleasance      |
    | Page  27 obligato changed to obbligato        |
    | Page  29 dedicate changed to dedicated        |
    | Page  37 ome changed to some                  |
    | Page  45 Heny changed to Henry                |
    | Page  47 Bernard changed to Bernardo          |
    | Page  69 led changed to del                   |
    | Page  82 beretta changed to berretta          |
    | Page  91 intensily changed to intensely       |
    | Page 111 word "a" added                       |
    | Page 128 Porsenna changed to Porsena          |
    | Page 147 loggie changed to logge              |
    | Page 149 Apeninnes changed to Apennines       |
    | Page 173 potect changed to protect            |
    | Page 173 Vernice changed to Venice            |
    | Page 178 aad changed to and                   |
    | Page 180 ruining changed to running           |
    | Page 183 Bachus changed to Bacchus            |
    | Page 192 Signiory changed to Signory          |
    | Page 224 maccaroon changed to macaroon        |
    | Page 242 wagon changed to waggon              |
    | Page 273 piazetta changed to piazzetta        |
    | Page 298 sensibilty changed to sensibility    |
    | Page 304 colorist changed to colourist        |
    | Page 309 Monistero changed to Monastero       |
    | Page 317 colorist changed to colourist        |
    |                                               |
    +-----------------------------------------------+