       *       *       *       *       *

    "The King has given Mr. William Armstrong, Director of Criminal
    Intelligence of the Shanghai Municipal Police, authority to wear
    the Insignia of the Fourth Class of the Order of the Excellent
    Crop, conferred on him by the President of the Republic of China,
    in recognition of valuable services."--Times.

We understand that extreme shortness of hair is not the hall-mark of the Chinese criminal world.

       *       *       *       *       *

]

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

KINGS AND QUEENS.

There are thirty-six of them in all, ranging from WILLIAM I., who is "severe," to VICTORIA,
who is just "good." I first made their acquaintance in childhood, when my grandmother gave
them me with the laudable object of teaching me history. Each is a little wooden block signifying
a monarch. On one side there is a portrait showing the face, collar and upper portion of torso
of the monarch in question; on the other side there is written a single word summing up his
whole character.

By means of these royal blocks I was brought up to a sound historical sense based on religion
and morality. At the age of seven I could and did boast that I knew the innermost souls of
all the monarchs of England. I could say their dates by heart, often doing so during sermon
time on Sundays, with a grace and ease that only lifelong acquaintance with royalty could have
bred. I was even able to triumph through that tricky period between the death of EDWARD III.
and the accession of ELIZABETH. I wonder if the late Lord ACTON was as learned at that age:
I am sure he could not say his dates backwards. I could.

It has always surprised those who have endeavoured to teach me history that my youthful brain
should be so strongly grounded in the historical tradition of over half a century ago. Yet
all the historians of modern England could not shake me in my faith. To me QUEEN VICTORIA was
no "panting little German widow," as our latest searcher after truth has affirmed, but the
august lady who listened entranced to the beautiful poems of Lord TENNYSON and invented electricity
and the tricycle. In consequence I was considered a counter-revolutionary, if not bourgeois.
My essays were deemed dangerously reactionary. At Oxford I once found my tutor burning one.
This shows the value the authorities attach to my work. It is too dangerous to live; it is burnt.

I venture to think, however, that my work, based as it is on the most respectable principles,
will survive long after my tutors have subsided into a permanent state of death in life. Like
SHAKSPEARE and the present Government I am for all time.

It is easy to see how I came to acquire this stability of thought, owing as I do my early training
to the kings and queens of England, who are nothing if not stable. They are my acknowledged
guardians and to them I turn in all difficulties. Only a year ago they came to my aid in a
most awkward predicament. It was my lot to fill up army forms; of what variety I cannot remember
save that they were of a jaundicy colour and connected with the men's demobilisation. On these
documents I was expected to enter, besides the usual details as to religion and connubial felicity,
the character of each man in a single word. I at once marshalled my wooden royalties before
me in chronological order and proceeded to deal with the squadron in rotation.

