A simpler and equally accurate method of taking measurements of handwriting is by the aid of
the transparent paper known as foreign letter paper. It is usually of quarto size, very thin
and transparent, and is ruled horizontally and vertically, dividing the sheet into tiny squares.
It is laid over the writing to be examined, and the various measurement marks are made with
a finely pointed lead pencil. The lines and squares are used for measurement as the parallels
of latitude and longitude are used on a chart. For example, a letter is said to be so many
lines high, so many lines wide. One of the tiny squares should be carefully divided into two,
or, if possible, four parts, so as to ensure finer and more accurate measurement. A letter
may then be measured in parts of a line, being described, for example, as, height 6-3/4 lines,
breadth 2-1/2 lines. It is of course important that the same gauge of ruled paper be used uniformly,
otherwise the measurements will vary. If the student has had practice in the use of the dividers
and scale rule, he may prefer to employ these, but the ruled paper and a finely pointed lead
pencil will be found sufficient for most purposes. A paper specially prepared for surveyors,
ruled in squares of one-eighth of an inch may be obtained. For measuring the slopes of letters
a transparent protractor is necessary. The letters measured are all topped and tailed small
letters, and all capitals having a shank. Letters like O, C, Q, S, and X can only be measured
approximately.

The method of applying the measurements of heights and angles of slope is shown in the case
illustrated by the table on page 15.

The subject of enquiry was a signature containing the letters B, l, k, b.

The measurements of these letters in the forgery are given at the top of the table, and show
the height in lines and angle of slope in degrees.

The measurements of the corresponding letters in twelve genuine signatures are shown in the
table as Examples 1 to 12.

The total is averaged by dividing by twelve.

The presumption in favour of the suspected signature being a forgery is strongly supported
by the arithmetical result.

A difference of more than 2 per cent. in angle of slope, and 3 per cent. in height may be safely
relied upon as ground for suspicion, for it is rarely that a man's signature varies so greatly
within a brief period. In the absence of the explanation provided by illness, intentional change
in style or other abnormal circumstances, such a difference as is shown in this example will
justify a belief that the suspected signature is by another hand.

 ---------+-------------------------------++-------------------------------
          |       Height in lines.        ||        Angle of slope.
          +-------+-------+-------+-------++-------+-------+-------+-------
          | B.  | l.  | k.  | b.  || B.  | l.  | k.  | b.
 ---------+-------+-------+-------+-------++-------+-------+-------+-------
 Forgery  | 7     | 7     | 6     | 7-1/4 || 15    | 20    | 21    | 21
 ---------+-------+-------+-------+-------++-------+-------+-------+-------
 Example 1| 7-1/4 | 6-1/2 | 5-1/2 | 7-1/2 || 16    | 22    | 21    | 20
          |       |       |       |       ||       |       |       |
    "    2| 7-1/4 | 6-1/4 | 6     | 7-1/4 || 17    | 21    | 20    | 20
          |       |       |       |       ||       |       |       |
    "    3| 7-1/4 | 6     | 5-3/4 | 7-3/4 || 16    | 21    | 20    | 21
          |       |       |       |       ||       |       |       |
    "    4| 7     | 6-1/4 | 5-3/4 | 7-1/2 || 16    | 21    | 20    | 21
          |       |       |       |       ||       |       |       |
    "    5| 7     | 6-3/4 | 5-3/4 | 7-1/2 || 17    | 22    | 21    | 20
          |       |       |       |       ||       |       |       |
    "    6| 7-1/2 | 6-3/4 | 5     | 7-1/2 || 16    | 21    | 20    | 21
          |       |       |       |       ||       |       |       |
    "    7| 7-1/2 | 6     | 6     | 7-1/4 || 17    | 20    | 21    | 21
          |       |       |       |       ||       |       |       |
    "

TERMINOLOGY.

In order to render the description of a writing perfectly clear, a system of terminology is
adopted which is invariable. That is, the same terms are always employed in indicating the
same parts of a letter. These are simple, and for the most part self-explanatory, so that no
effort is required to commit them to memory.

Every part of a letter has a distinctive name, so that it would be possible to reproduce a
script character very closely by a verbal description.

The following are the terms used in describing a letter:--

Letter means the whole of any script character, capital or small. For the sake of brevity in
notes and reports capital is written Cp.; small, Sm.

Arc.--An arc is the curve formed inside the top loop or curve, as in f, m, h, o. In o, the
inside top half of the letter is the arc; the inside bottom half is the hook.

Buckle.--The buckle is the separate stroke added to such letters as k, f, and capitals A, F, H.

Beard.--The beard is the preliminary stroke that often appears in capital letters.

Body.--The body of a letter is that portion of it which rests on the line and could be contained
in a small circle. For example, in a small d the body consists of the circle and the final
upward curve or toe. In a small g the body is the circle minus the tail.

Eye is the small circle formed by the continuation of a stroke as in the shoulder r.

Finals.--A final is the finishing stroke not carried beyond the shank in capitals, and in a
few smalls like y, g, z.

Foot.--The foot of a letter is that portion of it that rests on the line. Small m has three
feet, h has two, etc.

Hook.--The hook is the inside of a bottom curve. It is the opposite of the arc.

Link.--The link is that portion of the stroke which connects two letters.

Broken link.--A broken link is a disconnection in the link joining two letters.

Loop.--A loop is that portion of a letter which forms the top or tail. Unlooped tops and tails
are called "barred." For example, small f has two loops, top and bottom; f, h, l have one top
loop; g, y, z have one bottom loop.

Shank.--The shank of a letter is the principal long downstroke that forms the backbone.

Shoulder.--The shoulder is the outside of the top of the curve as seen in small m, n, o, h.
Small m has three shoulders, n two, h one.

Spur.--The spur is to the small letter what the beard is to the capital. It is the initial stroke.

Tick.--A tick is a small stroke generally at the beginning of a letter, sometimes at the end.

Toe.--The toe is the concluding upward stroke of a letter, as seen in small e, n, h, &c.

Whirl.--The whirl is the upstroke in all looped letters. It is a continuation of the spur in
b, h, f, l, and is always an upstroke.

CHAPTER IV.

CLASSES OF HANDWRITING.

For convenience in differentiation, handwritings are divided into the following classes. Practically
every type of writing can be placed in one of them.

Vertical Hand.--A vertical hand is one in which the tops and tails of letters form as nearly
as possible a perpendicular with the horizontal line. The best example of this class of handwriting
is that known as the Civil Service hand, familiar to the general public through telegrams and
official documents.

Back Hand is a hand in which the general slope of the characters is from right to left.

Italian Hand is the reverse of a back hand, the slope being at an acute angle from left to
right. It is a style fast going out of fashion, and is almost invariably the handwriting used
by elderly ladies. Its most pronounced characteristic is its sharp angles and absence of curves.

Open Hand.--An open hand is one that generally approximates to the vertical, its distinguishing
feature being the wide space between the letters. The best example of it is that known as the
Cusack style of writing.

Closed Hand.--A closed hand is the opposite of an open hand, the letters being crowded together
and generally long and narrow, with the slope from left to right.

Greek Hand.--This is the name given to a type of writing that closely approximates to the printed
character. Many letters, both capital and small, are formed to imitate print, particularly
the capitals T, X, Y, R, B, D, and the smalls e, f, g, h, j, k, p, r, t, v, w, x, y, z. It
is a hand frequently found in the writings of classical scholars, literary men engaged in work
entailing careful research, and often is an evidence of short sight.

The Wavy Hand is generally vertical. Its characteristic is an undulating serpentine waviness.
Little or no distinction is made between barred or looped letters. There are no rounded shoulders
to the m and n and the word minnie would be written by five small u's. In round-bodied letters
like a, d, g, the circle is rarely completed, but is left open, so that small a becomes u,
and small d may be mistaken for it, with the i undotted and t uncrossed. Despite its geometrical
and caligraphic inaccuracy in detail, this hand is generally written with great regularity,
that is, the characters, though incomplete, are always uniform in their irregularity. The e
is never open, but is an undotted i, and n is u, but when the peculiarities of the writer become
familiar this hand is often very legible.

Flat Hand.--A flat hand is a type of handwriting in which the characters have an oblate or
flattened appearance, the o, a, g, &c., being horizontal ovals, like the minim and breve in
music. The tails and tops are generally short, with wide loops. It is nearly always a vertical
hand.

An Eccentric Hand is one that presents various marked peculiarities and departures from standard
rules in the formation of certain letters, and cannot be placed in any recognised class, though
it may approximate to one more than to another.

The Round or Clerical Hand is a writing that preserves a close affinity for the round regular
hand of the average school-boy, with the difference that while the characters are formed on
regular copybook model, the hand is written with considerable fluency and firmness. It is generally
only a little out of the perpendicular, sloping slightly towards the right.

CHAPTER V.

HOW TO EXAMINE A WRITING.

The examination of a writing generally consists in making a careful comparison between it and
another or others, the object being to determine whether all are by the same hand.

The writing which is in a known hand or as to the authorship of which there is no doubt, is
usually called the Original, and is always referred to by this name. The writing which has
to be compared with it, and which practically forms the subject of the enquiry, is called the
Suspect. The Suspects should be marked A, B, C, D, &c., and put away without examination until
the Original has been thoroughly mastered. This is more important than may appear at first
sight, for the confusing effect of having the two types of writing in the eye and mind before
one type is made familiar is highly prejudicial. Any inclination to look at the Suspects first
should be firmly resisted.

Let us assume that the object of the examination is to discover the writer of an anonymous
letter--one of the most frequent tasks of the handwriting expert. The material in hand is the
anonymous letter, which in such a case may be called the Original, and half-a-dozen specimens
of the writing of suspected persons. These Suspects are numbered from 1 to 6, or marked A,
B, C, &c., and put aside until the Original has been thoroughly studied.

The first thing is to examine the paper and envelope, noting its quality, watermark, size,
and any feature that may afford a clue. It is always safe to presume that the paper is in every
respect unlike that commonly used by the writer, just as it is equally safe to take it for
granted that the writing it contains will, so far as its general appearance goes, be the reverse
of the normal hand of the author. That is, if it be a heavy back hand, the writer probably
uses a hand approximating to the Italian, though too much weight must not be attached to this
theory.

Next, note the general style of the document as a whole, whether the margin between top, bottom,
and sides is large or small. A writer who habitually begins at the top left-hand corner very
near to the edge of the paper will often betray himself by repeating the habit. It is a very
common sign of an economical disposition. Note whether he crowds his words and letters near
the ends of lines or leaves a good margin. Clerks and those engaged in official work rarely
crowd their final words, preferring rather to leave a wide space and go on to the next line.

Note whether the hyphen is used to divide words. Many writers never divide a word, others do
it frequently, with or without the hyphen.

Measure the average distance between lines, if unruled paper be used, and make a note of the
average distance.

Measure the distance between words and strike an average, noting if words are connected without
lifting the pen. It may be found that this joining is only done when certain letters form the
final of the first word joined and the initial of the word connected. Look carefully for such.

Note particularly the slope of the topped and tailed letters.

Note the punctuation, whether frequent and accurate or otherwise.

Determine the class to which the writing belongs.

Read the document carefully, noting any peculiarities of language, errors, or Americanisms
in spelling, such as "favor" for "favour," "color" for "colour," &c.; the substitution of "z"
for "s" in such words as "advertise," &c. Examine with the glass any words that may have been
crossed out or rewritten, noting particularly letters that have been mended or touched up.

Note whether the horizontal lines have a tendency to slope up or down.

Note particularly letters with two or more feet, like a, d, h, k, m, n, &c. It will be found
that a certain regularity in formation exists in most writings. If the a be formed like an
o, the toe not touching the line, or an n with the second foot high up like a bearded r, these
peculiarities should be carefully noted. Some writers go to the other extreme, and carry the
second foot below the line, so that a becomes a small q. Too much time cannot be devoted to
this aspect of handwriting, as it presents features of which the writer is probably quite unconscious,
and, therefore, affords valuable evidence.

Next study the topped and tailed letters, noting whether they are looped or barred, that is,
formed by a single stroke. It will be often found that certain letters are always looped, others
barred. Take careful note of such. If both barred and looped letters appear to be used indiscriminately,
count and average them. In any case, a characteristic will be revealed. Examine and classify
the loops. Note whether they are long or short, rounded or angular, wide or narrow. Devote
special attention to the arc, shoulder and hook. Note, also, any difference of thickness between
the up and down stroke; test the degree of clearness and sharpness of stroke by means of the
glass, and carefully look for the serrated or ragged edge, which will assist in determining
the angle at which the pen is held.

CHAPTER VI.

THE ALPHABET IN DETAIL.

If the instructions so far given have been acted upon, the student will have familiarised himself
with the general character of the writing under examination. He should now proceed with a detailed
examination of each letter, beginning with the smalls, and taking them in alphabetical order.

Take a sheet of tracing paper and trace each small a, letting them follow each other on the
line, with about a quarter inch of space between each letter. During the process of tracing,
the eye must be on the alert for peculiarities, notably the roundness or otherwise of the circle
as a whole, the curve or angle of the arc and hook, the relative position of the toe. Note
the shank, whether looped or barred, whether the top of it is above or below the body of the
circle, whether it is vertical or sloping from right or left. Having compared all the a's,
count them, and decide which form most frequently recurs. This may be taken as the normal a
of the writer.

The following are the principal points to be considered in examining succeeding letters.

b.--Note the spur, its length, how far up the shank it meets it; whether the shank is barred
or looped; the character of the loop. Note particularly the toe, which also forms the link.
This is a very significant hand-gesture. It may be low down, making the b literally li, or
it may be a horizontal bar, an angle, or a neat semicircle. Its formation offers large scope
for variation, and should be very carefully studied. Compare the toe with the corresponding
stroke in f, o, v, w. Note whether it is joined with an eye, and observe its average distance
from the bottom on base line.

c.--This letter, when an initial, is frequently begun with a spur, often with a dot or tick.
When connected with a preceding letter, the link may make the c into an e. It is sometimes
disconnected from the preceding letter. Note whether this is characteristic.

d.--Apply the same tests as in examining small a, noting whether the shank is barred or looped.

e.--Examine the spur in initials; closely observe the loop. Look for any recurrence of the
Greek ε. Examine and compare the specimens given in the examples. Many writers have a habit
of forming an e as an i and adding the loop. Look out for this with assistance of the glass.

f.--This is an important letter, giving scope for numerous varieties of form. Examine and classify
the loops, noting which is the longer--the top or bottom; whether one or both are barred. The
eye and toe are pregnant with material for observation. Examine the various forms of this letter
given in the examples.

g.--Like the preceding letter, this one has many varieties of form, and will repay careful study.

h.--The characteristic portion of this letter is the hook forming its body. Note how it is
joined to the shank--whether it starts from the line or high up; whether the shoulder is rounded
or angular, whether the foot touches the line or remains above it; whether the shank is looped
or barred.

i.--This is an important letter because of the dot, which is made mechanically. After noting
whether the shank is spurred as an initial, special attention must be devoted to the dot. Dots
are of various forms. They may be a wedge-shaped stroke sloping in any direction, a horizontal
dash, a tiny circle or semicircle, a small v, or a perfect dot. Examine them all through the
glass, and compare them with the comma, which often partakes of the same character as the dot.
Note also its relative position to the shank, whether vertical, to the right or left, and its
average height and distance from the shank. Much may be learned from a careful examination
of the dot, and its every variation and characteristic should be most carefully noted and classified.

j is important for the same reason that makes the i significant. There are several forms of
it, but the dotting offers the most valuable evidence.

k.--This is the most significant and valuable of the small letters, as it offers scope for
so much originality and irregularity in its formation. The characteristic features of the small
k lie mainly in the body. Few writers form a k alike. Although it may belong to the same class,
the number of variations that can be rung on the body is surprisingly large, ranging from the
regulation copybook model to the eccentric patterns shown in the examples. Special attention
should be devoted to the eye and buckle, for it is at this junction of the two strokes forming
the body that most writers exhibit their peculiarities.

l.--The same principles of examination apply to this letter as to the small e. Note carefully
the character of the loop and examine the position of the spur.

m and n offer ample material for examination. As an initial the first stroke is sometimes exaggerated,
approximating the letter to the capital M or N. Note the formation of the shoulders and their
relative heights and width; also, by means of a line touching the tops of the shoulders, note
carefully and compare the last shoulder with the first. This letter presents great extremes
in formation. The shoulders may be high and well rounded, or even horizontal, or they may be
sharp angles, turning the m into in, and the n into u. Note the distance between the shanks
and observe whether it is uniform.

o.--This letter owes its main importance to its connecting link. Note whether it is carried
low down, making the letter like an a, whether it is joined to the body by an eye, and if the
toe is curved or angular. Note, also, the general conformation of the circular body and compare
the toe with that in b, f, v, and w.

p.--There are several forms of this letter, and a writer who affects one of them generally
repeats it often. The shank may be barred or looped, wholly or in part, especially when used
as an initial. The body generally offers ample material for examination.

q is also a letter with which great liberties are taken, and is the subject of several variations.
Some writers make no distinction between g and q, and the final stroke often supplies the main
characteristic of this letter.

r.--This important letter has two forms--the square, or eyed, and the hooked. Many variants
are employed in forming it, as the specimens in the examples show. Many writers unconsciously
form a habit of using both r's, but with a certain degree of system. For example, one may use
the hook r always as a final, and the eyed r as an initial. The formation of the eye should
be specially studied, with the shoulder, which may be formed as a semicircle, an arc, a straight
bar or an angular v. The hooked r is equally rich in varying forms, and the letter forms an
interesting study.

s.--This is a letter of such frequent recurrence in the English language that it not unnaturally
has become the subject of a variety of forms, and this despite the fact that its regulation
shape is exceedingly simple and rudimentary. The majority of writers have one favourite form
of the letter, which, like the k, becomes characteristic.

t.--This letter is important because of its frequent recurrence, and on account of the variations
of form, the bar or crossing being the most fruitful in material for observation. There are
two usual forms of the t, the hooked and crossed, and the barred, and they are equally valuable
and characteristic. The crossing of a hooked t, like the dotting of an i, is so mechanical
an act that it often reveals important evidence. The cross stroke when closely examined will
be found to present many variations. It may be a fine horizontal line, a curve, a heavy short
dash; it may be ticked or dotted at either end or both--in short, there is scarcely an end
to the numerous forms this important hand-gesture may assume. Then its relative position to
the shank tells much. It may be high up, not touching the shank; low down, neatly struck at
right angles to the shank, or it may be omitted altogether. In some circumstances a t is crossed,
in others left uncrossed; for example, the t at the beginning of a word may be invariably uncrossed,
but the final t never. These are the peculiarities and characteristics the student has to keep
a watchful eye for. The other form of the t is known as the bar t. It is generally uncrossed,
and often the buckle is an important feature. A careful examination of the examples will suggest
the lines on which the analysis of the letter t should be conducted and at the same time reveal
the richness of material at the disposal of the student.

u.--Note whether the two shanks are uniform, whether the letter is spurred as an initial. Average
the distance between the shanks, and observe the conformation of the hook, whether rounded
or v-shaped.

v.--The important feature of this letter is the toe. Its formation must be carefully noted
as in f, o, hooked r and w.

w.--Apply the same test as to u and v. Note the uniformity or otherwise of the shanks and hooks,
and study the varied forms given in the examples.

x.--This letter lends itself to tricks and variations, and few letters depart more from the
orthodox copybook form in actual practice, as is shown in the examples.

y.--Note the spur and its relative position to the shank. Note the tail and its average length.

z.--This letter offers good material for study and the detection of mannerisms. Its body is
the most significant part, as it is capable of so many variations. It may be angular or well
curved; the eye may be large or exaggerated or merely suggested. Like k and x, the form once
adopted by a writer is not usually departed from to any great extent.

CHAPTER VII.

THE CAPITALS.

Owing to their large size and more complex form the capital letters offer much more material
for tests than the smalls. They yield more scope for tricks and eccentricity, though, at the
same time, their extra prominence, and the clearness with which their outlines strike the eye
of the writer render it more likely that he will detect glaring departures from the orthodox
model. In other words, a writer would probably pay more attention to accuracy in forming, and
particularly in copying, a capital than a small letter. This is generally found to be the case
in signature forgeries, the capitals being, as a rule, much nearer the original than the small
letters. But there is this great advantage in favour of the student in examining capitals--the
strokes being more expansive supply a larger field and material for examination. For example,
a ragged or diamond stroke in a much flourished capital like M, W, R or B would be more apparent
than the same kind of stroke in a small letter.

There is no need to take the capital letters seriatim, as was the case with the smalls, for
the same principles and rules for examination apply in both cases. The same care is necessary
in examining the arcs, hooks and shoulders of loops, with their general conformation. The angle
of slope is more noticeable in capitals, and they reveal the characteristics of the writer
more than small letters. Persons who profess to delineate character from handwriting always
pay great attention to the capitals, doubtless with good reason, and as the result of long
experience.

An examination will show that about ten capitals can be formed with two disconnected strokes.
They are A, B, F, H, K, P, Q, R, T and X. These are known as double capitals. These doubles
should be carefully looked for, and the frequency, or otherwise, of their recurrence noted,
as it is probable they will be found to be nearly always used under the same circumstances;
that is, a writer may have a habit of beginning with a double capital when possible, but revert
to the single form of the same letter in the body of the writing. Another writer will almost
invariably disconnect the capitals from the rest of the word, while a third as regularly connects
them. Some writers affect the more simple form, approximating to the printed character. Others
again indulge in inordinate flourishes, particularly in their signatures. Such writers prove
easy prey to the forger.

A feature very easy of detection in capitals is the "diamond." It is formed by a sudden thickening
of the downstroke. It is particularly noticeable in the writing of those who have been instructed
in the old-fashioned school, where a distinction between the heavy downstroke and the light
upstroke was insisted upon. The diamond habit once formed is very difficult to eradicate, and
traces of it always remain in the writing of persons thus taught.

An important and significant part of a capital letter is the beard. It is an automatic trick,
and always repays careful examination. It may be a spurred, ticked or dotted beard, but in
any case the initial stroke must be carefully examined, whatever form it may assume, for the
oft-emphasized reason that it belongs so essentially to the clue-providing class of unguarded
and unpremeditated automatic strokes that are overlooked by the writer.

Variations in the form of a capital must be noted, and a record kept, for, however great the
variety, it will be found that one particular form is more used than another, and may be regarded
as the normal type of the writer.

A peculiarity of some writers is the use of an enlarged form of the small letter for a capital.
The letters so made to serve a double purpose are generally A, C, E, G, M, N, O, P, Q, S, U,
V and W. They are referred to as small capitals.

CHAPTER VIII.

PUNCTUATION.

The ampersand (&) is a symbol that provides excellent material for clues to tricks and mannerisms.
It varies in form from a mere v-shaped tick of almost indeterminate character to an ornate
thing of loops and flourishes. It is very sparingly employed by illiterate persons, and some
educated writers avoid its use under the impression that, like the abbreviation of words, it
is vulgar. In a few high-class ladies' schools its use is sternly repressed, and there are
many fluent and habitual writers who never employ this sign. This in itself supplies a useful
clue to characterisation. Others, again, only employ it in such combinations as "& Co.," "&c.,"
though this latter abbreviation is, as often as not, written "etc." by many persons.

The dash (--) occurs very largely in many writings, and particularly in those of ladies, who
regard it as a universal punctuation mark, and employ it indiscriminately as comma and full
stop. Many persons of both sexes invariably make a dash below the address on an envelope, using
it as a kind of final flourish. A close examination of the samples provided in such a writing
will reveal many valuable idiosyncrasies. It may be a bold, firm horizontal line, a curve with
a tick at either end, or both; a wavy line or even an upward or downward line. Note, also,
the ragged edge, as it affords an important clue to the style of holding the pen. The dash
is so essentially an unpremeditated and mechanically-formed hand-gesture that it often betrays
more of the character of the writer than any other letter. Cases have been known in which the
writer of an anonymous letter has successfully concealed all his characteristics, but in putting
the final stroke in the form of a dash he has so far forgotten himself as to produce, quite
unconsciously, what was probably one of his most pronounced hand-gestures, thus providing a
clue which led to ultimate conviction.

