Moreover, we find one of the most characteristic features of Assyrian architecture occurring
in this Armenian monument. The entrance is flanked by lions similar to those which guard the
temples at Nimroud.[489] The other features of the composition are quite new to us. In front
of the temple two large vases are supported on tripods, of bronze no doubt. They contained
the water required for purifications; we shall encounter them again in Syria. They remind us
of the "molten sea" of Solomon's temple. The temple stands upon a high plinth, to which access
must have been given by steps omitted by the sculptor. At each side of the door stands a lance-headed
pole, indicating, perhaps, that the temple was dedicated to a god of war. In front of these
lances stand two people in attitudes of adoration; statues, perhaps, or figures in relief.
The façade is formed of pilasters divided horizontally by narrow bands; upon these pilasters,
and on the wall between them, hang shields or targets, that accord well with the lances flanking
the entrance. From two of the pilasters on the left of the doorway lions' heads and shoulders
seem to issue; these, too, may be taken as symbolical of the bellicose disposition of the god
to whom the building was dedicated. The pediment with which the façade is crowned is rather
low in its proportions. Its tympanum is filled with a kind of reticulated ornament made up
of small lozenges or meshes. There is nothing to throw light upon the internal arrangements,
but by the aid of this carved sketch the façade may be easily restored, save, of course, in
the matter of size, at which we can only guess.

The type is chiefly interesting on account of its analogy with the Greek temple. We have already
drawn attention to similar points of likeness in the small buildings in which the column plays
such an important part (Figs. 41 and 42). We have seen that some of those little structures
resemble the Egyptian temples, others the Greek temple in antis.[490] For the sake of completeness
we may also mention the pavilion we find so often in the Chaldæan monuments (Fig. 79). It is
crowned with the horned mitre we are accustomed to see upon the heads of the winged bulls.
Our interest has been awakened in these little chapels chiefly on account of the decorative
forms of which they afford such early examples. It is not to them that we must look for the
distinctive features of Mesopotamian temple architecture. These we must find in the staged
tower or zigguratt. Why is it that the whole of those monuments, with the single exception
of the so-called Observatory of Khorsabad, are now mere heaps of formless dust, fulfilling
to the letter the biblical prophecies as to the fate of Nineveh and Babylon? One traveller
tells us how when he approached the Birs-Nimroud he saw wolves stretched upon its slopes and
basking in the sun. Before they would lazily rise and make up their minds to decamp, the Arabs
of his escort had to ride forward shouting and shaking their lances.

NOTES:

[484] See PLACE, Ninive, vol. i. pp. 149-151, and vol. ii. pp. 6-7, and 36-42. This building
is at the western angle of the area occupied by the Khorsabad ruins (vol. iii. plate 3). The
restoration will be found in the plate numbered 37 bis.

[485] Discoveries, &c., pp. 348-357, 359-362; and Monuments, &c., second series, plate 5.

[486] This is now in the British Museum.--ED.

[487] The doors are so arranged that in neither temple can the naos be seen by one standing
outside the building.--ED.

[488] This expedition took place in the eighth year of Sargon's reign. The passage in which
the chief events are recounted, will be found in the long and important inscription translated
by M. OPPERT, under the title: Annales de Sargon (PLACE, Ninive, vol. ii. p. 313).

[489] The sculptor has only introduced one; the other he has left for the imagination of the
spectator to fill in.

[490] Page 142.

§ 4.--Comparison between the Chaldæan Temple and that of Egypt.

Although the ancients called them both by the same name, there are more points of difference
than of resemblance between the Egyptian pyramids and the staged towers of Chaldæa. On the
borders of the Nile we have the true pyramid, the solid which bears that name in geometry.
In Mesopotamia we have a series of rectangular prisms placed one upon the other. At a distance
the gradual diminution of their size may give a pyramidal appearance to the mass of which they
form a part, but their walls are vertical. Finally the contrast between the purposes of the
two buildings is still greater. The Egyptian pyramid is a tomb; its enormous mass is no more
than a monstrous development of the stone envelope to which the sarcophagus was committed.
No means were provided for reaching the summit, and its height had, so to speak, no raison
d'être or practical utility. In spite of all the art lavished upon it a pyramid was hardly
a building in the proper sense of the word--it was a mere heap of building materials.

It was quite otherwise with the zigguratt, whose terminal platform supported a richly-decorated
sanctuary. Astronomers could make use of it for observing the heavens under better conditions
than were possible below; chapels were also cut in the flanks of its lower stages, so that
a convenient means of approach to every story from top to bottom was absolutely required. This
necessity brought in its train the varied arrangements of ramp and terrace of which we have
endeavoured to give an idea in our restorations. If we give rein to our imagination and allow
it for a moment to restore their crenellated parapets to the ramps and terraces; if we set
up the resting-places, rebuild the chapels and pavilions and replace the statues; if we cover
the sanctuary with its vesture of bronze and gold, and the whole edifice with the surface decoration
to which the sun of Mesopotamia gave its fullest value, we shall then understand how far superior,
as an architectonic conception, the Chaldæan zigguratt was to the Egyptian pyramid. With its
smooth and naked face the latter was in some degree an inorganic mass, as lifeless as the corpse
it crushed with its preposterous weight. The division of the former into stages had a latent
rhythm that was strongly attractive; the eye followed with no little pleasure the winding slope
which, by its easy gradient, seemed to invite the traveller to mount to the lofty summit, where,
in the extent and beauty of the view he would find so rich a reward for the gentle fatigues
of the ascent.

But we must not forget that the zigguratt was a temple, and that it is to the temples of Thebes
that we must compare it. In such a comparison Egypt regains all its superiority. How cold and
poor a show the towers of Chaldæa and Assyria make beside the colonnades of the Ramesseum,
of Luxor, of Karnak! In the one case the only possible varieties are those caused by changes
in the position and proportions of the stages, in the slope and arrangement of the ramps. In
the other, what infinite combinations of courts, pylons, and porticoes, what an ever changing
play of light, shadow, and form among the groves of pictured columns! What a contrast between
the Assyrian sanctuaries lighted only from the door and by the yellow glare of torches, and
the mysterious twilight of the Egyptian halls, where the deep shadows were broken here and
there by some wandering ray of sunshine shooting downwards from holes contrived in the solid
roof, and making some brilliant picture of Ptah or Amen stand out against the surrounding gloom.
But the Chaldæans might, perhaps would, have equalled the Egyptians had their country been
as rich in stone as the Nile valley; their taste and instinct for grandeur was no less, and
the religious sentiment was as lively and exalted with the worshippers of Assur and Marduk
as with those of Osiris and Amen-Ra. The inferiority of their religious architecture was due
to the natural formation of their country, which restricted them almost entirely to the use
of a fictile material.

END OF VOL. I.

LONDON:

R. CLAY, SONS, AND TAYLOR,

BREAD STREET HILL, E.C.