If those among our young friends who are alive to the charms of nature will arrange some specimens
of trees on the plan we have explained, and label the sheets with the common names of the trees,
and the scientific names also, if they can find them out from their parents, we will be glad
to hear from them, and will publish their letters in the Post-office Box, so that they can
make exchanges with each other.

Very little folks, who may find it too hard to get the bark and the blossoms, can begin by
making collections simply of the leaves. Be careful to cut the sheets exactly of the size we
have mentioned, so that when laid together they will make a nice even pile like a book. And,
remember, don't send them to us; only write, and let the Post-office Box know when you have
them ready for exchange. We will publish the fact in the YOUNG PEOPLE, so that you can send
the specimens to each other, and make up the collections among yourselves.

FRANK GETS PROMOTED.

Frank Austin's duties as supercargo were soon over, and he decided to go ashore and look about
him. The moment he was seen looking over the side, a clamor arose from the Chinese boats around
the steamer, which reminded him of the chorus of monkeys and parrots at Gibraltar.

"Good boatee, my--no upset!"

"Fast sampan--no can catchee!"

"He good, my better!"

"Come see--here allee best sampan!"

Frank was confounded by the uproar, and not less so by observing that all the boatmen, and
boat-women too (for there were plenty of the latter), seemed to be exactly alike, so that if
he picked one, and happened to lose him, it would be no joke to find him again. As he stood
hesitating, a good-looking Chinese girl hailed him from a neat little boat with a staring red
eye painted on side of its bow.

"Hi! say! My namee Whampoa Sam; washee, keepee state-loom, row boat, can do all for two bob
[fifty cents]. Come tly!"

Such a list of accomplishments was not to be resisted, and Austin at once took his seat under
the stern awning. The young woman spread her sail, and turned the boat shoreward, steering
it with an immense oar.

Away they went, past huge high-pooped junks that looked like monster rocking-chairs; past stately
English steamers, beside which the little painted sampans seemed mere toys; past big clumsy
rice barges, and trim gigs pulled by sturdy Western sailors. While threading her way through
this maze of shipping as dexterously as any seaman, the girl found time to answer Frank's eager
questions upon all that he saw, down to the staring eyes on the bow of her boat, which, as
she explained, were meant to "help boatee see go straight, allee same man's eye." The mystery
of her masculine name, which had puzzled Austin not a little, was also cleared up.

"My Whampoa Sam wife; Sam up Canton side now--can catchee more piecee dollar there. My row
boatee till come back. Work boatee, my, allee same man. Choy! you no b'lieve? Bime-by pickaninny
Sam row boatee too, muchee ploper. Look see!"

She pushed aside a plank, and hauled out of a box underneath it a little round-faced "four-year-old,"
so like a big doll that Frank almost took him for one, till he saw the child grasp the steering
oar in his little pudgy hands, and actually steer the boat to shore.

"Well," thought our hero, "the Chinese may well be good boatmen, if they begin as early as that."

But he afterward learned that on the great Chinese rivers thousands of families live altogether
in boats, each of which has an allotted place of its own. In Canton alone these floating streets
have a population of 300,000, and it is common to see two-year-old children toddling about
with small wooden buoys on their backs, fixed there by their careful mothers in case they should
fall overboard, which they do, on an average, three or four times a day.

For several hundred feet around the great stone quay extended a perfect army of Chinese boats,
clustering together like bees; but Mrs. Sam soon made her way through them, and Austin leaped
ashore. He had hardly done so when a crowd of sturdy natives surrounded him, with ear-piercing
screams, asking if he wished to "ride in chair." This being a new idea, he accepted at once,
and presently found himself being carried off in a sedan-chair by four sinewy fellows, who
went at a long swinging trot, like the "palanquin hamals" of British India.

Six more runners were speedily added, for the way now led up a street made entirely of stairs,
like the "Hundred-and-one Steps" at Constantinople. Then out into the open country, and away
toward the summit of Victoria Peak. Up, up, they went, poor Frank getting so bumped about that
he was sorely tempted to get out and walk; but he reached the top at last, and saw the whole
town, the harbor, and miles upon miles of the inland country out-spread below him like a map.
The trip, when paid for, proved wonderfully cheap, though the reason given for this made Frank
feel rather "cheap" himself:

"Large piecee man, two bob; small piecee man, like you, one bob. All right--chin-chin!"

During his rambles through the town Austin saw many curious sights. He was shown through a
native bank, where three Chinese "tellers" were standing ankle-deep in gold, and counting so
rapidly that the ring of the coins sounded like one continuous chime. In another place a house
was being built from the roof downward, and he was told that "rain come, walls muchee hurt,
so put up roof first!"

Having now reached the farthest point of his voyage, Frank began to think about getting home
again, and finding that all who had shipped on the Arizona were entitled, by the terms of their
agreement, to a free passage in the next homeward-bound steamer, he went down to the company's
office to get his ticket.

As he passed the open window a familiar voice from within caught his ear. It was that of his
Captain, who was having a talk with the company's agent.

"I really don't know whom to send with this cargo," said the agent. "It must go in a day or
two, and none of my clerks can be spared. Do you know of anybody, Gray?"

"Well, there's a young fellow who came out with me, that might do. He's rather young, certainly,
but I put him in charge at Singapore, and he did very well. Hello! there he is. Austin!"

Frank entered, cap in hand.

"My lad," said the Captain, "we're sending a cargo of tin and opium to Canton, and you might
take it up, unless you'd rather go home."

"I was thinking of going, sir," said Austin; "but if you have anything for me to do till I
can get letters from home, I shall be very glad to do it."

"All right, my boy. Just look in here to-morrow morning, and we'll arrange it."

The next morning, sure enough, Frank received his appointment, and set sail up the river for
Canton a few days later, with a handful of the Arizona's picked men for his crew, and old Herrick
as his second in command--the latter remarking, with a grin, that "'twarn't a bad start for
a youngster to begin his first v'y'ge as coal-heaver, and end it as Cap'n."

       *       *       *       *       *

Our hero's farther adventures in China--how he succeeded so well with his first cargo as to
be at once intrusted with a second--how he received letters from home, reporting all well--how
he studied the ins and outs of the "up-country" trade, and the ways of the Chinese, finding
both very different from what he had imagined--and how he soon got a good appointment in the
office, which he held for several years--would make too long a story to be told here. But he
always bore in mind the last words of old Herrick, which were:

"Frank, my son, next time you meet a young feller wantin' to run away to sea, jist you tell
him you've tried it yourself, and 'tain't so nice as it looks. If a lad goes to sea 'cause
he's fit for it, and ain't 'fraid o' hard work, well and good; but if he goes 'cause he's quarrelled
with his bread and butter, all along o' stuffin' his head with dime novels and sich like rubbish,
I guess he'll end where you began--in the coal-hole. Now don't you forget them words o' mine."
And Frank never did.

THE END.

SETTING THE BROOK TO WORK.

BY WILLIAM O. STODDARD.

The brook had never done a stroke of work in its life. So long, at least, as Mart Benson could
remember, it had gurgled across the foot of his father's garden, tumbling heels over head down
the little fall in the middle, as if it knew it had got into some place that didn't belong
to it, and was in a desperate hurry to get out.

Then it made a dive under the fence, into Squire Spencer's orchard, and then under another
fence, and through a low stone archway across the river road.

That was the end of the brook, for the river let it right in without so much as saying, "How
do you do?"

"It isn't more'n two feet across anywhere," said Mart to himself. "It isn't so much as that
just above the fall, and it's a foot and a half below the top of the bank. I could make a dam
there, and a flume."

Mart was a great whittler.

Mr. Jellicombe, the carpenter, used to say of him that when he wasn't whittling, it was because
he had had to stop to sharpen his knife.

"Well," said Mart, in reply to that, "what's the fun of whittling with a dull knife? If you
want a knife to cut straight and smooth, you've got to have an edge on it."

So there was always a pretty good edge on his, and it was curious what things he managed to
carve out with it.

He had made a wooden chain out of a long square stick that Mr. Jellicombe brought to the house
to mend a door frame with. He had made kites, walking-sticks, bats, wooden spoons and forks,
a little wagon, and any number of other things, of which about all that could be said was that
they gave him plenty of good whittling.

But Mart had been to the mill the day before, and had waited there two hours while his father
was having a grist of corn ground. All those two hours had been spent by Mart with a shingle
in one hand and his knife in the other, but at the end of them there was hardly a notch in
the shingle, and Mart shut up his knife, and put it back in his pocket.

He had been watching the great water-wheel and the flume that brought the water to it from
the pond. He had studied the dam, too, and had been thinking of the brook in his father's garden.

The more he looked at it now, the clearer he saw that it was high time for that brook to be
doing something.

It was easy enough to gather flat stones and pile them in at the narrow place at the top of
the fall. That was little more than a foot high, to be sure, but the dam would more than double it.

Then he begged a couple of old raisin boxes at the store where his father traded, and when
the ends were knocked out of them, and they were firmly set in the top of the little dam, one
behind the other, they made a good enough flume. The end of the foremost one stuck out beyond
the stones, and the water came pouring from it beautifully.

It took all the rest of that day for Mart to get the brook penned in and compelled to run through
the raisin boxes, for he had to keep on putting stones and sods and dirt behind the dam to
strengthen it, as the water rose higher and higher. It would not do to make a pond of the garden,
but so long as the brook did not overflow its banks it would do no harm. Sometimes it had run
over in the spring, or after very heavy rain-storms.

The next day Mart hardly went near his new dam, and he was a very serious and busy boy indeed,
considering that he was only thirteen.

A piece of wood had to be found first two and a half inches square, and about a foot and a
half long. It took a great deal of work to shave down the four corners of that piece of wood
till it had eight smooth sides all just alike. Then Mart was compelled to go over to Jellicombe's
carpenter shop and put his piece of wood in a vise, so it would be held steady, while he took
a saw and sawed a long groove, more than half an inch deep, in the middle of each one of those
eight faces. Jellicombe told him he had done that job very well.

"Looks like a hub for something. Going to make a wheel this time?"

"I'll show you. May I take your inch auger and bore a hole in each end?"

"Go ahead. If you ain't kerful, you'll split yer timber."

Mart was careful then, but he had trouble before him. He had picked out a number of very straight
shingles, and he was whittling away on these now as if he was being paid for it. He cut them
down to six inches long, and shaved them at the sides, so that two pieces laid together were
just a foot wide. With a little more whittling after that he fitted them all, one by one, into
the eight grooves in his "hub," and his "water-wheel" was done. A proud boy was Mart, but he
ought to have kept on being "careful."

"Look out!" said Mr. Jellicombe, as Mart rapped hard on one of the shingle pieces, to drive
it in more firmly; but it was too late.

"Crack!" the hub was split from end to end.

"Got to go to work and make a new one," said Mart, ruefully.

"Guess I wouldn't. Just take a couple of two-inch screws, and screw that together again. It'll
be stronger'n it was before."

That was a capital idea, and it only took a few minutes; to carry it into effect.

"Make your end pins of hard wood," said Mr. Jellicombe; "and shave 'em smooth. Then they'll
run easy."'

That was easy enough, but one of those "endpins" was made of an old broom handle, and was more
than a foot long.

"I see what you're up to," said the carpenter, with a grin. "You've made a right down good
job of it, too. Grease your journals before you let 'em get wet."

Mart's "journals" for his end pins to run in were two holes he bored in a couple of boards.
When these were stuck up on each side of the lower end of his flume, and the water-wheel was
set in its place, Mart took off his hat and shouted,

"Hurrah! the brook's at work!"

So it was, for it was rushing fiercely through the two old raisin boxes, and down upon the
wide "paddles" of Mart's wheel, and this was spinning around at a tremendous rate.

"You've done it!"

"Is that you, Mr. Jellicombe? I didn't know you'd come."

"You've done it. Now what?"

"Why, I'm going to put another wheel on this long end pin, and set another one above it, and
put a strap over both of them."

"Oh, that's it. Going to make a pulley and band. All right. It'll run. There's plenty of water-power.
But what then? Going to build a mill?"

"Guess not. All I care for is, I've set the brook to work."

"Why don't you make it do something, then, now you've found out how?"

"Don't know of anything small enough for a brook like that."

"I'll tell you, then. There's your mother's big churn, that goes with a crank. You whittle
out a wheel twice as large as that, and set it a little stronger, and raise your dam a few
inches, and you can run that churn."

"Hurrah! I'll do it!"

There was a good deal of busy whittling before Mart finished that second job, but before two
weeks were over there was butter on Mrs. Benson's dinner table which had actually been churned
by the brook at the bottom of the garden.

HOW THE SECRET WAS STOLEN.

Benjamin Huntsman, a native of Lincolnshire, England, was the inventor of cast steel. The discovery
was kept a great secret, and as the success it obtained was very great, many efforts were made
to find out how it was prepared. When cool, the mould was unscrewed, and a bar of cast steel
was presented.

The uninvited spectator of these operations effected his escape without detection, and before
many months had passed the Huntsman manufactory was not the only one where cast steel was produced.

A JOLLY DAY IN THE PARK.

BY F. E. FRYATT.

"Hip, hip, hurrah! to-morrow's my birthday, Miss Eleanor," shouted Harry Lewis, bursting into
my garden like a young hurricane. "Cousin Jack's coming over from New York, Nell's got a holiday,
and father says if you'll decide and go with us, we may have a jollification somewhere."

"How delightful! Of course I'll go, with the greatest pleasure. Suppose we choose Prospect Park?"

"Capital! Miss Eleanor, good-by; excuse haste. I'm off to tell Nell, and hurry mother with
the birthday cake and the fixin's."

Old Prob predicted fair weather, and he was as good as his word, for the sun shone in the bluest
of skies, and the morning was fresh and breezy, when Nell and I stepped into an open car, followed
by Harry, Jack, and the family lunch basket.

Every one looked happy, and even the car horses trotted briskly along the broad avenue to the
Plaza as if they knew we were anxious to be there.

Arrived at the Park, the two boys put their wise heads together, and gallantly agreed that
I should be captain of the party, a decision they shortly after announced in an important manner.

"Follow your leader, then," said I, helping Nell into one of the large phaetons standing near
the entrance.

"All right," responded Harry, as the whip cracked, and away dashed the horses in fine style.

Now we swept past velvety fields and wood-crowned hills; now we rolled softly under arches
of tremulous green; then through miniature valleys between blossoming heights; now through
shadowy forests, and away again beside open meadows.

"How lovely!" cried Nell, rapturously, as one moment we caught the glitter of a distant lake,
the next the twinkle of a reedy pool overhung with hazel and alder bushes.

Even the boys were stirred to delight, when, crossing a rustic bridge, they could look down
and see a dashing cascade tumble and foam over mossy precipices, till it reached a stony basin
below, where it lay golden and clear as a topaz.

On and on we sped, past new wonders of blossoming groves and ferny hollows, to the end of our ride.

Which way to turn, after we left our basket at the Lodge, we knew not. Labyrinthine walks met
us in every direction, leading to bowers and dells and wildernesses innumerable.

"Let us take the nearest," said I; and away we went, tripping it gayly, till the path ended
unexpectedly at the loveliest bower imaginable, all hidden with clambering vines and shrubbery,
from which peeped out a thatched roof, with two odd little peaks, surrounded by bird-houses.

Past its pretty arches, as we sat on the rustic seats, we could look upon acres of velvety
meadow, dotted with wild flowers, and gay with groups of pleasure-seekers.

Near by, Madam Nurse trundled Miss Baby; yonder, a company of girls played at "bean bags";
further on, the croquet-players were busy with mallets and balls; while passing to and fro
were troops of school-children making the most of their weekly holiday.

"Listen!" cried Nell, suddenly, as sounds of music were borne to us on the breeze.

"It's 'Nancy Lee'; go for it!" shouted Harry, leaping over the railing, and darting across
the meadow.

"Come on; follow the sound, girls," cried Jack, bounding after him.

Nell and I take the path sedately, "hastening slowly," for we can not help stopping to listen
to the soft twitter of the birds, to admire the golden laburnums; we even wait to let a sparrow
hop leisurely down the walk before us.

We have had time to spare, for when we arrive in sight of the "merry-go-round" in its pretty
pavilion, the musical history of Nancy Lee is still being repeated.

But a pretty vision greets us. Whirl, whirl, whirl, flies a magic ring of boys and girls, with
their fluttering ribbons, bright eyes, and tossing curls.

Click, click, clash a score of shining blades, as the eager riders, with parted lips, lean
forward and try to pick off the rings from a projecting bar.

Now the music begins to die away; the circle moves slower, and slower, and slower.

"Count your rings!" shouts the man in charge. "The biggest number wins the free ride."

"Sixteen, eighteen, twenty," calls out Harry, triumphantly, adding, as he spies Nellie, "There's
my sister; give her a ride."

Nothing loath, Nell is strapped on a gray pony, and waits impatiently for the music. The seats
fill, the organ sounds forth, "I'm called Little Buttercup," and away they float as light as
feathers.

"It is well they're so merry," groans the poor horse beneath them in the cellar, as he treads
his weary beat; "they'd find it a sad-go-round if we changed places."

The noon hour strikes; the merry-go-round man is mortal, and wants his dinner, which reminds
us that it is time to send for the lunch basket.

Choosing a lovely spot under a spreading elm in the meadow, we lay the cloth, set out our luncheon,
brew a pitcher of fine lemonade, and sit down, the merriest of merry parties.

In the midst of our entertainment four uninvited but welcome visitors make their appearance.
Guess who they are.

A toad came first, and sat blinking at us with the funniest airs imaginable. Then a robin-redbreast
and two sparrows edged their way up to our table with great caution, winked at us with bright
eyes, concluded we were trustworthy, and ventured to peck at the crumbs we scattered for them.

Gathering up the remnants of our feast, we wended our way to a pretty summer-house overlooking
a small lake, in which sported a multitude of gold-fish, a pair of swans, some geese, and a
bevy of ducks with lovely rings of red, purple, and gold-green feathers about their necks.

Here Nell and the boys found fine sport throwing crackers into the water, and watching the
ducks and fishes rush for them, but came away in high disgust because one old drake gave the
ducks and fishes hardly any chance at all, but darted and dived and bobbed about so fast that
he grabbed a dozen pieces to their one.

"Good-by, old greedy; hope you'll never come up again!" cried Jack, moving away, as the nimble
fellow dove head-first till nothing but his funny tail flirted above the water.

A peep at the deer, pony-rides for the boys, and a drive in the goat-carriage for Nell, varied
our ramble to the Aerial Skating Rink, which we found on the other side of the Park.

As we came in sight of the elevated square of asphalt pavement, with its gay cavalcade of skaters
flitting to and fro inside the railings, the boys hurrahed with delight.

"It's perfectly glorious; let's try it," shouted Harry, bounding down the hill-side, followed
closely by Jack.

"I could do that too," said Nell, imitating the movements of the skaters.

"You shall try," replied I; and a minute later we were inside the square, bargaining for a
lesson on the odd three-wheeled triangular arrangement, with its horse's head and handled reins.

"Plant your feet firmly on this brace," said the instructor, showing Nell the iron bar; "hold
the reins well in hand, bend your right knee, and strike out with your foot as if skating;
now your left; and away you go."

Sure enough, off shot Nell, managing to keep up a tolerable speed, then slacking, then increasing,
then coming to a dead halt, as Jack, shouting, "Clear the track!" bore down on her car, almost
upsetting it.

"A miss is as good as a mile," screams Harry, flying by on the other side, with flushed cheeks
and sparkling eyes.

"Strike out, little girl!" cries a lad, giving Nell's car a push, and sending her speeding
along. In and out, around and about, they fly, like mimic charioteers, until, fairly exhausted,
they are willing to stop, and go over to the Rotary Yacht, whose snow-white wings are visible
from the hill-top.

A pleasant walk across the sloping meadow and along by the side of a small lake brings us to
this novel boat, which is merely a great hollow ring of seats, with oars and rowlocks for calm,
and sails for breezy, weather.

We step in and sit down; the wind, coming in soft puffs from the south, sends us floating around
and around with a dreamy, restful motion that our tired little charioteers thoroughly appreciate
as they lean back and trail their hands idly through the cool water.

"Come, come," said I at last, "wake up for our row on the lake, sleepers, and then heigho for
home and supper!"

"I was only fooling, Miss Eleanor; I'm fresh as a lark," cried Harry, leaping nimbly out on
the platform.

"So am I," said Jack, lending a hand to Nellie.

"The Rotary Yacht will do for a rest, but this is what I call life," exclaimed Harry, as later
he and Jack, with even sweep of the oars, sent our pretty boat skimming over the waters of
the lake.

Now we sped around curving shores, and past grassy capes; now we skirted fairy islands and
reedy shallows; then under hollow bridges, that gave back jolly echoes to Nell's laughter and
the dip of the oars.

"Quick, quick--quick, quick," screamed a bevy of ducks, hurrying to shore, as we rounded a
woody bend in the lake, and came upon them with a rush that sent the water in diamond showers
over their backs.

"Tirra-la, tirra-la," whistled a wood-thrush in the grove; "tirra-la, tirra-la," answered another.

"Ah! that's a warning, children; he sings at sunset. See the light shooting gold green through
the trees; that means that our happy day is over. And there's another sign; look over your
right shoulder--the new moon."

"Tu-whit, tu-whoo, good-night to you," hooted an owl, as we turned our boat homeward.

"Don't be alarmed; we are going," sighed Harry, half sad that the jolly day at Prospect Park
was ended.

A BATTLE ON THE BUFFALO RANGE.

Between the half-breeds who form a large portion of the population of the settlements of the
Northwest, along the Red River of the North, and their neighbors, the Sioux, exists a bitter
enmity. Peace is seldom declared between them, and when parties of Sioux and half-breeds meet,
bloody battles are the result.

Although the half-breeds are more civilized than the Indians, and live in villages, generally
near the forts or trading posts, they depend largely upon buffalo-meat for their winter food,
and upon buffalo-robes, for which the traders give them guns, powder, shot, blankets, tea,
coffee, sugar, and other necessaries and luxuries of their life. To obtain this meat and these
robes they organize grand buffalo hunts every summer and fall, each of which lasts for several
months, and in which hundreds of men engage. The hunters travel from their homes to the distant
hunting grounds on horseback; but they take with them long trains of very curious-looking ox-carts,
in which the women and children, who go with their husbands and fathers on these long trips,
ride, and in which the buffalo-meat and hides are carried home.

The ox-carts, or "Pembina buggies," as they are often called, are very strong and clumsy, and
are made entirely of wood, generally by their owners. The wooden wheels, turning on the ungreased
wooden axles, make the most horrible creaking and groaning; and when, as is often the case,
several hundred or a thousand of these carts are in one train, the noise they make can be heard
for miles.

Each cart is drawn by a single ox, attached to the rude shafts by a simple and home-made harness
of rawhide, with the aid of which the patient beast draws a load of a thousand pounds for hundreds
of miles, at the rate of twenty or thirty miles a day.

As they approach the buffalo range, where they expect to find their game, the hunters know
that at any moment they may run across hunting parties of the Sioux, and for them they keep
a sharp look-out night and day.

Some years ago a brave hunter by the name of Jean Bedell, whose home was in Pembina, joined
one of these great hunting parties, taking with him his wife and their little child, a baby
of but a few months old. The party to which Jean belonged was so large that they had but little
fear of Indians, and did not guard against being surprised by them as carefully as usual.

One morning as the brigade broke camp, and the long line of carts moved slowly away toward
Devil's Lake, which could be seen gleaming in the distance, and near which the hunters felt
sure they would find buffalo, Jean Bedell found that a portion of his harness had given out,
and he must stay behind and mend it. He had just finished his task, and started on after the
carts, the groaning and screeching of which could still be heard in the distance, when other
and more terrible sounds, borne clearly to his ear, caused him to come to a sudden halt.

The sounds that so startled him were quick shots, almost as steady as volleys of musketry,
and the terrible yell with which the Sioux charges upon his enemy. Far down the valley the
hunter could see sharp flashes of fire pierce the cloud of dust that hung over the train of
ox-carts, and the dark mass of Sioux warriors charging down the hill-side, lashing their ponies,
firing and yelling as they went.

Alone, and cut off from his companions, with his wife and baby to protect, Jean Bedell had
nothing to do but lie down, with his trusty rifle in hand, powder and bullets by his side,
and wait, determined to sell his life as dearly as possible if worst came to worst.

For hours the hunter watched the fight, while his wife crouched in the bottom of the cart,
with her baby in her arms. He could see that the carts had been formed in a semicircle, and
from behind them his comrades withstood charge after charge of the Indians, who would dash
up to the barrier of heavy carts, pour in a volley, and sweep away beyond rifle range, until
their own guns were reloaded.

At last, late in the afternoon, the battle came to an end. The Indians, finding it impossible
to drive the hunters from behind their barrier, suddenly withdrew, and taking their dead with
them, disappeared over the hill down which they had dashed in the morning. They might make
another attack, but for the present all was safe, and Jean Bedell might rejoin his friends.
When he reached them, he found that though they were rejoiced to have driven off the hated
Sioux, their joy was mingled with much sorrow, for there were many dead to be buried, and many
wounded to be cared for. Among the dead were several of the little children, to whom stray
bullets had found their way; and when Jean Bedell and his wife saw the poor little bodies,
they were very thankful that, on account of a broken harness, their own darling baby had been
kept at a safe distance from the terrible battle.

I have said that the work which President Washington had to do was quite new to the country.
The people had been used to having all their affairs attended to in their own States. None
of the States was very large. Some of them were very small, compared with what the States are
now, so that the public men in each were known by a greater part of the people than they now
are. Then distance seemed greater than it does now. It took nearly as long to go from Boston
to New York as it now does to go from Boston to California; there was no telegraph any more
than there were railways and steam-boats, and news travelled as slowly as men did themselves.
You can see that it was harder for people in Georgia or New Hampshire to know what was going
on in New York than it is now for people in Oregon or Florida to know what is being done in
Washington. Where there is ignorance there is always more distrust and doubt. Men found it
not easy to give up public business to a Congress, far away, that they did not know much about.
Washington set himself earnestly at work to try and have things done so carefully, so honestly,
and so wisely, that the people would learn to trust the national government, and live happily
under it.

The national government had been meant especially to do three things: First, to raise money
and pay the debts of all the States; second, to see that the country was rightly dealt with
by other countries, and that other countries were justly treated by our own; and third, in
a general way to do for the common good what no one State could do by itself.

The government has now for nearly a hundred years done this work very well, and that fact is
largely due to the way George Washington began it. He was President for eight years.

It would not be easy to tell all the things he did in that time which have had a good effect
ever since, but it will be well to remember a few of the principal ones. He always insisted
on the full and honest payment of the public debt, that is, of money borrowed by the government
to carry on the war, and so forth. He believed that a nation must keep its word as much as
a man must, if it expects other people to deal fairly with it.

In order that the government might pay its debts, it was necessary for it to get money from
the people by taxes, and President Washington showed very early that no man or set of men were
to be allowed to refuse to pay a fair share of these taxes, as fixed by law.

The people chose the Congress, and the Congress decided how the taxes should be paid. When
that was done, there must be no further dispute about paying. If the people did not like the
laws Congress made, they could elect men to Congress who would change the laws, but until the
laws were changed in this way, they must be obeyed.

A large number of persons in the State of Pennsylvania refused to pay a tax ordered by Congress,
called an excise tax, which was a certain sum on every barrel of whiskey made in the country.
When Washington learned of this, he sent word to these people that if they did not obey the
laws, he should have to compel them to; and as they took no notice of this warning, he got
together an army of 16,000 men, and sent it into the State. This soon settled the trouble,
and there has never been any attempt, on a large scale, to resist a tax law in the United States
since then.

It is easy to see that Washington knew better than to do such a thing by halves. He sent so
large an army that to fight against it was hopeless, and so there was no fighting.

It would have been well for the country if this wise example had always been followed.

[TO BE CONTINUED.]

THE CHILD SINGER.

BY LAURA FITCH.

In a narrow dirty street in the most miserable part of the great city of London, a group of
children were playing beside the gutter. They were all dirty and ragged, and the faces of many
were old and worldly-wise. One little girl, however, though her dress was as torn and soiled
as that of any of the other dwellers in the filthy street, had a pretty childish face. She
was a bright-looking little one, with matted brown hair hanging in tangled curls that had never
known a brush, and a pair of sweet dark eyes looking out trustfully into the uninviting world
around her. She stood a little apart from the others, leaning against the doorway of a rickety
tenement-house, humming softly to herself.

A rough-looking boy in the group by the gutter, hearing her low tones, called out, "Louder,
Nell; sing something."

The child obeyed; with her hands clasped, and her eyes fastened on the speck of blue sky to
be seen between the roofs of the tall, smoky houses, she burst into a song. No wonder that
the other children stopped their noisy play, and listened. It was not their ignorance of music
that made the singing seem beautiful to those little street vagabonds. There was in the clear
voice of the child singer a strange, wistful tone, of which she herself was unconscious, but
which held the listener spell-bound.

Nell had been born and bred in those low surroundings. She had never seen the inside of a church,
or heard other music than the whining tones of a street organ, yet there was in her the very
soul of music. She lived in a wretched garret, with a dirty, slouchy woman whom she called
aunt, and loved as only a child or a woman can love one from whom she receives no sign of affection.
Miserable as such a life was, it might have been worse.

One day Nell's aunt was brought home on a shutter; she had been run over by a carriage, and
instantly killed.

Now Nell was indeed destitute; no money, and no friends but her rough neighbors. But these,
though rough, were not hard-hearted; they would have given her money, but they had none themselves,
except what they earned or stole each day. So they told her, if she wanted her aunt buried
properly, she must go out at night and sing, in which way she would very likely earn enough,
as people would pity so young a child.

So that night poor little Nell set out on her work of love. She walked till she reached the
broad streets and handsome houses that form the London which the world knows. Here she sang.
In the clear silent night the childish voice rang out, and the hour and the stillness made
its wistful tones sound wild and weird. Up one street and down another the little figure went
singing, while its heart seemed breaking. A strange excitement bore her up, and she felt no
fatigue.

Her pathetic appeal was not in vain; it seemed to touch the hearts, and, what is more difficult,
the pockets, of all who heard her. When midnight came, she thought of stopping only because
most of the houses had closed for the night, and there was little more to be obtained. So she
took her last stand in front of a fine old house in Kensington Square, in whose windows lights
were still burning. It was the home of Barech, the great musician. As the tones of Nell's voice
broke on the stillness of the night, he paused in the work he was doing, and after a moment
rose and threw open the window. With amazement he saw the little childish figure standing in
the light of the street lamp, and while his artist's ear drank in the wonderful tones with
delight, his fatherly heart filled with pity for the desolate child. When Nell ceased, he called
to her, and descending, opened the door and took her in.

From that moment Nell was no longer destitute, no longer friendless. In Barech she had found
a friend who never deserted her. Captivated by her voice, he took the little waif into his
heart and home, and thenceforth she was protected, cared for, and educated. And he was amply
rewarded when, in after-years, the fame of Helen Barech spread over England. No one then ever
dreamed that the great singer began her career years ago, one dark night, under the stars,
a little outcast singing for money to bury her dead.

"HE'S MY FRIEND."--A TRUE STORY.

BY AUNT FANNY.

Charley was the son of a young, rich, and beautiful widow, who lived in one of the splendid
up-town hotels of New York city. His mother was a very busy woman, for she was a manager of
the "Children's Retreat," the "Children's Relief," the "Old Ladies' Mitigation Society," and
ever so many other charities, and these took up so much of her time that her own poor little
half-orphaned Charley was left pretty much to himself; for Lizzie, his nurse, spent most of
her time laughing and talking with the other servants.

So Charley amused himself running up and down the stairs, and taking trips with the elevator
man, who was very fond of the bright little fellow.

