Such is the sun-picture, in the form in which we now most commonly meet it,--for the daguerreotype,
perfect and cheap as it is, and admirably adapted for miniatures, has almost disappeared from
the field of landscape, still life, architecture, and genre painting, to make room for the
photograph. Mr. Whipple tells us that even now he takes a much greater number of miniature
portraits on metal than on paper; and yet, except occasionally a statue, it is rare to see
anything besides a portrait shown in a daguerreotype. But the greatest number of sun-pictures
we see are the photographs which are intended to be looked at with the aid of the instrument
we are next to describe, and to the stimulus of which the recent vast extension of photographic
copies of Nature and Art is mainly owing.

3. THE STEREOSCOPE.--This instrument was invented by Professor Wheatstone, and first described
by him in 1838. It was only a year after this that M. Daguerre made known his discovery in
Paris; and almost at the same time Mr. Fox Talbot sent his communication to the Royal Society,
giving an account of his method of obtaining pictures on paper by the action of light. Iodine
was discovered in 1811, bromine in 1826, chloroform in 1831, gun-cotton, from which collodion
is made, in 1846, the electro-plating process about the same time with photography; "all things,
great and small, working together to produce what seemed at first as delightful, but as fabulous,
as Aladdin's ring, which is now as little suggestive of surprise as our daily bread."

A stereoscope is an instrument which makes surfaces look solid. All pictures in which perspective
and light and shade are properly managed, have more or less of the effect of solidity; but
by this instrument that effect is so heightened as to produce an appearance of reality which
cheats the senses with its seeming truth.

There is good reason to believe that the appreciation of solidity by the eye is purely a matter
of education. The famous case of a young man who underwent the operation of couching for cataract,
related by Cheselden, and a similar one reported in the Appendix to Müller's Physiology, go
to prove that everything is seen only as a superficial extension, until the other senses have
taught the eye to recognize depth, or the third dimension, which gives solidity, by converging
outlines, distribution of light and shade, change of size, and of the texture of surfaces.
Cheselden's patient thought "all objects whatever touched his eyes, as what he felt did his
skin." The patient whose case is reported by Müller could not tell the form of a cube held
obliquely before his eye from that of a flat piece of pasteboard presenting the same outline.
Each of these patients saw only with one eye,--the other being destroyed, in one case, and
not restored to sight until long after the first, in the other case. In two months' time Cheselden's
patient had learned to know solids; in fact, he argued so logically from light and shade and
perspective that he felt of pictures, expecting to find reliefs and depressions, and was surprised
to discover that they were flat surfaces. If these patients had suddenly recovered the sight
of both eyes, they would probably have learned to recognize solids more easily and speedily.

We can commonly tell whether an object is solid, readily enough with one eye, but still better
with two eyes, and sometimes only by using both. If we look at a square piece of ivory with
one eye alone, we cannot tell whether it is a scale of veneer, or the side of a cube, or the
base of a pyramid, or the end of a prism. But if we now open the other eye, we shall see one
or more of its sides, if it have any, and then know it to be a solid, and what kind of a solid.

We see something with the second eye which we did not see with the first; in other words, the
two eyes see different pictures of the same thing, for the obvious reason that they look from
points two or three inches apart. By means of these two different views of an object, the mind,
as it were, feels round it and gets an idea of its solidity. We clasp an object with our eyes,
as with our arms, or with our hands, or with our thumb and finger, and then we know it to be
something more than a surface. This, of course, is an illustration of the fact, rather than
an explanation of its mechanism.

Though, as we have seen, the two eyes look on two different pictures, we perceive but one picture.
The two have run together and become blended in a third, which shows us everything we see in
each. But, in order that they should so run together, both the eye and the brain must be in
a natural state. Push one eye a little inward with the forefinger, and the image is doubled,
or at least confused. Only certain parts of the two retinae work harmoniously together, and
you have disturbed their natural relations. Again, take two or three glasses more than temperance
permits, and you see double; the eyes are right enough, probably, but the brain is in trouble,
and does not report their telegraphic messages correctly. These exceptions illustrate the every-day
truth, that, when we are in right condition, our two eyes see two somewhat different pictures,
which our perception combines to form one picture, representing objects in all their dimensions,
and not merely as surfaces.

Now, if we can get two artificial pictures of any given object, one as we should see it with
the right eye, the other as we should see it with the left eye, and then, looking at the right
picture, and that only, with the right eye, and at the left picture, and that only, with the
left eye, contrive some way of making these pictures run together as we have seen our two views
of a natural object do, we shall get the sense of solidity that natural objects give us. The
arrangement which effects it will be a stereoscope, according to our definition of that instrument.
How shall we attain these two ends?

1. An artist can draw an object as he sees it, looking at it only with his right eye. Then
he can draw a second view of the same object as he sees it with his left eye. It will not be
hard to draw a cube or an octahedron in this way; indeed, the first stereoscopic figures were
pairs of outlines, right and left, of solid bodies, thus drawn. But the minute details of a
portrait, a group, or a landscape, all so nearly alike to the two eyes, yet not identical in
each picture of our natural double view, would defy any human skill to reproduce them exactly.
And just here comes in the photograph to meet the difficulty. A first picture of an object
is taken,--then the instrument is moved a couple of inches or a little more, the distance between
the human eyes, and a second picture is taken. Better than this, two pictures are taken at
once in a double camera.

We were just now stereographed, ourselves, at a moment's warning, as if we were fugitives from
justice. A skeleton shape, of about a man's height, its head covered with a black veil, glided
across the floor, faced us, lifted its veil, and took a preliminary look. When we had grown
sufficiently rigid in our attitude of studied ease, and got our umbrella into a position of
thoughtful carelessness, and put our features with much effort into an unconstrained aspect
of cheerfulness tempered with dignity, of manly firmness blended with womanly sensibility,
of courtesy, as much as to imply,--"You honor me, Sir," toned or sized, as one may say, with
something of the self-assertion of a human soul which reflects proudly, "I am superior to all
this,"--when, I say, we were all right, the spectral Mokanna dropped his long veil, and his
waiting-slave put a sensitive tablet under its folds. The veil was then again lifted, and the
two great glassy eyes stared at us once more for some thirty seconds. The veil then dropped
again; but in the mean time, the shrouded sorcerer had stolen our double image; we were immortal.
Posterity might thenceforth inspect us, (if not otherwise engaged,) not as a surface only,
but in all our dimensions as an undisputed solid man of Boston.

2. We have now obtained the double-eyed or twin pictures, or STEREOGRAPH, if we may coin a
name. But the pictures are two, and we want to slide them into each other, so to speak, as
in natural vision, that we may see them as one. How shall we make one picture out of two, the
corresponding parts of which are separated by a distance of two or three inches?

We can do this in two ways. First, by squinting as we look at them. But this is tedious, painful,
and to some impossible, or at least very difficult. We shall find it much easier to look through
a couple of glasses that squint for us. If at the same time they magnify the two pictures,
we gain just so much in the distinctness of the picture, which, if the figures on the slide
are small, is a great advantage. One of the easiest ways of accomplishing this double purpose
is to cut a convex lens through the middle, grind the curves of the two halves down to straight
lines, and join them by their thin edges. This is a squinting magnifier, and if arranged so
that with its right half we see the right picture on the slide, and with its left half the
left picture, it squints them both inward so that they run together and form a single picture.

Such are the stereoscope and the photograph, by the aid of which form is henceforth to make
itself seen through the world of intelligence, as thought has long made itself heard by means
of the art of printing. The morphotype, or form-print, must hereafter take its place by the
side of the logotype, or word-print. The stereograph, as we have called the double picture
designed for the stereoscope, is to be the card of introduction to make all mankind acquaintances.

The first effect of looking at a good photograph through the stereoscope is a surprise such
as no painting ever produced. The mind feels its way into the very depths of the picture. The
scraggy branches of a tree in the foreground run out at us as if they would scratch our eyes
out. The elbow of a figure stands forth so as to make us almost uncomfortable. Then there is
such a frightful amount of detail, that we have the same sense of infinite complexity which
Nature gives us. A painter shows us masses; the stereoscopic figure spares us nothing,--all
must be there, every stick, straw, scratch, as faithfully as the dome of St. Peter's, or the
summit of Mont Blanc, or the ever-moving stillness of Niagara. The sun is no respecter of persons
or of things.

This is one infinite charm of the photographic delineation. Theoretically, a perfect photograph
is absolutely inexhaustible. In a picture you can find nothing which the artist has not seen
before you; but in a perfect photograph there will be as many beauties lurking, unobserved,
as there are flowers that blush unseen in forests and meadows. It is a mistake to suppose one
knows a stereoscopic picture when he has studied it a hundred times by the aid of the best
of our common instruments. Do we know all that there is in a landscape by looking out at it
from our parlor-windows? In one of the glass stereoscopic views of Table Rock, two figures,
so minute as to be mere objects of comparison with the surrounding vastness, may be seen standing
side by side. Look at the two faces with a strong magnifier, and you could identify their owners,
if you met them in a court of law.

Many persons suppose that they are looking on miniatures of the objects represented, when they
see them in the stereoscope. They will be surprised to be told that they see most objects as
large as they appear in Nature. A few simple experiments will show how what we see in ordinary
vision is modified in our perceptions by what we think we see. We made a sham stereoscope,
the other day, with no glasses, and an opening in the place where the pictures belong, about
the size of one of the common stereoscopic pictures. Through this we got a very ample view
of the town of Cambridge, including Mount Auburn and the Colleges, in a single field of vision.
We do not recognize how minute distant objects really look to us, without something to bring
the fact home to our conceptions. A man does not deceive us as to his real size when we see
him at the distance of the length of Cambridge Bridge. But hold a common black pin before the
eyes at the distance of distinct vision, and one-twentieth of its length, nearest the point,
is enough to cover him so that he cannot be seen. The head of the same pin will cover one of
the Cambridge horse-cars at the same distance, and conceal the tower of Mount Auburn, as seen
from Boston.

We are near enough to an edifice to see it well, when we can easily read an inscription upon
it. The stereoscopic views of the arches of Constantine and of Titus give not only every letter
of the old inscriptions, but render the grain of the stone itself. On the pediment of the Pantheon
may be read, not only the words traced by Agrippa, but a rough inscription above it, scratched
or hacked into the stone by some wanton hand during an insurrectionary tumult.

This distinctness of the lesser details of a building or a landscape often gives us incidental
truths which interest us more than the central object of the picture. Here is Alloway Kirk,
in the churchyard of which you may read a real story by the side of the ruin that tells of
more romantic fiction. There stands the stone "Erected by James Russell, seedsman, Ayr, in
memory of his children,"--three little boys, James, and Thomas, and John, all snatched away
from him in the space of three successive summer-days, and lying under the matted grass in
the shadow of the old witch-haunted walls. It was Burns's Alloway Kirk we paid for, and we
find we have bought a share in the griefs of James Russell, seedsman; for is not the stone
that tells this blinding sorrow of real life the true centre of the picture, and not the roofless
pile which reminds us of an idle legend?

We have often found these incidental glimpses of life and death running away with us from the
main object the picture was meant to delineate. The more evidently accidental their introduction,
the more trivial they are in themselves, the more they take hold of the imagination. It is
common to find an object in one of the twin pictures which we miss in the other; the person
or the vehicle having moved in the interval of taking the two photographs. There is before
us a view of the Pool of David at Hebron, in which a shadowy figure appears at the water's
edge, in the right-hand farther corner of the right-hand picture only. This muffled shape stealing
silently into the solemn scene has already written a hundred biographies in our imagination.
In the lovely glass stereograph of the Lake of Brienz, on the left-hand side, a vaguely hinted
female figure stands by the margin of the fair water; on the other side of the picture she
is not seen. This is life; we seem to see her come and go. All the longings, passions, experiences,
possibilities of womanhood animate that gliding shadow which has flitted through our consciousness,
nameless, dateless, featureless, yet more profoundly real than the sharpest of portraits traced
by a human hand. Here is the Fountain of the Ogre, at Berne. In the right picture two women
are chatting, with arms akimbo, over its basin; before the plate for the left picture is got
ready, "one shall be taken and the other left"; look! on the left side there is but one woman,
and you may see the blur where the other is melting into thin air as she fades forever from
your eyes.

Oh, infinite volumes of poems that I treasure in this small library of glass and pasteboard!
I creep over the vast features of Rameses, on the face of his rock-hewn Nubian temple; I scale
the huge mountain-crystal that calls itself the Pyramid of Cheops. I pace the length of the
three Titanic stones of the wall of Baalbee,--mightiest masses of quarried rock that man has
lifted into the air; and then I dive into some mass of foliage with my microscope, and trace
the veinings of a leaf so delicately wrought in the painting not made with hands, that I can
almost see its down and the green aphis that sucks its juices. I look into the eyes of the
caged tiger, and on the scaly train of the crocodile, stretched on the sands of the river that
has mirrored a hundred dynasties. I stroll through Rhenish vineyards, I sit under Roman arches,
I walk the streets of once buried cities, I look into the chasms of Alpine glaciers, and on
the rush of wasteful cataracts. I pass, in a moment, from the banks of the Charles to the ford
of the Jordan, and leave my outward frame in the arm-chair at my table, while in spirit I am
looking down upon Jerusalem from the Mount of Olives.

"Give me the full tide of life at Charing Cross," said Dr. Johnson. Here is Charing Cross,
but without the full tide of life. A perpetual stream of figures leaves no definite shapes
upon the picture. But on one side of this stereoscopic doublet a little London "gent" is leaning
pensively against a post; on the other side he is seen sitting at the foot of the next post;--what
is the matter with the little "gent"?

The very things which an artist would leave out, or render imperfectly, the photograph takes
infinite care with, and so makes its illusions perfect. What is the picture of a drum without
the marks on its head where the beating of the sticks has darkened the parchment? In three
pictures of the Ann Hathaway Cottage, before us,--the most perfect, perhaps, of all the paper
stereographs we have seen,--the door at the farther end of the cottage is open, and we see
the marks left by the rubbing of hands and shoulders as the good people came through the entry,
or leaned against it, or felt for the latch. It is not impossible that scales from the epidermis
of the trembling hand of Ann Hathaway's young suitor, Will Shakspeare, are still adherent about
the old latch and door, and that they contribute to the stains we see in our picture.

Among the accidents of life, as delineated in the stereograph, there is one that rarely fails
in any extended view which shows us the details of streets and buildings. There may be neither
man nor beast nor vehicle to be seen. You may be looking down on a place in such a way that
none of the ordinary marks of its being actually inhabited show themselves. But in the rawest
Western settlement and the oldest Eastern city, in the midst of the shanties at Pike's Peak
and stretching across the court-yards as you look into them from above the clay-plastered roofs
of Damascus, wherever man lives with any of the decencies of civilization, you will find the
clothes-line. It may be a fence, (in Ireland,)--it may be a tree, (if the Irish license is
still allowed us,)--but clothes-drying, or a place to dry clothes on, the stereoscopic photograph
insists on finding, wherever it gives us a group of houses. This is the city of Berne. How
it brings the people who sleep under that roof before us to see their sheets drying on that
fence! and how real it makes the men in that house to look at their shirts hanging, arms down,
from yonder line!

The reader will, perhaps, thank us for a few hints as to the choice of stereoscopes and stereoscopic
pictures. The only way to be sure of getting a good instrument is to try a number of them,
but it may be well to know which are worth trying. Those made with achromatic glasses may be
as much better as they are dearer, but we have not been able to satisfy ourselves of the fact.
We do not commonly find any trouble from chromatic aberration (or false color in the image).
It is an excellent thing to have the glasses adjust by pulling out and pushing in, either by
the hand, or, more conveniently, by a screw. The large instruments, holding twenty-five slides,
are best adapted to the use of those who wish to show their views often to friends; the owner
is a little apt to get tired of the unvarying round in which they present themselves. Perhaps
we relish them more for having a little trouble in placing them, as we do nuts that we crack
better than those we buy cracked. In optical effect, there is not much difference between them
and the best ordinary instruments. We employ one stereoscope with adjusting glasses for the
hand, and another common one upon a broad rosewood stand. The stand may be added to any instrument,
and is a great convenience.

Some will have none but glass stereoscopic pictures; paper ones are not good enough for them.
Wisdom dwells not with such. It is true that there is a brilliancy in a glass picture, with
a flood of light pouring through it, which no paper one, with the light necessarily falling
on it, can approach. But this brilliancy fatigues the eye much more than the quiet reflected
light of the paper stereograph. Twenty-five glass slides, well inspected in a strong light,
are good for one headache, if a person is disposed to that trouble.

Again, a good paper photograph is infinitely better than a bad glass one. We have a glass stereograph
of Bethlehem, which looks as if the ground were covered with snow,--and paper ones of Jerusalem
colored and uncolored, much superior to it both in effect and detail. The Oriental pictures,
we think, are apt to have this white, patchy look; possibly we do not get the best in this country.

A good view on glass or paper is, as a rule, best uncolored. But some of the American views
of Niagara on glass are greatly improved by being colored; the water being rendered vastly
more suggestive of the reality by the deep green tinge. Per contra, we have seen some American
views so carelessly colored that they were all the worse for having been meddled with. The
views of the Hathaway Cottage, before referred to, are not only admirable in themselves, but
some of them are admirably colored also. Few glass stereographs compare with them as real representatives
of Nature.

