And now that she was his wife, he was anxious to begin the course he had determined to pursue.
Cora had received the ordinary schooling of girls, but had somehow missed the true education.
Her acquirements were a surface gloss merely, Enfield knew. She had never been touched by the
sacred fire. She could not tell a good book from a poor one, he had said to Loramer. But he
had taken her, and his heart yearned toward the companion of his choice. Yet there could be
no true companionship where there was no common view or interest. It seemed to him that she
had never learned the right use of her eyes, that the few and little things close to her shut
out the sight of the great and innumerable company beyond, as if one reared among city streets
should never see either the earth or the sky. He would teach her to use them, would show her
the awe and beauty of the world. They would read together; he would find a new charm and inspiration
in his loved books; she would catch his enthusiasm and insensibly learn the delight and true
cultivation of all that is great and good.

He found no chance to begin for a long time. She was very busy and seemed very happy. There
was the house to set in order, his friends and hers to entertain; she was learning to ride.
But by and by came winter and shut them in more alone. He got out his books and proposed their
reading together, and was pleased to find she welcomed the plan. She read with a clear intonation
and a careful regard for pointing and pronunciation; but somehow as he listened to her the
strength and flavor of his favorite authors escaped between the words. Her idea of reading
poetry seemed to be that it should sound exactly like prose. She had apparently no conception
of anything like rhythm, and seemed to think it a special grace to avoid any slightest pause
at the end of a line when it could be done; so that the mind was kept on a strain to catch
at the rhyme and measure. He said nothing, but one night took the book himself. He read things
to her that had made his heart throb and dimmed his eyes, or filled him with delightful laughter,
and they wearied or puzzled her, and seemed cold and sterile to himself. He began to lose courage,
but he persevered.

He read on to the end. When he stopped he hoped she would not speak; he felt by anticipation
the jar of her clear cold voice. But she did not speak. Her face was in the shadow, but he
could see without turning his head that her bosom heaved and heaved. She was touched,--she
understood. With a rush came a thought that the splendid song symbolized their relation. It
was he who stood at the gate, alone, and called her out from "the dancers dancing in tune."
He had almost wearied of calling, but she heard,--at last she heard!

There was silence a while in the room; then he moved very gently and looked in her face. There
was a smile on her lips, and her eyes were closed. She was asleep.

He left her there and went out. It was cold and still; the stars glittered, the earth was white.
He walked far on the frozen snow, with a feeling as hard and cold as the bitter air.

All the charm had gone out of the words. Were such passionate yearnings actual, or at best
more than empty delusions? He had yearned so toward her; she had been "his life, his fate."
His fate, truly, but was she not rather his death? What kind of creature was it that words
like those could not move? She cast a blight upon the noblest things, made him doubt and disbelieve
where before he had walked with firm feet. And she was his fate; he was bound to her by his
own hand. She sat there now by his table, and there she would sit and sit. The picture made
his house seem a prison. He must go back there by and by. The thought of living at variance
was very bitter to him, yet how could they prevent it who had nothing in common, whose instincts
drew opposite ways. He was unequally yoked with an unbeliever.

The village clock recalled him from that dismal reverie. He had a call to make at the Marlakes';
the children were all three sick. Kate Marlake had been a Grayland, and her sister Stella was
recently come to stay with her through that trying time. Lawrence gave one of the children
a soothing potion, and said he would wait to see the effect. He went down-stairs, and Kate
sent Stella to keep him company. She asked him about the children, and he explained to her
the "self-limited" character of the disease and the necessity that they should grow worse before
they could be better, but assured her there was no present cause for alarm. And while he thus
reassured her, she was unconsciously exerting a more powerful influence upon him. Her steady,
balanced carriage, her quiet, straight, brief questions, her direct glance, her strong but
controlled interest, the simple grace with which she sat afterward, altogether affected him
with a great tenderness, mingled with despair. Why could not Cora be like that? Was it so hard
to be simple, gracious, modestly satisfied? It seemed very easy in Stella's presence. She did
not say much; her words were fit and sincere, to be sure, but simple and few, and as like as
not to end with a depreciating, low, lapsing laugh. But somehow she made all brave and gentle
and generous things seem easy and very desirable. Lawrence looked up from his abstraction and
found her watching him.

"Don't you miss your music?" he asked.

"Well," she answered, with her low laugh, "it would hardly be gracious to say I do, when Kate
needs me so badly,--and hardly true to say no."

Lawrence recalled a remark of Dr. Kane's;--how when, on one of his voyages, in their ice-girt
winter quarters, the whole ship's company, save himself, were prostrate below decks, and he
with incredible strength and fortitude was literally doing everything, not even omitting to
register regular observations of the instruments;--in the midst of that unsurpassable heroism
among the polar solitudes, he felt at night a dissatisfaction with the day as having been spent
to little purpose worthy of his powers.

Stella listened, and was still a moment before she answered:

"Yes, I can understand that."

That was it. She could understand. She knew what he was talking about; she knew and cared.
He had always remarked her peculiarly melodious, low voice; he thought now he had never heard
one so expressive. It was never either loud or faint, but exquisitely modulated, like all her
motions. He could say things to her; when he began to talk to Cora, his words came back upon
him as in an echoing hall, and smothered him with the sound of his own voice. Stella Grayland,
sitting composedly, saying little, stirred him like noble music,--made him strong and fervid.

They talked of many things, the dark background of his thought giving a sombre undertone to
his part. They came back to music.

"You enjoy it as much as ever?" he asked.

"Oh, yes," she answered; "I think it grows constantly upon you. One's deficiencies become painfully
clearer, and bad music seems to increase and become more of a trial. But it is a satisfaction
to feel that one grows a little, taking the years together; and it is very pleasant to know
that there will always be plenty to learn and enjoy."

She ended with a little sigh.

He was looking at her, but he only said:

"Yes."

Her words exactly expressed his feeling for literature. He felt as if they two had been climbing
the same hill by different paths, and stood side by side for a moment looking up to the heights
beyond that rose one above another,--where over the dark pine forests the glittering snow-peaks
pierced the sky and the rivers of ice shone gloriously.

Kate came to tell them that Jenny was asleep, and they went up softly. Lawrence wrote out his
directions for the night and came down, Stella accompanying him. At the door he paused a moment
abstractedly.

"Don't you think it's a great loss for a person to miss the pleasure and appreciation of a
noble art?" he asked, seriously.

She looked at him questioningly, but replied:

"Yes, it makes me very sorry sometimes; it is a great loss. But I reflect that there are a
great many people who get on without it, and they seem quite contented and happy. I think those
who have the advantage of the finer influences and delights should be very good and try to
prevent the younger ones from growing up without caring for such things."

"Yes, that is true," he replied, and he went on with suppressed agitation: "But suppose one
should grow up blind to all art and yet not contented or happy, without any true knowledge,
or faith, or cultivation but the outward seeming, unsettled, unsatisfied, hungering for one
knows not what, despising all that one has?"

He leaned back, and neither spoke for a moment. She turned either way with a shuddering movement.

"That would be terrible," she answered. "But do you think there are any so unfortunate?"

"Yes, there are some," he returned; "I hope indeed not many."

"And can nothing be done for them?"

"I don't know. I am afraid not."

"Oh, I think you should not say that," she continued, warmly; "their friends should not despair.
It would be like saving a soul from death!"

"Thank you," he said. "Good-night!" He offered his hand, and she gave him hers frankly.

He came away softened and humbled; the night was not so hard and cold now. All that was compassionate
and unselfish in him was re-enforced, and the view of his better nature confirmed. His feeling
toward Cora was only gentle and pitiful.

