How many niceties, delicacies, subtleties of language, we, speakers of the English tongue,
in the course of centuries have got rid of; how bare (whether too bare is another question)
we have stripped ourselves; what simplicity for better or for worse reigns in the present English,
as compared with the old Anglo-Saxon. That had six declensions, our present English but one;
that had three genders, English, if we except one or two words, has none; that formed the genitive
in a variety of ways, we only in one; and the same fact meets us, wherever we compare the grammars
of the two languages. At the same time, it can scarcely be repeated too often, that in the
estimate of the gain or loss thereupon ensuing, we must by no means put certainly to loss everything
which the language has dismissed, any more than everything to gain which it has acquired. It
is no real wealth in a language to have needless and superfluous forms. They are often an embarrassment
and an encumbrance to it rather than a help. The Finnish language has fourteen cases. Without
pretending to know exactly what it is able to effect, I yet feel confident that it cannot effect
more, nor indeed so much, with its fourteen as the Greek is able to do with its five. It therefore
seems to me that some words of Otfried Müller, in many ways admirable, do yet exaggerate the
losses consequent on the reduction of the forms of a language. “It may be observed”, he says,
“that in the lapse of ages, from the time that the progress of language can be observed, grammatical
forms, such as the signs of cases, moods and tenses have never been increased in number, but
have been constantly diminishing. The history of the Romance, as well as of the Germanic, languages
shows in the clearest manner how a grammar, once powerful and copious, has been gradually weakened
and impoverished, until at last it preserves only a few fragments of its ancient inflections.
Now there is no doubt that this luxuriance of grammatical forms is not an essential part of
a language, considered merely as a vehicle of thought. It is well known that the Chinese language,
which is merely a collection of radical words destitute of grammatical forms, can express even
philosophical ideas with tolerable precision; and the English, which, from the mode of its
formation by a mixture of different tongues, has been stripped of its grammatical inflections
more completely than any other European language, seems, nevertheless, even to a foreigner,
to be distinguished by its energetic eloquence. All this must be admitted by every unprejudiced
inquirer; but yet it cannot be overlooked, that this copiousness of grammatical forms, and
the fine shades of meaning which they express, evince a nicety of observation, and a faculty
of distinguishing, which unquestionably prove that the race of mankind among whom these languages
arose was characterized by a remarkable correctness and subtlety of thought. Nor can any modern
European, who forms in his mind a lively image of the classical languages in their ancient
grammatical luxuriance, and compares them with his mother tongue, conceal from himself that
in the ancient languages the words, with their inflections, clothed as it were with muscles
and sinews, come forward like living bodies, full of expression and character, while in the
modern tongues the words seem shrunk up into mere skeletons”{166}.

{Sidenote: Words in ‘-ess’}

Whether languages are as much impoverished by this process as is here assumed, may, I think,
be a question. I will endeavour to give you some materials which shall assist you in forming
your own judgment in the matter. And here I am sure that I shall do best in considering not
forms which the language has relinquished long ago, but mainly such as it is relinquishing
now; which, touching us more nearly, will have a far more lively interest for us all. For example,
the female termination which we employ in certain words, such as from ‘heir’ ‘heiress’, from
‘prophet’ ‘prophetess’, from ‘sorcerer’ ‘sorceress’, was once far more widely extended than
at present; the words which retain it are daily becoming fewer. It has already fallen away
in so many, and is evidently becoming of less frequent use in so many others, that, if we may
augur of the future from the analogy of the past, it will one day altogether vanish from our
tongue. Thus all these occur in Wiclif’s Bible; ‘techeress’ as the female teacher (2 Chron.
xxxv. 25); ‘friendess’ (Prov. vii. 4); ‘servantess’ (Gen. xvi. 2); ‘leperess’ (=saltatrix,
Ecclus. ix. 4); ‘daunceress’ (Ecclus. ix. 4); ‘neighbouress’ (Exod. iii. 22); ‘sinneress’ (Luke
vii. 37); ‘purpuress’ (Acts xvi. 14); ‘cousiness’ (Luke i. 36); ‘slayeress’ (Tob. iii. 9);
‘devouress’ (Ezek. xxxvi. 13); ‘spousess’ (Prov. v. 19); ‘thralless’ (Jer. xxxiv. 16); ‘dwelleress’
(Jer. xxi. 13); ‘waileress’ (Jer. ix. 17); ‘cheseress’ (=electrix, Wisd. viii. 4); ‘singeress’,
‘breakeress’, ‘waiteress’, this last indeed having recently come up again. Add to these ‘chideress’,
the female chider, ‘herdess’, ‘constabless’, ‘moveress’, ‘jangleress’, ‘soudaness’ (=sultana),
‘guideress’, ‘charmeress’ (all in Chaucer); and others, which however we may have now let them
fall, reached to far later periods of the language; thus ‘vanqueress’ (Fabyan); ‘poisoneress’
(Greneway); ‘knightess’ (Udal); ‘pedleress’, ‘championess’, ‘vassaless’, ‘avengeress’, ‘warriouress’,
‘victoress’, ‘creatress’ (all in Spenser); ‘fornicatress’, ‘cloistress’, ‘jointress’ (all in
Shakespeare); ‘vowess’ (Holinshed); ‘ministress’, ‘flatteress’ (both in Holland); ‘captainess’
(Sidney); ‘saintess’ (Sir T. Urquhart); ‘heroess’, ‘dragoness’, ‘butleress’, ‘contendress’,
‘waggoness’, ‘rectress’ (all in Chapman); ‘shootress’ (Fairfax); ‘archeress’ (Fanshawe); ‘clientess’,
‘pandress’ (both in Middleton); ‘papess’, ‘Jesuitess’ (Bishop Hall); ‘incitress’ (Gayton);
‘soldieress’, ‘guardianess’, ‘votaress’ (all in Beaumont and Fletcher); ‘comfortress’, ‘fosteress’
(Ben Jonson); ‘soveraintess’ (Sylvester); ‘preserveress’ (Daniel); ‘solicitress’, ‘impostress’,
‘buildress’, ‘intrudress’ (all in Fuller); ‘favouress’ (Hakewell); ‘commandress’ (Burton);
‘monarchess’, ‘discipless’ (Speed); ‘auditress’, ‘cateress’, ‘chantress’, ‘tyranness’ (all
in Milton); ‘citess’, ‘divineress’ (both in Dryden); ‘deaness’ (Sterne); ‘detractress’ (Addison);
‘hucksteress’ (Howell); ‘tutoress’ (Shaftesbury); ‘farmeress’ (Lord Peterborough, Letter to
Pope); ‘laddess’, which however still survives in the contracted form of ‘lass’{167}; with
more which, I doubt not, it would not be very hard to bring together{168}.

{Sidenote: Words in ‘-ster’}

Exactly the same thing has happened with another feminine affix. I refer to ‘ster’, taking
the place of ‘er’ where a feminine doer is intended{169}. ‘Spinner’ and ‘spinster’ are the
only pair of such words, which still survive. There were formerly many such; thus ‘baker’ had
‘bakester’, being the female who baked: ‘brewer’ ‘brewster’; ‘sewer’ ‘sewster’; ‘reader’ ‘readster’;
‘seamer’ ‘seamster’; ‘fruiterer’ ‘fruitester’; ‘tumbler’ ‘tumblester’; ‘hopper’ ‘hoppester’
(these last three in Chaucer; “the shippes hoppesteres”, about which so much difficulty has
been made, are the ships dancing, i.e., on the waves){170}, ‘knitter’ ‘knitster’ (a word, I
am told, still alive in Devon). Add to these ‘whitster’ (female bleacher, Shakespeare), ‘kempster’
(pectrix), ‘dryster’ (siccatrix), ‘brawdster’, (I suppose embroideress){171}, and ‘salster’
(salinaria){172}. It is a singular example of the richness of a language in forms at the earlier
stages of its existence, that not a few of the words which had, as we have just seen, a feminine
termination in ‘ess’, had also a second in ‘ster’. Thus ‘daunser’, beside ‘daunseress’, had
also ‘daunster’ (Ecclus. ix. 4); ‘wailer’, beside ‘waileress’, had ‘wailster’ (Jer. ix. 17);
‘dweller’ ‘dwelster’ (Jer. xxi. 13); and ‘singer’ ‘singster’ (2 Kin. xix. 35); so too, ‘chider’
had ‘chidester’ (Chaucer), as well as ‘chideress’, ‘slayer’ ‘slayster’ (Tob. iii. 9), as well
as ‘slayeress’, ‘chooser’ ‘chesister’, (Wisd. viii. 4), as well as ‘cheseress’, with others
that might be named.

{Sidenote: Deceptive Analogies}

It is difficult to understand how Marsh, with these examples before him should affirm, “I find
no positive evidence to show that the termination ‘ster’ was ever regarded as a feminine termination
in English”. It may be, and indeed has been, urged that the existence of such words as ‘seamstress’,
‘songstress’, is decisive proof that the ending ‘ster’ of itself was not counted sufficient
to designate persons as female; for if, it has been said, ‘seamster’ and ‘songster’ had been
felt to be already feminine, no one would have ever thought of doubling on this, and adding
a second female termination; ‘seamstress’, ‘songstress’. But all which can justly be concluded
from hence is, that when this final ‘ess’ was added to these already feminine forms, and examples
of it will not, I think, be found till a comparatively late period of the language, the true
principle and law of the words had been lost sight of and forgotten{173}. The same may be affirmed
of such other of these feminine forms as are now applied to men, such as ‘gamester’, ‘youngster’,
‘oldster’, ‘drugster’ (South), ‘huckster’, ‘hackster’, (=swordsman, Milton, prose), ‘teamster’,
‘throwster’, ‘rhymester’, ‘punster’ (Spectator), ‘tapster’, ‘whipster’ (Shakespeare), ‘trickster’.
Either, like ‘teamster’, and ‘punster’, the words first came into being, when the true significance
of this form was altogether lost{174}; or like ‘tapster’, which was female in Chaucer (“the
gay tapstere”), as it is still in Dutch and Frisian, and distinguished from ‘tapper’, the man
who keeps the inn, or has charge of the tap, or as ‘bakester’, at this day used in Scotland
for ‘baker’, as ‘dyester’ for ‘dyer’, the word did originally belong of right and exclusively
to women; but with the gradual transfer of the occupation to men, and an increasing forgetfulness
of what this termination implied, there went also a transfer of the name{175}, just as in other
words, and out of the same causes, the exact converse has found place; and ‘baker’ or ‘brewer’,
not ‘bakester’ or ‘brewster’{176}, would be now in England applied to the woman baking or brewing.
So entirely has this power of the language died out, that it survives more apparently than
really even in ‘spinner’ and ‘spinster’; seeing that ‘spinster’ has obtained now quite another
meaning than that of a woman spinning, whom, as well as the man, we should call not a ‘spinster’,
but a ‘spinner’{177}. It would indeed be hard to believe, if we had not constant experience
of the fact, how soon and how easily the true law and significance of some form, which has
never ceased to be in everybody’s mouth, may yet be lost sight of by all. No more curious chapter
in the history of language could be written than one which should trace the violations of analogy,
the transgressions of the most primary laws of a language, which follow hereupon; the plurals
like ‘welkin’ (=wolken, the clouds){178}, ‘chicken’{179}, which are dealt with as singulars,
the singulars, like ‘riches’ (richesse){180}, ‘pease’ (pisum, pois){181}, ‘alms’, ‘eaves’{182},
which are assumed to be plurals.

{Sidenote: The Genitival Inflexion ‘-s’}

There is one example of this, familiar to us all; probably so familiar that it would not be
worth while adverting to it, if it did not illustrate, as no other word could, this forgetfulness
which may overtake a whole people, of the true meaning of a grammatical form which they have
never ceased to employ. I refer to the mistaken assumption that the ‘s’ of the genitive, as
‘the king’s countenance’, was merely a more rapid way of pronouncing ‘the king his countenance’,
and that the final ‘s’ in ‘king’s’ was in fact an elided ‘his’. This explanation for a long
time prevailed almost universally; I believe there are many who accept it still. It was in
vain that here and there a deeper knower of our tongue protested against this “monstrous syntax”,
as Ben Jonson in his Grammar justly calls it{183}. It was in vain that Wallis, another English
scholar of the seventeenth century, pointed out in his Grammar that the slightest examination
of the facts revealed the untenable character of this explanation, seeing that we do not merely
say “the king’s countenance”, but “the queen’s countenance”; and in this case the final ‘s’
cannot stand for ‘his’, for “the queen his countenance” cannot be intended{184}; we do not
say merely “the child’s bread”, but “the children’s bread”, where it is no less impossible
to resolve the phrase into “the children his bread”{185}. Despite of these protests the error
held its ground. This much indeed of a plea it could make for itself, that such an actual employment
of ‘his’ had found its way into the language, as early as the fourteenth century, and had been
in occasional, though rare use, from that time downward{186}. Yet this, which has only been
elicited by the researches of recent scholars, does not in the least justify those who assumed
that in the habitual ‘s’ of the genitive were to be found the remains of ‘his’--an error from
which the books of scholars in the seventeenth, and in the early decades of the eighteenth,
century are not a whit clearer than those of others. Spenser, Donne, Fuller, Jeremy Taylor,
all fall into it; I cannot say confidently whether Milton does. Dryden more than once helps
out his verse with an additional syllable gained by its aid. It has even forced its way into
our Prayer Book itself, where in the “Prayer for all sorts and conditions of men”, added by
Bishop Sanderson at the last revision of the Liturgy in 1661, we are bidden to say, “And this
we beg for Jesus Christ his sake”{187}. I need hardly tell you that this ‘s’ is in fact the
one remnant of flexion surviving in the singular number of our English noun substantives; it
is in all the Indo-Germanic languages the original sign of the genitive, or at any rate the
earliest of which we can take cognizance; and just as in Latin ‘lapis’ makes ‘lapidis’ in the
genitive, so ‘king’, ‘queen’, ‘child’, make severally ‘kings’, ‘queens’, ‘childs’, the comma,
an apparent note of elision, being a mere modern expedient, “a late refinement”, as Ash calls
it{188}, to distinguish the genitive singular from the plural cases{189}.

{Sidenote: Adjectives in ‘-en’}

Notice another example of this willingness to dispense with inflection, of this endeavour on
the part of the speakers of a language to reduce its forms to the fewest possible, consistent
with the accurate communication of thought. Of our adjectives in ‘en’, formed on substantives,
and expressing the material or substance of a thing, some have gone, others are going, out
of use; while we content ourselves with the bare juxtaposition of the substantive itself, as
sufficiently expressing our meaning. Thus instead of “golden pin” we say “gold pin”; instead
of “earthen works” we say “earth works”. ‘Golden’ and ‘earthen’, it is true, still belong to
our living speech, though mainly as part of our poetic diction, or of the solemn and thus stereotyped
language of Scripture; but a whole company of such words have nearly or quite disappeared;
some lately, some long ago. ‘Steelen’ and ‘flowren’ belong only to the earliest period of the
language; ‘rosen’ also went early. Chaucer is my latest authority for it (“rosen chapelet”).
‘Hairen’ is in Wiclif and in Chaucer; ‘stonen’ in the former (John iii. 6){190}. ‘Silvern’
stood originally in Wiclif’s Bible (“silverne housis to Diane”, Acts xix. 24); but already
in the second recension of this was exchanged for ‘silver’; ‘hornen’, still in provincial use,
he also employs, and ‘clayen’ (Job iv. 19) no less. ‘Tinnen’ occurs in Sylvester’s Du Bartas;
where also we meet with “Jove’s milken alley”, as a name for the Via Lactea, in Bacon also
not “the Milky”, but “the Milken Way”. In the coarse polemics of the Reformation the phrase,
“breaden god”, provoked by the Romish doctrine of transubstantiation, was of frequent employment,
and occurs as late as in Oldham. “Mothen parchments” is in Fulke; “twiggen bottle” in Shakespeare;
‘yewen’, or, according to earlier spelling, “ewghen bow”, in Spenser; “cedarn alley”, and “azurn
sheen” are both in Milton; “boxen leaves” in Dryden; “a treen cup” in Jeremy Taylor; “eldern
popguns” in Sir Thomas Overbury; “a glassen breast”, in Whitlock; “a reeden hat” in Coryat;
‘yarnen’ occurs in Turberville; ‘furzen’ in Holland; ‘threaden’ in Shakespeare; and ‘bricken’,
‘papern’ appear in our provincial glossaries as still in use.

It is true that many of these adjectives still hold their ground; but it is curious to note
how the roots which sustain even these are being gradually cut away from beneath them. Thus
‘brazen’ might at first sight seem as strongly established in the language as ever; it is far
from so being; its supports are being cut from beneath it. Even now it only lives in a tropical
and secondary sense, as ‘a brazen face’; or if in a literal, in poetic diction or in the consecrated
language of Scripture, as ‘the brazen serpent’; otherwise we say ‘a brass farthing’, ‘a brass
candlestick’. It is the same with ‘oaten’, ‘birchen’, ‘beechen’, ‘strawen’, and many more,
whereof some are obsolescent, some obsolete, the language manifestly tending now, as it has
tended for a long time past, to the getting quit of these, and to the satisfying of itself
with an adjectival apposition of the substantive in their stead.

{Sidenote: Weak and Strong Præterites}

Let me illustrate by another example the way in which a language, as it travels onward, simplifies
itself, approaches more and more to a grammatical and logical uniformity, seeks to do the same
thing always in the same manner; where it has two or three ways of conducting a single operation,
lets all of them go but one; and thus becomes, no doubt, easier to be mastered, more handy,
more manageable; for its very riches were to many an embarrassment and a perplexity; but at
the same time imposes limits and restraints on its own freedom of action, and is in danger
of forfeiting elements of strength, variety and beauty, which it once possessed. I refer to
the tendency of our verbs to let go their strong præterites, and to substitute weak ones in
their room; or, where they have two or three præterites, to retain only one of them, and that
invariably the weak one. Though many of us no doubt are familiar with the terms ‘strong’ and
‘weak’ præterites, which in all our better grammars have put out of use the wholly misleading
terms, ‘irregular’ and ‘regular’, I may perhaps as well remind you of the exact meaning of
the terms. A strong præterite is one formed by an internal vowel change; for instance the verb
‘to drive’ forms the præterite ‘drove’ by an internal change of the vowel ‘i’ into ‘o’. But
why, it may be asked, called ‘strong’? In respect of the vigour and indwelling energy in the
word, enabling it to form its past tense from its own resources, and with no calling in of
help from without. On the other hand ‘lift’ forms its præterite ‘lifted’, not by any internal
change, but by the addition of ‘ed’; ‘grieve’ in like manner has ‘grieved’. Here are weak tenses;
as strength was ascribed to the other verbs, so weakness to these, which can form their præterites
only by external aid and addition. You will see at once that these strong præterites, while
they witness to a vital energy in the words which are able to put them forth, do also, as must
be allowed by all, contribute much to the variety and charm of a language{191}.

The point, however, which I am urging now is this,--that these are becoming fewer every day;
multitudes of them having disappeared, while others are in the act of disappearing. Nor is
the balance redressed and compensation found in any new creations of the kind. The power of
forming strong præterites is long ago extinct; probably no verb which has come into the language
since the Conquest has asserted this power, while a whole legion have let it go. For example,
‘shape’ has now a weak præterite, ‘shaped’, it had once a strong one, ‘shope’; ‘bake’ has now
a weak præterite, ‘baked’, it had once a strong one, ‘boke’; the præterite of ‘glide’ is now
‘glided’, it was once ‘glode’ or ‘glid’; ‘help’ makes now ‘helped’, it made once ‘halp’ and
‘holp’. ‘Creep’ made ‘crope’, still current in the north of England; ‘weep’ ‘wope’; ‘yell’
‘yoll’ (both in Chaucer); ‘seethe’ ‘soth’ or ‘sod’ (Gen. xxv. 29); ‘sheer’ in like manner once
made ‘shore’; as ‘leap’ made ‘lope’; ‘wash’ ‘wishe’ (Chaucer); ‘snow’ ‘snew’; ‘sow’ ‘sew’;
‘delve’ ‘dalf’ and ‘dolve’; ‘sweat’ ‘swat’; ‘yield’ ‘yold’ (both in Spenser); ‘mete’ ‘mat’
(Wiclif); ‘stretch’ ‘straught’; ‘melt’ ‘molt’; ‘wax’ ‘wex’ and ‘wox’; ‘laugh’ ‘leugh’; with
others more than can be enumerated here{192}.

{Sidenote: Strong Præterites}

Observe further that where verbs have not actually renounced their strong præterites, and contented
themselves with weak in their room, yet, once possessing two, or, it might be three of these
strong, they now retain only one. The others, on the principle of dismissing whatever can be
dismissed, they have let go. Thus ‘chide’ had once ‘chid’ and ‘chode’, but though ‘chode’ is
in our Bible (Gen. xxxi. 36), it has not maintained itself in our speech; ‘sling’ had ‘slung’
and ‘slang’ (1 Sam. xvii. 49); only ‘slung’ remains; ‘fling’ had once ‘flung’ and ‘flang’;
‘strive’ had ‘strove’ and ‘strave’; ‘stick’ had ‘stuck’ and ‘stack’; ‘hang’ had ‘hung’ and
‘hing’ (Golding); ‘tread’ had ‘trod’ and ‘trad’; ‘choose’ had ‘chose’ and ‘chase’; ‘give’ had
‘gave’ and ‘gove’; ‘lead’ had ‘led’ ‘lad’ and ‘lode’; ‘write’ had ‘wrote’ ‘writ’ and ‘wrate’.
In all these cases, and more might easily be cited, only [of] the præterites which I have named
the first remains in use.

Observe too that in every instance where a conflict is now going on between weak and strong
forms, which shall continue, the battle is not to the strong; on the contrary the weak is carrying
the day, is getting the better of its stronger competitor. Thus ‘climbed’ is gaining the upper
hand of ‘clomb’, ‘swelled’ of ‘swoll’, ‘hanged’ of ‘hung’. It is not too much to anticipate
that a time will come, although it may be still far off, when all English verbs will form their
præterites weakly; not without serious damage to the fulness and force which in this respect
the language even now displays, and once far more eminently displayed{193}.

{Sidenote: Comparatives and Superlatives}

Take another proof of this tendency in our own language to drop its forms and renounce its
own inherent powers; though here also the renunciation, threatening one day to be complete,
is only partial at the present. I refer to the formation of our comparatives and superlatives;
and I will ask you again to observe here that curious law of language, namely, that wherever
there are two or more ways of attaining the same result, there is always a disposition to drop
and dismiss all of these but one, so that the alternative or choice of ways once existing,
shall not exist any more. If only it can attain a greater simplicity, it seems to grudge no
self-impoverishment by which this result may be brought about. We have two ways of forming
our comparatives and superlatives, one dwelling in the word itself, which we have inherited
from our old Gothic stock, as ‘bright’, ‘brighter’, ‘brightest’, the other supplementary to
this, by prefixing the auxiliaries ‘more’ and ‘most’. The first, organic we might call it,
the indwelling power of the word to mark its own degrees, must needs be esteemed the more excellent
way; which yet, already disallowed in almost all adjectives of more than two syllables in length,
is daily becoming of narrower and more restrained application. Compare in this matter our present
with our past. Wiclif for example forms such comparatives as ‘grievouser’, ‘gloriouser’, ‘patienter’,
‘profitabler’, such superlatives as ‘grievousest’, ‘famousest’; this last occurring also in
Bacon. We meet in Tyndale, ‘excellenter’, ‘miserablest’; in Shakespeare, ‘violentest’; in Gabriel
Harvey, ‘vendiblest’, ‘substantialest’, ‘insolentest’; in Rogers, ‘insufficienter’, ‘goldener’;
in Beaumont and Fletcher, ‘valiantest’. Milton uses ‘virtuosest’, and in prose ‘vitiosest’,
‘elegantest’, ‘artificialest’, ‘servilest’, ‘sheepishest’, ‘resolutest’, ‘sensualest’; Fuller
has ‘fertilest’; Baxter ‘tediousest’; Butler ‘preciousest’, ‘intolerablest’; Burnet ‘copiousest’,
Gray ‘impudentest’. Of these forms, and it would be easy to adduce almost any number, we should
hardly employ any now. In participles and adverbs in ‘ly’, these organic comparatives and superlatives
hardly survive at all. We do not say ‘willinger’ or ‘lovinger’, and still less ‘flourishingest’,
or ‘shiningest’, or ‘surmountingest’, all which Gabriel Harvey, a foremost master of the English
of his time, employs; ‘plenteouslyer’, ‘fulliest’ (Wiclif), ‘easiliest’ (Fuller), ‘plainliest’
(Dryden), would be all inadmissible at present.

In the manifest tendency of English at the present moment to reduce the number of words in
which this more vigorous scheme of expressing degrees is allowed, we must recognize an evidence
that the energy which the language had in its youth is in some measure abating, and the stiffness
of age overtaking it. Still it is with us here only as it is with all languages, in which at
a certain time of their life auxiliary words, leaving the main word unaltered, are preferred
to inflections of this last. Such preference makes itself ever more strongly felt; and, judging
from analogy, I cannot doubt that a day, however distant now, will arrive, when the only way
of forming comparatives and superlatives in the English language will be by prefixing ‘more’
and ‘most’; or, if the other survive, it will be in poetry alone.

It will fare not otherwise, as I am bold to predict, with the flexional genitive, formed in
‘s’ or ‘es’ (see p. 161). This too will finally disappear altogether from the language, or
will survive only in poetry, and as much an archaic form there as the ‘pictaï’ of Virgil. A
time will come when it will not any longer be free to say, as now, either, “the king’s sons”,
or “the sons of the king”, but when the latter will be the only admissible form. Tokens of
this are already evident. The region in which the alternative forms are equally good is narrowing.
We should not now any more write, “When man’s son shall come” (Wiclif), but “When the Son of
man shall come”, nor yet, “The hypocrite’s hope shall perish” (Job viii. 13, Authorized Version),
but, “The hope of the hypocrite shall perish”; not with Barrow, “No man can be ignorant of
human life’s brevity and uncertainty”, but “No man can be ignorant of the brevity and uncertainty
of human life”. The consummation which I anticipate may be centuries off, but will assuredly
arrive{194}.

{Sidenote: Lost Diminutives}

Then too diminutives are fast disappearing from the language. If we desire to express smallness,
we prefer to do it by an auxiliary word; thus a little fist, and not a ‘fistock’ (Golding),
a little lad, and not a ‘ladkin’, a little worm, rather than a ‘wormling’ (Sylvester). It is
true that of diminutives very many still survive, in all our four terminations of such, as
‘hillock’, ‘streamlet’, ‘lambkin’, ‘gosling’; but those which have perished are many more.
Where now is ‘kingling’ (Holland), ‘whimling’ (Beaumont and Fletcher), ‘godling’, ‘loveling’,
‘dwarfling’, ‘shepherdling’ (all in Sylvester), ‘chasteling’ (Bacon), ‘niceling’ (Stubbs),
‘fosterling’ (Ben Johnson), and ‘masterling’? Where now ‘porelet’ (=paupercula, Isai. x. 30,
Vulg.), ‘bundelet’, (both in Wiclif); ‘cushionet’ (Henry More), ‘havenet’, or little ‘haven’,
‘pistolet’, ‘bulkin’ (Holland), and a hundred more? Even of those which remain many are putting
off, or have long since put off, their diminutive sense; a ‘pocket’ being no longer a small
poke, nor a ‘latchet’ a small lace, nor a ‘trumpet’ a small trump, as once they were.

{Sidenote: Thou and Thee}

Once more--in the entire dropping among the higher classes of ‘thou’, except in poetry or in
addresses to the Deity, and as a necessary consequence, the dropping also of the second singular
of the verb with its strongly marked flexion, as ‘lovest’, ‘lovedst’, we have another example
of a force once existing in the language, which has been, or is being, allowed to expire. In
the seventeenth century ‘thou’ in English, as at the present ‘du’ in German, ‘tu’ in French,
was the sign of familiarity, whether that familiarity was of love, or of contempt and scorn{195}.
It was not unfrequently the latter. And when Sir Toby Belch in Twelfth Night is urging Sir
Andrew Aguecheek to send a sufficiently provocative challenge to Viola, he suggests to him
that he “taunt him with the licence of ink; if thou thou’st him some thrice, it shall not be
amiss”. To keep this in mind will throw much light on one peculiarity of the Quakers, and give
a certain dignity to it, as once maintained, which at present it is very far from possessing.
However needless and unwise their determination to ‘thee’ and ‘thou’ the whole world was, yet
this had a significance. It was not, as now to us it seems, and, through the silent changes
which language has undergone, as now it indeed is, a gratuitous departure from the ordinary
usage of society. Right or wrong, it meant something, and had an ethical motive: being indeed
a testimony upon their parts, however misplaced, that they would not have high or great or
rich men’s persons in admiration; nor give the observance to some which they withheld from
others. It was a testimony too which cost them something; at present we can very little understand
the amount of courage which this ‘thou-ing’ and ‘thee-ing’ of all men must have demanded on
their parts, nor yet the amount of indignation and offence which it stirred up in them who
were not aware of, or would not allow for, the scruples which obliged them to it{196}. It is,
however, in its other aspect that we must chiefly regret the dying out of the use of ‘thou’--that
is, as the pledge of peculiar intimacy and special affection, as between husband and wife,
parents and children, and such other as might be knit together by bands of more than common
affection.

{Sidenote: Gender Words}

I have preferred during this lecture to find my theme in changes which are now going forward
in English, but I cannot finish it without drawing one illustration from its remoter periods,
and bidding you to note a force not now waning and failing from it, but extinct long ago. I
cannot well pass it by; being as it is by far the boldest step which in this direction of simplification
the English language has at any time taken. I refer to the renouncing of the distribution of
its nouns into masculine, feminine, and neuter, as in German, or even into masculine and feminine,
as in French; and with this, and as a necessary consequence of this, the dropping of any flexional
modification in the adjectives connected with them. Natural sex of course remains, being inherent
in all language; but grammatical gender, with the exception of ‘he’, ‘she’, and ‘it’, and perhaps
one or two other fragmentary instances, the language has altogether forgone. An example will
make clear the distinction between these. Thus it is not the word ‘poetess’ which is feminine,
but the person indicated who is female. So too ‘daughter’, ‘queen’, are in English not feminine
nouns, but nouns designating female persons. Take on the contrary ‘filia’ or ‘regina’, ‘fille’
or ‘reine’; there you have feminine nouns as well as female persons. I need hardly say to you
that we did not inherit this simplicity from others, but, like the Danes, in so far as they
have done the like, have made it for ourselves. Whether we turn to the Latin, or, which is
for us more important, to the old Gothic, we find gender; and in all daughter languages which
have descended from the Latin, in most of those which have descended from the ancient Gothic
stock, it is fully established to this day. The practical, business-like character of the English
mind asserted itself in the rejection of a distinction, which in a vast proportion of words,
that is, in all which are the signs of inanimate objects, and as such incapable of sex, rested
upon a fiction, and had no ground in the real nature of things. It is only by an act and effort
of the imagination that sex, and thus gender, can be attributed to a table, a ship, or a tree;
and there are aspects, this being one, in which the English is among the least imaginative
of all languages even while it has been employed in some of the mightiest works of imagination
which the world has ever seen{197}.

