NEW SERIES.  SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 1852.  PRICE 1½d.

TIME'S REVIEW OF CHARACTER.

ROBESPIERRE.

Some characters are a puzzle to history, and none is more so than that of Robespierre. According
to popular belief, this personage was a blood-thirsty monster, a vulgar tyrant, who committed
the most unheard-of enormities, with the basely selfish object of raising himself to supreme
power--of becoming the Cromwell of the Revolution. Considering that Robespierre was for five
years--1789 to 1794--a prime leader in the political movements in France; that for a length
of time he was personally concerned in sending from forty to fifty heads to the scaffold per
diem; and that the Reign of Terror ceased immediately on his overthrow--it is not surprising
that his character is associated with all that is villainous and detestable. Nevertheless,
as the obscurities of the great revolutionary drama clear up, a strange suspicion begins to
be entertained, that the popular legend respecting Robespierre is in a considerable degree
fallacious; nay, it is almost thought that this man was, in reality, a most kind-hearted, simple,
unambitious, and well-disposed individual--a person who, to say the least of it, deeply deplored
the horrors in which considerations of duty had unhappily involved him. To attempt an unravelment
of these contradictions, let us call up the phantom of this mysterious personage, and subject
him to review.

To understand Robespierre, it is necessary to understand the French Revolution. The proximate
cause of that terrible convulsion was, as is well known, an utter disorder in all the functions
of the state, and more particularly in the finances, equivalent to national bankruptcy. That
matters might have been substantially patched up by judicious statesmanship, no one doubts;
but that a catastrophe, sooner or later, was unavoidable, seems to be equally certain. The
mind of France was rotten; the principles of society were undermined. As regards religion,
there was a universal scepticism, of which the best literature of the day was the exponent;
but this unbelief was greatly strengthened by the scandalous abuses in the ecclesiastical system.
It required no depth of genius to point out that the great principles of brotherly love, humility,
equality, liberty, promulgated as part and parcel of the Christian dispensation eighteen centuries
previously, had no practical efficacy so far as France was concerned. Instead of equality before
God and the law, the humbler classes were feudal serfs, without any appeal from the cruel oppressions
to which they were exposed. In the midst of gloom, Rousseau's vague declamations on the rights
of man fell like a ray of light. A spark was communicated, which kindled a flame in the bosoms
of the more thoughtful and enthusiastic. An astonishing impulse was almost at once given to
investigation. The philosopher had his adherents all over France. Viewed as a species of prophet,
he was, properly speaking, a madman, who in his ravings had glanced on the truth, but only
glanced. Among men of sense, his ornate declamations concerning nature and reason would have
excited little more attention than that which is usually given to poetic and speculative fancies.

Amidst an impulsive and lively people, unaccustomed to the practical consideration and treatment
of abuses, there arose a cry to destroy, root up; to sweep away all preferences and privileges;
to bring down the haughty, and raise the depressed; to let all men be free and equal, all men
being brothers. Such is the origin of the three words--liberty, equality, and fraternity, which
were caught up as the charter of social intercourse. It is for ever to be regretted that this
explosion of sentiment was so utterly destructive in its character; for therein has it inflicted
immense wrong on what is abstractedly true and beautiful. At first, as will be remembered,
the revolutionists did not aim at establishing a republic, but that form of government necessarily
grew out of their hallucinations. Without pausing to consider that a nation of emancipated
serfs were unprepared to take on themselves the duties of an enlightened population, the plunge
was unhesitatingly made.

At this comparatively distant day, even with all the aids of the recording press, we can form
no adequate idea of the fervour with which this great social overthrow was set about and accomplished.
The best minds in France were in a state of ecstasy, bordering on delirium. A vast future of
human happiness seemed to dawn. Tyranny, force, fraud, all the bad passions, were to disappear
under the beneficent approach of Reason. Among the enthusiasts who rushed into this marvellous
frenzy, was Maximilian Robespierre. It is said by his biographers, that Robespierre was of
English or Scotch origin: we have seen an account which traced him to a family in the north,
of not a dissimilar name. His father, at all events, was an advocate at Arras, in French Flanders,
and here Maximilian was born in 1759. Bred to the law, he was sent as a representative to the
States-General in 1789, and from this moment he entered on his career, and Paris was his home.
At his outset, he made no impression, and scarcely excited public notice. His manners were
singularly reserved, and his habits austere. The man lived within himself. Brooding over the
works of Rousseau, he indulged in the dream of renovating the moral world. Like Mohammed contriving
the dogmas of a new religion, Robespierre spent days in solitude, pondering on his destiny.
To many of the revolutionary leaders, the struggle going on was merely a political drama, with
a Convention for the dénouement. To Robespierre, it was a philosophical problem; all his thoughts
aimed at the ideal--at the apotheosis of human nature.

Let us take a look at his personal appearance. Visionaries are usually slovens. They despise
fashions, and imagine that dirtiness is an attribute of genius. To do the honourable member
for Artois justice, he was above this affectation. Small and neat in person, he always appeared
in public tastefully dressed, according to the fashion of the period--hair well combed back,
frizzled, and powdered; copious frills at the breast and wrists; a stainless white waistcoat;
light-blue coat, with metal buttons; the sash of a representative tied round his waist; light-coloured
breeches, white stockings, and shoes with silver buckles. Such was his ordinary costume; and
if we stick a rose in his button-hole, or place a nosegay in his hand, we shall have a tolerable
idea of his whole equipment. It is said he sometimes appeared in top-boots, which is not improbable;
for this kind of boot had become fashionable among the republicans, from a notion that as top-boots
were worn by gentlemen in England, they were allied to constitutional government. Robespierre's
features were sharp, and enlivened by bright and deeply-sunk blue eyes. There was usually a
gravity and intense thoughtfulness in his countenance, which conveyed an idea of his being
thoroughly in earnest. Yet, his address was not unpleasing. Unlike modern French politicians,
his face was always smooth, with no vestige of beard or whiskers. Altogether, therefore, he
may be said to have been a well-dressed, gentlemanly man, animated with proper self-respect,
and having no wish to court vulgar applause by neglecting the decencies of polite society.

Before entering on his public career in Paris, Robespierre had probably formed his plans, in
which, at least to outward appearance, there was an entire negation of self. A stern incorruptibility
seemed the basis of his character; and it is quite true that no offers from the court, no overtures
from associates, had power to tempt him. There was only one way by which he could sustain a
high-souled independence, and that was the course adopted in like circumstances by Andrew Marvel--simple
wants, rigorous economy, a disregard of fine company, an avoidance of expensive habits. Now,
this is the curious thing in Robespierre's history. Perhaps there was a tinge of pride in his
living a life of indigence; but in fairness it is entitled to be called an honest pride, when
we consider that the means of profusion were within his reach. On his arrival in Paris, he
procured a humble lodging in the Marais, a populous district in the north-eastern faubourgs;
but it being represented to him some time afterwards, that, as a public man, it was unsafe
to expose himself in a long walk daily to and from this obscure residence, he removed to a
house in the Rue St Honoré, now marked No. 396, opposite the Church of the Assumption. Here
he found a lodging with M. Duplay, a respectable but humble cabinet-maker, who had become attached
to the principles of the Revolution; and here he was joined by his brother, who played an inferior
part in public affairs, and is known in history as 'the Younger Robespierre.' The selection
of this dwelling seems to have fallen in with Robespierre's notions of economy; and it suited
his limited patrimony, which consisted of some rents irregularly paid by a few small farmers
of his property in Artois. These ill-paid rents, with his salary as a representative, are said
to have supported three persons--himself, his brother, and his sister; and so straitened was
he in circumstances, that he had to borrow occasionally from his landlord. Even with all his
pinching, he did not make both ends meet. We have it on authority, that at his death he was
owing L.160; a small debt to be incurred during a residence of five years in Paris, by a person
who figured as a leader of parties; and the insignificance of this sum attests his remarkable
self-denial.

Lamartine's account of the private life of Robespierre in the house of the Duplays is exceedingly
fascinating, and we should suppose is founded on well-authorised facts. The house of Duplay,
he says, 'was low, and in a court surrounded by sheds filled with timber and plants, and had
almost a rustic appearance. It consisted of a parlour opening to the court, and communicating
with a sitting-room that looked into a small garden. From the sitting-room a door led into
a small study, in which was a piano. There was a winding-staircase to the first floor, where
the master of the house lived, and thence to the apartment of Robespierre.'

Here, long acquaintance, a common table, and association for several years, 'converted the
hospitality of Duplay into an attachment that became reciprocal. The family of his landlord
became a second family to Robespierre, and while they adopted his opinions, they neither lost
the simplicity of their manners nor neglected their religious observances. They consisted of
a father, mother, a son yet a youth, and four daughters, the eldest of whom was twenty-five,
and the youngest eighteen. Familiar with the father, filial with the mother, paternal with
the son, tender and almost brotherly with the young girls, he inspired and felt in this small
domestic circle all those sentiments that only an ardent soul inspires and feels by spreading
abroad its sympathies. Love also attached his heart, where toil, poverty, and retirement had
fixed his life. Eléonore Duplay, the eldest daughter of his host, inspired Robespierre with
a more serious attachment than her sisters. The feeling, rather predilection than passion,
was more reasonable on the part of Robespierre, more ardent and simple on the part of the young
girl. This affection afforded him tenderness without torment, happiness without excitement:
it was the love adapted for a man plunged all day in the agitation of public life--a repose
of the heart after mental fatigue. He and Eléonore lived in the same house as a betrothed couple,
not as lovers. Robespierre had demanded the young girl's hand from her parents, and they had
promised it to him.

'"The total want of fortune," he said, "and the uncertainty of the morrow, prevented him from
marrying her until the destiny of France was determined; but he only awaited the moment when
the Revolution should be concluded, in order to retire from the turmoil and strife, marry her
whom he loved, go to reside with her in Artois, on one of the farms he had saved among the
possessions of his family, and there to mingle his obscure happiness in the common lot of his
family."

'The vicissitudes of the fortune, influence, and popularity of Robespierre effected no change
in his simple mode of living. The multitude came to implore favour or life at the door of his
house, yet nothing found its way within. The private lodging of Robespierre consisted of a
low chamber, constructed in the form of a garret, above some cart-sheds, with the window opening
upon the roof. It afforded no other prospect than the interior of a small court, resembling
a wood-store, where the sounds of the workmen's hammers and saws constantly resounded, and
which was continually traversed by Madame Duplay and her daughters, who there performed all
their household duties. This chamber was also separated from that of the landlord by a small
room common to the family and himself. On the other side were two rooms, likewise attics, which
were inhabited, one by the son of the master of the house, the other by Simon Duplay, Robespierre's
secretary, and the nephew of his host.

'The chamber of the deputy contained only a wooden bedstead, covered with blue damask ornamented
with white flowers, a table, and four straw-bottomed chairs. This apartment served him at once
for a study and dormitory. His papers, his reports, the manuscripts of his discourses, written
by himself in a regular but laboured hand, and with many marks of erasure, were placed carefully
on deal-shelves against the wall. A few chosen books were also ranged thereon. A volume of
Jean Jacques Rousseau or of Racine was generally open upon his table, and attested his philosophical
and literary predilections.'

With a mind continually on the stretch, and concerned less or more in all the great movements
of the day, the features of this remarkable personage 'relaxed into absolute gaiety when in-doors,
at table, or in the evening, around the wood-fire in the humble chamber of the cabinet-maker.
His evenings were all passed with the family, in talking over the feelings of the day, the
plans of the morrow, the conspiracies of the aristocrats, the dangers of the patriots, and
the prospects of public felicity after the triumph of the Revolution. Sometimes Robespierre,
who was anxious to cultivate the mind of his betrothed, read to the family aloud, and generally
from the tragedies of Racine. He seldom went out in the evening; but two or three times a year
he escorted Madame Duplay and her daughter to the theatre. On other days, Robespierre retired
early to his chamber, lay down, and rose again at night to work. The innumerable discourses
he had delivered in the two national assemblies, and to the Jacobins; the articles written
for his journal while he had one; the still more numerous manuscripts of speeches which he
had prepared, but never delivered; the studied style so remarkable; the indefatigable corrections
marked with his pen upon the manuscripts--attest his watchings and his determination.

