G. E. M.

HOLBORN AND BLOOMSBURY

The district to be treated in this volume includes a good many parishes--namely, St. Giles-in-the-Fields;
St. George, Bloomsbury; St. George the Martyr; St Andrew, Holborn; Hatton Garden, Saffron Hill;
besides the two famous Inns of Court, Lincoln's and Gray's, and the remaining buildings of
several Inns of Chancery, now diverted from their former uses. Nearly all the district is included
in the new Metropolitan Borough of Holborn, which itself differs but little from the Parliamentary
borough known as the Holborn Division of Finsbury. Part of St. Andrew's parish lies outside
both of these, and is within the Liberties of the City. The transition from Holborn borough
to the City will be noted in crossing the boundary. As it is proposed to mention the parishes
in passing through them, but not to describe their exact limitations in the body of the book,
the boundaries of the parishes are given concisely for reference on p. 100.

Kingsway, the new street from the Strand to Holborn, cuts through the selected district. It
begins in a crescent, with one end near St. Clement's Church, and the other near Wellington
Street. From the site of the Olympic Theatre it runs north, crossing High Holborn at Little
Queen Street, and continuing northward through Southampton Row. A skeleton outline of its course
is given on p. 28. This street runs roughly north and south throughout the district selected,
and dividing it east and west is the great highway, which begins as New Oxford Street, becomes
High Holborn, and continues as Holborn and Holborn Viaduct.

The tradition that Holborn is so named after a brook--the Old Bourne--which rose on the hill,
and flowed in an easterly direction into the Fleet River, cannot be sustained by any evidence
or any indications of the bed of a former stream. Stow speaks positively as to the existence
of this stream, which, he says, had in his time long been stopped up. Now, the old streams
of London have left traces either in the lanes which once formed their bed, as Marylebone Lane
and Gardener's Lane, Westminster, or their courses, having been accurately known, have been
handed on from one generation to another. We may therefore dismiss the supposed stream of the
"Old Bourne" as not proven. On the other hand, there have been found many springs and wells
in various parts of Holborn, as under Furnival's Inn, which may have seemed to Stow proof enough
of the tradition. The name of Holborn is probably derived from the bourne or brook in the "Hollow"--i.e.,
the Fleet River, across which this great roadway ran. The way is marked in Aggas's map of the
sixteenth century as a country road between fields, though, strangely enough, it is recorded
that it was paved in 1417, a very ancient date. Malcolm in 1803 calls it "an irregular long
street, narrow and inconvenient, at the north end of Fleet Market, but winding from Shoe Lane
up the hill westward."

Holborn Bars stood a little to the west of Brooke Street, and close by was Middle Row, an island
of houses opposite the end of Gray's Inn Road, which formed a great impediment to the traffic.
The Bars were the entrance to the City, and here a toll of a penny or twopence was exacted
from non-freemen who entered the City with carts or coaches.

The George and Blue Boar stood on the south side of Holborn, opposite Red Lion Street, and
it is said that it was here that Charles I.'s letter disclosing his intention to destroy Cromwell
and Ireton was intercepted by the latter; but this is very doubtful.

On Holborn Hill was the Black Swan Inn, which has been described as one of the most ancient
and magnificent places for the reception of travellers in London, and which Dr. Stukeley, with
fervent imagination, declared dated from the Conquest. Another ancient inn in Holborn was called
the Rose. It was from here that the poet Taylor started to join Charles I. in the Isle of Wight,
of which journey he says,

    "We took one coach, two coachmen, and four horses,
    And merrily from London made our courses;
    We wheeled the top of the heavy hill called Holborn,
    Up which hath been full many a sinful soul borne,"

which is quoted merely to show that there is a possible rhyme to Holborn.

Pennant says also there was a hospital for the poor in Holborn, and a cell of the House of
Clugny in France, but does not indicate their whereabouts. Before the building of the Viaduct
in 1869 (see p. 54), there was a steep and toilsome descent up and down the valley of the Fleet.
This was sometimes called "the Heavy Hill," as in the verse already quoted, and in consequence
of the melancholy processions which frequently passed from Newgate bound Tyburn-wards, "riding
in a cart up the Heavy Hill" became a euphemism for being hanged. From Farringdon Street to
Fetter Lane was Holborn Hill, and Holborn proper extended from Fetter Lane to Brooke Street.

In James II.'s reign Oates and Dangerfield suffered the punishment of being whipped at the
cart's tail all the way along Holborn.

There were Bridewell Bridge, Fleet Bridge, Fleet Lane Bridge, and Holborn Bridge across the
Fleet River. Holborn Bridge was the most northerly of the four. It was a bridge of stone, serving
for passengers from the west to the City by way of Newgate. The whole thoroughfare of Oxford
Street and Holborn is the result of the diversion of the north highway into the City from the
route by Westminster Marshes.

The antiquities of Holborn and its streets north and south are not connected with the trade
or with the municipal history of London. On the other hand, the associations of this group
of streets are full of interest. If we take the south side of the street, we find ourselves
walking past Shoe Lane, St. Andrew's Church, Thavies' Inn, Fetter Lane, Staple Inn, Barnard's
Inn, Chancery Lane, Great and Little Turnstiles, Little Queen Street, Drury Lane, and St. Giles's.
On the north side we pass Field Lane, Ely Place, Hatton Garden, Brooke Street, Furnival's Inn,
Gray's Inn, Red Lion Street, and Tottenham Court Road. All these will be found described in
detail further on. Of eminent residents in Holborn itself, Cunningham mentions Gerarde, the
author of the "Herbal"; Sir Kenelm Digby; Milton, who lived for a time in one of the houses
on the south side, looking upon Lincoln's Inn Fields; and Dr. Johnson, who lived at the sign
of the Golden Anchor, Holborn Bars. There were also the Bishops of Ely, Sir Christopher Hatton,
Francis Bacon, Sir Thomas More, Charles Dickens, Fulke Greville, Thomas Chatterton, Lord Russell,
Dr. Sacheverell, and many others.

It is necessary now, however, to leave off generalization, and to begin with a detailed account
of the parishes which fall within the district; of these, St. Giles-in-the-Fields is the most
interesting.

ST. GILES-IN-THE-FIELDS.

The name of the parish is derived from the hospital which stood on the site of the present
parish church, and was dedicated to the Greek saint St. Giles. It was at first known as St.
Giles of the Lepers, but when the hospital was demolished became St. Giles-in-the-Fields.

