  Marion's first appearance -- a humble cultivator of the earth --
  the great Cherokee war of 1761 comes on -- volunteers his services
  to his country -- is appointed a first lieutenant in the provincial line --
  commands a forlorn hope -- narrowly escapes with his life --
  the Anglo-American and the Indian forces engaged -- bloody battle --
  the Indians defeated -- their country laid waste -- peace made --
  Marion retires.

Among the Mohawks of Sparta, it was a constant practice on the birth of a male infant, to set
a military granny to examine him, as a butcher would a veal for the market, and if he were
found any ways puny, he was presently thrown into a horse pond with as little ceremony as a
blind puppy. This puny appearance continued with him till the age of twelve, when it was removed
by the following extraordinary providence.

On a trip to the West Indies, which his friends put him upon for his health's sake, the little
schooner in which he was embarked was suddenly attacked by some monstrous fish, probably a
thorn-back whale, who gave it such a terrible stroke with his tail as started a plank. The
frightened crew flew to their pumps, but in vain; for the briny flood rushed with such fury
into their vessel, that they were glad to quit her, and tumble as fast as they could into their
little jolly boat. The event showed that this was as but a leap "out of the frying pan into
the fire"; for their schooner went down so suddenly as not to give them time to take a mouthful
of food with them, not even so much as a brown biscuit or a pint of water. After three wretched
days of feverish hunger and thirst, they agreed to kill a little cabin dog who had swam to
them from the schooner just before she sunk.  On his raw flesh they feasted without restraint;
but the blood they preserved with more economy, to cool their parched lips. In a few days,
however, their own blood, for lack of cooling food, became so fiery hot as to scald their brain
to frenzy.  About the tenth day the captain and mate leaped overboard, raving mad; and the
day following the two remaining seamen expired in the bottom of the boat, piteously crying
to the last for WATER! WATER!  God of his mercy forgive me, who have so often drank of that
sweet beverage without grateful acknowledgments!  Scarcely was this melancholy scene concluded
before a vessel hove in sight, standing directly for the boat, as if purposely sent to save
the child that was tossing in it on the gloomy waves.

Little Marion was so weak that he could not stir hand or foot to climb up the side of the vessel.
The captain, however, soon had him on board; and by means of chocolate and turtle broth, sparingly
given him at first, recruited him so fast, that, by the time he reached his native shores,
he was in much better health than ever.  So that on his return to his friends, it was found,
as is often the case, that what was at first looked on as a great misfortune, had proved a
very noble blessing.  His constitution seemed renewed, his frame commenced a second and rapid
growth; while his cheeks, quitting their pale suet-colored cast, assumed a bright and healthy
olive.  According to the best accounts that I have been able to procure, Marion never thought
of another trip to sea, but continued in his native parish, in that most independent and happy
of all callings, a cultivator of the earth, till his twenty-seventh year.

A report then prevailing that the Cherokee Indians were murdering the frontier settlers, Marion
turned out with his rifle, as a volunteer under governor Lyttleton.  The affair, however, proved
to be a mere flash in the pan:  for the Cherokees finding that things were not exactly in the
train they wished, sent on a deputation with their wampum belts and peace-talks to bury the
hatchet and brighten the old chain of friendship with the whites; and the good-natured governor,
thinking them sincere, concluded a treaty with them.  The troops of course were dismissed,
and Marion returned to his plantation.

Scarcely, however, had two years elapsed, before the perfidious Cherokees broke out again in
a fresh place, killing and driving the defenceless inhabitants at a most barbarous rate. Marion
instantly flew again to the governor with the tender of his services to fight for his afflicted
countrymen.  His excellency was so pleased with this second instance of Marion's patriotism,
that he gave him a first lieutenancy in the provincial line under the brave captain William
Moultrie.  The reported force and fury of the Indians struck such a terror through the colony,
that colonel Grant (of the British) with twelve hundred regulars, was ordered out on a forced
march to succor the bleeding frontiers.

On their way they were joined at Ninety-Six, May 14, 1761, by twelve hundred provincials, all
men of surest aim with the deadly rifle.

To draw off the enemy from their murderous excursions, Col. Grant wisely determined to push
the war at once into their own country; which was no sooner discovered by them, than they instantly
collected their whole force to oppose him.  The only passage into their country was through
a dark defile or gap in the mountain, which it was resolved should be forced as rapidly as
possible. A forlorn hope of thirty brave fellows were ordered to explore the dangerous pass:
and Marion, though but a young lieutenant, had the honor to be appointed their leader.  At
the head of his command he advanced with rapidity, while the army moved on to support him.
But scarcely had they entered the gloomy defile, when, from behind the rocks and trees, a sheet
of fire suddenly blazed forth, which killed twenty-one of his men!  With the remainder, he
faced about and pushed back with all speed; whereupon great numbers of tall savages, frightfully
painted, rushed from their lurking places, and with hideous yells and uplifted tomahawks, pursued
and gained upon them so fast, that nothing but the nearness of the advanced guard saved them
from destruction.  The Anglo-American army then prepared themselves for a serious and bloody
conflict.

An enemy in such force, so well posted, and defending the only pass into their country, would,
they well knew, fight desperately. And well aware, also what slaughter would follow upon their
own defeat, they determined to yield the victory only with their lives. A long summer's day
was before them, for the sun had just risen above the hills, a bright spectator of the coming
fight.  Then, in high spirits, with justice on their side, and an approving conscience, they
cheerfully left the event to Heaven.  The British were formed in small corps, the more promptly
to support the riflemen, who led the van, and now with wide extended wings began to move. 
In a little time they came in sight of the enemy, who appeared flying backwards and forwards,
as if not well satisfied with their ground.  The provincial marksmen then rapidly advancing,
flew each to his tree, and the action began. From wing to wing, quite across the defile, the
woods appeared as if all on fire; while the incessant crash of small arms tortured the ear
like claps of sharpest thunder.  The muskets of the British, like their native bull-dogs, kept
up a dreadful roar, but scarcely did more than bark the trees, or cut off the branches above
the heads of the Indians. While, with far less noise, the fatal rifles continued to lessen
the numbers of the enemy.  The action was kept up with great spirit for nearly two hours, during
which the superiority of the American riflemen was very remarkably displayed.  For in that
time they lost only fifty-one -- whereas of the Indians there fell one hundred and three, which
so disheartened them that they fled and gave up their country to the conquerors, who prepared
immediately to enter it.

Colonel Grant had hoped to surprise their towns, but concluding that their swift-footed runners
had given the alarm, he moved on in slow marches through the wilderness towards the settlements,
thinking that by the destruction of their towns and corn-fields he should drive them into a
disposition for peace.

Marion often spoke of this part of the war, as of a transaction which he remembered with sorrow.

The reader will, however, with pleasure remember that these were the dark deeds chiefly of
a kingly government.*  A gloomy monarch, three thousand miles distant, and rolling in all the
pomps and pleasures of three millions of dollars per annum, could hardly be supposed to know
what was passing in the American wilds; but Washington had known. With bleeding heart he had
often beheld the red and white men mingling in bloody fight.  The horrors of the cruel strife
dwelt upon his troubled thoughts; and soon as God gave him power, (AS PRESIDENT OF INDEPENDENT
AMERICA,) he immediately adopted that better system which he had learnt from the gospel.  His
successors, Adams, Jefferson, and Madison, have piously pursued his plan. In place of the tomahawk,
the plough-share is sent to the poor Indians -- goods are furnished them at first cost -- letters
and morals are taught among their tribes -- and the soul of humanity is rejoiced to see the
red and white men meet together like brothers.

--
* This generalization is doubtful for the time of which Weems speaks,
  and is certainly false for some subsequent periods,
  in which Great Britain had far better relations with native peoples
  (as in Canada) than did the United States.  -- A. L., 1997.
--

By this god-like policy, the United States have not only saved an immensity of blood and treasure,
but are rapidly adding to the population and strength of the country.

Now to return to Marion's letter. --  "After burning twenty towns, and destroying thousands
of cornfields,* the army returned to Koewee, where the `Little Carpenter', a Cherokee chief,
met colonel Grant and concluded a peace."  The troops were then disbanded: and Marion returned
to his plantation in St. John's parish, where, with a few well-fed slaves, he continued to
till his parental acres, occasionally amusing himself with his gun and fishing rod, of which
he was always very fond.

--
* To this day the Indians cannot bear the name of colonel Grant;
  and whenever they see a drove of horses destroying a corn-field,
  they call out "Grant, Grant."
--

Chapter 3.

  War between England and America -- Marion appointed a captain
  in the Second South Carolina regiment -- goes with the author
  on the recruiting service -- curious anecdote of lieut. Charnock
  and captain Johnson -- some melancholy and memorable relations.

Marion continued to tread the peaceful and pleasant walks of life, as above, till the beginning
of May, 1775, when, by a vessel direct from Boston, news was brought of the gallant battle
of Lexington. Instantly the whole town and country were in a flame for war, and the legislature
being purposely convened, hastened to meet the wishes of the people, who were clamorous for
raising two regiments for the service.

On balloting for officers, Marion's ticket came out for a captaincy in the second regiment,
under command of the brave William Moultrie. In a little time my name was called out as a captain,
also, in the same regiment with Marion.  This to me, was matter of great joy, as I had long
courted the friendship of Marion.  For though he was neither handsome, nor witty, nor wealthy,
yet he was universally beloved. The fairness of his character -- his fondness for his relations
-- his humanity to his slaves -- and his bravery in the Indian war, had made him the darling
of the country.  It is not, therefore, to be wondered at, that I should have taken such a liking
to Marion, but why he should have conceived such a partiality for me, that's the question.
But it is no business of mine to solve it. However, very certain it is, that on the first moment
of our acquaintance, there was something in his eyes and looks towards me which led me to think
there must be truth in the old saying of "people's falling in love at first sight."  And when
it is considered, that strong attachments generally spring from congenialities, I must confess,
that the warm and constant friendship of Marion has ever appeared to me exceedingly flattering.

But to return to my narrative. --  Our commissions as captains, were soon made out, and signed
by the council of safety, the 21st of June, 1775.  As we were a couple of flaming patriots,
we could not bear to be idle a single moment -- marching, fighting, killing, and taking prisoners,
was all that we could think or talk of. But as all this fine sport could not be carried on
without men, nor men to be had without recruiting; recruiting, of course, appeared to be the
first act and prologue of our play.

"But what shall we do for money, captain Marion?" said I.

"Why," replied he, "we must get it from the assembly."

The assembly was accordingly applied to, but alas! "could not help us to a single dollar!"

I wonder whether posterity will ever muster faith to believe that the grey heads of South Carolina,
without a penny in pocket, ventured to war with Great Britain, the nation of the longest purse
in Europe? Surely it was of him who pitted young David with his maiden sling and pebbles against
the giant Goliath.

But though the poverty of the legislature was enough to have thrown a damp on spirits of ordinary
heat, yet to a flaming zeal like ours, it only served as water on a fiery furnace, to make
it blaze the fiercer.

"Why truly, Horry!" said Marion, "this looks unpromising, but we must not mind it my hero,
I'll tell you what -- if the assembly can't help us, we must e'en help ourselves! So come let
us try what we can do on our own credit."

"With all my heart," I replied.

So away went we to borrow money of our friends in Charleston; I mean hard money.  And hard
money it was indeed.  The gold and silver all appeared as if it had caught the instinct of
water-witches, diving at the first flash of the war, to the bottom of misers' trunks and strong
boxes. For two whole days, and with every effort we could make, we collected but the pitiful
sum of one hundred dollars!  However, fully resolved that nothing should stop us, we got our
regimentals the next morning from the tailor's, and having crammed our saddlebags with some
clean shirts, a stout luncheon of bread and cheese, and a bottle of brandy, we mounted, and
with hearts light as young lovers on a courting scheme, we dashed off to recruit our companies.
Our course was towards Georgetown, Black River, and Great Pedee.  Fortune seemed to smile on
our enterprise; for by the time we reached Pedee, we had enlisted thirty-seven men, proper
tall fellows, to whom we gave furloughs of two days to settle their affairs, and meet us at
the house of a Mr. Bass, tavern-keeper, with whom we lodged.  I should have told the reader,
that we had with us, a very spirited young fellow by the name of Charnock, who was my lieutenant.

On the second day, a captain Johnson of the militia, came to Bass's, and took lieutenant Charnock
aside, and after prattling a great deal to him about the "cursed hardship", as he was pleased
to call it, "of kidnapping poor clodhoppers at this rate," he very cavalierly offered him a
guinea for himself, and a half joe a-piece for Marion and me to let the recruits go.

Never did a poor silly puppy more completely take the wrong sow by the ear, than did Mr. captain
Johnson, in thus tampering with lieutenant Charnock. For Charnock, though remarkably good natured
and polite among men of honor, could not bear the least approach of any thing that looked like
rascality. Immediately, therefore, on hearing this infamous proposition, he brought Johnson
into the dining room where Marion and myself were sitting, and, in his presence, told us the
whole affair.

Oh that my young countrymen could all have been there, that they might have seen what a pale
trembling, pitiful figure a detected rascal makes!  I am sure they could never have lost that
blessed moment's impression in favor of truth and honor.

After much swallowing, Johnson, however, at last, got the better of his conscience, and came
on with a stout denial of the fact. Whereupon Charnock, snatching a pair of pistols, ordered
him to take one and fight him on the spot.  This being refused, the furious lieutenant instantly
fell upon him with a cane. Sensible that Johnson had very richly deserved this ignominious
chastisement, we gave him up to Charnock, who thrashed him very soundly, until, falling on
his knees, he roared out for quarter. Charnock then ordered him to be gone, but with the severest
threats in case the recruits were not forthcoming at the appointed time.

On the morrow they came, and "let the cat out of the bag."  It appeared then, that that most
worthless fellow, Johnson, had told the poor simple recruits such dreadful stories about the
war, that in their fright they had offered him all their cows and calves to get them off!

Our success in the recruiting business far exceeded our expectations, for in a very short time
we made up our full complement of sixty men each. I have often lamented it as a most serious
misfortune that we did not enlist for the war.  I am certain we could as easily have enlisted
for the war as for six months.  We should then have had a host of veterans, masters of their
dreadful art, inured to hardships, scornful of danger, and completely able to purge our country
of her cruel invaders.

As a place of greater security from the enemy's vessels, Dorchester had been pitched on as
a deposite for ammunition and military stores, and put under a guard of militia.  But fearing
that the tories might rise upon this slender force and take away our powder, an article, at
that time, of incalculable value, the council of safety advised to add a company of regulars,
under some brave and vigilant officer. Marion had the honor to be nominated to the command,
and, on the 19th of November, 1775, marched to the post, where he continued, undisturbed by
the tories, until Christmas, when he was ordered down to Charleston to put fort Johnson in
a state of defence.

About this time an affair happened in Charleston, which filled with horror all who witnessed
it.  Captain Fuller, of the second regiment, a gentleman in other respects very amiable and
exemplary, gave himself up to hard drinking, and to such an excess as brought on an inflammation
in the brain.  In this frantic state, with wild rolling eyes, and a face shockingly bloated
and red, he would behave for all the world as if he were leading his men into action.  "Come
on, my brave fellows," he would cry, "now be cool and steady -- reserve your fire till I say
the word -- now give it to them, my heroes -- hurra, they run, they run. I thank you, my lads,
for your gallantry in your country's cause."

All this time the sweat would roll in torrents down his cheeks. Then, quite exhausted, he would
fall on his knees, and with clasped hands, and eyes lifted to heaven, would pronounce the Lord's
Prayer and the creed in the most moving manner.  For several days the soldiers gathered around
him while thus employed:  and often with tears in their eyes, would observe the total ruin
which intemperance had brought upon this once elegant young gentleman. --  His friends in the
country, hearing of his deplorable condition, came and took him home, where death soon put
an end to all his miseries.

In a short time after this, our regiment was deprived of another very genteel young officer,
lieutenant Perrineau; who also fell an early sacrifice to that most shameful and detestable
practice of morning slings and mid-day draughts of strong grog.

After these two tragedies, the reader will not, I hope, be displeased with the following farce,
which was acted in fort Johnson, while Marion was repairing it, in January, 1776.  The principal
actors in it, were captain Marion, and a young lieutenant, whose name, delicacy, yet a while,
bids me suppress.  This officer, though in his person as handsome as Absalom, or the blooming
Adonis, was as destitute of soul as a monkey.  He appeared to have no idea above that of dress
and diversion: and provided he could but compass his own little pitiful ends, which were always
of the sensual sort, he cared not how shamefully he prevaricated and lied, but would wink,
and grin, and chuckle, as if he had done some great thing.  He had served under a score of
captains, who had all spoken of him as a slippery, worthless fellow, whom they knew not what
to do with.  But though most heartily despised, the fool had the vanity to think himself amazingly
clever; and actually boasted to me one day, that he would soon let me see how far he was over
my famous captain Marion's speed.  Presently he hears that there is to be, next week, a great
cock-fight at Dorchester. Instantly his childish spirits are all on a fever to see the cock-fight.
"Oh heavens! he would not miss the cock-fight for the world!" But how to obtain leave of absence
from the fort at this busy time, was the rub; however, for such means as he was capable of
using, an invention like his could not long be at a loss.  In short, he went to Marion, with
a doleful face, and in piteous accents, stated that his father, an excellent old man as ever
son was blessed with, was at his last gasp, and only wanted to see him before he died.

The generous Marion, not suspecting that so goodly an outside could cover such falsehood, did
not wait to hear the coming petition, but instantly granted his wish, unheard -- "To be sure,
lieutenant, go, by all means, go and wait upon your father; but return as soon as possible,
for you see how much we have to do."

The lieutenant affected to be quite overcome with Marion's generosity, and swore he would be
back in two days, or at farthest in three. As he stepped along by me, he thrust his tongue
into his cheek, and looked prodigiously arch, as if he had achieved a grand exploit.

As soon as he was gone, I told Marion I suspected it was all a trick. And so it turned out;
for instead of hurrying off, as he had pretended, to see his dying father, he slipt over to
Charleston, where, for fear of being seen by any of our officers, he skulked about in the lower
lanes and alleys until it was time to go up to the cock-fight at Dorchester.

At length after a fortnight's absence, he came over to the fort, and entering the marquee,
where Marion was sitting with his officers, he began to bow and scrape.  As if not perceiving
him, Marion turned his head another way.  The lieutenant then, exceedingly embarrassed, came
out with his apology, -- "I am sorry, sir, to have outstayed my time so long; but -- but I
could not help it -- but now I am returned to do my duty."

Marion turned very quickly upon him, and with a most mortifying neglect, said, "Aye, lieutenant,
is that you?  Well, never mind it -- there is no harm done -- I never missed you."

The poor lieutenant was so completely cut up, that he could not say a word, but sneaked off,
hanging down his head, and looked much more like a detected swindler than a gentleman soldier.

