The ceremonies of Holy Week at Rome have been much spoken of. Foreigners come thither during
Lent expressly to enjoy this spectacle; and as the music of the Sixtine Chapel and the illumination
of St Peter's are beauties unique in themselves, it is natural that they should excite a lively
curiosity; but expectation is not equally satisfied. The ceremonies themselves, properly speaking--the
dinner of the twelve Apostles, served by the Pope, the washing of the feet by him, and all
the different customs of this solemn season--excite very moving recollections; but a thousand
inevitable circumstances often injure the interest and the dignity of this spectacle. All those
who assist at it are not equally devout, equally occupied with pious ideas. These ceremonies,
so often repeated, have become a sort of mechanical exercise for most people, and the young
priests despatch the service of great festivals with an activity and a dexterity little calculated
to produce any religious effect. That indefinite, that unknown, that mysterious impression,
which religion ought to excite, is entirely destroyed by that species of attention which we
cannot help paying to the manner in which each acquits himself of his functions. The avidity
of some for the meats presented them, and the indifference of others in the genuflections which
they multiply and the prayers which they recite, often strip the festival of its solemnity.

The ancient costumes which still serve for the vestments of the priests, agree badly with the
modern style of treating the hair. The Greek bishop, with his long beard, has the most respectable
appearance. The ancient custom also of making a reverence after the manner of women, instead
of bowing as men do now, produces an impression by no means serious. In a word, the ensemble
is not in harmony, and the ancient is blended with the modern without sufficient care being
taken to strike the imagination, or at least to avoid all that may distract it. A worship,
dazzling and majestic in its external forms, is certainly calculated to fill the soul with
the most elevated sentiments; but care must be taken that the ceremonies do not degenerate
into a spectacle in which each one plays his part--in which each one studies what he must do
at such a moment; when he is to pray, when he is to finish his prayer; when to kneel down,
and when to get up. The regulated ceremonies of a court introduced into a temple of devotion,
confine the free movement of the heart, which can alone give man the hope of drawing near to
the Deity.

These observations are pretty generally felt by foreigners, but the Romans for the most part
do not grow weary of those ceremonies; and every year they find in them new pleasure. A singular
trait in the character of the Italians is, that their mobility does not make them inconstant,
nor does their vivacity render variety necessary to them. They are in every thing patient and
persevering; their imagination embellishes what they possess; it occupies their life instead
of rendering it uneasy; they think every thing more magnificent, more imposing, more fine,
than it really is: and whilst in other nations vanity consists in an affectation of boredom,
that of the Italians, or rather their warmth and vivacity, makes them find pleasure in the
sentiment of admiration.

Lord Nelville, from all that the Romans had said to him, expected to be more affected by the
ceremonies of Holy Week. He regretted the noble and simple festivals of the Anglican church.
He returned home with a painful impression; for nothing is more sad than not being moved by
that which ought to move us; we believe that our soul is become dry, we fear that the fire
of enthusiasm is extinguished in us, without which the faculty of thinking can only serve to
disgust us with life.

Chapter iv.

But Good Friday soon restored to Lord Nelville all those religious emotions, the want of which
he so much regretted on the preceding days. The seclusion of Corinne was about to terminate;
he anticipated the happiness of seeing her again: the sweet expectations of tender affection
accord with piety; it is only a factious, worldly life, that is entirely hostile to it. Oswald
repaired to the Sixtine Chapel to hear the celebrated miserere, so much talked of all over
Europe. He arrived thither whilst it was yet day, and beheld those celebrated paintings of
Michael Angelo, which represent the Last Judgment, with all the terrible power of the subject
and the talent which has handled it. Michael Angelo was penetrated with the study of Dante;
and the painter, in imitation of the poet, represents mythological beings in the presence of
Jesus Christ; but he always makes Paganism the evil principle, and it is under the form of
demons that he characterises the heathen fables. On the vault of the chapel are represented
the prophets, and the sybils called in testimony by the Christians,

     Teste David cum Sibyllâ.

A crowd of angels surround them; and this whole vault, painted thus, seems to bring us nearer
to heaven, but with a gloomy and formidable aspect. Hardly does daylight penetrate the windows,
which cast upon the pictures shadow rather than light. The obscurity enlarges those figures,
already so imposing, which the pencil of Michael Angelo has traced; the incense, whose perfume
has a somewhat funereal character, fills the air in this enclosure, and every sensation is
prelusive to the most profound of all--that which the music is to produce.

Whilst Oswald was absorbed by the reflections which every object that surrounded him gave birth
to, he saw Corinne, whose presence he had not hoped to behold so soon, enter the women's gallery,
behind the grating which separated it from that of the men. She was dressed in black, all pale
with absence, and trembled so when she perceived Oswald, that she was obliged to lean on the
balustrade for support as she advanced; at this moment the miserere began.

The voices, perfectly trained in this ancient song, proceeded from a gallery at the commencement
of the vault; the singers are not seen; the music seems to hover in the air; and every instant
the fall of day renders the chapel more gloomy. It was not that voluptuous and impassioned
music which Oswald and Corinne had heard eight days before; they were holy strains which counselled
mortals to renounce every earthly enjoyment. Corinne fell on her knees before the grating and
remained plunged in the most profound meditation. Oswald himself disappeared from her sight.
She thought that in such a moment one could wish to die, if the separation of the soul from
the body could take place without pain; if, on a sudden, an angel could carry away on his wings
our sentiments and our thoughts--sparks of ethereal fire, returning towards their source: death
would then be, to use the expression, only a spontaneous act of the heart, a more ardent and
more acceptable prayer.

The miserere, that is to say, have mercy on us, is a psalm, composed of verses, which are sung
alternately in a very different manner. A celestial music is heard by turns, and the verse
following, in recitative, is murmured in a dull and almost hoarse tone. One would say, that
it is the reply of harsh and stern characters to sensitive hearts; that it is the reality of
life which withers and repels the desires of generous souls. When the sweet choristers resume
their strain, hope revives; but when the verse of recitative begins, a cold sensation seizes
upon the hearer, not caused by terror, but by a repression of enthusiasm. At length, the last
piece, more noble and affecting than all the others, leaves a pure and sweet impression upon
the soul: may God vouchsafe that same impression to us before we die.

The torches are extinguished; night advances, and the figures of the prophets and the sybils
appear like phantoms enveloped in twilight. The silence is profound; a word spoken would be
insupportable in the then state of the soul, when all is intimate and internal; as soon as
the last sound expires, all depart slowly and without the least noise; each one seems to dread
the return to the vulgar interests of the world.

Corinne followed the procession, which repaired to the temple of St Peter, then lighted only
by an illuminated cross. This sign of grief, alone and shining in the august obscurity of this
immense edifice, is the most beautiful image of Christianity in the midst of the darkness of
life. A pale and distant light is cast on the statues which adorn the tombs. The living, who
are perceived in crowds beneath these vaults, seem like pigmies, compared with the images of
the dead. There is around the cross, a space which it lights up, where the Pope clad in white
is seen prostrate, with all the cardinals ranged behind him. They remain there for half an
hour in the most profound silence, and it is impossible not to be moved at this spectacle.
We know not the subject of their prayers; we hear not their secret groanings; but they are
old, they precede us in the journey to the tomb. When we in our turn pass into that terrible
advance guard, may God by his grace so ennoble our age, that the decline of life may be the
first days of immortality!

Corinne, also,--the young and beautiful Corinne,--was kneeling behind the train of priests,
and the soft light reflected on her countenance, gave it a pale hue, without diminishing the
lustre of her eyes. Oswald contemplated her as a beautiful picture--a being that inspired adoration.
When her prayer was concluded she arose. Lord Nelville dared not yet approach her, respecting
the religious meditation in which he thought her plunged; but she came to him first with a
transport of happiness; and this sentiment pervading all her actions, she received with a most
lively gaiety, all those who accosted her in St Peter's, which had become, all at once, a great
public promenade, and a rendezvous to discuss topics of business or pleasure.

Oswald was astonished at this mobility which caused such opposite impressions to succeed each
other; and though the gaiety of Corinne gave him pleasure, he was surprised to find in her
no trace of the emotions of the day. He did not conceive how, upon so solemn, a day, they could
permit this fine church to be converted into a Roman café, where people met for pleasure; and
beholding Corinne in the midst of her circle, talking with so much vivacity, and not thinking
on the objects that surrounded her, he conceived a sentiment of mistrust as to the levity of
which she might be capable. She instantly perceived it, and quitting her company abruptly,
she took the arm of Oswald to walk with him in the church, saying, "I have never held any conversation
with you upon my religious sentiments--permit me to speak a little upon that subject now; perhaps
I shall be able to dissipate those clouds which I perceive rising in your mind."

Chapter v.

"The difference of our religions, my dear Oswald," continued Corinne, "is the cause of that
secret censure which you cannot conceal from me. Yours is serious and rigid--ours, cheerful
and tender. It is generally believed that Catholicism is more rigorous than Protestantism;
and that may be true in a country where a struggle has subsisted between the two religions;
but we have no religious dissensions in Italy, and you have experienced much of them in England.
The result of this difference is, that Catholicism in Italy has assumed a character of mildness
and indulgence; and that to destroy it in England, the Reformation has armed itself with the
greatest severity in principles and morals. Our religion, like that of the ancients, animates
the arts, inspires the poets, and becomes a part, if I may so express it, of all the joys of
our life; whilst yours, establishing itself in a country where reason predominates more than
imagination, has assumed a character of moral austerity which will never leave it. Ours speaks
in the name of love, and yours in the name of duty. Our principles are liberal, our dogmas
are absolute; nevertheless, our despotic orthodoxy accommodates itself to particular circumstances,
and your religious liberty enforces obedience to its laws without any exception. It is true
that our Catholicism imposes very hard penance upon those who have embraced a monastic life.
This state, freely chosen, is a mysterious relation between man and the Deity; but the religion
of laymen in Italy is an habitual source of affecting emotions. Love, hope, and faith, are
the principal virtues of this religion, and all these virtues announce and confer happiness.
Our priests therefore, far from forbidding at any time the pure sentiment of joy, tell us that
it expresses our gratitude towards the Creator. What they exact of us, is an observance of
those practices which prove our respect for our worship, and our desire to please God, namely,
charity for the unfortunate, and repentance for our errors. But they do not refuse absolution,
when we zealously entreat it; and the attachments of the heart inspire a more indulgent pity
amongst us than anywhere else. Has not Jesus Christ said of the Magdalen: Much shall be pardoned
her, because she hath loved much? These words were uttered beneath a sky, beautiful as ours;
this same sky implores for us the Divine mercy."

"Corinne!" answered Lord Nelville, "how can I combat words so sweet, and of which my heart
stands so much in need? But I will do it, nevertheless, because it is not for a day that I
love Corinne--I expect with her a long futurity of happiness and virtue. The most pure religion
is that which makes a continual homage to the Supreme Being, by the sacrifice of our passions
and the fulfilment of our duties. A man's morality is his worship of God; and it would be degrading
the idea we form of the Creator, to suppose that He wills anything in relation with His creature,
that is not worthy of His intellectual perfection. Paternal authority, that noble image of
a master sovereignly good, demands nothing of its children that does not tend to make them
better or happier. How then can we imagine that God would exact anything from man, which has
not man himself for its object? You see also what confusion in the understandings of your people
results from the practice of attaching more importance to religious ceremonies than to moral
duties. It is after Holy Week, you know, that the greatest number of murders is committed at
Rome. The people think, to use the expression, that they have laid in a stock during Lent,
and expend in assassination the treasures of their penitence. Criminals have been seen, yet
reeking with murder, who have scrupled to eat meat on a Friday; and gross minds, who have been
persuaded that the greatest of crimes consists in disobeying the discipline of the church,
exhaust their consciences on this head, and conceive that the Deity, like human sovereigns,
esteems submission to his power more than every other virtue. This is to substitute the sycophancy
of a courtier for the respect which the Creator inspires, as the source and reward of a scrupulous
and delicate life. Catholicism in Italy, confining itself to external demonstrations, dispenses
the soul from meditation and self-contemplation. When the spectacle is over, the emotion ceases,
the duty is fulfilled, and one is not, as with us, a long time absorbed in thoughts and sentiments,
which give birth to a rigid examination of one's conduct and heart."

"You are severe, my dear Oswald," replied Corinne; "it is not the first time I have remarked
it. If religion consisted only in a strict observance of moral duties, in what would it be
superior to reason and philosophy? And what sentiments of piety could we discover, if our principal
aim were to stifle the feelings of the heart? The stoics were as enlightened as we, as to the
duties and the austerity of human conduct; but that which is peculiar to Christianity is the
religious enthusiasm which blends with every affection of the soul; it is the power of love
and pity; it is the worship of sentiment and of indulgence, so favourable to the flights of
the soul towards heaven. How are we to interpret the parable of the Prodigal Son, if not that
love, sincere love, is preferred even to the most exact discharge of every duty? This son had
quitted his paternal abode, and his brother had remained there; he had plunged into all the
dissipation and pleasure of the world, and his brother had never deviated for a single moment
from the regularity of domestic life; but he returned, full of love for his father and of repentance
for his past follies, and his parent celebrated this return by a festival. Ah! can it be doubted
that among the mysteries of our nature, to love and to love again is what remains to us of
our celestial inheritance? Even our virtues are often too complicated with life, for us to
comprehend the gradations of good, and what is the secret sentiment that governs and leads
us astray: I ask of my God to teach me to adore him, and I feel the effect of my prayers in
the tears that I shed. But to support this disposition of the soul, religious practices are
more necessary than you think; they are a constant communication with the Deity; they are daily
actions, unconnected with the interests of life and solely directed towards the invisible world.
External objects are also a great help to piety; the soul falls back upon itself, if the fine
arts, great monuments, and harmonic strains, do not reanimate that poetical genius, which is
synonymous with religious inspiration.

"The most vulgar man, when he prays, when he suffers, and places hope in heaven, has at that
moment something in him which he would express like Milton, Homer, or Tasso, if education had
taught him to clothe his thoughts with words. There are only two distinct classes of men in
the world; those who feel enthusiasm, and those who despise it; every other difference is the
work of society. The former cannot find words to express their sentiments, and the latter know
what it is necessary to say to conceal the emptiness of their heart. But the spring that bursts
from the rock at the voice of heaven, that spring is the true talent, the true religion, the
true love.

"The pomp of our worship; those pictures in which the kneeling saints express a continual prayer
in their looks; those statues placed on the tombs as if they were one day to rise with their
inhabitants; those churches and their immense domes, have an intimate connection with religious
ideas. I like this splendid homage paid by men to that which promises them neither fortune
nor power--to that which neither punishes nor rewards them, but by a sentiment of the heart.
I then feel more proud of my being; I recognise something disinterested in man; and were even
religious magnificence multiplied to an extreme, I should love that prodigality of terrestrial
riches for another life, of time for eternity: enough is provided for the morrow, enough care
is taken for the economy of human affairs. How I love the useless, useless if existence be
only a painful toil for a miserable gain! But if on this earth we are journeying towards heaven,
what can we do better than to take every means of elevating our soul, that it may feel the
infinite, the invisible, and the eternal, in the midst of all the limits that surround us?

"Jesus Christ permitted a weak, and perhaps, repentant woman, to anoint His feet with the most
precious perfumes, and repulsed those who advised that those perfumes should be reserved for
a more profitable use. "Let her alone" said He, "for I am only with you for a short time."
Alas! all that is good and sublime upon earth is only with us for a short time; age, infirmity,
and death, would soon dry up that drop of dew which falls from heaven and only rests upon the
flowers. Let us then, dear Oswald, confound everything,--love, religion, genius, the sun, the
perfumes, music, and poetry: atheism only consists in coldness, egotism, and baseness. Jesus
Christ has said: When two or three are gathered together in my name, I will be in the midst
of them. And what is it O God! to be assembled in Thy name, if it be not to enjoy Thy sublime
gifts, and to offer Thee our homage, to thank Thee for that existence which Thou hast given
us; above all, to thank Thee, when a heart, also created by Thee is perfectly responsive to
our own?"

At this moment a celestial inspiration animated the countenance of Corinne. Oswald could hardly
refrain from falling on his knees before her in the midst of the temple, and was silent for
a long time to indulge in the pleasure of recalling her words and retracing them still in her
looks. At last he set about replying; for he would not abandon a cause that was dear to him.
"Corinne," said he, then, "indulge your lover with a few words more. His heart is not dry;
no, Corinne, believe me it is not, and if I am an advocate for austerity in principle and action,
it is because it renders sentiment more deep and permanent. If I love reason in religion, that
is to say, if I reject contradictory dogmas and human means of producing effect upon men, it
is because I perceive the Deity in reason as well as in enthusiasm; and if I cannot bear that
man should be deprived of any one of his faculties, it is because I conceive them all barely
sufficient to comprehend truths which reflection reveals to him, as well as the instinct of
the heart, namely, the existence of God, and the immortality of the soul. What can be added
to these sublime ideas, to their union with virtue? What can we add thereto that is not beneath
them? The poetical enthusiasm which gives you so many charms, is not, I venture to assert,
the most salutary devotion. Corinne, how could we by this disposition prepare for the innumerable
sacrifices which duty exacts of us! There was no revelation, except by the flights of the soul,
when human destiny, present and future, only revealed itself to the mind through clouds; but
for us, to whom Christianity has rendered it clear and positive, feeling may be our recompense,
but ought not to be our only guide: you describe the existence of the blessed, not that of
mortals. Religious life is a combat, not a hymn. If we were not condemned in this world to
repress the evil inclinations of others and of ourselves, there would in truth be no distinction
to be made except between cold and enthusiastic souls. But man is a harsher and more formidable
creature than your heart paints him to you; and reason in piety, and authority in duty, are
a necessary curb to the wanderings of his pride.

"In whatever manner you may consider the external pomp and multiplied ceremonies of your religion,
believe me, my love, the contemplation of the universe and its author, will be always the chief
worship; that which will fill the imagination, without any thing futile or absurd being found
in it upon investigation. Those dogmas which wound my reason also cool my enthusiasm. Undoubtedly
the world, such as it is, is a mystery which we can neither deny nor comprehend; it would therefore
be foolish to refuse credence to what we are unable to explain; but that which is contradictory
is always of human creation. The mysteries of heavenly origin are above the lights of the mind;
but not in opposition to them. A German philosopher[31] has said: I know but two beautiful
things in the universe: the starry sky above our heads, and the sentiment of duty in our hearts.
In truth all the wonders of the creation are comprised in these words.

"So far from a simple and severe religion searing our hearts, I should have thought, before
I had known you, Corinne, that it was the only one which could concentrate and perpetuate the
affections. I have seen the most pure and austere conduct unfold in a man the most inexhaustible
tenderness. I have seen him preserve even to old age, a virginity of soul, which the passions
and their criminal effects would necessarily have withered. Undoubtedly repentance is a fine
thing, and I have more need than any person to believe in its efficacy; but repeated repentance
fatigues the soul--this sentiment can only regenerate once. It is the redemption which is accomplished
at the bottom of our soul, and this great sacrifice cannot be renewed. When human weakness
is accustomed to it, the power to love is lost; for power is necessary in order to love, at
least with constancy.

"I shall offer some objections of the same kind to that splendid form of worship, which according
to you, acts so powerfully upon the imagination. I believe the imagination to be modest, and
retired as the heart. The emotions which are imposed on it, are less powerful than those born
of itself. I have seen in the Cevennes, a Protestant minister who preached towards the evening
in the heart of the mountains. He invoked the tombs of the French, banished and proscribed
by their brethren, whose ashes had been assembled together in this spot. He promised their
friends that they should meet them again in a better world. He said that a virtuous life secured
us this happiness; he said: do good to mankind, that God may heal in your heart the wound of
grief. He testified his astonishment at the inflexibility and hard-heartedness of man, the
creature of a day, to his fellow man equally with himself the creature of a day, and seized
upon that terrible idea of death, which the living have conceived, but which they will never
be able to exhaust. In short, he said nothing that was not affecting and true: his words were
perfectly in harmony with nature. The torrent which was heard in the distance, the scintillating
light of the stars, seemed to express the same thought under another form. The magnificence
of nature was there, that magnificence, which can feast the soul without offending misfortune;
and all this imposing simplicity, touched the soul more deeply than dazzling ceremonies could
have done."

On the second day after this conversation, Easter Sunday, Corinne and Lord Nelville went together
to the square of St Peter, at the moment when the Pope appears upon the most elevated balcony
of the church, and asks of heaven that benediction which he is about to bestow on the land;
when he pronounces these words, urbi et orbi (to the city and to the world)--all the assembled
people fell on their knees, and Corinne and Lord Nelville felt, by the emotion which they experienced
at this moment, that all forms of worship resemble each other. The religious sentiment intimately
unites men among themselves, when self-love and fanaticism do not make it an object of jealousy
and hatred. To pray together in the same language, whatever be the form of worship, is the
most pathetic bond of fraternity, of hope, and of sympathy, which men can contract upon earth.

FOOTNOTE:

[31] Kant.

Chapter vi.

Easter-Day was passed, and Corinne took no notice of the fulfilment of her promise to confide
her history to Lord Nelville. Wounded by this silence, he said one day before her that he had
heard much of the beauty of Naples, and that he had a mind to visit it. Corinne, discovering
in a moment what was passing in his soul, proposed to perform the journey with him. She flattered
herself that she, should be able to postpone the confession which he required of her, by giving
him this satisfying proof of her love. And besides she thought that if he should take her with
him, it would be without doubt because he desired to consecrate his life to her. She waited
then with anxiety for what he should say to her, and her almost suppliant looks seemed to entreat
a favourable answer. Oswald could not resist; he had at first been surprised at this offer
and the simplicity with which Corinne made it, and hesitated for some time before he accepted
it; but beholding the agitation of her he loved, her palpitating bosom, her eyes suffused with
tears, he consented to set out with her, without reflecting upon the importance of such a resolution.
Corinne was elevated to the summit of joy; for at this moment her heart entirely relied on
the passion of Oswald.

The day was fixed upon, and the sweet perspective of their journey together made every other
idea disappear. They amused themselves with settling the details of their journey, and every
one of these details was a source of pleasure. Happy disposition of the soul, in which all
the arrangements of life have a particular charm, from their connection with some hope of the
heart! That moment arrives only too soon, when each hour of our existence is as fatiguing as
its entirety, when every morning requires an effort to support the awakening and to guide the
day to its close.

The moment Lord Nelville left Corinne's house in order to prepare every thing for their departure,
the Count d'Erfeuil arrived, and learnt from her the project which they had just determined
on.--"Surely you don't think of such a thing!" said he, "what! travel with Lord Nelville without
his being your husband! without his having promised to marry you! And what will you do if he
abandon you?" "Why," replied Corinne, "in any situation of life if he were to cease to love
me, I should be the most wretched creature in the world!" "Yes, but if you have done nothing
to compromise your character, you will remain entirely yourself."--"Remain entirely myself,
when the deepest sentiment of my life shall be withered? when my heart shall be broken?"--"The
public will not know it, and by a little dissimulation you would lose nothing in the general
opinion." "And why should I take pains to preserve that opinion," replied Corinne, "if not
to gain an additional charm in the eyes of him I love?"--"We may cease to love," answered the
Count, "but we cannot cease to live in the midst of society, and to need its services."--"Ah!
if I could think," retorted Corinne, "that that day would arrive when Oswald's affection would
not be all in all to me in this world; if I could believe it, I should already have ceased
to love. What is love when it anticipates and reckons upon the moment when it shall no longer
exist? If there be any thing religious in this sentiment, it is because it makes every other
interest disappear, and, like devotion, takes a pleasure in the entire sacrifice of self."

"What is that you tell me?" replied the Count d'Erfeuil, "can such an intellectual lady as
you fill her head with such nonsense? It is the advantage of us men that women think as you
do--we have thus more ascendancy over you; but your superiority must not be lost, it must be
serviceable to you." "Serviceable to me?" said Corinne, "Ah! I owe it much, if it has enabled
me to feel more acutely all that is interesting and generous in the character of Lord Nelville."--"Lord
Nelville is like other men," said the Count; "he will return to his native country, he will
pursue his profession; in short he will recover his reason, and you would imprudently expose
your reputation by going to Naples with him."--"I am ignorant of the intentions of Lord Nelville,"
observed Corinne, "and perhaps I should have done better to have reflected more deeply before
I had let him obtain such power over my heart; but now, what signifies one more sacrifice!
Does not my life depend on his love? I feel pleasure, on the contrary, in leaving myself no
resource;--there is none when the heart is wounded; nevertheless, the world may sometimes think
the contrary, and I love to reflect that even in this respect my calamity would be complete,
if Lord Nelville were to leave me!"--"And does he know how you expose yourself on his account?"
proceeded d'Erfeuil.--"I have taken great care to conceal it from him," answered Corinne, "and
as he is not well acquainted with the customs of this country, I have a little exaggerated
to him the latitude of conduct which they allow. I must exact from you a promise, that you
will never undeceive him in this respect--I wish him to be perfectly free, he can never make
me happy by any kind of sacrifice. The sentiment which renders me happy is the flower of my
life; were it once to decay, neither kindness nor delicacy could revive it. I conjure you then,
my dear Count, not to interfere with my destiny; no opinion of yours upon the affections of
the heart can possibly apply to me. Your observations are very prudent, very sensible, and
extremely applicable to the situations of ordinary life; but you would innocently do me a great
injury, in attempting to judge of my character in the same manner as large bodies of people
are judged, for whom there are maxims ready made. My sufferings, my enjoyments, and my feelings,
are peculiar to myself, and whoever would influence my happiness must contemplate me alone,
unconnected with the rest of the world."

The self-love of Count d'Erfeuil was a little wounded by the inutility of his counsels, and
the decided proof of her affection for Lord Nelville which Corinne gave him. He knew very well
that he himself was not beloved by her, he knew equally that Oswald was; but it was unpleasant
to him to hear this so openly avowed. There is always something in the favour which a man finds
in a lady's sight, that offends even his best friends.--"I see that I can do nothing for you,"
said the Count; "but should you become very unhappy you will think of me; in the meantime,
I am going to leave Rome, for since you and Lord Nelville are about to quit it, I should be
too much bored in your absence. I shall certainly see you both again, either in Scotland or
Italy; for since I can do nothing better with myself, I have acquired a taste for travelling.
Forgive my having taken the liberty to counsel you, charming Corinne, and believe me ever devoted
to you!"--Corinne thanked him, and separated with a sentiment of regret. Her acquaintance with
him commenced at the same time as with Oswald, and this remembrance formed a tie between them
which she did not like to see broken. She conducted herself agreeably to what she had declared
to the Count. Some uneasiness disturbed for a moment the joy with which Lord Nelville had accepted
the project of the journey. He feared that their departure for Naples might injure Corinne,
and wished to obtain her secret before they went, in order to know with certainty whether some
invincible obstacle to their union might not exist; but she declared to him that she would
not relate her history till they arrived at Naples, and sweetly deceived him, as to what the
public opinion would be on her conduct. Oswald yielded to the illusion. In a weak and undecided
character, love half deceives, reason half enlightens, and it is the present emotion that decides
which of the two halves shall be the whole. The mind of Lord Nelville was singularly expansive
and penetrating; but he only formed a correct judgment of himself in reviewing his past conduct.
He never had but a confused idea of his present situation. Susceptible at once of transport
and remorse, of passion and timidity, those contrasts did not permit him to know himself till
the event had decided the combat that was taking place within him.

When the friends of Corinne, particularly Prince Castel-Forte, were informed of her project,
they felt considerably chagrined. Prince Castel-Forte was so much pained at it, that he resolved
in a short time to go and join her. There was certainly no vanity in thus filling up the train
of a favoured lover; but he could not support the dreadful void which he would find in the
absence of Corinne. He had no acquaintances but the circle he met at her house; and he never
entered any other. The company which assembled around her would disperse when she should be
no longer there; and it would be impossible to collect together the fragments. Prince Castel-Forte
was little accustomed to domestic life: though possessing a good share of intellect, he did
not like the fatigue of study; the whole day therefore would have been an insufferable weight
to him, if he had not come, morning and evening, to visit Corinne. She was about to depart--he
knew not what to do; however he promised himself in secret to approach her as a friend, who
indulged in no pretensions, but who was ever at hand to offer his consolation in the moment
of misfortune; such a friend may be sure that his hour will come.

Corinne felt oppressed with melancholy in thus breaking all her former connections; she had
led for some years in Rome a manner of life that pleased her. She was the centre of attraction
to every artist and to every enlightened man. A perfect independence of ideas and habits gave
many charms to her existence: what was to become of her now? If destined to the happiness of
espousing Oswald, he would take her to England, and what would she be thought of there; how
would she be able to confine herself to a mode of existence so different from what she had
known for six years past! But these sentiments only passed through her mind, and her passion
for Oswald always obliterated every trace of them. She saw, she heard him, and only counted
the hours by his absence or his presence. Who can dispute with happiness? Who does not welcome
it when it comes? Corinne was not possessed of much foresight--neither fear nor hope existed
for her; her faith in the future was vague, and in this respect her imagination did her little
good, and much harm.

On the morning of her departure, Prince Castel-Forte visited her, and said with tears in his
eyes: "Will you not return to Rome?" "Oh, Mon Dieu, yes!" replied she, "we shall be back in
a month."--"But if you marry Lord Nelville you must leave Italy!" "Leave Italy!" said Corinne,
with a sigh.--"This country," continued Prince Castel-Forte, "where your language is spoken,
where you are so well known, where you are so warmly admired, and your friends, Corinne--your
friends! Where will you be beloved as you are here? Where will you find that perfection of
the imagination and the fine arts, so congenial to your soul? Is then our whole life composed
of one sentiment? Is it not language, customs, and manners, that compose the love of our country;
that love which creates a home sickness so terrible to the exile?" "Ah, what is it you tell
me," cried Corinne, "have I not felt it? Is it not that which has decided my fate?"--She regarded
mournfully her room and the statues that adorned it, then the Tiber which rolled its waves
beneath her windows, and the sky whose beauty seemed to invite her to stay. But at that moment
Oswald crossed the bridge of St Angelo on horseback, swift as lightning. "There he is!" cried
Corinne. Hardly had she uttered these words, when he was already arrived,--she ran to meet
him, and both impatient to set out hastened to ascend the carriage. Corinne, however, took
a kind farewell of Prince Castel-Forte; but her obliging expressions were lost in the midst
of the cries of postillions, the neighing of horses, and all that bustle of departure, sometimes
sad, and sometimes intoxicating, according to the fear or the hope which the new chances of
destiny inspire.

Book xi.

NAPLES AND THE HERMITAGE OF ST SALVADOR.

Chapter i.

Oswald was proud of carrying off his conquest; he who felt himself almost always disturbed
in his enjoyments by reflections and regrets, for once did not experience the pangs of uncertainty.
It was not that he was decided, but he did not think about it and followed the tide of events
hoping it would lead him to the object of his wishes.

They traversed the district of Albano[32], where is still shown what is believed to be the
tomb of the Horatii and the Curiatii. They passed near the lake of Nemi and the sacred woods
that surround it. It is said that Hippolitus was resuscitated by Diana in these parts; she
would not permit horses to approach it, and by this prohibition perpetuated the memory of her
young favourite's misfortune. Thus in Italy our memory is refreshed by History and Poetry almost
at every step, and the charming situations which recall them, soften all that is melancholy
in the past, and seem to preserve an eternal youth.

Oswald and Corinne traversed the Pontine marshes--a country at once fertile and pestilential,--where,
with all the fecundity of nature, a single habitation is not to be found. Some sickly men change
your horses, recommending to you not to sleep in passing the marshes; for sleep there is really
the harbinger of death. The plough which some imprudent cultivators will still sometimes guide
over this fatal land, is drawn by buffaloes, in appearance at once mean and ferocious, whilst
the most brilliant sun sheds its lustre on this melancholy spectacle. The marshy and unwholesome
parts in the north are announced by their repulsive aspect; but in the more fatal countries
of the south, nature preserves a serenity, the deceitful mildness of which is an illusion to
travellers. If it be true that it is very dangerous to sleep in crossing the Pontine marshes,
their invincible soporific influence in the heat of the day is one of those perfidious impressions
which we receive from this spot. Lord Nelville constantly watched over Corinne. Sometimes she
leant her head on Theresa who accompanied them; sometimes she closed her eyes, overcome by
the languor of the air. Oswald awakened her immediately, with inexpressible terror; and though
he was naturally taciturn, he was now inexhaustible in subjects of conversation, always well
supported and always new, to prevent her from yielding to this fatal sleep. Ah! should we not
pardon the heart of a woman the cruel regret which attaches to those days when she was beloved,
when her existence was so necessary to that of another, when at every moment she was supported
and protected? What isolation must succeed this season of delight! How happy are they whom
the sacred hand of Hymen has conducted from love to friendship, without one painful moment
having embittered their course!

Oswald and Corinne, after the anxious passage of the marshes, at length arrived at Terracina,
on the sea coast, near the confines of the kingdom of Naples. It is there that the south truly
begins; it is there that it receives travellers in all its magnificence. Naples, that happy
country, is, as it were, separated from the rest of Europe by the sea which surrounds it and
by that dangerous district which must be passed in order to arrive at it. One would say that
nature, wishing to secure to herself this charming abode, has designedly made all access to
it perilous. At Rome we are not yet in the south; we have there a foretaste of its sweets,
but its enchantment only truly begins in the territory of Naples. Not far from Terracina is
the promontory fixed upon by the poets as the abode of Circe: and behind Terracina rises Mount
Anxur, where Theodoric, king of the Goths, had placed one of those strong castles with which
the northern warriors have covered the earth. There are few traces of the invasion of Italy
by the barbarians; or at least, where those traces consist in devastation, they are confounded
with the effects of time. The northern nations have not given to Italy that warlike aspect
which Germany has preserved. It seems that the gentle soil of Ausonia was unable to support
the fortifications and citadels which bristle in northern countries. Rarely is a Gothic edifice
or a feudal castle to be met with here; and the monuments of the ancient Romans reign alone
triumphant over Time, and the nations by whom they have been conquered.

The whole mountain which dominates Terracina, is covered with orange and lemon trees, which
embalm the air in a delicious manner. There is nothing in our climate that resembles the southern
perfume of lemon trees in the open air; it produces on the imagination almost the same effect
as melodious music; it gives a poetic disposition to the soul, stimulates genius, and intoxicates
with the charms of nature. The aloe and the broad-leaved cactus, which are met here at every
step, have a peculiar aspect, which brings to mind all that we know of the formidable productions
of Africa. These plants inspire a sort of terror: they seem to belong to a violent and despotic
nature. The whole aspect of the country is foreign: we feel ourselves in another world, a world
which is only known by the descriptions of the ancient poets, who have at the same time so
much imagination and so much exactness in their descriptions. On entering Terracina, the children
threw into the carriage of Corinne an immense quantity of flowers which they gather by the
road-side or on the mountain, and which they carelessly scatter about; such is their reliance
on the prodigality of nature! The carts which bring home the harvest from the fields are every
day ornamented with garlands of roses, and sometimes the children surround the cups they drink
out of with flowers; for beneath such a sky the imagination of the common people becomes poetical.
By the side of these smiling pictures the sea, whose billows lashed the shore with fury, was
seen and heard. It was not agitated by the storm; but by the rocks which stand in habitual
opposition to its waves, irritating its grandeur.

     E non udite ancor come risuona
     Il roco ed alto fremito marino?

And do you not hear still the hoarse and deep roar of the sea?

This motion without aim, this strength without object which is renewed throughout eternity
without our being able to discover either its cause or its end, attracts us to the shore, where
this grand spectacle offers itself to our sight; and we experience, as it were, a desire mingled
with terror, to approach the waves and to deaden our thoughts by their tumult.

Towards the evening all was calm. Corinne and Lord Nelville walked into the country; they proceeded
with a slow pace silently enjoying the scene before them. Each step they took crushed the flowers
and extorted from them their delicious perfumes; the nightingales, resting on the rose-bushes,
willingly lent their song, so that the purest melodies were united to the most delicious odours;
all the charms of nature mutually attracted each other, while the softness of the air was beyond
expression. When we contemplate a fine view in the north, the climate in some degree disturbs
the pleasure which it inspires: those slight sensations of cold and humidity are like a false
note in a concert, and more or less distract your attention from what you behold; but in approaching
Naples you experience the friendly smiles of nature, so perfectly and without alloy, that nothing
abates the agreeable sensations which they cause you. All the relations of man in our climate
are with society. Nature, in hot countries, puts us in relation with external objects, and
our sentiments sweetly expand. Not but that the south has also its melancholy. In what part
of the earth does not human destiny produce this impression? But in this melancholy there is
neither discontent, anxiety, nor regret. In other countries it is life, which, such as it is,
does not suffice for the faculties of the soul; here the faculties of the soul do not suffice
for life, and the superabundance of sensation inspires a dreamy indolence, which we can hardly
account for when oppressed with it.

During the night, flies of a shining hue fill the air; one would say that the mountain emitted
sparks of fire, and that the burning earth had let loose some of its flames. These insects
fly through the trees, sometimes repose on the leaves, and the wind blows these minute stars
about, varying in a thousand ways their uncertain light. The sand also contained a great number
of metallic stones, which sparkled on every side: it was the land of fire, still preserving
in its bosom the traces of the sun, whose last rays had just warmed it. There is a life, and
at the same time, a repose, in this nature, which entirely satisfies the various desires of
human existence.

Corinne abandoned herself to the charms of this evening, and was penetrated with joy; nor could
Oswald conceal the emotion they inspired--many times he pressed Corinne to his heart, many
times he drew back from her, then returned, then drew back again out of respect to her who
was to be the companion of his life. Corinne felt no alarm, for such was her esteem for Oswald,
that if he had demanded the entire surrender of her being she would have considered that request
as a solemn vow to espouse her; but she saw him triumph over himself, and this conquest was
an honour paid her; whilst her heart felt that plenitude of happiness, and of love, which does
not permit us to form another desire. Oswald was far from being so calm: he was fired with
the charms of Corinne. Once he threw himself at her feet with violence, and seemed to have
lost all empire over his passion; but Corinne regarded him with such an expression of sweetness
and fear, she made him so sensible of his power while beseeching him not to abuse it, that
this humble entreaty inspired him with more respect than any other could possibly have done.

