The three winter months are June, July, and August. During this interval the mornings and evenings
are very chilly, and the nights excessively cold. Hoar frosts are frequent, and become more
severe the further you advance into the interior. Ice half an inch thick is found at the distance
of twenty miles from the coast. Very little rain falls at this season, but the dews are very
heavy when it does not freeze, and tend considerably to preserve the young crops from the effects
of drought. Fogs too are frequent and dense in low damp situations, and on the banks of the
rivers. The mean temperature at day-light is from 40 degrees to 45 degrees, and at noon from
55 degrees to 60 degrees.

The spring months are September, October, and November. In the beginning of September the fogs
still continue; the nights are cold, but the days clear and pleasant. Towards the close of
this month the cold begins very sensibly to moderate. Light showers occasionally prevail, accompanied
with thunder and lightning. The thermometer at the beginning of the month is seldom above 60
degrees at noon, but towards the end frequently rises to 70 degrees.

In October there are also occasional showers, but the weather upon the whole is clear and pleasant.
The days gradually become warmer, and the blighting north-west winds are to be apprehended.
The sea and land breezes again resume their full sway. The thermometer at sun-rise varies from
60 degrees to 65 degrees, and at noon is frequently up to 80 degrees.

In November the weather may be again called hot. Dry parching winds prevail as the month advances,
and squalls of thunder and lightning with rain or hail. The thermometer at day-light is seldom
under 65 degrees, and frequently at noon rises to 80 degrees, 84 degrees, and even 90 degrees.

Such is the temperature throughout the year at Port Jackson. In the inland districts to the
eastward of the mountains, the thermometer is upon an average 5 degrees lower in the morning,
and the same number of degrees higher at noon throughout the winter season, but during the
summer months it is 5 degrees higher at all hours of the day. On the mountains themselves,
and in the country to the westward of them, the climate, in consequence of their superior elevation,
is much more temperate. Heavy falls of snow take place during the winter, and remain sometimes
for many days on the summits of the loftiest hills; but in the valleys the snow immediately
dissolves. The frosts too are much more severe, and the winters are of longer duration. All
the seasons indeed are more distinctly marked to the westward of the mountains, and bear a
much stronger resemblance to the corresponding ones in this country.

From the foregoing account of the state of the weather and temperature during the various seasons
of the year, it will be seen that the climate of the colony is upon the whole highly salubrious
and delightful. If the summers are occasionally a little too hot for the European constitution,
it will be remembered that the extreme heats which I have noticed as happening during the north-west
winds, are of but short continuance; and that the sea and land breezes, which prevail at this
season in an almost uninterrupted succession, moderate the temperature so effectually, that
even new comers are but little incommoded by it, and the old residents experience no inconvenience
from it whatever. The sea breeze indeed is not so sensibly felt in the interior as on the coast,
by reason of the great extent of forest which it has to traverse before the inhabitants of
the inland districts can receive the benefit of it. This circumstance not only diminishes its
force, but also deprives it in a great measure of that refreshing coolness which it imparts
when inhaled fresh from the bosom of the ocean. The heat consequently in the interior, particularly
in low situations, is much more intense than on the coast; but by way of compensation for the
advantage which in this respect the districts in the vicinity of the sea possess over the inland
ones, these latter are from the same causes that impede the approach of the sea breeze, exempt
from the sudden and violent variations of temperature, which are occasioned by the southerly
winds, and are without doubt the reason why pulmonic affections are so much more prevalent
in Sydney than in the interior. The hot season, however, which is undoubtedly the most unhealthy
part of the year, does not, as will have been perceived, continue above four months. The remaining
eight possess a temperature so highly moderate and congenial to the human constitution, that
the climate of this colony would upon the whole, appear to justify the glowing enthusiasm of
those who have ventured to call it the Montpellier of the world.

Abdominal and pulmonic complains are the two prevalent diseases. The abdominal complaints are
confined principally to dysentery. This disorder is most common among the poorer classes and
new comers. In these it is generally intimately connected with scurvy, and in both cases it
is for the most part greatly aggravated by the excessive use of spirituous liquors, to which
the mass of the colonists are unfortunately addicted.

The pulmonic affections are generally contracted at an early period by the youth of both sexes,
and are occasioned by the great and sudden variations of temperature already noticed. They
are not, however, accompanied with that violent inflammatory action which distinguishes them
in this country; but proceed slowly and gradually, till from neglect they terminate in phthisis.
They are said to bear a strong affinity to the complaint of the same nature which prevails
at the Island of Madeira; and it is remarkable, that in both these colonies a change of air
affords the only chance of restoration to the natives; whereas foreigners labouring under phthisis
upon their arrival in either of these places, find almost instantaneous relief.

There are no infantile diseases whatever. The measles, hooping cough, and small pox, are entirely
unknown. Some few years, indeed, before the foundation of this colony, the small pox committed
the most dreadful ravages among the aborigines. This exterminating scourge is said to have
been introduced by Captain Cook, and many of the contemporaries of those who fell victims to
it, are still living; and the deep furrows which remain in some of their countenances, shew
how narrowly they escaped the same premature destiny.

This fatal instance of the inveteracy of this disorder, when once introduced into the colony,
has not been without its counterpoising benefit. It has induced the local government to adopt
proper measures for avoiding the propagation of a similar contagion among the colonists. The
vaccine matter was introduced with this view many years back; but as all the children in the
colony were immediately inoculated, it was again lost from the want of a sufficient number
of subjects to afford a supply of fresh virus; and for many years afterwards, every effort
that was made for its re-introduction proved abortive. Through the indefatigable exertions,
however, of Doctor Burke, of the Mauritius, the colonists are again in possession of this inestimable
blessing; and there can be no doubt that proper precautions will be taken to prevent them from
being again deprived of it.

The colony of New South Wales possesses every variety of soil, from the sandy heath, and the
cold hungry clay, to the fertile loam and the deep vegetable mould. For the distance of five
or six miles from the coast, the land is in general extremely barren, being a poor hungry sand,
thickly studded with rocks. A few miserable stunted gums, and a dwarf underwood, are the richest
productions of the best part of it; while the rest never gives birth to a tree at all, and
is only covered with low flowering shrubs, whose infinite diversity, however, and extraordinary
beauty, render this wild heath the most interesting part of the country for the botanist, and
make even the less scientific beholder forget the nakedness and sterility of the scene.

Beyond this barren waste, which thus forms a girdle to the coast, the country suddenly begins
to improve. The soil changes to a thin layer of vegetable mould, resting on a stratum of yellow
clay, which is again supported by a deep bed of schistus. The trees of the forest are here
of the most stately dimensions. Full sized gums and iron barks, along side of which the loftiest
trees in this country would appear as pigmies, with the beefwood tree, or as it is generally
termed, the forest oak, which is of much humbler growth, are the usual timber. The forest is
extremely thick, but there is little or no underwood. A poor sour grass, which is too effectually
sheltered from the rays of the sun, to be possessed of any nutritive and fattening properties,
shoots up in the intervals. This description of country, with a few exceptions, however, which
deserve not to be particularly noticed, forms another girdle of about ten miles in breadth:
so that, generally speaking, the colony for about sixteen miles into the interior, may be said
to possess a soil, which has naturally no claim to fertility, and will require all the skill
and industry of its owners to render it even tolerably productive.

At this distance, however, the aspect of the country begins rapidly to improve. The forest
is less thick, and the trees in general are of another description; the iron barks, yellow
gums, and forest oaks disappearing, and the stringy barks, blue gums, and box trees, generally
usurping their stead. When you have advanced about four miles further into the interior, you
are at length gratified with the appearance of a country truly beautiful. An endless variety
of hill and dale, clothed in the most luxuriant herbage, and covered with bleating flocks and
lowing herds, at length indicate that you are in regions fit to be inhabited by civilized man.
The soil has no longer the stamp of barrenness. A rich loam resting on a substratum of fat
red clay, several feet in depth, is found even on the tops of the highest hills, which in general
do not yield in fertility to the vallies. The timber, strange as it may appear, is of inferior
size, though still of the same nature, i. e. blue gum, box, and stringy bark. There is no underwood,
and the number of trees upon an acre do not upon an average exceed thirty. They are, in fact,
so thin, that a person may gallop without difficulty in every direction. Coursing the kangaroo
is the favourite amusement of the colonists, who generally pursue this animal at full speed
on horseback, and frequently manage, notwithstanding its extraordinary swiftness, to be up
at the death; so trifling are the impediments occasioned by the forest.

The above general description may be applied with tolerable accuracy, to the whole tract of
country which lies between this space and the Nepean River. The plains, however, on the banks
of this river, which are in many places of considerable extent, are of far greater fertility,
being a rich vegetable mould, many feet in depth, and have without doubt, been gradually formed
by depositions from it during the periods of its inundations. These plains gradually enlarge
themselves until you arrive at the junction of the Nepean with the Hawkesbury, on each side
of which they are commonly from a mile to a mile and a half in breadth. The banks of this latter
river are of still greater fertility than the banks of the former, and may vie in this respect
with the far-famed banks of the Nile. The same acre of land there has been known to produce
in the course of one year, fifty bushels of wheat and a hundred of maize. The settlers have
never any occasion for manure, since the slimy depositions from the river, effectually counteract
the exhaustion that would otherwise be produced by incessant crops. The timber on the banks
of these rivers is for the most part apple tree, which is very beautiful, and bears in its
foliage and shape a striking resemblance to the oak of this country. Its wood, however, is
of no value except for firing, and for the immense quantity of pot-ash which might be made
from it. The blue gum and stringy bark are also very common on these flooded lands, and of
the best description. The banks of the Hawkesbury formerly produced cedar, but it has long
since entirely disappeared.

The banks of these rivers, and indeed the whole tract of country, (generally speaking) which
I have described, with the exception of the barren waste in the vicinity of the coast, are,
to use the colonial term, located, i. e. either granted away to individuals, or attached as
commons to the cultivated districts. It may not, therefore, be unacceptable to many of my readers,
to learn the particulars of those unappropriated tracts of land within the immediate precincts
of Port Jackson, which are best adapted to the purposes of colonization.

COW PASTURES.

