    She left her own warm home.
      When stone, and herb, and tree,
    And all beneath heaven's lurid dome
      By wintry majesty,
    In his stern age, were clad with snow,
    And human hearts beat chill and slow.

    It was a fearful hour
      For one so young and fair:
    The woods had not one sheltering bower,
      The earth was trackless there,
    The very boughs in silver slept,
    As the sea-foam had o'er them swept.

    Snow after snow came down,
      The sky look'd fix'd in ice;
    She deem'd amid the season's power,
      Her love would all suffice
    To keep the source of being warm,
    And mock the terrors of the storm.

    Love was her world of life.
      She thought but of her heart,
    And knowing that the winter's strife
      Could not its hope dispart,
    She dream'd not that its home of clay
    Might yield before the tempest's sway--

    Or judged that passion's power--
      Passion so strong and pure.
    Might mock the snow-flake's wildering shower,
      Proud that it could endure,
    As woman oft in times before
    Had peril borne as much or more.

    She went--dawn past o'er dawn,
      None saw her face again,
    The eyes she should have gazed upon,
      Look'd for her face in vain--
    The ear to which her voice was song,
    Her voice had sought--how vainly long!

    There is in Saco's vale
      A gently swelling hill,
    Shadows have wrapt it like a veil
      From trees that mark it still,
    Around, the mountains towering blue
    Look on that spot of saddest hue.

    'Twas by that little hill,
      At the dark noon of night,
    Close by a frozen snow-hid rill,
      Where branches close unite
    Even in winter's leafless time,
    The skeletons of summer's prime.

    That flash'd the traveller's flame
      On tree and precipice,
    And show'd a fair unearthly frame
      In robes of glittering ice,
    With head against a trunk inclined,
    Like a dream-spirit of the mind.

    'Twas that love-wander'd maid, death-pale,
      Her very heart's blood froze,
    Love's Niobe, in her own vale,
      Now reckless of all woes--
    Love's victim fair, and true, find meet,
    As she of the famed Paraclete.

    The mountains round shall tell
      Her tale to travellers long.
    The little vale of Saco swell
      The western poet's song,
    And "Nancy's Hill" in loftier rhymes
    Be sung through unborn realms and times.

New Monthly Magazine.

    [7] A few miles below the Notch of the White Mountains in the
    Valley of Saco, is a little rise of land called "Nancy's Hill."
    It was formerly thickly covered with trees, a cluster of which
    remains to mark the spot. In 1773, at Dartmouth, Jefferson co.
    U.S. lived Nancy----, of respectable connexions. She was
    engaged to be married. Her lover had set out for Lancaster. She
    would follow him in the depth of winter, and on foot. There was
    not a house for thirty miles, and the way through the wild
    woods a footpath only. She persisted in her design, and
    wrapping herself in her long cloak, proceeded on her way. Snow
    and frost took place for several weeks, when some persons
    passing her route, reached the lull at night. On lighting their
    fires, an unearthly figure stood before them beneath the
    bending branches, wrapped in a robe of ice. It was the lifeless
    form of Nancy.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GATHERER

    "I am but a Gatherer and disposer of other men's
    stuff."--Wotton.

       *       *       *       *       *

The late Dr. Barclay was a wit and a scholar, as well as a very great physiologist. When a
happy illustration, or even a point of pretty broad humour, occurred to his mind, he hesitated
not to apply it to the subject in hand; and in this way, he frequently roused and rivetted
attention, when more abstract reasoning might have failed of its aim. On one occasion he happened
to dine with a large party, composed chiefly of medical men. As the wine cup circulated, the
conversation accidentally took a professional turn, and from the excitation of the moment,
or some other cause, two of the youngest individuals present were the most forward in delivering
their opinions. Sir James McIntosh once told a political opponent, that so far from following
his example of using hard words and soft arguments, he would pass, if possible, into the opposite
extreme, and use soft words and hard arguments. But our unfledged M.D.'s disregarded the above
salutary maxim, and made up in loudness what they wanted in learning. At length, one of them
said something so emphatic--we mean as to manner--that a pointer dog started from his lair
beneath the table and bow-wow-wowed so fiercely, that he fairly took the lead in the discussion.
Dr. Barclay eyed the hairy dialectician, and thinking it high time to close the debate, gave
the animal a hearty push with his foot, and exclaimed in broad Scotch--"Lie still, ye brute;
for I am sure ye ken just as little about it as ony o'them." We need hardly add, that this
sally was followed by a hearty burst of laughter, in which even the disputants good-humouredly
joined.

       *       *       *       *       *

      Fair woman was made to bewitch--
    A pleasure, a pain, a disturber, a nurse,
    A slave, or a tyrant, a blessing, or curse;
      Fair woman was made to be--which?