THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION.

       *       *       *       *       *

[NO. 321.] SATURDAY, JULY 5, 1828. [PRICE 2d.]

       *       *       *       *       *

EATON HALL, CHESHIRE,

The Seat of the Rt. Hon. Earl Grosvenor.

This mansion is a princely specimen of Gothic architecture; and is in every respect calculated
for the residence of its noble possessor, whose taste and munificence in patronizing the Fine
Arts are well known to our readers. Nevertheless, it is worthy of special remark, that not
only is the name of GROSVENOR conspicuous in this patronage, but his lordship has further evinced
his love of art in the construction of one of the most splendid buildings in the whole empire,--the
present mansion having been completed within a few years.[1] Here the noble founder seems to
have realized all that the ingenious Sir Henry Wotton considered requisite for a man's "house
and home--the theatre of his hospitality, the seat of self-fruition, a kind of PRIVATE PRINCEDOM;
nay, to the possessors thereof, an epitome of the whole world."

    [1] At this moment, Earl Grosvenor has in progress a splendid
        gallery for the reception of his superb collection of pictures,
        adjoining his town mansion, in Grosvenor-street. This is one of
        the few "Private Collections" to which, through the good taste
        and courtesy of the proprietor, the public are admitted, on
        specified days, and under certain restrictions. The nucleus of
        Earl Grosvenor's collection, was the purchase of Mr. Agar's
        pictures for L30,000; since which it has been enlarged, till it
        has at length become one of the finest in England. In the
        drawing-room at Eaton are, Our Saviour on the Mount of Olives,
        by Claude Lorraine, which is the largest painting known to have
        been executed by him; and A Port in the Mediterranean, by
        Vernet. In the dining-room, Rubens with his Second Wife; by
        himself; and The Judgment of Paris, a copy, by Peters, after
        Rubens. In the dressing-room of the state bed-room, David and
        Abigail, also by Rubens. Over the ornamented chimney-pieces of
        the hall are, West's Dissolution of the Long Parliament, and
        The Landing of Charles the Second.

Eaton is situated about three miles to the south of Chester, on the verge of an extensive park,
thickly studded with fine old timber. The present "Hall" occupies the site of the old mansion,
which is described as a square and spacious brick building erected by Sir Thomas Grosvenor,
in the reign of William III. The architect was Sir John Vanbrugh, who likewise laid out the
gardens with straight walks and leaden statues, in the formal style of his age. In the reconstruction,
the fine vaulted basement story of the old Hall was preserved, as were also the external foundations,
and some subdivisions; but the superstructure was altered and entirely refitted, and additional
apartments erected on the north and south sides, so as to make the area of the new house twice
the dimensions of the old one.

The style of architecture adopted in the new Hall is that of the age of Edward III, as exhibited
in that Parthenon of Gothic architecture, York Minster; although the architect, Mr. Porden,
has occasionally availed himself of the low Tudor arch, and the forms of any other age that
suited his purpose, so as to adapt the rich variety of our ancient ecclesiastical architecture
to modern domestic convenience. Round the turrets, and in various parts of the parapets are
shields, charged in relievo with the armorial bearings of the Grosvenor family, and of other
ancient families that, by intermarriages, the Grosvenors are entitled to quarter with their
own. The windows, which are "richly dight" with tracery, are of cast-iron, moulded on both
sides, and grooved to receive the glass. The walls, battlements, and pinnacles, are of stone,
of a light and beautiful colour, from the Manly quarry about ten miles distant.

The annexed engraving represents the west-front of the house, in the centre of which is the
entrance, by a vaulted porch, which admits a carriage to the steps that lead to the Hall, a
spacious and lofty room, occupying the height of two stories, with a groined ceiling, embellished
with the Grosvenor arms, and other devices, in the bosses that cover the junction of the ribs.
The pavement is of variegated marble in compartments. At the end of the Hall, a screen of five
arches support a gallery which connects the bed-chambers on the north side of the house with
those on the south, which are separated by the elevation of the Hall. Under this gallery, two
open arches to the right and left conduct to the grand staircase, the state bed-room, and the
second staircase; and opposite to the door of the hall is the entrance to the saloon. The grand
staircase is elaborately ornamented with niches and canopies, and with tracery under the landings;
and in the principal ceiling, which is surmounted with a double skylight of various coloured
glass. The state bed-room is lighted by two painted windows, with tracery and armorial bearings.
In the saloon are three lofty and splendidly painted windows, which contain, in six divisions,--the
portraits of the conqueror's nephew, Gilbert le Grosvenor, the founder of the Grosvenor family,
and his lady; of William the Conqueror, with whom Gilbert came into England; the Bishop of
Bayeux, uncle to the conqueror; the heiress of the house of Eaton; and Sir Robert le Grosvenor,
who signalized himself in the wars of Edward III.

The saloon is a square of thirty feet, formed into an octagon by arches across the angles,
which give to the vaultings a beautiful form. Opposite to the chimney piece is an organ richly
decorated. On the left of the saloon is an ante-room leading to the dining-room; and on the
right, another leading to the drawing-room: the windows of these rooms are glazed with a light
Mosaic tracery, and exhibit the portraits of the six Earls of Chester, who, after Hugh Lupus,
governed Cheshire as a County Palatine, till Henry III bestowed the title on his son Edward;
since which time the eldest sons of the kings of England have always been Earls of Chester.

The dining-room, situated at the northern extremity of the east front, is about 50 feet long
and 30 feet wide, exclusive of a bay-window of five arches, the opening of which is 30 feet.
In the centre window is the portrait of Hugh Lupus; which, with the portraits of the six Earls
of Chester, in the ante-room windows, were executed from cartoons, at Longport, Staffordshire.
The ceiling is of bold and rich tracery, with a profuse emblazoning of heraldic honours, and
a large ornamented pendant for a chandelier.

The drawing room, which is at the southern extremity of the east front, is of the same form
and dimensions as the dining-room, with the addition of a large window to the south, commanding
the luxuriant groves of meadows of Eaton, and the village and spire of Oldford above them.
All the windows of this room are adorned with heads and figures of the ancestors of the family;
also the portraits of the present Earl and Countess, in a beautiful brown chiaro-scuro. The
ceiling is tracery of the nicest materials and workmanship emblazoned with the arms of the
Grosvenor family, and those of Egerton, Earl of Wilton, the father of the present Countess
Grosvenor.

Eaton became the property of the Grosvenor family through the marriage of Ralph Grosvenor,
in the reign of Henry VI with Joan, daughter of John Eaton, then owner of this estate. The
Grosvenor family, as we have already intimated, came into England with William the Conqueror;
they derived their name from the office of chief huntsmen, which they held in the Norman court;
and, when "chivalry was the fashion of the times," says Pennant, "few families shone in so
distinguished a manner: none shewed equal spirit in vindicating their rights to their looms."
He then mentions the celebrated legal contest with Sir Richard le Scroope, for the family arms--Azure,
a bend or. This cause was tried before the High Constable and the Earl Marshal of England,
in the reign of Richard II. It lasted three years; kings, princes of the blood, and most of
the nobility, and among the gentry, Chaucer, the poet, gave evidence on the trial. "The sentence,"
says Pennant, "was conciliating; that both parties should bear the same arms; but the Grosvenours
avec une bordure d'argent. Sir Robert resents it, and appeals to the king. The judgment is
confirmed; but the choice is left to the defendant, either to use the bordure, or bear the
arms of their relations, the ancient Earls of Chester, azure, a gerb d'or. He rejected the
mortifying distinction, and chose a gerb: which is the family coat to this day."

Hitherto we have only spoken of the artificial splendour of Eaton. The natural beauties with
which it is environed will, however, present equal, if not superior, attraction for the tourist.
The stiff, formal walks of Vanbrugh no longer disfigure the grounds, which are now made to
harmonize with the contiguous landscape, and are enlivened by an inlet of the Dee, which intervenes
between the eastern front of the mansion, and the opposite plantations. These alterations have,
however, been made with great judgment, and a few of the venerable beauties of the park remain.
Thus, a fine aged avenue extends westward to a Gothic lodge in the hamlet of Belgrave, about
two miles distant from the Hall. Another lodge, in a similar style of design, is approached
by a road, which diverges from this avenue towards Chester, and crosses the park, through luxuriating
plantations, which open occasionally in glade views of the Broxton and Welsh Hills. The most
pleasing approach to this noble mansion is one which has been cut through the plantations,
towards the north-east angle of the house, so as to throw the whole building into perspective.

Viewed from either of the beautiful sites with which the park abounds, Eaton is a magnificent
display of towers, and turrets, pinnacles and battlements, partly embosomed in foliage, and
belted with one of the richest domains in England. Indeed, its splendour seldom fails to strike
the overweening admirer of art with devotional fondness, which is not lessened by his approach
to the fabric.[1] The most favourable distant views are from the Aldford road, and from the
romantic banks of the Dee, whence there is a proud display of architectural grandeur. In every
point, however, the grounds and mansion of Eaton will abundantly gratify the expectations of
the visiter. Altogether, they present a rich scene of nature, diversified and embellished by
the attributes of art; and the admiration of the latter will be not a little enhanced by the
reflection that the building of this sumptuous pile provided employment for a large portion
of the poor of Chester during one of the most calamitous periods of the late war.

    [1] One view from the interior deserves special mention: viz. from
        the saloon, upon a terrace 350 feet in length, commanding one
        of the richest landscapes on the banks of Dee. The boasted
        terrace at Versailles is but 400 feet in length; yet, how many
        Englishmen, who have seen the latter, are even ignorant of
        that at Eaton.

The noble founder of Eaton has indeed learned to "build stately," and "garden finely;" and
has thus made the personal fruition of his wealth subservient to its real use--the distribution.

       *       *       *       *       *

ORIGIN OF CHESS.

(To the Editor of the Mirror.)

SIR,--In vol. 3, page 211, of the MIRROR, is an account of the origin of the scientific game
of chess, the invention of which, your correspondent F. H. Y. has attributed to a brahmin,
named Sissa. But I believe it is entirely a matter of doubt, both as to where, and by whom
it was invented; it is evidently of very high antiquity, and if we recur to the original names
of the pieces with which it is played, we shall readily be convinced it is of Asiatic original.
The honour of inventing it, is contended for by several nations, but principally by the Hindoos,
the Chinese, and the Persians. And yet, the same learned author observes, that no account of
the game has hitherto been discovered in the classical writings of the brahmins. Mr. Daines
Barrington supposed the Chinese to be the inventers, and in this he is supported by a paper
published in the Transactions of the Royal Irish Academy, for 1794, vol. 5, by Mr. Eyles Irwin.
It states, that when Mr. Irwin was at Canton, a young mandarin, on seeing the English chess-board,
recognised its similarity with that used for a game of their own; and brought his board and
equipage for Mr. Irwin's inspection, and soon after gave him a manuscript extract from a book,
relating the invention of the Chinese game, called by them chong-he, or the royal game, which
it attributed to a Chinese general (about 1,965 years ago) who by its means reconciled his
soldiers to passing the winter in quarters in the country of Shensi, the cold and inconvenience
of which were likely to have occasioned a mutiny among them. Other writers contend that chess
is a game of Persian invention, since scah muth is the Persic term for check-mate; and since
the Persians were sedulous in recommending it to their young princes, as a game calculated
to instruct kings in the art of war. It has been attributed to Palamedes, who lived during
the Trojan war; but it was a game played with pebbles, or cubes, of which he was the inventer.
Palamedes was so renowned for his sagacity, that almost every early discovery was ascribed
to him. Whether the Greeks or Romans were acquainted with this game is doubtful. Of the three
contending nations, the claim of the Persians appears to me to be least eligible, and that
of the Chinese the most.

Near Sheffield.

J. M. C-D.

       *       *       *       *       *

THREE SONNETS TO JOHN KEATS.

(For the Mirror.)

  I can think of thee! now that the light spring
    Showers live in the rich breezes, and the dyes
    Of the glad flowers are won from her blue eyes
  Exulting; whilst loud songs, on the fleet wing
  Of the Earth's seraphs, bear her welcoming
    From it to heaven, and, up to the far skies,
    From turf-born censers floods of incense rise.
  I can think of thee in my wandering;
    And when the heart leaps up within to bless
    The sights of love and beauty, on each hand,--
    The pouring-out of sky-sprung happiness
      Over the dancing sea and the green land,
    Thought wakes one saddening thrill of bitterness--
      Thou canst not o'er this Eden smiling stand!

  Yes! even as the quick glow of Spring's first smile
    Is unto the renewed spirit,--even
    As that abundant gush of wine from Heaven
  Loosens the dreary grasp of Cares which coil
  Round the lone heart like serpents,--the sweet toil
    Of draining the dear dream-cup thou hast given
    Is unto me,--and thoughts which long have striven
    With joyousness, flit far away the while
    My lips are prest to it. By the fire-light,
      Or in full gaze of sun-set, when the choirs
    Of winged minstrels, waking out of light,
      Ring requiem meet to those departing fires--
    Let me be with thee then--forgetting quite
    The world, its scornfulness, and its desires.

  O! I could weep for thee! and yet not tears
    Of hopelessness, but triumph, and sit down
    And weave for thee wet wild-flowers for a crown--
  Then up, and sound rich music in thine ears;
  And teach thee, that sweet lips, in coming years,
    Shall lisp the songs which cold dull hearts disown,--
    That all which hope could pant for is thine own,--
    Dimmed, for a moment's space, with human fears.
    Then watch the new-born glories in thine eye,
    Glancing like lightning from its chariot cloud,
    And list these words, which know not how to die,--
      Joy's inspiration gushing forth aloud:
    Then back again unto the world and sigh,
      And wrap my heart up in a dusky shroud.

THOMAS M---- S.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHOOSING OF BAILIFFS AT BRIDGNORTH.

(For the Mirror.)

The bailiffs of Bridgnorth are chosen out of the twenty-four aldermen upon St. Matthew's Day
in the following manner:--The court having met, the names of twelve aldermen being separately
written on small pieces of paper, are closely rolled up by the town clerk, and thrown into
a purse, which is shaken by the two chamberlains standing upon the chequer, (a large table
in the middle of the court,) and held open to the bailiffs, when each, according to seniority,
takes out a roll. By this means the callers are decided, who, mounting the chequer, alternately
call the jury of fourteen out of the burgesses present. They are then sworn neither to eat
nor drink till they, or twelve of them, have chosen two fit persons, who have not been bailiffs
for three years before, to serve that office for the ensuing year; they are locked up till
they have agreed, which sometimes occasions long fastings. In 1739, the jury fasted seventy
hours. The persons chosen are sworn into office on Michaelmas Day.--W. H.

       *       *       *       *       *

ON COALS, AND THE PERIOD WHEN THE COAL MINES IN ENGLAND WILL BE EXHAUSTED.

(From Bakewell's Introduction to Geology, 3rd Edition, 1828.)

Coal was known, and partially used, at a very early period of our history. I was informed by
the late Marquis of Hastings, that stone hammers and stone tools were found in some of the
old workings in his mines at Ashby Wolds; and his lordship informed me also, that similar stone
tools had been discovered in the old workings in the coal-mines in the north of Ireland. Hence
we may infer, that these coal-mines were worked at a very remote period, when the use of metallic
tools was not general. The burning of coal was prohibited in London in the year 1308, by the
royal proclamation of Edward I. In the reign of Queen Elizabeth, the burning of coal was again
prohibited in London during the sitting of parliament, lest the health of the knights of the
shire should suffer injury during their abode in the metropolis. In the year 1643, the use
of coal had become so general, and the price being then very high, many of the poor are said
to have perished for want of fuel. At the present day, when the consumption of coal, in our
iron-furnaces and manufactories and for domestic use, is immense, we cannot but regard the
exhaustion of our coal-beds as involving the destruction of a great portion of our private
comfort and national prosperity. Nor is the period very remote when the coal districts, which
at present supply the metropolis with fuel, will cease to yield any more. The annual quantity
of coal shipped in the rivers Tyne and Wear, according to Mr. Bailey, exceeded three million
tons. A cubic yard of coals weighs nearly one ton; and the number of tons contained in a bed
of coal one square mile in extent, and one yard in thickness, is about four millions. The number
and extent of all the principal coal-beds in Northumberland and Durham is known; and from these
data it has been calculated that the coal in these counties will last 360 years. Mr. Bailey,
in his Survey of Durham, states, that one-third of the coal being already got, the coal districts
will be exhausted in 200 years. It is probable that many beds of inferior coal, which are now
neglected, may in future be worked; but the consumption of coal being greatly increased since
Mr. Bailey published his Survey of Durham, we may admit his calculation to be an approximation
to the truth, and that the coal of Northumberland and Durham will be exhausted in a period
not greatly exceeding 200 years. Dr. Thomson, in the Annals of Philosophy, has calculated that
the coal of these districts, at the present rate of consumption, will last 1,000 years! but
his calculations are founded on data manifestly erroneous, and at variance with his own statements;
for he assumes the annual consumption of coal to be only two million eight hundred thousand
tons, and the waste to be one-third more,--making three million seven hundred thousand tons,
equal to as many square yards; whereas he has just before informed us, that two million chaldrons
of coal, of two tons and a quarter each chaldron, are exported, making four million five hundred
thousand tons, beside inland consumption, and waste in the working[1]. According to Mr. Winch,
three million five hundred thousand tons of coal are consumed annually from these districts;
to which if we add the waste of small coal at the pit's mouth, and the waste in the mines,
it will make the total yearly destruction of coal nearly double the quantity assigned by Dr.
Thomson. Dr. Thomson has also greatly overrated the quantity of the coal in these districts,
as he has calculated the extent of the principal beds from that of the lowest, which is erroneous;
for many of the principal beds crop out, before they reach the western termination of the coal-fields.
With due allowance for these errors, and for the quantity of coal already worked out, (which,
according to Mr. Bailey, is about one-third,) the 1,000 years of Dr. Thomson will not greatly
exceed the period assigned by Mr. Bailey for the complete exhaustion of coal in these counties,
and may be stated at three hundred and fifty years.

    [1] The waste of coal at the pit's mouth may be stated at one-sixth
        of the quantity sold, and that left in the mines at one-third.
        Mr. Holmes, in his Treatise on Coal Mines, states the waste of
        small coal at the pit's mouth to be one-fourth of the whole.

It cannot be deemed uninteresting to inquire what are the repositories of coal that can supply
the metropolis and the southern counties, when no more can be obtained from the Tyne and the
Wear. The only coal-fields of any extent on the eastern side of England, between London and
Durham, are those of Derbyshire and those in the west riding of Yorkshire. The Derbyshire coal-field
is not of sufficient magnitude to supply, for any long period, more than is required for home
consumption, and that of the adjacent counties. There are many valuable beds of coal in the
western part of the west riding of Yorkshire which are yet unwrought; but the time is not very
distant when they must be put in requisition, to supply the vast demand of that populous manufacturing
county, which at present consumes nearly all the produce of its own coal mines. In the midland
counties, Staffordshire possesses the nearest coal districts to the metropolis, of any great
extent; but such is the immense daily consumption of coal in the iron-furnaces and founderies,
that it is generally believed this will be the first of our own coal-fields that will be exhausted.
The thirty-feet bed of coal in the Dudley coal-field is of limited extent; and in the present
mode of working it, more than two-thirds of the coal is wasted and left in the mine.

If we look to Whitehaven or Lancashire, or to any of the minor coal-fields in the west of England,
we can derive little hope of their being able to supply London and the southern counties with
coal, after the import of coal fails from Northumberland and Durham. We may thus anticipate
a period not very remote, when all the English mines of coal and ironstone will be exhausted;
and were we disposed to indulge in gloomy forebodings, like the ingenious authoress of the
"Last Man," we might draw a melancholy picture of our starving and declining population, and
describe some manufacturing patriarch, like the late venerable Richard Reynolds, travelling
to see the last expiring English furnace, before he emigrated to distant regions.[1]

    [1] The late Richard Reynolds, Esq., of Bristol, so distinguished
        for his unbounded benevolence, was the original proprietor of
        the great iron-works in Colebrook Dale, Shropshire. Owing, I
        believe, partly to the exhaustion of the best workable beds of
        coal and ironstone, and partly to the superior advantages
        possessed by the iron-founders in South Wales, the works at
        Colebrook Dale were finally relinquished, a short time before
        the death of Mr. Reynolds. With a natural attachment to the
        scenes where he had passed his early years, and to the pursuits
        by which he had honourably acquired his great wealth, he
        travelled from Bristol into Shropshire, to be present when the
        last of his furnaces was extinguished, in a valley where they
        had been continually burning for more than half a century.

Fortunately, however, we have in South Wales, adjoining the Bristol Channel, an almost exhaustless
supply of coal and ironstone, which are yet nearly unwrought. It has been stated, that this
coal-field extends over about twelve hundred square miles, and that there are twenty-three
beds of workable coal, the total average thickness of which is ninety-five feet, and the quantity
contained in each acre is 100,000 tons, or 65,000,000 tons per square mile. If from this we
deduct one half for waste and for the minor extent of the upper beds, we shall have a clear
supply of coal, equal to 32,000,000 tons per square mile. Now if we admit that the five million
tons of coal from the Northumberland and Durham mines is equal to nearly one-third of the total
consumption of coals in England, each square mile of the Welsh coal-field would yield coal
for two years' consumption; and as there are from one thousand to twelve hundred square miles
in this coal-field, it would supply England with fuel for two thousand years, after all our
English coal-mines are worked out.

It is true, that a considerable part of the coal in South Wales is of an inferior quality,
and is not at present burned for domestic use; but in proportion as coal becomes scarce, improved
methods of burning it will assuredly be discovered, to prevent any sulphureous fumes from entering
apartments, and also to economize the consumption of fuel in all our manufacturing processes.

       *       *       *       *       *

SONG.

(For the Mirror.)

  Thou hast not seen the tear-drops fill
    The eyes which worship thee;
  The deepest curse, the darkest ill,
  Hovers above--around me--still
    There are no tears for me!

  Thou canst not know, why I should kneel
    For tears to heaven--in vain;
  The thousand changeless pangs we feel,--
  The precious drops, perchance, might heal,--
    They will not start again!

  Thou canst not know what hopes will spring
    When I can gaze on thee,
  Even in the cold heart withering;
  Oh! thou to whom that heart must cling,
    Art more than tears to me!

THOMAS M---- S.

       *       *       *       *       *

HINTS FOR HEALTH.

    ["A very old and active correspondent," Tim Tobykin, has furnished
    us with the following interesting extracts from Dr. Rennie's
    Treatise on Gout and Nervous Diseases, just published. These,
    however, are but a portion of our correspondent's selections; and as
    they are written in a popular style and appear to be equally
    applicable to the welfare of all classes, they will doubtless be
    acceptable to our readers. We are not friendly to the introduction
    of purely professional matters into the pages of the MIRROR, but the
    following extracts are so far divested of technicality as to render
    their utility and importance obvious to every reader.]

CLIMATE, LOCALITY, AND SEASONS.

I shall first inquire, says Dr. Rennie, what are the effects of climate on healthy constitutions,
as respects heat, cold, moisture, and vicissitudes; including also the diurnal and annual revolutions.

Cold applied to the body acts as a direct sedative. It diminishes the nervous sensibility,
represses the activity of the circulation, detracts from the sum of the animal heat, and thereby
diminishes stimulation. In the cessation of excitement and sensibility that ensues, the whole
vital actions are moderated, existing irritation is soothed; and in the same manner as sleep
recruits the wasted powers, so does cold restore and invigorate the nerves when overstimulated,
and in fact promotes the tone and vigour of the whole body; when again a warmer atmosphere
succeeds a colder, the animal heat increases in its sum, the surface of the body is re-excited,
nervous sensibility returns, and a reaction of the circulation takes place; so that the blood
diffuses itself in greater abundance towards the remote and superficial parts of the body,
and the secretions are also promoted.

Alternations of cold and heat therefore in healthy constitutions within certain limits, are
salutary; promoting, on the one hand, the vigour and tone of the body; on the other, the due
activity and excitement of the various functions.

The temperature occasioned by day and night, and also those more progressive and slow alternations
of heat and cold, on the large scale, attending the annual revolution of the seasons, are a
natural provision admirably adapted to effect these objects as described; constituted as our
bodies are, such a constant and regular succession of heat and cold is just such as the necessities
of the human frame require. The alternations of day and night, of winter and summer, are far
from being merely incidental and unimportant circumstances in the general adaptation of the
earth to man's constitutional wants; neither do they bear reference solely to the productions
of the earth for his use. They exert a continual and direct influence on his constitution,
calculated to aid the vigorous and healthy performance of the various functions of the body
each in its due degree and order, and they conduce mainly to the perfection and longevity of
the species.

Let us therefore trace the effects of these changes on the human body.

During the winter, the prevailing cold acts as a universal sedative and tonic, soothing the
nervous excitement and sensibility, allaying the activity of the circulation, moderating the
functions of the skin, and diminishing the various secretions.

As the Spring opens, the sun gains daily in influence, generating a gradually increasing atmospheric
warmth. The body therefore becomes subject from this heat to a reactive effect, during which
the nervous sensibility and circulation are gradually re-excited, the blood is more equally
diffused towards the surface and extremities of the body, and the secretion by the skin is
increased.

If the cold of winter were to continue unmitigated from year to year, without the genial influence
of summer, the human race, as is apparent in polar regions and upland mountainous districts,
would degenerate into dwarfishness.

If the heat of summer were continually maintained the whole year round, a tendency to degeneracy
of the race would be also observed, as we see in tropical latitudes. It is in the medium betwixt
these extremes, where a moderate and regular winter cold is succeeded by a mild, genial summer
temperature, that the species approaches most to perfection in stature, health, strength, and
longevity.

In observing also the influence of day and night on the constitution, there is a sedative effect
produced in the morning before the sun is up, a reactive tendency promoted towards noon under
the solar influence, and again towards evening this reaction is repressed by the sedative effect
of the evening cold; and this sedative effect is at its maximum at midnight. Hence those who
sit up late feel unusually chilly and depressed towards midnight, partly owing to exhaustion
from want of sleep, but chiefly from the total absence of solar influence in the atmospherical
temperature. In regular habits this sedative effect is never thoroughly experienced; for before
midnight, the constitution, enveloped in warm blankets, has experienced the reaction arising
from the accumulation of heat in bed. Whence the common remark, that one hour's sleep before
midnight is worth three after that hour, is actually true to a certain extent. By early retirement
to rest, the sedative effect on the constitution, to an extent such as to disturb the functions,
is escaped.

If we connect these two influences, the annual and diurnal successions of cold and heat, in
their joint effect, we find, that about, or a little after the summer solstice, the influence
of the sun being at its maximum, the nervous sensibility, heat, circulating excitement, and
cutaneous secretions of the body, are also at their maximum. The temperature of the day and
night differ so little, that the sedative effects of evening and morning are not sufficient
to restore the frame by soothing the sensibilities, overexcited and irritable from the previous
warmth. Whence the languor and irritability felt in summer, when the heat is long continued,
and the nights are spent in restlessness and anxious oppression. Exhaustion and relaxation
of the frame are the consequence.

As the autumnal equinox verges on, the mornings and evenings get cooler in relation to the
mid-day heat; and about the equinox, the difference in the temperature of mid-day and midnight
is at its maximum. We have therefore a powerful sedative effect in the morning, which braces
and invigorates the body; a powerful reactive effect at mid-day, which rouses and stimulates
the actions and sensibilities of the frame; and again towards evening a sedative effect, from
the increasing cold reaching its maximum at midnight.

As the season passes on from the Equinox towards the winter solstice, the heat of the sun daily
diminishes, and the cold gains a daily preponderance. The sedative effect on the body goes
on progressively increasing, being less and less counteracted by any genial influence from
the solar heat at mid-day; whence the gloom and depression so universally experienced by the
nervous in November and December, which is more and more felt till the shortest day. So soon
as the minimum of solar influence and maximum of sedative effect on the body has passed over,
the sun gradually acquires more of meridian influence, and a daily increasing ascendancy over
the prevalent cold. The human constitution at the same time is subject to a proportionate reactive
disposition; which reaction is felt most at noon, and it daily becomes more and more apparent
till the vernal equinox, when we have the difference betwixt the meridian and midnight temperature
again at a maximum. We have daily a powerful sedative effect in the morning, a powerful meridian
reaction, which again subsides into a sedative condition on the access of the evening. This
daily effect on the constitution is exactly similar to that at the autumnal equinox, only it
occurs under different circumstances. In autumn it is connected with departing heat and progressively
increasing cold; in Spring it is connected with progressively diminishing cold and advancing
heat. After the vernal equinox, the difference in the meridian and midnight temperature gradually
diminishes; the daily sedative effect at morning and evening becomes less and less apparent
as general atmospheric warmth prevails, till towards the summer solstice, the general effect
on the constitution is stimulation and excitement by atmospheric heat.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES OF A READER.

BYRON'S "FARE THEE WELL."

On one occasion of a mediator waiting upon Lord Byron upon the subject of a reconciliation
with his wife, he produced from his desk a paper on which was written "fare thee well," and
said, "Now these are exactly my feelings on the subject--they were not intended to be published,
but you may take them."--Lit. G.

EARLY HOURS.

Dr. Franklin published an ingenious Essay on the advantages of early rising.--He called it
"an economical project," and calculated the saving that might be made in the city of Paris,
by using the sunshine instead of the candles--at no less than 4,000,000l. sterling.

SENSITIVE PLANTS.

Light exercises a very remarkable influence upon the irritability of the sensitive plant. Thus,
if a sensitive plant be placed in complete darkness, by carrying it within an opaque vessel,
it will entirely lose its irritability, and that in a variable time, according to a certain
state of depression or elevation of the surrounding temperature.

At Brussels, the demand for labour is so great, in consequence of the number of new buildings,
that tradesmen consider they confer a favour on a customer by the execution of his orders.
The lower classes have become, within the last seven years, extremely dissipated, owing it
is supposed to the increase in the wages of the mechanics and labourers employed in the numerous
buildings erected within that period. During the Kaermess annual feast of three days, it is
calculated 80,000 litres (pots) are drunk each day!

Cooper, the American novelist, has just published two volumes of "Notions" of his countrymen,
in the course of which he bestows on them the following surperlative epithets: "most active,
quick-witted, enterprising, orderly, moral, simple, vigorous, healthful, manly, generous, just,
wise, innocent, civilized, liberal, polite, enlightened, ingenious, moderate, glorious, firm,
free, virtuous, intelligent, sagacious, kind, honest, independent, brave, gallant, intellectual,
well-governed, elevated, dignified, pure, immaculate, extraordinary, wonderful," &c. He then
calls them the "most improving," which is painting, nay coating, the lily, to "wasteful and
ridiculous excess."

OSTRICHES

