  In the matter of meals, since the rations one feels
    Hedonistic ideals have so soundly been shaken
  That even the swankiest Duke might say, "Thankee!"
    For Hodge's red hanky of bread and cold bacon;
  But if in the sequel all chances are equal
    You'll have to see me quell a volume of curses
  When our "jobs" they allot, and I still have to swot,
    If I like it or not, writing topical verses.

       *       *       *       *       *

A HARDY ANNUAL.

The butler, John Binns, who is an old and faithful retainer to this household, is now suffering
from his annual cough. It is a terrific cough, capable of disputing supremacy with all other
coughs of which the world has heard. The special points about this cough are (1) its loudness;
(2) its combination of the noises made by all other coughs; (3) its depth; (4) its shriek of
despair as it trembles and reverberates through the house; (5) its capacity to repel and annihilate
sympathy. It is true that I have interviewed Binns with regard to his cough--it is an annual
interview and is expected of me. I have urged him as he values our friendship not to neglect
his cough, and he has assured me in return that the doctor has prepared for him a draught which
possesses the supreme quality of being absolutely unable to effect the purpose for which it
was devised.

"I shall drink 'is stuff," says Binns, "but I 'aven't any 'opes of its doing me any good. It
doesn't seem to get me be'ind the eough. If once I could really get be'ind it I should soon
finish it. But yon can't expect to do anything with a cough unless you're be'ind it."

"Have you tried chloraline?" I venture to suggest, mentioning not by that name, but by another,
a much-advertised specific.

"I've been living on chloraline--that is when I wasn't taking camphor lozenges. But my symptoms
are too strong for that kind o' stuff. Besides, I find that it's no use to fill yerself up
with remedies, because they only weigh down the cough unnaturally, and then when it does bust
out it's fit to tear yer throat in pieces. But none of them get be'ind it--no, not once."

It will be observed that Binns has almost a superstition in regard to "getting be'ind." If
he got rid of his cough with everything still in front, he would take no satisfaction whatever
in his malady; but as it is he feels a legitimate pride in it. He has been a member of this
household for forty years, and punctually on the Kalends of March in every year his cough turns
up. It never reduces his efficiency, but, while it alienates affection, it makes him more valuable
to himself as being one who has symptoms capable of being related at full length to Mrs. Hankinson,
the cook, or to any of the maids who have not yet experienced it and must be made aware that
they belong to an establishment which has the high merit of accommodating John Binns's annual
cough.

It is something to have a butler who has coughed his irresistible way through two-and-a-half
generations. It is a perfectly harmless affliction, but it gets on nerves in the same way as
it did when first it huicked and honked and strangled and choked in the seventies of last century.
I can see no decrease in its vigour or its variety. It deserves the chance of immortality that
I hereby offer it, thus giving it a place beside the cough that Johnson coughed at Dr. Blimber's
famous establishment. He struggled gallantly, but had in the end to give way to an overwhelming
paroxysm of coughing. It was a good cough, but an isolated one, and was perhaps, after all,
not equal to Binns's.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GOOD OLD TIMES.

Captain Reginald Jones and Captain James Smith, demobilised, meet accidentally in the waiting-room
of a Government office. Their acquaintanceship had originated in a shell-hole near Plum-Tree
Farm in 1916.

Reggie. Cheerio, old egg.

Jimmy. Same to you. Doing anything?

Reggie. Lord, yes! I've been pushed on to the directorate of the pater's firm.

Jimmy. Congrats!

Reggie. Stow it, old man; I'm simply worried to death. The whole cabush is on strike.

Jimmy. The blighters! What bunch are they?

Reggie. Stone-breakers.

Jimmy. Not the stone-breakers, surely?

Reggie. Yes, the stone-breakers, perish them!

Jimmy. And are you here about it?

Reggie. Sure. The junior director gets all the dirty work to do.

Jimmy. What a coincidence! I'm on the same stunt, old thing.

Reggie. Board of Trade?

Jimmy. Rats! Organising secretary of the Stone-breakers' Union.

Reggie (after, gasp of surprise). Lucky devil.

Jimmy. Rot! I'd chuck it if I could afford to. Don't you wish sometimes you were back at Plum-Tree
Farm?

Reggie. Crumbs, Jimmy; but weren't those the glorious days?

       *       *       *       *       *

    "EX-CROWN PRINCE'S HORSE TO RUN."--Heading in "The Times."

Like master like horse.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

(By Mr. Punch's Staff of Learned Clerks.)

I SHALL begin by saying straight out that Miss CICELY HAMILTON'S new book, William--an Englishman
(SKEFFINGTON), is one of the finest war-stories that anyone has yet given us. You know already
what qualities the author brings to her writing; you may believe me that she has done nothing
more real, more nobly conceived, and by consequence more moving than this short tale. It opens,
in a style of half-humorous irony, with an account of the youth, early life and courtship of
William, who, with the girl whom he married, belonged to the vehement circles of the Labour-Suffragist
group, spending a cheerfully ignorant life in a round of meetings, in hunger-striking and whole-hearted
support of the pacifism that "seeks peace and ensues it by insisting firmly, and even to blood,
that it is the other side's duty to give way." One small concession you must make to Miss HAMILTON'S
plot. It is improbable that, when such a couple as William and Griselda left England in July
1914 to take their honeymoon in a remote valley of the Belgian Ardennes, their friends, knowing
them to be without news and ignorant of all speech save English, should have made no effort
to warn them. But, this granted, the tragedy that follows becomes inevitable. It is so finely
told and so horrible (the more so for the deliberate restraint of the telling) that I will
say nothing to weaken its effect. From one scene, however, I cannot withhold my tribute of
admiration--that in which William, alone, brokenhearted, and almost crazed with the ruin of
everything that made up his life, creeps home to find his old associates still glibly echoing
the platitudes in which he once believed. A hint here of insincerity or conscious arrangement
would have ruined all; as it is, the scene holds and haunts one with an impression of absolute
truth, For the end, marked like all by an almost grim avoidance of sentimentality, I shall
only refer you to the book itself. After reading it you will, I hope, not think me guilty of
exaggeration when I call it, slight though it is, one for which its author has deserved well
of the State.

       *       *       *       *       *

The dominant impression left upon me by Miss MERIEL BUCHANAN'S Petrograd the City of Trouble
(COLLINS) is that its author is a sportswoman of the first order. You see her pressing to the
windows to observe the shooting in the streets, going out to shop, to dine, to dance, during
the stormy months of the various phases of the various Russian Revolutions. And I hasten to
add, for fear of misunderstanding, that there is no suggestion of pose as the heroic Englishwoman.
It was not till the end of 1918 that Sir GEORGE BUCHANAN withdrew from a country in which ambassadorial
functions had obviously no reasonable scope. But he and his family, including our chronicler,
his spirited daughter, remained long after there was any plausible reason to hope for the restoration
of order and very long after considerations of personal safety might well have dictated and
justified retreat. Mr. HUGH WALPOLE in his preface points out that Miss BUCHANAN is the first
English writer to give a sense of the atmosphere of Russia during the New Terror. It is curious,
but the impression she conveys is of something far less formidable than we have imagined. That
may well be due to her high courage which minimised the ever-present dangers. Another odd impression
is that her accounts of current events, e.g. of the death of RASPUTIN, seem to be as unplausible
as those which have been patched from various reports and guesses by writers far from the actual
scene. It is perhaps the very nearness of the author to the source of the host of wild rumours
and speculations concerning this strange tragedy that conveys this sense of the impossible.
Have I thereby suggested that the book lacks interest? On the contrary, it hasn't a dull or
insincere page.

       *       *       *       *       *

Little Houses (METHUEN) is not, as you might excusably suppose, a treatise upon the problem
of the hour, but a novel. I confess that, when I read in the puff preliminary that it was "minutely
observed" and "drab" in setting, my heart sank. But Mr. WODEN'S book is not made after that
sufficiently-exploited fashion. He has a definite scheme, and (but for the fault of creating
more characters than he can conveniently manage) tells his simple tale with a mature ease remarkable
in a first novel. The plan of it is the life-story of a group of persons in a provincial factory
town in those Victorian days when trade-unions were first starting, when the caricaturists
lived upon Mr. GLADSTONE'S collars and the Irish Question was very much in the same state as
it is to-day. We watch the hero, John Allday, developing from a Sunday-school urchin to flourishing
owner of his own business and prospective alderman. Of course I admit that this synopsis does
not sound peculiarly thrilling; also that as a tale it is by now considerably more than twice
told. But I can only repeat that, for those with a taste for such stories, here is one excellent
of its kind. Whether Mr. WODEN has been drawing upon personal memories for it, writing in fact
that one novel of which every man is said to be capable, time and the publishing lists will
show. I shall certainly be interested to see. Meanwhile the fact that despite his name GEORGE--always
an object of the gravest suspicion--I accept his masculinity without question is my tribute
both to the balance of his style and to the admirable drawing of his hero.

       *       *       *       *       *

That gallant and heroic gentleman, the late Mr. CECIL CHESTERTON, proved his quality by his
service and death in the ranks of our army. In such scanty leisure as he could command be wrote,
quite casually as it were, A History of the United Slates (CHATTO AND WINDUS). He seemed to
say as Wemmick might have said, "Hullo! Here's a nation! Let's write its history," which he
at once proceeded to do with immense gusto and considerable accuracy. Americans will not universally
agree with all the views he puts forward. I myself am of opinion (probably quite wrongly) that
I could make a better argumentative case for the North in the Civil War on the question of
slavery. And in his account of the War of 1812-1814 Mr. CHESTERTON spends a great deal of indignation
over the burning by the British of some public buildings in Washington, omitting to mention
that this was done in reprisal for the burning by the Americans in the previous year of the
public buildings of Toronto. But in the main this history brilliantly justifies Mr. CHESTERTON'S
courage in undertaking it, and it is written in a style that carries the reader with it from
first to last. The book is introduced by a moving tribute from Mr. G.K. CHESTERTON to his dead
brother.

       *       *       *       *       *

We doubt whether Mr. BOOTH TARKINGTON'S many admirers on this side of the Atlantic will read
The Magnificent Ambersons (HODDER AND STOUGHTON) with any great sense of satisfaction. George
Minafer is a spoilt and egotistical cad, and as we pursue his unpleasant personality from infancy
onward our impatience with the adoring relatives who allow the impossible little bounder to
turn their lives to tragedy becomes more and more pronounced. In England his "come uppance"
would have commenced at an early age and in the time-honoured place thereunto provided. But
in the case of young American nabobs these corrective agencies are too often wanting, and though
it is hard to believe that a sophisticated uncle, a soldier grandfather and various other relatives
would have allowed a conceited and overbearing young boor to wreck his mother's life by separating
her from a former sweetheart, it cannot be said that such cases have not existed or that the
picture is altogether overdrawn. But we do not like George Minafer, and his final reconciliation
with his own sweetheart and her father--the man whom ho has prevented his mother from marrying--leaves
us cold. But if the characters are unpleasing the craftsmanship of The Magnificent Ambersons
is of Mr. BOOTH TARKINGTON'S best, and his description "of the decline and fall of a locally
supreme dynasty of plutocrats before the hosts of the Goths and Huns of spawning industrialism
is almost a contribution to American social history.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

Of the two tales in Wild Youth and Another (HUTCHINSON) I prefer the other. In "Wild Youth"
Sir GILBERT PARKER gives us the unedifying picture of a horrible old man married to a young
and pretty girl. Jealous, tyrannical and vicious, this creature--referred to as a behemoth--is
in all conscience unsavoury enough; but no one can read his story without feeling that he never
had a dog's chance; and although the tale is in many respects well-told, I feel that it would
have been vastly improved if some redeeming qualities had been vouchsafed to the villain of
the piece. "Jordan is a Hard Road" is a more engaging piece of work. Here we have a man who
has walked through most of the commandments--with especial attention to the eighth--trying
to mend his ways. And he makes rather a sound job of it until something quite unforeseen happens;
and then the old Adam (if this is quite fair to Adam) asserts himself. From a publisher's "literary
note" enclosed in this book you will learn that Sir GILBERT'S imagination is "as boundless
as the tracts of the Prairie which he loves and knows how to make his readers love." This is
perhaps rather a large order, but I will content myself by saying that for the scenes of these
stories Sir GILBERT has chosen ground that is familiar to him, and that knowledge is sometimes
even more useful than imagination.

       *       *       *       *       *

"HAMLET" AND THE FLU (an appeal to the Government): "Angels and Ministers of Health defend us!"

END.