Although we usually call reward and punishment the two hinges upon which all government turns,
yet I could never observe this maxim to be put in practice by any nation except that of Lilliput.
Whoever can there bring sufficient proof, that he has strictly observed the laws of his country
for seventy-three moons, has a claim to certain privileges, according to his quality or condition
of life, with a proportionable sum of money out of a fund appropriated for that use: he likewise
acquires the title of snilpall, or legal, which is added to his name, but does not descend
to his posterity.  And these people thought it a prodigious defect of policy among us, when
I told them that our laws were enforced only by penalties, without any mention of reward. 
It is upon this account that the image of Justice, in their courts of judicature, is formed
with six eyes, two before, as many behind, and on each side one, to signify circumspection;
with a bag of gold open in her right hand, and a sword sheathed in her left, to show she is
more disposed to reward than to punish.

In choosing persons for all employments, they have more regard to good morals than to great
abilities; for, since government is necessary to mankind, they believe, that the common size
of human understanding is fitted to some station or other; and that Providence never intended
to make the management of public affairs a mystery to be comprehended only by a few persons
of sublime genius, of which there seldom are three born in an age: but they suppose truth,
justice, temperance, and the like, to be in every man’s power; the practice of which virtues,
assisted by experience and a good intention, would qualify any man for the service of his country,
except where a course of study is required.  But they thought the want of moral virtues was
so far from being supplied by superior endowments of the mind, that employments could never
be put into such dangerous hands as those of persons so qualified; and, at least, that the
mistakes committed by ignorance, in a virtuous disposition, would never be of such fatal consequence
to the public weal, as the practices of a man, whose inclinations led him to be corrupt, and
who had great abilities to manage, to multiply, and defend his corruptions.

In like manner, the disbelief of a Divine Providence renders a man incapable of holding any
public station; for, since kings avow themselves to be the deputies of Providence, the Lilliputians
think nothing can be more absurd than for a prince to employ such men as disown the authority
under which he acts.

In relating these and the following laws, I would only be understood to mean the original institutions,
and not the most scandalous corruptions, into which these people are fallen by the degenerate
nature of man.  For, as to that infamous practice of acquiring great employments by dancing
on the ropes, or badges of favour and distinction by leaping over sticks and creeping under
them, the reader is to observe, that they were first introduced by the grandfather of the emperor
now reigning, and grew to the present height by the gradual increase of party and faction.

Ingratitude is among them a capital crime, as we read it to have been in some other countries:
for they reason thus; that whoever makes ill returns to his benefactor, must needs be a common
enemy to the rest of mankind, from whom he has received no obligation, and therefore such a
man is not fit to live.

Their notions relating to the duties of parents and children differ extremely from ours.  For,
since the conjunction of male and female is founded upon the great law of nature, in order
to propagate and continue the species, the Lilliputians will needs have it, that men and women
are joined together, like other animals, by the motives of concupiscence; and that their tenderness
towards their young proceeds from the like natural principle: for which reason they will never
allow that a child is under any obligation to his father for begetting him, or to his mother
for bringing him into the world; which, considering the miseries of human life, was neither
a benefit in itself, nor intended so by his parents, whose thoughts, in their love encounters,
were otherwise employed.  Upon these, and the like reasonings, their opinion is, that parents
are the last of all others to be trusted with the education of their own children; and therefore
they have in every town public nurseries, where all parents, except cottagers and labourers,
are obliged to send their infants of both sexes to be reared and educated, when they come to
the age of twenty moons, at which time they are supposed to have some rudiments of docility.
These schools are of several kinds, suited to different qualities, and both sexes.  They have
certain professors well skilled in preparing children for such a condition of life as befits
the rank of their parents, and their own capacities, as well as inclinations. I shall first
say something of the male nurseries, and then of the female.

The nurseries for males of noble or eminent birth, are provided with grave and learned professors,
and their several deputies.  The clothes and food of the children are plain and simple.  They
are bred up in the principles of honour, justice, courage, modesty, clemency, religion, and
love of their country; they are always employed in some business, except in the times of eating
and sleeping, which are very short, and two hours for diversions consisting of bodily exercises.
They are dressed by men till four years of age, and then are obliged to dress themselves, although
their quality be ever so great; and the women attendant, who are aged proportionably to ours
at fifty, perform only the most menial offices.  They are never suffered to converse with servants,
but go together in smaller or greater numbers to take their diversions, and always in the presence
of a professor, or one of his deputies; whereby they avoid those early bad impressions of folly
and vice, to which our children are subject.  Their parents are suffered to see them only twice
a year; the visit is to last but an hour; they are allowed to kiss the child at meeting and
parting; but a professor, who always stands by on those occasions, will not suffer them to
whisper, or use any fondling expressions, or bring any presents of toys, sweetmeats, and the like.

The pension from each family for the education and entertainment of a child, upon failure of
due payment, is levied by the emperor’s officers.

The nurseries for children of ordinary gentlemen, merchants, traders, and handicrafts, are
managed proportionably after the same manner; only those designed for trades are put out apprentices
at eleven years old, whereas those of persons of quality continue in their exercises till fifteen,
which answers to twenty-one with us: but the confinement is gradually lessened for the last
three years.

In the female nurseries, the young girls of quality are educated much like the males, only
they are dressed by orderly servants of their own sex; but always in the presence of a professor
or deputy, till they come to dress themselves, which is at five years old.  And if it be found
that these nurses ever presume to entertain the girls with frightful or foolish stories, or
the common follies practised by chambermaids among us, they are publicly whipped thrice about
the city, imprisoned for a year, and banished for life to the most desolate part of the country.
Thus the young ladies are as much ashamed of being cowards and fools as the men, and despise
all personal ornaments, beyond decency and cleanliness: neither did I perceive any difference
in their education made by their difference of sex, only that the exercises of the females
were not altogether so robust; and that some rules were given them relating to domestic life,
and a smaller compass of learning was enjoined them: for their maxim is, that among peoples
of quality, a wife should be always a reasonable and agreeable companion, because she cannot
always be young.  When the girls are twelve years old, which among them is the marriageable
age, their parents or guardians take them home, with great expressions of gratitude to the
professors, and seldom without tears of the young lady and her companions.

In the nurseries of females of the meaner sort, the children are instructed in all kinds of
works proper for their sex, and their several degrees: those intended for apprentices are dismissed
at seven years old, the rest are kept to eleven.

The meaner families who have children at these nurseries, are obliged, besides their annual
pension, which is as low as possible, to return to the steward of the nursery a small monthly
share of their gettings, to be a portion for the child; and therefore all parents are limited
in their expenses by the law.  For the Lilliputians think nothing can be more unjust, than
for people, in subservience to their own appetites, to bring children into the world, and leave
the burthen of supporting them on the public.  As to persons of quality, they give security
to appropriate a certain sum for each child, suitable to their condition; and these funds are
always managed with good husbandry and the most exact justice.

The cottagers and labourers keep their children at home, their business being only to till
and cultivate the earth, and therefore their education is of little consequence to the public:
but the old and diseased among them, are supported by hospitals; for begging is a trade unknown
in this empire.

And here it may, perhaps, divert the curious reader, to give some account of my domestics,
and my manner of living in this country, during a residence of nine months, and thirteen days.
Having a head mechanically turned, and being likewise forced by necessity, I had made for myself
a table and chair convenient enough, out of the largest trees in the royal park.  Two hundred
sempstresses were employed to make me shirts, and linen for my bed and table, all of the strongest
and coarsest kind they could get; which, however, they were forced to quilt together in several
folds, for the thickest was some degrees finer than lawn.  Their linen is usually three inches
wide, and three feet make a piece.  The sempstresses took my measure as I lay on the ground,
one standing at my neck, and another at my mid-leg, with a strong cord extended, that each
held by the end, while a third measured the length of the cord with a rule of an inch long.
Then they measured my right thumb, and desired no more; for by a mathematical computation,
that twice round the thumb is once round the wrist, and so on to the neck and the waist, and
by the help of my old shirt, which I displayed on the ground before them for a pattern, they
fitted me exactly.  Three hundred tailors were employed in the same manner to make me clothes;
but they had another contrivance for taking my measure.  I kneeled down, and they raised a
ladder from the ground to my neck; upon this ladder one of them mounted, and let fall a plumb-line
from my collar to the floor, which just answered the length of my coat: but my waist and arms
I measured myself.  When my clothes were finished, which was done in my house (for the largest
of theirs would not have been able to hold them), they looked like the patch-work made by the
ladies in England, only that mine were all of a colour.

I had three hundred cooks to dress my victuals, in little convenient huts built about my house,
where they and their families lived, and prepared me two dishes a-piece.  I took up twenty
waiters in my hand, and placed them on the table: a hundred more attended below on the ground,
some with dishes of meat, and some with barrels of wine and other liquors slung on their shoulders;
all which the waiters above drew up, as I wanted, in a very ingenious manner, by certain cords,
as we draw the bucket up a well in Europe.  A dish of their meat was a good mouthful, and a
barrel of their liquor a reasonable draught.  Their mutton yields to ours, but their beef is
excellent.  I have had a sirloin so large, that I have been forced to make three bites of it;
but this is rare.  My servants were astonished to see me eat it, bones and all, as in our country
we do the leg of a lark.  Their geese and turkeys I usually ate at a mouthful, and I confess
they far exceed ours.  Of their smaller fowl I could take up twenty or thirty at the end of
my knife.

One day his imperial majesty, being informed of my way of living, desired “that himself and
his royal consort, with the young princes of the blood of both sexes, might have the happiness,”
as he was pleased to call it, “of dining with me.”  They came accordingly, and I placed them
in chairs of state, upon my table, just over against me, with their guards about them.  Flimnap,
the lord high treasurer, attended there likewise with his white staff; and I observed he often
looked on me with a sour countenance, which I would not seem to regard, but ate more than usual,
in honour to my dear country, as well as to fill the court with admiration.  I have some private
reasons to believe, that this visit from his majesty gave Flimnap an opportunity of doing me
ill offices to his master.  That minister had always been my secret enemy, though he outwardly
caressed me more than was usual to the moroseness of his nature.  He represented to the emperor
“the low condition of his treasury; that he was forced to take up money at a great discount;
that exchequer bills would not circulate under nine per cent. below par; that I had cost his
majesty above a million and a half of sprugs” (their greatest gold coin, about the bigness
of a spangle) “and, upon the whole, that it would be advisable in the emperor to take the first
fair occasion of dismissing me.”

I am here obliged to vindicate the reputation of an excellent lady, who was an innocent sufferer
upon my account.  The treasurer took a fancy to be jealous of his wife, from the malice of
some evil tongues, who informed him that her grace had taken a violent affection for my person;
and the court scandal ran for some time, that she once came privately to my lodging.  This
I solemnly declare to be a most infamous falsehood, without any grounds, further than that
her grace was pleased to treat me with all innocent marks of freedom and friendship.  I own
she came often to my house, but always publicly, nor ever without three more in the coach,
who were usually her sister and young daughter, and some particular acquaintance; but this
was common to many other ladies of the court.  And I still appeal to my servants round, whether
they at any time saw a coach at my door, without knowing what persons were in it.  On those
occasions, when a servant had given me notice, my custom was to go immediately to the door,
and, after paying my respects, to take up the coach and two horses very carefully in my hands
(for, if there were six horses, the postillion always unharnessed four,) and place them on
a table, where I had fixed a movable rim quite round, of five inches high, to prevent accidents.
And I have often had four coaches and horses at once on my table, full of company, while I
sat in my chair, leaning my face towards them; and when I was engaged with one set, the coachmen
would gently drive the others round my table.  I have passed many an afternoon very agreeably
in these conversations.  But I defy the treasurer, or his two informers (I will name them,
and let them make the best of it) Clustril and Drunlo, to prove that any person ever came to
me incognito, except the secretary Reldresal, who was sent by express command of his imperial
majesty, as I have before related.  I should not have dwelt so long upon this particular, if
it had not been a point wherein the reputation of a great lady is so nearly concerned, to say
nothing of my own; though I then had the honour to be a nardac, which the treasurer himself
is not; for all the world knows, that he is only a glumglum, a title inferior by one degree,
as that of a marquis is to a duke in England; yet I allow he preceded me in right of his post.
These false informations, which I afterwards came to the knowledge of by an accident not proper
to mention, made the treasurer show his lady for some time an ill countenance, and me a worse;
and although he was at last undeceived and reconciled to her, yet I lost all credit with him,
and found my interest decline very fast with the emperor himself, who was, indeed, too much
governed by that favourite.

CHAPTER VII.

The author, being informed of a design to accuse him of high-treason, makes his escape to Blefuscu.
His reception there.

Before I proceed to give an account of my leaving this kingdom, it may be proper to inform
the reader of a private intrigue which had been for two months forming against me.

I had been hitherto, all my life, a stranger to courts, for which I was unqualified by the
meanness of my condition.  I had indeed heard and read enough of the dispositions of great
princes and ministers, but never expected to have found such terrible effects of them, in so
remote a country, governed, as I thought, by very different maxims from those in Europe.

When I was just preparing to pay my attendance on the emperor of Blefuscu, a considerable person
at court (to whom I had been very serviceable, at a time when he lay under the highest displeasure
of his imperial majesty) came to my house very privately at night, in a close chair, and, without
sending his name, desired admittance.  The chairmen were dismissed; I put the chair, with his
lordship in it, into my coat-pocket: and, giving orders to a trusty servant, to say I was indisposed
and gone to sleep, I fastened the door of my house, placed the chair on the table, according
to my usual custom, and sat down by it. After the common salutations were over, observing his
lordship’s countenance full of concern, and inquiring into the reason, he desired “I would
hear him with patience, in a matter that highly concerned my honour and my life.”  His speech
was to the following effect, for I took notes of it as soon as he left me:—

“You are to know,” said he, “that several committees of council have been lately called, in
the most private manner, on your account; and it is but two days since his majesty came to
a full resolution.

“You are very sensible that Skyresh Bolgolam” (galbet, or high-admiral) “has been your mortal
enemy, almost ever since your arrival.

    “‘Articles of Impeachment against QUINBUS FLESTRIN, (the
    Man-Mountain.)

    ARTICLE I.

    “‘Whereas, by a statute made in the reign of his imperial majesty
    Calin Deffar Plune, it is enacted, that, whoever shall make water
    within the precincts of the royal palace, shall be liable to the
    pains and penalties of high-treason; notwithstanding, the said
    Quinbus Flestrin, in open breach of the said law, under colour of
    extinguishing the fire kindled in the apartment of his majesty’s most
    dear imperial consort, did maliciously, traitorously, and devilishly,
    by discharge of his urine, put out the said fire kindled in the said
    apartment, lying and being within the precincts of the said royal
    palace, against the statute in that case provided, etc. against the
    duty, etc.

    ARTICLE II.

    ARTICLE III.

    “‘That, whereas certain ambassadors arrived from the Court of
    Blefuscu, to sue for peace in his majesty’s court, he, the said
    Flestrin, did, like a false traitor, aid, abet, comfort, and divert,
    the said ambassadors, although he knew them to be servants to a
    prince who was lately an open enemy to his imperial majesty, and in
    an open war against his said majesty.

    ARTICLE IV.

    “‘That the said Quinbus Flestrin, contrary to the duty of a faithful
    subject, is now preparing to make a voyage to the court and empire of
    Blefuscu, for which he has received only verbal license from his
    imperial majesty; and, under colour of the said license, does falsely
    and traitorously intend to take the said voyage, and thereby to aid,
    comfort, and abet the emperor of Blefuscu, so lately an enemy, and in
    open war with his imperial majesty aforesaid.’

“There are some other articles; but these are the most important, of which I have read you
an abstract.

“In the several debates upon this impeachment, it must be confessed that his majesty gave many
marks of his great lenity; often urging the services you had done him, and endeavouring to
extenuate your crimes. The treasurer and admiral insisted that you should be put to the most
painful and ignominious death, by setting fire to your house at night, and the general was
to attend with twenty thousand men, armed with poisoned arrows, to shoot you on the face and
hands.  Some of your servants were to have private orders to strew a poisonous juice on your
shirts and sheets, which would soon make you tear your own flesh, and die in the utmost torture.
The general came into the same opinion; so that for a long time there was a majority against
you; but his majesty resolving, if possible, to spare your life, at last brought off the chamberlain.

“Upon this incident, Reldresal, principal secretary for private affairs, who always approved
himself your true friend, was commanded by the emperor to deliver his opinion, which he accordingly
did; and therein justified the good thoughts you have of him.  He allowed your crimes to be
great, but that still there was room for mercy, the most commendable virtue in a prince, and
for which his majesty was so justly celebrated. He said, the friendship between you and him
was so well known to the world, that perhaps the most honourable board might think him partial;
however, in obedience to the command he had received, he would freely offer his sentiments.
That if his majesty, in consideration of your services, and pursuant to his own merciful disposition,
would please to spare your life, and only give orders to put out both your eyes, he humbly
conceived, that by this expedient justice might in some measure be satisfied, and all the world
would applaud the lenity of the emperor, as well as the fair and generous proceedings of those
who have the honour to be his counsellors.  That the loss of your eyes would be no impediment
to your bodily strength, by which you might still be useful to his majesty; that blindness
is an addition to courage, by concealing dangers from us; that the fear you had for your eyes,
was the greatest difficulty in bringing over the enemy’s fleet, and it would be sufficient
for you to see by the eyes of the ministers, since the greatest princes do no more.

“This proposal was received with the utmost disapprobation by the whole board.  Bolgolam, the
admiral, could not preserve his temper, but, rising up in fury, said, he wondered how the secretary
durst presume to give his opinion for preserving the life of a traitor; that the services you
had performed were, by all true reasons of state, the great aggravation of your crimes; that
you, who were able to extinguish the fire by discharge of urine in her majesty’s apartment
(which he mentioned with horror), might, at another time, raise an inundation by the same means,
to drown the whole palace; and the same strength which enabled you to bring over the enemy’s
fleet, might serve, upon the first discontent, to carry it back; that he had good reasons to
think you were a Big-endian in your heart; and, as treason begins in the heart, before it appears
in overt-acts, so he accused you as a traitor on that account, and therefore insisted you should
be put to death.

“The treasurer was of the same opinion: he showed to what straits his majesty’s revenue was
reduced, by the charge of maintaining you, which would soon grow insupportable; that the secretary’s
expedient of putting out your eyes, was so far from being a remedy against this evil, that
it would probably increase it, as is manifest from the common practice of blinding some kind
of fowls, after which they fed the faster, and grew sooner fat; that his sacred majesty and
the council, who are your judges, were, in their own consciences, fully convinced of your guilt,
which was a sufficient argument to condemn you to death, without the formal proofs required
by the strict letter of the law.

“But his imperial majesty, fully determined against capital punishment, was graciously pleased
to say, that since the council thought the loss of your eyes too easy a censure, some other
way may be inflicted hereafter. And your friend the secretary, humbly desiring to be heard
again, in answer to what the treasurer had objected, concerning the great charge his majesty
was at in maintaining you, said, that his excellency, who had the sole disposal of the emperor’s
revenue, might easily provide against that evil, by gradually lessening your establishment;
by which, for want of sufficient for you would grow weak and faint, and lose your appetite,
and consequently, decay, and consume in a few months; neither would the stench of your carcass
be then so dangerous, when it should become more than half diminished; and immediately upon
your death five or six thousand of his majesty’s subjects might, in two or three days, cut
your flesh from your bones, take it away by cart-loads, and bury it in distant parts, to prevent
infection, leaving the skeleton as a monument of admiration to posterity.

“Thus, by the great friendship of the secretary, the whole affair was compromised.

It was a custom introduced by this prince and his ministry (very different, as I have been
assured, from the practice of former times,) that after the court had decreed any cruel execution,
either to gratify the monarch’s resentment, or the malice of a favourite, the emperor always
made a speech to his whole council, expressing his great lenity and tenderness, as qualities
known and confessed by all the world.  This speech was immediately published throughout the
kingdom; nor did any thing terrify the people so much as those encomiums on his majesty’s mercy;
because it was observed, that the more these praises were enlarged and insisted on, the more
inhuman was the punishment, and the sufferer more innocent.  Yet, as to myself, I must confess,
having never been designed for a courtier, either by my birth or education, I was so ill a
judge of things, that I could not discover the lenity and favour of this sentence, but conceived
it (perhaps erroneously) rather to be rigorous than gentle.  I sometimes thought of standing
my trial, for, although I could not deny the facts alleged in the several articles, yet I hoped
they would admit of some extenuation.  But having in my life perused many state-trials, which
I ever observed to terminate as the judges thought fit to direct, I durst not rely on so dangerous
a decision, in so critical a juncture, and against such powerful enemies.  Once I was strongly
bent upon resistance, for, while I had liberty the whole strength of that empire could hardly
subdue me, and I might easily with stones pelt the metropolis to pieces; but I soon rejected
that project with horror, by remembering the oath I had made to the emperor, the favours I
received from him, and the high title of nardac he conferred upon me.  Neither had I so soon
learned the gratitude of courtiers, to persuade myself, that his majesty’s present seventies
acquitted me of all past obligations.

At last, I fixed upon a resolution, for which it is probable I may incur some censure, and
not unjustly; for I confess I owe the preserving of mine eyes, and consequently my liberty,
to my own great rashness and want of experience; because, if I had then known the nature of
princes and ministers, which I have since observed in many other courts, and their methods
of treating criminals less obnoxious than myself, I should, with great alacrity and readiness,
have submitted to so easy a punishment. But hurried on by the precipitancy of youth, and having
his imperial majesty’s license to pay my attendance upon the emperor of Blefuscu, I took this
opportunity, before the three days were elapsed, to send a letter to my friend the secretary,
signifying my resolution of setting out that morning for Blefuscu, pursuant to the leave I
had got; and, without waiting for an answer, I went to that side of the island where our fleet
lay.  I seized a large man of war, tied a cable to the prow, and, lifting up the anchors, I
stripped myself, put my clothes (together with my coverlet, which I carried under my arm) into
the vessel, and, drawing it after me, between wading and swimming arrived at the royal port
of Blefuscu, where the people had long expected me: they lent me two guides to direct me to
the capital city, which is of the same name.  I held them in my hands, till I came within two
hundred yards of the gate, and desired them “to signify my arrival to one of the secretaries,
and let him know, I there waited his majesty’s command.”  I had an answer in about an hour,
“that his majesty, attended by the royal family, and great officers of the court, was coming
out to receive me.”  I advanced a hundred yards.  The emperor and his train alighted from their
horses, the empress and ladies from their coaches, and I did not perceive they were in any
fright or concern.  I lay on the ground to kiss his majesty’s and the empress’s hands.  I told
his majesty, “that I was come according to my promise, and with the license of the emperor
my master, to have the honour of seeing so mighty a monarch, and to offer him any service in
my power, consistent with my duty to my own prince;” not mentioning a word of my disgrace,
because I had hitherto no regular information of it, and might suppose myself wholly ignorant
of any such design; neither could I reasonably conceive that the emperor would discover the
secret, while I was out of his power; wherein, however, it soon appeared I was deceived.

I shall not trouble the reader with the particular account of my reception at this court, which
was suitable to the generosity of so great a prince; nor of the difficulties I was in for want
of a house and bed, being forced to lie on the ground, wrapped up in my coverlet.

CHAPTER VIII.

The author, by a lucky accident, finds means to leave Blefuscu; and, after some difficulties,
returns safe to his native country.

Three days after my arrival, walking out of curiosity to the north-east coast of the island,
I observed, about half a league off in the sea, somewhat that looked like a boat overturned.
This fleet sailed round, while I went back the shortest way to the coast, where I first discovered
the boat.  I found the tide had driven it still nearer.  The seamen were all provided with
cordage, which I had beforehand twisted to a sufficient strength. When the ships came up, I
stripped myself, and waded till I came within a hundred yards off the boat, after which I was
forced to swim till I got up to it.  The seamen threw me the end of the cord, which I fastened
to a hole in the fore-part of the boat, and the other end to a man of war; but I found all
my labour to little purpose; for, being out of my depth, I was not able to work.  In this necessity
I was forced to swim behind, and push the boat forward, as often as I could, with one of my
hands; and the tide favouring me, I advanced so far that I could just hold up my chin and feel
the ground.  I rested two or three minutes, and then gave the boat another shove, and so on,
till the sea was no higher than my arm-pits; and now, the most laborious part being over, I
took out my other cables, which were stowed in one of the ships, and fastened them first to
the boat, and then to nine of the vessels which attended me; the wind being favourable, the
seamen towed, and I shoved, until we arrived within forty yards of the shore; and, waiting
till the tide was out, I got dry to the boat, and by the assistance of two thousand men, with
ropes and engines, I made a shift to turn it on its bottom, and found it was but little damaged.

I did very much wonder, in all this time, not to have heard of any express relating to me from
our emperor to the court of Blefuscu.  But I was afterward given privately to understand, that
his imperial majesty, never imagining I had the least notice of his designs, believed I was
only gone to Blefuscu in performance of my promise, according to the license he had given me,
which was well known at our court, and would return in a few days, when the ceremony was ended.
But he was at last in pain at my long absence; and after consulting with the treasurer and
the rest of that cabal, a person of quality was dispatched with the copy of the articles against
me.  I told him, “that since fortune, whether good or evil, had thrown a vessel in my way,
I was resolved to venture myself on the ocean, rather than be an occasion of difference between
two such mighty monarchs.”  Neither did I find the emperor at all displeased; and I discovered,
by a certain accident, that he was very glad of my resolution, and so were most of his ministers.

These considerations moved me to hasten my departure somewhat sooner than I intended; to which
the court, impatient to have me gone, very readily contributed.  Five hundred workmen were
employed to make two sails to my boat, according to my directions, by quilting thirteen folds
of their strongest linen together.  I was at the pains of making ropes and cables, by twisting
ten, twenty, or thirty of the thickest and strongest of theirs.  A great stone that I happened
to find, after a long search, by the sea-shore, served me for an anchor.  I had the tallow
of three hundred cows, for greasing my boat, and other uses.  I was at incredible pains in
cutting down some of the largest timber-trees, for oars and masts, wherein I was, however,
much assisted by his majesty’s ship-carpenters, who helped me in smoothing them, after I had
done the rough work.

In about a month, when all was prepared, I sent to receive his majesty’s commands, and to take
my leave.  The emperor and royal family came out of the palace; I lay down on my face to kiss
his hand, which he very graciously gave me: so did the empress and young princes of the blood.

I stored the boat with the carcases of a hundred oxen, and three hundred sheep, with bread
and drink proportionable, and as much meat ready dressed as four hundred cooks could provide.
I advanced forward, and cast anchor on the lee-side of the island, which seemed to be uninhabited.
I then took some refreshment, and went to my rest.  I slept well, and as I conjectured at least
six hours, for I found the day broke in two hours after I awaked. It was a clear night.  I
ate my breakfast before the sun was up; and heaving anchor, the wind being favourable, I steered
the same course that I had done the day before, wherein I was directed by my pocket compass.
My intention was to reach, if possible, one of those islands which I had reason to believe
lay to the north-east of Van Diemen’s Land.  I discovered nothing all that day; but upon the
next, about three in the afternoon, when I had by my computation made twenty-four leagues from
Blefuscu, I descried a sail steering to the south-east; my course was due east.  I hailed her,
but could get no answer; yet I found I gained upon her, for the wind slackened.  I made all
the sail I could, and in half an hour she spied me, then hung out her ancient, and discharged
a gun.  It is not easy to express the joy I was in, upon the unexpected hope of once more seeing
my beloved country, and the dear pledges I left in it.  The ship slackened her sails, and I
came up with her between five and six in the evening, September 26th; but my heart leaped within
me to see her English colours.  I put my cows and sheep into my coat-pockets, and got on board
with all my little cargo of provisions.  The vessel was an English merchantman, returning from
Japan by the North and South seas; the captain, Mr. John Biddel, of Deptford, a very civil
man, and an excellent sailor.

We were now in the latitude of 30 degrees south; there were about fifty men in the ship; and
here I met an old comrade of mine, one Peter Williams, who gave me a good character to the
captain.  This gentleman treated me with kindness, and desired I would let him know what place
I came from last, and whither I was bound; which I did in a few words, but he thought I was
raving, and that the dangers I underwent had disturbed my head; whereupon I took my black cattle
and sheep out of my pocket, which, after great astonishment, clearly convinced him of my veracity.
I then showed him the gold given me by the emperor of Blefuscu, together with his majesty’s
picture at full length, and some other rarities of that country.  I gave him two purses of
two hundreds sprugs each, and promised, when we arrived in England, to make him a present of
a cow and a sheep big with young.

I shall not trouble the reader with a particular account of this voyage, which was very prosperous
for the most part.  We arrived in the Downs on the 13th of April, 1702.  I had only one misfortune,
that the rats on board carried away one of my sheep; I found her bones in a hole, picked clean
from the flesh.  The rest of my cattle I got safe ashore, and set them a-grazing in a bowling-green
at Greenwich, where the fineness of the grass made them feed very heartily, though I had always
feared the contrary: neither could I possibly have preserved them in so long a voyage, if the
captain had not allowed me some of his best biscuit, which, rubbed to powder, and mingled with
water, was their constant food.  Since my last return I find the breed is considerably increased,
especially the sheep, which I hope will prove much to the advantage of the woollen manufacture,
by the fineness of the fleeces.

I stayed but two months with my wife and family, for my insatiable desire of seeing foreign
countries, would suffer me to continue no longer.  I left fifteen hundred pounds with my wife,
and fixed her in a good house at Redriff.  My remaining stock I carried with me, part in money
and part in goods, in hopes to improve my fortunes.  My eldest uncle John had left me an estate
in land, near Epping, of about thirty pounds a-year; and I had a long lease of the Black Bull
in Fetter-Lane, which yielded me as much more; so that I was not in any danger of leaving my
family upon the parish.  My son Johnny, named so after his uncle, was at the grammar-school,
and a towardly child.  My daughter Betty (who is now well married, and has children) was then
at her needle-work.  I took leave of my wife, and boy and girl, with tears on both sides, and
went on board the Adventure, a merchant ship of three hundred tons, bound for Surat, captain
John Nicholas, of Liverpool, commander.  But my account of this voyage must be referred to
the Second Part of my Travels.

PART II.  A VOYAGE TO BROBDINGNAG.

CHAPTER I.

A great storm described; the long boat sent to fetch water; the author goes with it to discover
the country.  He is left on shore, is seized by one of the natives, and carried to a farmer’s
house.  His reception, with several accidents that happened there.  A description of the inhabitants.
Then we set the mizen, main-top-sail, and the fore-top-sail.  Our course was east-north-east,
the wind was at south-west.  I must confess no object ever disgusted me so much as the sight
of her monstrous breast, which I cannot tell what to compare with, so as to give the curious
reader an idea of its bulk, shape, and colour.  It stood prominent six feet, and could not
be less than sixteen in circumference.  The nipple was about half the bigness of my head, and
the hue both of that and the dug, so varied with spots, pimples, and freckles, that nothing
could appear more nauseous: for I had a near sight of her, she sitting down, the more conveniently
to give suck, and I standing on the table.  This made me reflect upon the fair skins of our
English ladies, who appear so beautiful to us, only because they are of our own size, and their
defects not to be seen but through a magnifying glass; where we find by experiment that the
smoothest and whitest skins look rough, and coarse, and ill-coloured.  I was pressed to do
more than one thing which another could not do for me, and therefore endeavoured to make my
mistress understand, that I desired to be set down on the floor; which after she had done,
my bashfulness would not suffer me to express myself farther, than by pointing to the door,
and bowing several times.  The good woman, with much difficulty, at last perceived what I would
be at, and taking me up again in her hand, walked into the garden, where she set me down. 
I went on one side about two hundred yards, and beckoning to her not to look or to follow me,
I hid myself between two leaves of sorrel, and there discharged the necessities of nature.

CHAPTER II.

A description of the farmer’s daughter.  The author carried to a market-town, and then to the
metropolis.  The particulars of his journey.

My mistress had a daughter of nine years old, a child of towardly parts for her age, very dexterous
at her needle, and skilful in dressing her baby.  Her mother and she contrived to fit up the
baby’s cradle for me against night: the cradle was put into a small drawer of a cabinet, and
the drawer placed upon a hanging shelf for fear of the rats.  This was my bed all the time
I staid with those people, though made more convenient by degrees, as I began to learn their
language and make my wants known. This young girl was so handy, that after I had once or twice
pulled off my clothes before her, she was able to dress and undress me, though I never gave
her that trouble when she would let me do either myself.  She made me seven shirts, and some
other linen, of as fine cloth as could be got, which indeed was coarser than sackcloth; and
these she constantly washed for me with her own hands.  She was likewise my school-mistress,
to teach me the language: when I pointed to any thing, she told me the name of it in her own
tongue, so that in a few days I was able to call for whatever I had a mind to.  She was very
good-natured, and not above forty feet high, being little for her age.  She gave me the name
of Grildrig, which the family took up, and afterwards the whole kingdom. The word imports what
the Latins call nanunculus, the Italians homunceletino, and the English mannikin.  To her I
chiefly owe my preservation in that country: we never parted while I was there; I called her
my Glumdalclitch, or little nurse; and should be guilty of great ingratitude, if I omitted
this honourable mention of her care and affection towards me, which I heartily wish it lay
in my power to requite as she deserves, instead of being the innocent, but unhappy instrument
of her disgrace, as I have too much reason to fear.

It now began to be known and talked of in the neighbourhood, that my master had found a strange
animal in the field, about the bigness of a splacnuck, but exactly shaped in every part like
a human creature; which it likewise imitated in all its actions; seemed to speak in a little
language of its own, had already learned several words of theirs, went erect upon two legs,
was tame and gentle, would come when it was called, do whatever it was bid, had the finest
limbs in the world, and a complexion fairer than a nobleman’s daughter of three years old.
Another farmer, who lived hard by, and was a particular friend of my master, came on a visit
on purpose to inquire into the truth of this story.  I was immediately produced, and placed
upon a table, where I walked as I was commanded, drew my hanger, put it up again, made my reverence
to my master’s guest, asked him in his own language how he did, and told him he was welcome,
just as my little nurse had instructed me.  This man, who was old and dim-sighted, put on his
spectacles to behold me better; at which I could not forbear laughing very heartily, for his
eyes appeared like the full moon shining into a chamber at two windows.  Our people, who discovered
the cause of my mirth, bore me company in laughing, at which the old fellow was fool enough
to be angry and out of countenance.  He had the character of a great miser; and, to my misfortune,
he well deserved it, by the cursed advice he gave my master, to show me as a sight upon a market-day
in the next town, which was half an hour’s riding, about two-and-twenty miles from our house.
I guessed there was some mischief when I observed my master and his friend whispering together,
sometimes pointing at me; and my fears made me fancy that I overheard and understood some of
their words.  But the next morning Glumdalclitch, my little nurse, told me the whole matter,
which she had cunningly picked out from her mother.  The poor girl laid me on her bosom, and
fell a weeping with shame and grief.  She apprehended some mischief would happen to me from
rude vulgar folks, who might squeeze me to death, or break one of my limbs by taking me in
their hands.  She had also observed how modest I was in my nature, how nicely I regarded my
honour, and what an indignity I should conceive it, to be exposed for money as a public spectacle,
to the meanest of the people.  She said, her papa and mamma had promised that Grildrig should
be hers; but now she found they meant to serve her as they did last year, when they pretended
to give her a lamb, and yet, as soon as it was fat, sold it to a butcher. For my own part,
I may truly affirm, that I was less concerned than my nurse.  I had a strong hope, which never
left me, that I should one day recover my liberty: and as to the ignominy of being carried
about for a monster, I considered myself to be a perfect stranger in the country, and that
such a misfortune could never be charged upon me as a reproach, if ever I should return to
England, since the king of Great Britain himself, in my condition, must have undergone the
same distress.

My master, pursuant to the advice of his friend, carried me in a box the next market-day to
the neighbouring town, and took along with him his little daughter, my nurse, upon a pillion
behind him.  The box was close on every side, with a little door for me to go in and out, and
a few gimlet holes to let in air.  The girl had been so careful as to put the quilt of her
baby’s bed into it, for me to lie down on.  However, I was terribly shaken and discomposed
in this journey, though it was but of half an hour: for the horse went about forty feet at
every step and trotted so high, that the agitation was equal to the rising and falling of a
ship in a great storm, but much more frequent.  Our journey was somewhat farther than from
London to St. Alban’s.  My master alighted at an inn which he used to frequent; and after consulting
awhile with the inn-keeper, and making some necessary preparations, he hired the grultrud,
or crier, to give notice through the town of a strange creature to be seen at the sign of the
Green Eagle, not so big as a splacnuck (an animal in that country very finely shaped, about
six feet long,) and in every part of the body resembling a human creature, could speak several
words, and perform a hundred diverting tricks.

I was placed upon a table in the largest room of the inn, which might be near three hundred
feet square.  My little nurse stood on a low stool close to the table, to take care of me,
and direct what I should do.  My master, to avoid a crowd, would suffer only thirty people
at a time to see me.  I walked about on the table as the girl commanded; she asked me questions,
as far as she knew my understanding of the language reached, and I answered them as loud as
I could.  I turned about several times to the company, paid my humble respects, said they were
welcome, and used some other speeches I had been taught.  I took up a thimble filled with liquor,
which Glumdalclitch had given me for a cup, and drank their health, I drew out my hanger, and
flourished with it after the manner of fencers in England.  My nurse gave me a part of a straw,
which I exercised as a pike, having learnt the art in my youth.  I was that day shown to twelve
sets of company, and as often forced to act over again the same fopperies, till I was half
dead with weariness and vexation; for those who had seen me made such wonderful reports, that
the people were ready to break down the doors to come in.  My master, for his own interest,
would not suffer any one to touch me except my nurse; and to prevent danger, benches were set
round the table at such a distance as to put me out of every body’s reach.  However, an unlucky
school-boy aimed a hazel nut directly at my head, which very narrowly missed me; otherwise
it came with so much violence, that it would have infallibly knocked out my brains, for it
was almost as large as a small pumpkin, but I had the satisfaction to see the young rogue well
beaten, and turned out of the room.

My master gave public notice that he would show me again the next market-day; and in the meantime
he prepared a convenient vehicle for me, which he had reason enough to do; for I was so tired
with my first journey, and with entertaining company for eight hours together, that I could
hardly stand upon my legs, or speak a word.  It was at least three days before I recovered
my strength; and that I might have no rest at home, all the neighbouring gentlemen from a hundred
miles round, hearing of my fame, came to see me at my master’s own house.  There could not
be fewer than thirty persons with their wives and children (for the country is very populous;)
and my master demanded the rate of a full room whenever he showed me at home, although it were
only to a single family; so that for some time I had but little ease every day of the week
(except Wednesday, which is their Sabbath,) although I were not carried to the town.

My master, finding how profitable I was likely to be, resolved to carry me to the most considerable
cities of the kingdom.  Having therefore provided himself with all things necessary for a long
journey, and settled his affairs at home, he took leave of his wife, and upon the 17th of August,
1703, about two months after my arrival, we set out for the metropolis, situate near the middle
of that empire, and about three thousand miles distance from our house.  My master made his
daughter Glumdalclitch ride behind him.  She carried me on her lap, in a box tied about her
waist.  The girl had lined it on all sides with the softest cloth she could get, well quilted
underneath, furnished it with her baby’s bed, provided me with linen and other necessaries,
and made everything as convenient as she could.  We had no other company but a boy of the house,
who rode after us with the luggage.

My master’s design was to show me in all the towns by the way, and to step out of the road
for fifty or a hundred miles, to any village, or person of quality’s house, where he might
expect custom.  We made easy journeys, of not above seven or eight score miles a-day; for Glumdalclitch,
on purpose to spare me, complained she was tired with the trotting of the horse.  She often
took me out of my box, at my own desire, to give me air, and show me the country, but always
held me fast by a leading-string.  We passed over five or six rivers, many degrees broader
and deeper than the Nile or the Ganges: and there was hardly a rivulet so small as the Thames
at London-bridge.  We were ten weeks in our journey, and I was shown in eighteen large towns,
besides many villages, and private families.

On the 26th day of October we arrived at the metropolis, called in their language Lorbrulgrud,
or Pride of the Universe.  My master took a lodging in the principal street of the city, not
far from the royal palace, and put out bills in the usual form, containing an exact description
of my person and parts.  He hired a large room between three and four hundred feet wide.  He
provided a table sixty feet in diameter, upon which I was to act my part, and pallisadoed it
round three feet from the edge, and as many high, to prevent my falling over.  I was shown
ten times a-day, to the wonder and satisfaction of all people.  I could now speak the language
tolerably well, and perfectly understood every word, that was spoken to me.  Besides, I had
learnt their alphabet, and could make a shift to explain a sentence here and there; for Glumdalclitch
had been my instructor while we were at home, and at leisure hours during our journey.  She
carried a little book in her pocket, not much larger than a Sanson’s Atlas; it was a common
treatise for the use of young girls, giving a short account of their religion: out of this
she taught me my letters, and interpreted the words.

CHAPTER III.

The author sent for to court.  The queen buys him of his master the farmer, and presents him
to the king.  He disputes with his majesty’s great scholars.  An apartment at court provided
for the author.  He is in high favour with the queen.  He stands up for the honour of his own
country.  His quarrels with the queen’s dwarf.

The frequent labours I underwent every day, made, in a few weeks, a very considerable change
in my health: the more my master got by me, the more insatiable he grew.  I had quite lost
my stomach, and was almost reduced to a skeleton.  The farmer observed it, and concluding I
must soon die, resolved to make as good a hand of me as he could.  While he was thus reasoning
and resolving with himself, a sardral, or gentleman-usher, came from court, commanding my master
to carry me immediately thither for the diversion of the queen and her ladies.  Some of the
latter had already been to see me, and reported strange things of my beauty, behaviour, and
good sense.  Her majesty, and those who attended her, were beyond measure delighted with my
demeanour.  I fell on my knees, and begged the honour of kissing her imperial foot; but this
gracious princess held out her little finger towards me, after I was set on the table, which
I embraced in both my arms, and put the tip of it with the utmost respect to my lip.  She made
me some general questions about my country and my travels, which I answered as distinctly,
and in as few words as I could.  She asked, “whether I could be content to live at court?”
I bowed down to the board of the table, and humbly answered “that I was my master’s slave:
but, if I were at my own disposal, I should be proud to devote my life to her majesty’s service.”
She then asked my master, “whether he was willing to sell me at a good price?” He, who apprehended
I could not live a month, was ready enough to part with me, and demanded a thousand pieces
of gold, which were ordered him on the spot, each piece being about the bigness of eight hundred
moidores; but allowing for the proportion of all things between that country and Europe, and
the high price of gold among them, was hardly so great a sum as a thousand guineas would be
in England.  I then said to the queen, “since I was now her majesty’s most humble creature
and vassal, I must beg the favour, that Glumdalclitch, who had always tended me with so much
care and kindness, and understood to do it so well, might be admitted into her service, and
continue to be my nurse and instructor.”

Her majesty agreed to my petition, and easily got the farmer’s consent, who was glad enough
to have his daughter preferred at court, and the poor girl herself was not able to hide her
joy.  My late master withdrew, bidding me farewell, and saying he had left me in a good service;
to which I replied not a word, only making him a slight bow.

The queen observed my coldness; and, when the farmer was gone out of the apartment, asked me
the reason.  I made bold to tell her majesty, “that I owed no other obligation to my late master,
than his not dashing out the brains of a poor harmless creature, found by chance in his fields:
which obligation was amply recompensed, by the gain he had made in showing me through half
the kingdom, and the price he had now sold me for.  That the life I had since led was laborious
enough to kill an animal of ten times my strength.  That my health was much impaired, by the
continual drudgery of entertaining the rabble every hour of the day; and that, if my master
had not thought my life in danger, her majesty would not have got so cheap a bargain.  But
as I was out of all fear of being ill-treated under the protection of so great and good an
empress, the ornament of nature, the darling of the world, the delight of her subjects, the
phoenix of the creation, so I hoped my late master’s apprehensions would appear to be groundless;
for I already found my spirits revive, by the influence of her most august presence.”

This was the sum of my speech, delivered with great improprieties and hesitation.  The latter
part was altogether framed in the style peculiar to that people, whereof I learned some phrases
from Glumdalclitch, while she was carrying me to court.

The queen, giving great allowance for my defectiveness in speaking, was, however, surprised
at so much wit and good sense in so diminutive an animal.  She took me in her own hand, and
carried me to the king, who was then retired to his cabinet.  His majesty, a prince of much
gravity and austere countenance, not well observing my shape at first view, asked the queen
after a cold manner “how long it was since she grew fond of a splacnuck?” for such it seems
he took me to be, as I lay upon my breast in her majesty’s right hand.  But this princess,
who has an infinite deal of wit and humour, set me gently on my feet upon the scrutoire, and
commanded me to give his majesty an account of myself, which I did in a very few words: and
Glumdalclitch who attended at the cabinet door, and could not endure I should be out of her
sight, being admitted, confirmed all that had passed from my arrival at her father’s house.

The king, although he be as learned a person as any in his dominions, had been educated in
the study of philosophy, and particularly mathematics; yet when he observed my shape exactly,
and saw me walk erect, before I began to speak, conceived I might be a piece of clock-work
(which is in that country arrived to a very great perfection) contrived by some ingenious artist.
But when he heard my voice, and found what I delivered to be regular and rational, he could
not conceal his astonishment.  He was by no means satisfied with the relation I gave him of
the manner I came into his kingdom, but thought it a story concerted between Glumdalclitch
and her father, who had taught me a set of words to make me sell at a better price.  Upon this
imagination, he put several other questions to me, and still received rational answers: no
otherwise defective than by a foreign accent, and an imperfect knowledge in the language, with
some rustic phrases which I had learned at the farmer’s house, and did not suit the polite
style of a court.

His majesty sent for three great scholars, who were then in their weekly waiting, according
to the custom in that country.  These gentlemen, after they had a while examined my shape with
much nicety, were of different opinions concerning me.  They all agreed that I could not be
produced according to the regular laws of nature, because I was not framed with a capacity
of preserving my life, either by swiftness, or climbing of trees, or digging holes in the earth.
They observed by my teeth, which they viewed with great exactness, that I was a carnivorous
animal; yet most quadrupeds being an overmatch for me, and field mice, with some others, too
nimble, they could not imagine how I should be able to support myself, unless I fed upon snails
and other insects, which they offered, by many learned arguments, to evince that I could not
possibly do.  One of these virtuosi seemed to think that I might be an embryo, or abortive
birth.  But this opinion was rejected by the other two, who observed my limbs to be perfect
and finished; and that I had lived several years, as it was manifest from my beard, the stumps
whereof they plainly discovered through a magnifying glass.  They would not allow me to be
a dwarf, because my littleness was beyond all degrees of comparison; for the queen’s favourite
dwarf, the smallest ever known in that kingdom, was near thirty feet high.  After much debate,
they concluded unanimously, that I was only relplum scalcath, which is interpreted literally
lusus naturæ; a determination exactly agreeable to the modern philosophy of Europe, whose professors,
disdaining the old evasion of occult causes, whereby the followers of Aristotle endeavoured
in vain to disguise their ignorance, have invented this wonderful solution of all difficulties,
to the unspeakable advancement of human knowledge.

After this decisive conclusion, I entreated to be heard a word or two.  I applied myself to
the king, and assured his majesty, “that I came from a country which abounded with several
millions of both sexes, and of my own stature; where the animals, trees, and houses, were all
in proportion, and where, by consequence, I might be as able to defend myself, and to find
sustenance, as any of his majesty’s subjects could do here; which I took for a full answer
to those gentlemen’s arguments.”  To this they only replied with a smile of contempt, saying,
“that the farmer had instructed me very well in my lesson.”  The king, who had a much better
understanding, dismissing his learned men, sent for the farmer, who by good fortune was not
yet gone out of town.  Having therefore first examined him privately, and then confronted him
with me and the young girl, his majesty began to think that what we told him might possibly
be true. He desired the queen to order that a particular care should be taken of me; and was
of opinion that Glumdalclitch should still continue in her office of tending me, because he
observed we had a great affection for each other.  A convenient apartment was provided for
her at court: she had a sort of governess appointed to take care of her education, a maid to
dress her, and two other servants for menial offices; but the care of me was wholly appropriated
to herself.  The queen commanded her own cabinet-maker to contrive a box, that might serve
me for a bedchamber, after the model that Glumdalclitch and I should agree upon. This man was
a most ingenious artist, and according to my direction, in three weeks finished for me a wooden
chamber of sixteen feet square, and twelve high, with sash-windows, a door, and two closets,
like a London bed-chamber.  The board, that made the ceiling, was to be lifted up and down
by two hinges, to put in a bed ready furnished by her majesty’s upholsterer, which Glumdalclitch
took out every day to air, made it with her own hands, and letting it down at night, locked
up the roof over me. A nice workman, who was famous for little curiosities, undertook to make
me two chairs, with backs and frames, of a substance not unlike ivory, and two tables, with
a cabinet to put my things in.  The room was quilted on all sides, as well as the floor and
the ceiling, to prevent any accident from the carelessness of those who carried me, and to
break the force of a jolt, when I went in a coach.  I desired a lock for my door, to prevent
rats and mice from coming in.  The smith, after several attempts, made the smallest that ever
was seen among them, for I have known a larger at the gate of a gentleman’s house in England.
I made a shift to keep the key in a pocket of my own, fearing Glumdalclitch might lose it.
The queen likewise ordered the thinnest silks that could be gotten, to make me clothes, not
much thicker than an English blanket, very cumbersome till I was accustomed to them.  They
were after the fashion of the kingdom, partly resembling the Persian, and partly the Chinese,
and are a very grave and decent habit.

The queen became so fond of my company, that she could not dine without me.  I had a table
placed upon the same at which her majesty ate, just at her left elbow, and a chair to sit on.
Glumdalclitch stood on a stool on the floor near my table, to assist and take care of me. 
I had an entire set of silver dishes and plates, and other necessaries, which, in proportion
to those of the queen, were not much bigger than what I have seen in a London toy-shop for
the furniture of a baby-house: these my little nurse kept in her pocket in a silver box, and
gave me at meals as I wanted them, always cleaning them herself.  No person dined with the
queen but the two princesses royal, the eldest sixteen years old, and the younger at that time
thirteen and a month.  Her majesty used to put a bit of meat upon one of my dishes, out of
which I carved for myself, and her diversion was to see me eat in miniature: for the queen
(who had indeed but a weak stomach) took up, at one mouthful, as much as a dozen English farmers
could eat at a meal, which to me was for some time a very nauseous sight.  She would craunch
the wing of a lark, bones and all, between her teeth, although it were nine times as large
as that of a full-grown turkey; and put a bit of bread into her mouth as big as two twelve-penny
loaves.  She drank out of a golden cup, above a hogshead at a draught.  Her knives were twice
as long as a scythe, set straight upon the handle.  The spoons, forks, and other instruments,
were all in the same proportion.  I remember when Glumdalclitch carried me, out of curiosity,
to see some of the tables at court, where ten or a dozen of those enormous knives and forks
were lifted up together, I thought I had never till then beheld so terrible a sight.

It is the custom, that every Wednesday (which, as I have observed, is their Sabbath) the king
and queen, with the royal issue of both sexes, dine together in the apartment of his majesty,
to whom I was now become a great favourite; and at these times, my little chair and table were
placed at his left hand, before one of the salt-cellars.  This prince took a pleasure in conversing
with me, inquiring into the manners, religion, laws, government, and learning of Europe; wherein
I gave him the best account I was able.  His apprehension was so clear, and his judgment so
exact, that he made very wise reflections and observations upon all I said.

But as I was not in a condition to resent injuries, so upon mature thoughts I began to doubt
whether I was injured or no.  For, after having been accustomed several months to the sight
and converse of this people, and observed every object upon which I cast mine eyes to be of
proportionable magnitude, the horror I had at first conceived from their bulk and aspect was
so far worn off, that if I had then beheld a company of English lords and ladies in their finery
and birth-day clothes, acting their several parts in the most courtly manner of strutting,
and bowing, and prating, to say the truth, I should have been strongly tempted to laugh as
much at them as the king and his grandees did at me.  Neither, indeed, could I forbear smiling
at myself, when the queen used to place me upon her hand towards a looking-glass, by which
both our persons appeared before me in full view together; and there could be nothing more
ridiculous than the comparison; so that I really began to imagine myself dwindled many degrees
below my usual size.

Nothing angered and mortified me so much as the queen’s dwarf; who being of the lowest stature
that was ever in that country (for I verily think he was not full thirty feet high), became
so insolent at seeing a creature so much beneath him, that he would always affect to swagger
and look big as he passed by me in the queen’s antechamber, while I was standing on some table
talking with the lords or ladies of the court, and he seldom failed of a smart word or two
upon my littleness; against which I could only revenge myself by calling him brother, challenging
him to wrestle, and such repartees as are usually in the mouths of court pages. One day, at
dinner, this malicious little cub was so nettled with something I had said to him, that, raising
himself upon the frame of her majesty’s chair, he took me up by the middle, as I was sitting
down, not thinking any harm, and let me drop into a large silver bowl of cream, and then ran
away as fast as he could.  I fell over head and ears, and, if I had not been a good swimmer,
it might have gone very hard with me; for Glumdalclitch in that instant happened to be at the
other end of the room, and the queen was in such a fright, that she wanted presence of mind
to assist me.  But my little nurse ran to my relief, and took me out, after I had swallowed
above a quart of cream.  I was put to bed: however, I received no other damage than the loss
of a suit of clothes, which was utterly spoiled.  The dwarf was soundly whipt, and as a farther
punishment, forced to drink up the bowl of cream into which he had thrown me: neither was he
ever restored to favour; for soon after the queen bestowed him on a lady of high quality, so
that I saw him no more, to my very great satisfaction; for I could not tell to what extremities
such a malicious urchin might have carried his resentment.

He had before served me a scurvy trick, which set the queen a-laughing, although at the same
time she was heartily vexed, and would have immediately cashiered him, if I had not been so
generous as to intercede. Her majesty had taken a marrow-bone upon her plate, and, after knocking
out the marrow, placed the bone again in the dish erect, as it stood before; the dwarf, watching
his opportunity, while Glumdalclitch was gone to the side-board, mounted the stool that she
stood on to take care of me at meals, took me up in both hands, and squeezing my legs together,
wedged them into the marrow bone above my waist, where I stuck for some time, and made a very
ridiculous figure.  I believe it was near a minute before any one knew what was become of me;
for I thought it below me to cry out.  But, as princes seldom get their meat hot, my legs were
not scalded, only my stockings and breeches in a sad condition.  The dwarf, at my entreaty,
had no other punishment than a sound whipping.

I was frequently rallied by the queen upon account of my fearfulness; and she used to ask me
whether the people of my country were as great cowards as myself?  The occasion was this: the
kingdom is much pestered with flies in summer; and these odious insects, each of them as big
as a Dunstable lark, hardly gave me any rest while I sat at dinner, with their continual humming
and buzzing about mine ears.  They would sometimes alight upon my victuals, and leave their
loathsome excrement, or spawn behind, which to me was very visible, though not to the natives
of that country, whose large optics were not so acute as mine, in viewing smaller objects.
Sometimes they would fix upon my nose, or forehead, where they stung me to the quick, smelling
very offensively; and I could easily trace that viscous matter, which, our naturalists tell
us, enables those creatures to walk with their feet upwards upon a ceiling.  I had much ado
to defend myself against these detestable animals, and could not forbear starting when they
came on my face.  It was the common practice of the dwarf, to catch a number of these insects
in his hand, as schoolboys do among us, and let them out suddenly under my nose, on purpose
to frighten me, and divert the queen.  My remedy was to cut them in pieces with my knife, as
they flew in the air, wherein my dexterity was much admired.

I remember, one morning, when Glumdalclitch had set me in a box upon a window, as she usually
did in fair days to give me air (for I durst not venture to let the box be hung on a nail out
of the window, as we do with cages in England), after I had lifted up one of my sashes, and
sat down at my table to eat a piece of sweet cake for my breakfast, above twenty wasps, allured
by the smell, came flying into the room, humming louder than the drones of as many bagpipes.
Some of them seized my cake, and carried it piecemeal away; others flew about my head and face,
confounding me with the noise, and putting me in the utmost terror of their stings.  However,
I had the courage to rise and draw my hanger, and attack them in the air.  I dispatched four
of them, but the rest got away, and I presently shut my window.  These insects were as large
as partridges: I took out their stings, found them an inch and a half long, and as sharp as
needles.  I carefully preserved them all; and having since shown them, with some other curiosities,
in several parts of Europe, upon my return to England I gave three of them to Gresham College,
and kept the fourth for myself.

CHAPTER IV.

The country described.  A proposal for correcting modern maps.  The king’s palace; and some
account of the metropolis.  The author’s way of travelling.  The chief temple described.

I now intend to give the reader a short description of this country, as far as I travelled
in it, which was not above two thousand miles round Lorbrulgrud, the metropolis.  For the queen,
whom I always attended, never went farther when she accompanied the king in his progresses,
and there staid till his majesty returned from viewing his frontiers.  The whole extent of
this prince’s dominions reaches about six thousand miles in length, and from three to five
in breadth: whence I cannot but conclude, that our geographers of Europe are in a great error,
by supposing nothing but sea between Japan and California; for it was ever my opinion, that
there must be a balance of earth to counterpoise the great continent of Tartary; and therefore
they ought to correct their maps and charts, by joining this vast tract of land to the north-west
parts of America, wherein I shall be ready to lend them my assistance.

The kingdom is a peninsula, terminated to the north-east by a ridge of mountains thirty miles
high, which are altogether impassable, by reason of the volcanoes upon the tops: neither do
the most learned know what sort of mortals inhabit beyond those mountains, or whether they
be inhabited at all.  On the three other sides, it is bounded by the ocean. There is not one
seaport in the whole kingdom: and those parts of the coasts into which the rivers issue, are
so full of pointed rocks, and the sea generally so rough, that there is no venturing with the
smallest of their boats; so that these people are wholly excluded from any commerce with the
rest of the world.  But the large rivers are full of vessels, and abound with excellent fish;
for they seldom get any from the sea, because the sea fish are of the same size with those
in Europe, and consequently not worth catching; whereby it is manifest, that nature, in the
production of plants and animals of so extraordinary a bulk, is wholly confined to this continent,
of which I leave the reasons to be determined by philosophers.  However, now and then they
take a whale that happens to be dashed against the rocks, which the common people feed on heartily.
These whales I have known so large, that a man could hardly carry one upon his shoulders; and
sometimes, for curiosity, they are brought in hampers to Lorbrulgrud; I saw one of them in
a dish at the king’s table, which passed for a rarity, but I did not observe he was fond of
it; for I think, indeed, the bigness disgusted him, although I have seen one somewhat larger
in Greenland.

The country is well inhabited, for it contains fifty-one cities, near a hundred walled towns,
and a great number of villages.  To satisfy my curious reader, it may be sufficient to describe
Lorbrulgrud.  This city stands upon almost two equal parts, on each side the river that passes
through.  It contains above eighty thousand houses, and about six hundred thousand inhabitants.
It is in length three glomglungs (which make about fifty-four English miles,) and two and a
half in breadth; as I measured it myself in the royal map made by the king’s order, which was
laid on the ground on purpose for me, and extended a hundred feet: I paced the diameter and
circumference several times barefoot, and, computing by the scale, measured it pretty exactly.

The king’s palace is no regular edifice, but a heap of buildings, about seven miles round:
the chief rooms are generally two hundred and forty feet high, and broad and long in proportion.
A coach was allowed to Glumdalclitch and me, wherein her governess frequently took her out
to see the town, or go among the shops; and I was always of the party, carried in my box; although
the girl, at my own desire, would often take me out, and hold me in her hand, that I might
more conveniently view the houses and the people, as we passed along the streets.  I reckoned
our coach to be about a square of Westminster-hall, but not altogether so high: however, I
cannot be very exact.  One day the governess ordered our coachman to stop at several shops,
where the beggars, watching their opportunity, crowded to the sides of the coach, and gave
me the most horrible spectacle that ever a European eye beheld.  There was a woman with a cancer
in her breast, swelled to a monstrous size, full of holes, in two or three of which I could
have easily crept, and covered my whole body.  There was a fellow with a wen in his neck, larger
than five wool-packs; and another, with a couple of wooden legs, each about twenty feet high.
But the most hateful sight of all, was the lice crawling on their clothes.  I could see distinctly
the limbs of these vermin with my naked eye, much better than those of a European louse through
a microscope, and their snouts with which they rooted like swine.  They were the first I had
ever beheld, and I should have been curious enough to dissect one of them, if I had had proper
instruments, which I unluckily left behind me in the ship, although, indeed, the sight was
so nauseous, that it perfectly turned my stomach.

Besides the large box in which I was usually carried, the queen ordered a smaller one to be
made for me, of about twelve feet square, and ten high, for the convenience of travelling;
because the other was somewhat too large for Glumdalclitch’s lap, and cumbersome in the coach;
it was made by the same artist, whom I directed in the whole contrivance.  This travelling-closet
was an exact square, with a window in the middle of three of the squares, and each window was
latticed with iron wire on the outside, to prevent accidents in long journeys.  On the fourth
side, which had no window, two strong staples were fixed, through which the person that carried
me, when I had a mind to be on horseback, put a leathern belt, and buckled it about his waist.
This was always the office of some grave trusty servant, in whom I could confide, whether I
attended the king and queen in their progresses, or were disposed to see the gardens, or pay
a visit to some great lady or minister of state in the court, when Glumdalclitch happened to
be out of order; for I soon began to be known and esteemed among the greatest officers, I suppose
more upon account of their majesties’ favour, than any merit of my own. In journeys, when I
was weary of the coach, a servant on horseback would buckle on my box, and place it upon a
cushion before him; and there I had a full prospect of the country on three sides, from my
three windows.  I had, in this closet, a field-bed and a hammock, hung from the ceiling, two
chairs and a table, neatly screwed to the floor, to prevent being tossed about by the agitation
of the horse or the coach.  And having been long used to sea-voyages, those motions, although
sometimes very violent, did not much discompose me.

Whenever I had a mind to see the town, it was always in my travelling-closet; which Glumdalclitch
held in her lap in a kind of open sedan, after the fashion of the country, borne by four men,
and attended by two others in the queen’s livery.  The people, who had often heard of me, were
very curious to crowd about the sedan, and the girl was complaisant enough to make the bearers
stop, and to take me in her hand, that I might be more conveniently seen.

I was very desirous to see the chief temple, and particularly the tower belonging to it, which
is reckoned the highest in the kingdom. Accordingly one day my nurse carried me thither, but
I may truly say I came back disappointed; for the height is not above three thousand feet,
reckoning from the ground to the highest pinnacle top; which, allowing for the difference between
the size of those people and us in Europe, is no great matter for admiration, nor at all equal
in proportion (if I rightly remember) to Salisbury steeple.  But, not to detract from a nation,
to which, during my life, I shall acknowledge myself extremely obliged, it must be allowed,
that whatever this famous tower wants in height, is amply made up in beauty and strength: for
the walls are near a hundred feet thick, built of hewn stone, whereof each is about forty feet
square, and adorned on all sides with statues of gods and emperors, cut in marble, larger than
the life, placed in their several niches.  I measured a little finger which had fallen down
from one of these statues, and lay unperceived among some rubbish, and found it exactly four
feet and an inch in length.  Glumdalclitch wrapped it up in her handkerchief, and carried it
home in her pocket, to keep among other trinkets, of which the girl was very fond, as children
at her age usually are.

The king’s kitchen is indeed a noble building, vaulted at top, and about six hundred feet high.
The great oven is not so wide, by ten paces, as the cupola at St. Paul’s: for I measured the
latter on purpose, after my return.  But if I should describe the kitchen grate, the prodigious
pots and kettles, the joints of meat turning on the spits, with many other particulars, perhaps
I should be hardly believed; at least a severe critic would be apt to think I enlarged a little,
as travellers are often suspected to do.  To avoid which censure I fear I have run too much
into the other extreme; and that if this treatise should happen to be translated into the language
of Brobdingnag (which is the general name of that kingdom,) and transmitted thither, the king
and his people would have reason to complain that I had done them an injury, by a false and
diminutive representation.

His majesty seldom keeps above six hundred horses in his stables: they are generally from fifty-four
to sixty feet high.  But, when he goes abroad on solemn days, he is attended, for state, by
a military guard of five hundred horse, which, indeed, I thought was the most splendid sight
that could be ever beheld, till I saw part of his army in battalia, whereof I shall find another
occasion to speak.

CHAPTER V.

Several adventurers that happened to the author.  The execution of a criminal.  The author
shows his skill in navigation.

The maids of honour often invited Glumdalclitch to their apartments, and desired she would
bring me along with her, on purpose to have the pleasure of seeing and touching me.  They would
often strip me naked from top to toe, and lay me at full length in their bosoms; wherewith
I was much disgusted because, to say the truth, a very offensive smell came from their skins;
which I do not mention, or intend, to the disadvantage of those excellent ladies, for whom
I have all manner of respect; but I conceive that my sense was more acute in proportion to
my littleness, and that those illustrious persons were no more disagreeable to their lovers,
or to each other, than people of the same quality are with us in England. And, after all, I
found their natural smell was much more supportable, than when they used perfumes, under which
I immediately swooned away.  I cannot forget, that an intimate friend of mine in Lilliput,
took the freedom in a warm day, when I had used a good deal of exercise, to complain of a strong
smell about me, although I am as little faulty that way, as most of my sex: but I suppose his
faculty of smelling was as nice with regard to me, as mine was to that of this people.  Upon
this point, I cannot forbear doing justice to the queen my mistress, and Glumdalclitch my nurse,
whose persons were as sweet as those of any lady in England.

That which gave me most uneasiness among these maids of honour (when my nurse carried me to
visit then) was, to see them use me without any manner of ceremony, like a creature who had
no sort of consequence: for they would strip themselves to the skin, and put on their smocks
in my presence, while I was placed on their toilet, directly before their naked bodies, which
I am sure to me was very far from being a tempting sight, or from giving me any other emotions
than those of horror and disgust: their skins appeared so coarse and uneven, so variously coloured,
when I saw them near, with a mole here and there as broad as a trencher, and hairs hanging
from it thicker than packthreads, to say nothing farther concerning the rest of their persons.
Neither did they at all scruple, while I was by, to discharge what they had drank, to the quantity
of at least two hogsheads, in a vessel that held above three tuns.  The handsomest among these
maids of honour, a pleasant, frolicsome girl of sixteen, would sometimes set me astride upon
one of her nipples, with many other tricks, wherein the reader will excuse me for not being
over particular.  But I was so much displeased, that I entreated Glumdalclitch to contrive
some excuse for not seeing that young lady any more.

I was almost choked with the filthy stuff the monkey had crammed down my throat: but my dear
little nurse picked it out of my mouth with a small needle, and then I fell a-vomiting, which
gave me great relief.  The girl, who had been out of order, was carried by her governess to
take the air about an hour’s distance, or thirty miles from town.  They alighted out of the
coach near a small foot-path in a field, and Glumdalclitch setting down my travelling box,
I went out of it to walk.  There was a cow-dung in the path, and I must need try my activity
by attempting to leap over it.  I took a run, but unfortunately jumped short, and found myself
just in the middle up to my knees.  I waded through with some difficulty, and one of the footmen
wiped me as clean as he could with his handkerchief, for I was filthily bemired; and my nurse
confined me to my box, till we returned home; where the queen was soon informed of what had
passed, and the footmen spread it about the court: so that all the mirth for some days was
at my expense.

CHAPTER VI.

Several contrivances of the author to please the king and queen.  He shows his skill in music.
The king inquires into the state of England, which the author relates to him.  The king’s observations
thereon.

I used to attend the king’s levee once or twice a week, and had often seen him under the barber’s
hand, which indeed was at first very terrible to behold; for the razor was almost twice as
long as an ordinary scythe. His majesty, according to the custom of the country, was only shaved
twice a-week.  I once prevailed on the barber to give me some of the suds or lather, out of
which I picked forty or fifty of the strongest stumps of hair.  I then took a piece of fine
wood, and cut it like the back of a comb, making several holes in it at equal distances with
as small a needle as I could get from Glumdalclitch.  I fixed in the stumps so artificially,
scraping and sloping them with my knife toward the points, that I made a very tolerable comb;
which was a seasonable supply, my own being so much broken in the teeth, that it was almost
useless: neither did I know any artist in that country so nice and exact, as would undertake
to make me another.

And this puts me in mind of an amusement, wherein I spent many of my leisure hours.  I desired
the queen’s woman to save for me the combings of her majesty’s hair, whereof in time I got
a good quantity; and consulting with my friend the cabinet-maker, who had received general
orders to do little jobs for me, I directed him to make two chair-frames, no larger than those
I had in my box, and to bore little holes with a fine awl, round those parts where I designed
the backs and seats; through these holes I wove the strongest hairs I could pick out, just
after the manner of cane chairs in England.  When they were finished, I made a present of them
to her majesty; who kept them in her cabinet, and used to show them for curiosities, as indeed
they were the wonder of every one that beheld them.  The queen would have me sit upon one of
these chairs, but I absolutely refused to obey her, protesting I would rather die than place
a dishonourable part of my body on those precious hairs, that once adorned her majesty’s head.
Of these hairs (as I had always a mechanical genius) I likewise made a neat little purse, about
five feet long, with her majesty’s name deciphered in gold letters, which I gave to Glumdalclitch,
by the queen’s consent.  To say the truth, it was more for show than use, being not of strength
to bear the weight of the larger coins, and therefore she kept nothing in it but some little
toys that girls are fond of.

The king, who delighted in music, had frequent concerts at court, to which I was sometimes
carried, and set in my box on a table to hear them: but the noise was so great that I could
hardly distinguish the tunes.  I am confident that all the drums and trumpets of a royal army,
beating and sounding together just at your ears, could not equal it.  My practice was to have
my box removed from the place where the performers sat, as far as I could, then to shut the
doors and windows of it, and draw the window curtains; after which I found their music not
disagreeable.

I had learned in my youth to play a little upon the spinet. Glumdalclitch kept one in her chamber,
and a master attended twice a-week to teach her: I called it a spinet, because it somewhat
resembled that instrument, and was played upon in the same manner.  A fancy came into my head,
that I would entertain the king and queen with an English tune upon this instrument.  But this
appeared extremely difficult: for the spinet was near sixty feet long, each key being almost
a foot wide, so that with my arms extended I could not reach to above five keys, and to press
them down required a good smart stroke with my fist, which would be too great a labour, and
to no purpose.  The method I contrived was this: I prepared two round sticks, about the bigness
of common cudgels; they were thicker at one end than the other, and I covered the thicker ends
with pieces of a mouse’s skin, that by rapping on them I might neither damage the tops of the
keys nor interrupt the sound.  Before the spinet a bench was placed, about four feet below
the keys, and I was put upon the bench.  I ran sideling upon it, that way and this, as fast
as I could, banging the proper keys with my two sticks, and made a shift to play a jig, to
the great satisfaction of both their majesties; but it was the most violent exercise I ever
underwent; and yet I could not strike above sixteen keys, nor consequently play the bass and
treble together, as other artists do; which was a great disadvantage to my performance.

The king, who, as I before observed, was a prince of excellent understanding, would frequently
order that I should be brought in my box, and set upon the table in his closet: he would then
command me to bring one of my chairs out of the box, and sit down within three yards distance
upon the top of the cabinet, which brought me almost to a level with his face.  In this manner
I had several conversations with him.  I one day took the freedom to tell his majesty, “that
the contempt he discovered towards Europe, and the rest of the world, did not seem answerable
to those excellent qualities of mind that he was master of; that reason did not extend itself
with the bulk of the body; on the contrary, we observed in our country, that the tallest persons
were usually the least provided with it; that among other animals, bees and ants had the reputation
of more industry, art, and sagacity, than many of the larger kinds; and that, as inconsiderable
as he took me to be, I hoped I might live to do his majesty some signal service.”  The king
heard me with attention, and began to conceive a much better opinion of me than he had ever
before. He desired “I would give him as exact an account of the government of England as I
possibly could; because, as fond as princes commonly are of their own customs (for so he conjectured
of other monarchs, by my former discourses), he should be glad to hear of any thing that might
deserve imitation.”

Imagine with thyself, courteous reader, how often I then wished for the tongue of Demosthenes
or Cicero, that might have enabled me to celebrate the praise of my own dear native country
in a style equal to its merits and felicity.

I began my discourse by informing his majesty, that our dominions consisted of two islands,
which composed three mighty kingdoms, under one sovereign, beside our plantations in America.
I dwelt long upon the fertility of our soil, and the temperature of our climate.  I then spoke
at large upon the constitution of an English parliament; partly made up of an illustrious body
called the House of Peers; persons of the noblest blood, and of the most ancient and ample
patrimonies.  I described that extraordinary care always taken of their education in arts and
arms, to qualify them for being counsellors both to the king and kingdom; to have a share in
the legislature; to be members of the highest court of judicature, whence there can be no appeal;
and to be champions always ready for the defence of their prince and country, by their valour,
conduct, and fidelity.  That these were the ornament and bulwark of the kingdom, worthy followers
of their most renowned ancestors, whose honour had been the reward of their virtue, from which
their posterity were never once known to degenerate.  To these were joined several holy persons,
as part of that assembly, under the title of bishops, whose peculiar business is to take care
of religion, and of those who instruct the people therein.  These were searched and sought
out through the whole nation, by the prince and his wisest counsellors, among such of the priesthood
as were most deservedly distinguished by the sanctity of their lives, and the depth of their
erudition; who were indeed the spiritual fathers of the clergy and the people.

That the other part of the parliament consisted of an assembly called the House of Commons,
who were all principal gentlemen, freely picked and culled out by the people themselves, for
their great abilities and love of their country, to represent the wisdom of the whole nation.
And that these two bodies made up the most august assembly in Europe; to whom, in conjunction
with the prince, the whole legislature is committed.

I then descended to the courts of justice; over which the judges, those venerable sages and
interpreters of the law, presided, for determining the disputed rights and properties of men,
as well as for the punishment of vice and protection of innocence.  I mentioned the prudent
management of our treasury; the valour and achievements of our forces, by sea and land.  I
computed the number of our people, by reckoning how many millions there might be of each religious
sect, or political party among us.  I did not omit even our sports and pastimes, or any other
particular which I thought might redound to the honour of my country.  And I finished all with
a brief historical account of affairs and events in England for about a hundred years past.

This conversation was not ended under five audiences, each of several hours; and the king heard
the whole with great attention, frequently taking notes of what I spoke, as well as memorandums
of what questions he intended to ask me.

When I had put an end to these long discources, his majesty, in a sixth audience, consulting
his notes, proposed many doubts, queries, and objections, upon every article.  He asked, “What
methods were used to cultivate the minds and bodies of our young nobility, and in what kind
of business they commonly spent the first and teachable parts of their lives?  What course
was taken to supply that assembly, when any noble family became extinct?  What qualifications
were necessary in those who are to be created new lords: whether the humour of the prince,
a sum of money to a court lady, or a design of strengthening a party opposite to the public
interest, ever happened to be the motive in those advancements?  What share of knowledge these
lords had in the laws of their country, and how they came by it, so as to enable them to decide
the properties of their fellow-subjects in the last resort?  Whether they were always so free
from avarice, partialities, or want, that a bribe, or some other sinister view, could have
no place among them?  Whether those holy lords I spoke of were always promoted to that rank
upon account of their knowledge in religious matters, and the sanctity of their lives; had
never been compliers with the times, while they were common priests; or slavish prostitute
chaplains to some nobleman, whose opinions they continued servilely to follow, after they were
admitted into that assembly?”

He then desired to know, “What arts were practised in electing those whom I called commoners:
whether a stranger, with a strong purse, might not influence the vulgar voters to choose him
before their own landlord, or the most considerable gentleman in the neighbourhood?  How it
came to pass, that people were so violently bent upon getting into this assembly, which I allowed
to be a great trouble and expense, often to the ruin of their families, without any salary
or pension? because this appeared such an exalted strain of virtue and public spirit, that
his majesty seemed to doubt it might possibly not be always sincere.”  And he desired to know,
“Whether such zealous gentlemen could have any views of refunding themselves for the charges
and trouble they were at by sacrificing the public good to the designs of a weak and vicious
prince, in conjunction with a corrupted ministry?”  He multiplied his questions, and sifted
me thoroughly upon every part of this head, proposing numberless inquiries and objections,
which I think it not prudent or convenient to repeat.

Upon what I said in relation to our courts of justice, his majesty desired to be satisfied
in several points: and this I was the better able to do, having been formerly almost ruined
by a long suit in chancery, which was decreed for me with costs.  He asked, “What time was
usually spent in determining between right and wrong, and what degree of expense? Whether advocates
and orators had liberty to plead in causes manifestly known to be unjust, vexatious, or oppressive?
Whether party, in religion or politics, were observed to be of any weight in the scale of justice?
Whether those pleading orators were persons educated in the general knowledge of equity, or
only in provincial, national, and other local customs?  Whether they or their judges had any
part in penning those laws, which they assumed the liberty of interpreting, and glossing upon
at their pleasure?  Whether they had ever, at different times, pleaded for and against the
same cause, and cited precedents to prove contrary opinions?  Whether they were a rich or a
poor corporation?  Whether they received any pecuniary reward for pleading, or delivering their
opinions? And particularly, whether they were ever admitted as members in the lower senate?”

He fell next upon the management of our treasury; and said, “he thought my memory had failed
me, because I computed our taxes at about five or six millions a-year, and when I came to mention
the issues, he found they sometimes amounted to more than double; for the notes he had taken
were very particular in this point, because he hoped, as he told me, that the knowledge of
our conduct might be useful to him, and he could not be deceived in his calculations.  But,
if what I told him were true, he was still at a loss how a kingdom could run out of its estate,
like a private person.”  He asked me, “who were our creditors; and where we found money to
pay them?”  He wondered to hear me talk of such chargeable and expensive wars; “that certainly
we must be a quarrelsome people, or live among very bad neighbours, and that our generals must
needs be richer than our kings.”  He asked, what business we had out of our own islands, unless
upon the score of trade, or treaty, or to defend the coasts with our fleet?”  Above all, he
was amazed to hear me talk of a mercenary standing army, in the midst of peace, and among a
free people.  He said, “if we were governed by our own consent, in the persons of our representatives,
he could not imagine of whom we were afraid, or against whom we were to fight; and would hear
my opinion, whether a private man’s house might not be better defended by himself, his children,
and family, than by half-a-dozen rascals, picked up at a venture in the streets for small wages,
who might get a hundred times more by cutting their throats?”

He laughed at my “odd kind of arithmetic,” as he was pleased to call it, “in reckoning the
numbers of our people, by a computation drawn from the several sects among us, in religion
and politics.”  He said, “he knew no reason why those, who entertain opinions prejudicial to
the public, should be obliged to change, or should not be obliged to conceal them. And as it
was tyranny in any government to require the first, so it was weakness not to enforce the second:
for a man may be allowed to keep poisons in his closet, but not to vend them about for cordials.”

He observed, “that among the diversions of our nobility and gentry, I had mentioned gaming:
he desired to know at what age this entertainment was usually taken up, and when it was laid
down; how much of their time it employed; whether it ever went so high as to affect their fortunes;
whether mean, vicious people, by their dexterity in that art, might not arrive at great riches,
and sometimes keep our very nobles in dependence, as well as habituate them to vile companions,
wholly take them from the improvement of their minds, and force them, by the losses they received,
to learn and practise that infamous dexterity upon others?”

He was perfectly astonished with the historical account gave him of our affairs during the
last century; protesting “it was only a heap of conspiracies, rebellions, murders, massacres,
revolutions, banishments, the very worst effects that avarice, faction, hypocrisy, perfidiousness,
cruelty, rage, madness, hatred, envy, lust, malice, and ambition, could produce.”

His majesty, in another audience, was at the pains to recapitulate the sum of all I had spoken;
compared the questions he made with the answers I had given; then taking me into his hands,
and stroking me gently, delivered himself in these words, which I shall never forget, nor the
manner he spoke them in: “My little friend Grildrig, you have made a most admirable panegyric
upon your country; you have clearly proved, that ignorance, idleness, and vice, are the proper
ingredients for qualifying a legislator; that laws are best explained, interpreted, and applied,
by those whose interest and abilities lie in perverting, confounding, and eluding them.  I
observe among you some lines of an institution, which, in its original, might have been tolerable,
but these half erased, and the rest wholly blurred and blotted by corruptions.  It does not
appear, from all you have said, how any one perfection is required toward the procurement of
any one station among you; much less, that men are ennobled on account of their virtue; that
priests are advanced for their piety or learning; soldiers, for their conduct or valour; judges,
for their integrity; senators, for the love of their country; or counsellors for their wisdom.
As for yourself,” continued the king, “who have spent the greatest part of your life in travelling,
I am well disposed to hope you may hitherto have escaped many vices of your country.  But by
what I have gathered from your own relation, and the answers I have with much pains wrung and
extorted from you, I cannot but conclude the bulk of your natives to be the most pernicious
race of little odious vermin that nature ever suffered to crawl upon the surface of the earth.”

CHAPTER VII.

The author’s love of his country.  He makes a proposal of much advantage to the king, which
is rejected.  The king’s great ignorance in politics. The learning of that country very imperfect
and confined.  The laws, and military affairs, and parties in the state.

Nothing but an extreme love of truth could have hindered me from concealing this part of my
story.  It was in vain to discover my resentments, which were always turned into ridicule;
and I was forced to rest with patience, while my noble and beloved country was so injuriously
treated.  I am as heartily sorry as any of my readers can possibly be, that such an occasion
was given: but this prince happened to be so curious and inquisitive upon every particular,
that it could not consist either with gratitude or good manners, to refuse giving him what
satisfaction I was able.  Yet thus much I may be allowed to say in my own vindication, that
I artfully eluded many of his questions, and gave to every point a more favourable turn, by
many degrees, than the strictness of truth would allow.  For I have always borne that laudable
partiality to my own country, which Dionysius Halicarnassensis, with so much justice, recommends
to an historian: I would hide the frailties and deformities of my political mother, and place
her virtues and beauties in the most advantageous light.  This was my sincere endeavour in
those many discourses I had with that monarch, although it unfortunately failed of success.

But great allowances should be given to a king, who lives wholly secluded from the rest of
the world, and must therefore be altogether unacquainted with the manners and customs that
most prevail in other nations: the want of which knowledge will ever produce many prejudices,
and a certain narrowness of thinking, from which we, and the politer countries of Europe, are
wholly exempted.  And it would be hard indeed, if so remote a prince’s notions of virtue and
vice were to be offered as a standard for all mankind.

To confirm what I have now said, and further to show the miserable effects of a confined education,
I shall here insert a passage, which will hardly obtain belief.  In hopes to ingratiate myself
further into his majesty’s favour, I told him of “an invention, discovered between three and
four hundred years ago, to make a certain powder, into a heap of which, the smallest spark
of fire falling, would kindle the whole in a moment, although it were as big as a mountain,
and make it all fly up in the air together, with a noise and agitation greater than thunder.
That a proper quantity of this powder rammed into a hollow tube of brass or iron, according
to its bigness, would drive a ball of iron or lead, with such violence and speed, as nothing
was able to sustain its force.  That the largest balls thus discharged, would not only destroy
whole ranks of an army at once, but batter the strongest walls to the ground, sink down ships,
with a thousand men in each, to the bottom of the sea, and when linked together by a chain,
would cut through masts and rigging, divide hundreds of bodies in the middle, and lay all waste
before them.  That we often put this powder into large hollow balls of iron, and discharged
them by an engine into some city we were besieging, which would rip up the pavements, tear
the houses to pieces, burst and throw splinters on every side, dashing out the brains of all
who came near.  That I knew the ingredients very well, which were cheap and common; I understood
the manner of compounding them, and could direct his workmen how to make those tubes, of a
size proportionable to all other things in his majesty’s kingdom, and the largest need not
be above a hundred feet long; twenty or thirty of which tubes, charged with the proper quantity
of powder and balls, would batter down the walls of the strongest town in his dominions in
a few hours, or destroy the whole metropolis, if ever it should pretend to dispute his absolute
commands.”  This I humbly offered to his majesty, as a small tribute of acknowledgment, in
turn for so many marks that I had received, of his royal favour and protection.

The king was struck with horror at the description I had given of those terrible engines, and
the proposal I had made.  “He was amazed, how so impotent and grovelling an insect as I” (these
were his expressions) “could entertain such inhuman ideas, and in so familiar a manner, as
to appear wholly unmoved at all the scenes of blood and desolation which I had painted as the
common effects of those destructive machines; whereof,” he said, “some evil genius, enemy to
mankind, must have been the first contriver.  As for himself, he protested, that although few
things delighted him so much as new discoveries in art or in nature, yet he would rather lose
half his kingdom, than be privy to such a secret; which he commanded me, as I valued any life,
never to mention any more.”

A strange effect of narrow principles and views! that a prince possessed of every quality which
procures veneration, love, and esteem; of strong parts, great wisdom, and profound learning,
endowed with admirable talents, and almost adored by his subjects, should, from a nice, unnecessary
scruple, whereof in Europe we can have no conception, let slip an opportunity put into his
hands that would have made him absolute master of the lives, the liberties, and the fortunes
of his people! Neither do I say this, with the least intention to detract from the many virtues
of that excellent king, whose character, I am sensible, will, on this account, be very much
lessened in the opinion of an English reader: but I take this defect among them to have risen
from their ignorance, by not having hitherto reduced politics into a science, as the more acute
wits of Europe have done.  For, I remember very well, in a discourse one day with the king,
when I happened to say, “there were several thousand books among us written upon the art of
government,” it gave him (directly contrary to my intention) a very mean opinion of our understandings.
He professed both to abominate and despise all mystery, refinement, and intrigue, either in
a prince or a minister.  He could not tell what I meant by secrets of state, where an enemy,
or some rival nation, were not in the case.  He confined the knowledge of governing within
very narrow bounds, to common sense and reason, to justice and lenity, to the speedy determination
of civil and criminal causes; with some other obvious topics, which are not worth considering.
But the last of these is wholly applied to what may be useful in life, to the improvement of
agriculture, and all mechanical arts; so that among us, it would be little esteemed.  And as
to ideas, entities, abstractions, and transcendentals, I could never drive the least conception
into their heads.

No law in that country must exceed in words the number of letters in their alphabet, which
consists only of two and twenty.  But indeed few of them extend even to that length.  They
are expressed in the most plain and simple terms, wherein those people are not mercurial enough
to discover above one interpretation: and to write a comment upon any law, is a capital crime.
As to the decision of civil causes, or proceedings against criminals, their precedents are
so few, that they have little reason to boast of any extraordinary skill in either.

They have had the art of printing, as well as the Chinese, time out of mind: but their libraries
are not very large; for that of the king, which is reckoned the largest, does not amount to
above a thousand volumes, placed in a gallery of twelve hundred feet long, whence I had liberty
to borrow what books I pleased.  The queen’s joiner had contrived in one of Glumdalclitch’s
rooms, a kind of wooden machine five-and-twenty feet high, formed like a standing ladder; the
steps were each fifty feet long. It was indeed a moveable pair of stairs, the lowest end placed
at ten feet distance from the wall of the chamber.  The book I had a mind to read, was put
up leaning against the wall: I first mounted to the upper step of the ladder, and turning my
face towards the book, began at the top of the page, and so walking to the right and left about
eight or ten paces, according to the length of the lines, till I had gotten a little below
the level of mine eyes, and then descending gradually till I came to the bottom: after which
I mounted again, and began the other page in the same manner, and so turned over the leaf,
which I could easily do with both my hands, for it was as thick and stiff as a pasteboard,
and in the largest folios not above eighteen or twenty feet long.

Their style is clear, masculine, and smooth, but not florid; for they avoid nothing more than
multiplying unnecessary words, or using various expressions.  I have perused many of their
books, especially those in history and morality.  Among the rest, I was much diverted with
a little old treatise, which always lay in Glumdalclitch’s bed chamber, and belonged to her
governess, a grave elderly gentlewoman, who dealt in writings of morality and devotion.  The
book treats of the weakness of human kind, and is in little esteem, except among the women
and the vulgar.  However, I was curious to see what an author of that country could say upon
such a subject.  This writer went through all the usual topics of European moralists, showing
“how diminutive, contemptible, and helpless an animal was man in his own nature; how unable
to defend himself from inclemencies of the air, or the fury of wild beasts: how much he was
excelled by one creature in strength, by another in speed, by a third in foresight, by a fourth
in industry.”  He added, “that nature was degenerated in these latter declining ages of the
world, and could now produce only small abortive births, in comparison of those in ancient
times.”  He said “it was very reasonable to think, not only that the species of men were originally
much larger, but also that there must have been giants in former ages; which, as it is asserted
by history and tradition, so it has been confirmed by huge bones and skulls, casually dug up
in several parts of the kingdom, far exceeding the common dwindled race of men in our days.”
He argued, “that the very laws of nature absolutely required we should have been made, in the
beginning of a size more large and robust; not so liable to destruction from every little accident,
of a tile falling from a house, or a stone cast from the hand of a boy, or being drowned in
a little brook.”  From this way of reasoning, the author drew several moral applications, useful
in the conduct of life, but needless here to repeat.  For my own part, I could not avoid reflecting
how universally this talent was spread, of drawing lectures in morality, or indeed rather matter
of discontent and repining, from the quarrels we raise with nature.  And I believe, upon a
strict inquiry, those quarrels might be shown as ill-grounded among us as they are among that
people.

As to their military affairs, they boast that the king’s army consists of a hundred and seventy-six
thousand foot, and thirty-two thousand horse: if that may be called an army, which is made
up of tradesmen in the several cities, and farmers in the country, whose commanders are only
the nobility and gentry, without pay or reward.  They are indeed perfect enough in their exercises,
and under very good discipline, wherein I saw no great merit; for how should it be otherwise,
where every farmer is under the command of his own landlord, and every citizen under that of
the principal men in his own city, chosen after the manner of Venice, by ballot?

I have often seen the militia of Lorbrulgrud drawn out to exercise, in a great field near the
city of twenty miles square.  They were in all not above twenty-five thousand foot, and six
thousand horse; but it was impossible for me to compute their number, considering the space
of ground they took up.  A cavalier, mounted on a large steed, might be about ninety feet high.
I have seen this whole body of horse, upon a word of command, draw their swords at once, and
brandish them in the air. Imagination can figure nothing so grand, so surprising, and so astonishing!
it looked as if ten thousand flashes of lightning were darting at the same time from every
quarter of the sky.

I was curious to know how this prince, to whose dominions there is no access from any other
country, came to think of armies, or to teach his people the practice of military discipline.
But I was soon informed, both by conversation and reading their histories; for, in the course
of many ages, they have been troubled with the same disease to which the whole race of mankind
is subject; the nobility often contending for power, the people for liberty, and the king for
absolute dominion.  All which, however happily tempered by the laws of that kingdom, have been
sometimes violated by each of the three parties, and have more than once occasioned civil wars;
the last whereof was happily put an end to by this prince’s grand-father, in a general composition;
and the militia, then settled with common consent, has been ever since kept in the strictest duty.

CHAPTER VIII.

The king and queen make a progress to the frontiers.  The author attends them.  The manner
in which he leaves the country very particularly related.  He returns to England.  He was strongly
bent to get me a woman of my own size, by whom I might propagate the breed: but I think I should
rather have died than undergone the disgrace of leaving a posterity to be kept in cages, like
tame canary-birds, and perhaps, in time, sold about the kingdom, to persons of quality, for
curiosities.  The boy took me out in my box, about half an hours walk from the palace, towards
the rocks on the sea-shore.  In the mean time, I here conclude the second part of my unfortunate
voyages.

PART III.  A VOYAGE TO LAPUTA, BALNIBARBI, LUGGNAGG, GLUBBDUBDRIB, AND JAPAN.

CHAPTER I.

The author sets out on his third voyage.  Is taken by pirates.  The malice of a Dutchman. 
His arrival at an island.  He is received into Laputa.

I had not been at home above ten days, when Captain William Robinson, a Cornish man, commander
of the Hopewell, a stout ship of three hundred tons, came to my house.  I had formerly been
surgeon of another ship where he was master, and a fourth part owner, in a voyage to the Levant.
He had always treated me more like a brother, than an inferior officer; and, hearing of my
arrival, made me a visit, as I apprehended only out of friendship, for nothing passed more
than what is usual after long absences.  But repeating his visits often, expressing his joy
to find I me in good health, asking, “whether I were now settled for life?” adding, “that he
intended a voyage to the East Indies in two months,” at last he plainly invited me, though
with some apologies, to be surgeon of the ship; “that I should have another surgeon under me,
beside our two mates; that my salary should be double to the usual pay; and that having experienced
my knowledge in sea-affairs to be at least equal to his, he would enter into any engagement
to follow my advice, as much as if I had shared in the command.”

He said so many other obliging things, and I knew him to be so honest a man, that I could not
reject this proposal; the thirst I had of seeing the world, notwithstanding my past misfortunes,
continuing as violent as ever.  The only difficulty that remained, was to persuade my wife,
whose consent however I at last obtained, by the prospect of advantage she proposed to her
children.

We set out the 5th day of August, 1706, and arrived at Fort St. George the 11th of April, 1707.
We staid there three weeks to refresh our crew, many of whom were sick.  From thence we went
to Tonquin, where the captain resolved to continue some time, because many of the goods he
intended to buy were not ready, nor could he expect to be dispatched in several months.  Therefore,
in hopes to defray some of the charges he must be at, he bought a sloop, loaded it with several
sorts of goods, wherewith the Tonquinese usually trade to the neighbouring islands, and putting
fourteen men on board, whereof three were of the country, he appointed me master of the sloop,
and gave me power to traffic, while he transacted his affairs at Tonquin.

We had not sailed above three days, when a great storm arising, we were driven five days to
the north-north-east, and then to the east: after which we had fair weather, but still with
a pretty strong gale from the west.  Upon the tenth day we were chased by two pirates, who
soon overtook us; for my sloop was so deep laden, that she sailed very slow, neither were we
in a condition to defend ourselves.

We were boarded about the same time by both the pirates, who entered furiously at the head
of their men; but finding us all prostrate upon our faces (for so I gave order), they pinioned
us with strong ropes, and setting guard upon us, went to search the sloop.

I observed among them a Dutchman, who seemed to be of some authority, though he was not commander
of either ship.  He knew us by our countenances to be Englishmen, and jabbering to us in his
own language, swore we should be tied back to back and thrown into the sea.  I spoken Dutch
tolerably well; I told him who we were, and begged him, in consideration of our being Christians
and Protestants, of neighbouring countries in strict alliance, that he would move the captains
to take some pity on us.  This inflamed his rage; he repeated his threatenings, and turning
to his companions, spoke with great vehemence in the Japanese language, as I suppose, often
using the word Christianos.

The largest of the two pirate ships was commanded by a Japanese captain, who spoke a little
Dutch, but very imperfectly.  He came up to me, and after several questions, which I answered
in great humility, he said, “we should not die.”  I made the captain a very low bow, and then,
turning to the Dutchman, said, “I was sorry to find more mercy in a heathen, than in a brother
christian.”  But I had soon reason to repent those foolish words: for that malicious reprobate,
having often endeavoured in vain to persuade both the captains that I might be thrown into
the sea (which they would not yield to, after the promise made me that I should not die), however,
prevailed so far, as to have a punishment inflicted on me, worse, in all human appearance,
than death itself.  My men were sent by an equal division into both the pirate ships, and my
sloop new manned. As to myself, it was determined that I should be set adrift in a small canoe,
with paddles and a sail, and four days’ provisions; which last, the Japanese captain was so
kind to double out of his own stores, and would permit no man to search me.  I got down into
the canoe, while the Dutchman, standing upon the deck, loaded me with all the curses and injurious
terms his language could afford.

About an hour before we saw the pirates I had taken an observation, and found we were in the
latitude of 46 N. and longitude of 183.  When I was at some distance from the pirates, I discovered,
by my pocket-glass, several islands to the south-east.  I set up my sail, the wind being fair,
with a design to reach the nearest of those islands, which I made a shift to do, in about three
hours.  It was all rocky: however I got many birds’ eggs; and, striking fire, I kindled some
heath and dry sea-weed, by which I roasted my eggs.  I ate no other supper, being resolved
to spare my provisions as much as I could.  I passed the night under the shelter of a rock,
strewing some heath under me, and slept pretty well.

The next day I sailed to another island, and thence to a third and fourth, sometimes using
my sail, and sometimes my paddles.  But, not to trouble the reader with a particular account
of my distresses, let it suffice, that on the fifth day I arrived at the last island in my
sight, which lay south-south-east to the former.

This island was at a greater distance than I expected, and I did not reach it in less than
five hours.  I encompassed it almost round, before I could find a convenient place to land
in; which was a small creek, about three times the wideness of my canoe.  I found the island
to be all rocky, only a little intermingled with tufts of grass, and sweet-smelling herbs.
I took out my small provisions and after having refreshed myself, I secured the remainder in
a cave, whereof there were great numbers; I gathered plenty of eggs upon the rocks, and got
a quantity of dry sea-weed, and parched grass, which I designed to kindle the next day, and
roast my eggs as well as I could, for I had about me my flint, steel, match, and burning-glass.
I lay all night in the cave where I had lodged my provisions.  My bed was the same dry grass
and sea-weed which I intended for fuel.  I slept very little, for the disquiets of my mind
prevailed over my weariness, and kept me awake.  I considered how impossible it was to preserve
my life in so desolate a place, and how miserable my end must be: yet found myself so listless
and desponding, that I had not the heart to rise; and before I could get spirits enough to
creep out of my cave, the day was far advanced.  I walked awhile among the rocks: the sky was
perfectly clear, and the sun so hot, that I was forced to turn my face from it: when all on
a sudden it became obscure, as I thought, in a manner very different from what happens by the
interposition of a cloud.  I turned back, and perceived a vast opaque body between me and the
sun moving forwards towards the island: it seemed to be about two miles high, and hid the sun
six or seven minutes; but I did not observe the air to be much colder, or the sky more darkened,
than if I had stood under the shade of a mountain.  As it approached nearer over the place
where I was, it appeared to be a firm substance, the bottom flat, smooth, and shining very
bright, from the reflection of the sea below.  I stood upon a height about two hundred yards
from the shore, and saw this vast body descending almost to a parallel with me, at less than
an English mile distance.  I took out my pocket perspective, and could plainly discover numbers
of people moving up and down the sides of it, which appeared to be sloping; but what those
people where doing I was not able to distinguish.

The natural love of life gave me some inward motion of joy, and I was ready to entertain a
hope that this adventure might, some way or other, help to deliver me from the desolate place
and condition I was in.  But at the same time the reader can hardly conceive my astonishment,
to behold an island in the air, inhabited by men, who were able (as it should seem) to raise
or sink, or put it into progressive motion, as they pleased.  But not being at that time in
a disposition to philosophise upon this phenomenon, I rather chose to observe what course the
island would take, because it seemed for awhile to stand still.  Yet soon after, it advanced
nearer, and I could see the sides of it encompassed with several gradations of galleries, and
stairs, at certain intervals, to descend from one to the other.  In the lowest gallery, I beheld
some people fishing with long angling rods, and others looking on.  I waved my cap (for my
hat was long since worn out) and my handkerchief toward the island; and upon its nearer approach,
I called and shouted with the utmost strength of my voice; and then looking circumspectly,
I beheld a crowd gather to that side which was most in my view.  I found by their pointing
towards me and to each other, that they plainly discovered me, although they made no return
to my shouting.  But I could see four or five men running in great haste, up the stairs, to
the top of the island, who then disappeared.  I happened rightly to conjecture, that these
were sent for orders to some person in authority upon this occasion.

The number of people increased, and, in less than half all hour, the island was moved and raised
in such a manner, that the lowest gallery appeared in a parallel of less then a hundred yards
distance from the height where I stood.  I then put myself in the most supplicating posture,
and spoke in the humblest accent, but received no answer.  Those who stood nearest over against
me, seemed to be persons of distinction, as I supposed by their habit.  They conferred earnestly
with each other, looking often upon me.  At length one of them called out in a clear, polite,
smooth dialect, not unlike in sound to the Italian: and therefore I returned an answer in that
language, hoping at least that the cadence might be more agreeable to his ears.  Although neither
of us understood the other, yet my meaning was easily known, for the people saw the distress
I was in.

They made signs for me to come down from the rock, and go towards the shore, which I accordingly
did; and the flying island being raised to a convenient height, the verge directly over me,
a chain was let down from the lowest gallery, with a seat fastened to the bottom, to which
I fixed myself, and was drawn up by pulleys.

CHAPTER II.

The humours and dispositions of the Laputians described.  An account of their learning.  Of
the king and his court.  The author’s reception there.  The inhabitants subject to fear and
disquietudes.  An account of the women.

At my alighting, I was surrounded with a crowd of people, but those who stood nearest seemed
to be of better quality.  They beheld me with all the marks and circumstances of wonder; neither
indeed was I much in their debt, having never till then seen a race of mortals so singular
in their shapes, habits, and countenances.  Their heads were all reclined, either to the right,
or the left; one of their eyes turned inward, and the other directly up to the zenith.  Their
outward garments were adorned with the figures of suns, moons, and stars; interwoven with those
of fiddles, flutes, harps, trumpets, guitars, harpsichords, and many other instruments of music,
unknown to us in Europe.  I observed, here and there, many in the habit of servants, with a
blown bladder, fastened like a flail to the end of a stick, which they carried in their hands.
In each bladder was a small quantity of dried peas, or little pebbles, as I was afterwards
informed.  With these bladders, they now and then flapped the mouths and ears of those who
stood near them, of which practice I could not then conceive the meaning.  It seems the minds
of these people are so taken up with intense speculations, that they neither can speak, nor
attend to the discourses of others, without being roused by some external taction upon the
organs of speech and hearing; for which reason, those persons who are able to afford it always
keep a flapper (the original is climenole) in their family, as one of their domestics; nor
ever walk abroad, or make visits, without him.  And the business of this officer is, when two,
three, or more persons are in company, gently to strike with his bladder the mouth of him who
is to speak, and the right ear of him or them to whom the speaker addresses himself.  This
flapper is likewise employed diligently to attend his master in his walks, and upon occasion
to give him a soft flap on his eyes; because he is always so wrapped up in cogitation, that
he is in manifest danger of falling down every precipice, and bouncing his head against every
post; and in the streets, of justling others, or being justled himself into the kennel.

It was necessary to give the reader this information, without which he would be at the same
loss with me to understand the proceedings of these people, as they conducted me up the stairs
to the top of the island, and from thence to the royal palace.  While we were ascending, they
forgot several times what they were about, and left me to myself, till their memories were
again roused by their flappers; for they appeared altogether unmoved by the sight of my foreign
habit and countenance, and by the shouts of the vulgar, whose thoughts and minds were more
disengaged.

At last we entered the palace, and proceeded into the chamber of presence, where I saw the
king seated on his throne, attended on each side by persons of prime quality.  Before the throne,
was a large table filled with globes and spheres, and mathematical instruments of all kinds.
His majesty took not the least notice of us, although our entrance was not without sufficient
noise, by the concourse of all persons belonging to the court.  But he was then deep in a problem;
and we attended at least an hour, before he could solve it.  There stood by him, on each side,
a young page with flaps in their hands, and when they saw he was at leisure, one of them gently
struck his mouth, and the other his right ear; at which he startled like one awaked on the
sudden, and looking towards me and the company I was in, recollected the occasion of our coming,
whereof he had been informed before.  He spoke some words, whereupon immediately a young man
with a flap came up to my side, and flapped me gently on the right ear; but I made signs, as
well as I could, that I had no occasion for such an instrument; which, as I afterwards found,
gave his majesty, and the whole court, a very mean opinion of my understanding.  The king,
as far as I could conjecture, asked me several questions, and I addressed myself to him in
all the languages I had. When it was found I could neither understand nor be understood, I
was conducted by his order to an apartment in his palace (this prince being distinguished above
all his predecessors for his hospitality to strangers), where two servants were appointed to
attend me.  My dinner was brought, and four persons of quality, whom I remembered to have seen
very near the king’s person, did me the honour to dine with me.  We had two courses, of three
dishes each.  In the first course, there was a shoulder of mutton cut into an equilateral triangle,
a piece of beef into a rhomboides, and a pudding into a cycloid.  The second course was two
ducks trussed up in the form of fiddles; sausages and puddings resembling flutes and hautboys,
and a breast of veal in the shape of a harp.  The servants cut our bread into cones, cylinders,
parallelograms, and several other mathematical figures.

While we were at dinner, I made bold to ask the names of several things in their language,
and those noble persons, by the assistance of their flappers, delighted to give me answers,
hoping to raise my admiration of their great abilities if I could be brought to converse with
them.  I was soon able to call for bread and drink, or whatever else I wanted.

After dinner my company withdrew, and a person was sent to me by the king’s order, attended
by a flapper.  He brought with him pen, ink, and paper, and three or four books, giving me
to understand by signs, that he was sent to teach me the language.  We sat together four hours,
in which time I wrote down a great number of words in columns, with the translations over against
them; I likewise made a shift to learn several short sentences; for my tutor would order one
of my servants to fetch something, to turn about, to make a bow, to sit, or to stand, or walk,
and the like.  Then I took down the sentence in writing.  He showed me also, in one of his
books, the figures of the sun, moon, and stars, the zodiac, the tropics, and polar circles,
together with the denominations of many plains and solids.  He gave me the names and descriptions
of all the musical instruments, and the general terms of art in playing on each of them.  After
he had left me, I placed all my words, with their interpretations, in alphabetical order. 
And thus, in a few days, by the help of a very faithful memory, I got some insight into their
language. The word, which I interpret the flying or floating island, is in the original Laputa,
whereof I could never learn the true etymology. Lap, in the old obsolete language, signifies
high; and untuh, a governor; from which they say, by corruption, was derived Laputa, from Lapuntuh.
But I do not approve of this derivation, which seems to be a little strained.  I ventured to
offer to the learned among them a conjecture of my own, that Laputa was quasi lap outed; lap,
signifying properly, the dancing of the sunbeams in the sea, and outed, a wing; which, however,
I shall not obtrude, but submit to the judicious reader.

Those to whom the king had entrusted me, observing how ill I was clad, ordered a tailor to
come next morning, and take measure for a suit of clothes.  This operator did his office after
a different manner from those of his trade in Europe.  He first took my altitude by a quadrant,
and then, with a rule and compasses, described the dimensions and outlines of my whole body,
all which he entered upon paper; and in six days brought my clothes very ill made, and quite
out of shape, by happening to mistake a figure in the calculation.  But my comfort was, that
I observed such accidents very frequent, and little regarded.

During my confinement for want of clothes, and by an indisposition that held me some days longer,
I much enlarged my dictionary; and when I went next to court, was able to understand many things
the king spoke, and to return him some kind of answers.  His majesty had given orders, that
the island should move north-east and by east, to the vertical point over Lagado, the metropolis
of the whole kingdom below, upon the firm earth. It was about ninety leagues distant, and our
voyage lasted four days and a half.  I was not in the least sensible of the progressive motion
made in the air by the island.  On the second morning, about eleven o’clock, the king himself
in person, attended by his nobility, courtiers, and officers, having prepared all their musical
instruments, played on them for three hours without intermission, so that I was quite stunned
with the noise; neither could I possibly guess the meaning, till my tutor informed me.  He
said that, the people of their island had their ears adapted to hear “the music of the spheres,
which always played at certain periods, and the court was now prepared to bear their part,
in whatever instrument they most excelled.”

In our journey towards Lagado, the capital city, his majesty ordered that the island should
stop over certain towns and villages, from whence he might receive the petitions of his subjects.
And to this purpose, several packthreads were let down, with small weights at the bottom. 
On these packthreads the people strung their petitions, which mounted up directly, like the
scraps of paper fastened by school boys at the end of the string that holds their kite.  Sometimes
we received wine and victuals from below, which were drawn up by pulleys.

The knowledge I had in mathematics, gave me great assistance in acquiring their phraseology,
which depended much upon that science, and music; and in the latter I was not unskilled.  Their
ideas are perpetually conversant in lines and figures.  If they would, for example, praise
the beauty of a woman, or any other animal, they describe it by rhombs, circles, parallelograms,
ellipses, and other geometrical terms, or by words of art drawn from music, needless here to
repeat.  I observed in the king’s kitchen all sorts of mathematical and musical instruments,
after the figures of which they cut up the joints that were served to his majesty’s table.

Their houses are very ill built, the walls bevil, without one right angle in any apartment;
and this defect arises from the contempt they bear to practical geometry, which they despise
as vulgar and mechanic; those instructions they give being too refined for the intellects of
their workmen, which occasions perpetual mistakes.  And although they are dexterous enough
upon a piece of paper, in the management of the rule, the pencil, and the divider, yet in the
common actions and behaviour of life, I have not seen a more clumsy, awkward, and unhandy people,
nor so slow and perplexed in their conceptions upon all other subjects, except those of mathematics
and music.  They are very bad reasoners, and vehemently given to opposition, unless when they
happen to be of the right opinion, which is seldom their case.  Imagination, fancy, and invention,
they are wholly strangers to, nor have any words in their language, by which those ideas can
be expressed; the whole compass of their thoughts and mind being shut up within the two forementioned
sciences.

Most of them, and especially those who deal in the astronomical part, have great faith in judicial
astrology, although they are ashamed to own it publicly.  But what I chiefly admired, and thought
altogether unaccountable, was the strong disposition I observed in them towards news and politics,
perpetually inquiring into public affairs, giving their judgments in matters of state, and
passionately disputing every inch of a party opinion.  I have indeed observed the same disposition
among most of the mathematicians I have known in Europe, although I could never discover the
least analogy between the two sciences; unless those people suppose, that because the smallest
circle has as many degrees as the largest, therefore the regulation and management of the world
require no more abilities than the handling and turning of a globe; but I rather take this
quality to spring from a very common infirmity of human nature, inclining us to be most curious
and conceited in matters where we have least concern, and for which we are least adapted by
study or nature.

These people are under continual disquietudes, never enjoying a minutes peace of mind; and
their disturbances proceed from causes which very little affect the rest of mortals.  Their
apprehensions arise from several changes they dread in the celestial bodies: for instance,
that the earth, by the continual approaches of the sun towards it, must, in course of time,
be absorbed, or swallowed up; that the face of the sun, will, by degrees, be encrusted with
its own effluvia, and give no more light to the world; that the earth very narrowly escaped
a brush from the tail of the last comet, which would have infallibly reduced it to ashes; and
that the next, which they have calculated for one-and-thirty years hence, will probably destroy
us.  For if, in its perihelion, it should approach within a certain degree of the sun (as by
their calculations they have reason to dread) it will receive a degree of heat ten thousand
times more intense than that of red hot glowing iron, and in its absence from the sun, carry
a blazing tail ten hundred thousand and fourteen miles long, through which, if the earth should
pass at the distance of one hundred thousand miles from the nucleus, or main body of the comet,
it must in its passage be set on fire, and reduced to ashes: that the sun, daily spending its
rays without any nutriment to supply them, will at last be wholly consumed and annihilated;
which must be attended with the destruction of this earth, and of all the planets that receive
their light from it.

They are so perpetually alarmed with the apprehensions of these, and the like impending dangers,
that they can neither sleep quietly in their beds, nor have any relish for the common pleasures
and amusements of life.  When they meet an acquaintance in the morning, the first question
is about the sun’s health, how he looked at his setting and rising, and what hopes they have
to avoid the stroke of the approaching comet.  This conversation they are apt to run into with
the same temper that boys discover in delighting to hear terrible stories of spirits and hobgoblins,
which they greedily listen to, and dare not go to bed for fear.

The women of the island have abundance of vivacity: they, contemn their husbands, and are exceedingly
fond of strangers, whereof there is always a considerable number from the continent below,
attending at court, either upon affairs of the several towns and corporations, or their own
particular occasions, but are much despised, because they want the same endowments.  Among
these the ladies choose their gallants: but the vexation is, that they act with too much ease
and security; for the husband is always so rapt in speculation, that the mistress and lover
may proceed to the greatest familiarities before his face, if he be but provided with paper
and implements, and without his flapper at his side.

The wives and daughters lament their confinement to the island, although I think it the most
delicious spot of ground in the world; and although they live here in the greatest plenty and
magnificence, and are allowed to do whatever they please, they long to see the world, and take
the diversions of the metropolis, which they are not allowed to do without a particular license
from the king; and this is not easy to be obtained, because the people of quality have found,
by frequent experience, how hard it is to persuade their women to return from below.  I was
told that a great court lady, who had several children,—is married to the prime minister, the
richest subject in the kingdom, a very graceful person, extremely fond of her, and lives in
the finest palace of the island,—went down to Lagado on the pretence of health, there hid herself
for several months, till the king sent a warrant to search for her; and she was found in an
obscure eating-house all in rags, having pawned her clothes to maintain an old deformed footman,
who beat her every day, and in whose company she was taken, much against her will.  And although
her husband received her with all possible kindness, and without the least reproach, she soon
after contrived to steal down again, with all her jewels, to the same gallant, and has not
been heard of since.

This may perhaps pass with the reader rather for an European or English story, than for one
of a country so remote.  But he may please to consider, that the caprices of womankind are
not limited by any climate or nation, and that they are much more uniform, than can be easily
imagined.

In about a month’s time, I had made a tolerable proficiency in their language, and was able
to answer most of the king’s questions, when I had the honour to attend him.  His majesty discovered
not the least curiosity to inquire into the laws, government, history, religion, or manners
of the countries where I had been; but confined his questions to the state of mathematics,
and received the account I gave him with great contempt and indifference, though often roused
by his flapper on each side.

CHAPTER III.

A phenomenon solved by modern philosophy and astronomy.  The Laputians’ great improvements
in the latter.  The king’s method of suppressing insurrections.

I desired leave of this prince to see the curiosities of the island, which he was graciously
pleased to grant, and ordered my tutor to attend me.  I chiefly wanted to know, to what cause,
in art or in nature, it owed its several motions, whereof I will now give a philosophical account
to the reader.

The flying or floating island is exactly circular, its diameter 7837 yards, or about four miles
and a half, and consequently contains ten thousand acres.  It is three hundred yards thick.
The bottom, or under surface, which appears to those who view it below, is one even regular
plate of adamant, shooting up to the height of about two hundred yards. Above it lie the several
minerals in their usual order, and over all is a coat of rich mould, ten or twelve feet deep.
The declivity of the upper surface, from the circumference to the centre, is the natural cause
why all the dews and rains, which fall upon the island, are conveyed in small rivulets toward
the middle, where they are emptied into four large basins, each of about half a mile in circuit,
and two hundred yards distant from the centre.  From these basins the water is continually
exhaled by the sun in the daytime, which effectually prevents their overflowing.  Besides,
as it is in the power of the monarch to raise the island above the region of clouds and vapours,
he can prevent the falling of dews and rain whenever he pleases.  For the highest clouds cannot
rise above two miles, as naturalists agree, at least they were never known to do so in that
country.

At the centre of the island there is a chasm about fifty yards in diameter, whence the astronomers
descend into a large dome, which is therefore called flandona gagnole, or the astronomer’s
cave, situated at the depth of a hundred yards beneath the upper surface of the adamant. In
this cave are twenty lamps continually burning, which, from the reflection of the adamant,
cast a strong light into every part.  The place is stored with great variety of sextants, quadrants,
telescopes, astrolabes, and other astronomical instruments.  But the greatest curiosity, upon
which the fate of the island depends, is a loadstone of a prodigious size, in shape resembling
a weaver’s shuttle.  It is in length six yards, and in the thickest part at least three yards
over.  This magnet is sustained by a very strong axle of adamant passing through its middle,
upon which it plays, and is poised so exactly that the weakest hand can turn it.  It is hooped
round with a hollow cylinder of adamant, four feet yards in diameter, placed horizontally,
and supported by eight adamantine feet, each six yards high.  In the middle of the concave
side, there is a groove twelve inches deep, in which the extremities of the axle are lodged,
and turned round as there is occasion.

The stone cannot be removed from its place by any force, because the hoop and its feet are
one continued piece with that body of adamant which constitutes the bottom of the island.

By means of this loadstone, the island is made to rise and fall, and move from one place to
another.  For, with respect to that part of the earth over which the monarch presides, the
stone is endued at one of its sides with an attractive power, and at the other with a repulsive.
Upon placing the magnet erect, with its attracting end towards the earth, the island descends;
but when the repelling extremity points downwards, the island mounts directly upwards.  When
the position of the stone is oblique, the motion of the island is so too: for in this magnet,
the forces always act in lines parallel to its direction.

By this oblique motion, the island is conveyed to different parts of the monarch’s dominions.
To explain the manner of its progress, let A B represent a line drawn across the dominions
of Balnibarbi, let the line c d represent the loadstone, of which let d be the repelling end,
and c the attracting end, the island being over C: let the stone be placed in position c d,
with its repelling end downwards; then the island will be driven upwards obliquely towards
D.  When it is arrived at D, let the stone be turned upon its axle, till its attracting end
points towards E, and then the island will be carried obliquely towards E; where, if the stone
be again turned upon its axle till it stands in the position E F, with its repelling point
downwards, the island will rise obliquely towards F, where, by directing the attracting end
towards G, the island may be carried to G, and from G to H, by turning the stone, so as to
make its repelling extremity to point directly downward.  And thus, by changing the situation
of the stone, as often as there is occasion, the island is made to rise and fall by turns in
an oblique direction, and by those alternate risings and fallings (the obliquity being not
considerable) is conveyed from one part of the dominions to the other.

But it must be observed, that this island cannot move beyond the extent of the dominions below,
nor can it rise above the height of four miles. For which the astronomers (who have written
large systems concerning the stone) assign the following reason: that the magnetic virtue does
not extend beyond the distance of four miles, and that the mineral, which acts upon the stone
in the bowels of the earth, and in the sea about six leagues distant from the shore, is not
diffused through the whole globe, but terminated with the limits of the king’s dominions; and
it was easy, from the great advantage of such a superior situation, for a prince to bring under
his obedience whatever country lay within the attraction of that magnet.

When the stone is put parallel to the plane of the horizon, the island stands still; for in
that case the extremities of it, being at equal distance from the earth, act with equal force,
the one in drawing downwards, the other in pushing upwards, and consequently no motion can ensue.

This loadstone is under the care of certain astronomers, who, from time to time, give it such
positions as the monarch directs.  They spend the greatest part of their lives in observing
the celestial bodies, which they do by the assistance of glasses, far excelling ours in goodness.
For, although their largest telescopes do not exceed three feet, they magnify much more than
those of a hundred with us, and show the stars with greater clearness.  This advantage has
enabled them to extend their discoveries much further than our astronomers in Europe; for they
have made a catalogue of ten thousand fixed stars, whereas the largest of ours do not contain
above one third part of that number.  They have likewise discovered two lesser stars, or satellites,
which revolve about Mars; whereof the innermost is distant from the centre of the primary planet
exactly three of his diameters, and the outermost, five; the former revolves in the space of
ten hours, and the latter in twenty-one and a half; so that the squares of their periodical
times are very near in the same proportion with the cubes of their distance from the centre
of Mars; which evidently shows them to be governed by the same law of gravitation that influences
the other heavenly bodies.

They have observed ninety-three different comets, and settled their periods with great exactness.
If this be true (and they affirm it with great confidence) it is much to be wished, that their
observations were made public, whereby the theory of comets, which at present is very lame
and defective, might be brought to the same perfection with other arts of astronomy.

The king would be the most absolute prince in the universe, if he could but prevail on a ministry
to join with him; but these having their estates below on the continent, and considering that
the office of a favourite has a very uncertain tenure, would never consent to the enslaving
of their country.

If any town should engage in rebellion or mutiny, fall into violent factions, or refuse to
pay the usual tribute, the king has two methods of reducing them to obedience.  The first and
the mildest course is, by keeping the island hovering over such a town, and the lands about
it, whereby he can deprive them of the benefit of the sun and the rain, and consequently afflict
the inhabitants with dearth and diseases: and if the crime deserve it, they are at the same
time pelted from above with great stones, against which they have no defence but by creeping
into cellars or caves, while the roofs of their houses are beaten to pieces.  But if they still
continue obstinate, or offer to raise insurrections, he proceeds to the last remedy, by letting
the island drop directly upon their heads, which makes a universal destruction both of houses
and men. However, this is an extremity to which the prince is seldom driven, neither indeed
is he willing to put it in execution; nor dare his ministers advise him to an action, which,
as it would render them odious to the people, so it would be a great damage to their own estates,
which all lie below; for the island is the king’s demesne.

But there is still indeed a more weighty reason, why the kings of this country have been always
averse from executing so terrible an action, unless upon the utmost necessity.  For, if the
town intended to be destroyed should have in it any tall rocks, as it generally falls out in
the larger cities, a situation probably chosen at first with a view to prevent such a catastrophe;
or if it abound in high spires, or pillars of stone, a sudden fall might endanger the bottom
or under surface of the island, which, although it consist, as I have said, of one entire adamant,
two hundred yards thick, might happen to crack by too great a shock, or burst by approaching
too near the fires from the houses below, as the backs, both of iron and stone, will often
do in our chimneys.  Of all this the people are well apprised, and understand how far to carry
their obstinacy, where their liberty or property is concerned.  And the king, when he is highest
provoked, and most determined to press a city to rubbish, orders the island to descend with
great gentleness, out of a pretence of tenderness to his people, but, indeed, for fear of breaking
the adamantine bottom; in which case, it is the opinion of all their philosophers, that the
loadstone could no longer hold it up, and the whole mass would fall to the ground.

By a fundamental law of this realm, neither the king, nor either of his two eldest sons, are
permitted to leave the island; nor the queen, till she is past child-bearing.

CHAPTER IV.

The author leaves Laputa; is conveyed to Balnibarbi; arrives at the metropolis.  A description
of the metropolis, and the country adjoining. The author hospitably received by a great lord.
His conversation with that lord.

Although I cannot say that I was ill treated in this island, yet I must confess I thought myself
too much neglected, not without some degree of contempt; for neither prince nor people appeared
to be curious in any part of knowledge, except mathematics and music, wherein I was far their
inferior, and upon that account very little regarded.

On the other side, after having seen all the curiosities of the island, I was very desirous
to leave it, being heartily weary of those people. They were indeed excellent in two sciences
for which I have great esteem, and wherein I am not unversed; but, at the same time, so abstracted
and involved in speculation, that I never met with such disagreeable companions.  I conversed
only with women, tradesmen, flappers, and court-pages, during two months of my abode there;
by which, at last, I rendered myself extremely contemptible; yet these were the only people
from whom I could ever receive a reasonable answer.

I had obtained, by hard study, a good degree of knowledge in their language: I was weary of
being confined to an island where I received so little countenance, and resolved to leave it
with the first opportunity.

There was a great lord at court, nearly related to the king, and for that reason alone used
with respect.  He was universally reckoned the most ignorant and stupid person among them.
He had performed many eminent services for the crown, had great natural and acquired parts,
adorned with integrity and honour; but so ill an ear for music, that his detractors reported,
“he had been often known to beat time in the wrong place;” neither could his tutors, without
extreme difficulty, teach him to demonstrate the most easy proposition in the mathematics.
He was pleased to show me many marks of favour, often did me the honour of a visit, desired
to be informed in the affairs of Europe, the laws and customs, the manners and learning of
the several countries where I had travelled.  He listened to me with great attention, and made
very wise observations on all I spoke.  He had two flappers attending him for state, but never
made use of them, except at court and in visits of ceremony, and would always command them
to withdraw, when we were alone together.

I entreated this illustrious person, to intercede in my behalf with his majesty, for leave
to depart; which he accordingly did, as he was pleased to tell me, with regret: for indeed
he had made me several offers very advantageous, which, however, I refused, with expressions
of the highest acknowledgment.

On the 16th of February I took leave of his majesty and the court.  The king made me a present
to the value of about two hundred pounds English, and my protector, his kinsman, as much more,
together with a letter of recommendation to a friend of his in Lagado, the metropolis.  The
island being then hovering over a mountain about two miles from it, I was let down from the
lowest gallery, in the same manner as I had been taken up.

The continent, as far as it is subject to the monarch of the flying island, passes under the
general name of Balnibarbi; and the metropolis, as I said before, is called Lagado.  I felt
some little satisfaction in finding myself on firm ground.  I walked to the city without any
concern, being clad like one of the natives, and sufficiently instructed to converse with them.
I soon found out the person’s house to whom I was recommended, presented my letter from his
friend the grandee in the island, and was received with much kindness.  This great lord, whose
name was Munodi, ordered me an apartment in his own house, where I continued during my stay,
and was entertained in a most hospitable manner.

The next morning after my arrival, he took me in his chariot to see the town, which is about
half the bigness of London; but the houses very strangely built, and most of them out of repair.
The people in the streets walked fast, looked wild, their eyes fixed, and were generally in
rags.  We passed through one of the town gates, and went about three miles into the country,
where I saw many labourers working with several sorts of tools in the ground, but was not able
to conjecture what they were about: neither did observe any expectation either of corn or grass,
although the soil appeared to be excellent.  I could not forbear admiring at these odd appearances,
both in town and country; and I made bold to desire my conductor, that he would be pleased
to explain to me, what could be meant by so many busy heads, hands, and faces, both in the
streets and the fields, because I did not discover any good effects they produced; but, on
the contrary, I never knew a soil so unhappily cultivated, houses so ill contrived and so ruinous,
or a people whose countenances and habit expressed so much misery and want.

This lord Munodi was a person of the first rank, and had been some years governor of Lagado;
but, by a cabal of ministers, was discharged for insufficiency.  However, the king treated
him with tenderness, as a well-meaning man, but of a low contemptible understanding.

When I gave that free censure of the country and its inhabitants, he made no further answer
than by telling me, “that I had not been long enough among them to form a judgment; and that
the different nations of the world had different customs;” with other common topics to the
same purpose.  But, when we returned to his palace, he asked me “how I liked the building,
what absurdities I observed, and what quarrel I had with the dress or looks of his domestics?”
This he might safely do; because every thing about him was magnificent, regular, and polite.
I answered, “that his excellency’s prudence, quality, and fortune, had exempted him from those
defects, which folly and beggary had produced in others.”  He said, “if I would go with him
to his country-house, about twenty miles distant, where his estate lay, there would be more
leisure for this kind of conversation.”  I told his excellency “that I was entirely at his
disposal;” and accordingly we set out next morning.

During our journey he made me observe the several methods used by farmers in managing their
lands, which to me were wholly unaccountable; for, except in some very few places, I could
not discover one ear of corn or blade of grass.  But, in three hours travelling, the scene
was wholly altered; we came into a most beautiful country; farmers’ houses, at small distances,
neatly built; the fields enclosed, containing vineyards, corn-grounds, and meadows.  Neither
do I remember to have seen a more delightful prospect.  His excellency observed my countenance
to clear up; he told me, with a sigh, “that there his estate began, and would continue the
same, till we should come to his house: that his countrymen ridiculed and despised him, for
managing his affairs no better, and for setting so ill an example to the kingdom; which, however,
was followed by very few, such as were old, and wilful, and weak like himself.”

We came at length to the house, which was indeed a noble structure, built according to the
best rules of ancient architecture.  The fountains, gardens, walks, avenues, and groves, were
all disposed with exact judgment and taste.  I gave due praises to every thing I saw, whereof
his excellency took not the least notice till after supper; when, there being no third companion,
he told me with a very melancholy air “that he doubted he must throw down his houses in town
and country, to rebuild them after the present mode; destroy all his plantations, and cast
others into such a form as modern usage required, and give the same directions to all his tenants,
unless he would submit to incur the censure of pride, singularity, affectation, ignorance,
caprice, and perhaps increase his majesty’s displeasure; that the admiration I appeared to
be under would cease or diminish, when he had informed me of some particulars which, probably,
I never heard of at court, the people there being too much taken up in their own speculations,
to have regard to what passed here below.”

The sum of his discourse was to this effect: “That about forty years ago, certain persons went
up to Laputa, either upon business or diversion, and, after five months continuance, came back
with a very little smattering in mathematics, but full of volatile spirits acquired in that
airy region: that these persons, upon their return, began to dislike the management of every
thing below, and fell into schemes of putting all arts, sciences, languages, and mechanics,
upon a new foot.  To this end, they procured a royal patent for erecting an academy of projectors
in Lagado; and the humour prevailed so strongly among the people, that there is not a town
of any consequence in the kingdom without such an academy. In these colleges the professors
contrive new rules and methods of agriculture and building, and new instruments, and tools
for all trades and manufactures; whereby, as they undertake, one man shall do the work of ten;
a palace may be built in a week, of materials so durable as to last for ever without repairing.
All the fruits of the earth shall come to maturity at whatever season we think fit to choose,
and increase a hundred fold more than they do at present; with innumerable other happy proposals.
The only inconvenience is, that none of these projects are yet brought to perfection; and in
the mean time, the whole country lies miserably waste, the houses in ruins, and the people
without food or clothes.  By all which, instead of being discouraged, they are fifty times
more violently bent upon prosecuting their schemes, driven equally on by hope and despair:
that as for himself, being not of an enterprising spirit, he was content to go on in the old
forms, to live in the houses his ancestors had built, and act as they did, in every part of
life, without innovation: that some few other persons of quality and gentry had done the same,
but were looked on with an eye of contempt and ill-will, as enemies to art, ignorant, and ill
common-wealth’s men, preferring their own ease and sloth before the general improvement of
their country.”

His lordship added, “That he would not, by any further particulars, prevent the pleasure I
should certainly take in viewing the grand academy, whither he was resolved I should go.” 
He only desired me to observe a ruined building, upon the side of a mountain about three miles
distant, of which he gave me this account: “That he had a very convenient mill within half
a mile of his house, turned by a current from a large river, and sufficient for his own family,
as well as a great number of his tenants; that about seven years ago, a club of those projectors
came to him with proposals to destroy this mill, and build another on the side of that mountain,
on the long ridge whereof a long canal must be cut, for a repository of water, to be conveyed
up by pipes and engines to supply the mill, because the wind and air upon a height agitated
the water, and thereby made it fitter for motion, and because the water, descending down a
declivity, would turn the mill with half the current of a river whose course is more upon a
level.”  He said, “that being then not very well with the court, and pressed by many of his
friends, he complied with the proposal; and after employing a hundred men for two years, the
work miscarried, the projectors went off, laying the blame entirely upon him, railing at him
ever since, and putting others upon the same experiment, with equal assurance of success, as
well as equal disappointment.”

In a few days we came back to town; and his excellency, considering the bad character he had
in the academy, would not go with me himself, but recommended me to a friend of his, to bear
me company thither.  My lord was pleased to represent me as a great admirer of projects, and
a person of much curiosity and easy belief; which, indeed, was not without truth; for I had
myself been a sort of projector in my younger days.

CHAPTER V.

The author permitted to see the grand academy of Lagado.  The academy largely described.  The
arts wherein the professors employ themselves.

This academy is not an entire single building, but a continuation of several houses on both
sides of a street, which growing waste, was purchased and applied to that use.

I was received very kindly by the warden, and went for many days to the academy.  Every room
has in it one or more projectors; and I believe I could not be in fewer than five hundred rooms.

I went into another chamber, but was ready to hasten back, being almost overcome with a horrible
stink.  My conductor pressed me forward, conjuring me in a whisper “to give no offence, which
would be highly resented;” and therefore I durst not so much as stop my nose.  The projector
of this cell was the most ancient student of the academy; his face and beard were of a pale
yellow; his hands and clothes daubed over with filth.  When I was presented to him, he gave
me a close embrace, a compliment I could well have excused.  His employment, from his first
coming into the academy, was an operation to reduce human excrement to its original food, by
separating the several parts, removing the tincture which it receives from the gall, making
the odour exhale, and scumming off the saliva.  He had a weekly allowance, from the society,
of a vessel filled with human ordure, about the bigness of a Bristol barrel.

There was a man born blind, who had several apprentices in his own condition: their employment
was to mix colours for painters, which their master taught them to distinguish by feeling and
smelling.  It was indeed my misfortune to find them at that time not very perfect in their
lessons, and the professor himself happened to be generally mistaken. This artist is much encouraged
and esteemed by the whole fraternity.

In another apartment I was highly pleased with a projector who had found a device of ploughing
the ground with hogs, to save the charges of ploughs, cattle, and labour.  The method is this:
in an acre of ground you bury, at six inches distance and eight deep, a quantity of acorns,
dates, chestnuts, and other mast or vegetables, whereof these animals are fondest; then you
drive six hundred or more of them into the field, where, in a few days, they will root up the
whole ground in search of their food, and make it fit for sowing, at the same time manuring
it with their dung: it is true, upon experiment, they found the charge and trouble very great,
and they had little or no crop.  However it is not doubted, that this invention may be capable
of great improvement.

I went into another room, where the walls and ceiling were all hung round with cobwebs, except
a narrow passage for the artist to go in and out.

I was complaining of a small fit of the colic, upon which my conductor led me into a room where
a great physician resided, who was famous for curing that disease, by contrary operations from
the same instrument.  He had a large pair of bellows, with a long slender muzzle of ivory:
this he conveyed eight inches up the anus, and drawing in the wind, he affirmed he could make
the guts as lank as a dried bladder.  But when the disease was more stubborn and violent, he
let in the muzzle while the bellows were full of wind, which he discharged into the body of
the patient; then withdrew the instrument to replenish it, clapping his thumb strongly against
the orifice of then fundament; and this being repeated three or four times, the adventitious
wind would rush out, bringing the noxious along with it, (like water put into a pump), and
the patient recovered. I saw him try both experiments upon a dog, but could not discern any
effect from the former.  After the latter the animal was ready to burst, and made so violent
a discharge as was very offensive to me and my companion.  The dog died on the spot, and we
left the doctor endeavouring to recover him, by the same operation.

I visited many other apartments, but shall not trouble my reader with all the curiosities I
observed, being studious of brevity.

I had hitherto seen only one side of the academy, the other being appropriated to the advancers
of speculative learning, of whom I shall say something, when I have mentioned one illustrious
person more, who is called among them “the universal artist.”  He told us “he had been thirty
years employing his thoughts for the improvement of human life.”  He had two large rooms full
of wonderful curiosities, and fifty men at work. Some were condensing air into a dry tangible
substance, by extracting the nitre, and letting the aqueous or fluid particles percolate; others
softening marble, for pillows and pin-cushions; others petrifying the hoofs of a living horse,
to preserve them from foundering.  The artist himself was at that time busy upon two great
designs; the first, to sow land with chaff, wherein he affirmed the true seminal virtue to
be contained, as he demonstrated by several experiments, which I was not skilful enough to
comprehend.  The other was, by a certain composition of gums, minerals, and vegetables, outwardly
applied, to prevent the growth of wool upon two young lambs; and he hoped, in a reasonable
time to propagate the breed of naked sheep, all over the kingdom.

We crossed a walk to the other part of the academy, where, as I have already said, the projectors
in speculative learning resided.

The first professor I saw, was in a very large room, with forty pupils about him.  After salutation,
observing me to look earnestly upon a frame, which took up the greatest part of both the length
and breadth of the room, he said, “Perhaps I might wonder to see him employed in a project
for improving speculative knowledge, by practical and mechanical operations.  But the world
would soon be sensible of its usefulness; and he flattered himself, that a more noble, exalted
thought never sprang in any other man’s head.  Every one knew how laborious the usual method
is of attaining to arts and sciences; whereas, by his contrivance, the most ignorant person,
at a reasonable charge, and with a little bodily labour, might write books in philosophy, poetry,
politics, laws, mathematics, and theology, without the least assistance from genius or study.”
He then led me to the frame, about the sides, whereof all his pupils stood in ranks.  It was
twenty feet square, placed in the middle of the room.  The superfices was composed of several
bits of wood, about the bigness of a die, but some larger than others.  They were all linked
together by slender wires.  These bits of wood were covered, on every square, with paper pasted
on them; and on these papers were written all the words of their language, in their several
moods, tenses, and declensions; but without any order.  The professor then desired me “to observe;
for he was going to set his engine at work.”  The pupils, at his command, took each of them
hold of an iron handle, whereof there were forty fixed round the edges of the frame; and giving
them a sudden turn, the whole disposition of the words was entirely changed.  He then commanded
six-and-thirty of the lads, to read the several lines softly, as they appeared upon the frame;
and where they found three or four words together that might make part of a sentence, they
dictated to the four remaining boys, who were scribes.  This work was repeated three or four
times, and at every turn, the engine was so contrived, that the words shifted into new places,
as the square bits of wood moved upside down.

                           [Picture: The frame]

Six hours a day the young students were employed in this labour; and the professor showed me
several volumes in large folio, already collected, of broken sentences, which he intended to
piece together, and out of those rich materials, to give the world a complete body of all arts
and sciences; which, however, might be still improved, and much expedited, if the public would
raise a fund for making and employing five hundred such frames in Lagado, and oblige the managers
to contribute in common their several collections.

He assured me “that this invention had employed all his thoughts from his youth; that he had
emptied the whole vocabulary into his frame, and made the strictest computation of the general
proportion there is in books between the numbers of particles, nouns, and verbs, and other
parts of speech.”

I made my humblest acknowledgment to this illustrious person, for his great communicativeness;
and promised, “if ever I had the good fortune to return to my native country, that I would
do him justice, as the sole inventor of this wonderful machine;” the form and contrivance of
which I desired leave to delineate on paper, as in the figure here annexed.  I told him, “although
it were the custom of our learned in Europe to steal inventions from each other, who had thereby
at least this advantage, that it became a controversy which was the right owner; yet I would
take such caution, that he should have the honour entire, without a rival.”

We next went to the school of languages, where three professors sat in consultation upon improving
that of their own country.

The first project was, to shorten discourse, by cutting polysyllables into one, and leaving
out verbs and participles, because, in reality, all things imaginable are but norms.

The other project was, a scheme for entirely abolishing all words whatsoever; and this was
urged as a great advantage in point of health, as well as brevity.  For it is plain, that every
word we speak is, in some degree, a diminution of our lunge by corrosion, and, consequently,
contributes to the shortening of our lives.  An expedient was therefore offered, “that since
words are only names for things, it would be more convenient for all men to carry about them
such things as were necessary to express a particular business they are to discourse on.” 
And this invention would certainly have taken place, to the great ease as well as health of
the subject, if the women, in conjunction with the vulgar and illiterate, had not threatened
to raise a rebellion unless they might be allowed the liberty to speak with their tongues,
after the manner of their forefathers; such constant irreconcilable enemies to science are
the common people.  However, many of the most learned and wise adhere to the new scheme of
expressing themselves by things; which has only this inconvenience attending it, that if a
man’s business be very great, and of various kinds, he must be obliged, in proportion, to carry
a greater bundle of things upon his back, unless he can afford one or two strong servants to
attend him.  I have often beheld two of those sages almost sinking under the weight of their
packs, like pedlars among us, who, when they met in the street, would lay down their loads,
open their sacks, and hold conversation for an hour together; then put up their implements,
help each other to resume their burdens, and take their leave.

But for short conversations, a man may carry implements in his pockets, and under his arms,
enough to supply him; and in his house, he cannot be at a loss.  Therefore the room where company
meet who practise this art, is full of all things, ready at hand, requisite to furnish matter
for this kind of artificial converse.

Another great advantage proposed by this invention was, that it would serve as a universal
language, to be understood in all civilised nations, whose goods and utensils are generally
of the same kind, or nearly resembling, so that their uses might easily be comprehended.  And
thus ambassadors would be qualified to treat with foreign princes, or ministers of state, to
whose tongues they were utter strangers.

I was at the mathematical school, where the master taught his pupils after a method scarce
imaginable to us in Europe.  The proposition, and demonstration, were fairly written on a thin
wafer, with ink composed of a cephalic tincture.  This, the student was to swallow upon a fasting
stomach, and for three days following, eat nothing but bread and water. As the wafer digested,
the tincture mounted to his brain, bearing the proposition along with it.  But the success
has not hitherto been answerable, partly by some error in the quantum or composition, and partly
by the perverseness of lads, to whom this bolus is so nauseous, that they generally steal aside,
and discharge it upwards, before it can operate; neither have they been yet persuaded to use
so long an abstinence, as the prescription requires.

CHAPTER VI.

A further account of the academy.  The author proposes some improvements, which are honourably
received.

In the school of political projectors, I was but ill entertained; the professors appearing,
in my judgment, wholly out of their senses, which is a scene that never fails to make me melancholy.
These unhappy people were proposing schemes for persuading monarchs to choose favourites upon
the score of their wisdom, capacity, and virtue; of teaching ministers to consult the public
good; of rewarding merit, great abilities, eminent services; of instructing princes to know
their true interest, by placing it on the same foundation with that of their people; of choosing
for employments persons qualified to exercise them, with many other wild, impossible chimeras,
that never entered before into the heart of man to conceive; and confirmed in me the old observation,
“that there is nothing so extravagant and irrational, which some philosophers have not maintained
for truth.”

But, however, I shall so far do justice to this part of the Academy, as to acknowledge that
all of them were not so visionary.  There was a most ingenious doctor, who seemed to be perfectly
versed in the whole nature and system of government.  This illustrious person had very usefully
employed his studies, in finding out effectual remedies for all diseases and corruptions to
which the several kinds of public administration are subject, by the vices or infirmities of
those who govern, as well as by the licentiousness of those who are to obey.  For instance:
whereas all writers and reasoners have agreed, that there is a strict universal resemblance
between the natural and the political body; can there be any thing more evident, than that
the health of both must be preserved, and the diseases cured, by the same prescriptions?  It
is allowed, that senates and great councils are often troubled with redundant, ebullient, and
other peccant humours; with many diseases of the head, and more of the heart; with strong convulsions,
with grievous contractions of the nerves and sinews in both hands, but especially the right;
with spleen, flatus, vertigos, and deliriums; with scrofulous tumours, full of fetid purulent
matter; with sour frothy ructations: with canine appetites, and crudeness of digestion, besides
many others, needless to mention.  This doctor therefore proposed, “that upon the meeting of
the senate, certain physicians should attend it the three first days of their sitting, and
at the close of each day’s debate feel the pulses of every senator; after which, having maturely
considered and consulted upon the nature of the several maladies, and the methods of cure,
they should on the fourth day return to the senate house, attended by their apothecaries stored
with proper medicines; and before the members sat, administer to each of them lenitives, aperitives,
abstersives, corrosives, restringents, palliatives, laxatives, cephalalgics, icterics, apophlegmatics,
acoustics, as their several cases required; and, according as these medicines should operate,
repeat, alter, or omit them, at the next meeting.”

This project could not be of any great expense to the public; and might in my poor opinion,
be of much use for the despatch of business, in those countries where senates have any share
in the legislative power; beget unanimity, shorten debates, open a few mouths which are now
closed, and close many more which are now open; curb the petulancy of the young, and correct
the positiveness of the old; rouse the stupid, and damp the pert.

Again: because it is a general complaint, that the favourites of princes are troubled with
short and weak memories; the same doctor proposed, “that whoever attended a first minister,
after having told his business, with the utmost brevity and in the plainest words, should,
at his departure, give the said minister a tweak by the nose, or a kick in the belly, or tread
on his corns, or lug him thrice by both ears, or run a pin into his breech; or pinch his arm
black and blue, to prevent forgetfulness; and at every levee day, repeat the same operation,
till the business were done, or absolutely refused.”

He likewise directed, “that every senator in the great council of a nation, after he had delivered
his opinion, and argued in the defence of it, should be obliged to give his vote directly contrary;
because if that were done, the result would infallibly terminate in the good of the public.”

When parties in a state are violent, he offered a wonderful contrivance to reconcile them.
The method is this: You take a hundred leaders of each party; you dispose them into couples
of such whose heads are nearest of a size; then let two nice operators saw off the occiput
of each couple at the same time, in such a manner that the brain may be equally divided. Let
the occiputs, thus cut off, be interchanged, applying each to the head of his opposite party-man.
It seems indeed to be a work that requires some exactness, but the professor assured us, “that
if it were dexterously performed, the cure would be infallible.”  For he argued thus: “that
the two half brains being left to debate the matter between themselves within the space of
one skull, would soon come to a good understanding, and produce that moderation, as well as
regularity of thinking, so much to be wished for in the heads of those, who imagine they come
into the world only to watch and govern its motion: and as to the difference of brains, in
quantity or quality, among those who are directors in faction, the doctor assured us, from
his own knowledge, that “it was a perfect trifle.”

I heard a very warm debate between two professors, about the most commodious and effectual
ways and means of raising money, without grieving the subject.  The first affirmed, “the justest
method would be, to lay a certain tax upon vices and folly; and the sum fixed upon every man
to be rated, after the fairest manner, by a jury of his neighbours.” The second was of an opinion
directly contrary; “to tax those qualities of body and mind, for which men chiefly value themselves;
the rate to be more or less, according to the degrees of excelling; the decision whereof should
be left entirely to their own breast.”  The highest tax was upon men who are the greatest favourites
of the other sex, and the assessments, according to the number and nature of the favours they
have received; for which, they are allowed to be their own vouchers.  Wit, valour, and politeness,
were likewise proposed to be largely taxed, and collected in the same manner, by every person’s
giving his own word for the quantum of what he possessed.  But as to honour, justice, wisdom,
and learning, they should not be taxed at all; because they are qualifications of so singular
a kind, that no man will either allow them in his neighbour or value them in himself.

The women were proposed to be taxed according to their beauty and skill in dressing, wherein
they had the same privilege with the men, to be determined by their own judgment.  But constancy,
chastity, good sense, and good nature, were not rated, because they would not bear the charge
of collecting.

To keep senators in the interest of the crown, it was proposed that the members should raffle
for employment; every man first taking an oath, and giving security, that he would vote for
the court, whether he won or not; after which, the losers had, in their turn, the liberty of
raffling upon the next vacancy.  Thus, hope and expectation would be kept alive; none would
complain of broken promises, but impute their disappointments wholly to fortune, whose shoulders
are broader and stronger than those of a ministry.

Another professor showed me a large paper of instructions for discovering plots and conspiracies
against the government.  He advised great statesmen to examine into the diet of all suspected
persons; their times of eating; upon which side they lay in bed; with which hand they wipe
their posteriors; take a strict view of their excrements, and, from the colour, the odour,
the taste, the consistence, the crudeness or maturity of digestion, form a judgment of their
thoughts and designs; because men are never so serious, thoughtful, and intent, as when they
are at stool, which he found by frequent experiment; for, in such conjunctures, when he used,
merely as a trial, to consider which was the best way of murdering the king, his ordure would
have a tincture of green; but quite different, when he thought only of raising an insurrection,
or burning the metropolis.

The whole discourse was written with great acuteness, containing many observations, both curious
and useful for politicians; but, as I conceived, not altogether complete.  This I ventured
to tell the author, and offered, if he pleased, to supply him with some additions.  He received
my proposition with more compliance than is usual among writers, especially those of the projecting
species, professing “he would be glad to receive further information.”

I told him, “that in the kingdom of Tribnia, {454a} by the natives called Langdon, {454b} where
I had sojourned some time in my travels, the bulk of the people consist in a manner wholly
of discoverers, witnesses, informers, accusers, prosecutors, evidences, swearers, together
with their several subservient and subaltern instruments, all under the colours, the conduct,
and the pay of ministers of state, and their deputies.  The plots, in that kingdom, are usually
the workmanship of those persons who desire to raise their own characters of profound politicians;
to restore new vigour to a crazy administration; to stifle or divert general discontents; to
fill their coffers with forfeitures; and raise, or sink the opinion of public credit, as either
shall best answer their private advantage.  It is first agreed and settled among them, what
suspected persons shall be accused of a plot; then, effectual care is taken to secure all their
letters and papers, and put the owners in chains.  These papers are delivered to a set of artists,
very dexterous in finding out the mysterious meanings of words, syllables, and letters: for
instance, they can discover a close stool, to signify a privy council; a flock of geese, a
senate; a lame dog, an invader; the plague, a standing army; a buzzard, a prime minister; the
gout, a high priest; a gibbet, a secretary of state; a chamber pot, a committee of grandees;
a sieve, a court lady; a broom, a revolution; a mouse-trap, an employment; a bottomless pit,
a treasury; a sink, a court; a cap and bells, a favourite; a broken reed, a court of justice;
an empty tun, a general; a running sore, the administration. {455}

“When this method fails, they have two others more effectual, which the learned among them
call acrostics and anagrams.  First, they can decipher all initial letters into political meanings.
Thus N, shall signify a plot; B, a regiment of horse; L, a fleet at sea; or, secondly, by transposing
the letters of the alphabet in any suspected paper, they can lay open the deepest designs of
a discontented party.  So, for example, if I should say, in a letter to a friend, ‘Our brother
Tom has just got the piles,’ a skilful decipherer would discover, that the same letters which
compose that sentence, may be analysed into the following words, ‘Resist ---, a plot is brought
home—The tour.’  And this is the anagrammatic method.”

The professor made me great acknowledgments for communicating these observations, and promised
to make honourable mention of me in his treatise.

I saw nothing in this country that could invite me to a longer continuance, and began to think
of returning home to England.

CHAPTER VII.

The author leaves Lagado: arrives at Maldonada.  No ship ready.  He takes a short voyage to
Glubbdubdrib.  His reception by the governor.

The continent, of which this kingdom is apart, extends itself, as I have reason to believe,
eastward, to that unknown tract of America westward of California; and north, to the Pacific
Ocean, which is not above a hundred and fifty miles from Lagado; where there is a good port,
and much commerce with the great island of Luggnagg, situated to the north-west about 29 degrees
north latitude, and 140 longitude.  This island of Luggnagg stands south-eastward of Japan,
about a hundred leagues distant. There is a strict alliance between the Japanese emperor and
the king of Luggnagg; which affords frequent opportunities of sailing from one island to the
other.  I determined therefore to direct my course this way, in order to my return to Europe.
I hired two mules, with a guide, to show me the way, and carry my small baggage.  I took leave
of my noble protector, who had shown me so much favour, and made me a generous present at my
departure.

My journey was without any accident or adventure worth relating.  When I arrived at the port
of Maldonada (for so it is called) there was no ship in the harbour bound for Luggnagg, nor
likely to be in some time.  The town is about as large as Portsmouth.  I soon fell into some
acquaintance, and was very hospitably received.  A gentleman of distinction said to me, “that
since the ships bound for Luggnagg could not be ready in less than a month, it might be no
disagreeable amusement for me to take a trip to the little island of Glubbdubdrib, about five
leagues off to the south-west.”  He offered himself and a friend to accompany me, and that
I should be provided with a small convenient bark for the voyage.

Glubbdubdrib, as nearly as I can interpret the word, signifies the island of sorcerers or magicians.
It is about one third as large as the Isle of Wight, and extremely fruitful: it is governed
by the head of a certain tribe, who are all magicians.  This tribe marries only among each
other, and the eldest in succession is prince or governor.  He has a noble palace, and a park
of about three thousand acres, surrounded by a wall of hewn stone twenty feet high.  In this
park are several small enclosures for cattle, corn, and gardening.

The governor and his family are served and attended by domestics of a kind somewhat unusual.
By his skill in necromancy he has a power of calling whom he pleases from the dead, and commanding
their service for twenty-four hours, but no longer; nor can he call the same persons up again
in less than three months, except upon very extraordinary occasions.

When we arrived at the island, which was about eleven in the morning, one of the gentlemen
who accompanied me went to the governor, and desired admittance for a stranger, who came on
purpose to have the honour of attending on his highness.  This was immediately granted, and
we all three entered the gate of the palace between two rows of guards, armed and dressed after
a very antic manner, and with something in their countenances that made my flesh creep with
a horror I cannot express.  We passed through several apartments, between servants of the same
sort, ranked on each side as before, till we came to the chamber of presence; where, after
three profound obeisances, and a few general questions, we were permitted to sit on three stools,
near the lowest step of his highness’s throne.  He understood the language of Balnibarbi, although
it was different from that of this island.  He desired me to give him some account of my travels;
and, to let me see that I should be treated without ceremony, he dismissed all his attendants
with a turn of his finger; at which, to my great astonishment, they vanished in an instant,
like visions in a dream when we awake on a sudden.  I could not recover myself in some time,
till the governor assured me, “that I should receive no hurt:” and observing my two companions
to be under no concern, who had been often entertained in the same manner, I began to take
courage, and related to his highness a short history of my several adventures; yet not without
some hesitation, and frequently looking behind me to the place where I had seen those domestic
spectres.  I had the honour to dine with the governor, where a new set of ghosts served up
the meat, and waited at table.  I now observed myself to be less terrified than I had been
in the morning.  I stayed till sunset, but humbly desired his highness to excuse me for not
accepting his invitation of lodging in the palace.  My two friends and I lay at a private house
in the town adjoining, which is the capital of this little island; and the next morning we
returned to pay our duty to the governor, as he was pleased to command us.

After this manner we continued in the island for ten days, most part of every day with the
governor, and at night in our lodging.  I soon grew so familiarized to the sight of spirits,
that after the third or fourth time they gave me no emotion at all: or, if I had any apprehensions
left, my curiosity prevailed over them.  For his highness the governor ordered me “to call
up whatever persons I would choose to name, and in whatever numbers, among all the dead from
the beginning of the world to the present time, and command them to answer any questions I
should think fit to ask; with this condition, that my questions must be confined within the
compass of the times they lived in.  And one thing I might depend upon, that they would certainly
tell me the truth, for lying was a talent of no use in the lower world.”

I made my humble acknowledgments to his highness for so great a favour. We were in a chamber,
from whence there was a fair prospect into the park.  And because my first inclination was
to be entertained with scenes of pomp and magnificence, I desired to see Alexander the Great
at the head of his army, just after the battle of Arbela: which, upon a motion of the governor’s
finger, immediately appeared in a large field, under the window where we stood.  Alexander
was called up into the room: it was with great difficulty that I understood his Greek, and
had but little of my own.  He assured me upon his honour “that he was not poisoned, but died
of a bad fever by excessive drinking.”

Next, I saw Hannibal passing the Alps, who told me “he had not a drop of vinegar in his camp.”

I saw Cæsar and Pompey at the head of their troops, just ready to engage. I saw the former,
in his last great triumph.  I desired that the senate of Rome might appear before me, in one
large chamber, and an assembly of somewhat a later age in counterview, in another.  The first
seemed to be an assembly of heroes and demigods; the other, a knot of pedlars, pick-pockets,
highwayman, and bullies.

The governor, at my request, gave the sign for Cæsar and Brutus to advance towards us.  I was
struck with a profound veneration at the sight of Brutus, and could easily discover the most
consummate virtue, the greatest intrepidity and firmness of mind, the truest love of his country,
and general benevolence for mankind, in every lineament of his countenance.  I observed, with
much pleasure, that these two persons were in good intelligence with each other; and Cæsar
freely confessed to me, “that the greatest actions of his own life were not equal, by many
degrees, to the glory of taking it away.”  I had the honour to have much conversation with
Brutus; and was told, “that his ancestor Junius, Socrates, Epaminondas, Cato the younger, Sir
Thomas More, and himself were perpetually together:” a sextumvirate, to which all the ages
of the world cannot add a seventh.

It would be tedious to trouble the reader with relating what vast numbers of illustrious persons
were called up to gratify that insatiable desire I had to see the world in every period of
antiquity placed before me.  I chiefly fed mine eyes with beholding the destroyers of tyrants
and usurpers, and the restorers of liberty to oppressed and injured nations. But it is impossible
to express the satisfaction I received in my own mind, after such a manner as to make it a
suitable entertainment to the reader.

CHAPTER VIII.

A further account of Glubbdubdrib.  Ancient and modern history corrected.

Having a desire to see those ancients who were most renowned for wit and learning, I set apart
one day on purpose.  I proposed that Homer and Aristotle might appear at the head of all their
commentators; but these were so numerous, that some hundreds were forced to attend in the court,
and outward rooms of the palace.  I knew, and could distinguish those two heroes, at first
sight, not only from the crowd, but from each other. Homer was the taller and comelier person
of the two, walked very erect for one of his age, and his eyes were the most quick and piercing
I ever beheld.  Aristotle stooped much, and made use of a staff.  His visage was meagre, his
hair lank and thin, and his voice hollow.  I soon discovered that both of them were perfect
strangers to the rest of the company, and had never seen or heard of them before; and I had
a whisper from a ghost who shall be nameless, “that these commentators always kept in the most
distant quarters from their principals, in the lower world, through a consciousness of shame
and guilt, because they had so horribly misrepresented the meaning of those authors to posterity.”
I introduced Didymus and Eustathius to Homer, and prevailed on him to treat them better than
perhaps they deserved, for he soon found they wanted a genius to enter into the spirit of a
poet.  But Aristotle was out of all patience with the account I gave him of Scotus and Ramus,
as I presented them to him; and he asked them, “whether the rest of the tribe were as great
dunces as themselves?”

I then desired the governor to call up Descartes and Gassendi, with whom I prevailed to explain
their systems to Aristotle.  This great philosopher freely acknowledged his own mistakes in
natural philosophy, because he proceeded in many things upon conjecture, as all men must do;
and he found that Gassendi, who had made the doctrine of Epicurus as palatable as he could,
and the vortices of Descartes, were equally to be exploded.  He predicted the same fate to
attraction, whereof the present learned are such zealous asserters.  He said, “that new systems
of nature were but new fashions, which would vary in every age; and even those, who pretend
to demonstrate them from mathematical principles, would flourish but a short period of time,
and be out of vogue when that was determined.”

I spent five days in conversing with many others of the ancient learned. I saw most of the
first Roman emperors.  I prevailed on the governor to call up Heliogabalus’s cooks to dress
us a dinner, but they could not show us much of their skill, for want of materials.  A helot
of Agesilaus made us a dish of Spartan broth, but I was not able to get down a second spoonful.

The two gentlemen, who conducted me to the island, were pressed by their private affairs to
return in three days, which I employed in seeing some of the modern dead, who had made the
greatest figure, for two or three hundred years past, in our own and other countries of Europe;
and having been always a great admirer of old illustrious families, I desired the governor
would call up a dozen or two of kings, with their ancestors in order for eight or nine generations.
But my disappointment was grievous and unexpected.  For, instead of a long train with royal
diadems, I saw in one family two fiddlers, three spruce courtiers, and an Italian prelate.
In another, a barber, an abbot, and two cardinals.  I have too great a veneration for crowned
heads, to dwell any longer on so nice a subject.  But as to counts, marquises, dukes, earls,
and the like, I was not so scrupulous.  And I confess, it was not without some pleasure, that
I found myself able to trace the particular features, by which certain families are distinguished,
up to their originals.  I could plainly discover whence one family derives a long chin; why
a second has abounded with knaves for two generations, and fools for two more; why a third
happened to be crack-brained, and a fourth to be sharpers; whence it came, what Polydore Virgil
says of a certain great house, Nec vir fortis, nec foemina casta; how cruelty, falsehood, and
cowardice, grew to be characteristics by which certain families are distinguished as much as
by their coats of arms; who first brought the pox into a noble house, which has lineally descended
scrofulous tumours to their posterity. Neither could I wonder at all this, when I saw such
an interruption of lineages, by pages, lackeys, valets, coachmen, gamesters, fiddlers, players,
captains, and pickpockets.

I was chiefly disgusted with modern history.  For having strictly examined all the persons
of greatest name in the courts of princes, for a hundred years past, I found how the world
had been misled by prostitute writers, to ascribe the greatest exploits in war, to cowards;
the wisest counsel, to fools; sincerity, to flatterers; Roman virtue, to betrayers of their
country; piety, to atheists; chastity, to sodomites; truth, to informers: how many innocent
and excellent persons had been condemned to death or banishment by the practising of great
ministers upon the corruption of judges, and the malice of factions: how many villains had
been exalted to the highest places of trust, power, dignity, and profit: how great a share
in the motions and events of courts, councils, and senates might be challenged by bawds, whores,
pimps, parasites, and buffoons.  How low an opinion I had of human wisdom and integrity, when
I was truly informed of the springs and motives of great enterprises and revolutions in the
world, and of the contemptible accidents to which they owed their success.

Here I discovered the roguery and ignorance of those who pretend to write anecdotes, or secret
history; who send so many kings to their graves with a cup of poison; will repeat the discourse
between a prince and chief minister, where no witness was by; unlock the thoughts and cabinets
of ambassadors and secretaries of state; and have the perpetual misfortune to be mistaken.
Here I discovered the true causes of many great events that have surprised the world; how a
whore can govern the back-stairs, the back-stairs a council, and the council a senate.  A general
confessed, in my presence, “that he got a victory purely by the force of cowardice and ill
conduct;” and an admiral, “that, for want of proper intelligence, he beat the enemy, to whom
he intended to betray the fleet.”  Three kings protested to me, “that in their whole reigns
they never did once prefer any person of merit, unless by mistake, or treachery of some minister
in whom they confided; neither would they do it if they were to live again:” and they showed,
with great strength of reason, “that the royal throne could not be supported without corruption,
because that positive, confident, restiff temper, which virtue infused into a man, was a perpetual
clog to public business.”

I had the curiosity to inquire in a particular manner, by what methods great numbers had procured
to themselves high titles of honour, and prodigious estates; and I confined my inquiry to a
very modern period: however, without grating upon present times, because I would be sure to
give no offence even to foreigners (for I hope the reader need not be told, that I do not in
the least intend my own country, in what I say upon this occasion,) a great number of persons
concerned were called up; and, upon a very slight examination, discovered such a scene of infamy,
that I cannot reflect upon it without some seriousness.  Perjury, oppression, subornation,
fraud, pandarism, and the like infirmities, were among the most excusable arts they had to
mention; and for these I gave, as it was reasonable, great allowance.  But when some confessed
they owed their greatness and wealth to sodomy, or incest; others, to the prostituting of their
own wives and daughters; others, to the betraying of their country or their prince; some, to
poisoning; more to the perverting of justice, in order to destroy the innocent, I hope I may
be pardoned, if these discoveries inclined me a little to abate of that profound veneration,
which I am naturally apt to pay to persons of high rank, who ought to be treated with the utmost
respect due to their sublime dignity, by us their inferiors.

I had often read of some great services done to princes and states, and desired to see the
persons by whom those services were performed.  Upon inquiry I was told, “that their names
were to be found on no record, except a few of them, whom history has represented as the vilest
of rogues and traitors.”  As to the rest, I had never once heard of them. They all appeared
with dejected looks, and in the meanest habit; most of them telling me, “they died in poverty
and disgrace, and the rest on a scaffold or a gibbet.”

Among others, there was one person, whose case appeared a little singular.  He had a youth
about eighteen years old standing by his side. He told me, “he had for many years been commander
of a ship; and in the sea fight at Actium had the good fortune to break through the enemy’s
great line of battle, sink three of their capital ships, and take a fourth, which was the sole
cause of Antony’s flight, and of the victory that ensued; that the youth standing by him, his
only son, was killed in the action.”  He added, “that upon the confidence of some merit, the
war being at an end, he went to Rome, and solicited at the court of Augustus to be preferred
to a greater ship, whose commander had been killed; but, without any regard to his pretensions,
it was given to a boy who had never seen the sea, the son of Libertina, who waited on one of
the emperor’s mistresses.  Returning back to his own vessel, he was charged with neglect of
duty, and the ship given to a favourite page of Publicola, the vice-admiral; whereupon he retired
to a poor farm at a great distance from Rome, and there ended his life.”  I was so curious
to know the truth of this story, that I desired Agrippa might be called, who was admiral in
that fight.  He appeared, and confirmed the whole account: but with much more advantage to
the captain, whose modesty had extenuated or concealed a great part of his merit.

I was surprised to find corruption grown so high and so quick in that empire, by the force
of luxury so lately introduced; which made me less wonder at many parallel cases in other countries,
where vices of all kinds have reigned so much longer, and where the whole praise, as well as
pillage, has been engrossed by the chief commander, who perhaps had the least title to either.

As every person called up made exactly the same appearance he had done in the world, it gave
me melancholy reflections to observe how much the race of human kind was degenerated among
us within these hundred years past; how the pox, under all its consequences and denominations
had altered every lineament of an English countenance; shortened the size of bodies, unbraced
the nerves, relaxed the sinews and muscles, introduced a sallow complexion, and rendered the
flesh loose and rancid.

I descended so low, as to desire some English yeoman of the old stamp might be summoned to
appear; once so famous for the simplicity of their manners, diet, and dress; for justice in
their dealings; for their true spirit of liberty; for their valour, and love of their country.
Neither could I be wholly unmoved, after comparing the living with the dead, when I considered
how all these pure native virtues were prostituted for a piece of money by their grand-children;
who, in selling their votes and managing at elections, have acquired every vice and corruption
that can possibly be learned in a court.

CHAPTER IX.

The author returns to Maldonada.  Sails to the kingdom of Luggnagg.  The author confined. 
He is sent for to court.  The manner of his admittance. The king’s great lenity to his subjects.

The day of our departure being come, I took leave of his highness, the Governor of Glubbdubdrib,
and returned with my two companions to Maldonada, where, after a fortnight’s waiting, a ship
was ready to sail for Luggnagg.  The two gentlemen, and some others, were so generous and kind
as to furnish me with provisions, and see me on board.  I was a month in this voyage.  We had
one violent storm, and were under a necessity of steering westward to get into the trade wind,
which holds for above sixty leagues.  On the 21st of April, 1708, we sailed into the river
of Clumegnig, which is a seaport town, at the south-east point of Luggnagg.  We cast anchor
within a league of the town, and made a signal for a pilot.  Two of them came on board in less
than half an hour, by whom we were guided between certain shoals and rocks, which are very
dangerous in the passage, to a large basin, where a fleet may ride in safety within a cable’s
length of the town-wall.

Some of our sailors, whether out of treachery or inadvertence, had informed the pilots “that
I was a stranger, and great traveller;” whereof these gave notice to a custom-house officer,
by whom I was examined very strictly upon my landing.  This officer spoke to me in the language
of Balnibarbi, which, by the force of much commerce, is generally understood in that town,
especially by seamen and those employed in the customs.  I gave him a short account of some
particulars, and made my story as plausible and consistent as I could; but I thought it necessary
to disguise my country, and call myself a Hollander; because my intentions were for Japan,
and I knew the Dutch were the only Europeans permitted to enter into that kingdom.  I therefore
told the officer, “that having been shipwrecked on the coast of Balnibarbi, and cast on a rock,
I was received up into Laputa, or the flying island (of which he had often heard), and was
now endeavouring to get to Japan, whence I might find a convenience of returning to my own
country.”  The officer said, “I must be confined till he could receive orders from court, for
which he would write immediately, and hoped to receive an answer in a fortnight.”  I was carried
to a convenient lodging with a sentry placed at the door; however, I had the liberty of a large
garden, and was treated with humanity enough, being maintained all the time at the king’s charge.
I was invited by several persons, chiefly out of curiosity, because it was reported that I
came from countries very remote, of which they had never heard.

I hired a young man, who came in the same ship, to be an interpreter; he was a native of Luggnagg,
but had lived some years at Maldonada, and was a perfect master of both languages.  By his
assistance, I was able to hold a conversation with those who came to visit me; but this consisted
only of their questions, and my answers.

The despatch came from court about the time we expected.  It contained a warrant for conducting
me and my retinue to Traldragdubh, or Trildrogdrib (for it is pronounced both ways as near
as I can remember), by a party of ten horse.  All my retinue was that poor lad for an interpreter,
whom I persuaded into my service, and, at my humble request, we had each of us a mule to ride
on.  A messenger was despatched half a day’s journey before us, to give the king notice of
my approach, and to desire, “that his majesty would please to appoint a day and hour, when
it would by his gracious pleasure that I might have the honour to lick the dust before his
footstool.”  This is the court style, and I found it to be more than matter of form: for, upon
my admittance two days after my arrival, I was commanded to crawl upon my belly, and lick the
floor as I advanced; but, on account of my being a stranger, care was taken to have it made
so clean, that the dust was not offensive. However, this was a peculiar grace, not allowed
to any but persons of the highest rank, when they desire an admittance.  Nay, sometimes the
floor is strewed with dust on purpose, when the person to be admitted happens to have powerful
enemies at court; and I have seen a great lord with his mouth so crammed, that when he had
crept to the proper distance from the throne; he was not able to speak a word.  Neither is
there any remedy; because it is capital for those, who receive an audience to spit or wipe
their mouths in his majesty’s presence.  There is indeed another custom, which I cannot altogether
approve of: when the king has a mind to put any of his nobles to death in a gentle indulgent
manner, he commands the floor to be strewed with a certain brown powder of a deadly composition,
which being licked up, infallibly kills him in twenty-four hours.  But in justice to this prince’s
great clemency, and the care he has of his subjects’ lives (wherein it were much to be wished
that the Monarchs of Europe would imitate him), it must be mentioned for his honour, that strict
orders are given to have the infected parts of the floor well washed after every such execution,
which, if his domestics neglect, they are in danger of incurring his royal displeasure.  I
myself heard him give directions, that one of his pages should be whipped, whose turn it was
to give notice about washing the floor after an execution, but maliciously had omitted it;
by which neglect a young lord of great hopes, coming to an audience, was unfortunately poisoned,
although the king at that time had no design against his life.  But this good prince was so
gracious as to forgive the poor page his whipping, upon promise that he would do so no more,
without special orders.

To return from this digression.  When I had crept within four yards of the throne, I raised
myself gently upon my knees, and then striking my forehead seven times against the ground,
I pronounced the following words, as they had been taught me the night before, Inckpling gloffthrobb
squut serummblhiop mlashnalt zwin tnodbalkuffh slhiophad gurdlubh asht.  This is the compliment,
established by the laws of the land, for all persons admitted to the king’s presence.  It may
be rendered into English thus: “May your celestial majesty outlive the sun, eleven moons and
a half!”  To this the king returned some answer, which, although I could not understand, yet
I replied as I had been directed: Fluft drin yalerick dwuldom prastrad mirpush, which properly
signifies, “My tongue is in the mouth of my friend;” and by this expression was meant, that
I desired leave to bring my interpreter; whereupon the young man already mentioned was accordingly
introduced, by whose intervention I answered as many questions as his majesty could put in
above an hour.  I spoke in the Balnibarbian tongue, and my interpreter delivered my meaning
in that of Luggnagg.

The king was much delighted with my company, and ordered his bliffmarklub, or high-chamberlain,
to appoint a lodging in the court for me and my interpreter; with a daily allowance for my
table, and a large purse of gold for my common expenses.

I staid three months in this country, out of perfect obedience to his majesty; who was pleased
highly to favour me, and made me very honourable offers.  But I thought it more consistent
with prudence and justice to pass the remainder of my days with my wife and family.

CHAPTER X.

The Luggnaggians commended.  A particular description of the Struldbrugs, with many conversations
between the author and some eminent persons upon that subject.

The Luggnaggians are a polite and generous people; and although they are not without some share
of that pride which is peculiar to all Eastern countries, yet they show themselves courteous
to strangers, especially such who are countenanced by the court.  I had many acquaintance,
and among persons of the best fashion; and being always attended by my interpreter, the conversation
we had was not disagreeable.  I cried out, as in a rapture, “Happy nation, where every child
hath at least a chance for being immortal!  Happy people, who enjoy so many living examples
of ancient virtue, and have masters ready to instruct them in the wisdom of all former ages!
but happiest, beyond all comparison, are those excellent struldbrugs, who, being born exempt
from that universal calamity of human nature, have their minds free and disengaged, without
the weight and depression of spirits caused by the continual apprehensions of death!”  I discovered
my admiration that I had not observed any of these illustrious persons at court; the black
spot on the forehead being so remarkable a distinction, that I could not have easily overlooked
it: and it was impossible that his majesty, a most judicious prince, should not provide himself
with a good number of such wise and able counsellors.  Yet perhaps the virtue of those reverend
sages was too strict for the corrupt and libertine manners of a court: and we often find by
experience, that young men are too opinionated and volatile to be guided by the sober dictates
of their seniors.  However, since the king was pleased to allow me access to his royal person,
I was resolved, upon the very first occasion, to deliver my opinion to him on this matter freely
and at large, by the help of my interpreter; and whether he would please to take my advice
or not, yet in one thing I was determined, that his majesty having frequently offered me an
establishment in this country, I would, with great thankfulness, accept the favour, and pass
my life here in the conversation of those superior beings the struldbrugs, if they would please
to admit me.”

The gentleman to whom I addressed my discourse, because (as I have already observed) he spoke
the language of Balnibarbi, said to me, with a sort of a smile which usually arises from pity
to the ignorant, “that he was glad of any occasion to keep me among them, and desired my permission
to explain to the company what I had spoke.”  He did so, and they talked together for some
time in their own language, whereof I understood not a syllable, neither could I observe by
their countenances, what impression my discourse had made on them.  After a short silence,
the same person told me, “that his friends and mine (so he thought fit to express himself)
were very much pleased with the judicious remarks I had made on the great happiness and advantages
of immortal life, and they were desirous to know, in a particular manner, what scheme of living
I should have formed to myself, if it had fallen to my lot to have been born a struldbrug.”

I answered, “it was easy to be eloquent on so copious and delightful a subject, especially
to me, who had been often apt to amuse myself with visions of what I should do, if I were a
king, a general, or a great lord: and upon this very case, I had frequently run over the whole
system how I should employ myself, and pass the time, if I were sure to live for ever.

“That, if it had been my good fortune to come into the world a struldbrug, as soon as I could
discover my own happiness, by understanding the difference between life and death, I would
first resolve, by all arts and methods, whatsoever, to procure myself riches. In the pursuit
of which, by thrift and management, I might reasonably expect, in about two hundred years,
to be the wealthiest man in the kingdom.  In the second place, I would, from my earliest youth,
apply myself to the study of arts and sciences, by which I should arrive in time to excel all
others in learning.  Lastly, I would carefully record every action and event of consequence,
that happened in the public, impartially draw the characters of the several successions of
princes and great ministers of state, with my own observations on every point.  I would exactly
set down the several changes in customs, language, fashions of dress, diet, and diversions.
By all which acquirements, I should be a living treasure of knowledge and wisdom, and certainly
become the oracle of the nation.

“I would never marry after threescore, but live in a hospitable manner, yet still on the saving
side.  I would entertain myself in forming and directing the minds of hopeful young men, by
convincing them, from my own remembrance, experience, and observation, fortified by numerous
examples, of the usefulness of virtue in public and private life.  But my choice and constant
companions should be a set of my own immortal brotherhood; among whom, I would elect a dozen
from the most ancient, down to my own contemporaries.  Where any of these wanted fortunes,
I would provide them with convenient lodges round my own estate, and have some of them always
at my table; only mingling a few of the most valuable among you mortals, whom length of time
would harden me to lose with little or no reluctance, and treat your posterity after the same
manner; just as a man diverts himself with the annual succession of pinks and tulips in his
garden, without regretting the loss of those which withered the preceding year.

“These struldbrugs and I would mutually communicate our observations and memorials, through
the course of time; remark the several gradations by which corruption steals into the world,
and oppose it in every step, by giving perpetual warning and instruction to mankind; which,
added to the strong influence of our own example, would probably prevent that continual degeneracy
of human nature so justly complained of in all ages.

“Add to this, the pleasure of seeing the various revolutions of states and empires; the changes
in the lower and upper world; ancient cities in ruins, and obscure villages become the seats
of kings; famous rivers lessening into shallow brooks; the ocean leaving one coast dry, and
overwhelming another; the discovery of many countries yet unknown; barbarity overrunning the
politest nations, and the most barbarous become civilized.  I should then see the discovery
of the longitude, the perpetual motion, the universal medicine, and many other great inventions,
brought to the utmost perfection.

“What wonderful discoveries should we make in astronomy, by outliving and confirming our own
predictions; by observing the progress and return of comets, with the changes of motion in
the sun, moon, and stars!”

I enlarged upon many other topics, which the natural desire of endless life, and sublunary
happiness, could easily furnish me with.  When I had ended, and the sum of my discourse had
been interpreted, as before, to the rest of the company, there was a good deal of talk among
them in the language of the country, not without some laughter at my expense.  At last, the
same gentleman who had been my interpreter, said, “he was desired by the rest to set me right
in a few mistakes, which I had fallen into through the common imbecility of human nature, and
upon that allowance was less answerable for them.  That this breed of struldbrugs was peculiar
to their country, for there were no such people either in Balnibarbi or Japan, where he had
the honour to be ambassador from his majesty, and found the natives in both those kingdoms
very hard to believe that the fact was possible: and it appeared from my astonishment when
he first mentioned the matter to me, that I received it as a thing wholly new, and scarcely
to be credited.  That in the two kingdoms above mentioned, where, during his residence, he
had conversed very much, he observed long life to be the universal desire and wish of mankind.
That whoever had one foot in the grave was sure to hold back the other as strongly as he could.
That the oldest had still hopes of living one day longer, and looked on death as the greatest
evil, from which nature always prompted him to retreat.  Only in this island of Luggnagg the
appetite for living was not so eager, from the continual example of the struldbrugs before
their eyes.

“That the system of living contrived by me, was unreasonable and unjust; because it supposed
a perpetuity of youth, health, and vigour, which no man could be so foolish to hope, however
extravagant he may be in his wishes.  That the question therefore was not, whether a man would
choose to be always in the prime of youth, attended with prosperity and health; but how he
would pass a perpetual life under all the usual disadvantages which old age brings along with
it.  For although few men will avow their desires of being immortal, upon such hard conditions,
yet in the two kingdoms before mentioned, of Balnibarbi and Japan, he observed that every man
desired to put off death some time longer, let it approach ever so late: and he rarely heard
of any man who died willingly, except he were incited by the extremity of grief or torture.

The reader will easily believe, that from what I had hear and seen, my keen appetite for perpetuity
of life was much abated.  I grew heartily ashamed of the pleasing visions I had formed; and
thought no tyrant could invent a death into which I would not run with pleasure, from such
a life.  The king heard of all that had passed between me and my friends upon this occasion,
and rallied me very pleasantly; wishing I could send a couple of struldbrugs to my own country,
to arm our people against the fear of death; but this, it seems, is forbidden by the fundamental
laws of the kingdom, or else I should have been well content with the trouble and expense of
transporting them.

I could not but agree, that the laws of this kingdom relative to the struldbrugs were founded
upon the strongest reasons, and such as any other country would be under the necessity of enacting,
in the like circumstances.  Otherwise, as avarice is the necessary consequence of old age,
those immortals would in time become proprietors of the whole nation, and engross the civil
power, which, for want of abilities to manage, must end in the ruin of the public.

CHAPTER XI.

The author leaves Luggnagg, and sails to Japan.  From thence he returns in a Dutch ship to
Amsterdam, and from Amsterdam to England.

I thought this account of the struldbrugs might be some entertainment to the reader, because
it seems to be a little out of the common way; at least I do not remember to have met the like
in any book of travels that has come to my hands: and if I am deceived, my excuse must be,
that it is necessary for travellers who describe the same country, very often to agree in dwelling
on the same particulars, without deserving the censure of having borrowed or transcribed from
those who wrote before them.

There is indeed a perpetual commerce between this kingdom and the great empire of Japan; and
it is very probable, that the Japanese authors may have given some account of the struldbrugs;
but my stay in Japan was so short, and I was so entirely a stranger to the language, that I
was not qualified to make any inquiries.  But I hope the Dutch, upon this notice, will be curious
and able enough to supply my defects.

His majesty having often pressed me to accept some employment in his court, and finding me
absolutely determined to return to my native country, was pleased to give me his license to
depart; and honoured me with a letter of recommendation, under his own hand, to the Emperor
of Japan.  He likewise presented me with four hundred and forty-four large pieces of gold (this
nation delighting in even numbers), and a red diamond, which I sold in England for eleven hundred
pounds.

On the 6th of May, 1709, I took a solemn leave of his majesty, and all my friends.  This prince
was so gracious as to order a guard to conduct me to Glanguenstald, which is a royal port to
the south-west part of the island.  In six days I found a vessel ready to carry me to Japan,
and spent fifteen days in the voyage.  We landed at a small port-town called Xamoschi, situated
on the south-east part of Japan; the town lies on the western point, where there is a narrow
strait leading northward into along arm of the sea, upon the north-west part of which, Yedo,
the metropolis, stands.  At landing, I showed the custom-house officers my letter from the
king of Luggnagg to his imperial majesty.  They knew the seal perfectly well; it was as broad
as the palm of my hand.  The impression was, A king lifting up a lame beggar from the earth.
The magistrates of the town, hearing of my letter, received me as a public minister.  They
provided me with carriages and servants, and bore my charges to Yedo; where I was admitted
to an audience, and delivered my letter, which was opened with great ceremony, and explained
to the Emperor by an interpreter, who then gave me notice, by his majesty’s order, “that I
should signify my request, and, whatever it were, it should be granted, for the sake of his
royal brother of Luggnagg.”  This interpreter was a person employed to transact affairs with
the Hollanders.  He soon conjectured, by my countenance, that I was a European, and therefore
repeated his majesty’s commands in Low Dutch, which he spoke perfectly well.  I answered, as
I had before determined, “that I was a Dutch merchant, shipwrecked in a very remote country,
whence I had travelled by sea and land to Luggnagg, and then took shipping for Japan; where
I knew my countrymen often traded, and with some of these I hoped to get an opportunity of
returning into Europe: I therefore most humbly entreated his royal favour, to give order that
I should be conducted in safety to Nangasac.”  To this I added another petition, “that for
the sake of my patron the king of Luggnagg, his majesty would condescend to excuse my performing
the ceremony imposed on my countrymen, of trampling upon the crucifix: because I had been thrown
into his kingdom by my misfortunes, without any intention of trading.” When this latter petition
was interpreted to the Emperor, he seemed a little surprised; and said, “he believed I was
the first of my countrymen who ever made any scruple in this point; and that he began to doubt,
whether I was a real Hollander, or not; but rather suspected I must be a Christian.  However,
for the reasons I had offered, but chiefly to gratify the king of Luggnagg by an uncommon mark
of his favour, he would comply with the singularity of my humour; but the affair must be managed
with dexterity, and his officers should be commanded to let me pass, as it were by forgetfulness.
For he assured me, that if the secret should be discovered by my countrymen the Dutch, they
would cut my throat in the voyage.”  I returned my thanks, by the interpreter, for so unusual
a favour; and some troops being at that time on their march to Nangasac, the commanding officer
had orders to convey me safe thither, with particular instructions about the business of the
crucifix.

On the 9th day of June, 1709, I arrived at Nangasac, after a very long and troublesome journey.
I soon fell into the company of some Dutch sailors belonging to the Amboyna, of Amsterdam,
a stout ship of 450 tons. I had lived long in Holland, pursuing my studies at Leyden, and I
spoke Dutch well.  The seamen soon knew whence I came last: they were curious to inquire into
my voyages and course of life.  I made up a story as short and probable as I could, but concealed
the greatest part.  I knew many persons in Holland.  I was able to invent names for my parents,
whom I pretended to be obscure people in the province of Gelderland.  I would have given the
captain (one Theodorus Vangrult) what he pleased to ask for my voyage to Holland; but understanding
I was a surgeon, he was contented to take half the usual rate, on condition that I would serve
him in the way of my calling.  Before we took shipping, I was often asked by some of the crew,
whether I had performed the ceremony above mentioned?  I evaded the question by general answers;
“that I had satisfied the Emperor and court in all particulars.”  However, a malicious rogue
of a skipper went to an officer, and pointing to me, told him, “I had not yet trampled on the
crucifix;” but the other, who had received instructions to let me pass, gave the rascal twenty
strokes on the shoulders with a bamboo; after which I was no more troubled with such questions.

Nothing happened worth mentioning in this voyage.  We sailed with a fair wind to the Cape of
Good Hope, where we staid only to take in fresh water.  On the 10th of April, 1710, we arrived
safe at Amsterdam, having lost only three men by sickness in the voyage, and a fourth, who
fell from the foremast into the sea, not far from the coast of Guinea.  From Amsterdam I soon
after set sail for England, in a small vessel belonging to that city.

On the 16th of April we put in at the Downs.  I landed next morning, and saw once more my native
country, after an absence of five years and six months complete.  I went straight to Redriff,
where I arrived the same day at two in the afternoon, and found my wife and family in good health.

PART IV.  A VOYAGE TO THE COUNTRY OF THE HOUYHNHNMS.

CHAPTER I.

The author sets out as captain of a ship.  His men conspire against him, confine him a long
time to his cabin, and set him on shore in an unknown land.  He travels up into the country.
The Yahoos, a strange sort of animal, described.  The author meets two Houyhnhnms.

I continued at home with my wife and children about five months, in a very happy condition,
if I could have learned the lesson of knowing when I was well.  I left my poor wife big with
child, and accepted an advantageous offer made me to be captain of the Adventurer, a stout
merchantman of 350 tons: for I understood navigation well, and being grown weary of a surgeon’s
employment at sea, which, however, I could exercise upon occasion, I took a skilful young man
of that calling, one Robert Purefoy, into my ship.  We set sail from Portsmouth upon the 7th
day of September, 1710; on the 14th we met with Captain Pocock, of Bristol, at Teneriffe, who
was going to the bay of Campechy to cut logwood.  On the 16th, he was parted from us by a storm;
I heard since my return, that his ship foundered, and none escaped but one cabin boy.  He was
an honest man, and a good sailor, but a little too positive in his own opinions, which was
the cause of his destruction, as it has been with several others; for if he had followed my
advice, he might have been safe at home with his family at this time, as well as myself.

I had several men who died in my ship of calentures, so that I was forced to get recruits out
of Barbadoes and the Leeward Islands, where I touched, by the direction of the merchants who
employed me; which I had soon too much cause to repent: for I found afterwards, that most of
them had been buccaneers.  I had fifty hands onboard; and my orders were, that I should trade
with the Indians in the South-Sea, and make what discoveries I could.  These rogues, whom I
had picked up, debauched my other men, and they all formed a conspiracy to seize the ship,
and secure me; which they did one morning, rushing into my cabin, and binding me hand and foot,
threatening to throw me overboard, if I offered to stir. I told them, “I was their prisoner,
and would submit.”  This they made me swear to do, and then they unbound me, only fastening
one of my legs with a chain, near my bed, and placed a sentry at my door with his piece charged,
who was commanded to shoot me dead if I attempted my liberty. They sent me own victuals and
drink, and took the government of the ship to themselves.  Their design was to turn pirates
and, plunder the Spaniards, which they could not do till they got more men.  But first they
resolved to sell the goods the ship, and then go to Madagascar for recruits, several among
them having died since my confinement.  They sailed many weeks, and traded with the Indians;
but I knew not what course they took, being kept a close prisoner in my cabin, and expecting
nothing less than to be murdered, as they often threatened me.

Upon the 9th day of May, 1711, one James Welch came down to my cabin, and said, “he had orders
from the captain to set me ashore.”  I expostulated with him, but in vain; neither would he
so much as tell me who their new captain was.  They forced me into the long-boat, letting me
put on my best suit of clothes, which were as good as new, and take a small bundle of linen,
but no arms, except my hanger; and they were so civil as not to search my pockets, into which
I conveyed what money I had, with some other little necessaries.  They rowed about a league,
and then set me down on a strand.  I desired them to tell me what country it was.  They all
swore, “they knew no more than myself;” but said, “that the captain” (as they called him) “was
resolved, after they had sold the lading, to get rid of me in the first place where they could
discover land.”  They pushed off immediately, advising me to make haste for fear of being overtaken
by the tide, and so bade me farewell.

In this desolate condition I advanced forward, and soon got upon firm ground, where I sat down
on a bank to rest myself, and consider what I had best do.  When I was a little refreshed,
I went up into the country, resolving to deliver myself to the first savages I should meet,
and purchase my life from them by some bracelets, glass rings, and other toys, which sailors
usually provide themselves with in those voyages, and whereof I had some about me.  The land
was divided by long rows of trees, not regularly planted, but naturally growing; there was
great plenty of grass, and several fields of oats.  I walked very circumspectly, for fear of
being surprised, or suddenly shot with an arrow from behind, or on either side.  I fell into
a beaten road, where I saw many tracts of human feet, and some of cows, but most of horses.
At last I beheld several animals in a field, and one or two of the same kind sitting in trees.
Their shape was very singular and deformed, which a little discomposed me, so that I lay down
behind a thicket to observe them better.  Some of them coming forward near the place where
I lay, gave me an opportunity of distinctly marking their form.  Their heads and breasts were
covered with a thick hair, some frizzled, and others lank; they had beards like goats, and
a long ridge of hair down their backs, and the fore parts of their legs and feet; but the rest
of their bodies was bare, so that I might see their skins, which were of a brown buff colour.
They had no tails, nor any hair at all on their buttocks, except about the anus, which, I presume,
nature had placed there to defend them as they sat on the ground, for this posture they used,
as well as lying down, and often stood on their hind feet.  They climbed high trees as nimbly
as a squirrel, for they had strong extended claws before and behind, terminating in sharp points,
and hooked.  They would often spring, and bound, and leap, with prodigious agility.  The females
were not so large as the males; they had long lank hair on their heads, but none on their faces,
nor any thing more than a sort of down on the rest of their bodies, except about the anus and
pudenda.  The dugs hung between their fore feet, and often reached almost to the ground as
they walked.  The hair of both sexes was of several colours, brown, red, black, and yellow.
Upon the whole, I never beheld, in all my travels, so disagreeable an animal, or one against
which I naturally conceived so strong an antipathy.  So that, thinking I had seen enough, full
of contempt and aversion, I got up, and pursued the beaten road, hoping it might direct me
to the cabin of some Indian.  I had not got far, when I met one of these creatures full in
my way, and coming up directly to me.  The ugly monster, when he saw me, distorted several
ways, every feature of his visage, and stared, as at an object he had never seen before; then
approaching nearer, lifted up his fore-paw, whether out of curiosity or mischief I could not
tell; but I drew my hanger, and gave him a good blow with the flat side of it, for I durst
not strike with the edge, fearing the inhabitants might be provoked against me, if they should
come to know that I had killed or maimed any of their cattle.  When the beast felt the smart,
he drew back, and roared so loud, that a herd of at least forty came flocking about me from
the next field, howling and making odious faces; but I ran to the body of a tree, and leaning
my back against it, kept them off by waving my hanger.  Several of this cursed brood, getting
hold of the branches behind, leaped up into the tree, whence they began to discharge their
excrements on my head; however, I escaped pretty well by sticking close to the stem of the
tree, but was almost stifled with the filth, which fell about me on every side.

In the midst of this distress, I observed them all to run away on a sudden as fast as they
could; at which I ventured to leave the tree and pursue the road, wondering what it was that
could put them into this fright.  But looking on my left hand, I saw a horse walking softly
in the field; which my persecutors having sooner discovered, was the cause of their flight.
The horse started a little, when he came near me, but soon recovering himself, looked full
in my face with manifest tokens of wonder; he viewed my hands and feet, walking round me several
times.  I would have pursued my journey, but he placed himself directly in the way, yet looking
with a very mild aspect, never offering the least violence. We stood gazing at each other for
some time; at last I took the boldness to reach my hand towards his neck with a design to stroke
it, using the common style and whistle of jockeys, when they are going to handle a strange
horse.  But this animal seemed to receive my civilities with disdain, shook his head, and bent
his brows, softly raising up his right fore-foot to remove my hand.  Then he neighed three
or four times, but in so different a cadence, that I almost began to think he was speaking
to himself, in some language of his own.

While he and I were thus employed, another horse came up; who applying himself to the first
in a very formal manner, they gently struck each other’s right hoof before, neighing several
times by turns, and varying the sound, which seemed to be almost articulate.  They went some
paces off, as if it were to confer together, walking side by side, backward and forward, like
persons deliberating upon some affair of weight, but often turning their eyes towards me, as
it were to watch that I might not escape.  I was amazed to see such actions and behaviour in
brute beasts; and concluded with myself, that if the inhabitants of this country were endued
with a proportionable degree of reason, they must needs be the wisest people upon earth.  This
thought gave me so much comfort, that I resolved to go forward, until I could discover some
house or village, or meet with any of the natives, leaving the two horses to discourse together
as they pleased.  But the first, who was a dapple gray, observing me to steal off, neighed
after me in so expressive a tone, that I fancied myself to understand what he meant; whereupon
I turned back, and came near to him to expect his farther commands: but concealing my fear
as much as I could, for I began to be in some pain how this adventure might terminate; and
the reader will easily believe I did not much like my present situation.

The two horses came up close to me, looking with great earnestness upon my face and hands.
The gray steed rubbed my hat all round with his right fore-hoof, and discomposed it so much
that I was forced to adjust it better by taking it off and settling it again; whereat, both
he and his companion (who was a brown bay) appeared to be much surprised: the latter felt the
lappet of my coat, and finding it to hang loose about me, they both looked with new signs of
wonder.  He stroked my right hand, seeming to admire the softness and colour; but he squeezed
it so hard between his hoof and his pastern, that I was forced to roar; after which they both
touched me with all possible tenderness.  They were under great perplexity about my shoes and
stockings, which they felt very often, neighing to each other, and using various gestures,
not unlike those of a philosopher, when he would attempt to solve some new and difficult phenomenon.

Upon the whole, the behaviour of these animals was so orderly and rational, so acute and judicious,
that I at last concluded they must needs be magicians, who had thus metamorphosed themselves
upon some design, and seeing a stranger in the way, resolved to divert themselves with him;
or, perhaps, were really amazed at the sight of a man so very different in habit, feature,
and complexion, from those who might probably live in so remote a climate.  Upon the strength
of this reasoning, I ventured to address them in the following manner: “Gentlemen, if you be
conjurers, as I have good cause to believe, you can understand my language; therefore I make
bold to let your worships know that I am a poor distressed Englishman, driven by his misfortunes
upon your coast; and I entreat one of you to let me ride upon his back, as if he were a real
horse, to some house or village where I can be relieved. In return of which favour, I will
make you a present of this knife and bracelet,” taking them out of my pocket.  The two creatures
stood silent while I spoke, seeming to listen with great attention, and when I had ended, they
neighed frequently towards each other, as if they were engaged in serious conversation.  I
plainly observed that their language expressed the passions very well, and the words might,
with little pains, be resolved into an alphabet more easily than the Chinese.

I could frequently distinguish the word Yahoo, which was repeated by each of them several times:
and although it was impossible for me to conjecture what it meant, yet while the two horses
were busy in conversation, I endeavoured to practise this word upon my tongue; and as soon
as they were silent, I boldly pronounced Yahoo in a loud voice, imitating at the same time,
as near as I could, the neighing of a horse; at which they were both visibly surprised; and
the gray repeated the same word twice, as if he meant to teach me the right accent; wherein
I spoke after him as well as I could, and found myself perceivably to improve every time, though
very far from any degree of perfection.  Then the bay tried me with a second word, much harder
to be pronounced; but reducing it to the English orthography, may be spelt thus, Houyhnhnm.
I did not succeed in this so well as in the former; but after two or three farther trials,
I had better fortune; and they both appeared amazed at my capacity.

After some further discourse, which I then conjectured might relate to me, the two friends
took their leaves, with the same compliment of striking each other’s hoof; and the gray made
me signs that I should walk before him; wherein I thought it prudent to comply, till I could
find a better director.  When I offered to slacken my pace, he would cry hhuun hhuun: I guessed
his meaning, and gave him to understand, as well as I could, “that I was weary, and not able
to walk faster;” upon which he would stand awhile to let me rest.

CHAPTER II.

The author conducted by a Houyhnhnm to his house.  The house described. The author’s reception.
The food of the Houyhnhnms.  The author in distress for want of meat.  Is at last relieved.
His manner of feeding in this country.

Having travelled about three miles, we came to a long kind of building, made of timber stuck
in the ground, and wattled across; the roof was low and covered with straw.  I now began to
be a little comforted; and took out some toys, which travellers usually carry for presents
to the savage Indians of America, and other parts, in hopes the people of the house would be
thereby encouraged to receive me kindly.  The horse made me a sign to go in first; it was a
large room with a smooth clay floor, and a rack and manger, extending the whole length on one
side.  There were three nags and two mares, not eating, but some of them sitting down upon
their hams, which I very much wondered at; but wondered more to see the rest employed in domestic
business; these seemed but ordinary cattle. However, this confirmed my first opinion, that
a people who could so far civilise brute animals, must needs excel in wisdom all the nations
of the world.  The gray came in just after, and thereby prevented any ill treatment which the
others might have given me.  He neighed to them several times in a style of authority, and
received answers.

Beyond this room there were three others, reaching the length of the house, to which you passed
through three doors, opposite to each other, in the manner of a vista.  We went through the
second room towards the third.  Here the gray walked in first, beckoning me to attend: I waited
in the second room, and got ready my presents for the master and mistress of the house; they
were two knives, three bracelets of false pearls, a small looking-glass, and a bead necklace.
The horse neighed three or four times, and I waited to hear some answers in a human voice,
but I heard no other returns than in the same dialect, only one or two a little shriller than
his.  I began to think that this house must belong to some person of great note among them,
because there appeared so much ceremony before I could gain admittance.  But, that a man of
quality should be served all by horses, was beyond my comprehension.  I feared my brain was
disturbed by my sufferings and misfortunes.  I roused myself, and looked about me in the room
where I was left alone: this was furnished like the first, only after a more elegant manner.
I rubbed my eyes often, but the same objects still occurred.  I pinched my arms and sides to
awake myself, hoping I might be in a dream.  I then absolutely concluded, that all these appearances
could be nothing else but necromancy and magic. But I had no time to pursue these reflections;
for the gray horse came to the door, and made me a sign to follow him into the third room where
I saw a very comely mare, together with a colt and foal, sitting on their haunches upon mats
of straw, not unartfully made, and perfectly neat and clean.

The mare soon after my entrance rose from her mat, and coming up close, after having nicely
observed my hands and face, gave me a most contemptuous look; and turning to the horse, I heard
the word Yahoo often repeated betwixt them; the meaning of which word I could not then comprehend,
although it was the first I had learned to pronounce.  But I was soon better informed, to my
everlasting mortification; for the horse, beckoning to me with his head, and repeating the
hhuun, hhuun, as he did upon the road, which I understood was to attend him, led me out into
a kind of court, where was another building, at some distance from the house.  Here we entered,
and I saw three of those detestable creatures, which I first met after my landing, feeding
upon roots, and the flesh of some animals, which I afterwards found to be that of asses and
dogs, and now and then a cow, dead by accident or disease.  They were all tied by the neck
with strong withes fastened to a beam; they held their food between the claws of their fore
feet, and tore it with their teeth.

The master horse ordered a sorrel nag, one of his servants, to untie the largest of these animals,
and take him into the yard.  The beast and I were brought close together, and by our countenances
diligently compared both by master and servant, who thereupon repeated several times the word
Yahoo.  My horror and astonishment are not to be described, when I observed in this abominable
animal, a perfect human figure: the face of it indeed was flat and broad, the nose depressed,
the lips large, and the mouth wide; but these differences are common to all savage nations,
where the lineaments of the countenance are distorted, by the natives suffering their infants
to lie grovelling on the earth, or by carrying them on their backs, nuzzling with their face
against the mothers’ shoulders. The fore-feet of the Yahoo differed from my hands in nothing
else but the length of the nails, the coarseness and brownness of the palms, and the hairiness
on the backs.  There was the same resemblance between our feet, with the same differences;
which I knew very well, though the horses did not, because of my shoes and stockings; the same
in every part of our bodies except as to hairiness and colour, which I have already described.

The great difficulty that seemed to stick with the two horses, was to see the rest of my body
so very different from that of a Yahoo, for which I was obliged to my clothes, whereof they
had no conception.  The sorrel nag offered me a root, which he held (after their manner, as
we shall describe in its proper place) between his hoof and pastern; I took it in my hand,
and, having smelt it, returned it to him again as civilly as I could.  He brought out of the
Yahoos’ kennel a piece of ass’s flesh; but it smelt so offensively that I turned from it with
loathing: he then threw it to the Yahoo, by whom it was greedily devoured.  He afterwards showed
me a wisp of hay, and a fetlock full of oats; but I shook my head, to signify that neither
of these were food for me.  And indeed I now apprehended that I must absolutely starve, if
I did not get to some of my own species; for as to those filthy Yahoos, although there were
few greater lovers of mankind at that time than myself, yet I confess I never saw any sensitive
being so detestable on all accounts; and the more I came near them the more hateful they grew,
while I stayed in that country.  This the master horse observed by my behaviour, and therefore
sent the Yahoo back to his kennel.  He then put his fore-hoof to his mouth, at which I was
much surprised, although he did it with ease, and with a motion that appeared perfectly natural,
and made other signs, to know what I would eat; but I could not return him such an answer as
he was able to apprehend; and if he had understood me, I did not see how it was possible to
contrive any way for finding myself nourishment.  While we were thus engaged, I observed a
cow passing by, whereupon I pointed to her, and expressed a desire to go and milk her.  This
had its effect; for he led me back into the house, and ordered a mare-servant to open a room,
where a good store of milk lay in earthen and wooden vessels, after a very orderly and cleanly
manner.  She gave me a large bowlful, of which I drank very heartily, and found myself well
refreshed.

About noon, I saw coming towards the house a kind of vehicle drawn like a sledge by four Yahoos.
There was in it an old steed, who seemed to be of quality; he alighted with his hind-feet forward,
having by accident got a hurt in his left fore-foot.  He came to dine with our horse, who received
him with great civility.  They dined in the best room, and had oats boiled in milk for the
second course, which the old horse ate warm, but the rest cold.  Their mangers were placed
circular in the middle of the room, and divided into several partitions, round which they sat
on their haunches, upon bosses of straw.  In the middle was a large rack, with angles answering
to every partition of the manger; so that each horse and mare ate their own hay, and their
own mash of oats and milk, with much decency and regularity.  The behaviour of the young colt
and foal appeared very modest, and that of the master and mistress extremely cheerful and complaisant
to their guest.  The gray ordered me to stand by him; and much discourse passed between him
and his friend concerning me, as I found by the stranger’s often looking on me, and the frequent
repetition of the word Yahoo.

I happened to wear my gloves, which the master gray observing, seemed perplexed, discovering
signs of wonder what I had done to my fore-feet. He put his hoof three or four times to them,
as if he would signify, that I should reduce them to their former shape, which I presently
did, pulling off both my gloves, and putting them into my pocket.  This occasioned farther
talk; and I saw the company was pleased with my behaviour, whereof I soon found the good effects.
I was ordered to speak the few words I understood; and while they were at dinner, the master
taught me the names for oats, milk, fire, water, and some others, which I could readily pronounce
after him, having from my youth a great facility in learning languages.

When dinner was done, the master horse took me aside, and by signs and words made me understand
the concern he was in that I had nothing to eat. Oats in their tongue are called hlunnh.  This
word I pronounced two or three times; for although I had refused them at first, yet, upon second
thoughts, I considered that I could contrive to make of them a kind of bread, which might be
sufficient, with milk, to keep me alive, till I could make my escape to some other country,
and to creatures of my own species.  The horse immediately ordered a white mare servant of
his family to bring me a good quantity of oats in a sort of wooden tray. These I heated before
the fire, as well as I could, and rubbed them till the husks came off, which I made a shift
to winnow from the grain.  I ground and beat them between two stones; then took water, and
made them into a paste or cake, which I toasted at the fire and eat warm with milk. It was
at first a very insipid diet, though common enough in many parts of Europe, but grew tolerable
by time; and having been often reduced to hard fare in my life, this was not the first experiment
I had made how easily nature is satisfied.  And I cannot but observe, that I never had one
hours sickness while I stayed in this island.  It is true, I sometimes made a shift to catch
a rabbit, or bird, by springs made of Yahoo’s hairs; and I often gathered wholesome herbs,
which I boiled, and ate as salads with my bread; and now and then, for a rarity, I made a little
butter, and drank the whey.  I was at first at a great loss for salt, but custom soon reconciled
me to the want of it; and I am confident that the frequent use of salt among us is an effect
of luxury, and was first introduced only as a provocative to drink, except where it is necessary
for preserving flesh in long voyages, or in places remote from great markets; for we observe
no animal to be fond of it but man, and as to myself, when I left this country, it was a great
while before I could endure the taste of it in anything that I ate.

This is enough to say upon the subject of my diet, wherewith other travellers fill their books,
as if the readers were personally concerned whether we fare well or ill.  However, it was necessary
to mention this matter, lest the world should think it impossible that I could find sustenance
for three years in such a country, and among such inhabitants.

When it grew towards evening, the master horse ordered a place for me to lodge in; it was but
six yards from the house and separated from the stable of the Yahoos.  Here I got some straw,
and covering myself with my own clothes, slept very sound.  But I was in a short time better
accommodated, as the reader shall know hereafter, when I come to treat more particularly about
my way of living.

CHAPTER III.

The author studies to learn the language.  The Houyhnhnm, his master, assists in teaching him.
The language described.  Several Houyhnhnms of quality come out of curiosity to see the author.
He gives his master a short account of his voyage.

My principal endeavour was to learn the language, which my master (for so I shall henceforth
call him), and his children, and every servant of his house, were desirous to teach me; for
they looked upon it as a prodigy, that a brute animal should discover such marks of a rational
creature.  I pointed to every thing, and inquired the name of it, which I wrote down in my
journal-book when I was alone, and corrected my bad accent by desiring those of the family
to pronounce it often.  In this employment, a sorrel nag, one of the under-servants, was very
ready to assist me.

In speaking, they pronounced through the nose and throat, and their language approaches nearest
to the High-Dutch, or German, of any I know in Europe; but is much more graceful and significant.
The emperor Charles V. made almost the same observation, when he said “that if he were to speak
to his horse, it should be in High-Dutch.”

The curiosity and impatience of my master were so great, that he spent many hours of his leisure
to instruct me.  He was convinced (as he afterwards told me) that I must be a Yahoo; but my
teachableness, civility, and cleanliness, astonished him; which were qualities altogether opposite
to those animals.  He was most perplexed about my clothes, reasoning sometimes with himself,
whether they were a part of my body: for I never pulled them off till the family were asleep,
and got them on before they waked in the morning.  My master was eager to learn “whence I came;
how I acquired those appearances of reason, which I discovered in all my actions; and to know
my story from my own mouth, which he hoped he should soon do by the great proficiency I made
in learning and pronouncing their words and sentences.”  To help my memory, I formed all I
learned into the English alphabet, and writ the words down, with the translations.  This last,
after some time, I ventured to do in my master’s presence.  It cost me much trouble to explain
to him what I was doing; for the inhabitants have not the least idea of books or literature.

In about ten weeks time, I was able to understand most of his questions; and in three months,
could give him some tolerable answers.  He was extremely curious to know “from what part of
the country I came, and how I was taught to imitate a rational creature; because the Yahoos
(whom he saw I exactly resembled in my head, hands, and face, that were only visible), with
some appearance of cunning, and the strongest disposition to mischief, were observed to be
the most unteachable of all brutes.”  I answered, “that I came over the sea, from a far place,
with many others of my own kind, in a great hollow vessel made of the bodies of trees: that
my companions forced me to land on this coast, and then left me to shift for myself.”  It was
with some difficulty, and by the help of many signs, that I brought him to understand me. 
He replied, “that I must needs be mistaken, or that I said the thing which was not;” for they
have no word in their language to express lying or falsehood.  “He knew it was impossible that
there could be a country beyond the sea, or that a parcel of brutes could move a wooden vessel
whither they pleased upon water.  He was sure no Houyhnhnm alive could make such a vessel,
nor would trust Yahoos to manage it.”

The word Houyhnhnm, in their tongue, signifies a horse, and, in its etymology, the perfection
of nature.  I told my master, “that I was at a loss for expression, but would improve as fast
as I could; and hoped, in a short time, I should be able to tell him wonders.”  He was pleased
to direct his own mare, his colt, and foal, and the servants of the family, to take all opportunities
of instructing me; and every day, for two or three hours, he was at the same pains himself.
Several horses and mares of quality in the neighbourhood came often to our house, upon the
report spread of “a wonderful Yahoo, that could speak like a Houyhnhnm, and seemed, in his
words and actions, to discover some glimmerings of reason.”  These delighted to converse with
me: they put many questions, and received such answers as I was able to return.  By all these
advantages I made so great a progress, that, in five months from my arrival I understood whatever
was spoken, and could express myself tolerably well.

The Houyhnhnms, who came to visit my master out of a design of seeing and talking with me,
could hardly believe me to be a right Yahoo, because my body had a different covering from
others of my kind.  They were astonished to observe me without the usual hair or skin, except
on my head, face, and hands; but I discovered that secret to my master upon an accident which
happened about a fortnight before.

I have already told the reader, that every night, when the family were gone to bed, it was
my custom to strip, and cover myself with my clothes. It happened, one morning early, that
my master sent for me by the sorrel nag, who was his valet.  When he came I was fast asleep,
my clothes fallen off on one side, and my shirt above my waist.  I awaked at the noise he made,
and observed him to deliver his message in some disorder; after which he went to my master,
and in a great fright gave him a very confused account of what he had seen.  This I presently
discovered, for, going as soon as I was dressed to pay my attendance upon his honour, he asked
me “the meaning of what his servant had reported, that I was not the same thing when I slept,
as I appeared to be at other times; that his vale assured him, some part of me was white, some
yellow, at least not so white, and some brown.”

I had hitherto concealed the secret of my dress, in order to distinguish myself, as much as
possible, from that cursed race of Yahoos; but now I found it in vain to do so any longer.
Besides, I considered that my clothes and shoes would soon wear out, which already were in
a declining condition, and must be supplied by some contrivance from the hides of Yahoos, or
other brutes; whereby the whole secret would be known.  I therefore told my master, “that in
the country whence I came, those of my kind always covered their bodies with the hairs of certain
animals prepared by art, as well for decency as to avoid the inclemencies of air, both hot
and cold; of which, as to my own person, I would give him immediate conviction, if he pleased
to command me: only desiring his excuse, if I did not expose those parts that nature taught
us to conceal.”  He said, “my discourse was all very strange, but especially the last part;
for he could not understand, why nature should teach us to conceal what nature had given; that
neither himself nor family were ashamed of any parts of their bodies; but, however, I might
do as I pleased.”  Whereupon I first unbuttoned my coat, and pulled it off.  I did the same
with my waistcoat.  I drew off my shoes, stockings, and breeches.  I let my shirt down to my
waist, and drew up the bottom; fastening it like a girdle about my middle, to hide my nakedness.

My master observed the whole performance with great signs of curiosity and admiration.  He
took up all my clothes in his pastern, one piece after another, and examined them diligently;
he then stroked my body very gently, and looked round me several times; after which, he said,
it was plain I must be a perfect Yahoo; but that I differed very much from the rest of my species
in the softness, whiteness, and smoothness of my skin; my want of hair in several parts of
my body; the shape and shortness of my claws behind and before; and my affectation of walking
continually on my two hinder feet.  He desired to see no more; and gave me leave to put on
my clothes again, for I was shuddering with cold.

I expressed my uneasiness at his giving me so often the appellation of Yahoo, an odious animal,
for which I had so utter a hatred and contempt: I begged he would forbear applying that word
to me, and make the same order in his family and among his friends whom he suffered to see
me.  I requested likewise, “that the secret of my having a false covering to my body, might
be known to none but himself, at least as long as my present clothing should last; for as to
what the sorrel nag, his valet, had observed, his honour might command him to conceal it.”

All this my master very graciously consented to; and thus the secret was kept till my clothes
began to wear out, which I was forced to supply by several contrivances that shall hereafter
be mentioned.  In the meantime, he desired “I would go on with my utmost diligence to learn
their language, because he was more astonished at my capacity for speech and reason, than at
the figure of my body, whether it were covered or not;” adding, “that he waited with some impatience
to hear the wonders which I promised to tell him.”

Thenceforward he doubled the pains he had been at to instruct me: he brought me into all company,
and made them treat me with civility; “because,” as he told them, privately, “this would put
me into good humour, and make me more diverting.”

Every day, when I waited on him, beside the trouble he was at in teaching, he would ask me
several questions concerning myself, which I answered as well as I could, and by these means
he had already received some general ideas, though very imperfect.  It would be tedious to
relate the several steps by which I advanced to a more regular conversation; but the first
account I gave of myself in any order and length was to this purpose:

“That I came from a very far country, as I already had attempted to tell him, with about fifty
more of my own species; that we travelled upon the seas in a great hollow vessel made of wood,
and larger than his honour’s house.  I described the ship to him in the best terms I could,
and explained, by the help of my handkerchief displayed, how it was driven forward by the wind.
That upon a quarrel among us, I was set on shore on this coast, where I walked forward, without
knowing whither, till he delivered me from the persecution of those execrable Yahoos.”  He
asked me, “who made the ship, and how it was possible that the Houyhnhnms of my country would
leave it to the management of brutes?”  My answer was, “that I durst proceed no further in
my relation, unless he would give me his word and honour that he would not be offended, and
then I would tell him the wonders I had so often promised.”  He agreed; and I went on by assuring
him, that the ship was made by creatures like myself; who, in all the countries I had travelled,
as well as in my own, were the only governing rational animals; and that upon my arrival hither,
I was as much astonished to see the Houyhnhnms act like rational beings, as he, or his friends,
could be, in finding some marks of reason in a creature he was pleased to call a Yahoo; to
which I owned my resemblance in every part, but could not account for their degenerate and
brutal nature. I said farther, “that if good fortune ever restored me to my native country,
to relate my travels hither, as I resolved to do, everybody would believe, that I said the
thing that was not, that I invented the story out of my own head; and (with all possible respect
to himself, his family, and friends, and under his promise of not being offended) our countrymen
would hardly think it probable that a Houyhnhnm should be the presiding creature of a nation,
and a Yahoo the brute.”

CHAPTER IV.

The Houyhnhnm’s notion of truth and falsehood.  The author’s discourse disapproved by his master.
The author gives a more particular account of himself, and the accidents of his voyage.

My master heard me with great appearances of uneasiness in his countenance; because doubting,
or not believing, are so little known in this country, that the inhabitants cannot tell how
to behave themselves under such circumstances.  And I remember, in frequent discourses with
my master concerning the nature of manhood in other parts of the world, having occasion to
talk of lying and false representation, it was with much difficulty that he comprehended what
I meant, although he had otherwise a most acute judgment.  For he argued thus: “that the use
of speech was to make us understand one another, and to receive information of facts; now,
if any one said the thing which was not, these ends were defeated, because I cannot properly
be said to understand him; and I am so far from receiving information, that he leaves me worse
than in ignorance; for I am led to believe a thing black, when it is white, and short, when
it is long.”  And these were all the notions he had concerning that faculty of lying, so perfectly
well understood, and so universally practised, among human creatures.

To return from this digression.  When I asserted that the Yahoos were the only governing animals
in my country, which my master said was altogether past his conception, he desired to know,
“whether we had Houyhnhnms among us, and what was their employment?”  I told him, “we had great
numbers; that in summer they grazed in the fields, and in winter were kept in houses with hay
and oats, where Yahoo servants were employed to rub their skins smooth, comb their manes, pick
their feet, serve them with food, and make their beds.”  “I understand you well,” said my master:
“it is now very plain, from all you have spoken, that whatever share of reason the Yahoos pretend
to, the Houyhnhnms are your masters; I heartily wish our Yahoos would be so tractable.”  I
begged “his honour would please to excuse me from proceeding any further, because I was very
certain that the account he expected from me would be highly displeasing.”  But he insisted
in commanding me to let him know the best and the worst.  I told him “he should be obeyed.”
I owned “that the Houyhnhnms among us, whom we called horses, were the most generous and comely
animals we had; that they excelled in strength and swiftness; and when they belonged to persons
of quality, were employed in travelling, racing, or drawing chariots; they were treated with
much kindness and care, till they fell into diseases, or became foundered in the feet; but
then they were sold, and used to all kind of drudgery till they died; after which their skins
were stripped, and sold for what they were worth, and their bodies left to be devoured by dogs
and birds of prey.  But the common race of horses had not so good fortune, being kept by farmers
and carriers, and other mean people, who put them to greater labour, and fed them worse.” 
I described, as well as I could, our way of riding; the shape and use of a bridle, a saddle,
a spur, and a whip; of harness and wheels.  I added, “that we fastened plates of a certain
hard substance, called iron, at the bottom of their feet, to preserve their hoofs from being
broken by the stony ways, on which we often travelled.”

My master, after some expressions of great indignation, wondered “how we dared to venture upon
a Houyhnhnm’s back; for he was sure, that the weakest servant in his house would be able to
shake off the strongest Yahoo; or by lying down and rolling on his back, squeeze the brute
to death.”  I answered “that our horses were trained up, from three or four years old, to the
several uses we intended them for; that if any of them proved intolerably vicious, they were
employed for carriages; that they were severely beaten, while they were young, for any mischievous
tricks; that the males, designed for the common use of riding or draught, were generally castrated
about two years after their birth, to take down their spirits, and make them more tame and
gentle; that they were indeed sensible of rewards and punishments; but his honour would please
to consider, that they had not the least tincture of reason, any more than the Yahoos in this
country.”

It put me to the pains of many circumlocutions, to give my master a right idea of what I spoke;
for their language does not abound in variety of words, because their wants and passions are
fewer than among us.  But it is impossible to express his noble resentment at our savage treatment
of the Houyhnhnm race; particularly after I had explained the manner and use of castrating
horses among us, to hinder them from propagating their kind, and to render them more servile.
He said, “if it were possible there could be any country where Yahoos alone were endued with
reason, they certainly must be the governing animal; because reason in time will always prevail
against brutal strength.  But, considering the frame of our bodies, and especially of mine,
he thought no creature of equal bulk was so ill-contrived for employing that reason in the
common offices of life;” whereupon he desired to know “whether those among whom I lived resembled
me, or the Yahoos of his country?”  I assured him, “that I was as well shaped as most of my
age; but the younger, and the females, were much more soft and tender, and the skins of the
latter generally as white as milk.”  He said, “I differed indeed from other Yahoos, being much
more cleanly, and not altogether so deformed; but, in point of real advantage, he thought I
differed for the worse: that my nails were of no use either to my fore or hinder feet; as to
my fore feet, he could not properly call them by that name, for he never observed me to walk
upon them; that they were too soft to bear the ground; that I generally went with them uncovered;
neither was the covering I sometimes wore on them of the same shape, or so strong as that on
my feet behind: that I could not walk with any security, for if either of my hinder feet slipped,
I must inevitably fail.”  He then began to find fault with other parts of my body: “the flatness
of my face, the prominence of my nose, mine eyes placed directly in front, so that I could
not look on either side without turning my head: that I was not able to feed myself, without
lifting one of my fore-feet to my mouth: and therefore nature had placed those joints to answer
that necessity.  He knew not what could be the use of those several clefts and divisions in
my feet behind; that these were too soft to bear the hardness and sharpness of stones, without
a covering made from the skin of some other brute; that my whole body wanted a fence against
heat and cold, which I was forced to put on and off every day, with tediousness and trouble:
and lastly, that he observed every animal in this country naturally to abhor the Yahoos, whom
the weaker avoided, and the stronger drove from them.  So that, supposing us to have the gift
of reason, he could not see how it were possible to cure that natural antipathy, which every
creature discovered against us; nor consequently how we could tame and render them serviceable.
However, he would,” as he said, “debate the matter no farther, because he was more desirous
to know my own story, the country where I was born, and the several actions and events of my
life, before I came hither.”

I assured him, “how extremely desirous I was that he should be satisfied on every point; but
I doubted much, whether it would be possible for me to explain myself on several subjects,
whereof his honour could have no conception; because I saw nothing in his country to which
I could resemble them; that, however, I would do my best, and strive to express myself by similitudes,
humbly desiring his assistance when I wanted proper words;” which he was pleased to promise me.

I said, “my birth was of honest parents, in an island called England; which was remote from
his country, as many days’ journey as the strongest of his honour’s servants could travel in
the annual course of the sun; that I was bred a surgeon, whose trade it is to cure wounds and
hurts in the body, gotten by accident or violence; that my country was governed by a female
man, whom we called queen; that I left it to get riches, whereby I might maintain myself and
family, when I should return; that, in my last voyage, I was commander of the ship, and had
about fifty Yahoos under me, many of which died at sea, and I was forced to supply them by
others picked out from several nations; that our ship was twice in danger of being sunk, the
first time by a great storm, and the second by striking against a rock.”  Here my master interposed,
by asking me, “how I could persuade strangers, out of different countries, to venture with
me, after the losses I had sustained, and the hazards I had run?”  I said, “they were fellows
of desperate fortunes, forced to fly from the places of their birth on account of their poverty
or their crimes.  Some were undone by lawsuits; others spent all they had in drinking, whoring,
and gaming; others fled for treason; many for murder, theft, poisoning, robbery, perjury, forgery,
coining false money, for committing rapes, or sodomy; for flying from their colours, or deserting
to the enemy; and most of them had broken prison; none of these durst return to their native
countries, for fear of being hanged, or of starving in a jail; and therefore they were under
the necessity of seeking a livelihood in other places.”

During this discourse, my master was pleased to interrupt me several times.  I had made use
of many circumlocutions in describing to him the nature of the several crimes for which most
of our crew had been forced to fly their country.  This labour took up several days’ conversation,
before he was able to comprehend me.  He was wholly at a loss to know what could be the use
or necessity of practising those vices.  To clear up which, I endeavoured to give some ideas
of the desire of power and riches; of the terrible effects of lust, intemperance, malice, and
envy. All this I was forced to define and describe by putting cases and making suppositions.
After which, like one whose imagination was struck with something never seen or heard of before,
he would lift up his eyes with amazement and indignation.  Power, government, war, law, punishment,
and a thousand other things, had no terms wherein that language could express them, which made
the difficulty almost insuperable, to give my master any conception of what I meant.  But being
of an excellent understanding, much improved by contemplation and converse, he at last arrived
at a competent knowledge of what human nature, in our parts of the world, is capable to perform,
and desired I would give him some particular account of that land which we call Europe, but
especially of my own country.

CHAPTER V.

The author at his master’s command, informs him of the state of England. The causes of war
among the princes of Europe.  The author begins to explain the English constitution.

The reader may please to observe, that the following extract of many conversations I had with
my master, contains a summary of the most material points which were discoursed at several
times for above two years; his honour often desiring fuller satisfaction, as I farther improved
in the Houyhnhnm tongue.  I laid before him, as well as I could, the whole state of Europe;
I discoursed of trade and manufactures, of arts and sciences; and the answers I gave to all
the questions he made, as they arose upon several subjects, were a fund of conversation not
to be exhausted.  But I shall here only set down the substance of what passed between us concerning
my own country, reducing it in order as well as I can, without any regard to time or other
circumstances, while I strictly adhere to truth.  My only concern is, that I shall hardly be
able to do justice to my master’s arguments and expressions, which must needs suffer by my
want of capacity, as well as by a translation into our barbarous English.

In obedience, therefore, to his honour’s commands, I related to him the Revolution under the
Prince of Orange; the long war with France, entered into by the said prince, and renewed by
his successor, the present queen, wherein the greatest powers of Christendom were engaged,
and which still continued: I computed, at his request, “that about a million of Yahoos might
have been killed in the whole progress of it; and perhaps a hundred or more cities taken, and
five times as many ships burnt or sunk.”

He asked me, “what were the usual causes or motives that made one country go to war with another?”
I answered “they were innumerable; but I should only mention a few of the chief.  Sometimes
the ambition of princes, who never think they have land or people enough to govern; sometimes
the corruption of ministers, who engage their master in a war, in order to stifle or divert
the clamour of the subjects against their evil administration.  Difference in opinions has
cost many millions of lives: for instance, whether flesh be bread, or bread be flesh; whether
the juice of a certain berry be blood or wine; whether whistling be a vice or a virtue; whether
it be better to kiss a post, or throw it into the fire; what is the best colour for a coat,
whether black, white, red, or gray; and whether it should be long or short, narrow or wide,
dirty or clean; with many more.  Neither are any wars so furious and bloody, or of so long
a continuance, as those occasioned by difference in opinion, especially if it be in things
indifferent.

“Sometimes the quarrel between two princes is to decide which of them shall dispossess a third
of his dominions, where neither of them pretend to any right.  Sometimes one prince quarrels
with another for fear the other should quarrel with him.  Sometimes a war is entered upon,
because the enemy is too strong; and sometimes, because he is too weak. Sometimes our neighbours
want the things which we have, or have the things which we want, and we both fight, till they
take ours, or give us theirs.  It is a very justifiable cause of a war, to invade a country
after the people have been wasted by famine, destroyed by pestilence, or embroiled by factions
among themselves.  It is justifiable to enter into war against our nearest ally, when one of
his towns lies convenient for us, or a territory of land, that would render our dominions round
and complete.  If a prince sends forces into a nation, where the people are poor and ignorant,
he may lawfully put half of them to death, and make slaves of the rest, in order to civilize
and reduce them from their barbarous way of living.  It is a very kingly, honourable, and frequent
practice, when one prince desires the assistance of another, to secure him against an invasion,
that the assistant, when he has driven out the invader, should seize on the dominions himself,
and kill, imprison, or banish, the prince he came to relieve.  Alliance by blood, or marriage,
is a frequent cause of war between princes; and the nearer the kindred is, the greater their
disposition to quarrel; poor nations are hungry, and rich nations are proud; and pride and
hunger will ever be at variance.  For these reasons, the trade of a soldier is held the most
honourable of all others; because a soldier is a Yahoo hired to kill, in cold blood, as many
of his own species, who have never offended him, as possibly he can.

“There is likewise a kind of beggarly princes in Europe, not able to make war by themselves,
who hire out their troops to richer nations, for so much a day to each man; of which they keep
three-fourths to themselves, and it is the best part of their maintenance: such are those in
many northern parts of Europe.”

“What you have told me,” said my master, “upon the subject of war, does indeed discover most
admirably the effects of that reason you pretend to: however, it is happy that the shame is
greater than the danger; and that nature has left you utterly incapable of doing much mischief.
For, your mouths lying flat with your faces, you can hardly bite each other to any purpose,
unless by consent.  Then as to the claws upon your feet before and behind, they are so short
and tender, that one of our Yahoos would drive a dozen of yours before him.  And therefore,
in recounting the numbers of those who have been killed in battle, I cannot but think you have
said the thing which is not.”

I could not forbear shaking my head, and smiling a little at his ignorance.  And being no stranger
to the art of war, I gave him a description of cannons, culverins, muskets, carabines, pistols,
bullets, powder, swords, bayonets, battles, sieges, retreats, attacks, undermines, countermines,
bombardments, sea fights, ships sunk with a thousand men, twenty thousand killed on each side,
dying groans, limbs flying in the air, smoke, noise, confusion, trampling to death under horses’
feet, flight, pursuit, victory; fields strewed with carcases, left for food to dogs and wolves
and birds of prey; plundering, stripping, ravishing, burning, and destroying.  And to set forth
the valour of my own dear countrymen, I assured him, “that I had seen them blow up a hundred
enemies at once in a siege, and as many in a ship, and beheld the dead bodies drop down in
pieces from the clouds, to the great diversion of the spectators.”

I was going on to more particulars, when my master commanded me silence. He said, “whoever
understood the nature of Yahoos, might easily believe it possible for so vile an animal to
be capable of every action I had named, if their strength and cunning equalled their malice.
But as my discourse had increased his abhorrence of the whole species, so he found it gave
him a disturbance in his mind to which he was wholly a stranger before.  He thought his ears,
being used to such abominable words, might, by degrees, admit them with less detestation: that
although he hated the Yahoos of this country, yet he no more blamed them for their odious qualities,
than he did a gnnayh (a bird of prey) for its cruelty, or a sharp stone for cutting his hoof.
But when a creature pretending to reason could be capable of such enormities, he dreaded lest
the corruption of that faculty might be worse than brutality itself.  He seemed therefore confident,
that, instead of reason we were only possessed of some quality fitted to increase our natural
vices; as the reflection from a troubled stream returns the image of an ill shapen body, not
only larger but more distorted.”

He added, “that he had heard too much upon the subject of war, both in this and some former
discourses.  There was another point, which a little perplexed him at present.  I had informed
him, that some of our crew left their country on account of being ruined by law; that I had
already explained the meaning of the word; but he was at a loss how it should come to pass,
that the law, which was intended for every man’s preservation, should be any man’s ruin.  Therefore
he desired to be further satisfied what I meant by law, and the dispensers thereof, according
to the present practice in my own country; because he thought nature and reason were sufficient
guides for a reasonable animal, as we pretended to be, in showing us what he ought to do, and
what to avoid.”

I assured his honour, “that the law was a science in which I had not much conversed, further
than by employing advocates, in vain, upon some injustices that had been done me: however,
I would give him all the satisfaction I was able.”

I said, “there was a society of men among us, bred up from their youth in the art of proving,
by words multiplied for the purpose, that white is black, and black is white, according as
they are paid.  To this society all the rest of the people are slaves.  For example, if my
neighbour has a mind to my cow, he has a lawyer to prove that he ought to have my cow from
me.  I must then hire another to defend my right, it being against all rules of law that any
man should be allowed to speak for himself. Now, in this case, I, who am the right owner, lie
under two great disadvantages: first, my lawyer, being practised almost from his cradle in
defending falsehood, is quite out of his element when he would be an advocate for justice,
which is an unnatural office he always attempts with great awkwardness, if not with ill-will.
The second disadvantage is, that my lawyer must proceed with great caution, or else he will
be reprimanded by the judges, and abhorred by his brethren, as one that would lessen the practice
of the law.  And therefore I have but two methods to preserve my cow.  The first is, to gain
over my adversary’s lawyer with a double fee, who will then betray his client by insinuating
that he hath justice on his side.  The second way is for my lawyer to make my cause appear
as unjust as he can, by allowing the cow to belong to my adversary: and this, if it be skilfully
done, will certainly bespeak the favour of the bench.  Now your honour is to know, that these
judges are persons appointed to decide all controversies of property, as well as for the trial
of criminals, and picked out from the most dexterous lawyers, who are grown old or lazy; and
having been biassed all their lives against truth and equity, lie under such a fatal necessity
of favouring fraud, perjury, and oppression, that I have known some of them refuse a large
bribe from the side where justice lay, rather than injure the faculty, by doing any thing unbecoming
their nature or their office.

“It is a maxim among these lawyers that whatever has been done before, may legally be done
again: and therefore they take special care to record all the decisions formerly made against
common justice, and the general reason of mankind.  These, under the name of precedents, they
produce as authorities to justify the most iniquitous opinions; and the judges never fail of
directing accordingly.

“In pleading, they studiously avoid entering into the merits of the cause; but are loud, violent,
and tedious, in dwelling upon all circumstances which are not to the purpose.  For instance,
in the case already mentioned; they never desire to know what claim or title my adversary has
to my cow; but whether the said cow were red or black; her horns long or short; whether the
field I graze her in be round or square; whether she was milked at home or abroad; what diseases
she is subject to, and the like; after which they consult precedents, adjourn the cause from
time to time, and in ten, twenty, or thirty years, come to an issue.

“It is likewise to be observed, that this society has a peculiar cant and jargon of their own,
that no other mortal can understand, and wherein all their laws are written, which they take
special care to multiply; whereby they have wholly confounded the very essence of truth and
falsehood, of right and wrong; so that it will take thirty years to decide, whether the field
left me by my ancestors for six generations belongs to me, or to a stranger three hundred miles
off.

“In the trial of persons accused for crimes against the state, the method is much more short
and commendable: the judge first sends to sound the disposition of those in power, after which
he can easily hang or save a criminal, strictly preserving all due forms of law.”

Here my master interposing, said, “it was a pity, that creatures endowed with such prodigious
abilities of mind, as these lawyers, by the description I gave of them, must certainly be,
were not rather encouraged to be instructors of others in wisdom and knowledge.”  In answer
to which I assured his honour, “that in all points out of their own trade, they were usually
the most ignorant and stupid generation among us, the most despicable in common conversation,
avowed enemies to all knowledge and learning, and equally disposed to pervert the general reason
of mankind in every other subject of discourse as in that of their own profession.”

CHAPTER VI.

A continuation of the state of England under Queen Anne.  The character of a first minister
of state in European courts.

My master was yet wholly at a loss to understand what motives could incite this race of lawyers
to perplex, disquiet, and weary themselves, and engage in a confederacy of injustice, merely
for the sake of injuring their fellow-animals; neither could he comprehend what I meant in
saying, they did it for hire.  Whereupon I was at much pains to describe to him the use of
money, the materials it was made of, and the value of the metals; “that when a Yahoo had got
a great store of this precious substance, he was able to purchase whatever he had a mind to;
the finest clothing, the noblest houses, great tracts of land, the most costly meats and drinks,
and have his choice of the most beautiful females.  Therefore since money alone was able to
perform all these feats, our Yahoos thought they could never have enough of it to spend, or
to save, as they found themselves inclined, from their natural bent either to profusion or
avarice; that the rich man enjoyed the fruit of the poor man’s labour, and the latter were
a thousand to one in proportion to the former; that the bulk of our people were forced to live
miserably, by labouring every day for small wages, to make a few live plentifully.”

I enlarged myself much on these, and many other particulars to the same purpose; but his honour
was still to seek; for he went upon a supposition, that all animals had a title to their share
in the productions of the earth, and especially those who presided over the rest.  Therefore
he desired I would let him know, “what these costly meats were, and how any of us happened
to want them?”  Whereupon I enumerated as many sorts as came into my head, with the various
methods of dressing them, which could not be done without sending vessels by sea to every part
of the world, as well for liquors to drink as for sauces and innumerable other conveniences.
I assured him “that this whole globe of earth must be at least three times gone round before
one of our better female Yahoos could get her breakfast, or a cup to put it in.”  He said “that
must needs be a miserable country which cannot furnish food for its own inhabitants.  But what
he chiefly wondered at was, how such vast tracts of ground as I described should be wholly
without fresh water, and the people put to the necessity of sending over the sea for drink.”
I replied “that England (the dear place of my nativity) was computed to produce three times
the quantity of food more than its inhabitants are able to consume, as well as liquors extracted
from grain, or pressed out of the fruit of certain trees, which made excellent drink, and the
same proportion in every other convenience of life.  But, in order to feed the luxury and intemperance
of the males, and the vanity of the females, we sent away the greatest part of our necessary
things to other countries, whence, in return, we brought the materials of diseases, folly,
and vice, to spend among ourselves.  Hence it follows of necessity, that vast numbers of our
people are compelled to seek their livelihood by begging, robbing, stealing, cheating, pimping,
flattering, suborning, forswearing, forging, gaming, lying, fawning, hectoring, voting, scribbling,
star-gazing, poisoning, whoring, canting, libelling, freethinking, and the like occupations:”
every one of which terms I was at much pains to make him understand.

“That wine was not imported among us from foreign countries to supply the want of water or
other drinks, but because it was a sort of liquid which made us merry by putting us out of
our senses, diverted all melancholy thoughts, begat wild extravagant imaginations in the brain,
raised our hopes and banished our fears, suspended every office of reason for a time, and deprived
us of the use of our limbs, till we fell into a profound sleep; although it must be confessed,
that we always awaked sick and dispirited; and that the use of this liquor filled us with diseases
which made our lives uncomfortable and short.

“But beside all this, the bulk of our people supported themselves by furnishing the necessities
or conveniences of life to the rich and to each other.  For instance, when I am at home, and
dressed as I ought to be, I carry on my body the workmanship of a hundred tradesmen; the building
and furniture of my house employ as many more, and five times the number to adorn my wife.”

I was going on to tell him of another sort of people, who get their livelihood by attending
the sick, having, upon some occasions, informed his honour that many of my crew had died of
diseases.  But here it was with the utmost difficulty that I brought him to apprehend what
I meant. “He could easily conceive, that a Houyhnhnm, grew weak and heavy a few days before
his death, or by some accident might hurt a limb; but that nature, who works all things to
perfection, should suffer any pains to breed in our bodies, he thought impossible, and desired
to know the reason of so unaccountable an evil.”

I told him “we fed on a thousand things which operated contrary to each other; that we ate
when we were not hungry, and drank without the provocation of thirst; that we sat whole nights
drinking strong liquors, without eating a bit, which disposed us to sloth, inflamed our bodies,
and precipitated or prevented digestion; that prostitute female Yahoos acquired a certain malady,
which bred rottenness in the bones of those who fell into their embraces; that this, and many
other diseases, were propagated from father to son; so that great numbers came into the world
with complicated maladies upon them; that it would be endless to give him a catalogue of all
diseases incident to human bodies, for they would not be fewer than five or six hundred, spread
over every limb and joint—in short, every part, external and intestine, having diseases appropriated
to itself.  To remedy which, there was a sort of people bred up among us in the profession,
or pretence, of curing the sick.  And because I had some skill in the faculty, I would, in
gratitude to his honour, let him know the whole mystery and method by which they proceed.

“Their fundamental is, that all diseases arise from repletion; whence they conclude, that a
great evacuation of the body is necessary, either through the natural passage or upwards at
the mouth.  Their next business is from herbs, minerals, gums, oils, shells, salts, juices,
sea-weed, excrements, barks of trees, serpents, toads, frogs, spiders, dead men’s flesh and
bones, birds, beasts, and fishes, to form a composition, for smell and taste, the most abominable,
nauseous, and detestable, they can possibly contrive, which the stomach immediately rejects
with loathing, and this they call a vomit; or else, from the same store-house, with some other
poisonous additions, they command us to take in at the orifice above or below (just as the
physician then happens to be disposed) a medicine equally annoying and disgustful to the bowels;
which, relaxing the belly, drives down all before it; and this they call a purge, or a clyster.
For nature (as the physicians allege) having intended the superior anterior orifice only for
the intromission of solids and liquids, and the inferior posterior for ejection, these artists
ingeniously considering that in all diseases nature is forced out of her seat, therefore, to
replace her in it, the body must be treated in a manner directly contrary, by interchanging
the use of each orifice; forcing solids and liquids in at the anus, and making evacuations
at the mouth.

“But, besides real diseases, we are subject to many that are only imaginary, for which the
physicians have invented imaginary cures; these have their several names, and so have the drugs
that are proper for them; and with these our female Yahoos are always infested.

“One great excellency in this tribe, is their skill at prognostics, wherein they seldom fail;
their predictions in real diseases, when they rise to any degree of malignity, generally portending
death, which is always in their power, when recovery is not: and therefore, upon any unexpected
signs of amendment, after they have pronounced their sentence, rather than be accused as false
prophets, they know how to approve their sagacity to the world, by a seasonable dose.

“They are likewise of special use to husbands and wives who are grown weary of their mates;
to eldest sons, to great ministers of state, and often to princes.”

I had formerly, upon occasion, discoursed with my master upon the nature of government in general,
and particularly of our own excellent constitution, deservedly the wonder and envy of the whole
world.  But having here accidentally mentioned a minister of state, he commanded me, some time
after, to inform him, “what species of Yahoo I particularly meant by that appellation.”

I told him, “that a first or chief minister of state, who was the person I intended to describe,
was the creature wholly exempt from joy and grief, love and hatred, pity and anger; at least,
makes use of no other passions, but a violent desire of wealth, power, and titles; that he
applies his words to all uses, except to the indication of his mind; that he never tells a
truth but with an intent that you should take it for a lie; nor a lie, but with a design that
you should take it for a truth; that those he speaks worst of behind their backs are in the
surest way of preferment; and whenever he begins to praise you to others, or to yourself, you
are from that day forlorn.  The worst mark you can receive is a promise, especially when it
is confirmed with an oath; after which, every wise man retires, and gives over all hopes.

“There are three methods, by which a man may rise to be chief minister. The first is, by knowing
how, with prudence, to dispose of a wife, a daughter, or a sister; the second, by betraying
or undermining his predecessor; and the third is, by a furious zeal, in public assemblies,
against the corruption’s of the court.  But a wise prince would rather choose to employ those
who practise the last of these methods; because such zealots prove always the most obsequious
and subservient to the will and passions of their master.  That these ministers, having all
employments at their disposal, preserve themselves in power, by bribing the majority of a senate
or great council; and at last, by an expedient, called an act of indemnity” (whereof I described
the nature to him), “they secure themselves from after-reckonings, and retire from the public
laden with the spoils of the nation.

“The palace of a chief minister is a seminary to breed up others in his own trade: the pages,
lackeys, and porters, by imitating their master, become ministers of state in their several
districts, and learn to excel in the three principal ingredients, of insolence, lying, and
bribery. Accordingly, they have a subaltern court paid to them by persons of the best rank;
and sometimes by the force of dexterity and impudence, arrive, through several gradations,
to be successors to their lord.

“He is usually governed by a decayed wench, or favourite footman, who are the tunnels through
which all graces are conveyed, and may properly be called, in the last resort, the governors
of the kingdom.”

One day, in discourse, my master, having heard me mention the nobility of my country, was pleased
to make me a compliment which I could not pretend to deserve: “that he was sure I must have
been born of some noble family, because I far exceeded in shape, colour, and cleanliness, all
the Yahoos of his nation, although I seemed to fail in strength and agility, which must be
imputed to my different way of living from those other brutes; and besides I was not only endowed
with the faculty of speech, but likewise with some rudiments of reason, to a degree that, with
all his acquaintance, I passed for a prodigy.”

He made me observe, “that among the Houyhnhnms, the white, the sorrel, and the iron-gray, were
not so exactly shaped as the bay, the dapple-gray, and the black; nor born with equal talents
of mind, or a capacity to improve them; and therefore continued always in the condition of
servants, without ever aspiring to match out of their own race, which in that country would
be reckoned monstrous and unnatural.”

I made his honour my most humble acknowledgments for the good opinion he was pleased to conceive
of me, but assured him at the same time, “that my birth was of the lower sort, having been
born of plain honest parents, who were just able to give me a tolerable education; that nobility,
among us, was altogether a different thing from the idea he had of it; that our young noblemen
are bred from their childhood in idleness and luxury; that, as soon as years will permit, they
consume their vigour, and contract odious diseases among lewd females; and when their fortunes
are almost ruined, they marry some woman of mean birth, disagreeable person, and unsound constitution
(merely for the sake of money), whom they hate and despise.  That the productions of such marriages
are generally scrofulous, rickety, or deformed children; by which means the family seldom continues
above three generations, unless the wife takes care to provide a healthy father, among her
neighbours or domestics, in order to improve and continue the breed.  That a weak diseased
body, a meagre countenance, and sallow complexion, are the true marks of noble blood; and a
healthy robust appearance is so disgraceful in a man of quality, that the world concludes his
real father to have been a groom or a coachman.  The imperfections of his mind run parallel
with those of his body, being a composition of spleen, dullness, ignorance, caprice, sensuality,
and pride.

“Without the consent of this illustrious body, no law can be enacted, repealed, or altered:
and these nobles have likewise the decision of all our possessions, without appeal.” {514}

CHAPTER VII.

The author’s great love of his native country.  His master’s observations upon the constitution
and administration of England, as described by the author, with parallel cases and comparisons.
His master’s observations upon human nature.

The reader may be disposed to wonder how I could prevail on myself to give so free a representation
of my own species, among a race of mortals who are already too apt to conceive the vilest opinion
of humankind, from that entire congruity between me and their Yahoos.  But I must freely confess,
that the many virtues of those excellent quadrupeds, placed in opposite view to human corruptions,
had so far opened my eyes and enlarged my understanding, that I began to view the actions and
passions of man in a very different light, and to think the honour of my own kind not worth
managing; which, besides, it was impossible for me to do, before a person of so acute a judgment
as my master, who daily convinced me of a thousand faults in myself, whereof I had not the
least perception before, and which, with us, would never be numbered even among human infirmities.
I had likewise learned, from his example, an utter detestation of all falsehood or disguise;
and truth appeared so amiable to me, that I determined upon sacrificing every thing to it.

Let me deal so candidly with the reader as to confess that there was yet a much stronger motive
for the freedom I took in my representation of things.  I had not yet been a year in this country
before I contracted such a love and veneration for the inhabitants, that I entered on a firm
resolution never to return to humankind, but to pass the rest of my life among these admirable
Houyhnhnms, in the contemplation and practice of every virtue, where I could have no example
or incitement to vice.  But it was decreed by fortune, my perpetual enemy, that so great a
felicity should not fall to my share.  However, it is now some comfort to reflect, that in
what I said of my countrymen, I extenuated their faults as much as I durst before so strict
an examiner; and upon every article gave as favourable a turn as the matter would bear.  For,
indeed, who is there alive that will not be swayed by his bias and partiality to the place
of his birth?

I have related the substance of several conversations I had with my master during the greatest
part of the time I had the honour to be in his service; but have, indeed, for brevity sake,
omitted much more than is here set down.

When I had answered all his questions, and his curiosity seemed to be fully satisfied, he sent
for me one morning early, and commanded me to sit down at some distance (an honour which he
had never before conferred upon me).  He said, “he had been very seriously considering my whole
story, as far as it related both to myself and my country; that he looked upon us as a sort
of animals, to whose share, by what accident he could not conjecture, some small pittance of
reason had fallen, whereof we made no other use, than by its assistance, to aggravate our natural
corruptions, and to acquire new ones, which nature had not given us; that we disarmed ourselves
of the few abilities she had bestowed; had been very successful in multiplying our original
wants, and seemed to spend our whole lives in vain endeavours to supply them by our own inventions;
that, as to myself, it was manifest I had neither the strength nor agility of a common Yahoo;
that I walked infirmly on my hinder feet; had found out a contrivance to make my claws of no
use or defence, and to remove the hair from my chin, which was intended as a shelter from the
sun and the weather: lastly, that I could neither run with speed, nor climb trees like my brethren,”
as he called them, “the Yahoos in his country.

“That our institutions of government and law were plainly owing to our gross defects in reason,
and by consequence in virtue; because reason alone is sufficient to govern a rational creature;
which was, therefore, a character we had no pretence to challenge, even from the account I
had given of my own people; although he manifestly perceived, that, in order to favour them,
I had concealed many particulars, and often said the thing which was not.

“He was the more confirmed in this opinion, because, he observed, that as I agreed in every
feature of my body with other Yahoos, except where it was to my real disadvantage in point
of strength, speed, and activity, the shortness of my claws, and some other particulars where
nature had no part; so from the representation I had given him of our lives, our manners, and
our actions, he found as near a resemblance in the disposition of our minds.”  He said, “the
Yahoos were known to hate one another, more than they did any different species of animals;
and the reason usually assigned was, the odiousness of their own shapes, which all could see
in the rest, but not in themselves.  He had therefore begun to think it not unwise in us to
cover our bodies, and by that invention conceal many of our deformities from each other, which
would else be hardly supportable.  But he now found he had been mistaken, and that the dissensions
of those brutes in his country were owing to the same cause with ours, as I had described them.
For if,” said he, “you throw among five Yahoos as much food as would be sufficient for fifty,
they will, instead of eating peaceably, fall together by the ears, each single one impatient
to have all to itself; and therefore a servant was usually employed to stand by while they
were feeding abroad, and those kept at home were tied at a distance from each other: that if
a cow died of age or accident, before a Houyhnhnm could secure it for his own Yahoos, those
in the neighbourhood would come in herds to seize it, and then would ensue such a battle as
I had described, with terrible wounds made by their claws on both sides, although they seldom
were able to kill one another, for want of such convenient instruments of death as we had invented.
At other times, the like battles have been fought between the Yahoos of several neighbourhoods,
without any visible cause; those of one district watching all opportunities to surprise the
next, before they are prepared.  But if they find their project has miscarried, they return
home, and, for want of enemies, engage in what I call a civil war among themselves.

“That in some fields of his country there are certain shining stones of several colours, whereof
the Yahoos are violently fond: and when part of these stones is fixed in the earth, as it sometimes
happens, they will dig with their claws for whole days to get them out; then carry them away,
and hide them by heaps in their kennels; but still looking round with great caution, for fear
their comrades should find out their treasure.”  My master said, “he could never discover the
reason of this unnatural appetite, or how these stones could be of any use to a Yahoo; but
now he believed it might proceed from the same principle of avarice which I had ascribed to
mankind.  That he had once, by way of experiment, privately removed a heap of these stones
from the place where one of his Yahoos had buried it; whereupon the sordid animal, missing
his treasure, by his loud lamenting brought the whole herd to the place, there miserably howled,
then fell to biting and tearing the rest, began to pine away, would neither eat, nor sleep,
nor work, till he ordered a servant privately to convey the stones into the same hole, and
hide them as before; which, when his Yahoo had found, he presently recovered his spirits and
good humour, but took good care to remove them to a better hiding place, and has ever since
been a very serviceable brute.”

My master further assured me, which I also observed myself, “that in the fields where the shining
stones abound, the fiercest and most frequent battles are fought, occasioned by perpetual inroads
of the neighbouring Yahoos.”

He said, “it was common, when two Yahoos discovered such a stone in a field, and were contending
which of them should be the proprietor, a third would take the advantage, and carry it away
from them both;” which my master would needs contend to have some kind of resemblance with
our suits at law; wherein I thought it for our credit not to undeceive him; since the decision
he mentioned was much more equitable than many decrees among us; because the plaintiff and
defendant there lost nothing beside the stone they contended for: whereas our courts of equity
would never have dismissed the cause, while either of them had any thing left.

My master, continuing his discourse, said, “there was nothing that rendered the Yahoos more
odious, than their undistinguishing appetite to devour every thing that came in their way,
whether herbs, roots, berries, the corrupted flesh of animals, or all mingled together: and
it was peculiar in their temper, that they were fonder of what they could get by rapine or
stealth, at a greater distance, than much better food provided for them at home.  If their
prey held out, they would eat till they were ready to burst; after which, nature had pointed
out to them a certain root that gave them a general evacuation.

“There was also another kind of root, very juicy, but somewhat rare and difficult to be found,
which the Yahoos sought for with much eagerness, and would suck it with great delight; it produced
in them the same effects that wine has upon us.  It would make them sometimes hug, and sometimes
tear one another; they would howl, and grin, and chatter, and reel, and tumble, and then fall
asleep in the mud.”

I did indeed observe that the Yahoos were the only animals in this country subject to any diseases;
which, however, were much fewer than horses have among us, and contracted, not by any ill-treatment
they meet with, but by the nastiness and greediness of that sordid brute.  Neither has their
language any more than a general appellation for those maladies, which is borrowed from the
name of the beast, and called hnea-yahoo, or Yahoo’s evil; and the cure prescribed is a mixture
of their own dung and urine, forcibly put down the Yahoo’s throat.  This I have since often
known to have been taken with success, and do here freely recommend it to my countrymen for
the public good, as an admirable specific against all diseases produced by repletion.

“As to learning, government, arts, manufactures, and the like,” my master confessed, “he could
find little or no resemblance between the Yahoos of that country and those in ours; for he
only meant to observe what parity there was in our natures.  He had heard, indeed, some curious
Houyhnhnms observe, that in most herds there was a sort of ruling Yahoo (as among us there
is generally some leading or principal stag in a park), who was always more deformed in body,
and mischievous in disposition, than any of the rest; that this leader had usually a favourite
as like himself as he could get, whose employment was to lick his master’s feet and posteriors,
and drive the female Yahoos to his kennel; for which he was now and then rewarded with a piece
of ass’s flesh.  This favourite is hated by the whole herd, and therefore, to protect himself,
keeps always near the person of his leader.  He usually continues in office till a worse can
be found; but the very moment he is discarded, his successor, at the head of all the Yahoos
in that district, young and old, male and female, come in a body, and discharge their excrements
upon him from head to foot.  But how far this might be applicable to our courts, and favourites,
and ministers of state, my master said I could best determine.”

I durst make no return to this malicious insinuation, which debased human understanding below
the sagacity of a common hound, who has judgment enough to distinguish and follow the cry of
the ablest dog in the pack, without being ever mistaken.

My master told me, “there were some qualities remarkable in the Yahoos, which he had not observed
me to mention, or at least very slightly, in the accounts I had given of humankind.”  He said,
“those animals, like other brutes, had their females in common; but in this they differed,
that the she Yahoo would admit the males while she was pregnant; and that the hes would quarrel
and fight with the females, as fiercely as with each other; both which practices were such
degrees of infamous brutality, as no other sensitive creature ever arrived at.

“Another thing he wondered at in the Yahoos, was their strange disposition to nastiness and
dirt; whereas there appears to be a natural love of cleanliness in all other animals.”  As
to the two former accusations, I was glad to let them pass without any reply, because I had
not a word to offer upon them in defence of my species, which otherwise I certainly had done
from my own inclinations.  But I could have easily vindicated humankind from the imputation
of singularity upon the last article, if there had been any swine in that country (as unluckily
for me there were not), which, although it may be a sweeter quadruped than a Yahoo, cannot,
I humbly conceive, in justice, pretend to more cleanliness; and so his honour himself must
have owned, if he had seen their filthy way of feeding, and their custom of wallowing and sleeping
in the mud.

My master likewise mentioned another quality which his servants had discovered in several Yahoos,
and to him was wholly unaccountable.  He said, “a fancy would sometimes take a Yahoo to retire
into a corner, to lie down, and howl, and groan, and spurn away all that came near him, although
he were young and fat, wanted neither food nor water, nor did the servant imagine what could
possibly ail him.  And the only remedy they found was, to set him to hard work, after which
he would infallibly come to himself.”  To this I was silent out of partiality to my own kind;
yet here I could plainly discover the true seeds of spleen, which only seizes on the lazy,
the luxurious, and the rich; who, if they were forced to undergo the same regimen, I would
undertake for the cure.

His honour had further observed, “that a female Yahoo would often stand behind a bank or a
bush, to gaze on the young males passing by, and then appear, and hide, using many antic gestures
and grimaces, at which time it was observed that she had a most offensive smell; and when any
of the males advanced, would slowly retire, looking often back, and with a counterfeit show
of fear, run off into some convenient place, where she knew the male would follow her.

“At other times, if a female stranger came among them, three or four of her own sex would get
about her, and stare, and chatter, and grin, and smell her all over; and then turn off with
gestures, that seemed to express contempt and disdain.”

Perhaps my master might refine a little in these speculations, which he had drawn from what
he observed himself, or had been told him by others; however, I could not reflect without some
amazement, and much sorrow, that the rudiments of lewdness, coquetry, censure, and scandal,
should have place by instinct in womankind.

I expected every moment that my master would accuse the Yahoos of those unnatural appetites
in both sexes, so common among us.  But nature, it seems, has not been so expert a school-mistress;
and these politer pleasures are entirely the productions of art and reason on our side of the
globe.

CHAPTER VIII.

The author relates several particulars of the Yahoos.  The great virtues of the Houyhnhnms.
The education and exercise of their youth. Their general assembly.

As I ought to have understood human nature much better than I supposed it possible for my master
to do, so it was easy to apply the character he gave of the Yahoos to myself and my countrymen;
and I believed I could yet make further discoveries, from my own observation.  I therefore
often begged his honour to let me go among the herds of Yahoos in the neighbourhood; to which
he always very graciously consented, being perfectly convinced that the hatred I bore these
brutes would never suffer me to be corrupted by them; and his honour ordered one of his servants,
a strong sorrel nag, very honest and good-natured, to be my guard; without whose protection
I durst not undertake such adventures. For I have already told the reader how much I was pestered
by these odious animals, upon my first arrival; and I afterwards failed very narrowly, three
or four times, of falling into their clutches, when I happened to stray at any distance without
my hanger.  And I have reason to believe they had some imagination that I was of their own
species, which I often assisted myself by stripping up my sleeves, and showing my naked arms
and breasts in their sight, when my protector was with me.  At which times they would approach
as near as they durst, and imitate my actions after the manner of monkeys, but ever with great
signs of hatred; as a tame jackdaw with cap and stockings is always persecuted by the wild
ones, when he happens to be got among them.

They are prodigiously nimble from their infancy.  However, I once caught a young male of three
years old, and endeavoured, by all marks of tenderness, to make it quiet; but the little imp
fell a squalling, and scratching, and biting with such violence, that I was forced to let it
go; and it was high time, for a whole troop of old ones came about us at the noise, but finding
the cub was safe (for away it ran), and my sorrel nag being by, they durst not venture near
us.  I observed the young animal’s flesh to smell very rank, and the stink was somewhat between
a weasel and a fox, but much more disagreeable.  I forgot another circumstance (and perhaps
I might have the reader’s pardon if it were wholly omitted), that while I held the odious vermin
in my hands, it voided its filthy excrements of a yellow liquid substance all over my clothes;
but by good fortune there was a small brook hard by, where I washed myself as clean as I could;
although I durst not come into my master’s presence until I were sufficiently aired.

By what I could discover, the Yahoos appear to be the most unteachable of all animals: their
capacity never reaching higher than to draw or carry burdens.  Yet I am of opinion, this defect
arises chiefly from a perverse, restive disposition; for they are cunning, malicious, treacherous,
and revengeful.  They are strong and hardy, but of a cowardly spirit, and, by consequence,
insolent, abject, and cruel.  It is observed, that the red haired of both sexes are more libidinous
and mischievous than the rest, whom yet they much exceed in strength and activity.

The Houyhnhnms keep the Yahoos for present use in huts not far from the house; but the rest
are sent abroad to certain fields, where they dig up roots, eat several kinds of herbs, and
search about for carrion, or sometimes catch weasels and luhimuhs (a sort of wild rat), which
they greedily devour.  Nature has taught them to dig deep holes with their nails on the side
of a rising ground, wherein they lie by themselves; only the kennels of the females are larger,
sufficient to hold two or three cubs.

They swim from their infancy like frogs, and are able to continue long under water, where they
often take fish, which the females carry home to their young.  And, upon this occasion, I hope
the reader will pardon my relating an odd adventure.

Being one day abroad with my protector the sorrel nag, and the weather exceeding hot, I entreated
him to let me bathe in a river that was near. He consented, and I immediately stripped myself
stark naked, and went down softly into the stream.  It happened that a young female Yahoo,
standing behind a bank, saw the whole proceeding, and inflamed by desire, as the nag and I
conjectured, came running with all speed, and leaped into the water, within five yards of the
place where I bathed.  I was never in my life so terribly frightened.  The nag was grazing
at some distance, not suspecting any harm.  She embraced me after a most fulsome manner.  I
roared as loud as I could, and the nag came galloping towards me, whereupon she quitted her
grasp, with the utmost reluctancy, and leaped upon the opposite bank, where she stood gazing
and howling all the time I was putting on my clothes.

This was a matter of diversion to my master and his family, as well as of mortification to
myself.  For now I could no longer deny that I was a real Yahoo in every limb and feature,
since the females had a natural propensity to me, as one of their own species.  Neither was
the hair of this brute of a red colour (which might have been some excuse for an appetite a
little irregular), but black as a sloe, and her countenance did not make an appearance altogether
so hideous as the rest of her kind; for I think she could not be above eleven years old.

Having lived three years in this country, the reader, I suppose, will expect that I should,
like other travellers, give him some account of the manners and customs of its inhabitants,
which it was indeed my principal study to learn.

As these noble Houyhnhnms are endowed by nature with a general disposition to all virtues,
and have no conceptions or ideas of what is evil in a rational creature, so their grand maxim
is, to cultivate reason, and to be wholly governed by it.  Neither is reason among them a point
problematical, as with us, where men can argue with plausibility on both sides of the question,
but strikes you with immediate conviction; as it must needs do, where it is not mingled, obscured,
or discoloured, by passion and interest.  I remember it was with extreme difficulty that I
could bring my master to understand the meaning of the word opinion, or how a point could be
disputable; because reason taught us to affirm or deny only where we are certain; and beyond
our knowledge we cannot do either.  So that controversies, wranglings, disputes, and positiveness,
in false or dubious propositions, are evils unknown among the Houyhnhnms.  In the like manner,
when I used to explain to him our several systems of natural philosophy, he would laugh, “that
a creature pretending to reason, should value itself upon the knowledge of other people’s conjectures,
and in things where that knowledge, if it were certain, could be of no use.”  Wherein he agreed
entirely with the sentiments of Socrates, as Plato delivers them; which I mention as the highest
honour I can do that prince of philosophers.  I have often since reflected, what destruction
such doctrine would make in the libraries of Europe; and how many paths of fame would be then
shut up in the learned world.

Friendship and benevolence are the two principal virtues among the Houyhnhnms; and these not
confined to particular objects, but universal to the whole race; for a stranger from the remotest
part is equally treated with the nearest neighbour, and wherever he goes, looks upon himself
as at home.  They preserve decency and civility in the highest degrees, but are altogether
ignorant of ceremony.  They have no fondness for their colts or foals, but the care they take
in educating them proceeds entirely from the dictates of reason.  And I observed my master
to show the same affection to his neighbour’s issue, that he had for his own.  They will have
it that nature teaches them to love the whole species, and it is reason only that makes a distinction
of persons, where there is a superior degree of virtue.

When the matron Houyhnhnms have produced one of each sex, they no longer accompany with their
consorts, except they lose one of their issue by some casualty, which very seldom happens;
but in such a case they meet again; or when the like accident befalls a person whose wife is
past bearing, some other couple bestow on him one of their own colts, and then go together
again until the mother is pregnant.  This caution is necessary, to prevent the country from
being overburdened with numbers. But the race of inferior Houyhnhnms, bred up to be servants,
is not so strictly limited upon this article: these are allowed to produce three of each sex,
to be domestics in the noble families.

In their marriages, they are exactly careful to choose such colours as will not make any disagreeable
mixture in the breed.  Strength is chiefly valued in the male, and comeliness in the female;
not upon the account of love, but to preserve the race from degenerating; for where a female
happens to excel in strength, a consort is chosen, with regard to comeliness.

Courtship, love, presents, jointures, settlements have no place in their thoughts, or terms
whereby to express them in their language.  The young couple meet, and are joined, merely because
it is the determination of their parents and friends; it is what they see done every day, and
they look upon it as one of the necessary actions of a reasonable being.  But the violation
of marriage, or any other unchastity, was never heard of; and the married pair pass their lives
with the same friendship and mutual benevolence, that they bear to all others of the same species
who come in their way, without jealousy, fondness, quarrelling, or discontent.

In educating the youth of both sexes, their method is admirable, and highly deserves our imitation.
These are not suffered to taste a grain of oats, except upon certain days, till eighteen years
old; nor milk, but very rarely; and in summer they graze two hours in the morning, and as many
in the evening, which their parents likewise observe; but the servants are not allowed above
half that time, and a great part of their grass is brought home, which they eat at the most
convenient hours, when they can be best spared from work.

Temperance, industry, exercise, and cleanliness, are the lessons equally enjoined to the young
ones of both sexes: and my master thought it monstrous in us, to give the females a different
kind of education from the males, except in some articles of domestic management; whereby,
as he truly observed, one half of our natives were good for nothing but bringing children into
the world; and to trust the care of our children to such useless animals, he said, was yet
a greater instance of brutality.

But the Houyhnhnms train up their youth to strength, speed, and hardiness, by exercising them
in running races up and down steep hills, and over hard stony grounds; and when they are all
in a sweat, they are ordered to leap over head and ears into a pond or river.  Four times a
year the youth of a certain district meet to show their proficiency in running and leaping,
and other feats of strength and agility; where the victor is rewarded with a song in his or
her praise.  On this festival, the servants drive a herd of Yahoos into the field, laden with
hay, and oats, and milk, for a repast to the Houyhnhnms; after which, these brutes are immediately
driven back again, for fear of being noisome to the assembly.

Every fourth year, at the vernal equinox, there is a representative council of the whole nation,
which meets in a plain about twenty miles from our house, and continues about five or six days.
Here they inquire into the state and condition of the several districts; whether they abound
or be deficient in hay or oats, or cows, or Yahoos; and wherever there is any want (which is
but seldom) it is immediately supplied by unanimous consent and contribution.  Here likewise
the regulation of children is settled: as for instance, if a Houyhnhnm has two males, he changes
one of them with another that has two females; and when a child has been lost by any casualty,
where the mother is past breeding, it is determined what family in the district shall breed
another to supply the loss.

CHAPTER IX.

A grand debate at the general assembly of the Houyhnhnms, and how it was determined.  The learning
of the Houyhnhnms.  Their buildings. Their manner of burials.  The defectiveness of their language.

One of these grand assemblies was held in my time, about three months before my departure,
whither my master went as the representative of our district.  In this council was resumed
their old debate, and indeed the only debate that ever happened in their country; whereof my
master, after his return, give me a very particular account.

The question to be debated was, “whether the Yahoos should be exterminated from the face of
the earth?”  One of the members for the affirmative offered several arguments of great strength
and weight, alleging, “that as the Yahoos were the most filthy, noisome, and deformed animals
which nature ever produced, so they were the most restive and indocible, mischievous and malicious;
they would privately suck the teats of the Houyhnhnms’ cows, kill and devour their cats, trample
down their oats and grass, if they were not continually watched, and commit a thousand other
extravagancies.”  He took notice of a general tradition, “that Yahoos had not been always in
their country; but that many ages ago, two of these brutes appeared together upon a mountain;
whether produced by the heat of the sun upon corrupted mud and slime, or from the ooze and
froth of the sea, was never known; that these Yahoos engendered, and their brood, in a short
time, grew so numerous as to overrun and infest the whole nation; that the Houyhnhnms, to get
rid of this evil, made a general hunting, and at last enclosed the whole herd; and destroying
the elder, every Houyhnhnm kept two young ones in a kennel, and brought them to such a degree
of tameness, as an animal, so savage by nature, can be capable of acquiring, using them for
draught and carriage; that there seemed to be much truth in this tradition, and that those
creatures could not be yinhniamshy (or aborigines of the land), because of the violent hatred
the Houyhnhnms, as well as all other animals, bore them, which, although their evil disposition
sufficiently deserved, could never have arrived at so high a degree if they had been aborigines,
or else they would have long since been rooted out; that the inhabitants, taking a fancy to
use the service of the Yahoos, had, very imprudently, neglected to cultivate the breed of asses,
which are a comely animal, easily kept, more tame and orderly, without any offensive smell,
strong enough for labour, although they yield to the other in agility of body, and if their
braying be no agreeable sound, it is far preferable to the horrible howlings of the Yahoos.”

Several others declared their sentiments to the same purpose, when my master proposed an expedient
to the assembly, whereof he had indeed borrowed the hint from me.  “He approved of the tradition
mentioned by the honourable member who spoke before, and affirmed, that the two Yahoos said
to be seen first among them, had been driven thither over the sea; that coming to land, and
being forsaken by their companions, they retired to the mountains, and degenerating by degrees,
became in process of time much more savage than those of their own species in the country whence
these two originals came.  The reason of this assertion was, that he had now in his possession
a certain wonderful Yahoo (meaning myself) which most of them had heard of, and many of them
had seen.  He then related to them how he first found me; that my body was all covered with
an artificial composure of the skins and hairs of other animals; that I spoke in a language
of my own, and had thoroughly learned theirs; that I had related to him the accidents which
brought me thither; that when he saw me without my covering, I was an exact Yahoo in every
part, only of a whiter colour, less hairy, and with shorter claws.  He added, how I had endeavoured
to persuade him, that in my own and other countries, the Yahoos acted as the governing, rational
animal, and held the Houyhnhnms in servitude; that he observed in me all the qualities of a
Yahoo, only a little more civilized by some tincture of reason, which, however, was in a degree
as far inferior to the Houyhnhnm race, as the Yahoos of their country were to me; that, among
other things, I mentioned a custom we had of castrating Houyhnhnms when they were young, in
order to render them tame; that the operation was easy and safe; that it was no shame to learn
wisdom from brutes, as industry is taught by the ant, and building by the swallow (for so I
translate the word lyhannh, although it be a much larger fowl); that this invention might be
practised upon the younger Yahoos here, which besides rendering them tractable and fitter for
use, would in an age put an end to the whole species, without destroying life; that in the
mean time the Houyhnhnms should be exhorted to cultivate the breed of asses, which, as they
are in all respects more valuable brutes, so they have this advantage, to be fit for service
at five years old, which the others are not till twelve.”

This was all my master thought fit to tell me, at that time, of what passed in the grand council.
But he was pleased to conceal one particular, which related personally to myself, whereof I
soon felt the unhappy effect, as the reader will know in its proper place, and whence I date
all the succeeding misfortunes of my life.

The Houyhnhnms have no letters, and consequently their knowledge is all traditional.  But there
happening few events of any moment among a people so well united, naturally disposed to every
virtue, wholly governed by reason, and cut off from all commerce with other nations, the historical
part is easily preserved without burdening their memories.  I have already observed that they
are subject to no diseases, and therefore can have no need of physicians.  However, they have
excellent medicines, composed of herbs, to cure accidental bruises and cuts in the pastern
or frog of the foot, by sharp stones, as well as other maims and hurts in the several parts
of the body.

They calculate the year by the revolution of the sun and moon, but use no subdivisions into
weeks.  They are well enough acquainted with the motions of those two luminaries, and understand
the nature of eclipses; and this is the utmost progress of their astronomy.

In poetry, they must be allowed to excel all other mortals; wherein the justness of their similes,
and the minuteness as well as exactness of their descriptions, are indeed inimitable.  Their
verses abound very much in both of these, and usually contain either some exalted notions of
friendship and benevolence or the praises of those who were victors in races and other bodily
exercises.  Their buildings, although very rude and simple, are not inconvenient, but well
contrived to defend them from all injuries of cold and heat.  They have a kind of tree, which
at forty years old loosens in the root, and falls with the first storm: it grows very straight,
and being pointed like stakes with a sharp stone (for the Houyhnhnms know not the use of iron),
they stick them erect in the ground, about ten inches asunder, and then weave in oat straw,
or sometimes wattles, between them.  The roof is made after the same manner, and so are the doors.

The Houyhnhnms use the hollow part, between the pastern and the hoof of their fore-foot, as
we do our hands, and this with greater dexterity than I could at first imagine.  I have seen
a white mare of our family thread a needle (which I lent her on purpose) with that joint. 
They milk their cows, reap their oats, and do all the work which requires hands, in the same
manner.  They have a kind of hard flints, which, by grinding against other stones, they form
into instruments, that serve instead of wedges, axes, and hammers.  With tools made of these
flints, they likewise cut their hay, and reap their oats, which there grow naturally in several
fields; the Yahoos draw home the sheaves in carriages, and the servants tread them in certain
covered huts to get out the grain, which is kept in stores.  They make a rude kind of earthen
and wooden vessels, and bake the former in the sun.

