The marquess, terrified, though he scarcely knew why, endeavoured to put a fair face upon the
matter, and to laugh off the fears of his visiter, telling him he would rise himself, and spend
the rest of the night with him in his room; but the stranger begged that he would rather allow
him to occupy a couch in the adjoining room; and as soon as morning broke, he saddled his horse,
took his leave, and departed. This occurrence, which occasioned much notice, made so unpleasant
an impression upon intending purchasers, that not another inquiry was made; and at last, even
the servants in the house becoming possessed with the notion that there was something dreadful
in the room, the marquess, with the view of setting the report to rest, determined to investigate
the matter himself next night. Accordingly, in the twilight, he caused his bed to be brought
to the apartment, and waited, without sleeping, the approach of midnight. But what was his
consternation, when, on the stroke of midnight, he actually heard some inconceivable noise
in the apartment, as if some person had risen up from among straw, which rustled beneath them,
walked slowly over the floor, and sank, sighing and groaning, behind the chimney. When he came
down the next morning, the marchesa asked him how the investigation had gone on; and he, after
gazing about him with wondering glances, and bolting the door, told her the story of the chamber's
being haunted was true. She was terrified out of her senses; but begged him, before making
any public disclosure, once more to make the experiment coolly in her company. Accompanied
by a trusty servant, they accordingly repeated their visit next night, and again heard, as
the marquess had done before, the same ghostly and inconceivable noise; and nothing but the
anxious wish to get rid of the castle, cost what it would, enabled them to suppress their terrors
in presence of the servant, and to ascribe the sound to some accidental cause. On the evening
of the third day, when both, determined to probe the matter to the bottom, were ascending with
beating hearts the stair leading to the stranger's apartment, it chanced that the house dog,
who had been let loose from the chain, was lying directly before the door of the room; and,
willing perhaps to have the company of any other living thing in the mysterious apartment,
they took the dog into the room along with them. The husband and wife seated themselves on
the couch--the marquess with his sword and pistols beside him; and while they endeavoured,
the best way they could, to amuse themselves with conversation, the dog, cowering down on the
floor at their feet, fell asleep. Again, with the stroke of midnight, the noise was renewed;--something,
though what they could not discover, raised itself us if with crutches in the corner; the straw
rustled as before. At the sound of the first foot-fall, the dog awoke, roused itself, pricked
up its ears, and growling and barking as if some person were advancing towards him, retreated
in the direction of the chimney. At this sight, the marchioness rushed out of the room, her
hair standing on end; and while the marquess seized his sword, exclaimed "Who is there?" and
receiving no answer, thrust like a madman in all directions, she hastily packed up a few articles
of dress, and made the best of her way towards the town. Scarcely, however, had she proceeded
a few steps, when she discovered that the castle was on fire. The marquess had, in his distraction,
overturned the tapers, and the room was instantly in flames. Every effort was made to save
the unhappy nobleman, but in vain: he perished in the utmost tortures, and his bones, as the
traveller may be aware, still lie where they were collected by the neighbouring peasants--in
the corner of the apartment from which he had expelled the beggar woman of Locarno.--Edinburgh
Literary Journal and Gazette.

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF DISCOVERY.

       *       *       *       *       *

HYDROSTATICS AND PNEUMATICS.

(Cabinet Cyclopædia, vol. xvii.)

This volume is in every respect worthy of standing beside the luminous Discourse on the Study
of Natural Philosophy, by Mr. Herschel. It is just in the method that we wish to see all branches
of science treated, and it is the only means of rendering such knowledge familiar; and this
has only to be known to become popular. We understood this to be the aim of the Cabinet Cyclopædia
at its outset, and the scientific volumes already published are an earnest of the Editor's
zeal and success. The best method of illustrating this recommendation, is to seize from the
volume a few familiar effects whose causes are imperfectly understood, and thus to show how
closely the spread of science is identified with civilization and the common comforts of social
life:--

Deceptive appearance of Waves

If we observe the waves continually approaching the shore, we must be convinced that this apparent
motion is not one in which the water has any share: for were it so, the waters of the sea would
soon be heaped upon the shores, and would inundate the adjacent country; but so far from the
waters partaking of the apparent motion of the waves in approaching the shore, this motion
of the waves continues, even when the waters are retiring. If we observe a flat strand when
the tide is ebbing, we shall still find the waves moving towards the shore.

Ornamental Fountain Clocks.

It is the same cause (that which produces the deceptive appearance of a progressive motion
in the waves of the sea) which makes a revolving cork-screw, held in a fixed position, seem
to be advancing in that direction in which it would actually advance if the worm were passing
through a cork. That point which is nearest to the eye, and which corresponds to the crest
of the wave in the former example, continually occupies a different point of the worm, and
continually advances towards its extremity.--This property has lately been prettily applied
in ornamental clocks. A piece of glass, twisted so that its surface acquires a ridge in the
form of a screw, is inserted in the mouth of some figure designed to represent a fountain.
One end of the glass is attached to the axle of a wheel, which the clock-work keeps in a state
of constant rotation, and the other end is concealed in a vessel, designed to represent a reservoir
or basin. The continual rotation of the twisted glass produces the appearance of a progressive
motion, as already explained, and a stream of water continually appears to flow from the fountain
into the basin.

Facility of Swimming.

The lighter the body is in relation to its magnitude, the more easily will it float, and a
greater proportion of the head will remain above the surface. As the weight of the human body
does not always bear the same proportion to its bulk, the skill of the swimmer is not always
to be estimated by his success; some of the constituent parts of the human body are heavier,
while others are lighter, bulk for bulk, than water. Those persons in whom the quantity of
the latter bear a greater proportion to the former, will swim with a proportionate facility.

Common Mistake in Cooling Wine.

