The account given by Collins, is a valuable delineation of society when set free from moral
influence, and proves how little simple coercion can check a general disposition to crime.
So rare was reformation, that a single instance is mentioned with triumph: among the few who
redeemed that settlement from utter dishonor, was George Barrington, celebrated for his dexterity
as a pickpocket, and for his pathos at the bar; who robbed a prince with the grace of a courtier,
and was the beau ideal of swindlers. He was distinguished in New South Wales for his integrity
in the office of chief constable, and his diligence as a farmer. He died regretted, in the
year this dependency was colonised.[98]

Governor Hunter authorised the opening of a theatre at Sydney. The principal actors were convicts,
and in default of a chamberlain, they were threatened, for a second offence, with the penal
settlement. The price of admission, one shilling, was paid in meal or rum, taken at the door!
Many had performed the part of pickpocket in a London play-house, but at Sydney this was more
difficult; yet they were not discouraged: they saw by a glance at the benches what houses were
left unprotected, and proceeded to rob them. The motto of the actors was modest:--"We cannot
command success; but we will endeavour to deserve it." Their first play was The Revenge: the
first prologue, characteristic both of the actors and the audience. The aptitude of one of
these couplets, has transferred it into a proverb; but it is worth seeing in its connexion,
as a representation of the real sentiments with which violations of the law were remembered.[99]

PROLOGUE.

    From distant climes, o'er wide-spread seas we come,
    Though not with much eclât, or beat of drum,
    True patriots we, for be it understood,
    We left our country, for our country's good;
    No private views disgraced our generous zeal,
    What urged our travels, was our country's weal.
      But, you inquire, what could our breast inflame,
    With this new passion for Theatric fame?
    He, who to midnight ladders is no stranger,
    You'll own will make an admirable Ranger.
    To seek Macheath we have not far to roam,
    And sure in Filch I shall be quite at home.
    As oft on Gadshill we have ta'en our stand,
    When 'twas so dark you could not see your hand,
    From durance vile our precious selves to keep,
    We often had recourse to th' flying leap;
    To a black face have sometimes ow'd escape,
    And Hounslow Heath has proved the worth of crape.
      But how, you ask, can we e'er hope to soar,
    Above these scenes, and rise to Tragic lore?

    Too oft, alas, we've forc'd th' unwilling tear,
    And petrified the heart with real fear.
    Macbeth, a harvest of applause will reap,
    For some of us, I fear, have murder'd sleep;
    His lady, too, with grace will sleep and talk,
    Our females have been us'd at night to walk.
      Sometimes, indeed, so various is our art,
    An actor may improve and mend his part:
    "Give me a horse," bawls Richard, like a drone,
    We'll find a man would help himself to one.
    Grant us your favor, put us to the test,
    To gain your smiles we'll do our very best;
    And, without dread of future Turnkey Lockits,
    Thus, in an honest way, still pick your pockets.[100]

The connection between ardent spirits and the early disorders of our penal colonies is patent
at every stage of their progress. Then the habits of the navy were intemperate; rum was considered
the great parent of valor. The founders of our colonies never entertained a suspicion that
society could exist without its aid. Thus the first fleet, in their progress, touched at a
port to take in a large supply, which proved of the most deleterious kind:[101] every vessel
was deeply laden with the same commodity. The limitation of wholesale dealing to the officers,
was not to restrain its consumption, but to monopolise its profits. The advantage of its distribution,
as an incitement to labor, atoned for the moral ravages it spread: for this reward alone, would
the prisoners yield their full strength; and when the taste, inflamed by indulgence, drove
them to crime, or laid them in the dust, their ruin suggested no reflection beyond the general
evils of intemperance. Had the light of science illuminated the imperial authorities, they
perhaps had provided some check on this grand incentive to crime.

The deposition of Bligh was occasioned by this fatal appetite: whether from sullenness, or
conviction, he discouraged the vendors of rum, and attempted to obstruct their living on the
vices of the prisoners. The landing of a still, and its seizure, was followed by a series of
altercations, which led to the military rebellion, and terminated his government. This event
roused the public attention for a moment, to the state of the colony. In 1811-12 a committee
of the House of Commons was appointed "to enquire into the manner in which the sentence of
transportation had been executed, and the effects produced by that mode of punishment." The
result was remarkable: the committee advised that more constitutional tribunals should be established,
and distillation allowed.[102] The ministers of the day feebly vindicated the royal commission
violated in the deposition of Bligh; and having once more set in motion the machine of legal
government by the appointment of Macquarie, fell back into long slumber. Thenceforth, and for
many years, rum was a great agent in the working of government, and the source of private opulence.
The monopoly escaped official hands, but the expirees succeeded to the profitable calling.
The large fortunes accumulated by many, were rarely derived from any other trade. Their prosperity
was traced with startling uniformity: they sold their spirits to the settlers for produce,
which they vended at the royal stores: they indulged them with credit, until hopelessly involved,
when mortgages were executed, and foreclosed with a rapidity and precision which leaves modern
conveyancing in the shade.[103] Individual powers of consumption were incredibly great: the
expiree farmer, and his not more intemperate prisoner servant, broached the vessel, poured
out its contents into buckets, and drank until they were insensible, or until, roused to frantic
vigor, they were swift to shed blood. Such scenes were common.[104]

The specious advantage to the revenue, exhibited by our colonial statistics, protected a vice
so useful. The influence of this interest cannot be overstated: to put down spirit drinking
would, in equal proportion, disturb colonial finance. The demands of the public service were
always in advance of its means, and no colonial administration was found sufficiently enlightened
or courageous to add the prevention of this poisonous indulgence to the other consequences
of banishment.

Macquarie revived the policy of the Stuarts, in regulating this trade: to Messrs. Wentworth,
Riley, and Blaxland, he granted (1810) the exclusive privilege of importation, and by the duty
they paid (7s. per gallon), erected a hospital. They proved, in defiance of economists, how
monopoly can, sometimes, enlarge the supply, and thus increase the demand. They dispatched
their agents to the Mauritius, India, and the Cape, and bought at 2s. 6d. per gallon; and arrack
and rum deluged the colony. The success of their enterprise was great: in less than two years
they obtained sufficient to raise the edifice, which could not want occupants, and cost more
than £20,000.

The effects of this measure were flagrant: a letter, addressed by Marsden, the chaplain, to
Macquarie, depicted the wretched condition of the prisoners. The scenes of dissipation which
passed before him deprived him of repose. Freed women, living at Parramatta, unprovided with
public shelter, ran headlong into vice, and dropped all around him, slain by rum and dissipation.
He stood aghast and powerless before the devastation: at times he observed, "I envy the situation
of the most menial servant, who is free from this solemn and sacred responsibility."[105] The
reply of Macquarie was witty rather than relevant. He told Lord Sidmouth, in effect, that the
sorrows of Marsden were too deep for discovery: noted for the cheerfulness, and even gaiety
of his temper, his movements were too rapid for grief; and his days, divided between the cares
of farming, grazing, and trade--to say nothing of his clerical occupation--left him no time
for sorrow.[106] The evils he described are, however, proved by uniform testimony: they must
exist where dealing in spirits is the sure path to wealth, and wealth the title to social distinction.

In the Rocks, drunkenness and debauchery were constant and undisguised: persons of respectable
appearance, in the day time, were liable to mal-treatment; but those who, in the night, entered
the "fortress of iniquity," were usually stripped and plundered. Broils and boxing matches
were of perpetual occurrence; the public-houses were "fences;" and degraded women, in large
numbers, crowded these dens of thieves.[107]

It is not necessary to give a chronological history of the spirituous epoch. The reign of intemperance
commenced with the first proclamation: it received all the protection of law, and the favour
of government: it was embodied in our penal administration. Whether it was possible to check
its mischief, some may doubt; but that it has clenched the population fast; that it has formed
our gangs--crowded our prisons; that it has covered our scaffolds, and filled ten thousand
graves--is certain as death!

The correspondence maintained between the convicts and their friends, informed them of their
prosperity. The alluring picture, drawn by those whose bondage was past, exhibited a social
state, precisely suited to the taste of their kindred and acquaintance. The sensual and dissolute
were tempted by the riotous jollity of the "Rocks;" those fond of equivocal commerce with the
profits of trade; and others were cheered by the assurance that a friend in bonds would find
a nominal master in a relative or former friend, when the formalities of inspection were over.[108]
Such as brought out spoil, were besieged with offers of investment, and found themselves in
a market where money was the passport to favor and indulgence; others, less fortunate, were
pillaged by those who crowded them with welcomes,[109] or drawn into bargains which proved
that no cozening art was lost.

To illustrate the occasional good fortune of prisoners, one Hazard, may be worth remembrance:
he had been before transported; in 1815, he arrived under a second sentence, for life. While
on the voyage out, he purchased a quantity of tobacco: he received, on landing, a ticket-of-leave;
immediately married the daughter of an innkeeper, and obtained a license, in the name of his
wife, to the same calling: he was patronised by the most respectable settlers, and enjoyed
prosperity until his death, only five years after his arrival.

In this colony, the acting secretary of the Governor secured his ticket at his landing, and
was long distinguished for the extent of his influence, and the elegance of his dwelling.[110]
It may be presumed that, however explained on the spot, these examples were not lost on the
republic of thieves; and many were disposed to try that fortune which was so often propitious.

The ordinary of Newgate, Mr. Cotton, a well-known name, in his evidence before the Commons
in 1818, has left nothing to conjecture. The prisoners of his day "looked on transportation
as a party of pleasure:" they departed from the prison with huzzas, and bade glad adieu to
their less happy companions and keepers, exclaiming, "what a glorious kangaroo hunt we will
have at the Bay."[111]

    "Stabant orantes primi transmittere cursum
        Tendebantque manus ripæ ulterioris amore."

    VIRGIL.

To distinguish bravado from triumph, is sometimes difficult; but there must have been little
to appall, where there was so much to hope: nor did they perceive that, though many were fortunate,
not a few, at the brightest era, groaned in bondage; that degradation and suffering, sometimes,
reached their utmost limits, at which death itself stops the hand of vengeance.

The opinions that prevailed among the prisoners, in reference to the intentions of the British
government, were adopted by Macquarie himself; he held, like them, that the colony was established
for the benefit of persons convicted, and that in forming a system of political government,
their social welfare was the grand design to pursue. The notion was not without support. In
the nominal list of the first fleet, not more than fifty in all were banished for terms exceeding
seven years.[112] To suppose that these were perpetually excluded from the immunities of British
subjects, would be to attribute to expatriation a forfeiture beyond the operation of English
law. The opinion was further fortified by the distribution of land, under regulations which
were intended to encourage their permanent settlement, and limited only to such as, "by their
good conduct and disposition to industry, should be deserving of favor, and receive emancipation
and discharge from their servitude."[113] This opinion was still further sustained by the comparative
neglect of emigration, and the selection of officers, for situations of authority and trust,
from the ranks of the prisoners. A comparison of property acquired by the various classes,
in 1820, explains many anomalies[114] in their social aspect, and vindicates the policy of
Macquarie himself. It is shown, that the emancipists and their children were more than five
times in excess of the free; and that their property in land, trade, and commerce, exceeded
by more than one-half the possessions of the voluntary settlers.

To erect the barriers of caste around so small a section, and to exclude emancipists from the
common intercourse of social life, was a task no Governor could then accomplish, without danger.
The changes which followed Macquarie's administration, especially the growth of a free population,
enabled his successors to effect what, in 1817 to 1820, had been attempted in vain. The opposition
encountered by Macquarie, and which he resented with the ardour of his character,[115] enabled
his enemies to represent him as the patron of criminals. He was said to look upon their offences
in the light of misfortunes, which they were to repair in the country of their exile, rather
than to atone by the severities of toil and privation;[116] and that they were taught to look
upon no title to property, as so just as that which had been derived by passing from crime
to conviction; from thence to servitude, emancipation, and grant.[117]

The difference of opinion and feeling between the Governor and military, led to the combination
of emancipists, who did not veil their former condition, but ennobled it by raising it to a
political interest; who adopted a designation, and formed a system of morality, to which it
is useless to look for a parallel. They returned with bitterness the reproaches of the free,
and insisted on the benefit of the proverb, which ascribes more virtue to the vigor of reformation,
than the constancy of obedience.[118] Their advocates would ask, with exultation, whether any
emigrants were found whose life would bear a scrutiny? Whether greater crimes are not tolerated
by the refinements of vice than those which are commonly visited with the vengeance of the
law? or, exhibiting the doctrines of christianity in their aspect to the penitent, they thundered
forth denunciations against the proud and the self-righteous! The champion of this system,
Mr. W. C. Wentworth, turned the artillery of his wrath against the exclusionists: "and shall
not," he exclaimed, in the ardour of his youth, "shall not the sole efficacious remedy be administered
(the restoration of the civil rights, capacity to become magistrates and legislators), because
a set of interlopers, in nowise connected with the purposes for which this colony was founded,
wish to monopolise all the respectable offices of the government, all the functions of emolument,
dignity, and power, themselves." "Retrospection should not be pushed beyond the period of arrival,
but then subsequent good behaviour should be subject to the severest tests. The re-convicted
offender, branded with the lasting impressions of infamy, should be rendered ever after incapable."[119]

Such was the recognised code of the emancipist: it were, indeed, easy to see that the several
convictions of some small rogue might not, in their aggregation, equal the crime of him who
sinks a ship or burns a house, or the guilt of an atrocious offence, which escapes the last
penalty of public vengeance, by some legal error; but to obliterate the first stigma of those
who constituted the great body of a population, and whose self-respect was their chief chance
of virtue, was not unreasonable.

The evils which rose from this system of oblivion, are to be traced to the indiscretion which
formed a community of criminal origin. The effects produced by their equipages, luxury, and
licentiousness, on the British population, when set forth in the language of romance, were
not to be charged on the local government. It is in the nature of commerce to collect wealth:
the traders were nearly all expirees; they became rich, not because they were transported,
but because some were industrious, others saving, and others fraudulent; and because they were
in the midst of a system of expenditure, which made the Treasury of England their bank.

The acquisitions of men, who had been prisoners, with great absurdity and forgetfulness, were
attributed to the laxity of the local governors. Even now, many who are dextrous, shrewd, and
persevering, acquire considerable properties: their prosperity awakens no alarm, because they
are lost amidst a dense population, and are surrounded by emigrants, who by similar vices or
virtues are not less opulent, but far more numerous.

The first sound that fell on the ear of the prisoner, when he stood before Governor Macquarie,
tended to animate his confidence: having enquired of his treatment through the voyage, he then
informed him that the past was left to oblivion, and that the future would determine his condition,[120]
This was often no vain promise: the sentiments he expressed were, more or less, recognised
by the preceding Governors. The Commons, in 1812, gave his policy their sanction, and Earl
Bathurst, though with more reserve, favored the same opinion. Macquarie never disguised this
system of mercy.[121] When transportation only contemplated the establishment of a colony,
this system of oblivion was useful; but the passage from the bar of justice to liberty, was
sometimes not longer than the passage from England: and those who rose to wealth, by their
character and career, gave to public retribution the aspect of grimace.

On the appointment (1814) of H----, as superintendent of convicts, an office then of greater
real power than any other in the penal department of the British empire, Macquarie, says Bigge,
gave an enumeration of his merits; and continued frequently to publish in the Gazette eulogies
on his character. This is slily sketched by the Commissioner himself, and with more precision
by Dr. Reid, who was on the spot at the time. Mr. H---- was a convict, and was placed in office
at Sydney, but breaking into the King's stores, either in person or by deputy, and taking away
a bale of slops, he was re-transported to Norfolk Island, where he won the government notice
by his diligence as a dealer in pork, and was recommended by the commandant to Macquarie. This
man exercised his functions in the Turkish style: he rigorously depressed all unseasonable
attempts at virtue; but nothing was impossible to those who were able and willing to pay, for
whom he was accustomed to act as banker. His manners were coarse to loathsomeness, and he addressed
the prisoners in language which outstripped their own;--"eclipsed them in wickedness, and in
revolting filthiness." Nor was his domestic position more respectable: his wife was one of
two, too bad for endurance, who were forced from the colony, and sent to England for reformation.[122]
Such was the man entrusted with more than magisterial power.

While the female prisoners were landed, his clerks became brokers for masters, friends, and
husbands. When ships arrived, boats crowded round them, and the visitors chose, among the female
prisoners, a wife, or such other relative as might answer to their prior engagements.[123]
Having sworn to these ties of kin, the superintendent assigned them according to the plan of
the contracting parties, who, within twenty-four hours, had been total strangers. We may imagine
the eclât with which so clever a device would be appeared to the correspondents of the fortunate
transport.

Those, whose appearance or dullness excluded them from these resources, were taken to the factory.
On their arrival, "according to custom," they were met by a body of men, who, having satisfied
the constables, spread before these women the spirits and provisions provided for the feast
of welcome: what followed need not be told. The connivance of the superintendent, with the
most of these excesses, might be expected from his character; and although he displayed considerable
tact in subjecting the prisoners to his control, his appointment and prerogatives almost justified,
and they fully accounted for, the rancour with which his patron was opposed and condemned.

Thus Macquarie did not exercise the caution requisite to preserve his generous designs from
parliamentary censure: imprudent efforts to give effect to his conviction, involved him in
a contest which hastened his recall, and it is said, shortened his life.[124] He raised to
the bench, and invited to his table, several emancipists of wealth, and made their social reception
the condition of his favor. When elevating to offices, he sometimes violated his own rule of
forgetting the past, by basing his eulogy on the reformation of the person he delighted to
honor. The details of their character, furnished by the indignant or malicious, cast an air
of ridicule on their public reception. The subalterns of the army refused to join their superior
officers in entertainments, at which emancipists were guests. The resentment of Macquarie aggravated
the quarrel, until the differences divided the colony into factions, and finally originated
the emancipist party; and by provoking observation, tended to increase the severity which fell
on their successors.

In those times of despotism, many were transported for political offences, which in Great Britain
leave no moral stigma, and when forgiven by the crown, close no social circle.[125]

