We have now arrived at Walham Green, once a small village standing in the fields. It has been
variously spelt. In a map of 1686 by Lea it is "Wollam," and in 1706 "Wallam"; in a 1720 map
(Seale) it is "Wallom," and in Rocque of 1754 "Wallam" again. Before 1686 it was Wandon and
Wansdon, according to Crofton Croker, and Lysons derives it from Wendon, either because the
traveller had to wend his way through it to Fulham, or because the drainage from higher grounds
"wandered" through it to the river. The Church of St. John is situated at Walham Green. It
has a high square tower with corner pinnacles, and is partly covered with ivy. It is built
of stone, and the total cost was about £9,680. It was consecrated on August 14, 1828, and restored
in 1892-93. The schools in connection with it, built in 1894, stand in the Dawes Road opposite.
Passing eastward on the Fulham Road, we come to the Walham Green Station of the District Railway.
Just opposite is the Town Hall, a square building of brick with stone frontage, ornamentally
decorated with carving. It was built in 1891. Further on, on the opposite side, is the Wesleyan
Chapel at Walham Green, opened in April, 1892. The buildings are of brick, with stone dressings.
In the Moore Park Road, which branches off the Fulham Road near the boundary, stands St. James's
Church, an ugly brick building with no spire or tower, which was consecrated on June 28, 1867,
and the apse was built out at the east end about a dozen years later. There is a row of stained-glass
windows low down across the west end. Going back to Walham Green proper, we find a double row
of almshouses, shut off from the Vanston Place Road by iron gates. These are the almshouses
of the Butchers' Charitable Institution, which was founded on October 16, 1828. The almshouses
themselves were begun at Walham Green in 1840. The object is described in the report as "for
affording relief to decayed or distressed master butchers, master pork-butchers, cattle and
meat commission salesmen, their widows and orphans."

In Fulham Road, westward, John Rocque lived. His maps of London and environs are still used
by all topographers, and are full of accurate detail. In the map published in 1741-45 his name
is printed across the road at this spot. On the south side of the road formerly stood Ravensworth
House, pulled down in 1877. The site of it is now occupied by the Swan Brewery. The grounds
of Ravensworth House stretched out as far as the present railway, where there was a large pond.
When Thorne wrote his "Environs" in 1876, the house was still standing, and he describes it
as of "but moderate proportions, but more capacious than it looks." The Queen and Prince Consort
were entertained here by Lord Ravensworth in 1840. Faulkner refers to Ravensworth House as
"Mr. Ord's house and garden," and mentions the Glastonbury thorn which flowered on Christmas
Day, and the moss-rose which, being "laid" year after year, at length covered a space in diameter
47 feet. The Swan Brewery, owned by Messrs. Stansfeld, was founded on the same site in 1765.
It passed through several hands, and eventually, in 1880, Messrs. Stansfeld acquired possession
and proceeded to erect new premises. Bolingbroke House was a little further on. Tradition says
it was the residence of Lord Bolingbroke, who was visited here by Pope. It was eventually divided
into two houses--Dungannon House and Albany Lodge--and these were demolished only in 1893.
Dungannon House was also known as Acacia Cottage, and in it lived the first publisher of Cowper's
works--a Mr. Joseph Johnson--until 1809.

We are now at Purser's Cross, and after a digression southward shall presently return. East
End House, pulled down in 1885, stood at the corner where Delvino Road now joins the Green.
It was the residence for some time of Mrs. Fitzherbert, morganatic wife of George, Prince of
Wales, afterwards George IV. The gardens stretched over much of the land now built upon at
the back, and contained a magnificent cedar-tree, which had to be blown up by dynamite when
the house was pulled down. Sir Thomas Bodley, founder of the Bodleian Library at Oxford, lived
at Parson's Green from 1605 to 1609 (Lysons).

At the back of a network of small streets to the east lies Eelbrook Common. In Faulkner's map,
1813, it is marked Hell-brook, though in the printed matter he uses both titles. It has been
suggested that the title may have originally been Hill-brook, as there was a curious rise in
the ground just to the west; but, on the other hand, eels may have been common in the pond
above referred to. Faulkner gives a notice relative to it embodied in an order relating to
Wormholt Wood, presented at a court held for the Manor of Fulham on May 9, 1603, which runs
as follows: "That no person or persons shall put in any horse or other cattle into Hell-brook
until the last day of April every year henceforth: nor shall not at any time after the 11th
of May put in nor take out any of their said cattles, any other way but the old and accustomed
way upon pain to forfeit to the lord for every such offence £01.00.00." In 1656 Colonel Edmund
Harvey, who had bought the manor confiscated under the Commonwealth, agreed to pay fifty shillings
yearly to the poor for taking in the common called Hell-brook. Through part of the land included
in Eelbrook Common runs the District Railway between Walham Green and Parsons Green stations.

We now return to the junction of Parson's Green Lane and Fulham Road, called Purser's Cross,
which has been variously written Persicross, Percycross. The stone bearing inscription "Purser's
Cross, 7th of August 1738," is built into the wall of the corner house, now a grocer's shop.
It was originally in the house on the same site occupied for a time by Madame Grisi. The stone
itself is very small, about 8 by 6 inches, and, being high up, is rather difficult to see.
The story goes that the place was so called in memory of a highwayman, who, being overtaken
at the cross-roads, shot himself after flinging his purse into the crowd, and was buried here
with a stake driven through his body. Purser's Cross is mentioned in the parish books in 1602.

Arundel Gardens were built over the site of Arundel House, demolished in 1898.

The origin of the name Arundel House is not known. It seems probable that the house was originally
a Tudor structure, as some unmistakable Tudor mullions were found built up in an old wall;
yet the greater part of it dated from the Stuart period. A large ornamental cistern which stood
in the scullery bore date 1703. The back view of the house, with its irregular dark-brick buildings
and additions, here and there covered with creepers, was very picturesque. Tradition says that
Henry Hallam, the historian, lived here about 1819.

Close at hand stands the Fulham Free Public Library. It came into existence in 1886, when an
old building, standing a few feet back from the main Fulham Road, was adapted for offices,
lending and reference rooms, and a new reading-room of magnificent dimensions--70 by 30 feet,
and 22 feet in height--was added at a cost of £6,000. This was opened by the then Bishop of
London, October 20, 1888.

Further westward, at the entrance of Chesilton Place, stands Munster Park Wesleyan Chapel,
with a square tower surmounted by four high pinnacles. It was opened in 1882.

At the west entrance of the Munster Road stood Munster House, demolished in 1895. Faulkner
spells it Mustow or Munster, and in John Rocque's Survey of 1741-45 it is "Muster." Lysons
says: "Mustow (commonly called Munster) House on the north side of the road to London between
Fulham and Purses Cross was during the greater part of the last century the property of the
Powells, from whom it came to Sir John Williams of Pengethly, Monmouthshire, Baronet. It is
now the property of Arthur Annesley Powell, Esq., and is occupied as a school." Faulkner mentions
the tradition of its having been a hunting-seat of King Charles II. Croker says it is supposed
to owe its name to Melesina Schulenberg, created by George II. Duchess of Munster. For some
time before it was pulled down it was used as a lunatic asylum.

From Munster Road onwards the houses on the south side of the Fulham Road are not aggressively
new. In the grounds of one of them--Eridge House--there is a fine cedar, which shows that the
grounds must have belonged to some building older than that standing at present, probably that
of Fulham Lodge. On the east of the High Street stand All Saints' National Schools. In the
continuation of the High Street is an old house on the left-hand side called Fulham House.
It stands back on the east side of the road behind a wall. Some of the carving on the fireplaces
and doors is very elaborate. In a large room upstairs a sumptuously carved wooden mantel encloses
a coloured marble block with a white marble centre. The door of this room is also very fine.
The cellars are extraordinarily large and massively built. This used to be called Stourton
House. Faulkner mentions that in 1449 John Sherbourn and others sold a house and garden at
Fulham, then valued at 3s. 4d. per annum, to John, first Lord Stourton, and it remained in
possession of the family many years. The Fulham Pottery and Cheavin Filter Company stands just
at the corner of the New King's Road and Burlington Street. The business was established here
by John Dwight in 1671. Specimens of his stone-ware are to be seen in the British Museum, which
in 1887 acquired twelve new examples. It is said that John Dwight, M.A., of Christ Church College,
Oxford, was the inventor of porcelain in England. He also discovered the mystery of the Cologne
ware, and successfully competed with it in England. Doulton himself, the founder of the great
Doulton ware, was an apprentice at Fulham. In 1840 the buildings were greatly enlarged and
improved, and again in 1864. The ornamental pottery which is still made--though in a small
quantity--resembles Doulton ware, but the great development of the industry has been in the
direction of glazed ware of great resisting power. Cheavin's patent filters are sent all over
the world, and a speciality is made of the chemical trade, immense baths for the electro-plating
acids being supplied to Government.

Close at hand, at the back of High Street, stood the old workhouse, which has been for many
years pulled down. At the back of the High Street also was a gaol for female convicts, which
has now vanished. The gaol was built about 1854 on the site of Burlington House, which had
been a school.

Church Row is a charming old-fashioned row, and the houses mentioned by Bowack as "very handsome
and airy" are probably those still standing. At the end of the row are Sir William Powell's
Almshouses, prettily designed with red-tiled roofs, and at one end is a tower surmounted by
statues of female characters from the Bible. Directly across the road is the old rectory-house.
A shady avenue of young limes leads up to the church. The tower, which is square, is shown
in old prints to have been surmounted by a steeple. It contains a peal of bells cast by Ruddle
in the middle of the eighteenth century; all the bells bear inscriptions, and many of them
the date of casting. Within the church porch is a board with the following words: "1881. The
Parish Church of All Saints, Fulham, lapsed into a state of decay, and, being subject to the
floods from the river Thames, was pulled down and rebuilt. In the construction of the present
church, stones belonging to three previous churches, the oldest of which apparently dated from
the twelfth century, were discovered.

"The east end has been carried nine feet, and the south wall five feet, beyond the limits of
the previous church, while the floor of the nave has been raised two feet nine inches, and
the roof thirteen feet above the former levels. The cornerstone at the east angle of the north
transept was laid by Archibald Campbell Tait, 1880, and the church was re-consecrated by John
Jackson, Bishop of London, on July 9th, 1881."

The monuments preserved from the older buildings stand in the church in rather different order
from formerly. In the west end is that in remembrance of Viscount Mordaunt, son of the Earl
of Peterborough. It is a statue of a man larger than life; the figure, which is carved in marble,
has a proud and defiant attitude. It stands on a slab of black marble supported by a pedestal.
On either side on smaller pedestals are the Viscount's coronet and gauntlets. He is in Roman
dress, and holds a baton as Constable of Windsor Castle. On the left is his pedigree engraved
on marble. The date inscribed on the tablet to his memory is 1675. At the west end of the north
aisle is the ancient font mentioned by Faulkner as standing in the east end of the south aisle.
It was the gift of Mr. Thomas Hyll, churchwarden in 1622, and is of stone, painted and gilt.
On the east wall of the north aisle are three monuments which attract attention. That of "Payne
of Pallenswick Esqre," who "hath placed this monument to the memory of himself and Jane his
wife who hath lived with him in wedlock XLIIII years and died the first day of May in Anno
Dmi 1610, and the said William Payne the day of  Anno Dmi . The sayd William Payne hath given
forever after his decease an Ilande in the Ryver of Thames caled Makenshawe to the use of the
poor of this parish on Hammersmith side." The date of his own death not having been filled
in, it is probable he is buried elsewhere. Next to his is the monument of Thomas Bonde, dated
March, 1600, with a quaint inscription beginning: "At Earth in Cornwell was my first begininge,
from Bondes and Corringtons as it may apere." Next to this is the monument of Katharine Hart,
of which a representation is given by Faulkner. She is kneeling with her two sons and two daughters,
in a style similar to the Lawrence monument in Chelsea Old Church. The inscription bears date
1605. On the north side of the chancel is a large monument to Sir Thomas Smith, died November
28, 1609. Opposite is that of Lady Margaret Legh, who is represented life-size dressed in stiff
ruff and farthingale, holding an infant in swaddling bands on her knee. Another infant in swaddling
bands is on her left side. Over her is an arch supported by pillars. The coat of arms of her
family rests in the centre of the arch. She died July 3, 1603. The monument has been very much
admired. In the southern aisle is the organ, with handsomely carved oak case. On a jutting
wall close by is a curious old brass plate found buried in 1770. The inscription is in Latin
to Margaret Svanders, who died 1529. The floor of the church is thickly covered with flat tombstones.
One of these is in memory of Thomas Carlos, son of Colonel Careless, who hid in the oak-tree
with King Charles II., and who was consequently allowed to change his name to Carlos, and to
bear upon his arms a branching oak-tree. The coat of arms on the tomb is very distinct, and
the date 1665.

Opposite to the Peterborough monument at the west end is a very large marble monument in memory
of Dorothy Clarke, and her second husband. A great marble urn upon it is said by Bowack to
have been the work of Grinling Gibbons, and to have cost £300. A memorial window to Archbishop
Tait is fixed in the west end of the south aisle. In the churchyard are the tombs of Bishops
Compton, Robinson, Gibson, Sherlock, Hayter, Terrick, and Lowth. Here also is the grave of
Theodore Hook, the wit, with a perfectly plain stone at the head recording his death, "24th
Aug. 1841 in the 53rd year of his age."

Near the entrance to what are now the public gardens stood Pryor's Bank, a well-known house,
built about the beginning of the eighteenth century in an ancient style. It was originally
called Vine Cottage, and was very elaborately fitted up. Nearly all the doors were surrounded
with carving and golding. Many of them were of solid oak, and the panelling in the rooms corresponded.
Two quaint old panels of painted wood in one of the reception-rooms bore curious figures on
pedestals; underneath one who was in ecclesiastical robes was written: "John Baylis, Lord Pryor,
1554, of Werlock Abbey"; and under the other: "William of Wickham, 1366, Bishop of Winchester."
Close by Pryor's Bank stood Egmont Lodge, where Theodore Hook lived. It was a small house,
pulled down in 1855. The aspect of the whole of this part has been completely changed of late
years by the building of a river-wall, and the laying out as a public garden of the strip of
ground by the river called Bishop's Park.

The grounds of this public park are decorated with flower-beds and supplied with seats. On
part of the space once stood Craven Cottage, built by the Margravine of Brandenburg when she
was Countess Craven. Sir E. Bulwer-Lytton lived here from 1840 to 1846. At the beginning of
Bishop's Avenue is the entrance to the Manor House, or Fulham Palace, as it is commonly called,
the residence of the Bishop of London. Passing between two lodges of red brick, and following
a short drive, we come to a massive gateway with heavy oak doors. Through this lies the first
courtyard, very little altered from Faulkner's print in 1813. The Manor of Fulham, as we have
seen already, has belonged to the See of London since about 691, when it was given to Bishop
Erkenwald and his successors by "Tyrtilus, a bishop, with the consent of Sigehard, king of
the east Saxons and the king of the Mercians." Lysons adds that Tyrtilus, Bishop of Hereford,
who he supposes is intended, was contemporary with Erkenwald. In 1647 it was sold to Colonel
Harvey with the leasehold land belonging to it for £7,617 8s. 10d., but was given back to the
See at the Restoration. In Domesday Book we read: "In Fulham the Bishop of London holds forty
hides.... Its whole value is forty pounds, the like when received in Edward's [the Confessor's]
time fifty pounds."

The carriage-entrance is in Fulham Palace Road, and this leads to an avenue of limes. To the
north lies a part of the public park, once a field belonging to the Bishops. The drive crosses
the wonderful moat, which is nearly a mile in circuit, and, if dug by the Danes as conjectured,
must be a thousand years old. This moat has given rise to much discussion, as it is too far
from the palace for any purpose of defence, and the idea that it was made by the Danes as a
partial safeguard against the floods of the river is that which gains most credence.

The palace is built round two courtyards, and the one first entered is by far the older. It
was built by Bishop Fitzjames in the reign of Henry VII., and the great gateway which leads
to it bears his arms cut in stone. There are few places that preserve so completely their ancient
aspect as this courtyard; the material is red brick, and in summer, when creepers climb over
the worn bricks, its attractiveness is greatly enhanced. The wing on the west or river side
contains the rooms used by Laud while Bishop; this part has been refaced, and the buttresses
were added at the same time, but within it is unchanged. Opposite, on the eastern side, are
the rooms once occupied by Bishop Bonner, which carry an association no less interesting, though
of a different kind. The great porch facing the entrance gateway leads into the hall, which
is also part of Bishop Fitzjames's work. The hall is divided by a screen of dark oak, which
came from old Doctors' Commons, and the other oak fittings were brought here from the former
chapel, and originally belonged to the chapel of London House, Aldersgate Street. A new ceiling
was put up by Bishop Sherlock, whose arms are over the fireplace, in conjunction with a framed
inscription recording the building of Bishop Fitzjames on a site where buildings had stood
as far back as the Conquest. The hall was at one time used as the chapel, of which more will
be told presently. In the same block is the kitchen, once the dining-room.

In 1715 Bishop Robinson presented a petition to the Archbishop of Canterbury, stating that
the palace was in a ruinous condition, and was too large for the revenues. A number of commissioners,
amongst whom were Sir John Vanbrugh and Sir Christopher Wren, were accordingly appointed to
examine into the matter and report upon it. The purport of their report was that, after taking
down "the bakehouse and the pastry-house, which adjoined to the kitchen, and all the buildings
to the northward of the great dining-room, there would be left between fifty and sixty rooms
beside the chapel, hall, and kitchen." These being judged sufficient for the use of the Bishop,
a license was granted to pull down what was superfluous and put the rest into better condition.

However, in 1764 Bishop Terrick began a further extension and rebuilding, and it is to him
we owe the idea of the second quadrangle or courtyard. He died too soon to complete his project,
and left only the western wing of the new courtyard, but his work was carried on by his successor,
Sherlock. The design was distinctly good, particularly for that age of debased taste. Engravings
of Sherlock's palace show battlemented angle towers, and a recessed main building which is
very picturesque. In the southern wing he placed the library and dining-room, and on the eastern
side he made the chapel. When Bishop Howley came into power, he set to work at once to alter
the palace of his predecessors, and replace it by something which can only be described as
a block. He levelled the frontage between the towers, and cut off the battlements, and made
the building much as we see it now, with the exception of the modernization of some of the
windows. Howley then converted the building made for the chapel into the library, which it
still remains. It includes the famous collection of books made by Bishop Porteous. The rooms
on the south side became under Bishop Howley's modifications the dining and drawing rooms,
and the great hall he used for a chapel.

It was not until 1867, under Bishop Tait, that the present chapel was opened. It is connected
with the main building by a passage, and stands on the river side of the palace. It was designed
by Mr. Butterfield, and is bright and well proportioned. Behind the altar at present stands
a reredos of carved wood with a representation of the Crucifixion.

The palace grounds have been considerably curtailed by the formation of the public park, which
now bounds them riverwards. The idea of giving this portion of land to the public was carried
out by Bishop Temple, though it originated with his predecessor. The park includes the long
strip above mentioned, lying outside the moat, and the field to the north already spoken of
in connection with the drive. The embankment has entirely altered the aspect of this part of
Fulham, and the days when the Bishop of London "took water" at his private stairs have gone
for ever.

Within the palace gardens are many curious specimens of trees not found elsewhere in England.
Bishop Grindal was the first of the Bishops to take an interest in gardening, but it is to
Bishop Compton that we owe the real beauty of the gardens. He was bold enough to defy James
II., and to declare in the House of Lords that the civil and ecclesiastical constitution of
the kingdom was in danger; he further incensed the King by refusing to suspend a clergyman
who had preached a sermon against Roman Catholicism. For this he himself was suspended, and
not allowed to exercise his ecclesiastical functions, though, as according to the law, the
temporalities of the see were his own--they could not be touched. The Bishop therefore retired
to Fulham and sought solace among his plants, to the great gain of his successors in the See.

But the palace and its grounds have occupied us long enough, and the ramble through Fulham
must be resumed.

A small footbridge leads across the moat to the churchyard. Crossing this, we find ourselves
in Church Row, which brings us to the junction of the New King's Road and the old High Street.
Following the New King's Road and passing under the railway, we come almost immediately to
the shady drive leading to Mulgrave House. Adjoining the grounds of Mulgrave House are those
of Hurlingham Club, which cover fifty acres, and include a picturesque lake. Pigeon-shooting,
polo-playing, tennis, and archery are all provided for. The entrance in the Hurlingham Road
leads to a well-kept drive, which takes us straight up to the club-house. The house is of white
stone, and the front facing the river has an arcade supported by enormous pillars running right
up to the cornice. On the west side is a fine conservatory, on the east the large dining-rooms
and smoking-lounge, which have been added to meet requirements. Within the house itself the
drawing-room and coffee-room have been ornamented with coloured designs on ceiling and walls,
and are very bright and handsomely furnished. Many of the rooms upstairs have ornamented carved
cornices and panels. The club was started in 1867, mainly for pigeon-shooting, under the auspices
of Mr. Frank Heathcote, who leased it from Mr. Naylor. Before that time the house had been
the residence of the Horsley-Palmers and of Lord Egremont. In 1874 the property was bought
by the club, and polo-playing was begun. The King and Queen--as Prince and Princess of Wales--and
Duke and Duchess of Edinburgh watched the first game in the June of that year.

The ancient history of the house is defective. In the churchwarden's accounts of the parish
in 1681 we read: "It is ordered that there be built and erected two small tenements next to
the north side of ye poore Almes Houses given by John Lappy with such old stuff as was lately
taken downe from the Pest Houses in Hurlingham Field at ye charge of the Parish contayning
two roomes." And Faulkner adds an extract from Brayley's "London" to the above in the form
of a note: "Hurlingham Field is now the property of the Earl of Ranelagh, and the site of his
house. It was here that great numbers of people were buried during the plague." The origin
of the name seems lost in obscurity, though it has been suggested, perhaps facetiously, it
was derived from the custom of hurling the bodies of the plague dead into any grave without
care or compunction. Broom House, next door, with adjoining grounds, is noticed in Rocque's
1757 map, and is inscribed on Faulkner's 1813 map as "Broom Houses." Faulkner refers to it
as a little village, but mentions that "the Dowager Countess of Lonsdale has an elegant house
and garden here in full view of the Thames." The place is said to have received its name from
the broom which grew here profusely. Broomhouse Road runs from Hurlingham Road, past the gates
of Broom House, down to the river. It is a veritable lane, with leafy trees shadowing it. On
the east side, a little above Broom House, is a very striking building of red brick, with bright
white stone facings, and a square central tower surmounted by four pinnacles. This is the Elizabeth
Free School, founded and endowed by Mr. Sulivan of Broom House, in 1855. Further down the road,
close by the river, is Carnwath House, the residence of the Earl of Carnwath. It is irregularly
built of brick. Beyond it is a raised path, which winds along by the river and leads past acres
of market-gardens, in which are large plum-orchards.

Northward is Parsons Green, so called from the fact that the old rectory-house stood on the
west side. Lysons says: "Parsonage house stands upon the west side of Parsons or Parsonage
Green, to which it gave its name. It is now divided into two tenements. In the year 1598 it
was in the tenure of Sir Francis Walsingham's widow." Bowack, in 1705, wrote that it was old
and much decayed. He says an old stone building adjoining seemed to be 300 or 400 years old,
and might have been used for religious services by the Rectors and their households. Parson's
Green was once a very fashionable place; in Strype's edition of Stow's "Survey" it is commented
on as having "very good houses for gentry." St. Dionis' Church is a noticeable object, built
of red brick, with Bath stone dressings. Though only consecrated on June 18, 1885, it carries
with it associations from an older building, St. Dionis Backchurch, which stood at the corner
of Lime Street and Fenchurch Street. When that church had been pulled down, the pulpit, font,
and altar were transferred to the new building at Fulham, and £10,000 was devoted out of the
proceeds of the sale of the site for the use and endowment of the new church. The pulpit and
font date from 1666. The plate also is interesting, including two flagons, four chalices, four
patens, etc., which are of various dates from 1625 to 1725. A large red-brick hall, separated
from the church by Rectory Road, is used as a mission-hall. A few steps further northward,
partly hidden from the road by intervening buildings, was the old house called Rosamund's Bower.
Before its demolition in 1892 it was quaintly pretty, with leaded window-panes and red-tiled
roof, and was then known as Audley Cottage. It was called Rosamond's Bower first in order to
perpetuate the tradition of its standing on the site of a mansion of Fair Rosamund. The earliest
mention of it is in 1480, when it was valued at ten marks per annum. It belonged to Sir Michael
Wharton before 1725, and when he died in that year it was divided between his co-heirs. It
was the residence of Mr. Crofton Croker between 1837 and 1846, and he has written a very full
account of it. Samuel Richardson came to Parson's Green in 1755 from North End. In Ashington
Road stands the Church of the Holy Cross, a Roman Catholic building of plain yellow brick,
with a cross at each end, built in 1886. Just after leaving Parson's Green, there is on the
right a high red-brick wall, which shows signs of age. Within it stood until recently Peterborough
House, the second of the name. The original Peterborough House stood on the site of one still
older, known as Brightwells. It was the property of John Tarnworth, Privy Councillor to Queen
Elizabeth, and he died here in 1569.

Sir Thomas Knolles afterwards owned it, and sold it in 1603 to Sir Thomas Smith, whose only
daughter married the Hon. Thomas Carey. It was he who pulled down the old house and built a
new one, calling it Villa Carey. Carey's daughter married Viscount Mordaunt, younger son of
the Earl of Peterborough. The house recently demolished only dated from the beginning of the
nineteenth century. Bowack describes the old house as a "very large square regular Pile, built
of brick, and has a gallery all round it upon the roof." Building of red-brick mansions and
small houses is being carried on vigorously all about here, and the face of the district has
changed very rapidly.

Wandsworth Bridge Road runs across Townmead Road to the bridge. On the south of Townmead Road
there is a small hospital for small-pox, built in 1876. Below it lies West Wharf. Eastward
acres of market-gardens extend right up to the premises of the Imperial Gasworks. This part
of the parish is called Sands End. Somewhere about here a very ancient house, called Grove
House, stood. Rocque marks it "The Grove" in 1757 and 1761. The house called Sandford Manor
is still standing, and is very little changed from the small print of it given on the title-page
of Faulkner's large edition. It is a small white house close to Stanley Bridge, and has been
often spoken of as if it were included in Chelsea. Addison, who lived here, used to date his
letters from Chelsea. Therefore the house has been more particularly described in the section
devoted to Chelsea. The Manor of Sandford is first mentioned in 1403, when Henry, Earl of Northumberland,
gave it to the Dean and Chapter of St. Martin-le-Grand in exchange for a house in Aldersgate
Street. King Henry VIII. granted the collegiate church of St. Martin and endowments to Westminster.
The Dean and Chapter of Westminster granted the manor to the King again in 1549. It was sold
by Queen Mary to the Maynards, in whose family it remained till 1756.

We have now traversed Fulham from end to end, beginning at the north-east corner, and ending
in the south-east corner close to Stanley Bridge. Fulham can boast with pride of one ancient
mansion--the palace of the Bishops of London--and of one literary reminiscence--that of Richardson--worthy
to rank, if not in the very first class, yet somewhere near it.

PUTNEY

BY J. C. GEIKIE.

The first mention made of Putney--styled "Putenhie" in the Conqueror's Domesday Book, and "Puttenheth"
in all subsequent records--is in connection with the fishery and ferry which existed here at
the time of the Conquest. In 1663 the fishery was held for the three best salmon caught in
March, April, and May, but this rent was afterwards converted to a money value. At the sale
of Sir Theodore Janssen's estates the fishery was let for £6 per annum. The rent was afterwards
increased to £8, and a lease upon those terms expired in 1780. Since 1786 this fishery has
been abandoned. Mention is also made that occasionally a porpoise was caught here, and, as
a matter of fact, two watermen shot one here lately; but it was confiscated, and the men fined
for discharging firearms on the river. The ferry at the time of the Conquest yielded 20s. a
year to the Lord of the Manor, and Putney appears at all times to have been a considerable
thoroughfare, as it was usual formerly for persons travelling from London to the West of England
to come as far as this by water. In Elizabeth's reign it was ordered that watermen should pay
a halfpenny for every stranger, and a farthing for every inhabitant of Putney, to the ferry-owner,
or be fined 2s. 6d. In 1629 the Lord of the Manor received 15s. per year for the ferry.

