In this connection it may be written that a subscription clerk in the office of the Chicago
Daily Standard, having noted a single subscriber from Canaan, was, a fortnight later, pleased
to receive, by one mail, nine subscriptions from that promising town.  If one brought nine
others in a fortnight, thought he, what would nine bring in a month? Amazingly, they brought
nothing, and the rest was silence.  Here was a matter of intricate diplomacy never to come
within that youth his ken. The morning voyage to the post-office, long mocked as a fable and
screen by the families of the sages, had grown so difficult to accomplish for one of them,
Colonel Flitcroft (Colonel in the war with Mexico), that he had been put to it, indeed, to
foot the firing-line against his wife (a lady of celebrated determination and hale-voiced at
seventy), and to defend the rental of a box which had sheltered but three missives in four
years. Desperation is often inspiration; the Colonel brilliantly subscribed for the Standard,
forgetting to give his house address, and it took the others just thirteen days to wring his
secret from him.  Then the Standard served for all.

Mail-time had come to mean that bright hour when they all got their feet on the brass rod which
protected the sills of the two big windows, with the steam-radiators sizzling like kettles
against the side wall. Mr. Jonas Tabor, who had sold his hardware business magnificently (not
magnificently for his nephew, the purchaser) some ten years before, was usually, in spite of
the fact that he remained a bachelor at seventy-nine, the last to settle down with the others,
though often the first to reach the hotel, which he always entered by a side door, because
he did not believe in the treating system. And it was Mr. Eskew Arp, only seventy-five, but
already a thoroughly capable cynic, who, almost invariably "opened the argument," and it was
he who discovered the sinister intention behind the weather of this particular morning. Mr.
Arp had not begun life so sourly: as a youth he had been proud of his given name, which had
come to him through his mother's family, who had made it honorable, but many years of explanations
that Eskew did not indicate his initials had lowered his opinion of the intelligence and morality
of the race.

The malevolence of his voice and manner this morning, therefore, when he shook his finger at
the town beyond the windows, and exclaimed, with a bitter laugh, "Look at it!" was no surprise
to his companions.  "Jest look at it!  I tell you the devil is mighty smart.  Ha, ha!  Mighty
smart!"

Through custom it was the duty of Squire Buckalew (Justice of the Peace in '59) to be the first
to take up Mr. Arp.  The others looked to him for it.  Therefore, he asked, sharply:

"What's the devil got to do with snow?"

"Everything to do with it, sir," Mr. Arp retorted.  "It's plain as day to anybody with eyes
and sense."

"Then I wish you'd p'int it out," said Buckalew, "if you've got either."

"By the Almighty, Squire"--Mr. Arp turned in his chair with sudden heat--"if I'd lived as long
as you--"

"You have," interrupted the other, stung. "Twelve years ago!"

"If I'd lived as long as you," Mr. Arp repeated, unwincingly, in a louder voice, "and had follered
Satan's trail as long as you have, and yet couldn't recognize it when I see it, I'd git converted
and vote Prohibitionist."

"I don't see it," interjected Uncle Joe Davey, in his querulous voice.  (He was the patriarch
of them all.)  "I can't find no cloven-hoof-prints in the snow."

"All over it, sir!" cried the cynic.  "All over it! Old Satan loves tricks like this.  Here's
a town that's jest one squirmin' mass of lies and envy and vice and wickedness and corruption--"

"Hold on!" exclaimed Colonel Flitcroft.  "That's a slander upon our hearths and our government.
Why, when I was in the Council--"

"It wasn't a bit worse then," Mr. Arp returned, unreasonably.  "Jest you look how the devil
fools us. He drops down this here virgin mantle on Canaan and makes it look as good as you
pretend you think it is: as good as the Sunday-school room of a country church--though THAT"--he
went off on a tangent, venomously--"is generally only another whited sepulchre, and the superintendent's
mighty apt to have a bottle of whiskey hid behind the organ, and--"

"Look here, Eskew," said Jonas Tabor, "that's got nothin' to do with--"

"Why ain't it?  Answer me!" cried Mr. Arp, continuing, without pause: "Why ain't it?  Can't
you wait till I git through?  You listen to me, and when I'm ready I'll listen to--"

"See here," began the Colonel, making himself heard over three others, "I want to ask you--"

"No, sir!" Mr. Arp pounded the floor irascibly with his hickory stick. "Don't you ask me anything!
How can you tell that I'm not going to answer your question without your asking it, till I've
got through? You listen first.  I say, here's a town of nearly thirty thousand inhabitants,
every last one of 'em--men, women, and children--selfish and cowardly and sinful, if you could
see their innermost natures; a town of the ugliest and worst built houses in the world, and
governed by a lot of saloon-keepers--though I hope it 'll never git down to where the ministers
can run it.  And the devil comes along, and in one night--why, all you got to do is LOOK at
it!  You'd think we needn't ever trouble to make it better.  That's what the devil wants us
to do--wants us to rest easy about it, and paints it up to look like a heaven of peace and
purity and sanctified spirits.  Snowfall like this would of made Lot turn the angel out-of-doors
and say that the old home was good enough for him.  Gomorrah would of looked like a Puritan
village--though I'll bet my last dollar that there was a lot, and a WHOLE lot, that's never
been told about Puritan villages.  A lot that--"

"WHAT never was?" interrupted Mr. Peter Bradbury, whose granddaughter had lately announced
her discovery that the Bradburys were descended from Miles Standish.  "What wasn't told about
Puritan villages?"

"Can't you wait?" Mr. Arp's accents were those of pain.  "Haven't I got ANY right to present
my side of the case?  Ain't we restrained enough to allow of free speech here?  How can we
ever git anywhere in an argument like this, unless we let one man talk at a time?  How--"

"Go on with your statement," said Uncle Joe Davey, impatiently.

Mr. Arp's grievance was increased.  "Now listen to YOU!  How many more interruptions are comin'?
I'll listen to the other side, but I've got to state mine first, haven't I?  If I don't make
my point clear, what's the use of the argument? Argumentation is only the comparison of two
sides of a question, and you have to see what the first side IS before you can compare it with
the other one, don't you?  Are you all agreed to that?"

"Yes, yes," said the Colonel.  "Go ahead.  We won't interrupt until you're through."

"Very well," resumed Mr. Arp, with a fleeting expression of satisfaction, "as I said before,
I wish to--as I said--" He paused, in some confusion.  "As I said, argumentation is--that is,
I say--"  He stopped again, utterly at sea, having talked himself so far out of his course
that he was unable to recall either his sailing port or his destination.  Finally he said,
feebly, to save the confession, "Well, go on with your side of it."

