Poor culprits! There is no law against kissing in the open air in Paris, and besides, the tall
girl in black has known the little "type" for a Parisienne age--thirty days or less.

The four innocents, who have coughed through their soup and whispered through the rest of the
dinner, have now finished and are leaving, but if those at the long table notice their departure,
they do not show it. In the Quarter it is considered the height of rudeness to stare. You will
find these Suzannes and Marcelles exceedingly well-bred in the little refinements of life,
and you will note a certain innate dignity and kindliness in their bearing toward others, which
often makes one wish to uncover his head in their presence.

CHAPTER IX

"THE RAGGED EDGE OF THE QUARTER"

There are many streets of the Quarter as quiet as those of a country village. Some of them,
like the rue Vaugirard, lead out past gloomy slaughter-houses and stables, through desolate
sections of vacant lots, littered with the ruins of factory and foundry whose tall, smoke-begrimed
chimneys in the dark stand like giant sentries, as if pointing a warning finger to the approaching
pedestrian, for these ragged edges of the Quarter often afford at night a lurking-ground for
footpads.

In just such desolation there lived a dozen students, in a small nest of studios that I need
not say were rented to them at a price within their ever-scanty means. It was marveled at among
the boys in the Quarter that any of these exiles lived to see the light of another day, after
wandering back at all hours of the night to their stronghold.

Possibly their sole possessions consisted of the clothes they had on, a few bad pictures, and
their several immortal geniuses. That the gentlemen with the sand-bags knew of this I am convinced,
for the students were never molested. Verily, Providence lends a strong and ready arm to the
drunken man and the fool!

The farther out one goes on the rue Vaugirard, the more desolate and forbidding becomes this
long highway, until it terminates at the fortifications, near which is a huge, open field,
kept clear of such permanent buildings as might shelter an enemy in time of war. Scattered
over this space are the hovels of squatters and gipsies--fortune-telling, horse-trading vagabonds,
whose living-vans at certain times of the year form part of the smaller fairs within the Quarter.

And very small and unattractive little fairs they are, consisting of half a dozen or more wagons,
serving as a yearly abode for these shiftless people; illumined at night by the glare of smoking
oil torches. There is, moreover, a dingy tent with a half-drawn red curtain that hides the
fortune-telling beauty; and a traveling shooting-gallery, so short that the muzzle of one's
rifle nearly rests upon the painted lady with the sheet-iron breastbone, centered by a pinhead
of a bull's-eye which never rings. There is often a small carousel, too, which is not only
patronized by the children, but often by a crowd of students--boys and girls, who literally
turn the merry-go-round into a circus, and who for the time are cheered to feats of bareback
riding by the enthusiastic bystanders.

These little Quarter fêtes are far different from the great fête de Neuilly across the Seine,
which begins at the Porte Maillot, and continues in a long, glittering avenue of side-shows,
with mammoth carousels, bizarre in looking-glass panels and golden figures. Within the circle
of all this throne-like gorgeousness, a horse-power organ shakes the very ground with its clarion
blasts, while pink and white wooden pigs, their tails tied up in bows of colored ribbons, heave
and swoop round and round, their backs loaded with screaming girls and shouting men.

It was near this very same Port Maillot, in a colossal theater, built originally for the representation
of one of the Kiralfy ballets, that a fellow student and myself went over from the Quarter
one night to "supe" in a spectacular and melodramatic pantomime, entitled "Afrique à Paris."
We were invited by the sole proprietor and manager of the show--an old circus-man, and one
of the shrewdest, most companionable, and intelligent of men, who had traveled the world over.
He spoke no language but his own unadulterated American. This, with his dominant personality,
served him wherever fortune carried him!

So, accepting his invitation to play alternately the dying soldier and the pursuing cannibal
under the scorching rays of a tropical limelight, and with an old pair of trousers and a flannel
shirt wrapped in a newspaper, we presented ourselves at the appointed hour, at the edge of
the hostile country.

Here we found ourselves surrounded by a horde of savages who needed no greasepaint to stain
their ebony bodies, and many of whose grinning countenances I had often recognized along our
own Tenderloin. Besides, there were cowboys and "greasers" and diving elks, and a company of
French Zouaves; the latter, in fact, seemed to be the only thing foreign about the show. Our
friend, the manager, informed us that he had thrown the entire spectacle together in about
ten days, and that he had gathered with ease, in two, a hundred of those dusky warriors, who
had left their coat-room and barber-shop jobs in New York to find themselves stranded in Paris.

He was a hustler, this circus-man, and preceding the spectacle of the African war, he had entertained
the audience with a short variety-show, to brace the spectacle. He insisted on bringing us
around in front and giving us a box, so we could see for ourselves how good it really was.

During this forepart, and after some clever high trapeze work, the sensation of the evening
was announced--a Signore, with an unpronounceable name, would train a den of ten forest-bred lions!

When the orchestra had finished playing "The Awakening of the Lion," the curtain rose, disclosing
the nerveless Signore in purple tights and high-topped boots. A long, portable cage had been
put together on the stage during the intermission, and within it the ten pacing beasts. There
is something terrifying about the roar of a lion as it begins with its high-keyed moan, and
descends in scale to a hoarse roar that seems to penetrate one's whole nervous system.

But the Signore did not seem to mind it; he placed one foot on the sill of the safety-door,
tucked his short riding-whip under his arm, pulled the latch with one hand, forced one knee
in the slightly opened door, and sprang into the cage. Click! went the iron door as it found
its lock. Bang! went the Signore's revolver, as he drove the snarling, roaring lot into the
corner of the cage. The smoke from his revolver drifted out through the bars; the house was
silent. The trainer walked slowly up to the fiercest lion, who reared against the bars as he
approached him, striking at the trainer with his heavy paws, while the others slunk into the
opposite corner. The man's head was but half a foot now from the lion's; he menaced the beast
with the little riding-whip; he almost, but did not quite strike him on the tip of his black
nose that worked convulsively in rage. Then the lion dropped awkwardly, with a short growl,
to his forelegs, and slunk, with the rest, into the corner. The Signore turned and bowed. It
was the little riding-whip they feared, for they had never gauged its sting. Not the heavy
iron bar within reach of his hand, whose force they knew. The vast audience breathed easier.

"An ugly lot," I said, turning to our friend the manager, who had taken his seat beside me.

"Yes," he mused, peering at the stage with his keen gray eyes; "green stock, but a swell act,
eh? Wait for the grand finale. I've got a girl here who comes on and does art poses among the
lions; she's a dream--French, too!"

A girl of perhaps twenty, enveloped in a bath gown, now appeared at the wings. The next instant
the huge theater became dark, and she stood in full fleshings, in the center of the cage, brilliant
in the rays of a powerful limelight, while the lions circled about her at the command of the
trainer.

"Ain't she a peach?" said the manager, enthusiastically.

"Yes," said I, "she is. Has she been in the cages long?" I asked.

"No, she never worked with the cats before," he said; "she's new to the show business; she
said her folks live in Nantes. She worked here in a chocolate factory until she saw my 'ad'
last week and joined my show. We gave her a rehearsal Monday and we put her on the bill next
night. She's a good looker with plenty of grit, and is a winner with the bunch in front."

"How did you get her to take the job?" I said.

"Well," he replied, "she balked at the act at first, but I showed her two violet notes from
a couple of swell fairies who wanted the job, and after that she signed for six weeks."

"Who wrote the notes?" I said, queryingly.

"I wrote 'em!" he exclaimed dryly, and he bit the corner of his stubby mustache and smiled.
"This is the last act in the olio, so you will have to excuse me. So long!" and he disappeared
in the gloom.

       *     *     *     *     *

There are streets and boulevards in the Quarter, sections of which are alive with the passing
throng and the traffic of carts and omnibuses. Then one will come to a long stretch of massive
buildings, public institutions, silent as convents--their interminable walls flanking garden
or court.

The Boulevard St. Germain is just such a highway until it crosses the Boulevard St. Michel--the
liveliest roadway of the Quarter. Then it seems to become suddenly inoculated with its bustle
and life, and from there on is crowded with bourgeoise and animated with the commerce of market
and shop.

An Englishman once was so fired with a desire to see the gay life of the Latin Quarter that
he rented a suite of rooms on this same Boulevard St. Germain at about the middle of this long,
quiet stretch. Here he stayed a fortnight, expecting daily to see from his "chambers" the gaiety
of a Bohemia of which he had so often heard. At the end of his disappointing sojourn, he returned
to London, firmly convinced that the gay life of the Latin Quarter was a myth. It was to him.

But the man from Denver, the "Steel King," and the two thinner gentlemen with the louis-lined
waistcoats who accompanied him and whom Fortune had awakened in the far West one morning and
had led them to "The Great Red Star copper mine"--a find which had ever since been a source
of endless amusement to them--discovered the Quarter before they had been in Paris a day, and
found it, too, "the best ever," as they expressed it.

They did not remain long in Paris, this rare crowd of seasoned genials, for it was their first
trip abroad and they had to see Switzerland and Vienna, and the Rhine; but while they stayed
they had a good time Every Minute.

The man from Denver and the Steel King sat at one of the small tables, leaning over the railing
at the "Bal Bullier," gazing at the sea of dancers.

"Billy," said the man from Denver to the Steel King, "if they had this in Chicago they'd tear
out the posts inside of fifteen minutes"--he wiped the perspiration from his broad forehead
and pushed his twenty-dollar Panama on the back of his head.

"Ain't it a sight!" he mused, clinching the butt of his perfecto between his teeth. "Say!--say!
it beats all I ever see," and he chuckled to himself, his round, genial face, with its double
chin, wreathed in smiles.

"Say, George!" he called to one of the 'copper twins,' "did you get on to that little one in
black that just went by--well! well!! well!!! In a minute!!"

Already the pile of saucers on their table reached a foot high--a record of refreshments for
every Yvonne and Marcelle that had stopped in passing. Two girls approach.

"Certainly, sit right down," cried the Steel King. "Here, Jack,"--this to the aged garçon,
"smoke up! and ask the ladies what they'll have"--all of which was unintelligible to the two
little Parisiennes and the garçon, but quite clear in meaning to all three.

"Dis donc, garçon!" interrupted the taller of the two girls, "un café glacé pour moi."

"Et moi," answered her companion gayly, "Je prends une limonade!"

"Here! Hold on!" thundered good-humoredly the man from Denver; "git 'em a good drink. Rye,
garsong! yes, that's it--whiskey--I see you're on, and two. Deux!" he explains, holding up
two fat fingers, "all straight, friend--two whiskeys with seltzer on the side--see? Now go
roll your hoop and git back with 'em."

"Oh, non, monsieur!" cried the two Parisiennes in one breath; "whiskey! jamais! ça pique et
c'est trop fort."

At this juncture the flower woman arrived with a basketful of red roses.

"Voulez-vous des fleurs, messieurs et mesdames?" she asked politely.

"Certainly," cried the Steel King; "here, Maud and Mamie, take the lot," and he handed the
two girls the entire contents of the basket. The taller buried her face for a moment in the
red Jaqueminots and drank in their fragrance. When she looked up, two big tears trickled down
to the corners of her pretty mouth. In a moment more she was smiling! The smaller girl gave
a little cry of delight and shook her roses above her head as three other girls passed. Ten
minutes later the two possessed but a single rose apiece--they had generously given all the
rest away.

The "copper twins" had been oblivious of all this. They had been hanging over the low balustrade,
engaged in a heart-to-heart talk with two pretty Quartier brunettes. It seemed to be really
a case of love at first sight, carried on somewhat under difficulties, for the "copper twins"
could not speak a word of French, and the English of the two chic brunettes was limited to
"Oh, yes!" "Vary well!" "Good morning," "Good evening," and "I love you." The four held hands
over the low railing, until the "copper twins" fairly steamed in talk; warmed by the sun of
gaiety and wet by several rounds of Highland dew, they grew sad and earnest, and got up and
stepped all over the Steel King and the man from Denver, and the two Parisiennes' daintily
slippered feet, in squeezing out past the group of round tables back of the balustrade, and
down on to the polished floor--where they are speedily lost to view in the maze of dancers,
gliding into the whirl with the two brunettes. When the waltz is over they stroll out with
them into the garden, and order wine, and talk of changing their steamer date.

The good American, with his spotless collar and his well-cut clothes, with his frankness and
whole-souled generosity, is a study to the modern grisette. He seems strangely attractive to
her, in contrast with a certain type of Frenchman, that is selfish, unfaithful, and mean--that
jealousy makes uncompanionable and sometimes cruel. She will tell you that these pale, black-eyed,
and black-bearded boulevardiers are all alike--lazy and selfish; so unlike many of the sterling,
good fellows of the Quarter--Frenchmen of a different stamp, and there are many of these--rare,
good Bohemians, with hearts and natures as big as all out-doors--"bons garçons," which is only
another way of saying "gentlemen."

As you tramp along back to your quarters some rainy night you find many of the streets leading
from the boulevards silent and badly lighted, except for some flickering lantern on the corner
of a long block which sends the shadows scurrying across your path. You pass a student perhaps
and a girl, hurrying home--a fiacre for a short distance is a luxury in the Quarter. Now you
hear the click-clock of an approaching cab, the cocher half asleep on his box. The hood of
the fiacre is up, sheltering the two inside from the rain. As the voiture rumbles by near a
street-light, you catch a glimpse of a pink silk petticoat within and a pair of dainty, white
kid shoes--and the glint of an officer's sword.

Farther on, you pass a silent gendarme muffled in his night cloak; a few doors farther on in
a small café, a bourgeois couple, who have arrived on a late train no doubt to spend a month
with relatives in Paris, are having a warming tipple before proceeding farther in the drizzling
rain. They have, of course, invited the cocher to drink with them. They have brought all their
pets and nearly all their household goods--two dogs, three bird-cages, their tiny occupants
protected from the damp air by several folds of newspaper; a cat in a stout paper box with
air holes, and two trunks, well tied with rope.

"Ah, yes, it has been a long journey!" sighs the wife. Her husband corroborates her, as they
explain to the patronne of the café and to the cocher that they left their village at midday.
Anything over two hours on the chemin-de-fer is considered a journey by these good French people!

As you continue on to your studio, you catch a glimpse of the lights of the Boulevard Montparnasse.
Next a cab with a green light rattles by; then a ponderous two-wheeled cart lumbers along,
piled high with red carrots as neatly arranged as cigars in a box--the driver asleep on his
seat near his swinging lantern--and the big Normandy horses taking the way. It is late, for
these carts are on their route to the early morning market--one of the great Halles. The tired
waiters are putting up the shutters of the smaller cafés and stacking up the chairs. Now a
cock crows lustily in some neighboring yard; the majority at least of the Latin Quarter has
turned in for the night. A moment later you reach your gate, feel instinctively for your matches.
In the darkness of the court a friendly cat rubs her head contentedly against your leg. It
is the yellow one that sleeps in the furniture factory, and you pick her up and carry her to
your studio, where, a moment later, she is crunching gratefully the remnant of the beau maquereau
left from your déjeuner--for charity begins at home.

CHAPTER X

EXILED

Scores of men, celebrated in art and in literature, have, for a longer or shorter period of
their lives, been bohemians of the Latin Quarter. And yet these years spent in cafés and in
studios have not turned them out into the world a devil-me-care lot of dreamers. They have
all marched and sung along the "Boul' Miche"; danced at the "Bullier"; starved, struggled,
and lived in the romance of its life. It has all been a part of their education, and a very
important part too, in the development of their several geniuses, a development which in later
life has placed them at the head of their professions. These years of camaraderie--of a life
free from all conventionalities, in daily touch with everything about them, and untrammeled
by public censure or the petty views of prudish or narrow minds, have left them free to cut
a straight swath merrily toward the goal of their ideals, surrounded all the while by an atmosphere
of art and good-fellowship that permeates the very air they breathe.

If a man can work at all, he can work here, for between the working-hours he finds a life so
charming, that once having lived it he returns to it again and again, as to an old love.

How many are the romances of this student Quarter! How many hearts have been broken or made
glad! How many brave spirits have suffered and worked on and suffered again, and at last won
fame! How many have failed! We who come with a fresh eye know nothing of all that has passed
within these quaint streets--only those who have lived in and through it know its full story.

Pochard has seen it; so has the little old woman who once danced at the opera; so have old
Bibi La Purée, and Alphonse, the gray-haired garçon, and Mère Gaillard, the flower-woman. They
have seen the gay boulevards and the cafés and generations of grisettes, from the true grisette
of years gone by, in her dainty white cap and simple dress turned low at the throat, to the
tailor-made grisette of to-day.

Yet the eyes of the little old woman still dance; they have not grown tired of this ever-changing
kaleidoscope of human nature, this paradise of the free, where many would rather struggle on
half starved than live a life of luxury elsewhere.

And the students are equally quixotic. I knew one once who lived in an air-castle of his own
building--a tall, serious fellow, a sculptor, who always went tramping about in a robe resembling
a monk's cowl, with his bare feet incased in coarse sandals; only his art redeemed these eccentricities,
for he produced in steel and ivory the most exquisite statuettes. One at the Salon was the
sensation of the day--a knight in full armor, scarcely half a foot in height, holding in his
arms a nymph in flesh-tinted ivory, whose gentle face, upturned, gazed sweetly into the stern
features behind the uplifted vizor; and all so exquisitely carved, so alive, so human, that
one could almost feel the tender heart of this fair lady beating against the cold steel breastplate.

Another "bon garçon"--a painter whose enthusiasm for his art knew no bounds--craved to produce
a masterpiece. This dreamer could be seen daily ferreting around the Quarter for a studio always
bigger than the one he had. At last he found one that exactly fitted the requirements of his
vivid imagination--a studio with a ceiling thirty feet high, with windows like the scenic ones
next to the stage entrances of the theaters. Here at last he could give full play to his brush--no
subject seemed too big for him to tackle; he would move in a canvas as big as a back flat to
a third act, and commence on a "Fall of Babylon" or a "Carnage of Rome" with a nerve that was
sublime! The choking dust of the arena--the insatiable fury of the tigers--the cowering of
hundreds of unfortunate captives--and the cruel multitude above, seated in the vast circle
of the hippodrome--all these did not daunt his zeal.

Once he persuaded a venerable old abbé to pose for his portrait. The old gentleman came patiently
to his studio and posed for ten days, at the end of which time the abbé gazed at the result
and said things which I dare not repeat--for our enthusiast had so far only painted his clothes;
the face was still in its primary drawing.

"The face I shall do in time," the enthusiast assured the reverend man excitedly; "it is the
effect of the rich color of your robe I wished to get. And may I ask your holiness to be patient
a day longer while I put in your boots?"

"No, sir!" thundered the irate abbé. "Does monsieur think I am not a very busy man?"

Then softening a little, he said, with a smile:

"I won't come any more, my friend. I'll send my boots around to-morrow by my boy."

But the longest red-letter day has its ending, and time and tide beckon one with the brutality
of an impatient jailer.

On my studio table is a well-stuffed envelope containing the documents relative to my impending
exile--a stamped card of my identification, bearing the number of my cell, a plan of the slave-ship,
and six red tags for my baggage.

The three pretty daughters of old Père Valois know of my approaching departure, and say cheering
things to me as I pass the concierge's window.

Père Valois stands at the gate and stops me with: "Is it true, monsieur, you are going Saturday?"

"Yes," I answer; "unfortunately, it is quite true."

The old man sighs and replies: "I once had to leave Paris myself"; looking at me as if he were
speaking to an old resident. "My regiment was ordered to the colonies. It was hard, monsieur,
but I did my duty."

The morning of my sailing has arrived. The patron of the tobacco-shop, and madame his good
wife, and the wine merchant, and the baker along the little street with its cobblestone-bed,
have all wished me "bon voyage," accompanied with many handshakings. It is getting late and
Père Valois has gone to hunt for a cab--a "galerie," as it is called, with a place for trunks
on top. Twenty minutes go by, but no "galerie" is in sight. The three daughters of Père Valois
run in different directions to find one, while I throw the remaining odds and ends in the studio
into my valise. At last there is a sound of grating wheels below on the gravel court. The "galerie"
has arrived--with the smallest of the three daughters inside, all out of breath from her run
and terribly excited. There are the trunks and the valises and the bicycle in its crate to
get down. Two soldiers, who have been calling on two of the daughters, come up to the studio
and kindly offer their assistance. There is no time to lose, and in single file the procession
starts down the atelier stairs, headed by Père Valois, who has just returned from his fruitless
search considerably winded, and the three girls, the two red-trousered soldiers and myself
tugging away at the rest of the baggage.

It is not often one departs with the assistance of three pretty femmes de ménage, a jolly old
concierge, and a portion of the army of the French Republic. With many suggestions from my
good friends and an assuring wave of the hand from the aged cocher, my luggage is roped and
chained to the top of the rickety, little old cab, which sways and squeaks with the sudden
weight, while the poor, small horse, upon whom has been devolved the task of making the 11.35
train, Gare St. Lazare, changes his position wearily from one leg to the other. He is evidently
thinking out the distance, and has decided upon his gait.

"Bon voyage!" cry the three girls and Père Valois and the two soldiers, as the last trunk is
chained on.

The dingy vehicle groans its way slowly out of the court. Just as it reaches the last gate
it stops.

"What's the matter?" I ask, poking my head out of the window.

"Monsieur," says the aged cocher, "it is an impossibility! I regret very much to say that your
bicycle will not pass through the gate."

A dozen heads in the windows above offer suggestions. I climb out and take a look; there are
at least four inches to spare on either side in passing through the iron posts.

"Ah!" cries my cocher enthusiastically, "monsieur is right, happily for us!"

He cracks his whip, the little horse gathers itself together--a moment of careful driving and
we are through and into the street and rumbling away, amid cheers from the windows above. As
I glance over my traps, I see a small bunch of roses tucked in the corner of my roll of rugs
with an engraved card attached. "From Mademoiselle Ernestine Valois," it reads, and on the
other side is written, in a small, fine hand, "Bon voyage."

I look back to bow my acknowledgment, but it is too late; we have turned the corner and the
rue Vaugirard is but a memory!

       *     *     *     *     *

But why go on telling you of what the little shops contain--how narrow and picturesque are
the small streets--how gay the boulevards--what they do at the "Bullier"--or where they dine?
It is Love that moves Paris--it is the motive power of this big, beautiful, polished city--the
love of adventure, the love of intrigue, the love of being a bohemian if you will--but it is
Love all the same!

"I work for love," hums the little couturière.

"I work for love," cries the miller of Marcel Legay.

"I live for love," sings the poet.

"For the love of art I am a painter," sighs Edmond, in his atelier--"and for her!"

