HUMOROUS MASTERPIECES

FROM

AMERICAN LITERATURE

EDITED BY

EDWARD T. MASON

NEW YORK & LONDON

G.P. PUTNAM'S SONS

The Knickerbocker Press

1886

COPYRIGHT G.P. PUTNAM'S SONS 1886

Press of G.P. PUTNAM'S SONS New York

CONTENTS.

  BAYARD TAYLOR
    Selections from the Experiences of the A.C.

  WILLIAM ALLEN BUTLER
    Dobbs His Ferry

  JOHN WILLIAM DE FOREST
    Father Higgins's Preferment

  JOHN TOWNSEND TROWBRIDGE
    Fred Trover's Little Iron-Clad

  OLIVER BELL BUNCE
    Mr. Bluff Discourses on the Country and Kindred Themes

  CHARLES DUDLEY WARNER
    Garden Ethics

  FRANCES LEE PRATT
    Captain Ben's Choice

  LOUISA MAY ALCOTT
    Street Scenes in Washington
    Selections from Transcendental Wild Oats

  WILLIAM WIRT HOWE
    Conversational Depravity

  CHARLES FARRAR BROWNE ("Artemus Ward")
    The Tower of London
    Science and Natural History
    From the "Lecture"

  FRANK R. STOCKTON
    Our Tavern
    A Piece of Red Calico

  HARRIETT PRESCOTT SPOFFORD
    Aunt Pen's Funeral

  SAMUEL LANGHORNE CLEMENS ("Mark Twain")
    The Celebrated Jumping Frog of Calaveras County

  FITZ HUGH LUDLOW
    Ben Thirlwall's School-days
    Selections from a Brace of Boys

  THOMAS BAILEY ALDRICH
    A Rivermouth Romance

BAYARD TAYLOR. ...--The Atlantic Monthly, February, 1862.

WILLIAM ALLEN BUTLER.

(BORN, 1825.)

       *       *       *       *       *

DOBBS HIS FERRY.

A Legend of the Lower Hudson.

  The days were at their longest,
  The heat was at its strongest,
    When Brown, old friend and true,
  Wrote thus: "Dear Jack, why swelter
  In town when shade and shelter
    Are waiting here for you?
  Quit Bulls and Bears and gambling,
  For rural sports and rambling
    Forsake your Wall Street tricks;
  Come without hesitation,
  Check to Dobbs' Ferry Station,
    We dine at half-past six."

  I went,--a welcome hearty,
  A merry country party,
    A drive, and then croquet,
  A quiet, well-cooked dinner,
  Three times at billiards winner,--
    The evening sped away;
  When Brown, the dear old joker,
  Cried, "Come, my worthy broker,
    The hour is growing late;
  Your room is cool and quiet,
  As for the bed, just try it,
    Breakfast at half-past eight."

  I took Brown's hand, applauded
  His generous care, and lauded
    Dobbs' Ferry to the skies.
  A shade came o'er his features,
  "We should be happy creatures,
    And this a paradise,
  But, ah! the deep disgrace is,
  This loveliest of places
    A vulgar name should blight!
  But, death to Dobbs! we'll change it,
  If money can arrange it,
    So, pleasant dreams; good night!"

  I could not sleep, but, raising
  The window, stood, moon-gazing,
    In fairyland a guest;
  "On such a night," et cetera--
  See Shakespeare for much better a
  Description of the rest,--
  I mused, how sweet to wander
  Beside the river, yonder;
    And then the sudden whim
  Seized my head to pillow
  On Hudson's sparkling billow,
    A midnight, moonlight swim!

  Soon thought and soon attempted;
  At once my room was emptied
    Of its sole occupant;
  The roof was low, and easily,
  In fact, quite Japanese-ily,
    I took the downward slant,
  Then, without stay or stopping,
  My first and last eaves-dropping,
    By leader-pipe I sped,
  And through the thicket gliding,
  Down the steep hillside sliding,
    Soon reached the river's bed.

  But what was my amazement,--
  The fair scene from the casement,
    How changed! I could not guess
  Where track or rails had vanished,
  Town, villas, station, banished,--
    All was a wilderness.
  Only one ancient gable,
  A low-roofed inn and stable,
    A creaking sign displayed,
  An antiquated wherry,
  Below it--"DOBBS HIS FERRY"--
    In the clear moonlight swayed.

  I turned, and there the craft was,
  Its shape 'twixt scow and raft was,
    Square ends, low sides, and flat,
  And standing close beside me,
  An ancient chap who eyed me,
    Beneath a steeple-hat;
  Short legs--long pipe--style very
  Pre-Revolutionary,--
    I bow, he grimly bobs,
  Then, with some perturbation,
  By way of salutation,
    Says I, "How are you, Dobbs!"

  He grum and silent beckoned,
  And I, in half a second,
    Scarce knowing what I did,
  Took the stern seat, Dobbs throwing
  Himself 'midships, and rowing,
    Swift through the stream we slid;
  He pulled awhile, then stopping,
  And both oars slowly dropping,
    His pipe aside he laid,
  Drew a long breath, and taking
  An attitude, and shaking
    His fist towards shore, thus said:--

  "Of all sharp cuts the keenest,
  Of all mean turns the meanest,
    Vilest of all vile jobs,
  Worse than the Cow-Boy pillagers,
  Are these Dobbs' Ferry villagers
    A going back on Dobbs!
  'Twould not be more anom'lous
  If Rome went back on Rom'lus
    (Old rum-un like myself),
  Or Hail Columbia, played out
  By Southern Dixie, laid out
    Columbus on the shelf!

  "They say 'Dobbs' ain't melodious,
  It's 'horrid,' 'vulgar,' 'odious,'
    In all their crops it sticks;
  And then the worse addendum
  Of 'Ferry' does offend 'em
    More than its vile prefix.
  Well, it does seem distressing,
  But, if I'm good at guessing,
  Each one of these same nobs,
  If there was money in it,
  Would ferry in a minute,
    And change his name to Dobbs!

  "That's it, they're not partic'lar,
  Respecting the auric'lar,
    At a stiff market rate;
  But Dobbs' especial vice is,
  That he keeps down the prices
    Of all their real estate!
  A name so unattractive
  Keeps villa-sites inactive,
    And spoils the broker's jobs;
  They think that speculation
  Would rage at 'Paulding's Station,'
    Which stagnates now at 'Dobbs.'

  "'Paulding's!"--that's sentimental!
  An old Dutch Continental,
    Bushwhacked up there a spell;
  But why he should come blustering
  Round here, and filibustering,
    Is more than I can tell;
  Sat playing for a wager,
  And nabbed a British major.
    Well, if the plans and charts
  From Andre's boots he hauled out,
  Is his name to be bawled out
    Forever, round these parts?

  "Guess not! His pay and bounty
  And mon'ment from the county
    Paid him off, every cent,
  While this snug town and station,
  To every generation,
    Shall be Dobbs' monument;
  Spite of all speculators
  And ancient-landmark traitors,
    Who, all along this shore,
  Are ever substitutin'
  The modern, highfalutin',
    For the plain names of yore.

  "Down there, on old Manhattan,
  Where land-sharks breed and fatten,
    They've wiped out Tubby Hook.
  That famous promontory,
  Renowned in song and story,
    Which time nor tempest shook,
  Whose name for aye had been good,
  Stands newly christened 'Inwood,'
    And branded with the shame
  Of some old rogue who passes
  By dint of aliases,
    Afraid of his own name!

  "See how they quite outrival,
  Plain barnyard Spuytenduyvil,
    By peacock Riverdale,
  Which thinks all else it conquers,
  And over homespun Yonkers
    Spreads out its flaunting tail!
  There's new-named Mount St. Vincent,
  Where each dear little inn'cent
    Is taught the Popish rites,--
  Well, ain't it queer, wherever
  These saints possess the river
    They get the finest sites!

  "They've named a place for Irving,
  A trifle more deserving
    Than your French, foreign saints,
  But if he has such mention,
  It's past my comprehension
    Why Dobbs should cause complaints;
  Wrote histories and such things,
  About Old Knick and Dutch things,
    Dolph Heyligers and Rips;
  But no old antiquary
  Like him could keep a ferry,
    With all his authorships!

  "By aid of these same showmen,
  Some fanciful cognomen
    Old Cro'nest stock might bring
  As high as Butter Hill is,
  Which, patronized by Willis,
    Leaves cards now as 'Storm-King!'
  Can't some poetic swell-beau
  Re-christen old Crum Elbow
    And each prosaic bluff,
  Bold Breakneck gently flatter,
  And Dunderberg bespatter,
    With euphony and stuff!

  "'T would be a magnum opus
  To bury old Esopus
    In Time's sepulchral vaults,
  Or in Oblivion's deep sea
  Submerge renowned Poughkeepsie,
    And also ancient Paltz;
  How it would give them rapture
  Brave Stony Point to capture,
    And make it face about;
  Bid Rhinebeck sound much smoother
  Than in the tongue of Luther,
    And wipe the Catskills out!

  "Well, DOBBS is DOBBS, and faster
  Than pitch or mustard-plaster
  Shall it stick hereabouts,
  While Tappan Sea rolls yonder,
  Or round High Torn the thunder
    Along these ramparts shouts.
  No corner-lot banditti,
  Or brokers from the City--
    Like you--" Here Dobbs began
  Wildly both oars to brandish,
  As fierce as old Miles Standish,
    Or young Phil Sheridan.

  Sternwards he rushed,--I, ducking,
  Seized both his legs, and chucking
    Dobbs sideways, splash he went,--
  The wherry swayed, then righted,
  While I, somewhat excited,
    Over the water bent;
  Three times he rose, but vainly
  I clutched his form ungainly,
    He sank, while sighs and sobs
  Beneath the waves seemed muttered,
  And all the night-winds uttered
    In sad tones, "Dobbs! Dobbs! Dobbs!"

  Just then some giant boulders
  Upon my head and shoulders
    Made sudden, fearful raids,
  And on my face and forehead,
  With din and uproar horrid,
    Came several Palisades;
  I screamed, and woke, in screaming,
  To see, by gaslight's gleaming,
    Brown's face above my bed;
  "Why, Jack, what is the matter?
  We heard a dreadful clatter
    And found you on the shed!

  "It's plain enough, supposing
  You sat there, moon-struck, dozing,
    Upon the window's edge,
  Then lost yourself, and falling,
  Just where we found you, sprawling,
    Struck the piazza ledge;
  A lucky hit, old fellow,
  Of black and blue and yellow
    It gives your face a touch,
  You saved your neck, but barely;
  To state the matter fairly,
    You took a drop too much!"

  I took the train next morning,
  Some lumps my nose adorning,
    My forehead, sundry knobs,
  My ideas slightly wandering,
  But, as I went, much pondering
  Upon my night with Dobbs;
  Brown thinks it, dear old sinner,
  A case of "after dinner,"
    And won't believe a word,
  Talks of "hallucination,"
  "Laws of association,"
    And calls my tale "absurd."

  Perhaps it is, but never,
  Say I, should we dissever
    Old places and old names;
  Guard the old landmarks truly,
  On the old altars duly
    Keep bright the ancient flames.
  For me the face of Nature,
  No luckless nomenclature
    Of grace or beauty robs;
  No, when of town I weary,
  I'll make a strike in Erie,
    And buy a place at DOBBS!

--Poems.

JOHN WILLIAM DE FOREST.

(BORN, 1826.)

       *       *       *       *       *

FATHER HIGGINS'S PREFERMENT.

Father Higgins was not the kind of divine who easily finds preferment in the Catholic Church,
or who would be apt to make a shining mark in any other.

Fat and red-faced and pudding-headed was Father Higgins; uncommonly in the way of good eating,
and now and then disposed for good drinking; as lazy as he dared be, ignorant enough for a
hermit, and simple enough for a monk. His chief excellence lay in his kindliness of heart,
which would doubtless have made him very serviceable and comfortable to his fellow-men, had
it not been for his indolence, his spare intellectual gifts, and perhaps a little leaven of
selfishness.

Such as he was, however, Father Higgins had no small "consate" of himself, and sometimes thought
that even a bishopric would not be "beyant his desarts." He pleased himself with imagining
how finely he would fill an episcopal chair, what apostolic labors he would accomplish in his
diocese, what swarms of heretics or pagans he would convert, what a self-sacrificing and heroic
life he would lead, and what a saintly name he would leave. One day, or to speak with a precision
worthy of this true history, one evening, he became a bishop.

It happened on this wise. Father Higgins had ventured to treat himself to a spectacle. He had
attended, for the first time in his life, an exhibition of legerdemain; this one being given
by that celebrated master of the black-art, Professor Heller. He had seen the professor change
turnips into gold watches, draw a dozen live pigeons in succession out of an empty box, send
rings into ladies' handkerchiefs at the other end of the hall, catch a bullet out of an exploded
pistol in his hand, and perform other marvels equally irrational and disturbing. From this
raree-show Father Higgins had gone home feeling that he had witnessed something about as unearthly
as he was likely to be confronted with in the next world.

For an hour or more he sat in his elbow-chair, puzzling over the professor's "diviltries,"
and crossing himself at the remembrance of each one of them. It was black midnight, and stormy
at that; there was such an uproar in the elm branches over his house as if all the Salem witches
were holding Sabbath there; the whole village of Sableburg swarmed with windy rushings and
shriekings and slammings. It was one of those midnights when the devil evidently "has business
on his hand."

Of a sudden there was a rustle in the room, and looking around to discover the cause of it,
Father Higgins beheld a tall and dark man with startling black eyes, in whom he recognized
Professor Heller.

"What's yer will, sir?" demanded the Father, a good deal astonished, but not a bit frightened.

"I understand, sir, that you would like to be a bishop," replied the professor, bowing politely,
but seating himself unceremoniously.

"That's thrue enough, sir," replied Father Higgins, who somehow felt curiously at his ease,
and disposed at once to be confidential with this utter stranger. "I've often imagined meself
a bishop, an' doin' wondhers in me office. But it's nonsinse."

"What post would suit you?" inquired the visitor. "The diocese of New York?"

"No, no," said the father. "I'm not ayqual to sich a risponsebility; that is, not at wanst,
ye ondherstand. I'd like best to come up to sich a place as that gintly an' by degrays. It's
been a drame av mine to begin my prefarmint as biship av some far-away continent or archypilago,
like, an' convart slathers av haythins an' cannebals for a practice. It ud plase me imagenation
to prache among corrils an' coky-nuts an' naked crachurs. Y' are aware, I suppose, Misther
Heller--or Professor Heller--av sich islands as Owyhee an' the Marquesas, famous a'ready in
the history av the Propaganda Fide. Jist suppose me havin' me episkepal raysedence on wan av
'um, an' makin' me progresses to the others. There be great devoshin to a spiritual father
among thim simple people, I'm thinkin.' I'd be a god to 'um, like. Sich obeyjince ud jist shuit
me. Yes, I'd enj'y bein' Biship av the Cannebal Islands, or even av wan av um."

"Faith is necessary," replied Heller. "You must believe that you are to be Bishop of the Cannibal
Islands."

"Sure an' it's not aisy at this distance to belave in the islands thimselves, let alone bein'
spiritual father av the same," smiled the priest. "Howandiver, there's no harrum in tryin'
to belave, an' so here goes for the exparimint. If ye'll kape silence a bit, I'll jist collect
me moind on the subject, an' we'll see what happens."

For a moment the gray, piggish eyes of the Father, and the black, gleaming, mysterious orbs
of his visitor were fixed upon each other. In the next moment Heller, bowing with a ceremonious
air of respect, inquired, "What are your commands, my lord bishop?"

Startled by a consciousness of some wonderful change, doubtful in what land he was, or even
in what age of the world, Father Higgins stared about him in expectation. A sunny shore, scattered
groves of cocoa-nut trees, distant villages of circular huts, beyond them far-stretching forests
and a smoking volcano; on the hither side bays alive with carved and painted canoes, near at
hand a gathering crowd of half-naked savages--such were the objects that filled his vision.

"So this is me diocese," he said, without feeling the least surprise. "Well, the climate is
deloightful. Let us hope that the coky-nuts will agree wid us, an' that the natives won't urge
upon us the blissins av martyrdom. Professor, what may be the spiritual condition av things
hereaway, do ye think?"

"A clear field--not a convert yet. Your predecessor, who went through the office of being eaten
a year ago, had not even learned the language."

"The blissid saints watch over us! To hear the likes av that, whin I expected to be a god,
like, among these wretches! Well, it's our duty we must do, Heller; we mustn't run away from
our post; indade, we can't. Moreover, I feel a sthrong confidence that the howly Catholic Church
is to be greatly glorified by me on these islands. What do ye say now to meself exhibitin'
the gift av miracles an' tongues? If I should discoorse to these cannebals in their own contimptible
language, would it surprise ye, Heller?"

"No," smiled the professor. "I have seen greater marvels in my time. I have seen men preach
not merely words, but feelings and faiths, that they were ignorant of."

Father Higgins, closely followed by Heller, now advanced to a green hillock, a few rods from
the shelly and pebbly beach, knelt down upon the thin sward, and repeated a prayer. Meantime
the population gathered; behind them canoe after canoe touched the shore; before them there
was a swift, tumultuous hurrying from the villages; presently they were surrounded by a compact,
eager, barbaric multitude. The babble of its wonder turned to silence as the priest rose, extended
his fat hands, and commenced a sermon.

Father Higgins was not a bit astonished at hearing himself pour forth a torrent of words which
he did not understand, nor at seeing in the faces of his wild listeners that they perfectly
comprehended his discourse. It was merely a supernatural inspiration; it was but another exhibition
of the heavenly gifts of the Church; he was as much at his ease as if he had been in the habit
of working miracles from his cradle. At the close of his harangue he took out his breviary,
and translated a prayer into the unknown tongue. Evidently the auditors understood this also,
for while some crouched to earth in undisguisable terror, others looked upward as if expecting
an answer from the sky.

Presently a savage, in a many-colored robe of feathers, stepped in front of the multitude,
and uttered a few sentences.

"It's a mighty quare providence that this miracle works ownly wan way," observed Father Higgins
to Heller. "It's meself can prache acceptably to this poor haythin, an' it's meself, loikewise,
can't sense a blissid word he gabbles."

"He is comparing you with your predecessor," exclaimed the professor. "He says the other man
called himself a messenger from God; but as he could not talk Feejee, they saw that he was
a liar, because God knows every language; and so, having found him a liar, they fattened him
with fish and cocoa-nuts, and ate him. As for you, they admit that you are a heavenly personage,
and they mean to worship you."

"How came ye to larn the language, annyway?" demanded the priest.

"I have wandered to and fro in the earth a good deal," replied Heller. "I have performed some
of my best black-art in these islands."

Father Higgins, rather bothered by these statements, was about to ask further questions, when
he was seized by four sturdy natives, who mounted him upon their naked shoulders, while four
others uplifted the professor in like manner, all then setting off rapidly toward the village,
followed by the whole crowd in procession.

"An' what if I should tell ye I had conscientious scruples agenst lettin' meself be adored
for a heavenly personage?" objected the good Father.

"Don't think of it," counselled Heller. "Being worshipped is infinitely more agreeable than
being eaten. Besides, consider the interests of the Church. If you are set up as a god, you
can use the position to sprinkle holy water on your adorers, and so convert the whole island
without trouble."

"Sure y' are mighty well varsed in the precepts and customs av the Jesuit Fathers," answered
the priest, with a stare of wonder and admiration. "I moind me now that the missionaries in
Chaynee baptized lashins av haythin babies under pretinse av rubbin' um with medicine. An'
it's a maxim that whin the ind is salvatory, the manes are justified. It's a maxim, also, that
y' ave no business to lead yer felly-crachurs into sin. Now cannebalism is a sin; it ud be
a sin capital for these fellies to ate us; an', av coorse, it follies that it ud be a sin in
me to timpt um to do it. But, by sufferin' meself to be worshipped I prevint that same. So,
I advise an' counsel, Heller, that we go on as we are for a bit longer, until a proper time
comes to expose the whole av the thrue faith."

Beguiling the way with such like discourse, Father Higgins journeyed on to the nearest village,
where his bearers halted before an unusually large hut, evidently serving as a temple. In the
door of this building the principal chief took post, and waving his hand toward the crowd,
made the following speech:

"Hear, O chiefs! hear, O priests of our religion ye men of Feejee, hear! The god who can come
over the waters is greater than the god who can only abide upon the land, and shall have his
house and his sacrifices. Whosoever disapproves of this, let him offer himself for the trial
of the sacred poison; if he is not ready so to do, let him hereafter hold his peace and submit."

No one objecting, the chief beckoned the bearers to follow him, and led the way into the temple.
Mounting a platform eight or ten feet high, he advanced to an ugly scarecrow of an idol, slapped
it, kicked it, and toppled it to the ground. Then, with vast labor and much joyful shouting,
the ponderous form of Father Higgins was hoisted aloft, and installed in the seat of the dethroned
deity. Next Professor Heller was set down upon his feet beside an altar which stood in front
of the platform.

"What are ye afther doin', Heller?" inquired the clergyman from his eminence.

"I am about to sacrifice to your divinity two green cocoa-nuts, two roasted bread-fruit, and
half a dozen fishes," was the answer.

"Well, I suppose it must be permitted," sighed Father Higgins. "Go on wid yer sacrifice, me
dear felly. I presume, av coorse, that it will be in ordher for me to ate some av it. Let the
fishes be well cooked, by-the-way, and sarved wid some kind av sauce. I'd almost as lave be
devoured meself as devour raw fishes."

"Really, I have some scruples," smiled the mischievous professor. "You might shock the devotional
feelings of your new worshippers."

"I insist upon it, Heller. I tell ye I won't ate raw fishes to convart a continent av haythins,
much less a little bit island av 'um."

The fish being promptly broiled on the coals of the altar, were handed up to Father Higgins
on a large leaf, together with one of the cocoa-nuts and a bread-fruit. The worthy man immediately
proceeded to make a hearty meal, vastly to the delight and confirmation in the faith of his
worshippers, they having never before been blessed with a god who could fairly and squarely
eat his dinner. After another brief speech from the chief, and a benediction from the padre,
the multitude dispersed.

"Is it me unavoidable duty to live on this perch, Heller?" demanded Father Higgins. "Me opinion
is that in that case I shall get mightily tired av me mission. I'd about as lave be a parrot,
an' sit in a tin ring."

"My dear Father, remember that blessed saint who roosted for twenty years on the top of a pillar,"
urged the professor. "Stay where you are until you have got a firm grip on the faith of these
cannibals."

"Very good," assented Higgins, with a yawn. "But get me a bucket of wather, me dear felly.
Sure I must have some blessed an' ready for use. The next time sarvice is conducted here I
propose to sprinkle the worshippers. It'll benefit um in more ways nor wan, if I'm a judge
of ayther sowl or body."

Such was the installation of Bishop Higgins, or, as the Feejeeans insisted upon considering
him, Divinity Higgins, over the diocese of the Pacific.

There was something mysterious about the Cannibal Islands. Time flew like a bird there; the
days seemed no more than minutes; they were coming, and they were gone. Events, emotions, changes
of belief, transformations of character, succeeded each other with magical rapidity. Every
thing was transacted at the wildest speed of dreams; and yet, what was strangest of all, every
thing went smoothly and naturally; nothing excited astonishment. In a few days, or a few seconds,
whatever the period of time might have been, Father Higgins enjoyed being Divinity Higgins.

"I think it best for the eventual spiritual interests av me paple that they should continue
to worship me for a while longer," he said to Heller. "Human nature in a savage state, ye see,
wont go at wan jump from a log av wood to the thrue Deity. I'm playin' the part av a steppin'-stone
betwixt the two. Afther they've larned to lift their sowls to Higgins, they'll be able to go
a bit higher, say to the saints first, an' thin to the blissid Vargin, an' so on, wan step
at a time, till they've got the whole av it. But it'll be mortial slow, I'm doubtin'. I may
have to bear an' forbear as I am for an intire gineration av the poor crachurs."

"Certainly," assented the professor. "Nothing so injurious to weak eyes as too much light."

"Y' 'ave put it in a nutshell," replied the priest. "Sure an' that's the rason we're opposed
to gineral schoolin', an' to readin' the Bible to the children. Y' are a masther mind, Heller,
an' ought to been in howly ordhers. An' that brings me to another idee av high importince.
There should be somebody to run about with howly wather an' exthrame unction, an' the like.
Now that business wouldn't shuit me pheesical conformation, an' nayther would it shuit the
character I have to bear. It's betther that you should do the outside trampin', Heller. Ye
know the tradditions an' docthrines av the Church well enough, an' y' are a dab at Latin. As
for yer not bein' av the prastely office, I'll jist lay hands on ye an' qualify ye for the
same. If it happens to be a bit irregular, why, the ind justifies the manes, ye remimber, or
the ancient Fathers are all wrong, which is onpossible. An' now, Heller, do tell these poor,
benighted, lazy loons that I must have me coky-nuts fresh, an' as great a variety av fish as
can be procured in these wathers. The chap that preshumes to bring me an owld coky-nut I'll
curse his basket an' his shtore."

After a brief missionary effort, Heller reported that the whole population of the island, barring
a few obstinate seniors, had been baptized.

"That's well, me son," replied Father Higgins. "I s'pose y' 'ave done it rather on the wholesale,
sprinklin' a hundred or so at a fling, but I've no doubt y' 'ave done it the best ye could
in the time y' 'ave had; and surely it's a great work, no matter how done. As for the apostates--I
mane the fellows that stick to their owld haythinism--it might be well to make an example av
a few av thim, jist for the encouragemint av the faithful. Suppose ye should organize an inquisition,
or howly office, Heller, an' conduct the proceedin's yerself intirely, be way av seein' that
they are regular an' effective? Y' are parfectly able for it, wid your knowledge av Church
history."

It was not long before Heller was able to state that all the old fogies and silver-grays who
remained alive had been converted.

"Ah, but isn't that blissid news!" responded Father Higgins, joyfully. "An' wouldn't me brethren,
the other biships, be glad to hear that same concernin' their dioceses! That's betther nor
coky-nuts--of which, be-the-way, I'm gettin' a bit tired. I wondher, Heller, if some av these
other islands wouldn't furnish us a change of diet? If we could find pataties an' grapes, it
ud be a blessin' to body an' sowl. Surely it ud be a good deed to bring all this archypilago
into the thrue faith. Couldn't the chafe, now, take an army out in his doubled-barrelled canoes,
an' commince the work av convarsion? Tell him if he'll do that same, I'll grant him all the
indulgences he can think av."

Another magical moment of these lightning-like days brought about important events. With an
armament of scores of canoes and hundreds of warriors the chief invaded a large island, and
was beaten in a bloody battle by its painim inhabitants, escaping with but a remnant of his
followers. Then came a counter invasion. The worshippers of Father Higgins fought for their
deity under his eye; the unbelievers were defeated and driven with great slaughter to their
dug-outs. But as the hostile fleet still held command of the sea and hovered menacingly off
the coast, keeping the faithful under arms and preventing them from fishing, the good Father
decided that peace was necessary.

"This livin' on coky-nuts and bread-fruits intirely is bad for the stomich, Heller," he observed.
"We must come to an ondherstandin' wid these raskilly infidels an' idolaters. See if ye can't
make tarms wid um."

The adroit Heller soon arranged a secret treaty with the enemy to the following effect: Their
chief, Umbaho, was to be universal king and his orthodox rival, Patoo-patoo, was to be beheaded;
polygamy, cannibalism, and the use of the sacred poison were to continue in force; both islands
were to adore Father Higgins and bring him sacrifices.

"Seems to me they're mighty sevare tarms," commented the Father. "I'd 'a been glad to get howld
av a bit av timporal sovereighnty, don't you see? Moreover, I'm sorry about that poor divil,
Patoo-patoo; he was my first convart. Annyway, I'll give um full absolution, so that death
can't hurt um sariously, an' I'll canonize him as a martyr. Saint Patoo-patoo! If that don't
satisfy um, an' if he ain't willin' to die for the extinsion av the faith, he's no thrue belayver,
and desarves no pity. So jist see to gettin' um off aisy."

After another brief period of time, such as periods of time were in these mysterious islands,
Father Higgins found himself the acknowledged divinity of the whole archipelago.

"This cannebalism an' polygamy an' the like greatly distresses me, however," he confessed to
Heller. "Be moments I'm timpted to unfold the naked truth, an' bring these paple square up
to the canons of the Church at wanst. But it ud be risky. We read av times, ye know, Heller,
that God winked at. No doubt it's me duty, as a divinity, to go on winkin' at these polygamies
an' cannebalisms a bit longer. Slow an' aisy is me motto, an' I've noticed it's the way of
Providence mostly. Sure it was so at home in Sableburg, ye know, Heller; we didn't average
a convart in twinty years."

Now ensued an event which troubled the holy Father more than any thing that had yet occurred
during his episcopate. Two German priests, Heller informed him, had landed on one of the islands
of the archipelago, and were preaching the pure doctrines of the Christian faith, denouncing
cannibalism and polygamy, and otherwise sapping the established religion.

"Some av the New Catholics, I'll warrant ye!" exclaimed Higgins, indignantly. "Some of thim
blatherskites av the Döllinger school, come over here to stir up sedition in the Church, as
though they hadn't made worry enough in the owld counthries. An' what business has Dutchmen
here, annyway, whin an Irishman has begun the good worrk? They've no right to take the labor
of convartin' these haythins out of me hands that a-way. Me conscience won't allow me to permit
such distarbances an' innovations. See if ye can't get um to lave the islands peaceable, Heller.
If they won't, I shall have to let Umbaho settle wid um afther his fashion."

An embassy to the missionaries having obtained from them no other response than that they would
welcome martyrdom rather than relinquish their labors, Umbaho was dispatched against them at
the head of a sufficient army, with instructions to treat them as enemies of Feejee and of
the unity of the Church.

But instead of slaughtering the missionaries, Umbaho was converted by them. He renounced cannibalism,
polygamy, and the sacred poison; he denied Father Higgins. Accompanied by one of the Germans,
he returned to Feejee at the head of his army, bent on establishing the true Christian faith.

"We must press a lot av min, an' beat um," responded the good Father, when Heller informed
him of the approach and purposes of the chief. "Tell the faithful to give no quarter; tell
um to desthroy ivery wan of these schismatics; an' as for the Dutchman, burrn him at the stake,
as they used to do in the good owld times."

A great battle ensued; the adherents of Higginsism were defeated and dispersed; the door of
the temple opened to Umbaho and the German. Father Higgins, by this time a helpless mass of
fat, swaying perilously on his unsteady platform, looked down upon them with terror through
the smoke of his altar.

"Sacrilegious wretch!" cried the German, God has put an end to thy mad and selfish and wicked
dominion."

"I wish I had niver been a biship!" screamed Father Higgins at the top of his voice, as he
rolled off the platform.

All the way from the Cannibal Islands he fell and tumbled and dropped, until, with a dull thump,
he alighted upon the floor of his own study.

"There! y' 'ave rolled out av yer chair agen, Father Higgins," said his housekeeper, who at
that moment entered the room to order him to bed, as was her merciful custom.

"So I have," returned the Father, picking himself up. "An' sarved me right, too. I thought
I was the biggest raskil on the face av the earth. I wondher if it's true. The Lord presarve
me from the timptation av great power, or I'll abuse it, an' abuse me felly-men and the Church!"--Harper's
Magazine, May, 1872.

JOHN TOWNSEND TROWBRIDGE.

(BORN, 1827.)

       *       *       *       *       *

FRED TROVER'S LITTLE IRON-CLAD.

Did I never tell you the story? Is it possible? Draw up your chair. Stick of wood, Harry. Smoke?

You've heard of my Uncle Popworth, though. Why, yes! You've seen him;--the eminently respectable
elderly gentleman who came one day last summer just as you were going; book under his arm,
you remember; weed on his hat; dry smile on bland countenance; tall, lank individual in very
seedy black. With him my tale begins; for if I had never indulged in an Uncle Popworth I should
never have sported an Iron-Clad.

Quite right, sir; his arrival was a surprise to me. To know how great a surprise, you must
understand why I left city, friends, business, and settled down in this quiet village. It was
chiefly, sir, to escape the fascinations of that worthy old gentleman that I bought this place,
and took refuge here with my wife and little ones. Here we had respite, respite and nepenthe
from our memories of Uncle Popworth; here we used to sit down in the evening and talk of the
past with grateful and tranquil emotions, as people speak of awful things endured in days that
are no more. To us the height of human happiness was raising green corn and strawberries, in
a retired neighborhood where uncles were unknown. But, sir, when that Phantom, that Vampire,
that Fate, loomed before my vision that day, if you had said, "Trover, I'll give ye sixpence
for this neat little box of yours," I should have said, "Done!" with the trifling proviso that
you should take my uncle in the bargain.

The matter with him? What indeed could invest human flesh with such terrors,--what but this?
he was--he is--let me shriek it in your ear--a bore--a BORE! of the most malignant type; an
intolerable, terrible, unmitigated BORE!

That book under his arm was a volume of his own sermons;--nine hundred and ninety-nine octavo
pages, O Heaven! It wasn't enough for him to preach and re-preach those appalling discourses,
but then the ruthless man must go and print 'em! When I consider what booksellers--worthy men,
no doubt, many of them, deserving well of their kind--he must have talked nearly into a state
of syncope before ever he found one to give way, in a moment of weakness, of utter exhaustion
and despair, and consent to publish him; and when I reflect what numbers of inoffensive persons,
in the quiet walks of life, have been made to suffer the infliction of that Bore's Own Book,
I pause, I stand aghast at the inscrutability of Divine Providence.

Don't think me profane, and don't for a moment imagine I underrate the function of the preacher.
There's nothing better than a good sermon,--one that puts new life into you. But what of a
sermon that takes life out of you? instead of a spiritual fountain, a spiritual sponge that
absorbs your powers of body and soul, so that the longer you listen the more you are impoverished?
A merely poor sermon isn't so bad; you will find, if you are the right kind of a hearer, that
it will suggest something better than itself; a good hen will lay to a bit of earthen. But
the discourse of your ministerial vampire, fastening by some mystical process upon the hearer
who has life of his own,--though not every one has that,--sucks and sucks and sucks; and he
is exhausted while the preacher is refreshed. So it happens that your born bore is never weary
of his own boring; he thrives upon it; while he seems to be giving, he is mysteriously taking
in--he is drinking your blood.

But you say nobody is obliged to read a sermon. O my unsophisticated friend! if a man will
put his thoughts--or his words, if thoughts are lacking--between covers,--spread his banquet,
and respectfully invite Public Taste to partake of it, Public Taste being free to decline,
then your observation is sound. If an author quietly buries himself in his book,--very good!
hic jacet; peace to his ashes!

                          "The times have been,
  That, when the brains were out, the man would die,
  And there an end; but now they rise again,"

as Macbeth observes, with some confusion of syntax, excusable in a person of his circumstances.
Now, suppose they--or he--the man whose brains are out--goes about with his coffin under his
arm, like my worthy uncle? and suppose he blandly, politely, relentlessly insists upon reading
to you, out of that octavo sarcophagus, passages which in his opinion prove that he is not
only not dead, but immortal? If such a man be a stranger, snub him; if a casual acquaintance,
met in an evil hour, there is still hope,--doors have locks, and there are two sides to a street,
and nearsightedness is a blessing, and (as a last resort) buttons may be sacrificed (you remember
Lamb's story of Coleridge), and left in the clutch of the fatal fingers. But one of your own
kindred, and very respectable, adding the claim of misfortune to his other claims upon you,--pachydermatous
to slights, smilingly persuasive, gently persistent,--as imperturbable as a ship's wooden figurehead
through all the ups and downs of the voyage of life, and as insensible to cold water;--in short,
an uncle like my uncle, whom there was no getting rid of;--what the deuce would you do?

Exactly; run away as I did. There was nothing else to be done, unless, indeed, I had throttled
the old gentleman; in which case I am confident that one of our modern model juries would have
brought in the popular verdict of justifiable insanity. But, being a peaceable man, I was averse
to extreme measures. So I did the next best thing,--consulted my wife, and retired to this village.

Then consider the shock to my feelings when I looked up that day and saw the enemy of our peace
stalking into our little Paradise with his book under his arm and his carpet-bag in his hand!
coming with his sermons and his shirts, prepared to stay a week--that is to say a year--that
is to say forever, if we would suffer him,--and how was he to be hindered by any desperate
measures short of burning the house down!

"My dear nephew!" says he, striding toward me with eager steps, as you perhaps remember, smiling
his eternally dry, leathery smile,--"Nephew Frederick!"--and he held out both hands to me,
book in one and bag in t'other,--"I am rejoiced! One would almost think you had tried to hide
away from your old uncle! for I've been three days hunting you up. And how is Dolly? she ought
to be glad to see me, after all the trouble I've had in finding you! And, Nephew Frederick!--h'm!--can
you lend me three dollars for the hackman? for I don't happen to have--thank you! I should
have been saved this if you had only known I was stopping last night at a public house in the
next village, for I know how delighted you would have been to drive over and fetch me!"

If you were not already out of hearing, you may have noticed that I made no reply to this affecting
speech. The old gentleman has grown quite deaf of late years,--an infirmity which was once
a source of untold misery to his friends, to whom he was constantly appealing for their opinions,
which they were obliged to shout in his ear. But now, happily, the world has about ceased responding
to him, and he has almost ceased to expect responses from the world. He just catches your eye,
and, when he says, "Don't you think so, sir?" or, "What is your opinion, sir?" an approving
nod does your business.

The hackman paid, my dear uncle accompanied me to the house, unfolding the catalogue of his
woes by the way. For he is one of those worthy, unoffending persons, whom an ungrateful world
jostles and tramples upon,--whom unmerciful disaster follows fast and follows faster. In his
younger days, he was settled over I don't know how many different parishes; but secret enmity
pursued him everywhere, poisoning the parochial mind against him, and driving him relentlessly
from place to place. Then he relapsed into agencies, and went through a long list of them,
each terminating in flat failure, to his ever-recurring surprise,--the simple old soul never
suspecting, to this day, who his one great, tireless, terrible enemy is!

I got him into the library, and went to talk over this unexpected visit--or visitation--with
Dolly. She bore up under it more cheerfully than could have been expected,--suppressed a sigh,--and
said she would go down and meet him. She received him with a hospitable smile (I verily believe
that more of the world's hypocrisy proceeds from too much good-nature than from too little),
and listened patiently to his explanations.

"You will observe that I have brought my bag," says he, "for I knew you wouldn't let me off
for a day or two,--though I must positively leave in a week,--in two weeks, at the latest.
I have brought my volume, too, for I am contemplating a new edition" (he is always contemplating
a new edition, making that a pretext for lugging the book about with him), "and I wish to enjoy
the advantages of your and Frederick's criticism;--I anticipate some good, comfortable, old-time
talks over the old book, Frederick!"

We had invited some village friends to come in and eat strawberries and cream with us that
afternoon; and the question arose, what should be done with the old gentleman? Harry, who is
a lad of a rather lively fancy, coming in while we were taking advantage of his great uncle's
deafness to discuss the subject in his presence, proposed a pleasant expedient. "Trot him out
into the cornfield, introduce him to the scarecrow, and let him talk to that," says he, grinning
up into the visitor's face, who grinned down at him, no doubt thinking what a wonderfully charming
boy he was! If he were as blind as he is deaf, he might have been disposed of very comfortably
in some such ingenious way;--the scarecrow, or any other lay figure, might have served to engage
him in one of his immortal monologues. As it was, the suggestion bore fruit later, as you will see.

While we were consulting--keeping up our scattering fire of small-arms under the old talker's
heavy guns--our parish minister called,--old Doctor Wortleby, for whom we have a great liking
and respect. Of course we had to introduce him to Uncle Popworth,--for they met face to face;
and of course Uncle Popworth fastened at once upon the brother clergyman. Being my guest, Wortleby
could do no less than listen to Popworth, who is my uncle. He listened with interest and sympathy
for the first half-hour; and then continued listening for another half-hour, after his interest
and sympathy were exhausted. Then, attempting to go, he got his hat, and sat with it in his
hand half an hour longer. Then he stood half an hour on his poor old gouty feet, desperately
edging toward the door.

"Ah, certainly," says he, with a weary smile, repeatedly endeavoring to break the spell that
bound him. "I shall be most happy to hear the conclusion of your remarks at some future time"
(even ministers can lie out of politeness); "but just now--"

"One word more, and I am done," cries my Uncle Popworth, for the fiftieth time; and Wortleby,
in despair, sat down again.

Then our friends arrived.

Dolly and I, who had all the while been benevolently wishing Wortleby would go, and trying
to help him off, now selfishly hoped he would remain and share our entertainment--and our Uncle
Popworth.

"I ought to have gone two hours ago," he said, with a plaintive smile, in reply to our invitation;
"but, really, I am feeling the need of a cup of tea" (and no wonder!) "and I think I will stay."

We cruelly wished that he might continue to engage my uncle in conversation; but that would
have been too much to hope from the sublime endurance of a martyr,--if ever there was one more
patient than he. Seeing the Lintons and the Greggs arrive, he craftily awaited his opportunity,
and slipped off, to give them a turn on the gridiron. First Linton was secured; and you should
have seen him roll his mute, appealing orbs, as he settled helplessly down under the infliction.
Suddenly he made a dash. "I am ignorant of these matters," said he; "but Gregg understands
them;--Gregg will talk with you." But Gregg took refuge behind the ladies. The ladies receiving
a hint from poor distressed Dolly, scattered. But no artifice availed against the dreadful
man. Piazza, parlor, garden,--he ranged everywhere, and was sure to seize a victim.

At last tea was ready, and we all went in. The Lintons and Greggs are people of the world,
who would hardly have cared to wait for a blessing on such lovely heaps of strawberries and
mugs of cream as they saw before them; but, there being two clergymen at the table, the ceremony
was evidently expected. We were placidly seated; there was a hush, agreeably filled with the
fragrance of the delicious fruit: even my uncle Popworth, from long habit, turned off his talk
at that suggestive moment: when I did what I thought a shrewd thing. I knew too well my relative's
long-windedness at his devotions, as at everything else (I wonder if Heaven itself isn't bored
by such fellows!)--I had suffered, I had seen my guests suffer, too much from him already,--to
think of deliberately yielding him a fearful advantage over us; so I coolly passed him by,
and gave an expressive nod to the old Doctor.

Wortleby began; and I was congratulating myself on my adroit management of a delicate matter,
when--conceive my consternation!--Popworth--not to speak it profanely--followed suit! The reverend
egotist couldn't take in the possibility of anybody but himself being invited to say grace
at our table, he being present;--he hadn't noticed my nod to the Doctor, and the Doctor's low,
earnest voice didn't reach him;--and there, with one blessing going on one side of the table,
he, as I said, pitched in on the other! His eyes shut, his hands spread over his plate, his
elbows on the board, his head bowed, he took care that grace should abound with us for once!
His mill started, I knew there was no stopping it, and I hoped Wortleby would desist. But he
didn't know his man. He seemed to feel that he had the stroke-oar, and he pulled away manfully.
As Popworth lifted up his loud, nasal voice, the old Doctor raised his voice, in the vain hope,
I suppose, of making himself heard by his lusty competitor. If you have never had two blessings
running opposition at your table, in the presence of invited guests, you can never imagine
how astounding, how killingly ludicrous it was! I felt that both Linton and Gregg were ready
to tumble over, each in an apoplexy of suppressed emotions; while I had recourse to my handkerchief
to hide my tears. At length, poor Wortleby yielded to fate,--withdrew from the unequal contest--hauled
off--for repairs; and the old seventy-two gun-ship thundered away in triumph.

At last (as there must be an end to everything under the sun) my uncle came to a close; and
a moment of awful silence ensued, during which no man durst look at another. But in my weak
and jelly-like condition I ventured a glance at him, and noticed that he looked up and around
with an air of satisfaction at having performed a solemn duty in a becoming manner, blissfully
unconscious of having run a poor brother off the track. Seeing us all with moist eyes and much
affected,--two or three handkerchiefs still going,--he no doubt flattered himself that the
pathetic touches in his prayer had told.

This will give you some idea of the kind of man we had on our hands; and I won't risk making
myself as great a bore as he is, by attempting a history of his stay with us; for I remember
I set out to tell you about my little Iron-Clad. I'm coming to that.

Suffice it to say, he stayed--he stayed--he STAYED!--five mortal weeks; refusing to take hints
when they almost became kicks; driving our friends from us, and ourselves almost to distraction;
his misfortunes alone protecting him from a prompt and vigorous elimination: when a happy chance
helped me to a solution of this awful problem of destiny.

More than once I had recalled Harry's vivacious suggestion of the scarecrow--if one could only
have been invented that would sit composedly in a chair and nod when spoken to! I was wishing
for some such automaton, to bear the brunt of the boring with which we were afflicted, when
one day there came a little man into the garden, where I had taken refuge.

He was a short, swarthy, foreign-looking, diminutive, stiff, rather comical fellow,--little
figure mostly head, little head mostly face, little face mostly nose, which was by no means
little--a sort of human vegetable (to my horticultural eye) running marvellously to seed in
that organ. The first thing I saw, on looking up at the sound of footsteps, was the said nose
coming toward me, among the sweet-corn tassels. Nose of a decidedly Hebraic cast,--the bearer
respectably dressed, though his linen had an unwholesome sallowness, and his cloth a shiny,
much-brushed, second-hand appearance.

Without a word he walks up to me, bows solemnly, and pulls from his pocket (I thought he was
laying his hand on his heart) the familiar, much-worn weapon of his class,--the folded, torn
yellow paper, ready to fall to pieces as you open it,--in short, the respectable beggar's certificate
of character. With another bow (which gave his nose the aspect of the beak of a bird of prey
making a pick at me) he handed the document. I found that it was dated in Milwaukee, and signed
by the mayor of that city, two physicians, three clergymen, and an editor, who bore united
testimony to the fact that Jacob Menzel--I think that was his name--the bearer, any way,--was
a deaf mute, and, considering that fact, a prodigy of learning, being master of no less than
five different languages (a pathetic circumstance, considering that he was unable to speak
one); moreover, that he was a converted Jew; and, furthermore, a native of Germany, who had
come to this country in company with two brothers, both of whom had died of cholera in St.
Louis in one day; in consequence of which affliction, and his recent conversion, he was now
anxious to return to Fatherland, where he proposed to devote his life to the conversion of
his brethren;--the upshot of all which was that good Christians and charitable souls everywhere
were earnestly recommended to aid the said Jacob Menzel in his pious undertaking.

I was fumbling in my pocket for a little change wherewith to dismiss him,--for that is usually
the easiest way of getting off your premises and your conscience the applicant for "aid," who
is probably an impostor, yet possibly not,--when my eye caught the words (for I still held
the document), "would be glad of any employment which may help to pay his way." The idea of
finding employment for a man of such a large nose and little body, such extensive knowledge
and diminutive legs--who had mastered five languages yet could not speak or understand a word
of any one of them,--struck me as rather pleasant, to say the least; yet, after a moment's
reflection,--wasn't he the very thing I wanted, the manikin, the target for my uncle?

Meanwhile he was scribbling rapidly on a small slate he had taken from his pocket. With another
bow (as if he had written something wrong and was going to wipe it out with his nose), he handed
me the slate, on which I found written in a neat hand half-a-dozen lines in as many different
languages,--English, Latin, Hebrew, German, French, Greek,--each, as far as I could make out,
conveying the cheerful information that he could communicate with me in that particular tongue.
I tried him in English, French, and Latin, and I must acknowledge that he stood the test; he
then tried me In Greek and Hebrew, and I as freely confess that I didn't stand the test. He
smiled intelligently, nodded, and condescendingly returned to the English tongue, writing quickly,--"I
am a poor exile from Fatherland, and I much need friends."

I wrote: "You wish employment?" He replied: "I shall be much obliged for any service I shall
be capable to do,"--and passed me the slate with a hopeful smile.

"What can you do?" I asked. He answered: "I copy the manuscripts, I translate from the one
language to others with some perfect exactitude, I arrange the libraries, I make the catalogues,
I am capable to be any secretary." And he looked up as if he saw in my eyes a vast vista of
catalogues, manuscripts, libraries, and Fatherland at the end of it.

"How would you like to be companion to a literary man?" I inquired.

He nodded expressively, and wrote: "I should that like overall. But I speak and hear not."

"No matter," I replied. "You will only have to sit and appear to listen, and nod occasionally."

"You shall be the gentleman?" he asked with a bright, pleased look.

I explained to him that the gentleman was an unfortunate connection of my family, whom we could
not regard as being quite in his right mind.

Jacob Menzel smiled, and touched his fore head interrogatively.

I nodded, adding on the slate,--"He is perfectly harmless; but he can only be kept quiet by
having some person to talk and read to. He will talk and read to you. He must not know you
are deaf. He is very deaf himself, and will not expect you to reply." And, for a person wishing
a light and easy employment, I recommended the situation.

He wrote at once, "How much you pay?"

"One dollar a day, and board you," I replied.

He of the nose nodded eagerly at that, and wrote, "Also you make to be washed my shirt?"

I agreed; and the bargain was closed. I got him into the house, and gave him a bath, a clean
shirt, and complete instructions how to act.

The gravity with which he entered upon the situation was astonishing. He didn't seem to taste
the slightest flavor of a joke in it all. It was a simple matter of business; he saw in it
only money and Fatherland.

Meanwhile I explained my intentions to Dolly, saying in great glee: "His deafness is his defence:
the old three-decker may bang away at him; he is IRON-CLAD!" And that suggested the name we
have called him by ever since.

When he was ready for action, I took him in tow, and ran him in to draw the Popworth's fire--in
other words, introduced him to my uncle in the library. The meeting of my tall, lank relative
and the big-nosed little Jew was a spectacle to cure a hypochondriac! "Mr. Jacob Menzel--gentleman
from Germany--travelling in this country," I yelled in the old fellow's ear. He of the diminutive
legs and stupendous nose bowed with perfect decorum, and seated himself, stiff and erect, in
the big chair I placed for him. The avuncular countenance lighted up: here were fresh woods
and pastures new to that ancient shepherd. As for myself, I was wellnigh strangled by a cough
which just then seized me, and obliged to retreat,--for I never was much of an actor, and the
comedy of that first interview was overpowering.

As I passed the dining-room door, Dolly, who was behind it, gave my arm a fearful pinch, that
answered, I supposed, in the place of a scream, as a safety-valve for her hysterical emotions.
"O you cruel man--you miserable humbug!" says she; and went off into convulsions of laughter.
The door was open, and we could see and hear every thing.

"You are travelling, h'm?" says my uncle. The nose nodded duly. "H'm! I have travelled, myself,"
the old gentleman proceeded; "my life has been one of vicissitudes, h'm! I have journeyed,
I have preached, I have published;--perhaps you have heard of my literary venture"--and over
went the big volume to the little man, who took it, turned the leaves, and nodded and smiled,
according to instructions.

"You are very kind to say so; thank you!" says my uncle, rubbing his husky hands with satisfaction.
"Rejoiced to meet with you, truly! It is always a gratification to have an intelligent and
sympathizing brother to open one's mind to; it is especially refreshing to me, for, as I may
say without egotism, my life and labors have not been appreciated."

From that the old interminable story took its start and flowed on, the faithful nose nodding
assent at every turn in that winding stream.

The children came in for their share of the fun; and for the first time in our lives we took
pleasure in the old gentleman's narration of his varied experiences.

"O hear him! see him go it!" said Robbie. "What a nose!"

"Long may it wave!" said Harry.

With other remarks of a like genial nature; while there they sat, the two,--my uncle on one
side, long, lathy, self-satisfied, gesticulating, earnestly laying his case before a grave
jury of one, whom he was bound to convince, if time would allow; my little Jew facing him,
upright in his chair, stiff, imperturbable, devoted to business, honorably earning his money,
the nose in the air, immovable, except when it played duly up and down at fitting intervals:
in which edifying employment I left them, and went about my business, a cheerier man.

Ah, what a relief it was to feel myself free for a season from the attacks of the enemy--to
know that my plucky little Iron-Clad was engaging him! In a hour I passed through the hall
again, heard the loud blatant voice still discoursing (it had got as far as the difficulties
with the second parish), and saw the unflinching nasal organ perform its graceful see-saw of
assent. An hour later it was the same,--except that the speaker had arrived at the persecutions
which drove him from parish number three. When I went to call them to dinner, the scene had
changed a little, for now the old gentleman, pounding the table for a pulpit, was reading aloud
passages from a powerful farewell sermon preached to his ungrateful parishioners. I was sorry
I couldn't give my man a hint to use his handkerchief at the affecting periods, for the nose
can hardly be called a sympathetic feature (unless indeed you blow it), and these nods were
becoming rather too mechanical, except when the old gentleman switched off on the argumentative
track, as he frequently did. "What think you of that?" he would pause in his reading to inquire.
"Isn't that logic? isn't that unanswerable?" In responding to which appeals nobody could have
done better than my serious, my devoted, my lovely little Jew.

"Dinner!" I shouted over my uncle's dickey. It was almost the only word that had the magic
in it to rouse him from the feast of reason which his own conversation was to him. It was always
easy to head him toward the dining-room--to steer him into port for necessary supplies. The
little Iron-Clad followed in his wake. At table, the old gentleman resumed the account of his
dealings with parish number three, and got on as far as negotiations with number four; occasionally
stopping to eat his soup or roast-beef very fast; at which time Jacob Menzel, who was very
much absorbed in his dinner, but never permitted himself to neglect business for pleasure,
paused at the proper intervals, with his spoon or fork half-way to his mouth, and nodded,--just
as if my uncle had been speaking,--yielding assent to his last remarks after mature consideration,
no doubt the old gentleman thought.

The fun of the thing wore off after a while, and then we experienced the solid advantages of
having an Iron-Clad in the house; Afternoon--evening--the next day--my little man of business
performed his function promptly and assiduously. But in the afternoon of the second day he
began to change perceptibly. He wore an aspect of languor and melancholy that alarmed me. The
next morning he was pale, and went to his work with an air of sorrowful resignation.

"He is thinking of Fatherland," said the sympathizing Dolly; while Harry's less refined but
more sprightly comment was, that the nose had about played out.

Indeed it had almost ceased to wave; and I feared that I was about to lose a most valuable
servant, whose place it would be impossible to fill. Accordingly I wrote on a slip of paper,
which I sent in to him,"--

"You have done well, and I raise your salary to a dollar and a quarter a day. Your influence
over our unfortunate relative is soothing and beneficial. Go on as you have begun,--continue
in well-doing, and merit the lasting gratitude of an afflicted family."

That seemed to cheer him a little--to wind him up, as Harry said, and set the pendulum swinging
again. But it was not long before the listlessness and low spirits returned; Menzel showed
a sad tendency to shirk his duty; and before noon there came a crash.

I was in the garden, when I heard a shriek of rage and despair, and saw the little Jew coming
toward me with frantic gestures.

"I yielt! I abandone! I take my moneys and my shirt, and I go!" says he.

I stood in perfect astonishment at hearing the dumb speak; while he threw his arms wildly above
his head, exclaiming:

"I am not teaf! I am not teaf! I am not teaf! He is one terreeble mon! He vill haf my life!
So I go--I fly--I take my moneys and my shirt--I leafe him, I leafe your house! I vould earn
honest living, but--Gott im himmel! dieu des dieux! all de devils!" he shrieked, mixing up
several of his languages at once, in his violent mental agitation.

"Jacob Menzel!" said I, solemnly, "I little thought I was having to do with an impostor!"

"If I haf you deceive, I haf myself more dan punish!" was his reply. "Now I resign de position.
I ask for de moneys and de shirt, and I part!"

Just then my uncle came up, amazed at his new friend's sudden revolt and flight, and anxious
to finish up with his seventh parish. "I vill hear no more of your six, of your seven,--I know
not how many parish!" screamed the furious little Jew, turning on him.

"What means all this?" said my bewildered uncle.

"I tell you vat means it all!" the vindictive little impostor, tiptoeing up to him, yelled
at his cheek. "I make not vell my affairs in your country; I vould return to Faderlant; for
conwenience I carry dis pappeer. I come here; I am suppose teaf; I accept de position to be
your companion, for if a man hear, you kill him tead soon vid your book and your ten, twenty
parish! I hear! you kill me! and I go!"

And, having obtained his moneys and his shirt, he went. That is the last I ever saw of my little
Iron-Clad. I remember him with gratitude, for he did me good service, and he had but one fault,
namely, that he was not iron-clad!

As for my uncle, for the first time in his life, I think, he said never a word, but stalked
into the house. Dolly soon came running out to ask what was the matter; Popworth was actually
packing his carpet-bag! I called Andrew, and ordered him to be in readiness with the buggy
to take the old gentleman over to the railroad.

"What! going?" I cried, as my uncle presently appeared, bearing his book and his baggage.

"Nephew Frederick!" said he, "after this treatment, can you ask me if am going?"

"Really," I shouted, "it is not my fault that the fellow proved an impostor. I employed him
with the best of intentions, for your--and our--good!" "Nephew Frederick," said he, "this is
insufferable; you will regret it! I shall never--NEVER" (as if he had been pronouncing my doom)--"accept
of your hospitalities again!"

He did, however, accept some money which I offered him, and likewise a seat in the buggy. I
watched his departure with joy and terror,--for at any moment he might relent and stay nor
was I at ease in my mind until I saw Andrew come riding back alone.

We have never seen the old gentleman since But last winter I received a letter from him he
wrote in a forgiving tone, to inform me that he had been appointed chaplain in a prison, and
to ask for a loan of money to buy a suit of clothes. I sent him fifty dollars and my congratulations.
I consider him eminently qualified to fill the new situation. As a hardship he can't be beat;
and what are the rogues sent to prison for, but to suffer punishment?

Yes, it would be a joke if my little Iron-Clad should end his career of imposture in that public
institution, and sit once more under my excellent uncle! But I can't wish him any such misfortune.
His mission to us was one of mercy. The place has been Paradise again, ever since his visit.--Scribners
Magazine, August, 1873.

OLIVER BELL BUNCE.

(BORN, 1828.)

       *       *       *       *       *

MR. BLUFF DISCOURSES OF THE COUNTRY AND KINDRED THEMES.

(In a Country Lane.)

BACHELOR BLUFF. A LISTENER.

"The country," exclaimed Mr. Bluff, with an air of candor and impartiality, "is, I admit, a
very necessary and sometimes a very charming place. I thank Heaven for the country when I eat
my first green peas, when the lettuce is crisp, when the potatoes are delicate and mealy, when
the well-fed poultry comes to town, when the ruddy peach and the purple grape salute me at
the fruit-stands. I love the country when I think of a mountain ramble; when I am disposed
to wander with rod and reel along the forest-shadowed brook; when the apple-orchards are in
blossom; when the hills blaze with autumn foliage. But I protest against the dogmatism of rural
people, who claim all the cardinal and all the remaining virtues for their rose-beds and cabbage-patches.
The town, sir, bestows felicities higher in character than the country does; for men and women,
and the works of men and women, are always worthier our love and concern than the rocks and
the hills ...

--"Oh, yes! I have heard before of the pleasures of the garden. Poets have sung, enthusiasts
have written, and old men have dreamed of them since History began her chronicles. But have
the pains of the garden ever been dwelt upon? Have people, now, been entirely honest in what
they have said and written on this theme? When enthusiasts have told us of their prize pears,
their early peas of supernatural tenderness, their asparagus, and their roses, and their strawberries,
have they not hidden a good deal about their worm-eaten plums--about their cherries that were
carried off by armies of burglarious birds; about their potatoes that proved watery and unpalatable;
about their melons that fell victims to their neighbors' fowls; about their peaches that succumbed
to the unexpected raid of Jack Frost; about their grapes that fell under the blight of mildew;
about their green corn that withered in the hill; about the mighty host of failures that, if
all were told, would tower in high proportion above the few much blazoned successes?

"Who is it that says a garden is a standing source of pleasure? Amend this, I say, by asserting
that a garden is a standing source of discomfort and vexation ... A hopeless restlessness,
according to my observation, takes possession of every amateur gardener. Discontent abides
in his soul. There is, indeed, so much to be done, changed, rearranged, watched, nursed, that
the amateur gardener is really entitled to praise and generous congratulations when one of
his thousand schemes comes to fruition. We ought in pity to rejoice with him over his big Lawton
blackberries, and say nothing of the cherries, and the pears, and the peaches, that once were
budding hopes, but have gone the way of Moore's 'dear gazelle.' Then the large expenditures
which were needed to bring about his triumph of the Lawtons. 'Those potatoes,' said an enthusiastic
amateur gardener to me once, 'cost twenty-five cents apiece!' And they were very good potatoes,
too--almost equal to those that could be bought in market at a dollar a bushel.

"And then, amateur gardeners are feverishly addicted to early rising. Men with gardens are
like those hard drinkers whose susceptibilities are hopelessly blunted. Who but a man diverted
from the paths of honest feeling and natural enjoyment, possessed of a demoniac mania, lost
to the peace and serenity of the virtuous and the blessed, could find pleasure amid the damps,
and dews, and chills, and raw-edgedness of a garden in the early morning, absolutely find pleasure
in saturated trousers, in shoes swathed in moisture, in skies that are gray and gloomy, in
flowers that are, as Mantalini would put it, 'demnition moist'? The thing is incredible! Now,
a garden, after the sun has dried the paths, warmed the air, absorbed the dew, is admissible.
But a possession that compels an early turning out into fogs and discomforts deserves for this
fact alone the anathema of all rational beings.

"I really believe, sir, that the literature of the garden, so abundant everywhere, is written
in the interest of suburban land-owners. The inviting one-sided picture so persistently held
up is only a covert bit of advertising, intended to seduce away happy cockneys of the town--men
supremely contented with their attics, their promenades in Fifth Avenue, their visits to Central
Park, where all is arranged for them without their labor or concern, their evenings at the
music gardens, their soft morning slumbers, which know no dreadful chills and dews! How could
a back-ache over the pea-bed compensate for these felicities? How could sour cherries, or half-ripe
strawberries, or wet rosebuds, even if they do come from one's own garden, reward him for the
lose of the ease and the serene conscience of one who sings merrily in the streets, and cares
not whether worms burrow, whether suns burn, whether birds steal, whether winds overturn, whether
droughts destroy, whether floods drown, whether gardens flourish, or not?"--Bachelor Bluff:
his Opinions, Sentiments, and Disputations.

CHARLES DUDLEY WARNER.

(BORN, 1829.)

       *       *       *       *       *

GARDEN ETHICS.

THE PLUMBER. Nor had they any of that impetuous hurry that is said to be the bane of our American
civilization. To their credit be it said, that I never observed any thing of it in them.

FRANCES LEE PRATT.

(BORN, 1830.)

       *       *       *       *       *

CAPTAIN BEN'S CHOICE.

An old red house on a rocky shore, with a fisherman's blue boat rocking on the bay, and two
white sails glistening far away over the water. Above, the blue, shining sky; and below, the
blue shining sea.

"It seems clever to have a pleasant day," said Mrs. Davids, sighing.

Mrs. Davids said every thing with a sigh, and now she wiped her eyes also on her calico apron.
She was a woman with a complexion like faded sea-weed, who seemed always pitying herself.

"I tell them," said she, "I have had real hard luck. My husband is buried away off in California,
and my son died in the army, and he is buried away down South. Neither one of them is buried
together."

Then she sighed again. Twice, this time.

"And so," she continued, taking out a pinch of bayberry snuff, "I am left alone in the world.
Alone, I say! why, I've got a daughter, but she is away out West. She is married to an engineer-man.
And I've got two grandchildren."

Mrs. Davids took the pinch of bayberry and shook her head, looking as though that was the "hardest
luck" of all.

"Well, everybody has to have their pesters, and you'll have to take yours," rejoined Miss Persis
Tame, taking a pinch of snuff--the real Maccaboy--twice as large, with twice as fierce an action.
"I don't know what it is to bury children, nor to lose a husband; I s'pose I don't; but I know
what it is to be jammed round the world and not have a ruff to stick my head under. I wish
I had all the money I ever spent travelling,--and that's twelve dollars," she continued, regretfully.

"Why in the world don't you marry and have a home of your own," sighed Mrs. Davids.

"Well, I don't expect to marry. I don't know as I do at my time of life," responded the spinster.
"I rather guess my day for chances is gone by."

"You ain't such a dreadful sight older than I am, though," replied Mrs. Davids, reflectively.

"Not so old by two full years," returned Miss Tame, taking another smart pinch of snuff, as
though it touched the empty spot in her heart and did it good. "But you ain't looking out for
opportunities yet, I suppose."

Mrs. Davids sighed, evasively. "We can't tell what is before us. There is more than one man
in want of a wife."

As though to point her words, Captain Ben Lundy came in sight on the beach, his head a long
way forward and his shambling feet trying in vain to keep up.

"Thirteen months and a half since Lyddy was buried," continued Mrs. Davids, accepting this
application to her words, "and there is Captain Ben taking up with just what housekeeper he
can get, and no housekeeper at all. It would be an excellent home for you, Persis. Captain
Ben always had the name of making a kind husband."

She sighed again, whether from regret for the bereaved man, or for the multitude of women bereft
of such a husband.

By this time Captain Ben's head was at the door.

"Morning!" said he, while his feet were coming up. "Quite an accident down here below the lighthouse
last night. Schooner ran ashore in the blow and broke all up into kindling-wood in less than
no time. Captain Tisdale's been out looking for dead bodies ever since daylight."

"I knowed it," sighed Mrs. Davids. "I heard a rushing sound sometime about the break of day
that waked me out of a sound sleep, and I knowed then there was a spirit leaving its body.
I heard it the night Davids went, or I expect I did. It must have been very nearly at that time."

"Well, I guess it wasn't a spirit, last night," said Captain Ben; "for as I was going on to
say, after searching back and forth, Captain Tisdale came upon the folks, a man and a boy,
rolled up in their wet blankets asleep behind the life-boat house. He said he felt like he
could shake them for staying out in the wet. Wrecks always make for the lighthouse, so he s'posed
those ones were drowned to death, sure enough."

"Oh, then it couldn't have been them, I was warned of!" returned Mrs. Davids, looking as though
she regretted it. "It was right over my head, and I waked up just as the thing was rushing
past. You haven't heard, have you," she continued, "whether or no there was any other damage
done by the gale?"

"I don't know whether you would call it damage exactly," returned Captain Ben; "but Loizah
Mullers got so scared she left me and went home. She said she couldn't stay and run the chance
of another of our coast blows, and off she trapsed."

Mrs. Davids sighed like November. "So you have some hard luck as well as myself. I don't suppose
you can get a housekeeper to keep her long," said she, dismally.

"Abel Grimes tells me it is enough sight easier getting wives than housekeepers, and I'm some
of a mind to try that tack," replied Captain Ben, smiling grimly.

Mrs. Davids put up her hand to feel of her back hair, and smoothed down her apron; while Miss
Persis Tame blushed like a withered rose, and turned her eyes modestly out of the window.

"I am so. But the difficulty is, who will it be? There are so many to select from it is fairly
bothersome," continued Captain Ben, winking fast and looking as though he was made of dry corncobs
and hay.

Miss Persis Tame turned about abruptly. "The land alive!" she ejaculated with such sudden emphasis
that the dishes shook on their shelves and Captain Ben in his chair. "It makes me mad as a
March hare to hear men go on as though all they'd got to do was to throw down their handkerchers
to a woman, and, no matter who, she'd spring and run to pick it up. It is always 'Who will
I marry?' and not 'Who will marry me?'"

"Why, there is twice the number of widders that there is of widderers here at the P'int. That
was what was in my mind," said Captain Ben, in a tone of meek apology. "There is the Widow
Keens, she that was Azubah Muchmore. I don't know but what she would do; Lyddy used to think
every thing of her, and she is a first-rate of a housekeeper."

"Perhaps so," assented Mrs. Davids, dubiously. "But she is troubled a sight with the head complaint;
I suppose you know she is. That is against her."

"Yes," assented Miss Tame. "The Muchmores all have weak heads. And, too, the Widow Keens, she's
had a fall lately. She was up in a chair cleaning her top buttery shelf, and somehow one of
the chair-leg's give way,--it was loose or something, I expect,--and down she went her whole
heft. She keeps about, but she goes with two staves."

"I want to know if that is so," said Captain Ben, his honest soul warming with sudden sympathy.
"The widder has seen a sight of trouble."

"Yes, she has lived through a good deal, that woman has. I couldn't live through so much, 'pears
to me; but we don't know what we can live through," rejoined Miss Tame.

Captain Ben did not reply, but his ready feet began to move to and fro restlessly; for his
heart, more ready yet, had already gone out toward the unfortunate widow.

"It is so bad for a woman to be alone," said he to himself, shambling along the shingly beach
a moment after. "Nobody to mend her chairs or split up her kindlings, or do a chore for her;
and she lame into the bargain. It is too bad."

"He has steered straight for the Widow Keens's, as sure as A is apple-dumpling," remarked Miss
Persis, peering after him from the window.

"Well, I must admit I wouldn't have thought of Captain Ben's being en-a-mored after such a
sickly piece of business. But men never know what they want. Won't you just hand me that gum-cam-phyer
bottle, now you are up? It is on that chest of drawers behind you."

"No more they don't," returned Miss Tame, with a plaintive cadence, taking a sniff from the
camphor-bottle on the way. "However, I don't begrutch him to her,--I don't know as I do. It
will make her a good hum, though, if she concludes to make arrangements."

Meantime, Captain Ben Lundy's head was wellnigh to Mrs. Keens's door, for it was situated only
around the first sand-hill. She lived in a little bit of a house that looked as though it had
been knocked together for a crockery-crate, in the first place, with two windows and a rude
door thrown in as afterthoughts. In the rear of this house was another tiny building, something
like a grown-up hen-coop; and this was where Mrs. Keens carried on the business bequeathed
to her by her deceased husband, along with five small children, and one not so small. But,
worse than that, one who was "not altogether there," as the English say.

She was about this business now, dressed in a primitive sort of bloomer, with a wash-tub and
clothes-ringer before her, and an army of bathing-suits of every kind and color flapping wildly
in the fresh sea air at one side.

From a little farther on, mingling with the sound of the beating surf, came the merry voices
of bathers,--boarders at the great hotels on the hill.

"Here you be! Hard at it!" said Captain Ben, puffing around the corner like a portable west-wind.
I've understood you've had a hurt. Is that so?"

"Oh, no! Nothing to mention," returned Mrs. Keens, turning about a face bright and cheerful
as the full moon; and throwing, as by accident, a red bathing-suit over the two broomsticks
that leaned against her tub.

Unlike Mrs. Davids, Mrs. Keens neither pitied herself nor would allow anybody else to do so.

"Sho!" remarked Captain Ben, feeling defrauded. He had counted on sacrificing himself to his
sympathies, but he didn't give up yet. "You must see some pretty tough times 'pears to me with
such a parcel of little ones, and only yourself to look to," said he, proceeding awkwardly
enough to hang the pile of wrung-out clothes upon an empty line.

"I don't complain," returned the widow, bravely. "My children are not teusome; and Jack, why
you would be surprised to see how many things Jack can do, for all he isn't quite right."

As she spoke thus with affectionate pride, Jack came up wheeling a roughly made cart filled
with wet bathing clothes from the beach. He looked up at sound of his mother's voice with something
of the dumb tenderness of an intelligent dog. "Jack helps, Jack good boy," said he, nodding
with a happy smile.

"Yes, Jack helps. We don't complain," repeated the mother.

"It would come handy, though, to have a man around to see to things and kind o' provide, wouldn't
it, though?" persisted Captain Ben.

"Some might think so," replied Mrs. Keens, stopping her wringer to reflect a little. "But I
haven't any wish to change my situation," she added, decidedly, going on again with her work.

"Sure on 't?" persisted the Captain.

"Certain," replied the widow.

Captain Ben sighed. "I thought ma'be you was having a hard row to hoe, and I thought like enough--"

What he never said, excepting by a beseeching glance at the cheerful widow, for just then an
interruption came from some people after bathing-suits.

So Captain Ben moved off with a dismal countenance. But before he had gone far it suddenly
brightened. "It might not be for the best," quoth he to himself, "Like enough not. I was very
careful not to commit myself, and I am very glad I didn't." He smiled as he reflected on his
judicious wariness. "But, however," he continued, "I might as well finish up this business
now. There is Rachel Doolittle. Who knows but she'd make a likely wife? Lyddy sot a good deal
by her. She never had a quilting or a sewing bee but what nothing would do but she must give
Rachel Doolittle an invite. Yes; I wonder I never decided on her before. She will be glad of
a home sure enough, for she haves to live around, as it were, upon her brothers."

Captain Ben's feet quickened themselves at these thoughts, and had almost overtaken his head,
when behold! at a sudden turn in the road there stood Miss Rachel Doolittle, picking barberries
from a wayside bush. "My sakes! If she ain't right here, like Rachel in the Bible!" ejaculated
Captain Ben, taking heart at the omen.

Miss Doolittle looked up from under her tied-down brown hat in surprise at such a salutation.
But her surprise was increased by Captain Ben's next remark.

"It just came into my mind," said he, "that you was the right one to take Lyddy's place. You
two used to be such great knit-ups that it will seem 'most like having Lyddy back again. No,"
he continued, after a little reflection, "I don't know of anybody I had rather see sitting
in Lyddy's chair and wearing Lyddy's things than yourself."

"Dear me, Captain Lundy, I couldn't think of it. Paul's folks expect me to stay with them while
the boarder-season lasts, and I've as good as promised Jacob's wife I'll spend the winter with
her."

"Ain't that a hard life you are laying out for yourself? And then bum-by you will get old or
sick ma' be, and who is going to want you around then? Every woman needs a husband of her own
to take care of her."

"I'm able to take care of myself as yet, thanks to goodness! And I am not afraid my brothers
will see me suffer in case of sickness," returned Miss Doolittle, her cheeks flaming up like
a sumach in October.

"But hadn't you better take a little time to think it over? Ma' be it come sudden to you,"
pleaded Captain Ben.

"No, I thank you. Some things don't need thinking over," answered Miss Doolittle, plucking
at the barberries more diligently than ever.

"I wish Lyddy was here. She would convince you you were standing in your own light," returned
Lyddy's widower in a perplexed tone.

"I don't need one to come from the dead to show me my own mind," retorted Miss Doolittle, firmly.

"Well, like enough you are right," said Captain Ben, mildly, putting a few stems of barberries
in her pail; "ma' be it wouldn't be best. I don't want to be rash."

And with that he moved off, on the whole congratulating himself he had not decided to marry
Miss Doolittle.

"I thought after she commenced her miserable gift of the gab, that Lyddy used to be free to
admit she had a fiery tongue, for all they were such friends. And I'm all for peace myself.
I guess, on the whole, ma' be she ain't the one for me, perhaps, and it is as well to look
further. Why! what in the world! Well, there! what have I been thinking of? There is Mrs. Davids,
as neat as a new cent, and the master hand to save. She is always taking on; and she will be
glad enough to have somebody to look out for her,--why, sure enough! And there I was right
at her house this very day, and never once thought of her! What an old dunce!"

But, fortunately, this not being a sin of commission, it could easily be rectified; and directly
Captain Ben had turned about and was trotting again toward the red house on the beach.

"Pound for pound of the best white sugar," he heard Miss Tame say as he neared the door.

"White, sugar!" repeated Mrs. Davids, her usual sigh drawn out into a little groan. "White
sugar for cram berries! Who ever heard of such a thing? I've always considered I did well when
I had plenty of brown."

"Poor creeter!" thought Captain Ben. "How she will enjoy getting into my pantry. Lyddy never
complained that she didn't have enough of every thing to do with"

And in the full ardor of his intended benevolence, he went right in and opened the subject
at once. But, to his astonishment, Mrs. Davids refused him. She sighed, but she refused him.

"I've seen trouble enough a'ready, without my rushing into more with my eyes wide open," sighed
she.

"Trouble? Why, that is just what I was meaning to save you!" exclaimed the bewildered widower.
"Pump right in the house, and stove e'enamost new. And Lyddy never knew what it was to want
for a spoonful of sugar or a pound of flour. And such a handy buttery and sink! Lyddy used
to say she felt the worst about leaving her buttery of any thing."

"Should thought she would," answered Mrs. Davids, forgetting to sigh. "However, I can't say
that I feel any hankering after marrying a buttery. I've got buttery-room enough here, without
the trouble of getting set up in a new place."

"Just as you say," returned the rejected. "I ain't sure as you'd be exactly the one. I was
a thinking of looking for somebody a little younger."

"Well, here is Persis Tame. Why don't you bespeak her? She is younger, and she is in need of
a good home. I can recommend her, too, as the first-rate of a cook," remarked Mrs. Davids,
benevolently.

Miss Tame had been sitting a little apart by the open window, smiling to herself.

But now she turned about at once. "Hm!" said she, with contempt. "I should rather live under
an umbrella tied to a stake, than marry for a hum."

So Captain Ben went home without engaging either wife or housekeeper.

And the first thing he saw was Captain Jacob Doolittle's old one-eyed horse eating the apples
Loizah Mullers had strung and festooned from nails against the house, to dry.

The next thing he saw was, that, having left a window open, the hens had flown in and gone
to housekeeping on their own account. But they were not, like Mrs. Davids, as neat as a new
cent, and not, also, such master hands to save.

"Shoo! shoo! Get out. Go 'long there with you!" cried Captain Ben, waving the dish-cloth and
the poker. "I declare for 't! I most hadn't ought to have left that bread out on the table.
They've made a pretty mess of it, and it is every spec there is in the house too. Well, I must
make a do of potatoes for supper, with a bit of pie and a mouthful of cake."

Accordingly he went to work building a fire that wouldn't burn. Then, forgetting the simple
matter of dampers, the potatoes wouldn't bake. The tea-kettle boiled over and cracked the stove,
and after that boiled dry and cracked itself. Finally the potatoes fell to baking with so much
ardor that they overdid it and burnt up. And, last of all, the cake-jar and pie-cupboard proved
to be entirely empty. Loizah had left on the eve of baking-day.

"The old cat! Well, I'd just as soon live on slapjacks a spell," said Captain Ben, when he
made this discovery.

But even slapjacks palled on his palate, especially when he had them always to cook for himself.

"'T ain't no way to live, this ain't," said he at last. "I'm a good mind to marry as ever I
had to eat."

So he put on his hat and walked out. The first person he met was Miss Persis Tame, who turned
her back and fell to picking thoroughwort blossoms as he came up.

"Look a here," said he, stopping short, "I'm dreadful put to 't. I can't get ne'er a wife nor
ne'er a housekeeper, and I am e'enamost starved to death. I wish you would consent to marry
with me, if you feel as if you could bring your mind to it. I am sure it would have been Lyddy's
wish."

Miss Tame smelt of the thoroughwort blossoms.

"It comes pretty sudden on me," she replied. "I hadn't given the subject any thought. But you
are to be pitied in your situation."

"Yes. And I'm dreadful lonesome. I've always been used to having Lyddy to talk over things
with, and I miss her a sight. And I don't know anybody that has her ways more than you have.
You are a good deal such a built woman, and you have the same hitch to your shoulders when
you walk. You've got something the same look to your eyes, too; I noticed it last Sunday in
meeting-time," continued the widower, anxiously.

"I do feel for you. A man alone is in a deplorable situation," replied Miss Tame. "I'm sure
I'd do any thing in my power to help you."

"Well, marry with me then. That is what I want. We could be real comfortable together. I'll
go for the license this minute, and we'll be married right away," returned the impatient suitor.
"You go up to Elder Crane's, and I'll meet you there as soon as I can fetch around."

Then he hurried away, "without giving me a chance to say 'no,'" said "she that was" Persis
Tame, afterward. "So I had to marry with him, as you might say. But I've never seen cause to
regret it, I've got a first-rate of a hum, and Captain Ben makes a first-rate of a husband.
And no hain't he, I hope, found cause to regret it," she added, with a touch of wifely pride;
"though I do expect he might have had his pick among all the single women at the Point; but
out of them all he chose me."--The Atlantic Monthly, March, 1870.

LOUISA MAY ALCOTT.

(BORN, 1832.)

       *       *       *       *       *

STREET SCENES IN WASHINGTON.

The mules were my especial delight; and an hour's study of a constant succession of them introduced
me to many of their characteristics; for six of these odd little beasts drew each army wagon,
and went hopping like frogs through the stream of mud that gently rolled along the street.
The coquettish mule had small feet, a nicely trimmed tassel of a tail, perked-up ears, and
seemed much given to little tosses of the head, affected skips and prances; and, if he wore
the bells, or were bedizened with a bit of finery, put on as many airs as any belle. The moral
mule was a stout, hardworking creature, always tugging with all his might; often pulling away
after the rest had stopped, laboring under the conscientious delusion that food for the entire
army depended upon his private exertions. I respected this style of mule; and, had I possessed
a juicy cabbage, would have pressed it upon him, with thanks for his excellent example. The
histrionic mule was a melodramatic quadruped, prone to startling humanity by erratic leaps,
and wild plunges, much shaking of his stubborn head, and lashing out of his vicious heels;
now and then falling flat, and apparently dying a la Forrest; a gasp--a squirm--a flop, and
so on, till the street was well blocked up, the drivers all swearing like demons in bad hats,
and the chief actor's circulation decidedly quickened by every variety of kick, cuff, jerk,
and haul. When the last breath seemed to have left his body, and "doctors were in vain," a
sudden resurrection took place; and if ever a mule laughed with scornful triumph, that was
the beast, as he leisurely rose, gave a comfortable shake, and, calmly regarding the excited
crowd seemed to say--"A hit! a decided hit! for the stupidest of animals has bamboozled a dozen
men. Now, then! what are you stopping the way for?" The pathetic mule was, perhaps, the most
interesting of all; for, though he always seemed to be the smallest, thinnest, weakest of the
six, the postillion, with big boots, long-tailed coat, and heavy whip, was sure to bestride
this one, who struggled feebly along, head down, coat muddy and rough, eye spiritless and sad,
his very tail a mortified stump, and the whole beast a picture of meek misery, fit to touch
a heart of stone. The jovial mule was a roly poly, happy-go-lucky little piece of horse-flesh,
taking every thing easily, from cudgeling to caressing; strolling along with a roguish twinkle
of the eye, and, if the thing were possible, would have had his hands in his pockets, and whistled
as he went. If there ever chanced to be an apple core, a stray turnip, or wisp of hay, in the
gutter, this Mark Tapley was sure to find it, and none of his mates seemed to begrudge him
his bite. I suspected this fellow was the peacemaker, confidant, and friend of all the others,
for he had a sort of "Cheer-up,-old-boy,-I'll-pull-you-through" look, which was exceedingly
engaging.

Pigs also possessed attractions for me, never having had an opportunity of observing their
graces of mind and manner, till I came to Washington, whose porcine citizens appeared to enjoy
a larger liberty than many of its human ones. Stout, sedate-looking pigs, hurried by each morning
to their places of business, with a preoccupied air, and sonorous greeting to their friends.
Genteel pigs, with an extra curl to their tails, promenaded in pairs, lunching here and there,
like gentlemen of leisure. Rowdy pigs pushed the passers-by off the sidewalk; tipsy pigs hiccoughed
their version of "We won't go home till morning," from the gutter; and delicate young pigs
tripped daintily through the mud, as if they plumed themselves upon their ankles, and kept
themselves particularly neat in point of stockings. Maternal pigs, with their interesting families,
strolled by in the sun; and often the pink, baby-like squealers lay down for a nap, with a
trust in Providence worthy of human imitation.--Hospital Sketches.

SELECTIONS FROM TRANSCENDENTAL WILD OATS.

On the first day of June, 184-, a large wagon, drawn by a small horse, and containing a motley
load, went lumbering over certain New England hills, with the pleasing accompaniments of wind,
rain, and hail. A serene man with a serene child upon his knee was driving, or rather being
driven, for the small horse had it all his own way. A brown boy with a William Penn style of
countenance sat beside him, firmly embracing a bust of Socrates. Behind them was an energetic-looking
woman, with a benevolent brow, satirical mouth, and eyes brimful of hope and courage. A baby
reposed upon her lap, a mirror leaned against her knee, and a basket of provisions danced about
at her feet, as she struggled with a large, unruly umbrella. Two blue-eyed little girls, with
hands full of childish treasures, sat under one old shawl, chatting happily together.

In front of this lively party stalked a tall, sharp-featured man, in a long blue cloak; and
a fourth small girl trudged along beside him through the mud as if she rather enjoyed it.

The wind whistled over the bleak hills; the rain fell in a despondent drizzle, and twilight
began to fall. But the calm man gazed as tranquilly into the fog as if he beheld a radiant
bow of promise spanning the gray sky. The cheery woman tried to cover every one but herself
with the big umbrella. The brown boy pillowed his head on the bald pate of Socrates and slumbered
peacefully. The little girls sang lullabies to their dolls in soft, maternal murmers. The sharp-nosed
pedestrian marched steadily on, with the blue cloak streaming out behind him like a banner;
and the lively infant splashed through the puddles with a duck-like satisfaction pleasant to
behold.

Thus these modern pilgrims journeyed hopefully out of the old world, to found a new one in
the wilderness.

The editors of "The Transcendental Tripod" had received from Messrs. Lion & Lamb (two of the
aforesaid pilgrims) a communication from which the following statement is an extract:

"We have made arrangements with the proprietor of an estate of about a hundred acres which
liberates this tract from human ownership. Here we shall prosecute our effort to initiate a
Family in harmony with the primitive instincts of man.

"Ordinary secular farming is not our object. Fruit, grain, pulse, herbs, flax, and other vegetable
products, receiving assiduous attention, will afford ample manual occupation, and chaste supplies
for the bodily needs. It is intended to adorn the pastures with orchards, and to supersede
the labor of cattle by the spade and the pruning-knife.

"Consecrated to human freedom, the land awaits the sober culture of devoted men. Beginning
with small pecuniary means, this enterprise must be rooted on a reliance on the succors of
an over-bounteous Providence, whose vital affinities being secured by this union with uncorrupted
field and unwordly persons, the cares and injuries of a life of gain are avoided.

"The inner nature of each member of the Family is at no time neglected. Our plan contemplates
all such disciplines, cultures, and habits as evidently conduce to the purifying of the inmates.

"Pledged to the spirit alone, the founders anticipate no hasty or numerous addition to their
numbers. The kingdom of peace is entered only through the gates of self-denial; and felicity
is the test and the reward of loyalty to the unswerving law of Love."

This prospective Eden at present consisted of an old red farm-house, a dilapidated barn, many
acres of meadow-land, and a grove. Ten ancient apple-trees were all the "chaste supply" which
the place offered as yet; but, in the firm belief that plenteous orchards were soon to be evoked
from their inner consciousness, these sanguine founders had christened their domain Fruitlands.

Here Timon Lion intended to found a colony of Latter Day Saints, who, under his patriarchal
sway, should regenerate the world and glorify his name for ever. Here Abel Lamb, with the devoutest
faith in the high ideal which was to him a living truth, desired to plant a Paradise, where
Beauty, Virtue, Justice, and Love might live happily together, without the possibility of a
serpent entering in. And here his wife, unconverted but faithful to the end, hoped, after many
wanderings over the face of the earth, to find rest for herself and a home for her children.

"There is our new abode," anounced the enthusiast, smiling with the satisfaction quite undamped
by the drops dripping from his hat-brim, as they turned at length into a cart-path that wound
along a steep hillside into a barren-looking valley.

"A little difficult of access," observed his practical wife, as she endeavored to keep her
various household gods from going overboard with every lurch of the laden ark.

"Like all good things. But those who earnestly desire and patiently seek will soon find us,"
placidly responded the philosopher from the mud, through which he was now endeavoring to pilot
the much-enduring horse.

"Truth lies at the bottom of a well, Sister Hope," said Brother Timon, pausing to detach his
small comrade from a gate, whereon she was perched for a clearer gaze into futurity.

"That's the reason we so seldom get at it, I suppose," replied Mrs. Hope, making a vain clutch
at the mirror, which a sudden jolt sent flying out of her hands.

"We want no false reflections here," said Timon, with a grim smile, as he crunched the fragments
under foot in his onward march.

Sister Hope held her peace, and looked wistfully through the mist at her promised home. The
old red house with a hospitable glimmer at its windows cheered her eyes; and, considering the
weather, was a fitter refuge than the sylvan bowers some of the more ardent souls might have
preferred.

The new-comers were welcomed by one of the elect precious,--a regenerate farmer, whose idea
of reform consisted chiefly in wearing white cotton raiment and shoes of untanned leather.
This costume, with a snowy beard, gave him a venerable, and at the same time a somewhat bridal
appearance.

The goods and chattels of the Society not having arrived, the weary family reposed before the
fire on blocks of wood, while Brother Moses White regaled them with roasted potatoes, brown
bread and water, in two plates, a tin pan, and one mug; his table service being limited. But,
having cast the forms and vanities of a depraved world behind them, the elders welcomed hardship
with the enthusiasm of new pioneers, and the children heartily enjoyed this foretaste of what
they believed was to be a sort of perpetual picnic.

During the progress of this frugal meal, two more brothers appeared. One a dark, melancholy
man, clad in homespun, whose peculiar mission was to turn his name hind part before and use
as few words as possible. The other was a bland, bearded Englishman, who expected to be saved
by eating uncooked food and going without clothes. He had not yet adopted the primitive costume,
however; but contented himself with meditatively chewing dry beans out of a basket.

"Every meal should be a sacrament, and the vessels used should be beautiful and symbolical,"
observed Brother Lamb, mildly, righting the tin pan slipping about on his knees. "I priced
a silver service when in town, but it was too costly; so I got some graceful cups and vases
of Britannia ware."

"Hardest things in the world to keep bright. Will whiting be allowed in the community?" inquired
Sister Hope, with a housewife's interest in labor-saving institutions.

"Such trivial questions will be discussed at a more fitting time," answered Brother Timon,
sharply, as he burnt his fingers with a very hot potato. "Neither sugar, molasses, milk, butter,
cheese, nor flesh are to be used among us, for nothing is to be admitted which has caused wrong
or death to man or beast."

"Our garments are to be linen till we learn to raise our own cotton or some substitute for
woollen fabrics," added Brother Abel, blissfully basking in an imaginary future as warm and
brilliant as the generous fire before him.

"Haou abaout shoes?" asked Brother Moses, surveying his own with interest.

"We must yield that point till we can manufacture an innocent substitute for leather. Bark,
wood, or some durable fabric will be invented in time. Meanwhile, those who desire to carry
out our idea to the fullest extent can go barefooted," said Lion, who liked extreme measures.

"I never will, nor let my girls," murmured rebellious Sister Hope, under her breath.

"Haou do you cattle'ate to treat the ten-acre lot? Ef things ain't 'tended to right smart,
we sha'n't hev no crops," observed the practical patriarch in cotton.

"We shall spade it," replied Abel, in such perfect good faith that Moses said no more, though
he indulged in a shake of the head as he glanced at hands that held nothing heavier than a
pen for years. He was a paternal old soul and regarded the younger men as promising boys on
a new sort of lark.

"What shall we do for lamps, if we cannot use any animal substance? I do hope light of some
sort is to be thrown upon the enterprise," said Mrs. Lamb, with anxiety, for in those days
kerosene and camphene were not, and gas was unknown in the wilderness.

"We shall go without till we have discovered some vegetable oil or wax to serve us," replied
Brother Timon, in a decided tone, which caused Sister Hope to resolve that her private lamp
should be always trimmed, if not burning.

"Each member is to perform the work for which experience, strength, and taste best fit him,"
continued Dictator Lion. "Thus drudgery and disorder will be avoided and harmony prevail. We
shall rise at dawn, begin the day by bathing, followed by music, and then a chaste repast of
fruit and bread. Each one finds congenial occupation till the meridian meal; when some deep-searching
conversation gives rest to the body, and development to the mind. Healthful labor again engages
us till the last meal, when we assemble in social communion, prolonged till sunset, when we
retire to sweet repose, ready for the next day's activity."

"What part of the work do you incline to yourself?" asked Sister Hope, with a humorous glimmer
in her keen eyes.

"I shall wait till it is made clear to me. Being in preference to doing is the great aim, and
this comes to us rather by a resigned willingness than a wilful activity, which is a check
to all divine growth," responded Brother Timon.

"I thought so," and Mrs. Lamb sighed audibly, for during the year he had spent in her family,
Brother Timon had so faithfully carried out his idea of "being, not doing," that she had found
his "divine growth" both an expensive and unsatisfactory process.

Here her husband struck into the conversation, his face shining with the light and joy of the
splendid dreams and high ideals hovering before him.

"In these steps of reform, we do not rely so much on scientific reasoning or physiological
skill as on the spirit's dictates. The greater part of man's duty consists in leaving alone
much that he now does. Shall I stimulate with tea, coffee, or wine? No. Shall I consume flesh?
Not if I value health. Shall I subjugate cattle? Shall I claim property in any created thing?
Shall I trade? Shall I adopt a form of religion? Shall I interest myself in politics? To how
many of these questions--could we ask them deeply enough and could they be heard as having
relation to our eternal welfare--would the response be 'Abstain'?"

A mild snore seemed to echo the last word of Abel's rhapsody, for Brother Moses had succumbed
to mundane slumber, and sat nodding like a massive ghost. Forest Absalom, the silent man, and
John Pease, the English member, now departed to the barn; and Mrs. Lamb led her flock to a
temporary fold, leaving the founders of the "Consociate Family" to build castles in the air
till the fire went out and the symposium ended in smoke.

The furniture arrived next day, and was soon bestowed; for the principal property of the community
consisted in books. To this rare library was devoted the best room in the house, and the few
busts and pictures that still survived many flittings were added to beautify the sanctuary,
for here the family was to meet for amusement, instruction, and worship.

Any housewife can imagine the emotions of Sister Hope, when she took possession of a large,
dilapidated kitchen, containing an old stove and the peculiar stores out of which food was
to be evolved for her little family of eleven. Cakes of maple sugar, dried peas and beans,
barley and hominy, meal of all sorts, potatoes, and dried fruit. No milk, butter, cheese, tea,
or meat appeared. Even salt was considered a useless luxury, and spice entirely forbidden by
these lovers of Spartan simplicity. A ten years' experience of vegetarian vagaries had been
good training for this new freak, and her sense of the ludicrous supported her through many
trying scenes.

Unleavened bread, porridge, and water for breakfast; bread, vegetables, and water for dinner;
bread, fruit, and water for supper was the bill of fare ordained by the elders. No teapot profaned
that sacred stove, no gory steak cried aloud for vengeance from her chaste gridiron and only
a brave woman's taste, time, and temper were sacrificed on that domestic altar.

The vexed question of light was settled by buying a quantity of bayberry wax for candles; and,
on discovering that no one knew how to make them, pine-knots were introduced, to be used when
absolutely necessary. Being summer, the evenings were not long, and the weary fraternity found
it no great hardship to retire with the birds. The inner light was sufficient for most of them.
But Mrs. Lamb rebelled. Evening was the only time she had to herself, and while the tired feet
rested the skilful hands mended torn frocks and little stockings, or anxious heart forgot its
burden in a book.

So "mother's lamp" burned steadily, while the philosophers built a new heaven and earth by
moonlight; and through all the metaphysical mists and philanthropic pyrotechnics of that period
Sister Hope played her own little game of "throwing light," and none but the moths were the
worse for it.

Such farming probably was never seen before since Adam delved. The band of brothers began by
spading garden and field; but a few days of it lessened their ardor amazingly. Blistered hands
and aching backs suggested the expediency of permitting the use of cattle till the workers
were better fitted for noble toil by a summer of the new life.

Brother Moses brought a yoke of oxen from his farm,--at least, the philosophers thought so
till it was discovered that one of the animals was a cow; and Moses confessed that he "must
be let down easy, for he couldn't live on garden sarse entirely."

Great was Dictator Lion's indignation at this lapse from virtue. But time pressed, the work
must be done; so the meek cow was permitted to wear the yoke, and the recreant brother continued
to enjoy forbidden draughts in the barn, which dark proceeding caused the children to regard
him as one set apart for destruction.

The sowing was equally peculiar, for, owing to some mistake, the three brethren who devoted
themselves to this graceful task, found when about half through the job that each had been
sowing a different sort of grain in the same field; a mistake which caused much perplexity,
as it could not be remedied; but, after a long consultation and a good deal of laughter, it
was decided to say nothing and see what would come of it.

The garden was planted with a generous supply of useful roots and herbs; but, as manure was
not allowed to profane the virgin soil, few of these vegetable treasures ever came up. Purslane
reigned supreme, and the disappointed planters ate it philosophically, deciding that Nature
knew what was best for them, and would generously supply their needs, if they could only learn
to digest her "sallets" and wild roots.

The orchard was laid out, a little grafting done, new trees and vines set, regardless of the
unfit season and entire ignorance of the husbandmen, who honestly believed that in the autumn
they would reap a bounteous harvest.

Slowly things got into order, and rapidly rumors of the new experiment went abroad, causing
many strange spirits to flock thither, for in those days communities were the fashion and transcendentalism
raged wildly. Some came to look on and laugh, some to be supported in poetic idleness, a few
to believe sincerely and work heartily. Each member was allowed to mount his favorite hobby,
and ride it to his heart's content. Very queer were some of the riders, and very rampant some
of the hobbies.

One youth, believing that language was of little consequence if the spirit was only right,
startled new-comers by blandly greeting them with "good-morning, damn you," and other remarks
of an equally mixed order. A second irrepressible being held that all the emotions of the soul
should be freely expressed, and illustrated his theory by antics that would have sent him to
a lunatic asylum, if, as an unregenerate wag said, he had not already been in one. When his
spirit soared, he climbed trees and shouted; when doubt assailed him, he lay upon the floor
and groaned lamentably. At joyful periods, he raced, leaped, and sang; when sad, he wept aloud;
and when a great thought burst upon him in the watches of the night, he crowed like a jocund
cockerel, to the great delight of the children and the great annoyance of the elders. One musical
brother fiddled whenever so moved, sang sentimentally to the four little girls, and put a music-box
on the wall when he hoed corn.

Brother Pease ground away at his uncooked food, or browsed over the farm on sorrel, mint, green
fruit, and new vegetables. Occasionally he took his walks abroad, airily attired in an unbleached
cotton poncho, which was the nearest approach to the primeval costume he was allowed to indulge
in. At midsummer he retired to the wilderness, to try his plan where the woodchucks were without
prejudices and huckleberry-bushes were hospitably full. A sunstroke unfortunately spoilt his
plan, and he returned to semi-civilization a sadder and wiser man.

Forest Absalom preserved his Pythagorean silence, cultivated his fine dark locks, and worked
like a beaver, setting an excellent example of brotherly love, justice, and fidelity by his
upright life. He it was who helped overworked Sister Hope with her heavy washes, kneaded the
endless succession of batches of bread, watched over the children, and did the many tasks left
undone by the brethren, who were so busy discussing and defining great duties that they forgot
to perform the small ones.

Moses White placidly plodded about, "chorin' raound," as he called it, looking like an old-time
patriarch, with his silver hair and flowing beard, and saving the community from many a mishap
by his thrift and Yankee shrewdness.

Brother Lion domineered over the whole concern; for, having put the most money into the speculation,
he was resolved to make it pay,--as if any thing founded on an ideal basis could be expected
to do so by any but enthusiasts.

Abel Lamb simply revelled in the Newness, firmly believing that his dream was to be beautifully
realized and in time not only little Fruitlands, but the whole earth, be turned into a Happy
Valley. He worked with every muscle of his body, for he was in deadly earnest. He taught with
his whole head and heart; planned and sacrificed, preached and prophesied, with a soul full
of the purest aspirations, most unselfish purposes, and desires for a life devoted to God and
man, too high and tender to bear the rough usage of this world.

It was a little remarkable that only one woman ever joined this community. Mrs. Lamb merely
followed wheresoever her husband led,--"as ballast for his balloon," as she said, in her bright
way.

Miss Jane Gage was a stout lady of mature years, sentimental, amiable, and lazy. She wrote
verses copiously, and had vague yearnings and graspings after the unknown, which led her to
believe herself fitted for a higher sphere than any she had yet adorned.

Having been a teacher, she was set to instructing the children in the common branches. Each
adult member took a turn at the infants; and, as each taught in his own way, the result was
a chronic state of chaos in the minds of these much-afflicted innocents.

Sleep, food, and poetic musings were the desires of dear Jane's life, and she shirked all duties
as clogs upon her spirit's wings. Any thought of lending a hand with the domestic drudgery
never occurred to her; and when to the question, "Are there any beasts of burden on the place?"
Mrs. Lamb answered, with a face that told its own tale, "Only one woman!" the buxom Jane took
no shame to herself, but laughed at the joke, and let the stout-hearted sister tug on alone.

Unfortunately, the poor lady hankered after the flesh-pots, and endeavored to stay herself
with private sips of milk, crackers, and cheese, and on one dire occasion she partook of fish
at a neighbor's table.

One of the children reported this sad lapse from virtue, and poor Jane was publicly reprimanded
by Timon.

"I only took a little bit of the tail," sobbed the penitent poetess.

"Yes, but the whole fish had to be tortured and slain that you might tempt your carnal appetite
with that one taste of the tail. Know ye not, consumers of flesh meat, that ye are nourishing
the wolf and tiger in your bosoms?"

At this awful question and the peal of laughter which arose from some of the younger brethren,
tickled by the ludicrous contrast between the stout sinner, the stern judge, and the naughty
satisfaction of the young detective, poor Jane fled from the room to pack her trunk, and return
to a world where fishes' tails were not forbidden fruit.

Transcendental wild oats were sown broadcast that year, and the fame thereof has not yet ceased
in the land; for, futile as this crop seemed to outsiders, it bore an invisible harvest, worth
much to those who planted in earnest. As none of the members of this particular community have
ever recounted their experiences before, a few of them may not be amiss, since the interest
in these attempts has never died out and Fruitlands was the most ideal of all these castles
in Spain.--Silver Pitchers, and Other Stories.

WILLIAM WIRT HOWE.

(BORN, 1833.)

       *       *       *       *       *

CONVERSATIONAL DEPRAVITY

To the Chief-Justice of Glenwood,

SUBLIME SIR: ... What can be more destructive of the higher forms of conversation than a pun?
What right has any one to explode a petard in the midst of sweet sociality, and blow every
thing like sequence and sentiment sky-high? And therefore, since you, as translator of the
Pasha's Letters, have taken pains to publish his observations on many social subjects, I think
it eminently proper that you should ventilate the ideas of his friend Tompkins upon a not less
important theme.

Happily, I have been saved the trouble of original composition, by a discovery made by my landlady
while I was boarding a year ago on St. John's Park. Mr. Green, our attic boarder, went off
suddenly one day to see a friend in the country, as he said. Of course our landlady searched
his room, with a view of reading his letters; and in a brown hair-trunk, with a boot-jack,
a razor-strop, a box of Seidlitz powders, and an odd volume of Young's Night Thoughts, she
found the following manuscript. The females of the house were satisfied with reading such letters
as were left by Mr. Green in his apartment, and so this paper was handed over to me. I may
say that it was marked with pencil, "Declined with Thanks."

"THE PUN FIEND.

"BY C. GREEN.

"I used to be corpulent, rosy-cheeked, and cheerful. I am gaunt, pale, and morose now. I used
to sleep sweetly; but now I toss about upon my bed, terrified by hideous visions, and feelings
as of a clammy hand or wet cloth laid on my face. I was wont to walk about our streets after
business hours, and on Sundays, with a genuine smile of enjoyment lighting up my face; but
now I hurry along with my eyes cast down, and I seek by-ways and dark lanes for my rambles.
My friends think I am in love; persons who know me but slightly, suppose me a victim to remorse--imagine
that I wear a hair shirt, and macerate my flesh. They are all wrong. An old bachelor like myself
has long ago buried the light of love in a tomb, and set a seal upon the great stone at the
door; and as for remorse, I owe no tailor any thing, and do not at present blame myself for
any great fault, except having once subscribed for six months to the New York Morning Cretan.
Nevertheless, my face grows haggard, my step weary, and even our Thursday's beef à la mode
fails to tempt my enfeebled appetite.

"I am haunted, haunted by a foul fiend. He meets me at six, P.M., in our festive dining-room,
and the fork or spoon drops from my nerveless grasp. He follows me up to the parlor, where
I sometimes talk of an evening to Miss Pipkin (Miss P. is our fourth story, front), and I become
silent in his presence, and Pipkin votes me a bore. He sits by my side when I am playing at
whist, and I trump my partner's trick, and the dear old game becomes disgusting. He even dared
once to follow me into church, but I cried 'Avaunt!' in a tone so peremptory, that he fled
for a moment. He joined me, however, as soon as service was over, and walked from Tenth Street
to Madison Square, with his grizzly arm thurst through mine, and his diabolical jeers drumming
on my tympana. In dreams he perches on my breast, and clutches me by the throat.

"Like the arch fiend, he assumes many shapes. He is now a tall man, and again a short man;
sometimes young and audacious, sometimes old and leering. He only once took a feminine guise:
that blessed form was irksome to him. He prefers the freedom of masculinity and ineffables.
He was once a bookkeeper like myself; then a young attorney; then a medical student; then a
bald-headed old gentleman, who seemed to blow a flageolet for a living; and lately, he has
taken the shape of a well-to-do President of 'The Arkansas and Arizona Sky Rocket Transportation
Company,' but through all these shifting shapes, I recognize him and shudder.

"He is known as the Funny Fellow.

"Very glorious are wit and humor. I have heard many eminent lecturers discourse on the distinctions,
definitions, and value of these airy good gifts. I remember being especially edified by the
skill with which Spout, the eloquent, dissected the philosophy of mirth in the same style and
with the same effect that the boy in the story dissected his grandmamma's bellows to see how
the wind was raised. I agree with Spout that wit and humor are glorious; that satire, pricking
the balloons of conceit, vain glory, and hypocrisy, is invaluable; that a good laugh can come
only from a warm heart; that the man in motley is often wiser than the judge in ermine or the
priest in lawn. These qualities are goodly in literature. We all love the kindly humorist from
Chaucer to Holmes, inclusive. How genial and gentle they are, as they sit with us around the
fireside, chucking us under the chins, and slyly poking us in the ribs; and in the field how
nobly they have charged upon humbugs and shams. They have been true knights, chivalrous, kind-hearted,
brave, religious; their spears are slender, perhaps, yet sharp and elastic as the blades of
Toledo; and as they have galloped up and down in the lists, gaily caparisoned and cheery, it
has done our hearts good to see how they have hurled into the dust the pompous, sleepy champions
of error and hypocrisy.

"So too, consider how pleasant a thing is mirth on the stage. Who does not thank William the
Great for Falstaff, and Hackett for his personation of the fat knight? Who does not chuckle
over the humors of Autolycus, rogue and peddler? Who has not felt his eye glisten, as his lips
smiled, when Jesse Rural has spoken, and who will not say to Ollapod, 'Thank you, good sir,
I owe you one'?

"Ah me! how I used to read those jolly unctuous authors when I was young, in the old 'sitting-room'
at home! The great fire-place glows before me now; its light dances on the wall; my mother's
hand is on my head; my sister's eyes are beaming on her lover over in the darker corner; there
is a murmur of pleasant voices; there are quiet mirth and deep joy. I lose myself in revery
when I think of these pleasures, and almost forget the Funny Fellow.

"He is pestiferous. If I were in the habit of profanity, I would let loose upon him an octagonal
oath. If I were a man of muscle, it would be pleasant to get his head in chancery, and bruise
it. It would be a relief to serve him with subpoenas, or present him long bills and demand
immediate payment. Was my name providentially ordered to be Green, that he might pass verbal
contumely upon it? Does he suppose that a man can live thirty-five years in this state of probation,
without becoming slightly calloused to a pun on his own name? Yet he continues to pun on mine
as if the process were highly amusing. Then again he interrupts any little attempts at pleasing
conversation with his infernal absurdities. I was speaking one day at the dinner-table of a
well-known orator who had been entertaining the town, and I flatter myself that my remarks
were critically just as well as deeply interesting. The wretched being interposed--

"'Mr. Green, when you say there was too much American Eagle in the speaker's discourse, do
you mean that it was a talon-ted production, and to what claws of the speech do you especially
refer?'

"Miss Pipkin, who had been deeply intent on my observations, commenced to titter; what could
I do but hang my head and swallow the rest of the meal in silence? If I had been possessed
of a quick tongue, I would have lashed him with sarcasms, and Pipkin would have rejoiced with
me in his groans. But no--I am slow of speech--and so I was bound to submit. After that he
was more tyrannical than ever. He would come stealthily into my room and garotte me in a conversational
way. He would seem to take me by the throat, saying, 'why don't you laugh--why don't you burst
with merriment?' and then I would force a dismal grin, just to get rid of him.

"I said to myself, I will leave this selfish Sahara called the city and county of New York
I will leave its dust, dirt, carts, confusion, bulls, bears, Peter Funks, Jeremy Diddlers,
and, best of all, the Funny Fellow. I will take board in some rural, as well as accessible
place; the mosquitoes and ague of Flushing shall refresh my frame; the cottages of Astoria,
with their pleasant view of the Penitentiary, shall revive my wounded spirit; I will exile
myself from my native land to the shores of Jersey; I will sit beneath the shadow of the Quarantine
on Staten Island. No--I won't--I will go to Yonkers--Yonkers that looks as though it had been
built on a gentle slope, and then had suffered a violent attack of earthquake; daily boats
shall convey me from my ledger to my bed and board, at convenient hours, so that while I post
books in New York by day, I may revel in breezes, moonbeams, sweet milk, and gentle influences,
by night. There, said I, in a burst of excusable enthusiasm, I will recline beneath wide-spreading
beeches, and pipe upon an oaten reed. There will I listen to the soft bleating of lambs, and
scent the fresh breath of cows; Nature shall touch and thrill me with her gentle hand; I will
see the dear flowers turn their faces up to receive the kiss of the rising sun, or the benediction
of the summer shower. There, too, I will meet the members of the mystic P.B., so that I shall
talk of books other than day-books and blotters: we will discourse reverently of authors and
their creations. I will not meet the Funny Fellow, for such a wretch can be produced only in
the corrupt social hot-bed of Gotham.

"So to Yonkers I went. I chose a room looking out upon the Hudson and the noble Palisades.
I took with me a flute, a copy of the Bucolics of Virgil, and numerous linen garments. A great
calm came over me. I was no longer haunted, goaded, oppressed. With peace nestling in my bosom,
I went down to my first supper in the new boarding-house. A goodly meal smoked on the table,
and the savor of baked shad, sweetest of smells, went up. While I sat choking myself with the
bones of this delicious fish, I heard a voice on the opposite side of the table that sent the
blood to my heart. If I had been feminine, there would have been a scene.

"He was there: his eyes gloated over the board, a malicious quirk sat astride his fat lips.
The Funny Fellow spoke to Miss Grasscloth:

"'Why are the fishermen who catch these shad like wigmakers?'

"'I don't know,'

"'Because they make their living from bare poles.'

"I ate no more supper. A nausea supervened. I left the table, rushed into the cool evening
air, and let the fresh breeze visit my faded cheek. I strolled up the main street of Yonkers,
and as I crushed my toes against the stones which then adorned that highway, I resolved to
call on my sweet friend Julia ----. Her gentle smile, said I, will console me. She is not a
Funny Fellow. We will talk together calmly, earnestly, in the moonlight, close by the great
river. I will sit as near to her as her fashionable garments will permit, and forget my foe.

"We walked together--Julia and I. We talked of things good and true. We spoke of the beauty
of the nocturnal scene. Alas! a fearful, a demoniac change came over the girl's face. She said:

"'Yes, my friend, we ought to enjoy this scene--for we are fine-night beings.'

"I bid a hasty farewell to the large eyes and gentle smile. She was not much offended at my
abrupt and angry departure, for my salary is small, my hair is turning grey, and I do not dance.
But I was not entirely discouraged. I resolved to give Yonkers a fair trial, and a true verdict
to render according to the evidence. So I frequented the tea-parties and sociables so common
in that wretched town, and strove to shake off the melancholy that clung to me like the Old
Man of the Sea. To my horror, the Funny Fellow became multiplied like the reflections in a
shivered mirror. Men and women, and even young innocent children, became Funny, and danced
about me in a horrible maze, and squeaked and gibbered, and tossed their jokes in my face.
In one week I made five mortal enemies by refusing to smile when their tormenting squibs were
exploded in my eyes. I felt like a rustic pony, who comes in his simple way into town on the
Fourth of July, and has Chinese crackers and fiery serpents cast under his heels. One evening,
in particular, they asked me to play the game of Comparisons (a proverbially odious game, that
could exist only in an effete and degenerate civilization), in which the entire company tried
to see how Funny they could be; and because I made stupid answers, I was laughed at by the
young ladies.

"I became disgusted with Yonkers, and returned to my intramural boarding-house in St. John's
Park. The sidewalk near the house was in a dilapidated state, through the carelessness of the
contractor, who had stipulated to pave it properly, but had not paved it at all, except with
good intentions. And therefore, as I came along, I first besmeared my boots with muck then
tripped my toes against a pile of brick: and finally fell headlong into the gutter. As I rose
up and denounced, in somewhat loud language, the idleness and inefficiency of the contractor
who had the work in charge, the Funny Fellow stood before me, his eyes glaring with triumph.
He spoke in reply to my denunciations:

"' My dear Green, do not call the contractor lazy and inefficient. I am sure that his is an
energy that never FLAGS!'

"I rushed to the room where I am now sealed. There is but one hope left me.

"In the Territory of Nebraska, far to the west thereof, lies a tract of land which the early
French trappers, with shrewd fitness called the' Mauvaises Terres.' It is a region of rocks,
petrifactions, and other pre-Adamite peculiarities. In a paper written by Dr. Leid of Philadelphia,
and published by the Smithsonian Institute, we are assured that there once lived in these bad
lands, turtles six feet square, and alligators, compared with which the present squatter sovereigns
of the territory are lovely and refined. The fossil remains of these ancient inhabitants still
encumber the earth of that region, and make it unpleasant to view with an agricultural eye;
but here and there the general desolation is relieved by a fertile valley, with a running brook
and green slopes. White men, whisky, and Funny Fellows have not yet penetrated there. I will
go to this sanctuary. A snug cabin will contain my necessary household--to wit--twelve shirts
and a Bible. I will plant my corn, and tobacco, and vines on the fertile slope that looks to
the south; my cattle and sheep shall browse the rest of the valley, while a few agile goats
shall stand in picturesque positions upon the rocky monsters described by Dr. Leidy. My guests
shall be the brave and wise red men who never try to make bad jokes. I do not think they ever
try to be Funny; but to make assurance doubly sure, I shall not learn their language, so that
any melancholy attempts they may possibly make, will fall upon unappreciative ears. By day
I will cultivate my crops and tend my flocks and herds; and in the long evenings smoke the
calumet with the worthy aborigines. If I should find there some dusky maiden, like Palmer's
Indian girl, who has no idea of puns, polkas, crinoline, or eligible matches, I will woo her
in savage hyperbole, and she shall light my pipe with her slender fingers, and beat for me
the tom-tom when I am sad. I will live in a calm and conscientious way; the Funny Fellow shall
become like the dim recollection of some horrible dream, and"--

Mr. Green seems not to have finished his interesting reflections, and I shall not attempt to
complete them. As well might I try to finish the Cathedral at Cologne. But I heartily sympathize
with the feelings he has expressed, and trust that his new home in the West will never be invaded
by conversational garroters.

Sincerely your friend,

TOMPKINS.

--The Pasha Papers.

CHARLES FARRAR BROWNE. This made the Warder stammer and turn red. Respectably, etc.,

ARTEMUS WARD.

--Punch,1866.

FROM THE "LECTURE."

FRANK R. STOCKTON.

(BORN, 1834.)

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR TAVERN. "I heerd of him this spring. He's got a sheep-farm on the other side o' the mountain,
and he's a livin' there. It's for sale an' to rent, both, ef enybody wants it.

We looked at each other. We agreed. Here was a chance for a rare good time.

A PIECE OF RED CALICO.

Mr. Editor:--If the following true experience shall prove of any advantage to any of your readers,
I shall be glad. He looked at it on both sides. Then he said:

"We haven't any of this."

"That gentleman said you had," said I.

"We had it, but we're out of it now.

"I wish from my heart you had," said I.

ANDREW SCOGGIN.

--The Lady or the Tiger, and other stories.

HARRIET PRESCOTT SPOFFORD.

(BORN, 1835.)

       *       *       *       *       *

AUNT PEN'S FUNERAL.

Poor Aunt Pen! I am sorry to say it, but for a person alive and well--tolerably well and very
much alive, that is--she did use to make the greatest business of dying! Alive! why, when she
was stretched out on the sofa, after an agony of asthma, or indigestion, or whatever, and had
called us all about her with faltering and tears, and was apparently at her last gasp, she
would suddenly rise, like her own ghost, at the sound of a second ringing of the door-bell,
which our little renegade Israel had failed to answer, and declare if she could only once lay
hands on Israel she would box his ears till they heard!

For the door-bell was, perhaps, among many, one of Aunt Pen's weakest points. She knew everybody
in town, as you might say. She was exceedingly entertaining to everybody outside the family.
She was a great favorite with everybody. Countless gossips came to see her, tinkling at the
door-bell, and hated individually by Israel, brought her all the news, heard all the previous
ones had brought, admired her, praised her, pitied her, listened to her, and went away leaving
her in such satisfied mood that she did not die any more that day. And as they went away they
always paused at the door to say to some one of us what a cheerful invalid Aunt Pen had made
herself, and what a nest of sunbeams her room always was, and what a lesson her patience and
endurance ought to be. But, oh dear me, how very little they knew about it all!

We all lived together, as it happened; for when we children were left alone with but a small
income, Aunt Pen--who was also alone, and only five years my senior--wrote word that we might
as well come to her house in the city, for it wouldn't make expenses more, and might make them
less if we divided them; and then, too, she said she would always be sure of one out of three
bright and reasonable nurses. Poor Aunt Pen! perhaps she didn't find us either so bright or
so reasonable as she had expected; for we used to think that in her less degree she went on
the same principle with the crazy man who declared all the rest of the world except himself insane.

In honest truth, as doctor after doctor was turned away by the impatient and distempered woman
up-stairs, each one took occasion to say to us down-stairs that our aunt's illness was of that
nature that all the physic it required was to have her fancies humored, and that we never need
give ourselves any uneasiness, for she would doubtless live to a good old age, unless some
acute disease should intervene, as there was nothing at all the matter with her except a slight
nervous sensitiveness, that never destroyed anybody. I suppose we were a set of young heathen,
for really there were times, if you will believe it, when that was not the most reassuring
statement in the world.

However. Sometimes Aunt Pen found a doctor, or a medicine, or a course of diet, or something,
that gave her great sensations of relief, and then she would come down, and go about the house,
and praise our administration, and say every thing went twice as far as it used to go before
we came, and tell us delightful stories, of our mother's housewifely skill, and be quite herself
again; and she would make the table ring with laughing, and give charming little tea-parties;
and then we all did wish that Aunt Pen would live forever--and be down-stairs. But probably
the next day, after one of the tea-parties, oysters, or claret punch, or hot cakes, or all
together, had wrought their diablerie, and the doctor was sent for, and the warming-pan was
brought out, and there was another six weeks' siege, in which, obeyed by every one, and physicked
by herself, and sympathized with to her heart's content by callers, and shut up in a hot room
with the windows full of flowering plants, and somebody reading endless novels to her with
the lights burning all night long--if she wasn't ill she had every inducement to be, and nothing
but an indomitable constitution hindered it. It was perfectly idle for us to tell her she was
hurting herself; it only made her very indignant with us, and more determined than ever to
persist in doing so.

Of course, then, the longer Aunt Pen staid in her own room the worse she really did get, and
her nerves, with confinement and worry and relaxation, would by-and-by be in a condition for
any sort of an outburst if we attempted the least reasoning with her. She would become, for
one thing, as sleepless as an owl; then she was thoroughly sure she was going to be insane,
and down would go the hydrate of chloral till the doctor forbade it on pain of death. After
the chloral, too, such horrid eyes as she had! the eyes, you know, that chloral always leaves--inflamed,
purple, swollen, heavy, crying, and good for any thing but seeing. Immediately then Aunt Pen
went into a new tantrum; she was going to be stone-blind, and dependent on three heartless
hussies for all her mercies in this life; but no, thank goodness! she had friends that would
see she did not go absolutely to the wall, and would never suffer her to be imposed on by a
parcel of girls who didn't care whether she lived or died--who perhaps would rather she did
die--who stood open-handed for her bequests; she would leave her money to the almshouse, and
if we wanted it we could go and get it there! And after that, to be sure, Aunt Pen would have
a fit of remorse for her words, and confess her sin chokingly, and have us all come separately
and forgive her, and would say she was the wretchedest woman on the face of the earth, that
she should live undesired until her friends were all tired, and then die unlamented; and would
burst into tears and cry herself into a tearing headache, and have ice on her head and a blister
on the back of her neck, and be quite confident that now she was really going off with congestion
of the brain.

After that, for a day or two, she would be in a heavenly frame of mind with the blister and
cabbage leaves and simple cerate, and a couple of mirrors by which to examine the rise and
fall of the blister; and, having had a hint of real illness, she would consent quite smilingly
to the act of convalescence, and a descent to the healthy region of the parlors once more.

But no sooner were we all gay and happy in the house again, running out as we pleased, beginning
to think of parties and drives and theatres and all enjoyment--and rather unobservant, as young
folks are apt to be unobservant of Aunt Pen's slight habitual pensiveness in the absence of
guests or excitement, and of her ways generally--than Aunt Pen would challenge some lobster-salad
to mortal combat, and, of course, come out floored by the colic. A little whiskey then; and
as a little gave so much ease, she would try a great deal. The result always was a precipitate
retreat up-stairs, a howling hysteric, bilious cramps, the doctor, a subcutaneous injection
of morphine in her arm; then chattering like a magpie, relapsed into awful silence, and, convinced
that the morphine had been carried straight to her heart, a composing of her hands and feet,
an injured dismissal of every soul from the room, with the assurance that we should find her
straight and stiff and stone-dead in the morning.

We never did. For, as we seldom had opportunity of an undisturbed night's rest, we usually
took her at her word if any access of ill temper, or despair, or drowsiness occasioned banishment
from the presence. Not that we had always been so calm about it; there was a time when we were
excited with every alarm, thrown into flurries and panics quite to Aunt Pen's mind, running
after the doctor at two o'clock of the morning, building a fire in the range ourselves at midnight
to make gruel for her, rubbing her till we rubbed the skin off our hands, combing her hair
till we went to sleep standing; but Aunt Pen had cried wolf so long, and the doctors had all
declared so stoutly that there was no wolf, that our once soft hearts had become quite hard
and concrete.

When at last Aunt Pen had had an alarm from nearly every illness for which the pharmacopoeia
prescribes, and she knew that neither we nor the doctors would listen to the probability of
their recurrence; she had an attack of "sinking." No, there was no particular disease, she
used to say, only sinking; she had been pulled down to an extent from which she had no strength
to recuperate; she was only sinking, a little weaker to-day than she was yesterday--only sinking.
But Aunt Pen ate a very good breakfast of broiled birds and toast and coffee; a very good lunch
of cold meats and dainties, and a great goblet of thick cream; a very good dinner of soup and
roast and vegetables and dessert, and perhaps a chicken bone at eleven o'clock in the evening.
And when the saucy little Israel, who carried up her tray, heard her say she was sinking, he
remarked that it was because of the load on her stomach.

One day, I remember, Aunt Pen was very much worse than usual. We were all in her room, a sunshiny
place which she had connected with the adjoining one by sliding-doors, so that it might be
big enough for us all to bring our work on occasion, and make it lively for her. She had on
a white-cashmere dressing-gown trimmed with swan's-down, and she lay among the luxurious cushions
of a blue lounge, with a paler blue blanket, which she had had one of us tricot for her, lying
over her feet, and altogether she looked very ideal and ethereal; for Aunt Pen always did have
such an eye to picturesque effect that I don't know how she could ever consent to the idea
of mouldering away into dust like common clay.

She had sent Maria down for Mel and me to come up-stairs with whatever occupied us, for she
was convinced that she was failing fast, and knew we should regret it if we did not have the
last of her. As we had received the same message nearly every other day during the last three
or four weeks, we did not feel extraordinarily alarmed, but composedly took our baskets and
scissors, and trudged along after Maria.

"I am sure I ought to be glad that I've succeeded in training my nieces into such industrious
habits," said Aunt Pen, after a little while, looking at Mel; "but I should think that when
a near relative approached the point of death, the fact might throw needle and thread into
the background for a time." Then she paused for Maria to fan a little more breath into her.
"It's different with Helen," soon she said; "the white silk shawl she is netting for me may
be needed at any moment to lay me out in."

"Dear me, Aunt Pen!" cried Mel; "what a picture you'd be, laid out in a white net shawl!" For
the doctor had told us to laugh at these whims all we might.

"Oh, you heartless girl!" said Aunt Pen. "To think of pictures at such a time!" And she closed
her eyes as if weary of the world.

"I never saw anybody who liked to revel in the ghastly the way you do, Aunt Pen."

"Mel!" said Aunt Pen, with quite a show of color in her cheek; "I shall send you down stairs."

"Do," said Mel; "where I can cut out my gown in peace."

"Cutting a gown at the bedside of the dying! Are you cold-blooded, or are you insensible?"

"Aunt Pen," said Mel, leaning on the point of her scissors, "you know very well that I have
to make my own dresses or go without them. And you have kept me running your idle errands,
up and down two flights of stairs, to the doctor's and the druggist's, and goodness knows where
and all, till I haven't a thread of any thing that is fit to be seen. You've been posturing
this grand finale of yours, too, all the last three weeks, and it's time you had it perfect
now; and you must let me alone till I get my gown done."

"It will do to wear at my funeral," said Aunt Pen bitterly, as she concluded.

"No, it won't," said Mel, doggedly; "it's red."

"Red!" cried Aunt Pen, suddenly opening her eyes, and half raising on one hand. "What in wonder
have you bought a red dress for? You are quite aware that I can't bear the least intimation
of the color. My nerves are in such a state that a shred of red makes me--"

"You won't see it, you know," said Mel in what did seem to me an unfeeling manner.

"No," said Aunt Pen. "Very true. I sha'n't see it. But what," added she presently snapping
open her eyes, "considered as a mere piece of economy, you bought a red dress for when you
are immediately going into black, passes common-sense to conjecture! You had better send it
down and have it dyed at once before you cut it, for the shrinkage will spoil it forever if
you don't."

"Much black I shall go into," said Mel.

Maria laughed. Aunt Pen cried.

"Aunt Pen," said the cruel Mel, "if you were going to die you wouldn't be crying. Dying people
have no tears to shed, the doctors say."

"Somebody ought to cry," said poor Aunt Pen, witheringly. "Don't talk to me about doctors,"
she continued, after a silence interrupted only by the snipping of the scissors. "They are
a set of quacks. They know nothing. I will have all the doctors in town at my funeral for pall-bearers.
It will be a satire too delicate for them to appreciate, though. Speaking of that occasion,
Helen," she went on, turning to me as a possible ally, "I have so many friends that I suppose
the house will be full."

"Wouldn't you enjoy it more from church, auntie?" said I.

"Oh, you hard and wicked girls!" she cried. "You're all alike. Listen to me! If you won't hear
my wishes, you must take my commands. Now, in the first place, I want the parlors to be overflowing
with flowers, literally lined with flowers. I don't care how much money it takes; there'll
be enough left for you--more than you deserve. And I want you to be very sure that I'm not
to be exposed unless I look exactly as I'd like to look. You're to put on my white silk that
I was to have been married in, and my veil, and the false orange blossoms. They're all in the
third drawer of the press, and the key's on my chatelaine. And if--if--well," said Aunt Pen,
more to herself than us, "if he comes, he'll understand. The Bride of Death."

After that she did not say any more for some minutes, and we were all silent and sorry, and
Mel was fidgeting in a riot of repentance; we had never, either of us, heard a word of any
romance of Aunt Pen's before. We began to imagine that there might be some excuse for the overthrow
of Aunt Pen's nervous system, some reality in the overthrow. "You will leave this ring on my
finger;" said she; by-and-by. "If Chauncey Read comes, and wants it, he will take it off. It
will fit his finger as well now, I suppose, as it did when he wore it before he gave it to
me." Then Aunt Pen bit her lip and shut her eyes, and seemed to be slipping off into a gentle
sleep.

"By-the-way!" said she, suddenly, sitting upright on the lounge, "I won't have the horses from
Brown's livery--

"The what, auntie?"

"The horses for the cortége. You know Brown puts that magnificent span of his in the hearse
on account of their handsome action. I'm sure Mrs. Gaylard would have been frightened to death
if she could only have seen the way they pranced at her funeral last fall. I was determined
then that they should never draw me;" and Aunt Pen shivered for herself beforehand. "And I
can't have them from Timlin's, for the same reason," said she. "All his animals are skittish;
and you remember when a pair of them took fright and dashed away from the procession and ran
straight to the river, and there'd have been four other funerals if the schooner at the wharf
hadn't stopped the runaways. And Timlins has a way, too, of letting white horses follow the
hearse with the first mourning-coach, and it's very bad luck, very--an ill omen; a prophecy
of Death and the Pale Horse again, you know. And I won't have them from Shust's, either," said
Aunt Pen, "for he is simply the greatest extortioner since old Isaac the Jew."

"Well, auntie," said Mel, forgetful of her late repentance, "I don't see but you'll have to
go with Shank's mare."

Even Aunt Pen laughed then. "Don't you really think you are going to lose me, girls?" asked she.

"No, auntie," replied Maria. "We all think you are a hypo."

"A hypo?"

"Not a hypocrite," said Mel, "but a hypochondriac."

"I wish I were," sighed Aunt Pen; "I wish I were. I should have some hope of myself then,"
said the poor inconsistent innocent. "Oh no, no; I feel it only too well; I am going fast.
You will all regret your disbelief when I am gone;" and she lay back among her pillows. "That
reminds me," she murmured, presently. "About my monument."

"Oh, Aunt Pen, do be still," said Mel.

"No," said Aunt Pen, firmly; "it may be a disagreeable duty, but that is all the better reason
for me to bring my mind to it. And if I don't attend to it now, it never will be attended to.
I know what relatives are. They put down a slab of slate with a skull and cross-bones scratched
on it, and think they've done their duty. Not that I mean any reflections on you; you're all
well-meaning, but you're giddy. I shall haunt you if you do any thing of the kind! No; you
may send Mr. Mason up here this afternoon, and I will go over his designs with him. I am going
to have carved Carrara marble, set in a base of polished Scotch granite, and the inscription
is--Girls!" cried Aunt Pen, rising and clasping her knees with unexpected energy, "I expressly
forbid my age being printed in the paper, or on the lid, or on the stone! I won't gratify every
gossip in town, that I won't! I shall take real pleasure in baffling their curiosity. And another
thing, while I am about it, don't you ask Tom Maltby to my funeral, or let him come in, if
he comes himself, on any account whatever. I should rise in my shroud if he approached me.
Yes, I should! Tom Maltby may be all very well; I dare say he is; and I hope I die at peace
with him and all mankind, as a good Christian should. I forgive him; yes, certainly, I forgive
him; but it doesn't follow that I need forget him; and, so long as I remember him, the way
he conducted in buying the pew over my head I can't get over, dead or alive. And if I only
do get well we shall have a reckoning that will make his hair stand on end--that he may rely
on!" And here Aunt Pen took the fan from Maria, and moved it actively, till she remembered
herself, when she resigned it. "One thing more," she said. "Whatever happens, Helen, don't
let me be kept over Sunday. There'll certainly be another death in the family within the year
if you do. If I die on Saturday, there's no help for it. Common decency won't let you shove
me into the ground at once, and so you will have to make up your minds for a second summons."
And Aunt Pen, contemplating the suttee of some one of us with great philosophy, lay down and
closed her eyes again. "You might have it by torchlight on Sunday night, though," said she,
half opening them. "That would be very pretty." And then she dropped off to sleep with such
a satisfied expression of countenance that we judged her to be welcoming in imagination the
guests at her last rites herself.

Whatever the dream was, she was rudely roused from it by the wreched little Israel, who came
bounding up the stairs, and, without word or warning, burst into the room, almost white with
horror. Why Israel was afraid I can't conjecture, but, at any rate, a permanent fright would
have been of great personal advantage to him. "Oh, ma'am! oh, miss! dere's a pusson down stairs,
a cullud woman, wid der small-pox!" he almost whistled in his alarm.

"With the small-pox!" cried Aunt Pen, springing into the middle of the floor, regardless of
her late repose in articulo mortis. "Go away, Israel! Have you been near her? Put her out immediately!
How on earth did she get there?"

"You allus telled me to let everybody in," chattered Israel.

"Put her out! put her out!" cried Aunt Pen, half dancing with impatience.

"We can't get her out. She's right acrost der door-step. We's feared ter tech her."

But Aunt Pen's head was out of the window, and she was shouting: "Police! fire! murder! thieves!"
possibly in the order of importance of the four calamities, but quite as if she had a plenty
of breath left; and, for a wonder, the police came to the rescue, and directly afterward an
ambulance took the poor victim of the frightful epidemic to the hospital. I believe it turned
out to be only measles after all, though.

"Run, Israel!" screamed Aunt Pen then; "run instantly and bring home a couple of pounds of
roll-brimstone, and tell the maids to riddle the furnace fire and make it as bright and hot
as possible, and to light fires in the parlor grates, and in the old Latrobe, and in every
room in the house, without losing a minute. We'll make this house too warm for it!"

And, to our amazement, as soon as Israel came darting back with the impish material, Aunt Pen
took a piece in each hand, directed us to do the same, and wrapping the blue afghan round her
shoulders, descended to the lower rooms three steps at a time, sent for the doctor to come
and vaccinate us, and having set a chair precisely over the register where a red-hot stream
of air was pouring up, she placed herself upon it and issued her orders.

Every window was closed, every grate from basement to attic had a fire lighted in it, and little
pans of brimstone were burning in every room and hall in the house, while we, astonished, indignant,
frightened, and amused, sat enduring the torments of vapor and sulphur baths to the point of
suffocation.

"I can't bear this another moment," wheezed Mel.

"It's the only way," replied Aunt Pen, serenely, with a rivulet trickling down her nose. "You
kill the germs by heat, and since we can't bake ourselves quite to death, we make sure of the
work by the fumes."

And as she sat there, her face rubicund, her swan's-down straight, drops on her cheeks, her
chin, her forehead, and wherever drops could cling, her eyes watering, her curls limp, and
an atmosphere of unbearable odor enveloping her in its cloud, the front door opened, and a
footstep rung on the tiles.

"Jess you keep out o' yer!" yelled Israel to the intruder, seeing it wasn't the doctor. "We's
got der small-pox, and am a-killing de gemmens--"

"Pen!" cried a man's voice through the smoke--a deep, melodious voice.

"What!" exclaimed Aunt Pen, starting up, and then pausing as if she fancied the horrid fumes
might have befogged her brain.

"Pen!" the voice cried again.

"Chauncey! Chauncey Read!" she shrieked. "Where do you come from? Am I dreaming?"

"From the North Pacific," answered the voice; and we dimly discerned its owner groping his
way forward. "From the five years' whaling voyage into which I was gagged and dragged--shanghaied,
they call it. O, Pen, I didn't dare to hope I should find--"

"Oh, Chauncey, is it you?" she cried, and fell fainting at his feet.

The draught from the open door after him was blowing away the smoke, and we saw what a great,
sunburned, handsome fellow it was that had caught her in his arms, and was bearing her out
to the back balcony and the fresh air there, used in the course of his whaling voyage, perhaps,
to odors no more belonging to Araby the Blest than those of burning brimstone do; and, seeing
the movement, we divined that he knew as much about the resources of the house as we did, and
so we discreetly withdrew, Israel's head being twisted behind him as he went to such extent
that you might have supposed he had had his neck wrung.

Well, we put the white silk and the tulle on Aunt Pen after all; yellow as it was, she would
have no other--only fresh, natural orange blossoms in place of the false wreath. And if we
had not so often had her word for it in past times, we never should have taken her for any
thing but the gayest bride, the most alive and happy woman in the world. They returned to the
old house from their wedding journey, and we all live together in great peace and pleasantness.
But though three years are passed and gone since Chauncey Read came home and brought a new
atmosphere with him into our lives, Aunt Pen has never had a sick day yet; and we find that
any allusion to her funeral gives her such a superstitious trembling that we are pleased to
believe it indefinitely postponed, and by tacit and mutual consent we never say any thing about
it.--Harper's Magazine, June, 1872.

SAMUEL LANGHORNE CLEMENS.

("MARK TWAIN.")

(BORN, 1835.)

       *       *       *       *       *

THE CELEBRATED JUMPING FROG OF CALAVERAS COUNTY. Well, what's he good for?"

FITZ HUGH LUDLOW. (BORN, 1836--DIED, 1870.)

       *       *       *       *       *

BEN THIRLWALL'S SCHOOLDAYS.

My name is Ben Thirlwall, and I am the son of rich but honest parents. I never had a wish ungratified
until I was twelve years of age. My wish then was to stay on a two-year-old colt which had
never been broken. He did not coincide with me, and a vast revelation of the resistances to
individual will of which the universe is capable, also of a terrestrial horizon, bottom upward,
burst upon me during the brief space which I spent in flying over his head. Picked up senseless,
I was carried to the bosom of my family on a wheelbarrow, and awoke to the consciousness that
my parents had decided on sending me to a boarding-school,--a remedy to this day sovereign
in the opinion of all well-regulated parents for all tangential aberrations from the back of
a colt or the laws of society.

The principal's name was Barker; and my only clue to his character consisted in overhearing
that he was an excellent disciplinarian. I was afraid to ask what that meant, but on reflection
concluded it to be a geographical distinction, and, associating him with Mesopotamia or Beloochistan,
expected to find him a person of mild manners, who shaved his head, wore a tall hat of dyed
sheep's wool, and did a large business in spices with people who visited him on camels in a
front-yard surrounded by sheds, and having a fountain that played in the middle.

Having read several books of travels, I was corroborated in my view when I learned that Mr.
Barker lived at the east, and still further, when on going around point Judith on the steamboat
with my father, I became very sick at the stomach, as all the travellers had done in their
first chapter.

I need not say that the reality of Mr. Barker was a very terrible awakening, which contained
no lineament of my purple dream, save the bastinado. Without distinction of age or season the
youths who, as per circular, enjoyed the softening influence of his refined Christian home,
rose to the sound of the gong at five A.M., which may have been very nice in a home for the
early Christians, but was reported among the boys to have entirely stopped the growth of Little
Briggs. This was a child, whose mother had married again, and whose step-father had felt his
duty to his future too keenly to deprive him of the benign influences of Barker at any time
in the last six years. After rising, we had ten minutes to wash our faces and hands,--a period
by the experience of mankind demonstrably insufficient, where the soap is of that kind very
properly denominated cast-steel (though purists have a different spelling), and you have to
break an inch of ice to get into the available region of your water-pitcher. Chunks, who has
since made a large fortune on war-contracts, kept himself in peanuts and four-cent pies for
an entire winter session, by selling an invention of his own, which consisted of soap, dissolved
in water on the stove during the day-time, put in bottles hooked from the lamp-room by means
of a false key, to be carried to bed and kept warm by boys, whose pocket-money and desire for
a prompt detergent in the morning were adequate to the disbursement of half a dime a package.
I myself took several violent colds from having the glass next my skin during severe nights;
but that was nothing so bad as the case of Little Briggs, who from lack of the half-dime, often
came down to prayers with a stripe of yesterday's pencil black on one side of his nose, and
a shaving of soap, which, in the frenzy of despair he had gouged out of his stony cake, on
the other. The state of mind consistent with such a condition of countenance did not favor
correct recitation of the tougher names in Deuteronomy; so, it can be a cause of surprise to
no one, that, when called on at prayers, and prompted by a ridiculous neighbor, little Briggs
sometimes asserted Joshua to have driven out the Hivites and the Amorites, and the Canaanites
and the Jebusites, and the Hittites and the Perizzites, and the Moabites and the Musquito-bites,
for which he was regularly sent to bed on Saturday afternoon, as he had no pocket-money to
stop, his papa desiring him to learn self-denial young, as he was intended for a missionary;
though goodness knows that there wasn't enough of him to go round among many heathen.

From this specimen of discipline may be learned the entire Barkerian system of training. I
was about to say, "ex uno disce omnes," but, as it's the only Latin I remember from the lot
which got rubbed into--or rather over--me at Barker's, I'm rather sparing of it, not knowing
but I can bring it in somewhere else with better effect. As with the Word of God, so with that
of man,--the grand Barkerian idea of how to fix it in a boy's memory was to send him to bed,
or excoriate his palm. If religion and polite learning could have been communicated by sheets,
like chicken-pox, or blistered into one like the stern but curative cantharides, Mr. Barker's
boys would have become the envy of mankind and the beloved of the gods; but not even Little
Briggs died young from the latter or any other cause, which speaks volumes for his constitution....

The two Misses Moodle came to establish a young ladies' seminary in the village of Mungerville,
on whose outskirts our own school was situated, bringing along with them, as the county paper
stated, "that charming atmosphere of refinement and intellectuality in which they ever moved";
and, what was of more consequence, a capital of twenty girls to start with. Professional politeness
inspired Mr. Barker to make a call on the fair strangers, which the personal fascinations of
the younger Miss Moodle induced him to repeat. The atmosphere of refinement and intellectuality
gradually acted on him in the nature of an intoxicating gas, until at length, after twenty-five
years of successfully intrenched widowhood, he laid his heart in the mits of the younger Miss
Moodle, and the two became one Barker.

As a consequence of this union, social relations began to be established between the two schools.
Mrs. Barker, of an occasional evening, wished to run down and visit her sister. If Mr. Barker
was engaged in quarrying a page of Cicero out of some stony boy in whom nature had never made
any Latin deposit, or had just put a fresh batch of offenders into the penal oven of untimely
bed, and felt compelled to run up now and then to keep up the fire under them, by a harrowing
description of the way their parents would feel if they knew of their behavior--an instrument
dear to Mr. Barker as a favorite poker to a boss-baker in love with his profession--then, after
a clucking noise, indicative of how much he would like to chuck her under the chin, but for
the presence of company, Mr. Barker would coo to Mrs. Barker, "Lovey, your pick, sweet!" waving
his hand comprehensively over the whole school-room; or "Dear, suppose we say Briggs, or Chunks,
or Thirlwall," as the case might be. The only difficulty about Briggs was clothes. That used
to be obviated by a selection from the trunks of intimate friends; and Briggs was such a nice
boy, that it was a real gratification to see him with your best jacket on. Many's the time
the old fellow has said to Chunks or me, "What a blessing that I grew! If I hadn't, how could
I ever wear your trousers?" In process of time these occasional visits, as escort to Mrs. Barker,
expanded into an attendance of all the older boys (when not in bed for moral baking purposes)
upon a series of bi-monthly soirees, given by the remaining Miss Moodle, with a superficial
view to her pupils' attainment of ease in society; and a material substratum of sandwiches,
which Miss Moodle preferred to see, through the atmosphere of refinement and intellectuality,
as "a simple repast." To this was occasionally added a refreshment, which I have seen elsewhere
only at Sunday-school picnics,--a mild tap of slightly sweetened water, which tasted as if
lemons had formerly been kept in the pail it was made in;--only for Sunday-schools they make
it strong at the outset, and add water during the hymns, with a vague but praiseworthy expectation
that, in view of the sacredness of the occasion, there will be some miraculous interposition,
as in the case of the widow's cruse, to keep the beverage up to proof; while Miss Moodle's
liquor preserved throughout the evening a weakness of which generous natures scorned to take
advantage beyond the first tumbler.

At this portion of my career I was dawned upon by Miss Tucker. From mature years I look back
with a shudder upon the number of parchmenty sandwiches which I ate, the reservoirs of lemony
water which I drank, in order to be in that lovely creature's society. I experienced agonies
in thinking how much longer it might be before I could get a coat with tails, when I calculated
how soon she would be putting up her back hair. Her eyes were as blue as I was when I thought
she liked Briggs; and she had a complexion compared with which strawberries and cream were
nowhere. When she was sent to the piano, to show people what the Moodle system could do in
the way of a musical education, I fell into a cataleptic state and floated off upon a flood
of harmony. Miss Moodle and her mits, self and lemon kids, even the sleepless eye of Barker,
watching for an indiscretion, upon the strength of which he might defensibly send somebody
to bed the next Saturday afternoon, all vanished from before me, swallowed up in a mild glory,
which contained but two objects,--an angel with low neck and short sleeves, and an insensate
hippopotamus of a piano, which did not wriggle all over with ecstasy when her white fingers
tickled him.

At such moments I would gladly have gone down on all fours, and had a key-board mortised into
my side at any expense of personal torture, if Miss Tucker could only have played a piece on
me, and herself been conscious of the chords she was awakening inside my jacket. I loved her
to that degree that my hair never seemed brushed enough when I beheld her; and I quite spoiled
the shape of my best boots through an elevation of the instep, caused by putting a rolled-up
pair of stockings inside each heel, to approximate the manly stature, at our bi-monthly meetings.
Even her friend, Miss Crickey, a mealy-faced little girl, with saffron hair, who had been pushed
by Miss Moodle so far into the higher branches, that she had a look of being perpetually frightened
to death with the expectation of hearing them crack and let her down from a great height,--seemed
beautiful to me from the mere fact of daily breathing the same air with such an angel, sharing
her liquorice-stick, and borrowing her sweet little thimble.

I had other reasons for prejudice in Miss Crickey's favor. She was the only person to whom
I could talk freely regarding the depth of my passion for Miss Tucker. Not even to the object
of that tremendous feeling could I utter a syllable which seemed in any way adequate. With
an overpowering consciousness how ridiculous it was, and not only so, but how far from original,
I could give her papers of lemon Jackson-balls, hinting simultaneously that, though plump as
her cheeks, they were not half so sweet; and through a figure, whose correct name I have since
learned to be periphrasis, I could suggest how much my soul yearned to expire on her ruby lips,
by asking if she had ever played doorkeeper; regretting that the atmosphere of refinement and
intellectuality did not admit of that healthful recreation at Moodle's, and begging her to
guess whom I would call out if I were doorkeeper myself. When she opened her blue eyes innocently,
and said, "Miss Crickey?" the intimation was rejected with a melancholy dissatisfaction, which
would have been disdain but for the character of my feelings to its source. And when, on my
pressing her for the name of the favored mortal whom she would call out if she were doorkeeper,
she slyly dropped her eyes and asked if Briggs sounded any thing like it, I savagely refused
to consider the proposition at all, and for the rest of the evening ate sandwiches to that
degree I wonder my life was not despaired of, and fled for relief to the lemony bowl. The result
of this mad vortex having been colic and calomel, after my return to Barker's on that evening,
I foreswore such dangerous excesses at the next bi-monthly; but putting a larger pair of stockings
in each boot-heel, to impress Miss Tucker with a sense of what she had lost, I devoted myself
during the earlier part of the evening to a growing young woman, of the name of Wagstaff, considerably
older than myself and runing straight up and down from whatever side one might contemplate
her. Her conversation was not entertaining, unless from the Chinese point of view, which, I
understand, distinctly favors monosyllables, and she giggled at me so persistently that I feared
Miss Tucker would think I must be making myself ridiculous; but, on her being sent to the piano,
I stood and turned over her music with a consciousness that if I ever looked impressive it
was then. All this I did in the effort to seem gay, although my heart was breaking. I had no
comfort on earth save the thought that I had been brutal to Briggs, and that he sat in an obscure
corner of the room among some little girls in Long Division, hiding, behind an assistant teacher's
skirts, the whitey-brown toe which my blacking-brush refused to refresh, while I bore my grief
upon a pair of new boots plentifully provided with squeak-leather. When Miss Tucker slipped
a little piece of paper into my hand, as I made a hollow show of passing her the sandwiches,
I came very near dropping the plate; and when I had a chance to open it unobserved, and read
the words, "Are you mad with me?" I could not occupy my cold and dreary pinnacle a moment longer,
but sought an early opportunity of squeezing her hand two seats behind the voluminous asylum
of Briggs's toes, and whispering, slightly confused by intensity of feeling, that if I had
done any thing I was sorry for, I was willing to be forgiven. From that moment I was Miss Tucker's
slave. Oh, woman, woman! The string on which you play us is as long as life; it ties your baby-bib;
it laces your queenly bodice; and on its slenderest tag we dangle everywhere!--Little Briggs
and I. (From Little Brother and Other Genre Pictures.)

SELECTIONS FROM A BRACE OF BOYS. He wont sass me again for nothing this while! Uncle Teddy,
d'ye know it wasn't a dog-fight, after all? But there's the clock striking nine! I must run
or I shall get a tardy mark, and, perhaps, she'll want to see my certificate sometimes."

"Rumbullion indeed!" said Daniel. We've wanted you for the dances.

THOMAS BAILEY ALDRICH.

(BORN, 1836.)

       *       *       *       *       *

A RIVERMOUTH ROMANCE.

"Isn't there anybody to look after him?"

"Hasn't he any family in the town?"

END OF VOL. II.

