Barbican's explanation was quite correct. The Earth, in reference to the Moon or the Projectile,
was in her last phase, or octant as it is called, and showed a sharp-horned, attenuated, but
brilliant crescent strongly relieved by the black background of the sky. Its light, rendered
a little bluish by the density of the atmospheric envelopes, was not quite as brilliant as
the Moon's. But the Earth's crescent, compared to the Lunar, was of dimensions much greater,
being fully 4 times larger. You would have called it a vast, beautiful, but very thin bow extending
over the sky. A few points, brighter than the rest, particularly in its concave part, revealed
the presence of lofty mountains, probably the Himalayahs. But they disappeared every now and
then under thick vapory spots, which are never seen on the Lunar disc. They were the thin concentric
cloud rings that surround the terrestrial sphere.

However, the travellers' eyes were soon able to trace the rest of the Earth's surface not only
with facility, but even to follow its outline with absolute delight. This was in consequence
of two different phenomena, one of which they could easily account for; but the other they
could not explain without Barbican's assistance. No wonder. Never before had mortal eye beheld
such a sight. Let us take each in its turn.

We all know that the ashy light by means of which we perceive what is called the Old Moon in
the Young Moon's arms is due to the Earth-shine, or the reflection of the solar rays from the
Earth to the Moon. By a phenomenon exactly identical, the travellers could now see that portion
of the Earth's surface which was unillumined by the Sun; only, as, in consequence of the different
areas of the respective surfaces, the Earthlight is thirteen times more intense than the Moonlight,
the dark portion of the Earth's disc appeared considerably more adumbrated than the Old Moon.

But the other phenomenon had burst on them so suddenly that they uttered a cry loud enough
to wake up Barbican from his problem. They had discovered a true starry ring! Around the Earth's
outline, a ring, of internally well defined thickness, but somewhat hazy on the outside, could
easily be traced by its surpassing brilliancy. Neither the Pleiades, the Northern Crown, the
Magellanic Clouds nor the great nebulas of Orion, or of Argo, no sparkling cluster, no corona,
no group of glittering star-dust that the travellers had ever gazed at, presented such attractions
as the diamond ring they now saw encompassing the Earth, just as the brass meridian encompasses
a terrestrial globe. The resplendency of its light enchanted them, its pure softness delighted
them, its perfect regularity astonished them. What was it? they asked Barbican. In a few words
he explained it. The beautiful luminous ring was simply an optical illusion, produced by the
refraction of the terrestrial atmosphere. All the stars in the neighborhood of the Earth, and
many actually behind it, had their rays refracted, diffused, radiated, and finally converged
to a focus by the atmosphere, as if by a double convex lens of gigantic power.

Whilst the travellers were profoundly absorbed in the contemplation of this wondrous sight,
a sparkling shower of shooting stars suddenly flashed over the Earth's dark surface, making
it for a moment as bright as the external ring. Hundreds of bolides, catching fire from contact
with the atmosphere, streaked the darkness with their luminous trails, overspreading it occasionally
with sheets of electric flame. The Earth was just then in her perihelion, and we all know that
the months of November and December are so highly favorable to the appearance of these meteoric
showers that at the famous display of November, 1866, astronomers counted as many as 8,000
between midnight and four o'clock.

Barbican explained the whole matter in a few words. The Earth, when nearest to the sun, occasionally
plunges into a group of countless meteors travelling like comets, in eccentric orbits around
the grand centre of our solar system. The atmosphere strikes the rapidly moving bodies with
such violence as to set them on fire and render them visible to us in beautiful star showers.
But to this simple explanation of the famous November meteors Ardan would not listen. He preferred
believing that Mother Earth, feeling that her three daring children were still looking at her,
though five thousand miles away, shot off her best rocket-signals to show that she still thought
of them and would never let them out of her watchful eye.

For hours they continued to gaze with indescribable interest on the faintly luminous mass so
easily distinguishable among the other heavenly bodies. Jupiter blazed on their right, Mars
flashed his ruddy light on their left, Saturn with his rings looked like a round white spot
on a black wall; even Venus they could see almost directly under them, easily recognizing her
by her soft, sweetly scintillant light. But no planet or constellation possessed any attraction
for the travellers, as long as their eyes could trace that shadowy, crescent-edged, diamond-girdled,
meteor-furrowed spheroid, the theatre of their existence, the home of so many undying desires,
the mysterious cradle of their race!

Meantime the Projectile cleaved its way upwards, rapidly, unswervingly, though with a gradually
retarding velocity. As the Earth sensibly grew darker, and the travellers' eyes grew dimmer,
an irresistible somnolency slowly stole over their weary frames. The extraordinary excitement
they had gone through during the last four or five hours, was naturally followed by a profound
reaction.

"Captain, you're nodding," said Ardan at last, after a longer silence than usual; "the fact
is, Barbican is the only wake man of the party, because he is puzzling over his problem. Dum
vivimus vivamus! As we are asleep let us be asleep!"

So saying he threw himself on the mattress, and his companions immediately followed the example.

They had been lying hardly a quarter of an hour, when Barbican started up with a cry so loud
and sudden as instantly to awaken his companions.

The bright moonlight showed them the President sitting up in his bed, his eye blazing, his
arms waving, as he shouted in a tone reminding them of the day they had found him in St. Helena
wood.

"Eureka! I've got it! I know it!"

"What have you got?" cried Ardan, bouncing up and seizing him by the right hand.

"What do you know?" cried the Captain, stretching over and seizing him by the left.

"The reason why we did not hear the report!"

"Well, why did not we hear it!" asked both rapidly in the same breath.

"Because we were shot up 30 times faster than sound can travel!"

CHAPTER III.

THEY MAKE THEMSELVES AT HOME AND FEEL QUITE COMFORTABLE.

This curious explanation given, and its soundness immediately recognized, the three friends
were soon fast wrapped in the arms of Morpheus. Where in fact could they have found a spot
more favorable for undisturbed repose? On land, where the dwellings, whether in populous city
or lonely country, continually experience every shock that thrills the Earth's crust? At sea,
where between waves or winds or paddles or screws or machinery, everything is tremor, quiver
or jar? In the air, where the balloon is incessantly twirling, oscillating, on account of the
ever varying strata of different densities, and even occasionally threatening to spill you
out? The Projectile alone, floating grandly through the absolute void, in the midst of the
profoundest silence, could offer to its inmates the possibility of enjoying slumber the most
complete, repose the most profound.

There is no telling how long our three daring travellers would have continued to enjoy their
sleep, if it had not been suddenly terminated by an unexpected noise about seven o'clock in
the morning of December 2nd, eight hours after their departure.

This noise was most decidedly of barking.

"The dogs! It's the dogs!" cried Ardan, springing up at a bound.

"They must be hungry!" observed the Captain.

"We have forgotten the poor creatures!" cried Barbican.

"Where can they have gone to?" asked Ardan, looking for them in all directions.

At last they found one of them hiding under the sofa. Thunderstruck and perfectly bewildered
by the terrible shock, the poor animal had kept close in its hiding place, never daring to
utter a sound, until at last the pangs of hunger had proved too strong even for its fright.

They readily recognized the amiable Diana, but they could not allure the shivering, whining
animal from her retreat without a good deal of coaxing. Ardan talked to her in his most honeyed
and seductive accents, while trying to pull her out by the neck.

"Come out to your friends, charming Diana," he went on, "come out, my beauty, destined for
a lofty niche in the temple of canine glory! Come out, worthy scion of a race deemed worthy
by the Egyptians to be a companion of the great god, Anubis, by the Christians, to be a friend
of the good Saint Roch! Come out and partake of a glory before which the stars of Montargis
and of St. Bernard shall henceforward pale their ineffectual fire! Come out, my lady, and let
me think o'er the countless multiplication of thy species, so that, while sailing through the
interplanetary spaces, we may indulge in endless flights of fancy on the number and variety
of thy descendants who will ere long render the Selenitic atmosphere vocal with canine ululation!"

Diana, whether flattered or not, allowed herself to be dragged out, still uttering short, plaintive
whines. A hasty examination satisfying her friends that she was more frightened than hurt and
more hungry than either, they continued their search for her companion.

"Satellite! Satellite! Step this way, sir!" cried Ardan. But no Satellite appeared and, what
was worse, not the slightest sound indicated his presence. At last he was discovered on a ledge
in the upper portion of the Projectile, whither he had been shot by the terrible concussion.
Less fortunate than his female companion, the poor fellow had received a frightful shock and
his life was evidently in great danger.

"The acclimatization project looks shaky!" cried Ardan, handing the animal very carefully and
tenderly to the others. Poor Satellite's head had been crushed against the roof, but, though
recovery seemed hopeless, they laid the body on a soft cushion, and soon had the satisfaction
of hearing it give vent to a slight sigh.

"Good!" said Ardan, "while there's life there's hope. You must not die yet, old boy. We shall
nurse you. We know our duty and shall not shirk the responsibility. I should rather lose the
right arm off my body than be the cause of your death, poor Satellite! Try a little water?"

The suffering creature swallowed the cool draught with evident avidity, then sunk into a deep
slumber.

The friends, sitting around and having nothing more to do, looked out of the window and began
once more to watch the Earth and the Moon with great attention. The glittering crescent of
the Earth was evidently narrower than it had been the preceding evening, but its volume was
still enormous when compared to the Lunar crescent, which was now rapidly assuming the proportions
of a perfect circle.

"By Jove," suddenly exclaimed Ardan, "why didn't we start at the moment of Full Earth?--that
is when our globe and the Sun were in opposition?"

"Why should we!" growled M'Nicholl.

"Because in that case we should be now looking at the great continents and the great seas in
a new light--the former glittering under the solar rays, the latter darker and somewhat shaded,
as we see them on certain maps. How I should like to get a glimpse at those poles of the Earth,
on which the eye of man has never yet lighted!"

"True," replied Barbican, "but if the Earth had been Full, the Moon would have been New, that
is to say, invisible to us on account of solar irradiation. Of the two it is much preferable
to be able to keep the point of arrival in view rather than the point of departure."

"You're right, Barbican," observed the Captain; "besides, once we're in the Moon, the long
Lunar night will give us plenty of time to gaze our full at yonder great celestial body, our
former home, and still swarming with our fellow beings."

"Our fellow beings no longer, dear boy!" cried Ardan. "We inhabit a new world peopled by ourselves
alone, the Projectile! Ardan is Barbican's fellow being, and Barbican M'Nicholl's. Beyond us,
outside us, humanity ends, and we are now the only inhabitants of this microcosm, and so we
shall continue till the moment when we become Selenites pure and simple."

"Which shall be in about eighty-eight hours from now," replied the Captain.

"Which is as much as to say--?" asked Ardan.

"That it is half past eight," replied M'Nicholl.

"My regular hour for breakfast," exclaimed Ardan, "and I don't see the shadow of a reason for
changing it now."

The proposition was most acceptable, especially to the Captain, who frequently boasted that,
whether on land or water, on mountain summits or in the depths of mines, he had never missed
a meal in all his life. In escaping from the Earth, our travellers felt that they had by no
means escaped from the laws of humanity, and their stomachs now called on them lustily to fill
the aching void. Ardan, as a Frenchman, claimed the post of chief cook, an important office,
but his companions yielded it with alacrity. The gas furnished the requisite heat, and the
provision chest supplied the materials for their first repast. They commenced with three plates
of excellent soup, extracted from Liebig's precious tablets, prepared from the best beef that
ever roamed over the Pampas.

To this succeeded several tenderloin beefsteaks, which, though reduced to a small bulk by the
hydraulic engines of the American Dessicating Company, were pronounced to be fully as tender,
juicy and savory as if they had just left the gridiron of a London Club House. Ardan even swore
that they were "bleeding," and the others were too busy to contradict him.

Preserved vegetables of various kinds, "fresher than nature," according to Ardan, gave an agreeable
variety to the entertainment, and these were followed by several cups of magnificent tea, unanimously
allowed to be the best they had ever tasted. It was an odoriferous young hyson gathered that
very year, and presented to the Emperor of Russia by the famous rebel chief Yakub Kushbegi,
and of which Alexander had expressed himself as very happy in being able to send a few boxes
to his friend, the distinguished President of the Baltimore Gun Club. To crown the meal, Ardan
unearthed an exquisite bottle of Chambertin, and, in glasses sparkling with the richest juice
of the Cote d'or, the travellers drank to the speedy union of the Earth and her satellite.

And, as if his work among the generous vineyards of Burgundy had not been enough to show his
interest in the matter, even the Sun wished to join the party. Precisely at this moment, the
Projectile beginning to leave the conical shadow cast by the Earth, the rays of the glorious
King of Day struck its lower surface, not obliquely, but perpendicularly, on account of the
slight obliquity of the Moon's orbit with that of the Earth.

"The Sun," cried Ardan.

"Of course," said Barbican, looking at his watch, "he's exactly up to time."

"How is it that we see him only through the bottom light of our Projectile?" asked Ardan.

"A moment's reflection must tell you," replied Barbican, "that when we started last night,
the Sun was almost directly below us; therefore, as we continue to move in a straight line,
he must still be in our rear."

"That's clear enough," said the Captain, "but another consideration, I'm free to say, rather
perplexes me. Since our Earth lies between us and the Sun, why don't we see the sunlight forming
a great ring around the globe, in other words, instead of the full Sun that we plainly see
there below, why do we not witness an annular eclipse?"

"Your cool, clear head has not yet quite recovered from the shock, my dear Captain;" replied
Barbican, with a smile. "For two reasons we can't see the ring eclipse: on account of the angle
the Moon's orbit makes with the Earth, the three bodies are not at present in a direct line;
we, therefore, see the Sun a little to the west of the earth; secondly, even if they were exactly
in a straight line, we should still be far from the point whence an annular eclipse would be
visible."

"That's true," said Ardan; "the cone of the Earth's shadow must extend far beyond the Moon."

"Nearly four times as far," said Barbican; "still, as the Moon's orbit and the Earth's do not
lie in exactly the same plane, a Lunar eclipse can occur only when the nodes coincide with
the period of the Full Moon, which is generally twice, never more than three times in a year.
If we had started about four days before the occurrence of a Lunar eclipse, we should travel
all the time in the dark. This would have been obnoxious for many reasons."

"One, for instance?"

"An evident one is that, though at the present moment we are moving through a vacuum, our Projectile,
steeped in the solar rays, revels in their light and heat. Hence great saving in gas, an important
point in our household economy."

In effect, the solar rays, tempered by no genial medium like our atmosphere, soon began to
glare and glow with such intensity, that the Projectile under their influence, felt like suddenly
passing from winter to summer. Between the Moon overhead and the Sun beneath it was actually
inundated with fiery rays.

"One feels good here," cried the Captain, rubbing his hands.

"A little too good," cried Ardan. "It's already like a hot-house. With a little garden clay,
I could raise you a splendid crop of peas in twenty-four hours. I hope in heaven the walls
of our Projectile won't melt like wax!"

"Don't be alarmed, dear friend," observed Barbican, quietly. "The Projectile has seen the worst
as far as heat is concerned; when tearing through the atmosphere, she endured a temperature
with which what she is liable to at present stands no comparison. In fact, I should not be
astonished if, in the eyes of our friends at Stony Hill, it had resembled for a moment or two
a red-hot meteor."

"Poor Marston must have looked on us as roasted alive!" observed Ardan.

"What could have saved us I'm sure I can't tell," replied Barbican. "I must acknowledge that
against such a danger, I had made no provision whatever."

"I knew all about it," said the Captain, "and on the strength of it, I had laid my fifth wager."

"Probably," laughed Ardan, "there was not time enough to get grilled in: I have heard of men
who dipped their fingers into molten iron with impunity."

Whilst Ardan and the Captain were arguing the point, Barbican began busying himself in making
everything as comfortable as if, instead of a four days' journey, one of four years was contemplated.
The reader, no doubt, remembers that the floor of the Projectile contained about 50 square
feet; that the chamber was nine feet high; that space was economized as much as possible, nothing
but the most absolute necessities being admitted, of which each was kept strictly in its own
place; therefore, the travellers had room enough to move around in with a certain liberty.
The thick glass window in the floor was quite as solid as any other part of it; but the Sun,
streaming in from below, lit up the Projectile strangely, producing some very singular and
startling effects of light appearing to come in by the wrong way.

The first thing now to be done was to see after the water cask and the provision chest. They
were not injured in the slightest respect, thanks to the means taken to counteract the shock.
The provisions were in good condition, and abundant enough to supply the travellers for a whole
year--Barbican having taken care to be on the safe side, in case the Projectile might land
in a deserted region of the Moon. As for the water and the other liquors, the travellers had
enough only for two months. Relying on the latest observations of astronomers, they had convinced
themselves that the Moon's atmosphere, being heavy, dense and thick in the deep valleys, springs
and streams of water could hardly fail to show themselves there. During the journey, therefore,
and for the first year of their installation on the Lunar continent, the daring travellers
would be pretty safe from all danger of hunger or thirst.

The air supply proved also to be quite satisfactory. The Reiset and Regnault apparatus for
producing oxygen contained a supply of chlorate of potash sufficient for two months. As the
productive material had to be maintained at a temperature of between 7 and 8 hundred degrees
Fahr., a steady consumption of gas was required; but here too the supply far exceeded the demand.
The whole arrangement worked charmingly, requiring only an odd glance now and then. The high
temperature changing the chlorate into a chloride, the oxygen was disengaged gradually but
abundantly, every eighteen pounds of chlorate of potash, furnishing the seven pounds of oxygen
necessary for the daily consumption of the inmates of the Projectile.

Still--as the reader need hardly be reminded--it was not sufficient to renew the exhausted
oxygen; the complete purification of the air required the absorption of the carbonic acid,
exhaled from the lungs. For nearly 12 hours the atmosphere had been gradually becoming more
and more charged with this deleterious gas, produced from the combustion of the blood by the
inspired oxygen. The Captain soon saw this, by noticing with what difficulty Diana was panting.
She even appeared to be smothering, for the carbonic acid--as in the famous Grotto del Cane
on the banks of Lake Agnano, near Naples--was collecting like water on the floor of the Projectile,
on account of its great specific gravity. It already threatened the poor dog's life, though
not yet endangering that of her masters. The Captain, seeing this state of things, hastily
laid on the floor one or two cups containing caustic potash and water, and stirred the mixture
gently: this substance, having a powerful affinity for carbonic acid, greedily absorbed it,
and after a few moments the air was completely purified.

The others had begun by this time to check off the state of the instruments. The thermometer
and the barometer were all right, except one self-recorder of which the glass had got broken.
An excellent aneroid barometer, taken safe and sound out of its wadded box, was carefully hung
on a hook in the wall. It marked not only the pressure of the air in the Projectile, but also
the quantity of the watery vapor that it contained. The needle, oscillating a little beyond
thirty, pointed pretty steadily at "Fair."

The mariner's compasses were also found to be quite free from injury. It is, of course, hardly
necessary to say that the needles pointed in no particular direction, the magnetic pole of
the Earth being unable at such a distance to exercise any appreciable influence on them. But
when brought to the Moon, it was expected that these compasses, once more subjected to the
influence of the current, would attest certain phenomena. In any case, it would be interesting
to verify if the Earth and her satellite were similarly affected by the magnetic forces.

A hypsometer, or instrument for ascertaining the heights of the Lunar mountains by the barometric
pressure under which water boils, a sextant to measure the altitude of the Sun, a theodolite
for taking horizontal or vertical angles, telescopes, of indispensable necessity when the travellers
should approach the Moon,--all these instruments, carefully examined, were found to be still
in perfect working order, notwithstanding the violence of the terrible shock at the start.

As to the picks, spades, and other tools that had been carefully selected by the Captain; also
the bags of various kinds of grain and the bundles of various kinds of shrubs, which Ardan
expected to transplant to the Lunar plains--they were all still safe in their places around
the upper corners of the Projectile.

Some other articles were also up there which evidently possessed great interest for the Frenchman.
What they were nobody else seemed to know, and he seemed to be in no hurry to tell. Every now
and then, he would climb up, by means of iron pins fixed in the wall, to inspect his treasures;
whatever they were, he arranged them and rearranged them with evident pleasure, and as he rapidly
passed a careful hand through certain mysterious boxes, he joyfully sang in the falsest possible
of false voices the lively piece from Nicolo:

    Le temps est beau, la route est belle,
    La promenade est un plaisir.

    {The day is bright, our hearts are light.}
    {How sweet to rove through wood and dell.}

or the well known air in Mignon:

    Legères hirondelles,
    Oiseaux bénis de Dieu,
    Ouvrez-ouvrez vos ailes,
    Envolez-vous! adieu!

    {Farewell, happy Swallows, farewell!}
    {With summer for ever to dwell}
    {Ye leave our northern strand}
    {For the genial southern land}
    {Balmy with breezes bland.}
    {Return? Ah, who can tell?}
    {Farewell, happy Swallows, farewell!}

Barbican was much gratified to find that his rockets and other fireworks had not received the
least injury. He relied upon them for the performance of a very important service as soon as
the Projectile, having passed the point of neutral attraction between the Earth and the Moon,
would begin to fall with accelerated velocity towards the Lunar surface. This descent, though--thanks
to the respective volumes of the attracting bodies--six times less rapid than it would have
been on the surface of the Earth, would still be violent enough to dash the Projectile into
a thousand pieces. But Barbican confidently expected by means of his powerful rockets to offer
very considerable obstruction to the violence of this fall, if not to counteract its terrible
effects altogether.

The inspection having thus given general satisfaction, the travellers once more set themselves
to watching external space through the lights in the sides and the floor of the Projectile.

Everything still appeared to be in the same state as before. Nothing was changed. The vast
arch of the celestial dome glittered with stars, and constellations blazed with a light clear
and pure enough to throw an astronomer into an ecstasy of admiration. Below them shone the
Sun, like the mouth of a white-hot furnace, his dazzling disc defined sharply on the pitch-black
back-ground of the sky. Above them the Moon, reflecting back his rays from her glowing surface,
appeared to stand motionless in the midst of the starry host.

A little to the east of the Sun, they could see a pretty large dark spot, like a hole in the
sky, the broad silver fringe on one edge fading off into a faint glimmering mist on the other--it
was the Earth. Here and there in all directions, nebulous masses gleamed like large flakes
of star dust, in which, from nadir to zenith, the eye could trace without a break that vast
ring of impalpable star powder, the famous Milky Way, through the midst of which the beams
of our glorious Sun struggle with the dusky pallor of a star of only the fourth magnitude.

Our observers were never weary of gazing on this magnificent and novel spectacle, of the grandeur
of which, it is hardly necessary to say, no description can give an adequate idea. What profound
reflections it suggested to their understandings! What vivid emotions it enkindled in their
imaginations! Barbican, desirous of commenting the story of the journey while still influenced
by these inspiring impressions, noted carefully hour by hour every fact that signalized the
beginning of his enterprise. He wrote out his notes very carefully and systematically, his
round full hand, as business-like as ever, never betraying the slightest emotion.

The Captain was quite as busy, but in a different way. Pulling out his tablets, he reviewed
his calculations regarding the motion of projectiles, their velocities, ranges and paths, their
retardations and their accelerations, jotting down the figures with a rapidity wonderful to
behold. Ardan neither wrote nor calculated, but kept up an incessant fire of small talk, now
with Barbican, who hardly ever answered him, now with M'Nicholl, who never heard him, occasionally
with Diana, who never understood him, but oftenest with himself, because, as he said, he liked
not only to talk to a sensible man but also to hear what a sensible man had to say. He never
stood still for a moment, but kept "bobbing around" with the effervescent briskness of a bee,
at one time roosting at the top of the ladder, at another peering through the floor light,
now to the right, then to the left, always humming scraps from the Opera Bouffe, but never
changing the air. In the small space which was then a whole world to the travellers, he represented
to the life the animation and loquacity of the French, and I need hardly say he played his
part to perfection.

The eventful day, or, to speak more correctly, the space of twelve hours which with us forms
a day, ended for our travellers with an abundant supper, exquisitely cooked. It was highly enjoyed.

No incident had yet occurred of a nature calculated to shake their confidence. Apprehending
none therefore, full of hope rather and already certain of success, they were soon lost in
a peaceful slumber, whilst the Projectile, moving rapidly, though with a velocity uniformly
retarding, still cleaved its way through the pathless regions of the empyrean.

CHAPTER IV.

A CHAPTER FOR THE CORNELL GIRLS.

No incident worth recording occurred during the night, if night indeed it could be called.
In reality there was now no night or even day in the Projectile, or rather, strictly speaking,
it was always night on the upper end of the bullet, and always day on the lower. Whenever,
therefore, the words night and day occur in our story, the reader will readily understand them
as referring to those spaces of time that are so called in our Earthly almanacs, and were so
measured by the travellers' chronometers.

The repose of our friends must indeed have been undisturbed, if absolute freedom from sound
or jar of any kind could secure tranquillity. In spite of its immense velocity, the Projectile
still seemed to be perfectly motionless. Not the slightest sign of movement could be detected.
Change of locality, though ever so rapid, can never reveal itself to our senses when it takes
place in a vacuum, or when the enveloping atmosphere travels at the same rate as the moving
body. Though we are incessantly whirled around the Sun at the rate of about seventy thousand
miles an hour, which of us is conscious of the slightest motion? In such a case, as far as
sensation is concerned, motion and repose are absolutely identical. Neither has any effect
one way or another on a material body. Is such a body in motion? It remains in motion until
some obstacle stops it. Is it at rest? It remains at rest until some superior force compels
it to change its position. This indifference of bodies to motion or rest is what physicists
call inertia.

Barbican and his companions, therefore, shut up in the Projectile, could readily imagine themselves
to be completely motionless. Had they been outside, the effect would have been precisely the
same. No rush of air, no jarring sensation would betray the slightest movement. But for the
sight of the Moon gradually growing larger above them, and of the Earth gradually growing smaller
beneath them, they could safely swear that they were fast anchored in an ocean of deathlike
immobility.

Towards the morning of next day (December 3), they were awakened by a joyful, but quite unexpected
sound.

"Cock-a-doodle! doo!" accompanied by a decided flapping of wings.

The Frenchman, on his feet in one instant and on the top of the ladder in another, attempted
to shut the lid of a half open box, speaking in an angry but suppressed voice:

"Stop this hullabaloo, won't you? Do you want me to fail in my great combination!"

"Hello?" cried Barbican and M'Nicholl, starting up and rubbing their eyes.

"What noise was that?" asked Barbican.

"Seems to me I heard the crowing of a cock," observed the Captain.

"I never thought your ears could be so easily deceived, Captain," cried Ardan, quickly, "Let
us try it again," and, flapping his ribs with his arms, he gave vent to a crow so loud and
natural that the lustiest chanticleer that ever saluted the orb of day might be proud of it.

The Captain roared right out, and even Barbican snickered, but as they saw that their companion
evidently wanted to conceal something, they immediately assumed straight faces and pretended
to think no more about the matter.

"Barbican," said Ardan, coming down the ladder and evidently anxious to change the conversation,
"have you any idea of what I was thinking about all night?"

"Not the slightest."

"I was thinking of the promptness of the reply you received last year from the authorities
of Cambridge University, when you asked them about the feasibility of sending a bullet to the
Moon. You know very well by this time what a perfect ignoramus I am in Mathematics. I own I
have been often puzzled when thinking on what grounds they could form such a positive opinion,
in a case where I am certain that the calculation must be an exceedingly delicate matter."

"The feasibility, you mean to say," replied Barbican, "not exactly of sending a bullet to the
Moon, but of sending it to the neutral point between the Earth and the Moon, which lies at
about nine-tenths of the journey, where the two attractions counteract each other. Because
that point once passed, the Projectile would reach the Moon's surface by virtue of its own weight."

"Well, reaching that neutral point be it;" replied Ardan, "but, once more, I should like to
know how they have been able to come at the necessary initial velocity of 12,000 yards a second?"

"Nothing simpler," answered Barbican.

"Could you have done it yourself?" asked the Frenchman.

"Without the slightest difficulty. The Captain and myself could have readily solved the problem,
only the reply from the University saved us the trouble."

"Well, Barbican, dear boy," observed Ardan, "all I've got to say is, you might chop the head
off my body, beginning with my feet, before you could make me go through such a calculation."

"Simply because you don't understand Algebra," replied Barbican, quietly.

"Oh! that's all very well!" cried Ardan, with an ironical smile. "You great x+y men think you
settle everything by uttering the word Algebra!"

"Ardan," asked Barbican, "do you think people could beat iron without a hammer, or turn up
furrows without a plough?"

"Hardly."

"Well, Algebra is an instrument or utensil just as much as a hammer or a plough, and a very
good instrument too if you know how to make use of it."

"You're in earnest?"

"Quite so."

"And you can handle the instrument right before my eyes?"

"Certainly, if it interests you so much."

"You can show me how they got at the initial velocity of our Projectile?"

"With the greatest pleasure. By taking into proper consideration all the elements of the problem,
viz.: (1) the distance between the centres of the Earth and the Moon, (2) the Earth's radius,
(3) its volume, and (4) the Moon's volume, I can easily calculate what must be the initial
velocity, and that too by a very simple formula."

"Let us have the formula."

"In one moment; only I can't give you the curve really described by the Projectile as it moves
between the Earth and the Moon; this is to be obtained by allowing for their combined movement
around the Sun. I will consider the Earth and the Sun to be motionless, that being sufficient
for our present purpose."

"Why so?"

"Because to give you that exact curve would be to solve a point in the 'Problem of the Three
Bodies,' which Integral Calculus has not yet reached."

"What!" cried Ardan, in a mocking tone, "is there really anything that Mathematics can't do?"

"Yes," said Barbican, "there is still a great deal that Mathematics can't even attempt."

"So far, so good;" resumed Ardan. "Now then what is this Integral Calculus of yours?"

"It is a branch of Mathematics that has for its object the summation of a certain infinite
series of indefinitely small terms: but for the solution of which, we must generally know the
function of which a given function is the differential coefficient. In other words," continued
Barbican, "in it we return from the differential coefficient, to the function from which it
was deduced."

"Clear as mud!" cried Ardan, with a hearty laugh.

"Now then, let me have a bit of paper and a pencil," added Barbican, "and in half an hour you
shall have your formula; meantime you can easily find something interesting to do."

In a few seconds Barbican was profoundly absorbed in his problem, while M'Nicholl was watching
out of the window, and Ardan was busily employed in preparing breakfast.

The morning meal was not quite ready, when Barbican, raising his head, showed Ardan a page
covered with algebraic signs at the end of which stood the following formula:--

 1     2   2         r         m'    r       r
--- (v' - v ) = gr {--- - 1 + --- (----- - -----) }
 2                   x         m   d - x   d - r

"Which means?" asked Ardan.

"It means," said the Captain, now taking part in the discussion, "that the half of v prime
squared minus v squared equals gr multiplied by r over x minus one plus m prime over m multiplied
by r over d minus x minus r over d minus r ... that is--"

"That is," interrupted Ardan, in a roar of laughter, "x stradlegs on y, making for z and jumping
over p! Do you mean to say you understand the terrible jargon, Captain?"

"Nothing is clearer, Ardan."

"You too, Captain! Then of course I must give in gracefully, and declare that the sun at noon-day
is not more palpably evident than the sense of Barbican's formula."

"You asked for Algebra, you know," observed Barbican.

"Rock crystal is nothing to it!"

"The fact is, Barbican," said the Captain, who had been looking over the paper, "you have worked
the thing out very well. You have the integral equation of the living forces, and I have no
doubt it will give us the result sought for."

"Yes, but I should like to understand it, you know," cried Ardan: "I would give ten years of
the Captain's life to understand it!"

"Listen then," said Barbican. "Half of v prime squared less v squared, is the formula giving
us the half variation of the living force."

"Mac pretends he understands all that!"

"You need not be a Solomon to do it," said the Captain. "All these signs that you appear to
consider so cabalistic form a language the clearest, the shortest, and the most logical, for
all those who can read it."

"You pretend, Captain, that, by means of these hieroglyphics, far more incomprehensible than
the sacred Ibis of the Egyptians, you can discover the velocity at which the Projectile should
start?"

"Most undoubtedly," replied the Captain, "and, by the same formula I can even tell you the
rate of our velocity at any particular point of our journey."

"You can?"

"I can."

"Then you're just as deep a one as our President."

"No, Ardan; not at all. The really difficult part of the question Barbican has done. That is,
to make out such an equation as takes into account all the conditions of the problem. After
that, it's a simple affair of Arithmetic, requiring only a knowledge of the four rules to work
it out."

"Very simple," observed Ardan, who always got muddled at any kind of a difficult sum in addition.

"Captain," said Barbican, "you could have found the formulas too, if you tried."

"I don't know about that," was the Captain's reply, "but I do know that this formula is wonderfully
come at."

"Now, Ardan, listen a moment," said Barbican, "and you will see what sense there is in all
these letters."

"I listen," sighed Ardan with the resignation of a martyr.

"d is the distance from the centre of the Earth to the centre of the Moon, for it is from the
centres that we must calculate the attractions."

"That I comprehend."

"r is the radius of the Earth."

"That I comprehend."

"m is the mass or volume of the Earth; m prime that of the Moon. We must take the mass of the
two attracting bodies into consideration, since attraction is in direct proportion to their
masses."

"That I comprehend."

"g is the gravity or the velocity acquired at the end of a second by a body falling towards
the centre of the Earth. Clear?"

"That I comprehend."

"Now I represent by x the varying distance that separates the Projectile from the centre of
the Earth, and by v prime its velocity at that distance."

"That I comprehend."

"Finally, v is its velocity when quitting our atmosphere."

"Yes," chimed in the Captain, "it is for this point, you see, that the velocity had to be calculated,
because we know already that the initial velocity is exactly the three halves of the velocity
when the Projectile quits the atmosphere."

"That I don't comprehend," cried the Frenchman, energetically.

"It's simple enough, however," said Barbican.

"Not so simple as a simpleton," replied the Frenchman.

"The Captain merely means," said Barbican, "that at the instant the Projectile quitted the
terrestrial atmosphere it had already lost a third of its initial velocity."

"So much as a third?"

"Yes, by friction against the atmospheric layers: the quicker its motion, the greater resistance
it encountered."

"That of course I admit, but your v squared and your v prime squared rattle in my head like
nails in a box!"

"The usual effect of Algebra on one who is a stranger to it; to finish you, our next step is
to express numerically the value of these several symbols. Now some of them are already known,
and some are to be calculated."

"Hand the latter over to me," said the Captain.

"First," continued Barbican: "r, the Earth's radius is, in the latitude of Florida, about 3,921
miles. d, the distance from the centre of the Earth to the centre of the Moon is 56 terrestrial
radii, which the Captain calculates to be...?"

"To be," cried M'Nicholl working rapidly with his pencil, "219,572 miles, the moment the Moon
is in her perigee, or nearest point to the Earth."

"Very well," continued Barbican. "Now m prime over m, that is the ratio of the Moon's mass
to that of the Earth is about the 1/81. g gravity being at Florida about 32-1/4 feet, of course
g x r must be--how much, Captain?"

"38,465 miles," replied M'Nicholl.

"Now then?" asked Ardan.

"Now then," replied Barbican, "the expression having numerical values, I am trying to find
v, that is to say, the initial velocity which the Projectile must possess in order to reach
the point where the two attractions neutralize each other. Here the velocity being null, v
prime becomes zero, and x the required distance of this neutral point must be represented by
the nine-tenths of d, the distance between the two centres."

"I have a vague kind of idea that it must be so," said Ardan.

"I shall, therefore, have the following result;" continued Barbican, figuring up; "x being
nine-tenths of d, and v prime being zero, my formula becomes:--

 2            10 r     1    10 r     r
v  = gr {1 - ----- - ---- (----- - -----) }
               d      81     d     d - r   "

The Captain read it off rapidly.

"Right! that's correct!" he cried.

"You think so?" asked Barbican.

"As true as Euclid!" exclaimed M'Nicholl.

"Wonderful fellows," murmured the Frenchman, smiling with admiration.

"You understand now, Ardan, don't you?" asked Barbican.

"Don't I though?" exclaimed Ardan, "why my head is splitting with it!"

"Therefore," continued Barbican,

" 2             10 r     1    10 r     r
2v  = 2gr {1 - ----- - ---- (----- - -----) }
                 d      81     d     d - r   "

"And now," exclaimed M'Nicholl, sharpening his pencil; "in order to obtain the velocity of
the Projectile when leaving the atmosphere, we have only to make a slight calculation."

The Captain, who before clerking on a Mississippi steamboat had been professor of Mathematics
in an Indiana university, felt quite at home at the work. He rained figures from his pencil
with a velocity that would have made Marston stare. Page after page was filled with his multiplications
and divisions, while Barbican looked quietly on, and Ardan impatiently stroked his head and
ears to keep down a rising head-ache.

"Well?" at last asked Barbican, seeing the Captain stop and throw a somewhat hasty glance over
his work.

"Well," answered M'Nicholl slowly but confidently, "the calculation is made, I think correctly;
and v, that is, the velocity of the Projectile when quitting the atmosphere, sufficient to
carry it to the neutral point, should be at least ..."

"How much?" asked Barbican, eagerly.

"Should be at least 11,972 yards the first second."

"What!" cried Barbican, jumping off his seat. "How much did you say?"

"11,972 yards the first second it quits the atmosphere."

"Oh, malediction!" cried Barbican, with a gesture of terrible despair.

"What's the matter?" asked Ardan, very much surprised.

"Enough is the matter!" answered Barbican excitedly. "This velocity having been diminished
by a third, our initial velocity should have been at least ..."

"17,958 yards the first second!" cried M'Nicholl, rapidly flourishing his pencil.

"But the Cambridge Observatory having declared that 12,000 yards the first second were sufficient,
our Projectile started with no greater velocity!"

"Well?" asked M'Nicholl.

"Well, such a velocity will never do!"

"How??" } "How!!" } cried the Captain and Ardan in one voice.

"We can never reach the neutral point!"

"Thunder and lightning"

"Fire and Fury!"

"We can't get even halfway!"

"Heaven and Earth!"

"Mille noms d'un boulet!" cried Ardan, wildly gesticulating.

"And we shall fall back to the Earth!"

"Oh!"

"Ah!"

They could say no more. This fearful revelation took them like a stroke of apoplexy.

CHAPTER V.

THE COLDS OF SPACE.

How could they imagine that the Observatory men had committed such a blunder? Barbican would
not believe it possible. He made the Captain go over his calculation again and again; but no
flaw was to be found in it. He himself carefully examined it, figure after figure, but he could
find nothing wrong. They both took up the formula and subjected it to the strongest tests;
but it was invulnerable. There was no denying the fact. The Cambridge professors had undoubtedly
blundered in saying that an initial velocity of 12,000 yards a second would be enough to carry
them to the neutral point. A velocity of nearly 18,000 yards would be the very lowest required
for such a purpose. They had simply forgotten to allow a third for friction.

The three friends kept profound silence for some time. Breakfast now was the last thing thought
of. Barbican, with teeth grating, fingers clutching, and eye-brows closely contracting, gazed
grimly through the window. The Captain, as a last resource, once more examined his calculations,
earnestly hoping to find a figure wrong. Ardan could neither sit, stand nor lie still for a
second, though he tried all three. His silence, of course, did not last long.

"Ha! ha! ha!" he laughed bitterly. "Precious scientific men! Villainous old hombogues! The
whole set not worth a straw! I hope to gracious, since we must fall, that we shall drop down
plumb on Cambridge Observatory, and not leave a single one of the miserable old women, called
professors, alive in the premises!"

A certain expression in Ardan's angry exclamation had struck the Captain like a shot, and set
his temples throbbing violently.

"Must fall!" he exclaimed, starting up suddenly. "Let us see about that! It is now seven o'clock
in the morning. We must have, therefore, been at least thirty-two hours on the road, and more
than half of our passage is already made. If we are going to fall at all, we must be falling
now! I'm certain we're not, but, Barbican, you have to find it out!"

Barbican caught the idea like lightning, and, seizing a compass, he began through the floor
window to measure the visual angle of the distant Earth. The apparent immobility of the Projectile
allowed him to do this with great exactness. Then laying aside the instrument, and wiping off
the thick drops of sweat that bedewed his forehead, he began jotting down some figures on a
piece of paper. The Captain looked on with keen interest; he knew very well that Barbican was
calculating their distance from the Earth by the apparent measure of the terrestrial diameter,
and he eyed him anxiously.

Pretty soon his friends saw a color stealing into Barbican's pale face, and a triumphant light
glittering in his eye.

"No, my brave boys!" he exclaimed at last throwing down his pencil, "we're not falling! Far
from it, we are at present more than 150 thousand miles from the Earth!"

"Hurrah!" } "Bravo!"  } cried M'Nicholl and Ardan, in a breath.

"We have passed the point where we should have stopped if we had had no more initial velocity
than the Cambridge men allowed us!"

"Hurrah! hurrah!"

"Bravo, Bravissimo!"

"And we're still going up!"

"Glory, glory, hallelujah!" sang M'Nicholl, in the highest excitement.

"Vive ce cher Barbican!" cried Ardan, bursting into French as usual whenever his feelings had
the better of him.

"Of course we're marching on!" continued M'Nicholl, "and I know the reason why, too. Those
400,000 pounds of gun-cotton gave us greater initial velocity than we had expected!"

"You're right, Captain!" added Barbican; "besides, you must not forget that, by getting rid
of the water, the Projectile was relieved of considerable weight!"

"Correct again!" cried the Captain. "I had not thought of that!"

"Therefore, my brave boys," continued Barbican, with some excitement; "away with melancholy!
We're all right!"

"Yes; everything is lovely and the goose hangs high!" cried the Captain, who on grand occasions
was not above a little slang.

"Talking of goose reminds me of breakfast," cried Ardan; "I assure you, my fright has not taken
away my appetite!"

"Yes," continued Barbican. "Captain, you're quite right. Our initial velocity very fortunately
was much greater than what our Cambridge friends had calculated for us!"

"Hang our Cambridge friends and their calculations!" cried Ardan, with some asperity; "as usual
with your scientific men they've more brass than brains! If we're not now bed-fellows with
the oysters in the Gulf of Mexico, no thanks to our kind Cambridge friends. But talking of
oysters, let me remind you again that breakfast is ready."

The meal was a most joyous one. They ate much, they talked more, but they laughed most. The
little incident of Algebra had certainly very much enlivened the situation.

"Now, my boys," Ardan went on, "all things thus turning out quite comfortable, I would just
ask you why we should not succeed? We are fairly started. No breakers ahead that I can see.
No rock on our road. It is freer than the ships on the raging ocean, aye, freer than the balloons
in the blustering air. But the ship arrives at her destination; the balloon, borne on the wings
of the wind, rises to as high an altitude as can be endured; why then should not our Projectile
reach the Moon?"

"It will reach the Moon!" nodded Barbican.

"We shall reach the Moon or know for what!" cried M'Nicholl, enthusiastically.

"The great American nation must not be disappointed!" continued Ardan. "They are the only people
on Earth capable of originating such an enterprise! They are the only people capable of producing
a Barbican!"

"Hurrah!" cried M'Nicholl.

"That point settled," continued the Frenchman, "another question comes up to which I have not
yet called your attention. When we get to the Moon, what shall we do there? How are we going
to amuse ourselves? I'm afraid our life there will be awfully slow!"

His companions emphatically disclaimed the possibility of such a thing.

"You may deny it, but I know better, and knowing better, I have laid in my stores accordingly.
You have but to choose. I possess a varied assortment. Chess, draughts, cards, dominoes--everything
in fact, but a billiard table?"

"What!" exclaimed Barbican; "cumbered yourself with such gimcracks?"

"Such gimcracks are not only good to amuse ourselves with, but are eminently calculated also
to win us the friendship of the Selenites."

"Friend Michael," said Barbican, "if the Moon is inhabited at all, her inhabitants must have
appeared several thousand years before the advent of Man on our Earth, for there seems to be
very little doubt that Luna is considerably older than Terra in her present state. Therefore,
Selenites, if their brain is organized like our own, must have by this time invented all that
we are possessed of, and even much which we are still to invent in the course of ages. The
probability is that, instead of their learning from us, we shall have much to learn from them."

"What!" asked Ardan, "you think they have artists like Phidias, Michael Angelo and Raphael?"

"Certainly."

"And poets like Homer, Virgil, Dante, Shakspeare, Göthe and Hugo?"

"Not a doubt of it."

"And philosophers like Plato, Aristotle, Descartes, Bacon, Kant?"

"Why not?"

"And scientists like Euclid, Archimedes, Copernicus, Newton, Pascal?"

"I should think so."

"And famous actors, and singers, and composers, and--and photographers?"

"I could almost swear to it."

"Then, dear boy, since they have gone ahead as far as we and even farther, why have not those
great Selenites tried to start a communication with the Earth? Why have they not fired a projectile
from the regions lunar to the regions terrestrial?"

"Who says they have not done so?" asked Barbican, coolly.

"Attempting such a communication," observed the Captain, "would certainly be much easier for
them than for us, principally for two reasons. First, attraction on the Moon's surface being
six times less than on the Earth's, a projectile could be sent off more rapidly; second, because,
as this projectile need be sent only 24 instead of 240 thousand miles, they could do it with
a quantity of powder ten times less than what we should require for the same purpose."

"Then I ask again," said the Frenchman; "why haven't they made such an attempt?"

"And I reply again," answered Barbican. "How do you know that they have not made such an attempt?"

"Made it? When?"

"Thousands of years ago, before the invention of writing, before even the appearance of Man
on the Earth."

"But the bullet?" asked Ardan, triumphantly; "Where's the bullet? Produce the bullet!"

"Friend Michael," answered Barbican, with a quiet smile, "you appear to forget that the 5/6
of the surface of our Earth is water. 5 to 1, therefore, that the bullet is more likely to
be lying this moment at the bottom of the Atlantic or the Pacific than anywhere else on the
surface of our globe. Besides, it may have sunk into some weak point of the surface, at the
early epoch when the crust of the Earth had not acquired sufficient solidity."

"Captain," said Ardan, turning with a smile to M'Nicholl; "no use in trying to catch Barby;
slippery as an eel, he has an answer for everything. Still I have a theory on the subject myself,
which I think it no harm to ventilate. It is this: The Selenites have never sent us any projectile
at all, simply because they had no gunpowder: being older and wiser than we, they were never
such fools as to invent any.--But, what's that? Diana howling for her breakfast! Good! Like
genuine scientific men, while squabbling over nonsense, we let the poor animals die of hunger.
Excuse us, Diana; it is not the first time the little suffer from the senseless disputes of
the great."

So saying he laid before the animal a very toothsome pie, and contemplated with evident pleasure
her very successful efforts towards its hasty and complete disappearance.

"Looking at Diana," he went on, "makes me almost wish we had made a Noah's Ark of our Projectile
by introducing into it a pair of all the domestic animals!"

"Not room enough," observed Barbican.

"No doubt," remarked the Captain, "the ox, the cow, the horse, the goat, all the ruminating
animals would be very useful in the Lunar continent. But we couldn't turn our Projectile into
a stable, you know."

"Still, we might have made room for a pair of poor little donkeys!" observed Ardan; "how I
love the poor beasts. Fellow feeling, you will say. No doubt, but there really is no animal
I pity more. They are the most ill-treated brutes in all creation. They are not only banged
during life; they are banged worse after death!"

"Hey! How do you make that out?" asked his companions, surprised.

"Because we make their skins into drum heads!" replied Ardan, with an air, as if answering
a conundrum.

Barbican and M'Nicholl could hardly help laughing at the absurd reply of their lively companion,
but their hilarity was soon stopped by the expression his face assumed as he bent over Satellite's
body, where it lay stretched on the sofa.

"What's the matter now?" asked Barbican.

"Satellite's attack is over," replied Ardan.

"Good!" said M'Nicholl, misunderstanding him.

"Yes, I suppose it is good for the poor fellow," observed Ardan, in melancholy accents. "Life
with one's skull broken is hardly an enviable possession. Our grand acclimatization project
is knocked sky high, in more senses than one!"

There was no doubt of the poor dog's death. The expression of Ardan's countenance, as he looked
at his friends, was of a very rueful order.

"Well," said the practical Barbican, "there's no help for that now; the next thing to be done
is to get rid of the body. We can't keep it here with us forty-eight hours longer."

"Of course not," replied the Captain, "nor need we; our lights, being provided with hinges,
can be lifted back. What is to prevent us from opening one of them, and flinging the body out
through it!"

The President of the Gun Club reflected a few minutes; then he spoke:

"Yes, it can be done; but we must take the most careful precautions."

"Why so?" asked Ardan.

"For two simple reasons;" replied Barbican; "the first refers to the air enclosed in the Projectile,
and of which we must be very careful to lose only the least possible quantity."

"But as we manufacture air ourselves!" objected Ardan.

"We manufacture air only partly, friend Michael," replied Barbican. "We manufacture only oxygen;
we can't supply nitrogen--By the bye, Ardan, won't you watch the apparatus carefully every
now and then to see that the oxygen is not generated too freely. Very serious consequences
would attend an immoderate supply of oxygen--No, we can't manufacture nitrogen, which is so
absolutely necessary for our air and which might escape readily through the open windows."

"What! the few seconds we should require for flinging out poor Satellite?"

"A very few seconds indeed they should be," said Barbican, very gravely.

"Your second reason?" asked Ardan.

"The second reason is, that we must not allow the external cold, which must be exceedingly
great, to penetrate into our Projectile and freeze us alive."

"But the Sun, you know--"

"Yes, the Sun heats our Projectile, but it does not heat the vacuum through which we are now
floating. Where there is no air there can neither be heat nor light; just as wherever the rays
of the Sun do not arrive directly, it must be both cold and dark. The temperature around us,
if there be anything that can be called temperature, is produced solely by stellar radiation.
I need not say how low that is in the scale, or that it would be the temperature to which our
Earth should fall, if the Sun were suddenly extinguished."

"Little fear of that for a few more million years," said M'Nicholl.

"Who can tell?" asked Ardan. "Besides, even admitting that the Sun will not soon be extinguished,
what is to prevent the Earth from shooting away from him?"

"Let friend Michael speak," said Barbican, with a smile, to the Captain; "we may learn something."

"Certainly you may," continued the Frenchman, "if you have room for anything new. Were we not
struck by a comet's tail in 1861?"

"So it was said, anyhow," observed the Captain. "I well remember what nonsense there was in
the papers about the 'phosphorescent auroral glare.'"

"Well," continued the Frenchman, "suppose the comet of 1861 influenced the Earth by an attraction
superior to the Sun's. What would be the consequence? Would not the Earth follow the attracting
body, become its satellite, and thus at last be dragged off to such a distance that the Sun's
rays could no longer excite heat on her surface?"

"Well, that might possibly occur," said Barbican slowly, "but even then I question if the consequences
would be so terrible as you seem to apprehend."

"Why not?"

"Because the cold and the heat might still manage to be nearly equalized on our globe. It has
been calculated that, had the Earth been carried off by the comet of '61, when arrived at her
greatest distance, she would have experienced a temperature hardly sixteen times greater than
the heat we receive from the Moon, which, as everybody knows, produces no appreciable effect,
even when concentrated to a focus by the most powerful lenses."

"Well then," exclaimed Ardan, "at such a temperature--"

"Wait a moment," replied Barbican. "Have you never heard of the principle of compensation?
Listen to another calculation. Had the Earth been dragged along with the comet, it has been
calculated that at her perihelion, or nearest point to the Sun, she would have to endure a
heat 28,000 times greater than our mean summer temperature. But this heat, fully capable of
turning the rocks into glass and the oceans into vapor, before proceeding to such extremity,
must have first formed a thick interposing ring of clouds, and thus considerably modified the
excessive temperature. Therefore, between the extreme cold of the aphelion and the excessive
heat of the perihelion, by the great law of compensation, it is probable that the mean temperature
would be tolerably endurable."

"At how many degrees is the temperature of the interplanetary space estimated?" asked M'Nicholl.

"Some time ago," replied Barbican, "this temperature was considered to be very low indeed--millions
and millions of degrees below zero. But Fourrier of Auxerre, a distinguished member of the
Académie des Sciences, whose Mémoires on the temperature of the Planetary spaces appeared about
1827, reduced these figures to considerably diminished proportions. According to his careful
estimation, the temperature of space is not much lower than 70 or 80 degrees Fahr. below zero."

"No more?" asked Ardan.

"No more," answered Barbican, "though I must acknowledge we have only his word for it, as the
Mémoire in which he had recorded all the elements of that important determination, has been
lost somewhere, and is no longer to be found."

"I don't attach the slightest importance to his, or to any man's words, unless they are sustained
by reliable evidence," exclaimed M'Nicholl. "Besides, if I'm not very much mistaken, Pouillet--another
countryman of yours, Ardan, and an Academician as well as Fourrier--esteems the temperature
of interplanetary spaces to be at least 256° Fahr. below zero. This we can easily verify for
ourselves this moment by actual experiment."

"Not just now exactly," observed Barbican, "for the solar rays, striking our Projectile directly,
would give us a very elevated instead of a very low temperature. But once arrived at the Moon,
during those nights fifteen days long, which each of her faces experiences alternately, we
shall have plenty of time to make an experiment with every condition in our favor. To be sure,
our Satellite is at present moving in a vacuum."

"A vacuum?" asked Ardan; "a perfect vacuum?"

"Well, a perfect vacuum as far as air is concerned."

"But is the air replaced by nothing?"

"Oh yes," replied Barbican. "By ether."

"Ah, ether! and what, pray, is ether?"

"Ether, friend Michael, is an elastic gas consisting of imponderable atoms, which, as we are
told by works on molecular physics, are, in proportion to their size, as far apart as the celestial
bodies are from each other in space. This distance is less than the 1/3000000 x 1/1000', or
the one trillionth of a foot. The vibrations of the molecules of this ether produce the sensations
of light and heat, by making 430 trillions of undulations per second, each undulation being
hardly more than the one ten-millionth of an inch in width."

"Trillions per second! ten-millionths of an inch in width!" cried Ardan. "These oscillations
have been very neatly counted and ticketed, and checked off! Ah, friend Barbican," continued
the Frenchman, shaking his head, "these numbers are just tremendous guesses, frightening the
ear but revealing nothing to the intelligence."

"To get ideas, however, we must calculate--"

"No, no!" interrupted Ardan: "not calculate, but compare. A trillion tells you nothing--Comparison,
everything. For instance, you say, the volume of Uranus is 76 times greater than the Earth's;
Saturn's 900 times greater; Jupiter's 1300 times greater; the Sun's 1300 thousand times greater--You
may tell me all that till I'm tired hearing it, and I shall still be almost as ignorant as
ever. For my part I prefer to be told one of those simple comparisons that I find in the old
almanacs: The Sun is a globe two feet in diameter; Jupiter, a good sized orange; Saturn, a
smaller orange; Neptune, a plum; Uranus, a good sized cherry; the Earth, a pea; Venus, also
a pea but somewhat smaller; Mars, a large pin's head; Mercury, a mustard seed; Juno, Ceres,
Vesta, Pallas, and the other asteroids so many grains of sand. Be told something like that,
and you have got at least the tail of an idea!"

This learned burst of Ardan's had the natural effect of making his hearers forget what they
had been arguing about, and they therefore proceeded at once to dispose of Satellite's body.
It was a simple matter enough--no more than to fling it out of the Projectile into space, just
as the sailors get rid of a dead body by throwing it into the sea. Only in this operation they
had to act, as Barbican recommended, with the utmost care and dispatch, so as to lose as little
as possible of the internal air, which, by its great elasticity, would violently strive to
escape. The bolts of the floor-light, which was more than a foot in diameter, were carefully
unscrewed, while Ardan, a good deal affected, prepared to launch his dog's body into space.
The glass, worked by a powerful lever which enabled it to overcome the pressure of the enclosed
air, turned quickly on its hinges, and poor Satellite was dropped out. The whole operation
was so well managed that very little air escaped, and ever afterwards Barbican employed the
same means to rid the Projectile of all the litter and other useless matter by which it was
occasionally encumbered.

The evening of this third of December wore away without further incident. As soon as Barbican
had announced that the Projectile was still winging its way, though with retarded velocity,
towards the lunar disc, the travellers quietly retired to rest.

CHAPTER VI.

INSTRUCTIVE CONVERSATION.

On the fourth of December, the Projectile chronometers marked five o'clock in the morning,
just as the travellers woke up from a pleasant slumber. They had now been 54 hours on their
journey. As to lapse of time, they had passed not much more than half of the number of hours
during which their trip was to last; but, as to lapse of space, they had already accomplished
very nearly the seven-tenths of their passage. This difference between time and distance was
due to the regular retardation of their velocity.

They looked at the earth through the floor-light, but it was little more than visible--a black
spot drowned in the solar rays. No longer any sign of a crescent, no longer any sign of ashy
light. Next day, towards midnight, the Earth was to be new, at the precise moment when the
Moon was to be full. Overhead, they could see the Queen of Night coming nearer and nearer to
the line followed by the Projectile, and evidently approaching the point where both should
meet at the appointed moment. All around, the black vault of heaven was dotted with luminous
points which seemed to move somewhat, though, of course, in their extreme distance their relative
size underwent no change. The Sun and the stars looked exactly as they had appeared when observed
from the Earth. The Moon indeed had become considerably enlarged in size, but the travellers'
telescopes were still too weak to enable them to make any important observation regarding the
nature of her surface, or that might determine her topographical or geological features.

Naturally, therefore, the time slipped away in endless conversation. The Moon, of course, was
the chief topic. Each one contributed his share of peculiar information, or peculiar ignorance,
as the case might be. Barbican and M'Nicholl always treated the subject gravely, as became
learned scientists, but Ardan preferred to look on things with the eye of fancy. The Projectile,
its situation, its direction, the incidents possible to occur, the precautions necessary to
take in order to break the fall on the Moon's surface--these and many other subjects furnished
endless food for constant debate and inexhaustible conjectures.

For instance, at breakfast that morning, a question of Ardan's regarding the Projectile drew
from Barbican an answer curious enough to be reported.

"Suppose, on the night that we were shot up from Stony Hill," said Ardan, "suppose the Projectile
had encountered some obstacle powerful enough to stop it--what would be the consequence of
the sudden halt?"

"But," replied Barbican, "I don't understand what obstacle it could have met powerful enough
to stop it."

"Suppose some obstacle, for the sake of argument," said Ardan.

"Suppose what can't be supposed," replied the matter-of-fact Barbican, "what cannot possibly
be supposed, unless indeed the original impulse proved too weak. In that case, the velocity
would have decreased by degrees, but the Projectile itself would not have suddenly stopped."

"Suppose it had struck against some body in space."

"What body, for instance?"

"Well, that enormous bolide which we met."

"Oh!" hastily observed the Captain, "the Projectile would have been dashed into a thousand
pieces and we along with it."

"Better than that," observed Barbican; "we should have been burned alive."

"Burned alive!" laughed Ardan. "What a pity we missed so interesting an experiment! How I should
have liked to find out how it felt!"

"You would not have much time to record your observations, friend Michael, I assure you," observed
Barbican. "The case is plain enough. Heat and motion are convertible terms. What do we mean
by heating water? Simply giving increased, in fact, violent motion to its molecules."

"Well!" exclaimed the Frenchman, "that's an ingenious theory any how!"

"Not only ingenious but correct, my dear friend, for it completely explains all the phenomena
of caloric. Heat is nothing but molecular movement, the violent oscillation of the particles
of a body. When you apply the brakes to the train, the train stops. But what has become of
its motion? It turns into heat and makes the brakes hot. Why do people grease the axles? To
hinder them from getting too hot, which they assuredly would become if friction was allowed
to obstruct the motion. You understand, don't you?"

"Don't I though?" replied Ardan, apparently in earnest. "Let me show you how thoroughly. When
I have been running hard and long, I feel myself perspiring like a bull and hot as a furnace.
Why am I then forced to stop? Simply because my motion has been transformed into heat! Of course,
I understand all about it!"

Barbican smiled a moment at this comical illustration of his theory and then went on:

"Accordingly, in case of a collision it would have been all over instantly with our Projectile.
You have seen what becomes of the bullet that strikes the iron target. It is flattened out
of all shape; sometimes it is even melted into a thin film. Its motion has been turned into
heat. Therefore, I maintain that if our Projectile had struck that bolide, its velocity, suddenly
checked, would have given rise to a heat capable of completely volatilizing it in less than
a second."

"Not a doubt of it!" said the Captain. "President," he added after a moment, "haven't they
calculated what would be the result, if the Earth were suddenly brought to a stand-still in
her journey, through her orbit?"

"It has been calculated," answered Barbican, "that in such a case so much heat would be developed
as would instantly reduce her to vapor."

"Hm!" exclaimed Ardan; "a remarkably simple way for putting an end to the world!"

"And supposing the Earth to fall into the Sun?" asked the Captain.

"Such a fall," answered Barbican, "according to the calculations of Tyndall and Thomson, would
develop an amount of heat equal to that produced by sixteen hundred globes of burning coal,
each globe equal in size to the earth itself. Furthermore such a fall would supply the Sun
with at least as much heat as he expends in a hundred years!"

"A hundred years! Good! Nothing like accuracy!" cried Ardan. "Such infallible calculators as
Messrs. Tyndall and Thomson I can easily excuse for any airs they may give themselves. They
must be of an order much higher than that of ordinary mortals like us!"

"I would not answer myself for the accuracy of such intricate problems," quietly observed Barbican;
"but there is no doubt whatever regarding one fact: motion suddenly interrupted always develops
heat. And this has given rise to another theory regarding the maintenance of the Sun's temperature
at a constant point. An incessant rain of bolides falling on his surface compensates sufficiently
for the heat that he is continually giving forth. It has been calculated--"

"Good Lord deliver us!" cried Ardan, putting his hands to his ears: "here comes Tyndall and
Thomson again!"

--"It has been calculated," continued Barbican, not heeding the interruption, "that the shock
of every bolide drawn to the Sun's surface by gravity, must produce there an amount of heat
equal to that of the combustion of four thousand blocks of coal, each the same size as the
falling bolide."

"I'll wager another cent that our bold savants calculated the heat of the Sun himself," cried
Ardan, with an incredulous laugh.

"That is precisely what they have done," answered Barbican referring to his memorandum book;
"the heat emitted by the Sun," he continued, "is exactly that which would be produced by the
combustion of a layer of coal enveloping the Sun's surface, like an atmosphere, 17 miles in
thickness."

"Well done! and such heat would be capable of--?"

"Of melting in an hour a stratum of ice 2400 feet thick, or, according to another calculation,
of raising a globe of ice-cold water, 3 times the size of our Earth, to the boiling point in
an hour."

"Why not calculate the exact fraction of a second it would take to cook a couple of eggs?"
laughed Ardan. "I should as soon believe in one calculation as in the other.--But--by the by--why
does not such extreme heat cook us all up like so many beefsteaks?"

"For two very good and sufficient reasons," answered Barbican. "In the first place, the terrestrial
atmosphere absorbs the 4/10 of the solar heat. In the second, the quantity of solar heat intercepted
by the Earth is only about the two billionth part of all that is radiated."

"How fortunate to have such a handy thing as an atmosphere around us," cried the Frenchman;
"it not only enables us to breathe, but it actually keeps us from sizzling up like griskins."

"Yes," said the Captain, "but unfortunately we can't say so much for the Moon."

"Oh pshaw!" cried Ardan, always full of confidence. "It's all right there too! The Moon is
either inhabited or she is not. If she is, the inhabitants must breathe. If she is not, there
must be oxygen enough left for we, us and co., even if we should have to go after it to the
bottom of the ravines, where, by its gravity, it must have accumulated! So much the better!
we shall not have to climb those thundering mountains!"

So saying, he jumped up and began to gaze with considerable interest on the lunar disc, which
just then was glittering with dazzling brightness.

"By Jove!" he exclaimed at length; "it must be pretty hot up there!"

"I should think so," observed the Captain; "especially when you remember that the day up there
lasts 360 hours!"

"Yes," observed Barbican, "but remember on the other hand that the nights are just as long,
and, as the heat escapes by radiation, the mean temperature cannot be much greater than that
of interplanetary space."

"A high old place for living in!" cried Ardan. "No matter! I wish we were there now! Wouldn't
it be jolly, dear boys, to have old Mother Earth for our Moon, to see her always on our sky,
never rising, never setting, never undergoing any change except from New Earth to Last Quarter!
Would not it be fun to trace the shape of our great Oceans and Continents, and to say: 'there
is the Mediterranean! there is China! there is the gulf of Mexico! there is the white line
of the Rocky Mountains where old Marston is watching for us with his big telescope!' Then we
should see every line, and brightness, and shadow fade away by degrees, as she came nearer
and nearer to the Sun, until at last she sat completely lost in his dazzling rays! But--by
the way--Barbican, are there any eclipses in the Moon?"

"O yes; solar eclipses" replied Barbican, "must always occur whenever the centres of the three
heavenly bodies are in the same line, the Earth occupying the middle place. However, such eclipses
must always be annular, as the Earth, projected like a screen on the solar disc, allows more
than half of the Sun to be still visible."

"How is that?" asked M'Nicholl, "no total eclipses in the Moon? Surely the cone of the Earth's
shadow must extend far enough to envelop her surface?"

"It does reach her, in one sense," replied Barbican, "but it does not in another. Remember
the great refraction of the solar rays that must be produced by the Earth's atmosphere. It
is easy to show that this refraction prevents the Sun from ever being totally invisible. See
here!" he continued, pulling out his tablets, "Let a represent the horizontal parallax, and
b the half of the Sun's apparent diameter--"

"Ouch!" cried the Frenchman, making a wry face, "here comes Mr. x square riding to the mischief
on a pair of double zeros again! Talk English, or Yankee, or Dutch, or Greek, and I'm your
man! Even a little Arabic I can digest! But hang me, if I can endure your Algebra!"

"Well then, talking Yankee," replied Barbican with a smile, "the mean distance of the Moon
from the Earth being sixty terrestrial radii, the length of the conic shadow, in consequence
of atmospheric refraction, is reduced to less than forty-two radii. Consequently, at the moment
of an eclipse, the Moon is far beyond the reach of the real shadow, so that she can see not
only the border rays of the Sun, but even those proceeding from his very centre."

"Oh then," cried Ardan with a loud laugh, "we have an eclipse of the Sun at the moment when
the Sun is quite visible! Isn't that very like a bull, Mr. Philosopher Barbican?"

"Yet it is perfectly true notwithstanding," answered Barbican. "At such a moment the Sun is
not eclipsed, because we can see him: and then again he is eclipsed because we see him only
by means of a few of his rays, and even these have lost nearly all their brightness in their
passage through the terrestrial atmosphere!"

"Barbican is right, friend Michael," observed the Captain slowly: "the same phenomenon occurs
on earth every morning at sunrise, when refraction shows us

                           'the Sun new ris'n
    Looking through the horizontal misty air,
    Shorn of his beams.'"

"He must be right," said Ardan, who, to do him justice, though quick at seeing a reason, was
quicker to acknowledge its justice: "yes, he must be right, because I begin to understand at
last very clearly what he really meant. However, we can judge for ourselves when we get there.--But,
apropos of nothing, tell me, Barbican, what do you think of the Moon being an ancient comet,
which had come so far within the sphere of the Earth's attraction as to be kept there and turned
into a satellite?"

"Well, that is an original idea!" said Barbican with a smile.

"My ideas generally are of that category," observed Ardan with an affectation of dry pomposity.

"Not this time, however, friend Michael," observed M'Nicholl.

"Oh! I'm a plagiarist, am I?" asked the Frenchman, pretending to be irritated.

"Well, something very like it," observed M'Nicholl quietly. "Apollonius Rhodius, as I read
one evening in the Philadelphia Library, speaks of the Arcadians of Greece having a tradition
that their ancestors were so ancient that they inhabited the Earth long before the Moon had
ever become our satellite. They therefore called them [Greek: Proselênoi] or Ante-lunarians.
Now starting with some such wild notion as this, certain scientists have looked on the Moon
as an ancient comet brought close enough to the Earth to be retained in its orbit by terrestrial
attraction."

"Why may not there be something plausible in such a hypothesis?" asked Ardan with some curiosity.

"There is nothing whatever in it," replied Barbican decidedly: "a simple proof is the fact
that the Moon does not retain the slightest trace of the vaporous envelope by which comets
are always surrounded."

"Lost her tail you mean," said Ardan. "Pooh! Easy to account for that! It might have got cut
off by coming too close to the Sun!"

"It might, friend Michael, but an amputation by such means is not very likely."

"No? Why not?"

"Because--because--By Jove, I can't say, because I don't know," cried Barbican with a quiet
smile on his countenance.

"Oh what a lot of volumes," cried Ardan, "could be made out of what we don't know!"

"At present, for instance," observed M'Nicholl, "I don't know what o'clock it is."

"Three o'clock!" said Barbican, glancing at his chronometer.

"No!" cried Ardan in surprise. "Bless us! How rapidly the time passes when we are engaged in
scientific conversation! Ouf! I'm getting decidedly too learned! I feel as if I had swallowed
a library!"

"I feel," observed M'Nicholl, "as if I had been listening to a lecture on Astronomy in the
Star course."

"Better stir around a little more," said the Frenchman; "fatigue of body is the best antidote
to such severe mental labor as ours. I'll run up the ladder a bit." So saying, he paid another
visit to the upper portion of the Projectile and remained there awhile whistling Malbrouk,
whilst his companions amused themselves in looking through the floor window.

Ardan was coming down the ladder, when his whistling was cut short by a sudden exclamation
of surprise.

"What's the matter?" asked Barbican quickly, as he looked up and saw the Frenchman pointing
to something outside the Projectile.

Approaching the window, Barbican saw with much surprise a sort of flattened bag floating in
space and only a few yards off. It seemed perfectly motionless, and, consequently, the travellers
knew that it must be animated by the same ascensional movement as themselves.

"What on earth can such a consarn be, Barbican?" asked Ardan, who every now and then liked
to ventilate his stock of American slang. "Is it one of those particles of meteoric matter
you were speaking of just now, caught within the sphere of our Projectile's attraction and
accompanying us to the Moon?"

"What I am surprised at," observed the Captain, "is that though the specific gravity of that
body is far inferior to that of our Projectile, it moves with exactly the same velocity."

"Captain," said Barbican, after a moment's reflection, "I know no more what that object is
than you do, but I can understand very well why it keeps abreast with the Projectile."

"Very well then, why?"

"Because, my dear Captain, we are moving through a vacuum, and because all bodies fall or move--the
same thing--with equal velocity through a vacuum, no matter what may be their shape or their
specific gravity. It is the air alone that makes a difference of weight. Produce an artificial
vacuum in a glass tube and you will see that all objects whatever falling through, whether
bits of feather or grains of shot, move with precisely the same rapidity. Up here, in space,
like cause and like effect."

"Correct," assented M'Nicholl. "Everything therefore that we shall throw out of the Projectile
is bound to accompany us to the Moon."

"Well, we were smart!" cried Ardan suddenly.

"How so, friend Michael?" asked Barbican.

"Why not have packed the Projectile with ever so many useful objects, books, instruments, tools,
et cetera, and fling them out into space once we were fairly started! They would have all followed
us safely! Nothing would have been lost! And--now I think on it--why not fling ourselves out
through the window? Shouldn't we be as safe out there as that bolide? What fun it would be
to feel ourselves sustained and upborne in the ether, more highly favored even than the birds,
who must keep on flapping their wings continually to prevent themselves from falling!"

"Very true, my dear boy," observed Barbican; "but how could we breathe?"

"It's a fact," exclaimed the Frenchman. "Hang the air for spoiling our fun! So we must remain
shut up in our Projectile?"

"Not a doubt of it!"

--"Oh Thunder!" roared Ardan, suddenly striking his forehead.

"What ails you?" asked the Captain, somewhat surprised.

"Now I know what that bolide of ours is! Why didn't we think of it before? It is no asteroid!
It is no particle of meteoric matter! Nor is it a piece of a shattered planet!"

"What is it then?" asked both of his companions in one voice.

"It is nothing more or less than the body of the dog that we threw out yesterday!"

So in fact it was. That shapeless, unrecognizable mass, melted, expunged, flat as a bladder
under an unexhausted receiver, drained of its air, was poor Satellite's body, flying like a
rocket through space, and rising higher and higher in close company with the rapidly ascending
Projectile!

CHAPTER VII.

A HIGH OLD TIME.

A new phenomenon, therefore, strange but logical, startling but admitting of easy explanation,
was now presented to their view, affording a fresh subject for lively discussion. Not that
they disputed much about it. They soon agreed on a principle from which they readily deducted
the following general law: Every object thrown out of the Projectile should partake of the
Projectile's motion: it should therefore follow the same path, and never cease to move until
the Projectile itself came to a stand-still.

But, in sober truth, they were at anything but a loss of subjects of warm discussion. As the
end of their journey began to approach, their senses became keener and their sensations vivider.
Steeled against surprise, they looked for the unexpected, the strange, the startling; and the
only thing at which they would have wondered would be to be five minutes without having something
new to wonder at. Their excited imaginations flew far ahead of the Projectile, whose velocity,
by the way, began to be retarded very decidedly by this time, though, of course, the travellers
had as yet no means to become aware of it. The Moon's size on the sky was meantime getting
larger and larger; her apparent distance was growing shorter and shorter, until at last they
could almost imagine that by putting their hands out they could nearly touch her.

Next morning, December 5th, all were up and dressed at a very early hour. This was to be the
last day of their journey, if all calculations were correct. That very night, at 12 o'clock,
within nineteen hours at furthest, at the very moment of Full Moon, they were to reach her
resplendent surface. At that hour was to be completed the most extraordinary journey ever undertaken
by man in ancient or modern times. Naturally enough, therefore, they found themselves unable
to sleep after four o'clock in the morning; peering upwards through the windows now visibly
glittering under the rays of the Moon, they spent some very exciting hours in gazing at her
slowly enlarging disc, and shouting at her with confident and joyful hurrahs.

The majestic Queen of the Stars had now risen so high in the spangled heavens that she could
hardly rise higher. In a few degrees more she would reach the exact point of space where her
junction with the Projectile was to be effected. According to his own observations, Barbican
calculated that they should strike her in the northern hemisphere, where her plains, or seas
as they are called, are immense, and her mountains are comparatively rare. This, of course,
would be so much the more favorable, if, as was to be apprehended, the lunar atmosphere was
confined exclusively to the low lands.

"Besides," as Ardan observed, "a plain is a more suitable landing place than a mountain. A
Selenite deposited on the top of Mount Everest or even on Mont Blanc, could hardly be considered,
in strict language, to have arrived on Earth."

"Not to talk," added M'Nicholl, "of the comfort of the thing! When you land on a plain, there
you are. When you land on a peak or on a steep mountain side, where are you? Tumbling over
an embankment with the train going forty miles an hour, would be nothing to it."

"Therefore, Captain Barbican," cried the Frenchman, "as we should like to appear before the
Selenites in full skins, please land us in the snug though unromantic North. We shall have
time enough to break our necks in the South."

Barbican made no reply to his companions, because a new reflection had begun to trouble him,
to talk about which would have done no good. There was certainly something wrong. The Projectile
was evidently heading towards the northern hemisphere of the Moon. What did this prove? Clearly,
a deviation resulting from some cause. The bullet, lodged, aimed, and fired with the most careful
mathematical precision, had been calculated to reach the very centre of the Moon's disc. Clearly
it was not going to the centre now. What could have produced the deviation? This Barbican could
not tell; nor could he even determine its extent, having no points of sight by which to make
his observations. For the present he tried to console himself with the hope that the deviation
of the Projectile would be followed by no worse consequence than carrying them towards the
northern border of the Moon, where for several reasons it would be comparatively easier to
alight. Carefully avoiding, therefore, the use of any expression which might needlessly alarm
his companions, he continued to observe the Moon as carefully as he could, hoping every moment
to find some grounds for believing that the deviation from the centre was only a slight one.
He almost shuddered at the thought of what would be their situation, if the bullet, missing
its aim, should pass the Moon, and plunge into the interplanetary space beyond it.

As he continued to gaze, the Moon, instead of presenting the usual flatness of her disc, began
decidedly to show a surface somewhat convex. Had the Sun been shining on her obliquely, the
shadows would have certainly thrown the great mountains into strong relief. The eye could then
bury itself deep in the yawning chasms of the craters, and easily follow the cracks, streaks,
and ridges which stripe, flecker, and bar the immensity of her plains. But for the present
all relief was lost in the dazzling glare. The Captain could hardly distinguish even those
dark spots that impart to the full Moon some resemblance to the human face.

"Face!" cried Ardan: "well, a very fanciful eye may detect a face, though, for the sake of
Apollo's beauteous sister, I regret to say, a terribly pockmarked one!"

The travellers, now evidently approaching the end of their journey, observed the rapidly increasing
world above them with newer and greater curiosity every moment. Their fancies enkindled at
the sight of the new and strange scenes dimly presented to their view. In imagination they
climbed to the summit of this lofty peak. They let themselves down to the abyss of that yawning
crater. Here they imagined they saw vast seas hardly kept in their basins by a rarefied atmosphere;
there they thought they could trace mighty rivers bearing to vast oceans the tribute of the
snowy mountains. In the first promptings of their eager curiosity, they peered greedily into
her cavernous depths, and almost expected, amidst the deathlike hush of inaudible nature, to
surprise some sound from the mystic orb floating up there in eternal silence through a boundless
ocean of never ending vacuum.

This last day of their journey left their memories stored with thrilling recollections. They
took careful note of the slightest details. As they neared their destination, they felt themselves
invaded by a vague, undefined restlessness. But this restlessness would have given way to decided
uneasiness, if they had known at what a slow rate they were travelling. They would have surely
concluded that their present velocity would never be able to take them as far as the neutral
point, not to talk of passing it. The reason of such considerable retardation was, that by
this time the Projectile had reached such a great distance from the Earth that it had hardly
any weight. But even this weight, such as it was, was to be diminished still further, and finally,
to vanish altogether as soon as the bullet reached the neutral point, where the two attractions,
terrestrial and lunar, should counteract each other with new and surprising effects.

Notwithstanding the absorbing nature of his observations, Ardan never forgot to prepare breakfast
with his usual punctuality. It was eaten readily and relished heartily. Nothing could be more
exquisite than his calf's foot jelly liquefied and prepared by gas heat, except perhaps his
meat biscuits of preserved Texas beef and Southdown mutton. A bottle of Château Yquem and another
of Clos de Vougeot, both of superlative excellence in quality and flavor, crowned the repast.
Their vicinity to the Moon and their incessant glancing at her surface did not prevent the
travellers from touching each other's glasses merrily and often. Ardan took occasion to remark
that the lunar vineyards--if any existed--must be magnificent, considering the intense solar
heat they continually experienced. Not that he counted on them too confidently, for he told
his friends that to provide for the worst he had supplied himself with a few cases of the best
vintages of Médoc and the Côte d'Or, of which the bottles, then under discussion, might be
taken as very favorable specimens.

The Reiset and Regnault apparatus for purifying the air worked splendidly, and maintained the
atmosphere in a perfectly sanitary condition. Not an atom of carbonic acid could resist the
caustic potash; and as for the oxygen, according to M'Nicholl's expression, "it was A prime
number one!"

The small quantity of watery vapor enclosed in the Projectile did no more harm than serving
to temper the dryness of the air: many a splendid salon in New York, London, or Paris, and
many an auditorium, even of theatre, opera house or Academy of Music, could be considered its
inferior in what concerned its hygienic condition.

To keep it in perfect working order, the apparatus should be carefully attended to. This, Ardan
looked on as his own peculiar occupation. He was never tired regulating the tubes, trying the
taps, and testing the heat of the gas by the pyrometer. So far everything had worked satisfactorily,
and the travellers, following the example of their friend Marston on a previous occasion, began
to get so stout that their own mothers would not know them in another month, should their imprisonment
last so long. Ardan said they all looked so sleek and thriving that he was reminded forcibly
of a nice lot of pigs fattening in a pen for a country fair. But how long was this good fortune
of theirs going to last?

Whenever they took their eyes off the Moon, they could not help noticing that they were still
attended outside by the spectre of Satellite's corpse and by the other refuse of the Projectile.
An occasional melancholy howl also attested Diana's recognition of her companion's unhappy
fate. The travellers saw with surprise that these waifs still seemed perfectly motionless in
space, and kept their respective distances apart as mathematically as if they had been fastened
with nails to a stone wall.

"I tell you what, dear boys;" observed Ardan, commenting on this curious phenomenon; "if the
concussion had been a little too violent for one of us that night, his survivors would have
been seriously embarrassed in trying to get rid of his remains. With no earth to cover him
up, no sea to plunge him into, his corpse would never disappear from view, but would pursue
us day and night, grim and ghastly like an avenging ghost!"

"Ugh!" said the Captain, shuddering at the idea.

"But, by the bye, Barbican!" cried the Frenchman, dropping the subject with his usual abruptness;
"you have forgotten something else! Why didn't you bring a scaphander and an air pump? I could
then venture out of the Projectile as readily and as safely as the diver leaves his boat and
walks about on the bottom of the river! What fun to float in the midst of that mysterious ether!
to steep myself, aye, actually to revel in the pure rays of the glorious sun! I should have
ventured out on the very point of the Projectile, and there I should have danced and postured
and kicked and bobbed and capered in a style that Taglioni never dreamed of!"

"Shouldn't I like to see you!" cried the Captain grimly, smiling at the idea.

"You would not see him long!" observed Barbican quietly. "The air confined in his body, freed
from external pressure, would burst him like a shell, or like a balloon that suddenly rises
to too great a height in the air! A scaphander would have been a fatal gift. Don't regret its
absence, friend Michael; never forget this axiom: As long as we are floating in empty space,
the only spot where safety is possible is inside the Projectile!"

The words "possible" and "impossible" always grated on Ardan's ears. If he had been a lexicographer,
he would have rigidly excluded them from his dictionary, both as meaningless and useless. He
was preparing an answer for Barbican, when he was cut out by a sudden observation from M'Nicholl.

"See here, friends!" cried the Captain; "this going to the Moon is all very well, but how shall
we get back?"

His listeners looked at each other with a surprised and perplexed air. The question, though
a very natural one, now appeared to have presented itself to their consideration absolutely
for the first time.

"What do you mean by such a question, Captain?" asked Barbican in a grave judicial tone.

"Mac, my boy," said Ardan seriously, "don't it strike you as a little out of order to ask how
you are to return when you have not got there yet?"

"I don't ask the question with any idea of backing out," observed the Captain quietly; "as
a matter of purely scientific inquiry, I repeat my question: how are we to return?"

"I don't know," replied Barbican promptly.

"For my part," said Ardan; "if I had known how to get back, I should have never come at all!"

"Well! of all the answers!" said the Captain, lifting his hands and shaking his head.

"The best under the circumstances;" observed Barbican; "and I shall further observe that such
a question as yours at present is both useless and uncalled for. On some future occasion, when
we shall consider it advisable to return, the question will be in order, and we shall discuss
it with all the attention it deserves. Though the Columbiad is at Stony Hill, the Projectile
will still be in the Moon."

"Much we shall gain by that! A bullet without a gun!"

"The gun we can make and the powder too!" replied Barbican confidently. "Metal and sulphur
and charcoal and saltpetre are likely enough to be present in sufficient quantities beneath
the Moon's surface. Besides, to return is a problem of comparatively easy solution: we should
have to overcome the lunar attraction only--a slight matter--the rest of the business would
be readily done by gravity."

"Enough said on the subject!" exclaimed Ardan curtly; "how to get back is indefinitely postponed!
How to communicate with our friends on the Earth, is another matter, and, as it seems to me,
an extremely easy one."

"Let us hear the very easy means by which you propose to communicate with our friends on Earth,"
asked the Captain, with a sneer, for he was by this time a little out of humor.

"By means of bolides ejected from the lunar volcanoes," replied the Frenchman without an instant's
hesitation.

"Well said, friend Ardan," exclaimed Barbican. "I am quite disposed to acknowledge the feasibility
of your plan. Laplace has calculated that a force five times greater than that of an ordinary
cannon would be sufficient to send a bolide from the Moon to the Earth. Now there is no cannon
that can vie in force with even the smallest volcano."

"Hurrah!" cried Ardan, delighted at his success; "just imagine the pleasure of sending our
letters postage free! But--oh! what a splendid idea!--Dolts that we were for not thinking of
it sooner!"

"Let us have the splendid idea!" cried the Captain, with some of his old acrimony.

"Why didn't we fasten a wire to the Projectile?" asked Ardan, triumphantly, "It would have
enabled us to exchange telegrams with the Earth!"

"Ho! ho! ho!" roared the Captain, rapidly recovering his good humor; "decidedly the best joke
of the season! Ha! ha! ha! Of course you have calculated the weight of a wire 240 thousand
miles long?"

"No matter about its weight!" cried the Frenchman impetuously; "we should have laughed at its
weight! We could have tripled the charge of the Columbiad; we could have quadrupled it!--aye,
quintupled it, if necessary!" he added in tones evidently increasing in loudness and violence.

"Yes, friend Michael," observed Barbican; "but there is a slight and unfortunately a fatal
defect in your project. The Earth, by its rotation, would have wrapped our wire around herself,
like thread around a spool, and dragged us back almost with the speed of lightning!"

"By the Nine gods of Porsena!" cried Ardan, "something is wrong with my head to-day! My brain
is out of joint, and I am making as nice a mess of things as my friend Marston was ever capable
of! By the bye--talking of Marston--if we never return to the Earth, what is to prevent him
from following us to the Moon?"

"Nothing!" replied Barbican; "he is a faithful friend and a reliable comrade. Besides, what
is easier? Is not the Columbiad still at Stony Hill? Cannot gun-cotton be readily manufactured
on any occasion? Will not the Moon again pass through the zenith of Florida? Eighteen years
from now, will she not occupy exactly the same spot that she does to-day?"

"Certainly!" cried Ardan, with increasing enthusiasm, "Marston will come! and Elphinstone of
the torpedo! and the gallant Bloomsbury, and Billsby the brave, and all our friends of the
Baltimore Gun Club! And we shall receive them with all the honors! And then we shall establish
projectile trains between the Earth and the Moon! Hurrah for J.T. Marston!"

"Hurrah for Secretary Marston!" cried the Captain, with an enthusiasm almost equal to Ardan's.

"Hurrah for my dear friend Marston!" cried Barbican, hardly less excited than his comrades.

Our old acquaintance, Marston, of course could not have heard the joyous acclamations that
welcomed his name, but at that moment he certainly must have felt his ears most unaccountably
tingling. What was he doing at the time? He was rattling along the banks of the Kansas River,
as fast as an express train could take him, on the road to Long's Peak, where, by means of
the great Telescope, he expected to find some traces of the Projectile that contained his friends.
He never forgot them for a moment, but of course he little dreamed that his name at that very
time was exciting their vividest recollections and their warmest applause.

In fact, their recollections were rather too vivid, and their applause decidedly too warm.
Was not the animation that prevailed among the guests of the Projectile of a very unusual character,
and was it not becoming more and more violent every moment? Could the wine have caused it?
No; though not teetotallers, they never drank to excess. Could the Moon's proximity, shedding
her subtle, mysterious influence over their nervous systems, have stimulated them to a degree
that was threatening to border on frenzy? Their faces were as red as if they were standing
before a hot fire; their breathing was loud, and their lungs heaved like a smith's bellows;
their eyes blazed like burning coals; their voices sounded as loud and harsh as that of a stump
speaker trying to make himself heard by an inattentive or hostile crowd; their words popped
from their lips like corks from Champagne bottles; their gesticulating became wilder and in
fact more alarming--considering the little room left in the Projectile for muscular displays
of any kind.

But the most extraordinary part of the whole phenomenon was that neither of them, not even
Barbican, had the slightest consciousness of any strange or unusual ebullition of spirits either
on his own part or on that of the others.

"See here, gentlemen!" said the Captain in a quick imperious manner--the roughness of his old
life on the Mississippi would still break out--"See here, gentlemen! It seems I'm not to know
if we are to return from the Moon. Well!--Pass that for the present! But there is one thing
I must know!"

"Hear! hear the Captain!" cried Barbican, stamping with his foot, like an excited fencing master.
"There is one thing he must know!"

"I want to know what we're going to do when we get there!"

"He wants to know what we're going to do when we get there! A sensible question! Answer it, Ardan!"

"Answer it yourself, Barbican! You know more about the Moon than I do! You know more about
it than all the Nasmyths that ever lived!"

"I'm blessed if I know anything at all about it!" cried Barbican, with a joyous laugh. "Ha,
ha, ha! The first eastern shore Marylander or any other simpleton you meet in Baltimore, knows
as much about the Moon as I do! Why we're going there, I can't tell! What we're going to do
when we get there, can't tell either! Ardan knows all about it! He can tell! He's taking us there!"

"Certainly I can tell! should I have offered to take you there without a good object in view?"
cried Ardan, husky with continual roaring. "Answer me that!"

"No conundrums!" cried the Captain, in a voice sourer and rougher than ever; "tell us if you
can in plain English, what the demon we have come here for!"

"I'll tell you if I feel like it," cried Ardan, folding his arms with an aspect of great dignity;
"and I'll not tell you if I don't feel like it!"

"What's that?" cried Barbican. "You'll not give us an answer when we ask you a reasonable question?"

"Never!" cried Ardan, with great determination. "I'll never answer a question reasonable or
unreasonable, unless it is asked in a proper manner!"

"None of your French airs here!" exclaimed M'Nicholl, by this time almost completely out of
himself between anger and excitement. "I don't know where I am; I don't know where I'm going;
I don't know why I'm going; you know all about it, Ardan, or at least you think you do! Well
then, give me a plain answer to a plain question, or by the Thirty-eight States of our glorious
Union, I shall know what for!"

"Listen, Ardan!" cried Barbican, grappling with the Frenchman, and with some difficulty restraining
him from flying at M'Nicholl's throat; "You ought to tell him! It is only your duty! One day
you found us both in St. Helena woods, where we had no more idea of going to the Moon than
of sailing to the South Pole! There you twisted us both around your finger, and induced us
to follow you blindly on the most formidable journey ever undertaken by man! And now you refuse
to tell us what it was all for!"

"I don't refuse, dear old Barbican! To you, at least, I can't refuse anything!" cried Ardan,
seizing his friend's hands and wringing them violently. Then letting them go and suddenly starting
back, "you wish to know," he continued in resounding tones, "why we have followed out the grandest
idea that ever set a human brain on fire! Why we have undertaken a journey that for length,
danger, and novelty, for fascinating, soul-stirring and delirious sensations, for all that
can attract man's burning heart, and satisfy the intensest cravings of his intellect, far surpasses
the vividest realities of Dante's passionate dream! Well, I will tell you! It is to annex another
World to the New One! It is to take possession of the Moon in the name of the United States
of America! It is to add a thirty-ninth State to the glorious Union! It is to colonize the
lunar regions, to cultivate them, to people them, to transport to them some of our wonders
of art, science, and industry! It is to civilize the Selenites, unless they are more civilized
already than we are ourselves! It is to make them all good Republicans, if they are not so
already!"

"Provided, of course, that there are Selenites in existence!" sneered the Captain, now sourer
than ever, and in his unaccountable excitement doubly irritating.

"Who says there are no Selenites?" cried Ardan fiercely, with fists clenched and brows contracted.

"I do!" cried M'Nicholl stoutly; "I deny the existence of anything of the kind, and I denounce
every one that maintains any such whim as a visionary, if not a fool!"

Ardan's reply to this taunt was a desperate facer, which, however, Barbican managed to stop
while on its way towards the Captain's nose. M'Nicholl, seeing himself struck at, immediately
assumed such a posture of defence as showed him to be no novice at the business. A battle seemed
unavoidable; but even at this trying moment Barbican showed himself equal to the emergency.

"Stop, you crazy fellows! you ninnyhammers! you overgrown babies!" he exclaimed, seizing his
companions by the collar, and violently swinging them around with his vast strength until they
stood back to back; "what are you going to fight about? Suppose there are Lunarians in the
Moon! Is that a reason why there should be Lunatics in the Projectile! But, Ardan, why do you
insist on Lunarians? Are we so shiftless that we can't do without them when we get to the Moon?"

"I don't insist on them!" cried Ardan, who submitted to Barbican like a child. "Hang the Lunarians!
Certainly, we can do without them! What do I care for them? Down with them!"

"Yes, down with the Lunarians!" cried M'Nicholl as spitefully as if he had even the slightest
belief in their existence.

"We shall take possession of the Moon ourselves!" cried Ardan. "Lunarians or no Lunarians!"

"We three shall constitute a Republic!" cried M'Nicholl.

"I shall be the House!" cried Ardan.

"And I the Senate!" answered the Captain.

"And Barbican our first President!" shrieked the Frenchman.

"Our first and last!" roared M'Nicholl.

"No objections to a third term!" yelled Ardan.

"He's welcome to any number of terms he pleases!" vociferated M'Nicholl.

"Hurrah for President Barbican of the Lunatic--I mean of the Lunar Republic!" screamed Ardan.

"Long may he wave, and may his shadow never grow less!" shouted Captain M'Nicholl, his eyes
almost out of their sockets.

Then with voices reminding you of sand fiercely blown against the window panes, the President
and the Senate chanted the immortal Yankee Doodle, whilst the House delivered itself of the
Marseillaise, in a style which even the wildest Jacobins in Robespierre's day could hardly
have surpassed.

But long before either song was ended, all three broke out into a dance, wild, insensate, furious,
delirious, paroxysmatical. No Orphic festivals on Mount Cithaeron ever raged more wildly. No
Bacchic revels on Mount Parnassus were ever more corybantic. Diana, demented by the maddening
example, joined in the orgie, howling and barking frantically in her turn, and wildly jumping
as high as the ceiling of the Projectile. Then came new accessions to the infernal din. Wings
suddenly began to flutter, cocks to crow, hens to cluck; and five or six chickens, managing
to escape out of their coop, flew backwards and forwards blindly, with frightened screams,
dashing against each other and against the walls of the Projectile, and altogether getting
up as demoniacal a hullabaloo as could be made by ten thousand bats that you suddenly disturbed
in a cavern where they had slept through the winter.

Then the three companions, no longer able to withstand the overpowering influence of the mysterious
force that mastered them, intoxicated, more than drunk, burned by the air that scorched their
organs of respiration, dropped at last, and lay flat, motionless, senseless as dabs of clay,
on the floor of the Projectile.

CHAPTER VIII.

THE NEUTRAL POINT.

What had taken place? Whence proceeded this strange intoxication whose consequences might have
proved so disastrous? A little forgetfulness on Ardan's part had done the whole mischief, but
fortunately M'Nicholl was able to remedy it in time.

After a regular fainting spell several minutes long, the Captain was the first man to return
to consciousness and the full recovery of his intellectual faculties. His first feelings were
far from pleasant. His stomach gnawed him as if he had not eaten for a week, though he had
taken breakfast only a few hours before; his eyes were dim, his brain throbbing, and his limbs
shaking. In short, he presented every symptom usually seen in a man dying of starvation. Picking
himself up with much care and difficulty, he roared out to Ardan for something to eat. Seeing
that the Frenchman was unable or unwilling to respond, he concluded to help himself, by beginning
first of all to prepare a little tea. To do this, fire was necessary; so, to light his lamp,
he struck a match.

But what was his surprise at seeing the sulphur tip of the match blazing with a light so bright
and dazzling that his eyes could hardly bear it! Touching it to the gas burner, a stream of
light flashed forth equal in its intensity to the flame of an electric lamp. Then he understood
it all in an instant. The dazzling glare, his maddened brain, his gnawing stomach--all were
now clear as the noon-day Sun.

"The oxygen!" he cried, and, suddenly stooping down and examining the tap of the air apparatus,
he saw that it had been only half turned off. Consequently the air was gradually getting more
and more impregnated with this powerful gas, colorless, odorless, tasteless, infinitely precious,
but, unless when strongly diluted with nitrogen, capable of producing fatal disorders in the
human system. Ardan, startled by M'Nicholl's question about the means of returning from the
Moon, had turned the cock only half off.

The Captain instantly stopped the escape of the oxygen, but not one moment too soon. It had
completely saturated the atmosphere. A few minutes more and it would have killed the travellers,
not like carbonic acid, by smothering them, but by burning them up, as a strong draught burns
up the coals in a stove.

It took nearly an hour for the air to become pure enough to allow the lungs their natural play.
Slowly and by degrees, the travellers recovered from their intoxication; they had actually
to sleep off the fumes of the oxygen as a drunkard has to sleep off the effects of his brandy.
When Ardan learned that he was responsible for the whole trouble, do you think the information
disconcerted him? Not a bit of it. On the contrary, he was rather proud of having done something
startling, to break the monotony of the journey; and to put a little life, as he said, into
old Barbican and the grim Captain, so as to get a little fun out of such grave philosophers.

After laughing heartily at the comical figure cut by his two friends capering like crazy students
at the Closerie des Lilas, he went on moralizing on the incident:

"For my part, I'm not a bit sorry for having partaken of this fuddling gas. It gives me an
idea, dear boys. Would it not be worth some enterprising fellow's while to establish a sanatorium
provided with oxygen chambers, where people of a debilitated state of health could enjoy a
few hours of intensely active existence! There's money in it, as you Americans say. Just suppose
balls or parties given in halls where the air would be provided with an extra supply of this
enrapturing gas! Or, theatres where the atmosphere would be maintained in a highly oxygenated
condition. What passion, what fire in the actors! What enthusiasm in the spectators! And, carrying
the idea a little further, if, instead of an assembly or an audience, we should oxygenize towns,
cities, a whole country--what activity would be infused into the whole people! What new life
would electrify a stagnant community! Out of an old used-up nation we could perhaps make a
bran-new one, and, for my part, I know more than one state in old Europe where this oxygen
experiment might be attended with a decided advantage, or where, at all events, it could do
no harm!"

The Frenchman spoke so glibly and gesticulated so earnestly that M'Nicholl once more gravely
examined the stop-cock; but Barbican damped his enthusiasm by a single observation.

"Friend Michael," said he, "your new and interesting idea we shall discuss at a more favorable
opportunity. At present we want to know where all these cocks and hens have come from."

"These cocks and hens?"

"Yes."

Ardan threw a glance of comical bewilderment on half a dozen or so of splendid barn-yard fowls
that were now beginning to recover from the effects of the oxygen. For an instant he could
not utter a word; then, shrugging his shoulders, he muttered in a low voice:

"Catastrophe prematurely exploded!"

"What are you going to do with these chickens?" persisted Barbican.

"Acclimatize them in the Moon, by Jove! what else?" was the ready reply.

"Why conceal them then?"

"A hoax, a poor hoax, dear President, which proves a miserable failure! I intended to let them
loose on the Lunar Continent at the first favorable opportunity. I often had a good laugh to
myself, thinking of your astonishment and the Captain's at seeing a lot of American poultry
scratching for worms on a Lunar dunghill!"

"Ah! wag, jester, incorrigible farceur!" cried Barbican with a smile; "you want no nitrous
oxide to put a bee in your bonnet! He is always as bad as you and I were for a short time,
M'Nicholl, under the laughing gas! He's never had a sensible moment in his life!"

"I can't say the same of you," replied Ardan; "you had at least one sensible moment in all
your lives, and that was about an hour ago!"

Their incessant chattering did not prevent the friends from at once repairing the disorder
of the interior of the Projectile. Cocks and hens were put back in their cages. But while doing
so, the friends were astonished to find that the birds, though good sized creatures, and now
pretty fat and plump, hardly felt heavier in their hands than if they had been so many sparrows.
This drew their interested attention to a new phenomenon.

From the moment they had left the Earth, their own weight, and that of the Projectile and the
objects therein contained, had been undergoing a progressive diminution. They might never be
able to ascertain this fact with regard to the Projectile, but the moment was now rapidly approaching
when the loss of weight would become perfectly sensible, both regarding themselves and the
tools and instruments surrounding them. Of course, it is quite clear, that this decrease could
not be indicated by an ordinary scales, as the weight to balance the object would have lost
precisely as much as the object itself. But a spring balance, for instance, in which the tension
of the coil is independent of attraction, would have readily given the exact equivalent of
the loss.

Attraction or weight, according to Newton's well known law, acting in direct proportion to
the mass of the attracting body and in inverse proportion to the square of the distance, this
consequence clearly follows: Had the Earth been alone in space, or had the other heavenly bodies
been suddenly annihilated, the further from the Earth the Projectile would be, the less weight
it would have. However, it would never entirely lose its weight, as the terrestrial attraction
would have always made itself felt at no matter what distance. But as the Earth is not the
only celestial body possessing attraction, it is evident that there may be a point in space
where the respective attractions may be entirely annihilated by mutual counteraction. Of this
phenomenon the present instance was a case in point. In a short time, the Projectile and its
contents would for a few moments be absolutely and completely deprived of all weight whatsoever.

The path described by the Projectile was evidently a line from the Earth to the Moon averaging
somewhat less than 240,000 miles in length. According as the distance between the Projectile
and the Earth was increasing, the terrestrial attraction was diminishing in the ratio of the
square of the distance, and the lunar attraction was augmenting in the same proportion.

As before observed, the point was not now far off where, the two attractions counteracting
each other, the bullet would actually weigh nothing at all. If the masses of the Earth and
the Moon had been equal, this should evidently be found half way between the two bodies. But
by making allowance for the difference of the respective masses, it was easy to calculate that
this point would be situated at the 9/10 of the total distance, or, in round numbers, at something
less than 216,000 miles from the Earth.

At this point, a body that possessed no energy or principle of movement within itself, would
remain forever, relatively motionless, suspended like Mahomet's coffin, being equally attracted
by the two orbs and nothing impelling it in one direction rather than in the other.

Now the Projectile at this moment was nearing this point; if it reached it, what would be the
consequence?

To this question three answers presented themselves, all possible under the circumstances,
but very different in their results.

1. Suppose the Projectile to possess velocity enough to pass the neutral point. In such case,
it would undoubtedly proceed onward to the Moon, being drawn thither by Lunar attraction.

2. Suppose it lacked the requisite velocity for reaching the neutral point. In such a case
it would just as certainly fall back to the Earth, in obedience to the law of Terrestrial attraction.

3. Suppose it to be animated by just sufficient velocity to reach the neutral point, but not
to pass it. In that case, the Projectile would remain forever in the same spot, perfectly motionless
as far as regards the Earth and the Moon, though of course following them both in their annual
orbits round the Sun.

Such was now the state of things, which Barbican tried to explain to his friends, who, it need
hardly be said, listened to his remarks with the most intense interest. How were they to know,
they asked him, the precise instant at which the Projectile would reach the neutral point?
That would be an easy matter, he assured them. It would be at the very moment when both themselves
and all the other objects contained in the Projectile would be completely free from every operation
of the law of gravity; in other words, when everything would cease to have weight.

This gradual diminution of the action of gravity, the travellers had been for some time noticing,
but they had not yet witnessed its total cessation. But that very morning, about an hour before
noon, as the Captain was making some little experiment in Chemistry, he happened by accident
to overturn a glass full of water. What was his surprise at seeing that neither the glass nor
the water fell to the floor! Both remained suspended in the air almost completely motionless.

"The prettiest experiment I ever saw!" cried Ardan; "let us have more of it!"

And seizing the bottles, the arms, and the other objects in the Projectile, he arranged them
around each other in the air with some regard to symmetry and proportion. The different articles,
keeping strictly each in its own place, formed a very attractive group wonderful to behold.
Diana, placed in the apex of the pyramid, would remind you of those marvellous suspensions
in the air performed by Houdin, Herman, and a few other first class wizards. Only being kept
in her place without being hampered by invisible strings, the animal rather seemed to enjoy
the exhibition, though in all probability she was hardly conscious of any thing unusual in
her appearance.

Our travellers had been fully prepared for such a phenomenon, yet it struck them with as much
surprise as if they had never uttered a scientific reason to account for it. They saw that,
no longer subject to the ordinary laws of nature, they were now entering the realms of the
marvellous. They felt that their bodies were absolutely without weight. Their arms, fully extended,
no longer sought their sides. Their heads oscillated unsteadily on their shoulders. Their feet
no longer rested on the floor. In their efforts to hold themselves straight, they looked like
drunken men trying to maintain the perpendicular. We have all read stories of some men deprived
of the power of reflecting light and of others who could not cast a shadow. But here reality,
no fantastic story, showed you men who, through the counteraction of attractive forces, could
tell no difference between light substances and heavy substances, and who absolutely had no
weight whatever themselves!

"Let us take graceful attitudes!" cried Ardan, "and imagine we are playing tableaux! Let us,
for instance, form a grand historical group of the three great goddesses of the nineteenth
century. Barbican will represent Minerva or Science; the Captain, Bellona or War; while I,
as Madre Natura, the newly born goddess of Progress, floating gracefully over you both, extend
my hands so, fondly patronizing the one, but grandly ordering off the other, to the regions
of eternal night! More on your toe, Captain! Your right foot a little higher! Look at Barbican's
admirable pose! Now then, prepare to receive orders for a new tableau! Form group à la Jardin
Mabille! Presto! Change!"

In an instant, our travellers, changing attitudes, formed the new group with tolerable success.
Even Barbican, who had been to Paris in his youth, yielding for a moment to the humor of the
thing, acted the naif Anglais to the life. The Captain was frisky enough to remind you of a
middle-aged Frenchman from the provinces, on a hasty visit to the capital for a few days' fun.
Ardan was in raptures.

"Oh! if Raphael could only see us!" he exclaimed in a kind of ecstasy. "He would paint such
a picture as would throw all his other masterpieces in the shade!"

"Knock spots out of the best of them by fifty per cent!" cried the Captain, gesticulating well
enough à l'étudiant, but rather mixing his metaphors.

"He should be pretty quick in getting through the job," observed Barbican, the first as usual
to recover tranquillity. "As soon as the Projectile will have passed the neutral point--in
half an hour at longest--lunar attraction will draw us to the Moon."

"We shall have to crawl on the ceiling then like flies," said Ardan.

"Not at all," said the Captain; "the Projectile, having its centre of gravity very low, will
turn upside down by degrees."

"Upside down!" cried Ardan. "That will be a nice mess! everything higgledy-piggledy!"

"No danger, friend Michael," said M'Nicholl; "there shall be no disorder whatever; nothing
will quit its place; the movement of the Projectile will be effected by such slow degrees as
to be imperceptible."

"Yes," added Barbican, "as soon as we shall have passed the neutral point, the base of the
Projectile, its heaviest part, will swing around gradually until it faces the Moon. Before
this phenomenon, however, can take place, we must of course cross the line."

"Cross the line!" cried the Frenchman; "then let us imitate the sailors when they do the same
thing in the Atlantic Ocean! Splice the main brace!"

A slight effort carried him sailing over to the side of the Projectile. Opening a cupboard
and taking out a bottle and a few glasses, he placed them on a tray. Then setting the tray
itself in the air as on a table in front of his companions, he filled the glasses, passed them
around, and, in a lively speech interrupted with many a joyous hurrah, congratulated his companions
on their glorious achievement in being the first that ever crossed the lunar line.

This counteracting influence of the attractions lasted nearly an hour. By that time the travellers
could keep themselves on the floor without much effort. Barbican also made his companions remark
that the conical point of the Projectile diverged a little from the direct line to the Moon,
while by an inverse movement, as they could notice through the window of the floor, the base
was gradually turning away from the Earth. The Lunar attraction was evidently getting the better
of the Terrestrial. The fall towards the Moon, though still almost insensible, was certainly
beginning.

It could not be more than the eightieth part of an inch in the first second. But by degrees,
as the attractive force would increase, the fall would be more decided, and the Projectile,
overbalanced by its base, and presenting its cone to the Earth, would descend with accelerated
velocity to the Lunar surface. The object of their daring attempt would then be successfully
attained. No further obstacle, therefore, being likely to stand in the way of the complete
success of the enterprise, the Captain and the Frenchman cordially shook hands with Barbican,
all kept congratulating each other on their good fortune as long as the bottle lasted.

They could not talk enough about the wonderful phenomenon lately witnessed; the chief point,
the neutralization of the law of gravity, particularly, supplied them with an inexhaustible
subject. The Frenchman, as usual, as enthusiastic in his fancy, as he was fanciful in his enthusiasm,
got off some characteristic remarks.

"What a fine thing it would be, my boys," he exclaimed, "if on Earth we could be so fortunate
as we have been here, and get rid of that weight that keeps us down like lead, that rivets
us to it like an adamantine chain! Then should we prisoners become free! Adieu forever to all
weariness of arms or feet! At present, in order to fly over the surface of the Earth by the
simple exertion of our muscles or even to sustain ourselves in the air, we require a muscular
force fifty times greater than we possess; but if attraction did not exist, the simplest act
of the will, our slightest whim even, would be sufficient to transport us to whatever part
of space we wished to visit."

"Ardan, you had better invent something to kill attraction," observed M'Nicholl drily; "you
can do it if you try. Jackson and Morton have killed pain by sulphuric ether. Suppose you try
your hand on attraction!"

"It would be worth a trial!" cried Ardan, so full of his subject as not to notice the Captain's
jeering tone; "attraction once destroyed, there is an end forever to all loads, packs and burdens!
How the poor omnibus horses would rejoice! Adieu forever to all cranes, derricks, capstans,
jack-screws, and even hotel-elevators! We could dispense with all ladders, door steps, and
even stair-cases!"

"And with all houses too," interrupted Barbican; "or, at least, we should dispense with them
because we could not have them. If there was no weight, you could neither make a wall of bricks
nor cover your house with a roof. Even your hat would not stay on your head. The cars would
not stay on the railway nor the boats on the water. What do I say? We could not have any water.
Even the Ocean would leave its bed and float away into space. Nay, the atmosphere itself would
leave us, being detained in its place by terrestrial attraction and by nothing else."

"Too true, Mr. President," replied Ardan after a pause. "It's a fact. I acknowledge the corn,
as Marston says. But how you positive fellows do knock holes into our pretty little creations
of fancy!"

"Don't feel so bad about it, Ardan;" observed M'Nicholl; "though there may be no orb from which
gravity is excluded altogether, we shall soon land in one, where it is much less powerful than
on the Earth."

"You mean the Moon!"

"Yes, the Moon. Her mass being 1/89 of the Earth's, her attractive power should be in the same
proportion; that is, a boy 10 years old, whose weight on Earth is about 90 lbs., would weigh
on the Moon only about 1 pound, if nothing else were to be taken into consideration. But when
standing on the surface of the Moon, he is relatively 4 times nearer to the centre than when
he is standing on the surface of the Earth. His weight, therefore, having to be increased by
the square of the distance, must be sixteen times greater. Now 16 times 1/89 being less than
1/5, it is clear that my weight of 150 pounds will be cut down to nearly 30 as soon as we reach
the Moon's surface."

"And mine?" asked Ardan.

"Yours will hardly reach 25 pounds, I should think," was the reply.

"Shall my muscular strength diminish in the same proportion?" was the next question.

"On the contrary, it will be relatively so much the more increased that you can take a stride
15 feet in width as easily as you can now take one of ordinary length."

"We shall be all Samsons, then, in the Moon!" cried Ardan.

"Especially," replied M'Nicholl, "if the stature of the Selenites is in proportion to the mass
of their globe."

"If so, what should be their height?"

"A tall man would hardly be twelve inches in his boots!"

"They must be veritable Lilliputians then!" cried Ardan; "and we are all to be Gullivers! The
old myth of the Giants realized! Perhaps the Titans that played such famous parts in the prehistoric
period of our Earth, were adventurers like ourselves, casually arrived from some great planet!"

"Not from such planets as Mercury, Venus or Mars anyhow, friend Michael," observed Barbican.
"But the inhabitants of Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, or Neptune, if they bear the same proportion
to their planet that we do ours, must certainly be regular Brobdignagians."

"Let us keep severely away from all planets of the latter class then," said Ardan. "I never
liked to play the part of Lilliputian myself. But how about the Sun, Barbican? I always had
a hankering after the Sun!"

"The Sun's volume is about 1-1/3 million times greater than that of the Earth, but his density
being only about 1/4, the attraction on his surface is hardly 30 times greater than that of
our globe. Still, every proportion observed, the inhabitants of the Sun can't be much less
than 150 or 160 feet in height."

"Mille tonnerres!" cried Ardan, "I should be there like Ulysses among the Cyclops! I'll tell
you what it is, Barbican; if we ever decide on going to the Sun, we must provide ourselves
before hand with a few of your Rodman's Columbiads to frighten off the Solarians!"

"Your Columbiads would not do great execution there," observed M'Nicholl; "your bullet would
be hardly out of the barrel when it would drop to the surface like a heavy stone pushed off
the wall of a house."

"Oh! I like that!" laughed the incredulous Ardan.

"A little calculation, however, shows the Captain's remark to be perfectly just," said Barbican.
"Rodman's ordinary 15 inch Columbiad requires a charge of 100 pounds of mammoth powder to throw
a ball of 500 pounds weight. What could such a charge do with a ball weighing 30 times as much
or 15,000 pounds? Reflect on the enormous weight everything must have on the surface of the
Sun! Your hat, for instance, would weigh 20 or 30 pounds. Your cigar nearly a pound. In short,
your own weight on the Sun's surface would be so great, more than two tons, that if you ever
fell you should never be able to pick yourself up again!"

"Yes," added the Captain, "and whenever you wanted to eat or drink you should rig up a set
of powerful machinery to hoist the eatables and drinkables into your mouth."

"Enough of the Sun to-day, boys!" cried Ardan, shrugging his shoulders; "I don't contemplate
going there at present. Let us be satisfied with the Moon! There, at least, we shall be of
some account!"

CHAPTER IX.

A LITTLE OFF THE TRACK.

Barbican's mind was now completely at rest at least on one subject. The original force of the
discharge had been great enough to send the Projectile beyond the neutral line. Therefore,
there was no longer any danger of its falling back to the Earth. Therefore, there was no longer
any danger of its resting eternally motionless on the point of the counteracting attractions.
The next subject to engage his attention was the question: would the Projectile, under the
influence of lunar attraction, succeed in reaching its destination?

The only way in which it could succeed was by falling through a space of nearly 24,000 miles
and then striking the Moon's surface. A most terrific fall! Even taking the lunar attraction
to be only the one-sixth of the Earth's, such a fall was simply bewildering to think of. The
greatest height to which a balloon ever ascended was seven miles (Glaisher, 1862). Imagine
a fall from even that distance! Then imagine a fall from a height of four thousand miles!

Yet it was for a fall of this appalling kind on the surface of the Moon that the travellers
had now to prepare themselves. Instead of avoiding it, however, they eagerly desired it and
would be very much disappointed if they missed it. They had taken the best precautions they
could devise to guard against the terrific shock. These were mainly of two kinds: one was intended
to counteract as much as possible the fearful results to be expected the instant the Projectile
touched the lunar surface; the other, to retard the velocity of the fall itself, and thereby
to render it less violent.

The best arrangement of the first kind was certainly Barbican's water-contrivance for counteracting
the shock at starting, which has been so fully described in our former volume. (See Baltimore
Gun Club, page 353.) But unfortunately it could be no longer employed. Even if the partitions
were in working order, the water--two thousand pounds in weight had been required--was no longer
to be had. The little still left in the tanks was of no account for such a purpose. Besides,
they had not a single drop of the precious liquid to spare, for they were as yet anything but
sanguine regarding the facility of finding water on the Moon's surface.

Fortunately, however, as the gentle reader may remember, Barbican, besides using water to break
the concussion, had provided the movable disc with stout pillars containing a strong buffing
apparatus, intended to protect it from striking the bottom too violently after the destruction
of the different partitions. These buffers were still good, and, gravity being as yet almost
imperceptible, to put them once more in order and adjust them to the disc was not a difficult task.

The travellers set to work at once and soon accomplished it. The different pieces were put
together readily--a mere matter of bolts and screws, with plenty of tools to manage them. In
a short time the repaired disc rested on its steel buffers, like a table on its legs, or rather
like a sofa seat on its springs. The new arrangement was attended with at least one disadvantage.
The bottom light being covered up, a convenient view of the Moon's surface could not be had
as soon as they should begin to fall in a perpendicular descent. This, however, was only a
slight matter, as the side lights would permit the adventurers to enjoy quite as favorable
a view of the vast regions of the Moon as is afforded to balloon travellers when looking down
on the Earth over the sides of their car.

The disc arrangement was completed in about an hour, but it was not till past twelve o'clock
before things were restored to their usual order. Barbican then tried to make fresh observations
regarding the inclination of the Projectile; but to his very decided chagrin he found that
it had not yet turned over sufficiently to commence the perpendicular fall: on the contrary,
it even seemed to be following a curve rather parallel with that of the lunar disc. The Queen
of the Stars now glittered with a light more dazzling than ever, whilst from an opposite part
of the sky the glorious King of Day flooded her with his fires.

The situation began to look a little serious.

"Shall we ever get there!" asked the Captain.

"Let us be prepared for getting there, any how," was Barbican's dubious reply.

"You're a pretty pair of suspenders," said Ardan cheerily (he meant of course doubting hesitators,
but his fluent command of English sometimes led him into such solecisms). "Certainly we shall
get there--and perhaps a little sooner than will be good for us."

This reply sharply recalled Barbican to the task he had undertaken, and he now went to work
seriously, trying to combine arrangements to break the fall. The reader may perhaps remember
Ardan's reply to the Captain on the day of the famous meeting in Tampa.

"Your fall would be violent enough," the Captain had urged, "to splinter you like glass into
a thousand fragments."

"And what shall prevent me," had been Ardan's ready reply, "from breaking my fall by means
of counteracting rockets suitably disposed, and let off at the proper time?"

The practical utility of this idea had at once impressed Barbican. It could hardly be doubted
that powerful rockets, fastened on the outside to the bottom of the Projectile, could, when
discharged, considerably retard the velocity of the fall by their sturdy recoil. They could
burn in a vacuum by means of oxygen furnished by themselves, as powder burns in the chamber
of a gun, or as the volcanoes of the Moon continue their action regardless of the absence of
a lunar atmosphere.

Barbican had therefore provided himself with rockets enclosed in strong steel gun barrels,
grooved on the outside so that they could be screwed into corresponding holes already made
with much care in the bottom of the Projectile. They were just long enough, when flush with
the floor inside, to project outside by about six inches. They were twenty in number, and formed
two concentric circles around the dead light. Small holes in the disc gave admission to the
wires by which each of the rockets was to be discharged externally by electricity. The whole
effect was therefore to be confined to the outside. The mixtures having been already carefully
deposited in each barrel, nothing further need be done than to take away the metallic plugs
which had been screwed into the bottom of the Projectile, and replace them by the rockets,
every one of which was found to fit its grooved chamber with rigid exactness.

This evidently should have been all done before the disc had been finally laid on its springs.
But as this had to be lifted up again in order to reach the bottom of the Projectile, more
work was to be done than was strictly necessary. Though the labor was not very hard, considering
that gravity had as yet scarcely made itself felt, M'Nicholl and Ardan were not sorry to have
their little joke at Barbican's expense. The Frenchman began humming

    "Aliquandoque bonus dormitat Homerus,"

to a tune from Orphée aux Enfers, and the Captain said something about the Philadelphia Highway
Commissioners who pave a street one day, and tear it up the next to lay the gas pipes. But
his friends' humor was all lost on Barbican, who was so wrapped up in his work that he probably
never heard a word they said.

Towards three o'clock every preparation was made, every possible precaution taken, and now
our bold adventurers had nothing more to do than watch and wait.

The Projectile was certainly approaching the Moon. It had by this time turned over considerably
under the influence of attraction, but its own original motion still followed a decidedly oblique
direction. The consequence of these two forces might possibly be a tangent, line approaching
the edge of the Moon's disc. One thing was certain: the Projectile had not yet commenced to
fall directly towards her surface; its base, in which its centre of gravity lay, was still
turned away considerably from the perpendicular.

Barbican's countenance soon showed perplexity and even alarm. His Projectile was proving intractable
to the laws of gravitation. The unknown was opening out dimly before him, the great boundless
unknown of the starry plains. In his pride and confidence as a scientist, he had flattered
himself with having sounded the consequence of every possible hypothesis regarding the Projectile's
ultimate fate: the return to the Earth; the arrival at the Moon; and the motionless dead stop
at the neutral point. But here, a new and incomprehensible fourth hypothesis, big with the
terrors of the mystic infinite, rose up before his disturbed mind, like a grim and hollow ghost.
After a few seconds, however, he looked at it straight in the face without wincing. His companions
showed themselves just as firm. Whether it was science that emboldened Barbican, his phlegmatic
stoicism that propped up the Captain, or his enthusiastic vivacity that cheered the irrepressible
Ardan, I cannot exactly say. But certainly they were all soon talking over the matter as calmly
as you or I would discuss the advisability of taking a sail on the lake some beautiful evening
in July.

Their first remarks were decidedly peculiar and quite characteristic. Other men would have
asked themselves where the Projectile was taking them to. Do you think such a question ever
occurred to them? Not a bit of it. They simply began asking each other what could have been
the cause of this new and strange state of things.

"Off the track, it appears," observed Ardan. "How's that?"

"My opinion is," answered the Captain, "that the Projectile was not aimed true. Every possible
precaution had been taken, I am well aware, but we all know that an inch, a line, even the
tenth part of a hair's breadth wrong at the start would have sent us thousands of miles off
our course by this time."

"What have you to say to that, Barbican?" asked Ardan.

"I don't think there was any error at the start," was the confident reply; "not even so much
as a line! We took too many tests proving the absolute perpendicularity of the Columbiad, to
entertain the slightest doubt on that subject. Its direction towards the zenith being incontestable,
I don't see why we should not reach the Moon when she comes to the zenith."

"Perhaps we're behind time," suggested Ardan.

"What have you to say to that, Barbican?" asked the Captain. "You know the Cambridge men said
the journey had to be done in 97 hours 13 minutes and 20 seconds. That's as much as to say
that if we're not up to time we shall miss the Moon."

"Correct," said Barbican. "But we can't be behind time. We started, you know, on December 1st,
at 13 minutes and 20 seconds before 11 o'clock, and we were to arrive four days later at midnight
precisely. To-day is December 5th Gentlemen, please examine your watches. It is now half past
three in the afternoon. Eight hours and a half are sufficient to take us to our journey's end.
Why should we not arrive there?"

"How about being ahead of time?" asked the Captain.

"Just so!" said Ardan. "You know we have discovered the initial velocity to have been greater
than was expected."

"Not at all! not at all!" cried Barbican "A slight excess of velocity would have done no harm
whatever had the direction of the Projectile been perfectly true. No. There must have been
a digression. We must have been switched off!"

"Switched off? By what?" asked both his listeners in one breath.

"I can't tell," said Barbican curtly.

"Well!" said Ardan; "if Barbican can't tell, there is an end to all further talk on the subject.
We're switched off--that's enough for me. What has done it? I don't care. Where are we going
to? I don't care. What is the use of pestering our brains about it? We shall soon find out.
We are floating around in space, and we shall end by hauling up somewhere or other."

But in this indifference Barbican was far from participating. Not that he was not prepared
to meet the future with a bold and manly heart. It was his inability to answer his own question
that rendered him uneasy. What had switched them off? He would have given worlds for an answer,
but his brain sorely puzzled sought one in vain.

In the mean time, the Projectile continued to turn its side rather than its base towards the
Moon; that is, to assume a lateral rather than a direct movement, and this movement was fully
participated in by the multitude of the objects that had been thrown outside. Barbican could
even convince himself by sighting several points on the lunar surface, by this time hardly
more than fifteen or eighteen thousand miles distant, that the velocity of the Projectile instead
of accelerating was becoming more and more uniform. This was another proof that there was no
perpendicular fall. However, though the original impulsive force was still superior to the
Moon's attraction, the travellers were evidently approaching the lunar disc, and there was
every reason to hope that they would at last reach a point where, the lunar attraction at last
having the best of it, a decided fall should be the result.

The three friends, it need hardly be said, continued to make their observations with redoubled
interest, if redoubled interest were possible. But with all their care they could as yet determine
nothing regarding the topographical details of our radiant satellite. Her surface still reflected
the solar rays too dazzlingly to show the relief necessary for satisfactory observation.

Our travellers kept steadily on the watch looking out of the side lights, till eight o'clock
in the evening, by which time the Moon had grown so large in their eyes that she covered up
fully half the sky. At this time the Projectile itself must have looked like a streak of light,
reflecting, as it did, the Sun's brilliancy on the one side and the Moon's splendor on the other.

Barbican now took a careful observation and calculated that they could not be much more than
2,000 miles from the object of their journey. The velocity of the Projectile he calculated
to be about 650 feet per second or 450 miles an hour. They had therefore still plenty of time
to reach the Moon in about four hours. But though the bottom of the Projectile continued to
turn towards the lunar surface in obedience to the law of centripetal force, the centrifugal
force was still evidently strong enough to change the path which it followed into some kind
of curve, the exact nature of which would be exceedingly difficult to calculate.

The careful observations that Barbican continued to take did not however prevent him from endeavoring
to solve his difficult problem. What had switched them off? The hours passed on, but brought
no result. That the adventurers were approaching the Moon was evident, but it was just as evident
that they should never reach her. The nearest point the Projectile could ever possibly attain
would only be the result of two opposite forces, the attractive and the repulsive, which, as
was now clear, influenced its motion. Therefore, to land in the Moon was an utter impossibility,
and any such idea was to be given up at once and for ever.

"Quand même! What of it!" cried Ardan; after some moments' silence. "We're not to land in the
Moon! Well! let us do the next best thing--pass close enough to discover her secrets!"

But M'Nicholl could not accept the situation so coolly. On the contrary, he decidedly lost
his temper, as is occasionally the case with even phlegmatic men. He muttered an oath or two,
but in a voice hardly loud enough to reach Barbican's ear. At last, impatient of further restraint,
he burst out:

"Who the deuce cares for her secrets? To the hangman with her secrets! We started to land in
the Moon! That's what's got to be done! That I want or nothing! Confound the darned thing,
I say, whatever it was, whether on the Earth or off it, that shoved us off the track!"

"On the Earth or off it!" cried Barbican, striking his head suddenly; "now I see it! You're
right, Captain! Confound the bolide that we met the first night of our journey!"

"Hey?" cried Ardan.

"What do you mean?" asked M'Nicholl.

"I mean," replied Barbican, with a voice now perfectly calm, and in a tone of quiet conviction,
"that our deviation is due altogether to that wandering meteor."

"Why, it did not even graze us!" cried Ardan.

"No matter for that," replied Barbican. "Its mass, compared to ours, was enormous, and its
attraction was undoubtedly sufficiently great to influence our deviation."

"Hardly enough to be appreciable," urged M'Nicholl.

"Right again, Captain," observed Barbican. "But just remember an observation of your own made
this very afternoon: an inch, a line, even the tenth part of a hair's breadth wrong at the
beginning, in a journey of 240 thousand miles, would be sufficient to make us miss the Moon!"

CHAPTER X.

THE OBSERVERS OF THE MOON.

Barbican's happy conjecture had probably hit the nail on the head. The divergency even of a
second may amount to millions of miles if you only have your lines long enough. The Projectile
had certainly gone off its direct course; whatever the cause, the fact was undoubted. It was
a great pity. The daring attempt must end in a failure due altogether to a fortuitous accident,
against which no human foresight could have possibly taken precaution. Unless in case of the
occurrence of some other most improbable accident, reaching the Moon was evidently now impossible.
To failure, therefore, our travellers had to make up their minds.

But was nothing to be gained by the trip? Though missing actual contact with the Moon, might
they not pass near enough to solve several problems in physics and geology over which scientists
had been for a long time puzzling their brains in vain? Even this would be some compensation
for all their trouble, courage, and intelligence. As to what was to be their own fate, to what
doom were themselves to be reserved--they never appeared to think of such a thing. They knew
very well that in the midst of those infinite solitudes they should soon find themselves without
air. The slight supply that kept them from smothering could not possibly last more than five
or six days longer. Five or six days! What of that? Quand même! as Ardan often exclaimed. Five
or six days were centuries to our bold adventurers! At present every second was a year in events,
and infinitely too precious to be squandered away in mere preparations for possible contingencies.
The Moon could never be reached, but was it not possible that her surface could be carefully
observed? This they set themselves at once to find out.

The distance now separating them from our Satellite they estimated at about 400 miles. Therefore
relatively to their power of discovering the details of her disc, they were still farther off
from the Moon than some of our modern astronomers are to-day, when provided with their powerful
telescopes.

We know, for example, that Lord Rosse's great telescope at Parsonstown, possessing a power
of magnifying 6000 times, brings the Moon to within 40 miles of us; not to speak of Barbican's
great telescope on the summit of Long's Peak, by which the Moon, magnified 48,000 times, was
brought within 5 miles of the Earth, where it therefore could reveal with sufficient distinctness
every object above 40 feet in diameter.

Therefore our adventurers, though at such a comparatively small distance, could not make out
the topographical details of the Moon with any satisfaction by their unaided vision. The eye
indeed could easily enough catch the rugged outline of these vast depressions improperly called
"Seas," but it could do very little more. Its powers of adjustability seemed to fail before
the strange and bewildering scene. The prominence of the mountains vanished, not only through
the foreshortening, but also in the dazzling radiation produced by the direct reflection of
the solar rays. After a short time therefore, completely foiled by the blinding glare, the
eye turned itself unwillingly away, as if from a furnace of molten silver.

The spherical surface, however, had long since begun to reveal its convexity. The Moon was
gradually assuming the appearance of a gigantic egg with the smaller end turned towards the
Earth. In the earlier days of her formation, while still in a state of mobility, she had been
probably a perfect sphere in shape, but, under the influence of terrestrial gravity operating
for uncounted ages, she was drawn at last so much towards the centre of attraction as to resemble
somewhat a prolate spheriod. By becoming a satellite, she had lost the native perfect regularity
of her outline; her centre of gravity had shifted from her real centre; and as a result of
this arrangement, some scientists have drawn the conclusion that the Moon's air and water have
been attracted to that portion of her surface which is always invisible to the inhabitants
of the Earth.

The convexity of her outline, this bulging prominence of her surface, however, did not last
long. The travellers were getting too near to notice it. They were beginning to survey the
Moon as balloonists survey the Earth. The Projectile was now moving with great rapidity--with
nothing like its initial velocity, but still eight or nine times faster than an express train.
Its line of movement, however, being oblique instead of direct, was so deceptive as to induce
Ardan to flatter himself that they might still reach the lunar surface. He could never persuade
himself to believe that they should get so near their aim and still miss it. No; nothing might,
could, would or should induce him to believe it, he repeated again and again. But Barbican's
pitiless logic left him no reply.

"No, dear friend, no. We can reach the Moon only by a fall, and we don't fall. Centripetal
force keeps us at least for a while under the lunar influence, but centrifugal force drives
us away irresistibly."

These words were uttered in a tone that killed Ardan's last and fondest hope.

       *       *       *       *       *

The portion of the Moon they were now approaching was her northern hemisphere, found usually
in the lower part of lunar maps. The lens of a telescope, as is well known, gives only the
inverted image of the object; therefore, when an upright image is required, an additional glass
must be used. But as every additional glass is an additional obstruction to the light, the
object glass of a Lunar telescope is employed without a corrector; light is thereby saved,
and in viewing the Moon, as in viewing a map, it evidently makes very little difference whether
we see her inverted or not. Maps of the Moon therefore, being drawn from the image formed by
the telescope, show the north in the lower part, and vice versa. Of this kind was the Mappa
Selenographica, by Beer and Maedler, so often previously alluded to and now carefully consulted
by Barbican. The northern hemisphere, towards which they were now rapidly approaching, presented
a strong contrast with the southern, by its vast plains and great depressions, checkered here
and there by very remarkable isolated mountains.[A]

At midnight the Moon was full. This was the precise moment at which the travellers would have
landed had not that unlucky bolide drawn them off the track. The Moon was therefore strictly
up to time, arriving at the instant rigidly determined by the Cambridge Observatory. She occupied
the exact point, to a mathematical nicety, where our 28th parallel crossed the perigee. An
observer posted in the bottom of the Columbiad at Stony Hill, would have found himself at this
moment precisely under the Moon. The axis of the enormous gun, continued upwards vertically,
would have struck the orb of night exactly in her centre.

It is hardly necessary to tell our readers that, during this memorable night of the 5th and
6th of December, the travellers had no desire to close their eyes. Could they do so, even if
they had desired? No! All their faculties, thoughts, and desires, were concentrated in one
single word: "Look!" Representatives of the Earth, and of all humanity past and present, they
felt that it was with their eyes that the race of man contemplated the lunar regions and penetrated
the secrets of our satellite! A certain indescribable emotion therefore, combined with an undefined
sense of responsibility, held possession of their hearts, as they moved silently from window
to window.

Their observations, recorded by Barbican, were vigorously remade, revised, and re-determined,
by the others. To make them, they had telescopes which they now began to employ with great
advantage. To regulate and investigate them, they had the best maps of the day.

Whilst occupied in this silent work, they could not help throwing a short retrospective glance
on the former Observers of the Moon.

The first of these was Galileo. His slight telescope magnified only thirty times, still, in
the spots flecking the lunar surface, like the eyes checkering a peacock's tail, he was the
first to discover mountains and even to measure their heights. These, considering the difficulties
under which he labored, were wonderfully accurate, but unfortunately he made no map embodying
his observations.

A few years afterwards, Hevel of Dantzic, (1611-1688) a Polish astronomer--more generally known
as Hevelius, his works being all written in Latin--undertook to correct Galileo's measurements.
But as his method could be strictly accurate only twice a month--the periods of the first and
second quadratures--his rectifications could be hardly called successful.

Still it is to the labors of this eminent astronomer, carried on uninterruptedly for fifty
years in his own observatory, that we owe the first map of the Moon. It was published in 1647
under the name of Selenographia. He represented the circular mountains by open spots somewhat
round in shape, and by shaded figures he indicated the vast plains, or, as he called them,
the seas, that occupied so much of her surface. These he designated by names taken from our
Earth. His map shows you a Mount Sinai the midst of an Arabia, an Ætna in the centre of a Sicily,
Alps, Apennines, Carpathians, a Mediterranean, a Palus Mæolis, a Pontus Euxinus, and a Caspian
Sea. But these names seem to have been given capriciously and at random, for they never recall
any resemblance existing between themselves and their namesakes on our globe. In the wide open
spot, for instance, connected on the south with vast continents and terminating in a point,
it would be no easy matter to recognize the reversed image of the Indian Peninsula, the Bay
of Bengal, and Cochin China. Naturally, therefore, these names were nearly all soon dropped;
but another system of nomenclature, proposed by an astronomer better acquainted with the human
heart, met with a success that has lasted to the present day.

This was Father Riccioli, a Jesuit, and (1598-1671) a contemporary of Hevelius. In his Astronomia
Reformata, (1665), he published a rough and incorrect map of the Moon, compiled from observations
made by Grimaldi of Ferrara; but in designating the mountains, he named them after eminent
astronomers, and this idea of his has been carefully carried out by map makers of later times.

A third map of the Moon was published at Rome in 1666 by Dominico Cassini of Nice (1625-1712),
the famous discoverer of Saturn's satellites. Though somewhat incorrect regarding measurements,
it was superior to Riccioli's in execution, and for a long time it was considered a standard
work. Copies of this map are still to be found, but Cassini's original copper-plate, preserved
for a long time at the Imprimerie Royale in Paris, was at last sold to a brazier, by no less
a personage than the Director of the establishment himself, who, according to Arago, wanted
to get rid of what he considered useless lumber!

La Hire (1640-1718), professor of astronomy in the Collège de France, and an accomplished draughtsman,
drew a map of the Moon which was thirteen feet in diameter. This map could be seen long afterwards
in the library of St. Genevieve, Paris, but it was never engraved.

About 1760, Mayer, a famous German astronomer and the director of the observatory of Göttingen,
began the publication of a magnificent map of the Moon, drawn after lunar measurements all
rigorously verified by himself. Unfortunately his death in 1762 interrupted a work which would
have surpassed in accuracy every previous effort of the kind.

Next appears Schroeter of Erfurt (1745-1816), a fine observer (he first discovered the Lunar
Rills), but a poor draughtsman: his maps are therefore of little value. Lohrman of Dresden
published in 1838 an excellent map of the Moon, 15 inches in diameter, accompanied by descriptive
text and several charts of particular portions on a larger scale.

But this and all other maps were thrown completely into the shade by Beer and Maedler's famous
Mappa Selenographica, so often alluded to in the course of this work. This map, projected orthographically--that
is, one in which all the rays proceeding from the surface to the eye are supposed to be parallel
to each other--gives a reproduction of the lunar disc exactly as it appears. The representation
of the mountains and plains is therefore correct only in the central portion; elsewhere, north,
south, east, or west, the features, being foreshortened, are crowded together, and cannot be
compared in measurement with those in the centre. It is more than three feet square; for convenient
reference it is divided into four parts, each having a very full index; in short, this map
is in all respects a master piece of lunar cartography.[B]

After Beer and Maedler, we should allude to Julius Schmitt's (of Athens) excellent selenographic
reliefs: to Doctor Draper's, and to Father Secchi's successful application of photography to
lunar representation; to De La Rue's (of London) magnificent stereographs of the Moon, to be
had at every optician's; to the clear and correct map prepared by Lecouturier and Chapuis in
1860; to the many beautiful pictures of the Moon in various phases of illumination obtained
by the Messrs. Bond of Harvard University; to Rutherford's (of New York) unparalleled lunar
photographs; and finally to Nasmyth and Carpenter's wonderful work on the Moon, illustrated
by photographs of her surface in detail, prepared from models at which they had been laboring
for more than a quarter of the century.

Of all these maps, pictures, and projections, Barbican had provided himself with only two--Beer
and Maedler's in German, and Lecouturier and Chapuis' in French. These he considered quite
sufficient for all purposes, and certainly they considerably simplified his labors as an observer.

His best optical instruments were several excellent marine telescopes, manufactured especially
under his direction. Magnifying the object a hundred times, on the surface of the Earth they
would have brought the Moon to within a distance of somewhat less than 2400 miles. But at the
point to which our travellers had arrived towards three o'clock in the morning, and which could
hardly be more than 12 or 1300 miles from the Moon, these telescopes, ranging through a medium
disturbed by no atmosphere, easily brought the lunar surface to within less than 13 miles'
distance from the eyes of our adventurers.

Therefore they should now see objects in the Moon as clearly as people can see the opposite
bank of a river that is about 12 miles wide.

[Footnote A: In our Map of the Moon, prepared expressly for this work, we have so far improved
on Beer and Maedler as to give her surface as it appears to the naked eye: that is, the north
is in the north; only we must always remember that the west is and must be on the right hand.]

[Footnote B: In our Map the Mappa Selenographica is copied as closely and as fully as is necessary
for understanding the details of the story. For further information the reader is referred
to Nasmyth's late magnificent work: the MOON.]

CHAPTER XI.

FACT AND FANCY.

"Have you ever seen the Moon?" said a teacher ironically one day in class to one of his pupils.

"No, sir;" was the pert reply; "but I think I can safely say I've heard it spoken about."

Though saying what he considered a smart thing, the pupil was probably perfectly right. Like
the immense majority of his fellow beings, he had looked at the Moon, heard her talked of,
written poetry about her, but, in the strict sense of the term, he had probably never seen
her--that is--scanned her, examined her, surveyed her, inspected her, reconnoitred her--even
with an opera glass! Not one in a thousand, not one in ten thousand, has ever examined even
the map of our only Satellite. To guard our beloved and intelligent reader against this reproach,
we have prepared an excellent reduction of Beer and Maedler's Mappa, on which, for the better
understanding of what is to follow, we hope he will occasionally cast a gracious eye.

When you look at any map of the Moon, you are struck first of all with one peculiarity. Contrary
to the arrangement prevailing in Mars and on our Earth, the continents occupy principally the
southern hemisphere of the lunar orb. Then these continents are far from presenting such sharp
and regular outlines as distinguish the Indian Peninsula, Africa, and South America. On the
contrary, their coasts, angular, jagged, and deeply indented, abound in bays and peninsulas.
They remind you of the coast of Norway, or of the islands in the Sound, where the land seems
to be cut up into endless divisions. If navigation ever existed on the Moon's surface, it must
have been of a singularly difficult and dangerous nature, and we can scarcely say which of
the two should be more pitied--the sailors who had to steer through these dangerous and complicated
passes, or the map-makers who had to designate them on their charts.

You will also remark that the southern pole of the Moon is much more continental than the northern.
Around the latter, there exists only a slight fringe of lands separated from the other continents
by vast "seas." This word "seas"--a term employed by the first lunar map constructors--is still
retained to designate those vast depressions on the Moon's surface, once perhaps covered with
water, though they are now only enormous plains. In the south, the continents cover nearly
the whole hemisphere. It is therefore possible that the Selenites have planted their flag on
at least one of their poles, whereas the Parrys and Franklins of England, the Kanes and the
Wilkeses of America, the Dumont d'Urvilles and the Lamberts of France, have so far met with
obstacles completely insurmountable, while in search of those unknown points of our terrestrial
globe.

The islands--the next feature on the Moon's surface--are exceedingly numerous. Generally oblong
or circular in shape and almost as regular in outline as if drawn with a compass, they form
vast archipelagoes like the famous group lying between Greece and Asia Minor, which mythology
has made the scene of her earliest and most charming legends. As we gaze at them, the names
of Naxos, Tenedos, Milo, and Carpathos rise up before our mind's eye, and we begin looking
around for the Trojan fleet and Jason's Argo. This, at least, was Ardan's idea, and at first
his eyes would see nothing on the map but a Grecian archipelago. But his companions, sound
practical men, and therefore totally devoid of sentiment, were reminded by these rugged coasts
of the beetling cliffs of New Brunswick and Nova Scotia; so that, where the Frenchman saw the
tracks of ancient heroes, the Americans saw only commodious shipping points and favorable sites
for trading posts--all, of course, in the purest interest of lunar commerce and industry.

To end our hasty sketch of the continental portion of the Moon, we must say a few words regarding
her orthography or mountain systems. With a fair telescope you can distinguish very readily
her mountain chains, her isolated mountains, her circuses or ring formations, and her rills,
cracks and radiating streaks. The character of the whole lunar relief is comprised in these
divisions. It is a surface prodigiously reticulated, upheaved and depressed, apparently without
the slightest order or system. It is a vast Switzerland, an enormous Norway, where everything
is the result of direct plutonic action. This surface, so rugged, craggy and wrinkled, seems
to be the result of successive contractions of the crust, at an early period of the planet's
existence. The examination of the lunar disc is therefore highly favorable for the study of
the great geological phenomena of our own globe. As certain astronomers have remarked, the
Moon's surface, though older than the Earth's, has remained younger. That is, it has undergone
less change. No water has broken through its rugged elevations, filled up its scowling cavities,
and by incessant action tended continuously to the production of a general level. No atmosphere,
by its disintegrating, decomposing influence has softened off the rugged features of the plutonic
mountains. Volcanic action alone, unaffected by either aqueous or atmospheric forces, can here
be seen in all its glory. In other words the Moon looks now as our Earth did endless ages ago,
when "she was void and empty and when darkness sat upon the face of the deep;" eons of ages
ago, long before the tides of the ocean and the winds of the atmosphere had begun to strew
her rough surface with sand and clay, rock and coal, forest and meadow, gradually preparing
it, according to the laws of our beneficent Creator, to be at last the pleasant though the
temporary abode of Man!

Having wandered over vast continents, your eye is attracted by the "seas" of dimensions still
vaster. Not only their shape, situation, and look, remind us of our own oceans, but, again
like them, they occupy the greater part of the Moon's surface. The "seas," or, more correctly,
plains, excited our travellers' curiosity to a very high degree, and they set themselves at
once to examine their nature.

The astronomer who first gave names to those "seas" in all probability was a Frenchman. Hevelius,
however, respected them, even Riccioli did not disturb them, and so they have come down to
us. Ardan laughed heartily at the fancies which they called up, and said the whole thing reminded
him of one of those "maps of matrimony" that he had once seen or read of in the works of Scudéry
or Cyrano de Bergerac.

"However," he added, "I must say that this map has much more reality in it than could be found
in the sentimental maps of the 17th century. In fact, I have no difficulty whatever in calling
it the Map of Life! very neatly divided into two parts, the east and the west, the masculine
and the feminine. The women on the right, and the men on the left!"

At such observations, Ardan's companions only shrugged their shoulders. A map of the Moon in
their eyes was a map of the Moon, no more, no less; their romantic friend might view it as
he pleased. Nevertheless, their romantic friend was not altogether wrong. Judge a little for
yourselves.

What is the first "sea" you find in the hemisphere on the left? The Mare Imbrium or the Rainy
Sea, a fit emblem of our human life, beaten by many a pitiless storm. In a corresponding part
of the southern hemisphere you see Mare Nubium, the Cloudy Sea, in which our poor human reason
so often gets befogged. Close to this lies Mare Humorum, the Sea of Humors, where we sail about,
the sport of each fitful breeze, "everything by starts and nothing long." Around all, embracing
all, lies Oceanus Procellarum, the Ocean of Tempests, where, engaged in one continuous struggle
with the gusty whirlwinds, excited by our own passions or those of others, so few of us escape
shipwreck. And, when disgusted by the difficulties of life, its deceptions, its treacheries
and all the other miseries "that flesh is heir to," where do we too often fly to avoid them?
To the Sinus Iridium or the Sinus Roris, that is Rainbow Gulf and Dewy Gulf whose glittering
lights, alas! give forth no real illumination to guide our stumbling feet, whose sun-tipped
pinnacles have less substance than a dream, whose enchanting waters all evaporate before we
can lift a cup-full to our parched lips! Showers, storms, fogs, rainbows--is not the whole
mortal life of man comprised in these four words?

Now turn to the hemisphere on the right, the women's side, and you also discover "seas," more
numerous indeed, but of smaller dimensions and with gentler names, as more befitting the feminine
temperament. First comes Mare Serenitatis, the Sea of Serenity, so expressive of the calm,
tranquil soul of an innocent maiden. Near it is Lacus Somniorum, the Lake of Dreams, in which
she loves to gaze at her gilded and rosy future. In the southern division is seen Mare Nectaris,
the Sea of Nectar, over whose soft heaving billows she is gently wafted by Love's caressing
winds, "Youth on the prow and Pleasure at the helm." Not far off is Mare Fecunditatis, the
Sea of Fertility, in which she becomes the happy mother of rejoicing children. A little north
is Mare Crisium, the Sea of Crises where her life and happiness are sometimes exposed to sudden,
and unexpected dangers which fortunately, however, seldom end fatally. Far to the left, near
the men's side, is Mare Vaporum, the Sea of Vapors, into which, though it is rather small,
and full of sunken rocks, she sometimes allows herself to wander, moody, and pouting, and not
exactly knowing where she wants to go or what she wants to do. Between the two last expands
the great Mare Tranquillitatis, the Sea of Tranquillity, into whose quiet depths are at last
absorbed all her simulated passions, all her futile aspirations, all her unglutted desires,
and whose unruffled waters are gliding on forever in noiseless current towards Lacus Mortis,
the Lake of Death, whose misty shores

    "In ruthless, vast, and gloomy woods are girt."

So at least Ardan mused as he stooped over Beer and Maedler's map. Did not these strange successive
names somewhat justify his flights of fancy? Surely they had a wonderful variety of meaning.
Was it by accident or by forethought deep that the two hemispheres of the Moon had been thus
so strangely divided, yet, as man to woman, though divided still united, and thus forming even
in the cold regions of space a perfect image of our terrestrial existence? Who can say that
our romantic French friend was altogether wrong in thus explaining the astute fancies of the
old astronomers?

His companions, however, it need hardly be said, never saw the "seas" in that light. They looked
on them not with sentimental but with geographical eyes. They studied this new world and tried
to get it by heart, working at it like a school boy at his lessons. They began by measuring
its angles and diameters.

To their practical, common sense vision Mare Nubium, the Cloudy Sea, was an immense depression
of the surface, sprinkled here and there with a few circular mountains. Covering a great portion
of that part of the southern hemisphere which lies east of the centre, it occupied a space
of about 270 thousand square miles, its central point lying in 15° south latitude and 20° east
longitude. Northeast from this lay Oceanus Procellarum, the Ocean of Tempests, the most extensive
of all the plains on the lunar disc, embracing a surface of about half a million of square
miles, its centre being in 10° north and 45° east. From its bosom those wonderful mountains
Kepler and Aristarchus lifted their vast ramparts glittering with innumerable streaks radiating
in all directions.

To the north, in the direction of Mare Frigoris, extends Mare Imbrium, the Sea of Rains, its
central point in 35° north and 20° east. It is somewhat circular in shape, and it covers a
space of about 300 thousand square miles. South of Oceanus Procellarum and separated from Mare
Nubium by a goodly number of ring mountains, lies the little basin of Mare Humorum, the Sea
of Humors, containing only about 66 thousand square miles, its central point having a latitude
of 25° south and a longitude of 40° east.

On the shores of these great seas three "Gulfs" are easily found: Sinus Aestuum, the Gulf of
the Tides, northeast of the centre; Sinus Iridium, the Gulf of the Rainbows, northeast of the
Mare Imbrium; and Sinus Roris, the Dewy Gulf, a little further northeast. All seem to be small
plains enclosed between chains of lofty mountains.

The western hemisphere, dedicated to the ladies, according to Ardan, and therefore naturally
more capricious, was remarkable for "seas" of smaller dimensions, but much more numerous. These
were principally: Mare Serenitatis, the Sea of Serenity, 25° north and 20° west, comprising
a surface of about 130 thousand square miles; Mare Crisium, the Sea of Crises, a round, well
defined, dark depression towards the northwestern edge, 17° north 55° west, embracing a surface
of 60 thousand square miles, a regular Caspian Sea in fact, only that the plateau in which
it lies buried is surrounded by a girdle of much higher mountains. Then towards the equator,
with a latitude of 5° north and a longitude of 25° west, appears Mare Tranquillitatis, the
Sea of Tranquillity, occupying about 180 thousand square miles. This communicates on the south
with Mare Nectaris, the Sea of Nectar, embracing an extent of about 42 thousand square miles,
with a mean latitude of 15° south and a longitude of 35° west. Southwest from Mare Tranquillitatis,
lies Mare Fecunditatis, the Sea of Fertility, the greatest in this hemisphere, as it occupies
an extent of more than 300 thousand square miles, its latitude being 3° south and its longitude
50° west. For away to the north, on the borders of the Mare Frigoris, or Icy Sea, is seen the
small Mare Humboldtianum, or Humboldt Sea, with a surface of about 10 thousand square miles.
Corresponding to this in the southern hemisphere lies the Mare Australe, or South Sea, whose
surface, as it extends along the western rim, is rather difficult to calculate. Finally, right
in the centre of the lunar disc, where the equator intersects the first meridian, can be seen
Sinus Medii, the Central Gulf, the common property therefore of all the hemispheres, the northern
and southern, as well as of the eastern and western.

Into these great divisions the surface of our satellite resolved itself before the eyes of
Barbican and M'Nicholl. Adding up the various measurements, they found that the surface of
her visible hemisphere was about 7-1/2 millions of square miles, of which about the two thirds
comprised the volcanoes, the mountain chains, the rings, the islands--in short, the land portion
of the lunar surface; the other third comprised the "seas," the "lakes," the "marshes," the
"bays" or "gulfs," and the other divisions usually assigned to water.

To all this deeply interesting information, though the fruit of observation the closest, aided
and confirmed by calculation the profoundest, Ardan listened with the utmost indifference.
In fact, even his French politeness could not suppress two or three decided yawns, which of
course the mathematicians were too absorbed to notice.

In their enthusiasm they tried to make him understand that though the Moon is 13-1/2 times
smaller than our Earth, she can show more than 50 thousand craters, which astronomers have
already counted and designated by specific names.

"To conclude this portion of our investigation therefore," cried Barbican, clearing his throat,
and occupying Aldan's right ear,--"the Moon's surface is a honey combed, perforated, punctured--"

"A fistulous, a rugose, salebrous,--" cut in the Captain, close on the left.

--"And highly cribriform superficies--" cried Barbican.

--"A sieve, a riddle, a colander--" shouted the Captain.

--"A skimming dish, a buckwheat cake, a lump of green cheese--" went on Barbican--.

--In fact, there is no knowing how far they would have proceeded with their designations, comparisons,
and scientific expressions, had not Ardan, driven to extremities by Barbican's last profanity,
suddenly jumped up, broken away from his companions, and clapped a forcible extinguisher on
their eloquence by putting his hands on their lips and keeping them there awhile. Then striking
a grand attitude, he looked towards the Moon and burst out in accents of thrilling indignation:

"Pardon, O beautiful Diana of the Ephesians! Pardon, O Phoebe, thou pearl-faced goddess of
night beloved of Greece! O Isis, thou sympathetic queen of Nile-washed cities! O Astarte, thou
favorite deity of the Syrian hills! O Artemis, thou symbolical daughter of Jupiter and Latona,
that is of light and darkness! O brilliant sister of the radiant Apollo! enshrined in the enchanting
strains of Virgil and Homer, which I only half learned at college, and therefore unfortunately
forget just now! Otherwise what pleasure I should have had in hurling them at the heads of
Barbican, M'Nicholl, and every other barbarous iconoclast of the nineteenth century!--"

Here he stopped short, for two reasons: first he was out of breath; secondly, he saw that the
irrepressible scientists had been too busy making observations of their own to hear a single
word of what he had uttered, and were probably totally unconscious that he had spoken at all.
In a few seconds his breath came back in full blast, but the idea of talking when only deaf
men were listening was so disconcerting as to leave him actually unable to get off another
syllable.

CHAPTER XII.

A BIRD'S EYE VIEW OF THE LUNAR MOUNTAINS.

I am rather inclined to believe myself that not one word of Ardan's rhapsody had been ever
heard by Barbican or M'Nicholl. Long before he had spoken his last words, they had once more
become mute as statues, and now were both eagerly watching, pencil in hand, spyglass to eye,
the northern lunar hemisphere towards which they were rapidly but indirectly approaching. They
had fully made up their minds by this time that they were leaving far behind them the central
point which they would have probably reached half an hour ago if they had not been shunted
off their course by that inopportune bolide.

About half past twelve o'clock, Barbican broke the dead silence by saying that after a careful
calculation they were now only about 875 miles from the Moon's surface, a distance two hundred
miles less in length than the lunar radius, and which was still to be diminished as they advanced
further north. They were at that moment ten degrees north of the equator, almost directly over
the ridge lying between the Mare Serenitatis and the Mare Tranquillitatis. From this latitude
all the way up to the north pole the travellers enjoyed a most satisfactory view of the Moon
in all directions and under the most favorable conditions. By means of their spyglasses, magnifying
a hundred times, they cut down this distance of 875 miles to about 9. The great telescope of
the Rocky Mountains, by its enormous magnifying power of 48,000, brought the Moon, it is true,
within a distance of 5 miles, or nearly twice as near; but this advantage of nearness was considerably
more than counterbalanced by a want of clearness, resulting from the haziness and refractiveness
of the terrestrial atmosphere, not to mention those fatal defects in the reflector that the
art of man has not yet succeeded in remedying. Accordingly, our travellers, armed with excellent
telescopes--of just power enough to be no injury to clearness,--and posted on unequalled vantage
ground, began already to distinguish certain details that had probably never been noticed before
by terrestrial observers. Even Ardan, by this time quite recovered from his fit of sentiment
and probably infected a little by the scientific enthusiasm of his companions, began to observe
and note and observe and note, alternately, with all the sangfroid of a veteran astronomer.

"Friends," said Barbican, again interrupting a silence that had lasted perhaps ten minutes,
"whither we are going I can't say; if we shall ever revisit the Earth, I can't tell. Still,
it is our duty so to act in all respects as if these labors of ours were one day to be of service
to our fellow-creatures. Let us keep our souls free from every distraction. We are now astronomers.
We see now what no mortal eye has ever gazed on before. This Projectile is simply a work room
of the great Cambridge Observatory lifted into space. Let us take observations!"

With these words, he set to work with a renewed ardor, in which his companions fully participated.
The consequence was that they soon had several of the outline maps covered with the best sketches
they could make of the Moon's various aspects thus presented under such favorable circumstances.
They could now remark not only that they were passing the tenth degree of north latitude, but
that the Projectile followed almost directly the twentieth degree of east longitude.

"One thing always puzzled me when examining maps of the Moon," observed Ardan, "and I can't
say that I see it yet as clearly as if I had thought over the matter. It is this. I could understand,
when looking through a lens at an object, why we get only its reversed image--a simple law
of optics explains that. Therefore, in a map of the Moon, as the bottom means the north and
the top the south, why does not the right mean the west and the left the east? I suppose I
could have made this out by a little thought, but thinking, that is reflection, not being my
forte, it is the last thing I ever care to do. Barbican, throw me a word or two on the subject."

"I can see what troubles you," answered Barbican, "but I can also see that one moment's reflection
would have put an end to your perplexity. On ordinary maps of the Earth's surface when the
north is the top, the right hand must be the east, the left hand the west, and so on. That
is simply because we look down from above. And such a map seen through a lens will appear reversed
in all respects. But in looking at the Moon, that is up from down, we change our position so
far that our right hand points west and our left east. Consequently, in our reversed map, though
the north becomes south, the right remains east, and--"

"Enough said! I see it at a glance! Thank you, Barbican. Why did not they make you a professor
of astronomy? Your hint will save me a world of trouble."[C]

Aided by the Mappa Selenographica, the travellers could easily recognize the different portions
of the Moon over which they were now moving. An occasional glance at our reduction of this
map, given as a frontispiece, will enable the gentle reader to follow the travellers on the
line in which they moved and to understand the remarks and observations in which they occasionally
indulged.

"Where are we now?" asked Ardan.

"Over the northern shores of the Mare Nubium," replied Barbican. "But we are still too far
off to see with any certainty what they are like. What is the Mare itself? A sea, according
to the early astronomers? a plain of solid sand, according to later authority? or an immense
forest, according to De la Rue of London, so far the Moon's most successful photographer? This
gentleman's authority, Ardan, would have given you decided support in your famous dispute with
the Captain at the meeting near Tampa, for he says very decidedly that the Moon has an atmosphere,
very low to be sure but very dense. This, however, we must find out for ourselves; and in the
meantime let us affirm nothing until we have good grounds for positive assertion."

Mare Nubium, though not very clearly outlined on the maps, is easily recognized by lying directly
east of the regions about the centre. It would appear as if this vast plain were sprinkled
with immense lava blocks shot forth from the great volcanoes on the right, Ptolemaeus, Alphonse,
Alpetragius and Arzachel. But the Projectile advanced so rapidly that these mountains soon
disappeared, and the travellers were not long before they could distinguish the great peaks
that closed the "Sea" on its northern boundary. Here a radiating mountain showed a summit so
dazzling with the reflection of the solar rays that Ardan could not help crying out:

"It looks like one of the carbon points of an electric light projected on a screen! What do
you call it, Barbican?"

"Copernicus," replied the President. "Let us examine old Copernicus!"

This grand crater is deservedly considered one of the greatest of the lunar wonders. It lifts
its giant ramparts to upwards of 12,000 feet above the level of the lunar surface. Being quite
visible from the Earth and well situated for observation, it is a favorite object for astronomical
study; this is particularly the case during the phase existing between Last Quarter and the
New Moon, when its vast shadows, projected boldly from the east towards the west, allow its
prodigious dimensions to be measured.

After Tycho, which is situated in the southern hemisphere, Copernicus forms the most important
radiating mountain in the lunar disc. It looms up, single and isolated, like a gigantic light-house,
on the peninsula separating Mare Nubium from Oceanus Procellarum on one side and from Mare
Imbrium on the other; thus illuminating with its splendid radiation three "Seas" at a time.
The wonderful complexity of its bright streaks diverging on all sides from its centre presented
a scene alike splendid and unique. These streaks, the travellers thought, could be traced further
north than in any other direction: they fancied they could detect them even in the Mare Imbrium,
but this of course might be owing to the point from which they made their observations. At
one o'clock in the morning, the Projectile, flying through space, was exactly over this magnificent
mountain.

In spite of the brilliant sunlight that was blazing around them, the travellers could easily
recognize the peculiar features of Copernicus. It belongs to those ring mountains of the first
class called Circuses. Like Kepler and Aristarchus, who rule over Oceanus Procellarum, Copernicus,
when viewed through our telescopes, sometimes glistens so brightly through the ashy light of
the Moon that it has been frequently taken for a volcano in full activity. Whatever it may
have been once, however, it is certainly nothing more now than, like all the other mountains
on the visible side of the Moon, an extinct volcano, only with a crater of such exceeding grandeur
and sublimity as to throw utterly into the shade everything like it on our Earth. The crater
of Etna is at most little more than a mile across. The crater of Copernicus has a diameter
of at least 50 miles. Within it, the travellers could easily discover by their glasses an immense
number of terraced ridges, probably landslips, alternating with stratifications resulting from
successive eruptions. Here and there, but particularly in the southern side, they caught glimpses
of shadows of such intense blackness, projected across the plateau and lying there like pitch
spots, that they could not tell them from yawning chasms of incalculable depth. Outside the
crater the shadows were almost as deep, whilst on the plains all around, particularly in the
west, so many small craters could be detected that the eye in vain attempted to count them.

"Many circular mountains of this kind," observed Barbican, "can be seen on the lunar surface,
but Copernicus, though not one of the greatest, is one of the most remarkable on account of
those diverging streaks of bright light that you see radiating from its summit. By looking
steadily into its crater, you can see more cones than mortal eye ever lit on before. They are
so numerous as to render the interior plateau quite rugged, and were formerly so many openings
giving vent to fire and volcanic matter. A curious and very common arrangement of this internal
plateau of lunar craters is its lying at a lower level than the external plains, quite the
contrary to a terrestrial crater, which generally has its bottom much higher than the level
of the surrounding country. It follows therefore that the deep lying curve of the bottom of
these ring mountains would give a sphere with a diameter somewhat smaller than the Moon's."

"What can be the cause of this peculiarity?" asked M'Nicholl.

"I can't tell;" answered Barbican, "but, as a conjecture, I should say that it is probably
to the comparatively smaller area of the Moon and the more violent character of her volcanic
action that the extremely rugged character of her surface is mainly due."

"Why, it's the Campi Phlegraei or the Fire Fields of Naples over again!" cried Ardan suddenly.
"There's Monte Barbaro, there's the Solfatara, there is the crater of Astroni, and there is
the Monte Nuovo, as plain as the hand on my body!"

"The great resemblance between the region you speak of and the general surface of the Moon
has been often remarked;" observed Barbican, "but it is even still more striking in the neighborhood
of Theophilus on the borders of Mare Nectaris."

"That's Mare Nectaris, the gray spot over there on the southwest, isn't it?" asked M'Nicholl;
"is there any likelihood of our getting a better view of it?"

"Not the slightest," answered Barbican, "unless we go round the Moon and return this way, like
a satellite describing its orbit."

By this time they had arrived at a point vertical to the mountain centre. Copernicus's vast
ramparts formed a perfect circle or rather a pair of concentric circles. All around the mountain
extended a dark grayish plain of savage aspect, on which the peak shadows projected themselves
in sharp relief. In the gloomy bottom of the crater, whose dimensions are vast enough to swallow
Mont Blanc body and bones, could be distinguished a magnificent group of cones, at least half
a mile in height and glittering like piles of crystal. Towards the north several breaches could
be seen in the ramparts, due probably to a caving in of immense masses accumulated on the summit
of the precipitous walls.

As already observed, the surrounding plains were dotted with numberless craters mostly of small
dimensions, except Gay Lussac on the north, whose crater was about 12 miles in diameter. Towards
the southwest and the immediate east, the plain appeared to be very flat, no protuberance,
no prominence of any kind lifting itself above the general dead level. Towards the north, on
the contrary, as far as where the peninsula jutted on Oceanus Procellarum, the plain looked
like a sea of lava wildly lashed for a while by a furious hurricane and then, when its waves
and breakers and driving ridges were at their wildest, suddenly frozen into solidity. Over
this rugged, rumpled, wrinkled surface and in all directions, ran the wonderful streaks whose
radiating point appeared to be the summit of Copernicus. Many of them appeared to be ten miles
wide and hundreds of miles in length.

The travellers disputed for some time on the origin of these strange radii, but could hardly
be said to have arrived at any conclusion more satisfactory than that already reached by some
terrestrial observers.

To M'Nicholl's question:

"Why can't these streaks be simply prolonged mountain crests reflecting the sun's rays more
vividly by their superior altitude and comparative smoothness?"

Barbican readily replied:

"These streaks can't be mountain crests, because, if they were, under certain conditions of
solar illumination they should project shadows--a thing which they have never been known to
do under any circumstances whatever. In fact, it is only during the period of the full Moon
that these streaks are seen at all; as soon as the sun's rays become oblique, they disappear
altogether--a proof that their appearance is due altogether to peculiar advantages in their
surface for the reflection of light."

"Dear boys, will you allow me to give my little guess on the subject?" asked Ardan.

His companions were profuse in expressing their desire to hear it.

"Well then," he resumed, "seeing that these bright streaks invariably start from a certain
point to radiate in all directions, why not suppose them to be streams of lava issuing from
the crater and flowing down the mountain side until they cooled?"

"Such a supposition or something like it has been put forth by Herschel," replied Barbican;
"but your own sense will convince you that it is quite untenable when you consider that lava,
however hot and liquid it may be at the commencement of its journey, cannot flow on for hundreds
of miles, up hills, across ravines, and over plains, all the time in streams of almost exactly
equal width."

"That theory of yours holds no more water than mine, Ardan," observed M'Nicholl.

"Correct, Captain," replied the Frenchman; "Barbican has a trick of knocking the bottom out
of every weaker vessel. But let us hear what he has to say on the subject himself. What is
your theory. Barbican?"

"My theory," said Barbican, "is pretty much the same as that lately presented by an English
astronomer, Nasmyth, who has devoted much study and reflection to lunar matters. Of course,
I only formulate my theory, I don't affirm it. These streaks are cracks, made in the Moon's
surface by cooling or by shrinkage, through which volcanic matter has been forced up by internal
pressure. The sinking ice of a frozen lake, when meeting with some sharp pointed rock, cracks
in a radiating manner: every one of its fissures then admits the water, which immediately spreads
laterally over the ice pretty much as the lava spreads itself over the lunar surface. This
theory accounts for the radiating nature of the streaks, their great and nearly equal thickness,
their immense length, their inability to cast a shadow, and their invisibility at any time
except at or near the Full Moon. Still it is nothing but a theory, and I don't deny that serious
objections may be brought against it."

"Do you know, dear boys," cried Ardan, led off as usual by the slightest fancy, "do you know
what I am thinking of when I look down on the great rugged plains spread out beneath us?"

"I can't say, I'm sure," replied Barbican, somewhat piqued at the little attention he had secured
for his theory.

"Well, what are you thinking of?" asked M'Nicholl.

"Spillikins!" answered Ardan triumphantly.

"Spillikins?" cried his companions, somewhat surprised.

"Yes, Spillikins! These rocks, these blocks, these peaks, these streaks, these cones, these
cracks, these ramparts, these escarpments,--what are they but a set of spillikins, though I
acknowledge on a grand scale? I wish I had a little hook to pull them one by one!"

"Oh, do be serious, Ardan!" cried Barbican, a little impatiently.

"Certainly," replied Ardan. "Let us be serious, Captain, since seriousness best befits the
subject in hand. What do you think of another comparison? Does not this plain look like an
immense battle field piled with the bleaching bones of myriads who had slaughtered each other
to a man at the bidding of some mighty Caesar? What do you think of that lofty comparison, hey?"

"It is quite on a par with the other," muttered Barbican.

"He's hard to please, Captain," continued Ardan, "but let us try him again! Does not this plain
look like--?"

"My worthy friend," interrupted Barbican, quietly, but in a tone to discourage further discussion,
"what you think the plain looks like is of very slight import, as long as you know no more
than a child what it really is!"

"Bravo, Barbican! well put!" cried the irrepressible Frenchman. "Shall I ever realize the absurdity
of my entering into an argument with a scientist!"

But this time the Projectile, though advancing northward with a pretty uniform velocity, had
neither gained nor lost in its nearness to the lunar disc. Each moment altering the character
of the fleeting landscape beneath them, the travellers, as may well be imagined, never thought
of taking an instant's repose. At about half past one, looking to their right on the west,
they saw the summits of another mountain; Barbican, consulting his map, recognized Eratosthenes.

This was a ring mountain, about 33 miles in diameter, having, like Copernicus, a crater of
immense profundity containing central cones. Whilst they were directing their glasses towards
its gloomy depths, Barbican mentioned to his friends Kepler's strange idea regarding the formation
of these ring mountains. "They must have been constructed," he said, "by mortal hands."

"With what object?" asked the Captain.

"A very natural one," answered Barbican. "The Selenites must have undertaken the immense labor
of digging these enormous pits at places of refuge in which they could protect themselves against
the fierce solar rays that beat against them for 15 days in succession!"

"Not a bad idea, that of the Selenites!" exclaimed Ardan.

"An absurd idea!" cried M'Nicholl. "But probably Kepler never knew the real dimensions of these
craters. Barbican knows the trouble and time required to dig a well in Stony Hill only nine
hundred feet deep. To dig out a single lunar crater would take hundreds and hundreds of years,
and even then they should be giants who would attempt it!"

"Why so?" asked Ardan. "In the Moon, where gravity is six times less than on the Earth, the
labor of the Selenites can't be compared with that of men like us."

"But suppose a Selenite to be six times smaller than a man like us!" urged M'Nicholl.

"And suppose a Selenite never had an existence at all!" interposed Barbican with his usual
success in putting an end to the argument. "But never mind the Selenites now. Observe Eratosthenes
as long as you have the opportunity."

"Which will not be very long," said M'Nicholl. "He is already sinking out of view too far to
the right to be carefully observed."

"What are those peaks beyond him?" asked Ardan.

"The Apennines," answered Barbican; "and those on the left are the Carpathians."

"I have seen very few mountain chains or ranges in the Moon," remarked Ardan, after some minutes'
observation.

"Mountains chains are not numerous in the Moon," replied Barbican, "and in that respect her
oreographic system presents a decided contrast with that of the Earth. With us the ranges are
many, the craters few; in the Moon the ranges are few and the craters innumerable."

Barbican might have spoken of another curious feature regarding the mountain ranges: namely,
that they are chiefly confined to the northern hemisphere, where the craters are fewest and
the "seas" the most extensive.

For the benefit of those interested, and to be done at once with this part of the subject,
we give in the following little table a list of the chief lunar mountain chains, with their
latitude, and respective heights in English feet.

              Name.          Degrees of Latitude.      Height.

            { Altai Mountains     17° to 28              13,000ft.
Southern    { Cordilleras         10  to 20              12,000
Hemisphere. { Pyrenees             8  to 18              12,000
            { Riphean              5  to 10               2,600

            { Haemus              10  to 20               6,300
            { Carpathian          15  to 19               6,000
            { Apennines           14  to 27              18,000
Northern    { Taurus              25  to 34               8,500
Hemisphere. { Hercynian           17  to 29               3,400
            { Caucasus            33  to 40              17,000
            { Alps                42  to 30              10,000

Of these different chains, the most important is that of the Apennines, about 450 miles long,
a length, however, far inferior to that of many of the great mountain ranges of our globe.
They skirt the western shores of the Mare Imbrium, over which they rise in immense cliffs,
18 or 20 thousand feet in height, steep as a wall and casting over the plain intensely black
shadows at least 90 miles long. Of Mt. Huyghens, the highest in the group, the travellers were
just barely able to distinguish the sharp angular summit in the far west. To the east, however,
the Carpathians, extending from the 18th to 30th degrees of east longitude, lay directly under
their eyes and could be examined in all the peculiarities of their distribution.

Barbican proposed a hypothesis regarding the formation of those mountains, which his companions
thought at least as good as any other. Looking carefully over the Carpathians and catching
occasional glimpses of semi-circular formations and half domes, he concluded that the chain
must have formerly been a succession of vast craters. Then had come some mighty internal discharge,
or rather the subsidence to which Mare Imbrium is due, for it immediately broke off or swallowed
up one half of those mountains, leaving the other half steep as a wall on one side and sloping
gently on the other to the level of the surrounding plains. The Carpathians were therefore
pretty nearly in the same condition as the crater mountains Ptolemy, Alpetragius and Arzachel
would find themselves in, if some terrible cataclysm, by tearing away their eastern ramparts,
had turned them into a chain of mountains whose towering cliffs would nod threateningly over
the western shores of Mare Nubium. The mean height of the Carpathians is about 6,000 feet,
the altitude of certain points in the Pyrenees such as the Port of Pineda, or Roland's Breach,
in the shadow of Mont Perdu. The northern slopes of the Carpathians sink rapidly towards the
shores of the vast Mare Imbrium.

Towards two o'clock in the morning, Barbican calculated the Projectile to be on the 20th northern
parallel, and therefore almost immediately over the little ring mountain called Pytheas, about
4600 feet in height. The distance of the travellers from the Moon at this point could not be
more than about 750 miles, reduced to about 7 by means of their excellent telescopes.

Mare Imbrium, the Sea of Rains here revealed itself in all its vastness to the eyes of the
travellers, though it must be acknowledged that the immense depression so called, did not afford
them a very clear idea regarding its exact boundaries. Right ahead of them rose Lambert about
a mile in height; and further on, more to the left, in the direction of Oceanus Procellarum,
Euler revealed itself by its glittering radiations. This mountain, of about the same height
as Lambert, had been the object of very interesting calculations on the part of Schroeter of
Erfurt. This keen observer, desirous of inquiring into the probable origin of the lunar mountains,
had proposed to himself the following question: Does the volume of the crater appear to be
equal to that of the surrounding ramparts? His calculations showing him that this was generally
the case, he naturally concluded that these ramparts must therefore have been the product of
a single eruption, for successive eruptions of volcanic matter would have disturbed this correlation.
Euler alone, he found, to be an exception to this general law, as the volume of its crater
appeared to be twice as great as that of the mass surrounding it. It must therefore have been
formed by several eruptions in succession, but in that case what had become of the ejected matter?

Theories of this nature and all manner of scientific questions were, of course, perfectly permissible
to terrestrial astronomers laboring under the disadvantage of imperfect instruments. But Barbican
could not think of wasting his time in any speculation of the kind, and now, seeing that his
Projectile perceptibly approached the lunar disc, though he despaired of ever reaching it,
he was more sanguine than ever of being soon able to discover positively and unquestionably
some of the secrets of its formation.

[Footnote C: We must again remind our readers that, in our map, though every thing is set down
as it appears to the eye not as it is reversed by the telescope, still, for the reason made
so clear by Barbican, the right hand side must be the west and the left the east.]

CHAPTER XIII.

LUNAR LANDSCAPES

At half past two in the morning of December 6th, the travellers crossed the 30th northern parallel,
at a distance from the lunar surface of 625 miles, reduced to about 6 by their spy-glasses.
Barbican could not yet see the least probability of their landing at any point of the disc.
The velocity of the Projectile was decidedly slow, but for that reason extremely puzzling.
Barbican could not account for it. At such a proximity to the Moon, the velocity, one would
think, should be very great indeed to be able to counteract the lunar attraction. Why did it
not fall? Barbican could not tell; his companions were equally in the dark. Ardan said he gave
it up. Besides they had no time to spend in investigating it. The lunar panorama was unrolling
all its splendors beneath them, and they could not bear to lose one of its slightest details.

The lunar disc being brought within a distance of about six miles by the spy-glasses, it is
a fair question to ask, what could an aeronaut at such an elevation from our Earth discover
on its surface? At present that question can hardly be answered, the most remarkable balloon
ascensions never having passed an altitude of five miles under circumstances favorable for
observers. Here, however, is an account, carefully transcribed from notes taken on the spot,
of what Barbican and his companions did see from their peculiar post of observation.

Varieties of color, in the first place, appeared here and there upon the disc. Selenographers
are not quite agreed as to the nature of these colors. Not that such colors are without variety
or too faint to be easily distinguished. Schmidt of Athens even says that if our oceans on
earth were all evaporated, an observer in the Moon would hardly find the seas and continents
of our globe even so well outlined as those of the Moon are to the eye of a terrestrial observer.
According to him, the shade of color distinguishing those vast plains known as "seas" is a
dark gray dashed with green and brown,--a color presented also by a few of the great craters.

This opinion of Schmidt's, shared by Beer and Maedler, Barbican's observations now convinced
him to be far better founded than that of certain astronomers who admit of no color at all
being visible on the Moon's surface but gray. In certain spots the greenish tint was quite
decided, particularly in Mare Serenitatis and Mare Humorum, the very localities where Schmidt
had most noticed it. Barbican also remarked that several large craters, of the class that had
no interior cones, reflected a kind of bluish tinge, somewhat like that given forth by a freshly
polished steel plate. These tints, he now saw enough to convince him, proceeded really from
the lunar surface, and were not due, as certain astronomers asserted, either to the imperfections
of the spy-glasses, or to the interference of the terrestrial atmosphere. His singular opportunity
for correct observation allowed him to entertain no doubt whatever on the subject. Hampered
by no atmosphere, he was free from all liability to optical illusion. Satisfied therefore as
to the reality of these tints, he considered such knowledge a positive gain to science. But
that greenish tint--to what was it due? To a dense tropical vegetation maintained by a low
atmosphere, a mile or so in thickness? Possibly. But this was another question that could not
be answered at present.

Further on he could detect here and there traces of a decidedly ruddy tint. Such a shade he
knew had been already detected in the Palus Somnii, near Mare Crisium, and in the circular
area of Lichtenberg, near the Hercynian Mountains, on the eastern edge of the Moon. To what
cause was this tint to be attributed? To the actual color of the surface itself? Or to that
of the lava covering it here and there? Or to the color resulting from the mixture of other
colors seen at a distance too great to allow of their being distinguished separately? Impossible
to tell.

Barbican and his companions succeeded no better at a new problem that soon engaged their undivided
attention. It deserves some detail.

Having passed Lambert, being just over Timocharis, all were attentively gazing at the magnificent
crater of Archimedes with a diameter of 52 miles across and ramparts more than 5000 feet in
height, when Ardan startled his companions by suddenly exclaiming:

"Hello! Cultivated fields as I am a living man!"

"What do you mean by your cultivated fields?" asked M'Nicholl sourly, wiping his glasses and
shrugging his shoulders.

"Certainly cultivated fields!" replied Ardan. "Don't you see the furrows? They're certainly
plain enough. They are white too from glistening in the sun, but they are quite different from
the radiating streaks of Copernicus. Why, their sides are perfectly parallel!"

"Where are those furrows?" asked M'Nicholl, putting his glasses to his eye and adjusting the focus.

"You can see them in all directions," answered Ardan; "but two are particularly visible: one
running north from Archimedes, the other south towards the Apennines."

M'Nicholl's face, as he gazed, gradually assumed a grin which soon developed into a snicker,
if not a positive laugh, as he observed to Ardan:

"Your Selenites must be Brobdignagians, their oxen Leviathans, and their ploughs bigger than
Marston's famous cannon, if these are furrows!"

"How's that, Barbican?" asked Ardan doubtfully, but unwilling to submit to M'Nicholl.

"They're not furrows, dear friend," said Barbican, "and can't be, either, simply on account
of their immense size. They are what the German astronomers called Rillen; the French, rainures,
and the English, grooves, canals, clefts, cracks, chasms, or fissures."

"You have a good stock of names for them anyhow," observed Ardan, "if that does any good."

"The number of names given them," answered Barbican, "shows how little is really known about
them. They have been observed in all the level portion of the Moon's surface. Small as they
appear to us, a little calculation must convince you that they are in some places hundreds
of miles in length, a mile in width and probably in many points several miles in depth. Their
width and depth, however, vary, though their sides, so far as observed, are always rigorously
parallel. Let us take a good look at them."

Putting the glass to his eye, Barbican examined the clefts for some time with close attention.
He saw that their banks were sharp edged and extremely steep. In many places they were of such
geometrical regularity that he readily excused Gruithuysen's idea of deeming them to be gigantic
earthworks thrown up by the Selenite engineers. Some of them were as straight as if laid out
with a line, others were curved a little here and there, though still maintaining the strict
parallelism of their sides. These crossed each other; those entered craters and came out at
the other side. Here, they furrowed annular plateaus, such as Posidonius or Petavius. There,
they wrinkled whole seas, for instance, Mare Serenitatis.

These curious peculiarities of the lunar surface had interested the astronomic mind to a very
high degree at their first discovery, and have proved to be very perplexing problems ever since.
The first observers do not seem to have noticed them. Neither Hevelius, nor Cassini, nor La
Hire, nor Herschel, makes a single remark regarding their nature.

It was Schroeter, in 1789, who called the attention of scientists to them for the first time.
He had only 11 to show, but Lohrmann soon recorded 75 more. Pastorff, Gruithuysen, and particularly
Beer and Maedler were still more successful, but Julius Schmidt, the famous astronomer of Athens,
has raised their number up to 425, and has even published their names in a catalogue. But counting
them is one thing, determining their nature is another. They are not fortifications, certainly:
and cannot be ancient beds of dried up rivers, for two very good and sufficient reasons: first,
water, even under the most favorable circumstances on the Moon's surface, could have never
ploughed up such vast channels; secondly, these chasms often traverse lofty craters through
and through, like an immense railroad cutting.

At these details, Ardan's imagination became unusually excited and of course it was not without
some result. It even happened that he hit on an idea that had already suggested itself to Schmidt
of Athens.

"Why not consider them," he asked, "to be the simple phenomena of vegetation?"

"What do you mean?" asked Barbican.

"Rows of sugar cane?" suggested M'Nicholl with a snicker.

"Not exactly, my worthy Captain," answered Ardan quietly, "though you were perhaps nearer to
the mark than you expected. I don't mean exactly rows of sugar cane, but I do mean vast avenues
of trees--poplars, for instance--planted regularly on each side of a great high road."

"Still harping on vegetation!" said the Captain. "Ardan, what a splendid historian was spoiled
in you! The less you know about your facts, the readier you are to account for them."

"Ma foi," said Ardan simply, "I do only what the greatest of your scientific men do--that is,
guess. There is this difference however between us--I call my guesses, guesses, mere conjecture;--they
dignify theirs as profound theories or as astounding discoveries!"

"Often the case, friend Ardan, too often the case," said Barbican.

"In the question under consideration, however," continued the Frenchman, "my conjecture has
this advantage over some others: it explains why these rills appear and seem to disappear at
regular intervals."

"Let us hear the explanation," said the Captain.

"They become invisible when the trees lose their leaves, and they reappear when they resume them."

"His explanation is not without ingenuity," observed Barbican to M'Nicholl, "but, my dear friend,"
turning to Ardan, "it is hardly admissible."

"Probably not," said Ardan, "but why not?"

"Because as the Sun is nearly always vertical to the lunar equator, the Moon can have no change
of seasons worth mentioning; therefore her vegetation can present none of the phenomena that
you speak of."

This was perfectly true. The slight obliquity of the Moon's axis, only 1-1/2°, keeps the Sun
in the same altitude the whole year around. In the equatorial regions he is always vertical,
and in the polar he is never higher than the horizon. Therefore, there can be no change of
seasons; according to the latitude, it is a perpetual winter, spring, summer, or autumn the
whole year round. This state of things is almost precisely similar to that which prevails in
Jupiter, who also stands nearly upright in his orbit, the inclination of his axis being only
about 3°.

But how to account for the grooves? A very hard nut to crack. They must certainly be a later
formation than the craters and the rings, for they are often found breaking right through the
circular ramparts. Probably the latest of all lunar features, the results of the last geological
epochs, they are due altogether to expansion or shrinkage acting on a large scale and brought
about by the great forces of nature, operating after a manner altogether unknown on our earth.
Such at least was Barbican's idea.

"My friends," he quietly observed, "without meaning to put forward any pretentious claims to
originality, but by simply turning to account some advantages that have never before befallen
contemplative mortal eye, why not construct a little hypothesis of our own regarding the nature
of these grooves and the causes that gave them birth? Look at that great chasm just below us,
somewhat to the right. It is at least fifty or sixty miles long and runs along the base of
the Apennines in a line almost perfectly straight. Does not its parallelism with the mountain
chain suggest a causative relation? See that other mighty rill, at least a hundred and fifty
miles long, starting directly north of it and pursuing so true a course that it cleaves Archimedes
almost cleanly into two. The nearer it lies to the mountain, as you perceive, the greater its
width; as it recedes in either direction it grows narrower. Does not everything point out to
one great cause of their origin? They are simple crevasses, like those so often noticed on
Alpine glaciers, only that these tremendous cracks in the surface are produced by the shrinkage
of the crust consequent on cooling. Can we point out some analogies to this on the Earth? Certainly.
The defile of the Jordan, terminating in the awful depression of the Dead Sea, no doubt occurs
to you on the moment. But the Yosemite Valley, as I saw it ten years ago, is an apter comparison.
There I stood on the brink of a tremendous chasm with perpendicular walls, a mile in width,
a mile in depth and eight miles in length. Judge if I was astounded! But how should we feel
it, when travelling on the lunar surface, we should suddenly find ourselves on the brink of
a yawning chasm two miles wide, fifty miles long, and so fathomless in sheer vertical depth
as to leave its black profundities absolutely invisible in spite of the dazzling sunlight!"

"I feel my flesh already crawling even in the anticipation!" cried Ardan.

"I shan't regret it much if we never get to the Moon," growled M'Nicholl; "I never hankered
after it anyhow!"

By this time the Projectile had reached the fortieth degree of lunar latitude, and could hardly
be further than five hundred miles from the surface, a distance reduced to about 5 miles by
the travellers' glasses. Away to their left appeared Helicon, a ring mountain about 1600 feet
high; and still further to the left the eye could catch a glimpse of the cliffs enclosing a
semi-elliptical portion of Mare Imbrium, called the Sinus Iridium, or Bay of the Rainbows.

In order to allow astronomers to make complete observations on the lunar surface, the terrestrial
atmosphere should possess a transparency seventy times greater than its present power of transmission.
But in the void through which the Projectile was now floating, no fluid whatever interposed
between the eye of the observer and the object observed. Besides, the travellers now found
themselves at a distance that had never before been reached by the most powerful telescopes,
including even Lord Rosse's and the great instrument on the Rocky Mountains. Barbican was therefore
in a condition singularly favorable to resolve the great question concerning the Moon's inhabitableness.
Nevertheless, the solution still escaped him. He could discover nothing around him but a dreary
waste of immense plains, and towards the north, beneath him, bare mountains of the aridest
character.

Not the slightest vestige of man's work could be detected over the vast expanse. Not the slightest
sign of a ruin spoke of his ever having been there. Nothing betrayed the slightest trace of
the development of animal life, even in an inferior degree. No movement. Not the least glimpse
of vegetation. Of the three great kingdoms that hold dominion on the surface of the globe,
the mineral, the vegetable and the animal, one alone was represented on the lunar sphere: the
mineral, the whole mineral, and nothing but the mineral.

"Why!" exclaimed Ardan, with a disconcerted look, after a long and searching examination, "I
can't find anybody. Everything is as motionless as a street in Pompeii at 4 o'clock in the
morning!"

"Good comparison, friend Ardan;" observed M'Nicholl. "Lava, slag, volcanic eminences, vitreous
matter glistening like ice, piles of scoria, pitch black shadows, dazzling streaks, like rivers
of light breaking over jagged rocks--these are now beneath my eye--these alone I can detect--not
a man--not an animal--not a tree. The great American Desert is a land of milk and honey in
comparison with the joyless orb over which we are now moving. However, even yet we can predicate
nothing positive. The atmosphere may have taken refuge in the depths of the chasms, in the
interior of the craters, or even on the opposite side of the Moon, for all we know!"

"Still we must remember," observed Barbican, "that even the sharpest eye cannot detect a man
at a distance greater than four miles and a-half, and our glasses have not yet brought us nearer
than five."

"Which means to say," observed Ardan, "that though we can't see the Selenites, they can see
our Projectile!"

But matters had not improved much when, towards four o'clock in the morning, the travellers
found themselves on the 50th parallel, and at a distance of only about 375 miles from the lunar
surface. Still no trace of the least movement, or even of the lowest form of life.

"What peaked mountain is that which we have just passed on our right?" asked Ardan. "It is
quite remarkable, standing as it does in almost solitary grandeur in the barren plain."

"That is Pico," answered Barbican. "It is at least 8000 feet high and is well known to terrestrial
astronomers as well by its peculiar shadow as on account of its comparative isolation. See
the collection of perfectly formed little craters nestling around its base."

"Barbican," asked M'Nicholl suddenly, "what peak is that which lies almost directly south of
Pico? I see it plainly, but I can't find it on my map."

"I have remarked that pyramidal peak myself," replied Barbican; "but I can assure you that
so far it has received no name as yet, although it is likely enough to have been distinguished
by the terrestrial astronomers. It can't be less than 4000 feet in height."

"I propose we called it Barbican!" cried Ardan enthusiastically.

"Agreed!" answered M'Nicholl, "unless we can find a higher one."

"We must be before-hand with Schmidt of Athens!" exclaimed Ardan. "He will leave nothing unnamed
that his telescope can catch a glimpse of."

"Passed unanimously!" cried M'Nicholl.

"And officially recorded!" added the Frenchman, making the proper entry on his map.

"Salve, Mt. Barbican!" then cried both gentlemen, rising and taking off their hats respectfully
to the distant peak.

"Look to the west!" interrupted Barbican, watching, as usual, while his companions were talking,
and probably perfectly unconscious of what they were saying; "directly to the west! Now tell
me what you see!"

"I see a vast valley!" answered M'Nicholl.

"Straight as an arrow!" added Ardan.

"Running through lofty mountains!" cried M'Nicholl.

"Cut through with a pair of saws and scooped out with a chisel!" cried Ardan.

"See the shadows of those peaks!" cried M'Nicholl catching fire at the sight. "Black, long,
and sharp as if cast by cathedral spires!"

"Oh! ye crags and peaks!" burst forth Ardan; "how I should like to catch even a faint echo
of the chorus you could chant, if a wild storm roared over your beetling summits! The pine
forests of Norwegian mountains howling in midwinter would not be an accordeon in comparison!"

"Wonderful instance of subsidence on a grand scale!" exclaimed the Captain, hastily relapsing
into science.

"Not at all!" cried the Frenchman, still true to his colors; "no subsidence there! A comet
simply came too close and left its mark as it flew past."

"Fanciful exclamations, dear friends," observed Barbican; "but I'm not surprised at your excitement.
Yonder is the famous Valley of the Alps, a standing enigma to all selenographers. How it could
have been formed, no one can tell. Even wilder guesses than yours, Ardan, have been hazarded
on the subject. All we can state positively at present regarding this wonderful formation,
is what I have just recorded in my note-book: the Valley of the Alps is about 5 mile wide and
70 or 80 long: it is remarkably flat and free from debris, though the mountains on each side
rise like walls to the height of at least 10,000 feet.--Over the whole surface of our Earth
I know of no natural phenomenon that can be at all compared with it."

"Another wonder almost in front of us!" cried Ardan. "I see a vast lake black as pitch and
round as a crater; it is surrounded by such lofty mountains that their shadows reach clear
across, rendering the interior quite invisible!"

"That's Plato;" said M'Nicholl; "I know it well; it's the darkest spot on the Moon: many a
night I gazed at it from my little observatory in Broad Street, Philadelphia."

"Right, Captain," said Barbican; "the crater Plato, is, indeed, generally considered the blackest
spot on the Moon, but I am inclined to consider the spots Grimaldi and Riccioli on the extreme
eastern edge to be somewhat darker. If you take my glass, Ardan, which is of somewhat greater
power than yours, you will distinctly see the bottom of the crater. The reflective power of
its plateau probably proceeds from the exceedingly great number of small craters that you can
detect there."

"I think I see something like them now," said Ardan. "But I am sorry the Projectile's course
will not give us a vertical view."

"Can't be helped!" said Barbican; "we must go where it takes us. The day may come when man
can steer the projectile or the balloon in which he is shut up, in any way he pleases, but
that day has not come yet!"

Towards five in the morning, the northern limit of Mare Imbrium was finally passed, and Mare
Frigoris spread its frost-colored plains far to the right and left. On the east the travellers
could easily see the ring-mountain Condamine, about 4000 feet high, while a little ahead on
the right they could plainly distinguish Fontenelle with an altitude nearly twice as great.
Mare Frigoris was soon passed, and the whole lunar surface beneath the travellers, as far as
they could see in all directions, now bristled with mountains, crags, and peaks. Indeed, at
the 70th parallel the "Seas" or plains seem to have come to an end. The spy-glasses now brought
the surface to within about three miles, a distance less than that between the hotel at Chamouni
and the summit of Mont Blanc. To the left, they had no difficulty in distinguishing the ramparts
of Philolaus, about 12,000 feet high, but though the crater had a diameter of nearly thirty
miles, the black shadows prevented the slightest sign of its interior from being seen. The
Sun was now sinking very low, and the illuminated surface of the Moon was reduced to a narrow rim.

By this time, too, the bird's eye view to which the observations had so far principally confined,
decidedly altered its character. They could now look back at the lunar mountains that they
had been just sailing over--a view somewhat like that enjoyed by a tourist standing on the
summit of Mt. St. Gothard as he sees the sun setting behind the peaks of the Bernese Oberland.
The lunar landscapes however, though seen under these new and ever varying conditions, "hardly
gained much by the change," according to Ardan's expression. On the contrary, they looked,
if possible, more dreary and inhospitable than before.

The Moon having no atmosphere, the benefit of this gaseous envelope in softening off and nicely
shading the approaches of light and darkness, heat and cold, is never felt on her surface.
There, no twilight ever softly ushers in the brilliant sun, or sweetly heralds the near approach
of night's dark shadow. Night follows day, and day night, with the startling suddenness of
a match struck or a lamp extinguished in a cavern. Nor can it present any gradual transition
from either extreme of temperature. Hot jumps to cold, and cold jumps to hot. A moment after
a glacial midnight, it is a roasting noon. Without an instant's warning the temperature falls
from 212° Fahrenheit to the icy winter of interstellar space. The surface is all dazzling glare,
or pitchy gloom. Wherever the direct rays of the sun do not fall, darkness reigns supreme.
What we call diffused light on Earth, the grateful result of refraction, the luminous matter
held in suspension by the air, the mother of our dawns and our dusks, of our blushing mornings
and our dewy eyes, of our shades, our penumbras, our tints and all the other magical effects
of chiaro-oscuro--this diffused light has absolutely no existence on the surface of the Moon.
Nothing is there to break the inexorable contrast between intense white and intense black.
At mid-day, let a Selenite shade his eyes and look at the sky: it will appear to him as black
as pitch, while the stars still sparkle before him as vividly as they do to us on the coldest
and darkest night in winter.

From this you can judge of the impression made on our travellers by those strange lunar landscapes.
Even their decided novelty and very strange character produced any thing but a pleasing effect
on the organs of sight. With all their enthusiasm, the travellers felt their eyes "get out
of gear," as Ardan said, like those of a man blind from his birth and suddenly restored to
sight. They could not adjust them so as to be able to realize the different plains of vision.
All things seemed in a heap. Foreground and background were indistinguishably commingled. No
painter could ever transfer a lunar landscape to his canvas.

"Landscape," Ardan said; "what do you mean by a landscape? Can you call a bottle of ink intensely
black, spilled over a sheet of paper intensely white, a landscape?"

At the eightieth degree, when the Projectile was hardly 100 miles distant from the Moon, the
aspect of things underwent no improvement. On the contrary, the nearer the travellers approached
the lunar surface, the drearier, the more inhospitable, and the more unearthly, everything
seem to look. Still when five o'clock in the morning brought our travellers to within 50 miles
of Mount Gioja--which their spy-glasses rendered as visible as if it was only about half a
mile off, Ardan could not control himself.

"Why, we're there" he exclaimed; "we can touch her with our hands! Open the windows and let
me out! Don't mind letting me go by myself. It is not very inviting quarters I admit. But as
we are come to the jumping off place, I want to see the whole thing through. Open the lower
window and let me out. I can take care of myself!"

"That's what's more than any other man can do," said M'Nicholl drily, "who wants to take a
jump of 50 miles!"

"Better not try it, friend Ardan," said Barbican grimly: "think of Satellite! The Moon is no
more attainable by your body than by our Projectile. You are far more comfortable in here than
when floating about in empty space like a bolide."

Ardan, unwilling to quarrel with his companions, appeared to give in; but he secretly consoled
himself by a hope which he had been entertaining for some time, and which now looked like assuming
the appearance of a certainty. The Projectile had been lately approaching the Moon's surface
so rapidly that it at last seemed actually impossible not to finally touch it somewhere in
the neighborhood of the north pole, whose dazzling ridges now presented themselves in sharp
and strong relief against the black sky. Therefore he kept silent, but quietly bided his time.

The Projectile moved on, evidently getting nearer and nearer to the lunar surface. The Moon
now appeared to the travellers as she does to us towards the beginning of her Second Quarter,
that is as a bright crescent instead of a hemisphere. On one side, glaring dazzling light;
on the other, cavernous pitchy darkness. The line separating both was broken into a thousand
bits of protuberances and concavities, dented, notched, and jagged.

At six o'clock the travellers found themselves exactly over the north pole. They were quietly
gazing at the rapidly shifting features of the wondrous view unrolling itself beneath them,
and were silently wondering what was to come next, when, suddenly, the Projectile passed the
dividing line. The Sun and Moon instantly vanished from view. The next moment, without the
slightest warning the travellers found themselves plunged in an ocean of the most appalling
darkness!

CHAPTER XIV.

A NIGHT OF FIFTEEN DAYS.

The Projectile being not quite 30 miles from the Moon's north pole when the startling phenomenon,
recorded in our last chapter, took place, a few seconds were quite sufficient to launch it
at once from the brightest day into the unknown realms of night. The transition was so abrupt,
so unexpected, without the slightest shading off, from dazzling effulgence to Cimmerian gloom,
that the Moon seemed to have been suddenly extinguished like a lamp when the gas is turned off.

"Where's the Moon?" cried Ardan in amazement.

"It appears as if she had been wiped out of creation!" cried M'Nicholl.

Barbican said nothing, but observed carefully. Not a particle, however, could he see of the
disc that had glittered so resplendently before his eyes a few moments ago. Not a shadow, not
a gleam, not the slightest vestige could he trace of its existence. The darkness being profound,
the dazzling splendor of the stars only gave a deeper blackness to the pitchy sky. No wonder.
The travellers found themselves now in a night that had plenty of time not only to become black
itself, but to steep everything connected with it in palpable blackness. This was the night
354-1/4 hours long, during which the invisible face of the Moon is turned away from the Sun.
In this black darkness the Projectile now fully participated. Having plunged into the Moon's
shadow, it was as effectually cut off from the action of the solar rays as was every point
on the invisible lunar surface itself.

The travellers being no longer able to see each other, it was proposed to light the gas, though
such an unexpected demand on a commodity at once so scarce and so valuable was certainly disquieting.
The gas, it will be remembered, had been intended for heating alone, not illumination, of which
both Sun and Moon had promised a never ending supply. But here both Sun and Moon, in a single
instant vanished from before their eyes and left them in Stygian darkness.

"It's all the Sun's fault!" cried Ardan, angrily trying to throw the blame on something, and,
like every angry man in such circumstances, bound to be rather nonsensical.

"Put the saddle on the right horse, Ardan," said M'Nicholl patronizingly, always delighted
at an opportunity of counting a point off the Frenchman. "You mean it's all the Moon's fault,
don't you, in setting herself like a screen between us and the Sun?"

"No, I don't!" cried Ardan, not at all soothed by his friend's patronizing tone, and sticking
like a man to his first assertion right or wrong. "I know what I say! It will be all the Sun's
fault if we use up our gas!"

"Nonsense!" said M'Nicholl. "It's the Moon, who by her interposition has cut off the Sun's light."

"The Sun had no business to allow it to be cut off," said Ardan, still angry and therefore
decidedly loose in his assertions.

Before M'Nicholl could reply, Barbican interposed, and his even voice was soon heard pouring
balm on the troubled waters.

"Dear friends," he observed, "a little reflection on either side would convince you that our
present situation is neither the Moon's fault nor the Sun's fault. If anything is to be blamed
for it, it is our Projectile which, instead of rigidly following its allotted course, has awkwardly
contrived to deviate from it. However, strict justice must acquit even the Projectile. It only
obeyed a great law of nature in shifting its course as soon as it came within the sphere of
that inopportune bolide's influence."

"All right!" said Ardan, as usual in the best of humor after Barbican had laid down the law.
"I have no doubt it is exactly as you say; and, now that all is settled, suppose we take breakfast.
After such a hard night spent in work, a little refreshment would not be out of place!"

Such a proposition being too reasonable even for M'Nicholl to oppose, Ardan turned on the gas,
and had everything ready for the meal in a few minutes. But, this time, breakfast was consumed
in absolute silence. No toasts were offered, no hurrahs were uttered. A painful uneasiness
had seized the hearts of the daring travellers. The darkness into which they were so suddenly
plunged, told decidedly on their spirits. They felt almost as if they had been suddenly deprived
of their sight. That thick, dismal savage blackness, which Victor Hugo's pen is so fond of
occasionally revelling in, surrounded them on all sides and crushed them like an iron shroud.

It was felt worse than ever when, breakfast being over, Ardan carefully turned off the gas,
and everything within the Projectile was as dark as without. However, though they could not
see each other's faces, they could hear each other's voices, and therefore they soon began
to talk. The most natural subject of conversation was this terrible night 354 hours long, which
the laws of nature have imposed on the Lunar inhabitants. Barbican undertook to give his friends
some explanation regarding the cause of the startling phenomenon, and the consequences resulting
from it.

"Yes, startling is the word for it," observed Barbican, replying to a remark of Ardan's; "and
still more so when we reflect that not only are both lunar hemispheres deprived, by turns,
of sun light for nearly 15 days, but that also the particular hemisphere over which we are
at this moment floating is all that long night completely deprived of earth-light. In other
words, it is only one side of the Moon's disc that ever receives any light from the Earth.
From nearly every portion of one side of the Moon, the Earth is always as completely absent
as the Sun is from us at midnight. Suppose an analogous case existed on the Earth; suppose,
for instance, that neither in Europe, Asia or North America was the Moon ever visible--that,
in fact, it was to be seen only at our antipodes. With what astonishment should we contemplate
her for the first time on our arrival in Australia or New Zealand!"

"Every man of us would pack off to Australia to see her!" cried Ardan.

"Yes," said M'Nicholl sententiously; "for a visit to the South Sea a Turk would willingly forego
Mecca; and a Bostonian would prefer Sidney even to Paris."

"Well," resumed Barbican, "this interesting marvel is reserved for the Selenite that inhabits
the side of the Moon which is always turned away from our globe."

"And which," added the Captain, "we should have had the unspeakable satisfaction of contemplating
if we had only arrived at the period when the Sun and the Earth are not at the same side of
the Moon--that is, 15 days sooner or later than now."

"For my part, however," continued Barbican, not heeding these interruptions, "I must confess
that, notwithstanding the magnificent splendor of the spectacle when viewed for the first time
by the Selenite who inhabits the dark side of the Moon, I should prefer to be a resident on
the illuminated side. The former, when his long, blazing, roasting, dazzling day is over, has
a night 354 hours long, whose darkness, like that, just now surrounding us, is ever unrelieved
save by the cold cheerless rays of the stars. But the latter has hardly seen his fiery sun
sinking on one horizon when he beholds rising on the opposite one an orb, milder, paler, and
colder indeed than the Sun, but fully as large as thirteen of our full Moons, and therefore
shedding thirteen times as much light. This would be our Earth. It would pass through all its
phases too, exactly like our Satellite. The Selenites would have their New Earth, Full Earth,
and Last Quarter. At midnight, grandly illuminated, it would shine with the greatest glory.
But that is almost as much as can be said for it. Its futile heat would but poorly compensate
for its superior radiance. All the calorie accumulated in the lunar soil during the 354 hours
day would have by this time radiated completely into space. An intensity of cold would prevail,
in comparison to which a Greenland winter is tropical. The temperature of interstellar space,
250° below zero, would be reached. Our Selenite, heartily tired of the cold pale Earth, would
gladly see her sink towards the horizon, waning as she sank, till at last she appeared no more
than half full. Then suddenly a faint rim of the solar orb reveals itself on the edge of the
opposite sky. Slowly, more than 14 times more slowly than with us, does the Sun lift himself
above the lunar horizon. In half an hour, only half his disc is revealed, but that is more
than enough to flood the lunar landscape with a dazzling intensity of light, of which we have
no counterpart on Earth. No atmosphere refracts it, no hazy screen softens it, no enveloping
vapor absorbs it, no obstructing medium colors it. It breaks on the eye, harsh, white, dazzling,
blinding, like the electric light seen a few yards off. As the hours wear away, the more blasting
becomes the glare; and the higher he rises in the black sky, but slowly, slowly. It takes him
seven of our days to reach the meridian. By that time the heat has increased from an arctic
temperature to double the boiling water point, from 250° below zero to 500° above it, or the
point at which tin melts. Subjected to these extremes, the glassy rocks crack, shiver and crumble
away; enormous land slides occur; peaks topple over; and tons of debris, crashing down the
mountains, are swallowed up forever in the yawing chasms of the bottomless craters."

"Bravo!" cried Ardan, clapping his hands softly: "our President is sublime! He reminds me of
the overture of Guillaume Tell!"

"Souvenir de Marston!" growled M'Nicholl.

"These phenomena," continued Barbican, heedless of interruption and his voice betraying a slight
glow of excitement, "these phenomena going on without interruption from month to month, from
year to year, from age to age, from eon to eon, have finally convinced me that--what?" he asked
his hearers, interrupting himself suddenly.

--"That the existence at the present time--" answered M'Nicholl.

--"Of either animal or vegetable life--" interrupted Ardan.

--"In the Moon is hardly possible!" cried both in one voice.

"Besides?" asked Barbican: "even if there is any life--?"

--"That to live on the dark side would be much more inconvenient than on the light side!" cried
M'Nicholl promptly.

--"That there is no choice between them!" cried Ardan just as ready. "For my part, I should
think a residence on Mt. Erebus or in Grinnell Land a terrestrial paradise in comparison to
either. The Earth shine might illuminate the light side of the Moon a little during the long
night, but for any practical advantage towards heat or life, it would be perfectly useless!"

"But there is another serious difference between the two sides," said Barbican, "in addition
to those enumerated. The dark side is actually more troubled with excessive variations of temperature
than the light one."

"That assertion of our worthy President," interrupted Ardan, "with all possible respect for
his superior knowledge, I am disposed to question."

"It's as clear as day!" said Barbican.

"As clear as mud, you mean, Mr. President;" interrupted Ardan, "the temperature of the light
side is excited by two objects at the same time, the Earth and the Sun, whereas--"

--"I beg your pardon, Ardan--" said Barbican.

--"Granted, dear boy--granted with the utmost pleasure!" interrupted the Frenchman.

"I shall probably have to direct my observations altogether to you, Captain," continued Barbican;
"friend Michael interrupts me so often that I'm afraid he can hardly understand my remarks."

"I always admired your candor, Barbican," said Ardan; "it's a noble quality, a grand quality!"

"Don't mention it," replied Barbican, turning towards M'Nicholl, still in the dark, and addressing
him exclusively; "You see, my dear Captain, the period at which the Moon's invisible side receives
at once its light and heat is exactly the period of her conjunction, that is to say, when she
is lying between the Earth and the Sun. In comparison therefore with the place which she had
occupied at her opposition, or when her visible side was fully illuminated, she is nearer to
the Sun by double her distance from the Earth, or nearly 480 thousand miles. Therefore, my
dear Captain, you can see how when the invisible side of the Moon is turned towards the Sun,
she is nearly half a million of miles nearer to him than she had been before. Therefore, her
heat should be so much the greater."

"I see it at a glance," said the Captain.

"Whereas--" continued Barbican.

"One moment!" cried Ardan.

"Another interruption!" exclaimed Barbican; "What is the meaning of it, Sir?"

"I ask my honorable friend the privilege of the floor for one moment," cried Ardan.

"What for?"

"To continue the explanation."

"Why so?"

"To show that I can understand as well as interrupt!"

"You have the floor!" exclaimed Barbican, in a voice no longer showing any traces of ill humor.

"I expected no less from the honorable gentleman's well known courtesy," replied Ardan. Then
changing his manner and imitating to the life Barbican's voice, articulation, and gestures,
he continued: "Whereas, you see, my dear Captain, the period at which the Moon's visible side
receives at once its light and heat, is exactly the period of her opposition, that is to say,
when she is lying on one side of the Earth and the Sun at the other. In comparison therefore
with the point which she had occupied in conjunction, or when her invisible side was fully
illuminated, she is farther from the Sun by double her distance from the Earth, or nearly 480,000
miles. Therefore, my dear Captain, you can readily see how when the Moon's invisible side is
turned from the Sun, she is nearly half a million miles further from him than she had been
before. Therefore her heat should be so much the less."

"Well done, friend Ardan!" cried Barbican, clapping his hands with pleasure. "Yes, Captain,
he understood it as well as either of us the whole time. Intelligence, not indifference, caused
him to interrupt. Wonderful fellow!"

"That's the kind of a man I am!" replied Ardan, not without some degree of complacency. Then
he added simply: "Barbican, my friend, if I understand your explanations so readily, attribute
it all to their astonishing lucidity. If I have any faculity, it is that of being able to scent
common sense at the first glimmer. Your sentences are so steeped in it that I catch their full
meaning long before you end them--hence my apparent inattention. But we're not yet done with
the visible face of the Moon: it seems to me you have not yet enumerated all the advantages
in which it surpasses the other side."

"Another of these advantages," continued Barbican, "is that it is from the visible side alone
that eclipses of the Sun can be seen. This is self-evident, the interposition of the Earth
being possible only between this visible face and the Sun. Furthermore, such eclipses of the
Sun would be of a far more imposing character than anything of the kind to be witnessed from
our Earth. This is chiefly for two reasons: first, when we, terrestrians, see the Sun eclipsed,
we notice that, the discs of the two orbs being of about the same apparent size, one cannot
hide the other except for a short time; second, as the two bodies are moving in opposite directions,
the total duration of the eclipse, even under the most favorable circumstances, can't last
longer than 7 minutes. Whereas to a Selenite who sees the Earth eclipse the Sun, not only does
the Earth's disc appear four times larger than the Sun's, but also, as his day is 14 times
longer than ours, the two heavenly bodies must remain several hours in contact. Besides, notwithstanding
the apparent superiority of the Earth's disc, the refracting power of the atmosphere will never
allow the Sun to be eclipsed altogether. Even when completely screened by the Earth, he would
form a beautiful circle around her of yellow, red, and crimson light, in which she would appear
to float like a vast sphere of jet in a glowing sea of gold, rubies, sparkling carbuncles and
garnets."

"It seems to me," said M'Nicholl, "that, taking everything into consideration, the invisible
side has been rather shabbily treated."

"I know I should not stay there very long," said Ardan; "the desire of seeing such a splendid
sight as that eclipse would be enough to bring me to the visible side as soon as possible."

"Yes, I have no doubt of that, friend Michael," pursued Barbican; "but to see the eclipse it
would not be necessary to quit the dark hemisphere altogether. You are, of course, aware that
in consequence of her librations, or noddings, or wobblings, the Moon presents to the eyes
of the Earth a little more than the exact half of her disc. She has two motions, one on her
path around the Earth, and the other a shifting around on her own axis by which she endeavors
to keep the same side always turned towards our sphere. This she cannot always do, as while
one motion, the latter, is strictly uniform, the other being eccentric, sometimes accelerating
her and sometimes retarding, she has not time to shift herself around completely and with perfect
correspondence of movement. At her perigee, for instance, she moves forward quicker than she
can shift, so that we detect a portion of her western border before she has time to conceal
it. Similarly, at her apogee, when her rate of motion is comparatively slow, she shifts a little
too quickly for her velocity, and therefore cannot help revealing a certain portion of her
eastern border. She shows altogether about 8 degrees of the dark side, about 4 at the east
and 4 at the west, so that, out of her 360 degrees, about 188, in other words, a little more
than 57 per cent., about 4/7 of the entire surface, becomes visible to human eyes. Consequently
a Selenite could catch an occasional glimpse of our Earth, without altogether quitting the
dark side."

"No matter for that!" cried Ardan; "if we ever become Selenites we must inhabit the visible
side. My weak point is light, and that I must have when it can be got."

"Unless, as perhaps in this case, you might be paying too dear for it," observed M'Nicholl.
"How would you like to pay for your light by the loss of the atmosphere, which, according to
some philosophers, is piled away on the dark side?"

"Ah! In that case I should consider a little before committing myself," replied Ardan, "I should
like to hear your opinion regarding such a notion, Barbican. Hey! Do your hear? Have astronomers
any valid reasons for supposing the atmosphere to have fled to the dark side of the Moon?"

"Defer that question till some other time, Ardan," whispered M'Nicholl; "Barbican is just now
thinking out something that interests him far more deeply than any empty speculation of astronomers.
If you are near the window, look out through it towards the Moon. Can you see anything?"

"I can feel the window with my hand; but for all I can see, I might as well be over head and
ears in a hogshead of ink."

The two friends kept up a desultory conversation, but Barbican did not hear them. One fact,
in particular, troubled him, and he sought in vain to account for it. Having come so near the
Moon--about 30 miles--why had not the Projectile gone all the way? Had its velocity been very
great, the tendency to fall could certainly be counteracted. But the velocity being undeniably
very moderate, how explain such a decided resistance to Lunar attraction? Had the Projectile
come within the sphere of some strange unknown influence? Did the neighborhood of some mysterious
body retain it firmly imbedded in ether? That it would never reach the Moon, was now beyond
all doubt; but where was it going? Nearer to her or further off? Or was it rushing resistlessly
into infinity on the wings of that pitchy night? Who could tell, know, calculate--who could
even guess, amid the horror of this gloomy blackness? Questions, like these, left Barbican
no rest; in vain he tried to grapple with them; he felt like a child before them, baffled and
almost despairing.

In fact, what could be more tantalizing? Just outside their windows, only a few leagues off,
perhaps only a few miles, lay the radiant planet of the night, but in every respect as far
off from the eyes of himself and his companions as if she was hiding at the other side of Jupiter!
And to their ears she was no nearer. Earthquakes of the old Titanic type might at that very
moment be upheaving her surface with resistless force, crashing mountain against mountain as
fiercely as wave meets wave around the storm-lashed cliffs of Cape Horn. But not the faintest
far off murmur even of such a mighty tumult could break the dead brooding silence that surrounded
the travellers. Nay, the Moon, realizing the weird fancy of the Arabian poet, who calls her
a "giant stiffening into granite, but struggling madly against his doom," might shriek, in
a spasm of agony, loudly enough to be heard in Sirius. But our travellers could not hear it.
Their ears no sound could now reach. They could no more detect the rending of a continent than
the falling of a feather. Air, the propagator and transmitter of sound, was absent from her
surface. Her cries, her struggles, her groans, were all smothered beneath the impenetrable
tomb of eternal silence!

These were some of the fanciful ideas by which Ardan tried to amuse his companions in the present
unsatisfactory state of affairs. His efforts, however well meant, were not successful. M'Nicholl's
growls were more savage than usual, and even Barbican's patience was decidedly giving way.
The loss of the other face they could have easily borne--with most of its details they had
been already familiar. But, no, it must be the dark face that now escaped their observation!
The very one that for numberless reasons they were actually dying to see! They looked out of
the windows once more at the black Moon beneath them.

There it lay below them, a round black spot, hiding the sweet faces of the stars, but otherwise
no more distinguishable by the travellers than if they were lying in the depths of the Mammoth
Cave of Kentucky. And just think. Only fifteen days before, that dark face had been splendidly
illuminated by the solar beams, every crater lustrous, every peak sparkling, every streak glistening
under the vertical ray. In fifteen days later, a day light the most brilliant would have replaced
a midnight the most Cimmerian. But in fifteen days later, where would the Projectile be? In
what direction would it have been drawn by the forces innumerable of attractions incalculable?
To such a question as this, even Ardan would reply only by an ominous shake of the head.

We know already that our travellers, as well as astronomers generally, judging from that portion
of the dark side occasionally revealed by the Moon's librations, were pretty certain that there
is no great difference between her two sides, as far as regards their physical constitutions.
This portion, about the seventh part, shows plains and mountains, circles and craters, all
of precisely the same nature as those already laid down on the chart. Judging therefore from
analogy, the other three-sevenths are, in all probability a world in every respect exactly
like the visible face--that is, arid, desert, dead. But our travellers also knew that pretty
certain is far from quite certain, and that arguing merely from analogy may enable you to give
a good guess, but can never lead you to an undoubted conclusion. What if the atmosphere had
really withdrawn to this dark face? And if air, why not water? Would not this be enough to
infuse life into the whole continent? Why should not vegetation flourish on its plains, fish
in its seas, animals in its forests, and man in every one of its zones that were capable of
sustaining life? To these interesting questions, what a satisfaction it would be to be able
to answer positively one way or another! For thousands of difficult problems a mere glimpse
at this hemisphere would be enough to furnish a satisfactory reply. How glorious it would be
to contemplate a realm on which the eye of man has never yet rested!

Great, therefore, as you may readily conceive, was the depression of our travellers' spirits,
as they pursued their way, enveloped in a veil of darkness the most profound. Still even then
Ardan, as usual, formed somewhat of an exception. Finding it impossible to see a particle of
the Lunar surface, he gave it up for good, and tried to console himself by gazing at the stars,
which now fairly blazed in the spangled heavens. And certainly never before had astronomer
enjoyed an opportunity for gazing at the heavenly bodies under such peculiar advantages. How
Fraye of Paris, Chacornac of Lyons, and Father Secchi of Rome would have envied him!

For, candidly and truly speaking, never before had mortal eye revelled on such a scene of starry
splendor. The black sky sparkled with lustrous fires, like the ceiling of a vast hall of ebony
encrusted with flashing diamonds. Ardan's eye could take in the whole extent in an easy sweep
from the Southern Cross to the Little Bear, thus embracing within one glance not only the two
polar stars of the present day, but also Campus and Vega, which, by reason of the precession
of the Equinoxes, are to be our polar stars 12,000 years hence. His imagination, as if intoxicated,
reeled wildly through these sublime infinitudes and got lost in them. He forgot all about himself
and all about his companions. He forgot even the strangeness of the fate that had sent them
wandering through these forbidden regions, like a bewildered comet that had lost its way. With
what a soft sweet light every star glowed! No matter what its magnitude, the stream that flowed
from it looked calm and holy. No twinkling, no scintillation, no nictitation, disturbed their
pure and lambent gleam. No atmosphere here interposed its layers of humidity or of unequal
density to interrupt the stately majesty of their effulgence. The longer he gazed upon them,
the more absorbing became their attraction. He felt that they were great kindly eyes looking
down even yet with benevolence and protection on himself and his companions now driving wildly
through space, and lost in the pathless depths of the black ocean of infinity!

He soon became aware that his friends, following his example, had interested themselves in
gazing at the stars, and were now just as absorbed as himself in the contemplation of the transcendent
spectacle. For a long time all three continued to feast their eyes on all the glories of the
starry firmament; but, strange to say, the part that seemed to possess the strangest and weirdest
fascination for their wandering glances was the spot where the vast disc of the Moon showed
like an enormous round hole, black and soundless, and apparently deep enough to permit a glance
into the darkest mysteries of the infinite.

A disagreeable sensation, however, against which they had been for some time struggling, at
last put an end to their contemplations, and compelled them to think of themselves. This was
nothing less than a pretty sharp cold, at first somewhat endurable, but which soon covered
the inside surface of the window panes with a thick coating of ice. The fact was that, the
Sun's direct rays having no longer an opportunity of warming up the Projectile, the latter
began to lose rapidly by radiation whatever heat it had stored away within its walls. The consequence
was a very decided falling of the thermometer, and so thick a condensation of the internal
moisture on the window glasses as to soon render all external observations extremely difficult,
if not actually impossible.

The Captain, as the oldest man in the party, claimed the privilege of saying he could stand
it no longer. Striking a light, he consulted the thermometer and cried out:

"Seventeen degrees below zero, centigrade! that is certainly low enough to make an old fellow
like me feel rather chilly!"

"Just one degree and a half above zero, Fahrenheit!" observed Barbican; "I really had no idea
that it was so cold."

His teeth actually chattered so much that he could hardly articulate; still he, as well as
the others, disliked to entrench on their short supply of gas.

"One feature of our journey that I particularly admire," said Ardan, trying to laugh with freezing
lips, "is that we can't complain of monotony. At one time we are frying with the heat and blinded
with the light, like Indians caught on a burning prairie; at another, we are freezing in the
pitchy darkness of a hyperborean winter, like Sir John Franklin's merry men in the Bay of Boothia.
Madame La Nature, you don't forget your devotees; on the contrary, you overwhelm us with your
attentions!"

"Our external temperature may be reckoned at how much?" asked the Captain, making a desperate
effort to keep up the conversation.

"The temperature outside our Projectile must be precisely the same as that of interstellar
space in general," answered Barbican.

"Is not this precisely the moment then," interposed Ardan, quickly, "for making an experiment
which we could never have made as long as we were in the sunshine?"

"That's so!" exclaimed Barbican; "now or never! I'm glad you thought of it, Ardan. We are just
now in the position to find out the temperature of space by actual experiment, and so see whose
calculations are right, Fourier's or Pouillet's."

"Let's see," asked Ardan, "who was Fourier, and who was Pouillet?"

"Baron Fourier, of the French Academy, wrote a famous treatise on Heat, which I remember reading
twenty years ago in Penington's book store," promptly responded the Captain; "Pouillet was
an eminent professor of Physics at the Sorbonne, where he died, last year, I think."

"Thank you, Captain," said Ardan; "the cold does not injure your memory, though it is decidedly
on the advance. See how thick the ice is already on the window panes! Let it only keep on and
we shall soon have our breaths falling around us in flakes of snow."

"Let us prepare a thermometer," said Barbican, who had already set himself to work in a business-like
manner.

A thermometer of the usual kind, as may be readily supposed, would be of no use whatever in
the experiment that was now about to be made. In an ordinary thermometer Mercury freezes hard
when exposed to a temperature of 40° below zero. But Barbican had provided himself with a Minimum,
self-recording thermometer, of a peculiar nature, invented by Wolferdin, a friend of Arago's,
which could correctly register exceedingly low degrees of temperature. Before beginning the
experiment, this instrument was tested by comparison with one of the usual kind, and then Barbican
hesitated a few moments regarding the best means of employing it.

"How shall we start this experiment?" asked the Captain.

"Nothing simpler," answered Ardan, always ready to reply; "you just open your windows, and
fling out your thermometer. It follows your Projectile, as a calf follows her mother. In a
quarter of an hour you put out your hand--"

"Put out your hand!" interrupted Barbican.

"Put out your hand--" continued Ardan, quietly.

"You do nothing of the kind," again interrupted Barbican; "that is, unless you prefer, instead
of a hand, to pull back a frozen stump, shapeless, colorless and lifeless!"

"I prefer a hand," said Ardan, surprised and interested.

"Yes," continued Barbican, "the instant your hand left the Projectile, it would experience
the same terrible sensations as is produced by cauterizing it with an iron bar white hot. For
heat, whether rushing rapidly out of our bodies or rapidly entering them, is identically the
same force and does the same amount of damage. Besides I am by no means certain that we are
still followed by the objects that we flung out of the Projectile."

"Why not?" asked M'Nicholl; "we saw them all outside not long ago."

"But we can't see them outside now," answered Barbican; "that may be accounted for, I know,
by the darkness, but it may be also by the fact of their not being there at all. In a case
like this, we can't rely on uncertainties. Therefore, to make sure of not losing our thermometer,
we shall fasten it with a string and easily pull it in whenever we like."

This advice being adopted, the window was opened quickly, and the instrument was thrown out
at once by M'Nicholl, who held it fastened by a short stout cord so that it could be pulled
in immediately. The window had hardly been open for longer than a second, yet that second had
been enough to admit a terrible icy chill into the interior of the Projectile.

"Ten thousand ice-bergs!" cried Ardan, shivering all over; "it's cold enough to freeze a white
bear!"

Barbican waited quietly for half an hour; that time he considered quite long enough to enable
the instrument to acquire the temperature of the interstellar space. Then he gave the signal,
and it was instantly pulled in.

It took him a few moments to calculate the quantity of mercury that had escaped into the little
diaphragm attached to the lower part of the instrument; then he said:

"A hundred and forty degrees, centigrade, below zero!"

"Two hundred and twenty degrees, Fahrenheit, below zero!" cried M'Nicholl; "no wonder that
we should feel a little chilly!"

"Pouillet is right, then," said Barbican, "and Fourier wrong."

"Another victory for Sorbonne over the Academy!" cried Ardan. "Vive la Sorbonne! Not that I'm
a bit proud of finding myself in the midst of a temperature so very distingué--though it is
more than three times colder than Hayes ever felt it at Humboldt Glacier or Nevenoff at Yakoutsk.
If Madame the Moon becomes as cold as this every time that her surface is withdrawn from the
sunlight for fourteen days, I don't think, boys, that her hospitality is much to hanker after!"

CHAPTER XV.

GLIMPSES AT THE INVISIBLE.

In spite of the dreadful condition in which the three friends now found themselves, and the
still more dreadful future that awaited them, it must be acknowledged that Ardan bravely kept
up his spirits. And his companions were just as cheerful. Their philosophy was quite simple
and perfectly intelligible. What they could bear, they bore without murmuring. When it became
unbearable, they only complained, if complaining would do any good. Imprisoned in an iron shroud,
flying through profound darkness into the infinite abysses of space, nearly a quarter million
of miles distant from all human aid, freezing with the icy cold, their little stock not only
of gas but of air rapidly running lower and lower, a near future of the most impenetrable obscurity
looming up before them, they never once thought of wasting time in asking such useless questions
as where they were going, or what fate was about to befall them. Knowing that no good could
possibly result from inaction or despair, they carefully kept their wits about them, making
their experiments and recording their observations as calmly and as deliberately as if they
were working at home in the quiet retirement of their own cabinets.

Any other course of action, however, would have been perfectly absurd on their part, and this
no one knew better than themselves. Even if desirous to act otherwise, what could they have
done? As powerless over the Projectile as a baby over a locomotive, they could neither clap
brakes to its movement nor switch off its direction. A sailor can turn his ship's head at pleasure;
an aeronaut has little trouble, by means of his ballast and his throttle-valve, in giving a
vertical movement to his balloon. But nothing of this kind could our travellers attempt. No
helm, or ballast, or throttle-valve could avail them now. Nothing in the world could be done
to prevent things from following their own course to the bitter end.

If these three men would permit themselves to hazard an expression at all on the subject, which
they didn't, each could have done it by his own favorite motto, so admirably expressive of
his individual nature. "Donnez tête baissée!" (Go it baldheaded!) showed Ardan's uncalculating
impetuosity and his Celtic blood. "Fata quocunque vocant!" (To its logical consequence!) revealed
Barbican's imperturbable stoicism, culture hardening rather than loosening the original British
phlegm. Whilst M'Nicholl's "Screw down the valve and let her rip!" betrayed at once his unconquerable
Yankee coolness and his old experiences as a Western steamboat captain.

Where were they now, at eight o'clock in the morning of the day called in America the sixth
of December? Near the Moon, very certainly; near enough, in fact, for them to perceive easily
in the dark the great round screen which she formed between themselves and the Projectile on
one side, and the Earth, Sun, and stars on the other. But as to the exact distance at which
she lay from them--they had no possible means of calculating it. The Projectile, impelled and
maintained by forces inexplicable and even incomprehensible, had come within less than thirty
miles from the Moon's north pole. But during those two hours of immersion in the dark shadow,
had this distance been increased or diminished? There was evidently no stand-point whereby
to estimate either the Projectile's direction or its velocity. Perhaps, moving rapidly away
from the Moon, it would be soon out of her shadow altogether. Perhaps, on the contrary, gradually
approaching her surface, it might come into contact at any moment with some sharp invisible
peak of the Lunar mountains--a catastrophe sure to put a sudden end to the trip, and the travellers
too.

An excited discussion on this subject soon sprang up, in which all naturally took part. Ardan's
imagination as usual getting the better of his reason, he maintained very warmly that the Projectile,
caught and retained by the Moon's attraction, could not help falling on her surface, just as
an aerolite cannot help falling on our Earth.

"Softly, dear boy, softly," replied Barbican; "aerolites can help falling on the Earth, and
the proof is, that few of them do fall--most of them don't. Therefore, even granting that we
had already assumed the nature of an aerolite, it does not necessarily follow that we should
fall on the Moon."

"But," objected Ardan, "if we approach only near enough, I don't see how we can help--"

"You don't see, it may be," said Barbican, "but you can see, if you only reflect a moment.
Have you not often seen the November meteors, for instance, streaking the skies, thousands
at a time?"

"Yes; on several occasions I was so fortunate."

"Well, did you ever see any of them strike the Earth's surface?" asked Barbican.

"I can't say I ever did," was the candid reply, "but--"

"Well, these shooting stars," continued Barbican, "or rather these wandering particles of matter,
shine only from being inflamed by the friction of the atmosphere. Therefore they can never
be at a greater distance from the Earth than 30 or 40 miles at furthest, and yet they seldom
fall on it. So with our Projectile. It may go very close to the Moon without falling into it."

"But our roving Projectile must pull up somewhere in the long run," replied Ardan, "and I should
like to know where that somewhere can be, if not in the Moon."

"Softly again, dear boy," said Barbican; "how do you know that our Projectile must pull up
somewhere?"

"It's self-evident," replied Ardan; "it can't keep moving for ever."

"Whether it can or it can't depends altogether on which one of two mathematical curves it has
followed in describing its course. According to the velocity with which it was endowed at a
certain moment, it must follow either the one or the other; but this velocity I do not consider
myself just now able to calculate."

"Exactly so," chimed in M'Nicholl; "it must describe and keep on describing either a parabola
or a hyperbola."

"Precisely," said Barbican; "at a certain velocity it would take a parabolic curve; with a
velocity considerably greater it should describe a hyperbolic curve."

"I always did like nice corpulent words," said Ardan, trying to laugh; "bloated and unwieldy,
they express in a neat handy way exactly what you mean. Of course, I know all about the high--high--those
high curves, and those low curves. No matter. Explain them to me all the same. Consider me
most deplorably ignorant on the nature of these curves."

"Well," said the Captain, a little bumptiously, "a parabola is a curve of the second order,
formed by the intersection of a cone by a plane parallel to one of its sides."

"You don't say so!" cried Ardan, with mouth agape. "Do tell!"

"It is pretty nearly the path taken by a shell shot from a mortar."

"Well now!" observed Ardan, apparently much surprised; "who'd have thought it? Now for the
high--high--bully old curve!"

"The hyperbola," continued the Captain, not minding Ardan's antics, "the hyperbola is a curve
of the second order, formed from the intersection of a cone by a plane parallel to its axis,
or rather parallel to its two generatrices, constituting two separate branches, extending indefinitely
in both directions."

"Oh, what an accomplished scientist I'm going to turn out, if only left long enough at your
feet, illustrious maestro!" cried Ardan, with effusion. "Only figure it to yourselves, boys;
before the Captain's lucid explanations, I fully expected to hear something about the high
curves and the low curves in the back of an Ancient Thomas! Oh, Michael, Michael, why didn't
you know the Captain earlier?"

But the Captain was now too deeply interested in a hot discussion with Barbican to notice that
the Frenchman was only funning him. Which of the two curves had been the one most probably
taken by the Projectile? Barbican maintained it was the parabolic; M'Nicholl insisted that
it was the hyperbolic. Their tempers were not improved by the severe cold, and both became
rather excited in the dispute. They drew so many lines on the table, and crossed them so often
with others, that nothing was left at last but a great blot. They covered bits of paper with
x's and y's, which they read out like so many classic passages, shouting them, declaiming them,
drawing attention to the strong points by gesticulation so forcible and voice so loud that
neither of the disputants could hear a word that the other said. Possibly the very great difference
in temperature between the external air in contact with their skin and the blood coursing through
their veins, had given rise to magnetic currents as potential in their effects as a superabundant
supply of oxygen. At all events, the language they soon began to employ in the enforcement
of their arguments fairly made the Frenchman's hair stand on end.

"You probably forget the important difference between a directrix and an axis," hotly observed
Barbican.

"I know what an abscissa is, any how!" cried the Captain. "Can you say as much?"

"Did you ever understand what is meant by a double ordinate?" asked Barbican, trying to keep cool.

"More than you ever did about a transverse and a conjugate!" replied the Captain, with much
asperity.

"Any one not convinced at a glance that this eccentricity is equal to unity, must be blind
as a bat!" exclaimed Barbican, fast losing his ordinary urbanity.

"Less than unity, you mean! If you want spectacles, here are mine!" shouted the Captain, angrily
tearing them off and offering them to his adversary.

"Dear boys!" interposed Ardan--

--"The eccentricity is equal to unity!" cried Barbican.

--"The eccentricity is less than unity!" screamed M'Nicholl.

"Talking of eccentricity--" put in Ardan.

--"Therefore it's a parabola, and must be!" cried Barbican, triumphantly.

--"Therefore it's hyperbola and nothing shorter!" was the Captain's quite as confident reply.

"For gracious sake!--" resumed Ardan.

"Then produce your asymptote!" exclaimed Barbican, with an angry sneer.

"Let us see the symmetrical point!" roared the Captain, quite savagely.

"Dear boys! old fellows!--" cried Ardan, as loud as his lungs would let him.

"It's useless to argue with a Mississippi steamboat Captain," ejaculated Barbican; "he never
gives in till he blows up!"

"Never try to convince a Yankee schoolmaster," replied M'Nicholl; "he has one book by heart
and don't believe in any other!"

"Here, friend Michael, get me a cord, won't you? It's the only way to convince him!" cried
Barbican, hastily turning to the Frenchman.

"Hand me over that ruler, Ardan!" yelled the Captain. "The heavy one! It's the only way now
left to bring him to reason!"

"Look here, Barbican and M'Nicholl!" cried Ardan, at last making himself heard, and keeping
a tight hold both on the cord and the ruler. "This thing has gone far enough! Come. Stop your
talk, and answer me a few questions. What do you want of this cord, Barbican?"

"To describe a parabolic curve!"

"And what are you going to do with the ruler, M'Nicholl!"

"To help draw a true hyperbola!"

"Promise me, Barbican, that you're not going to lasso the Captain!"

"Lasso the Captain! Ha! ha! ha!"

"You promise, M'Nicholl, that you're not going to brain the President!"

"I brain the President! Ho! ho! ho!"

"I want merely to convince him that it is a parabola!"

"I only want to make it clear as day that it is hyperbola!"

"Does it make any real difference whether it is one or the other?" yelled Ardan.

"The greatest possible difference--in the Eye of Science."

"A radical and incontrovertible difference--in the Eye of Science!"

"Oh! Hang the Eye of Science--will either curve take us to the Moon?"

"No!"

"Will either take us back to the Earth?"

"No!"

"Will either take us anywhere that you know of?"

"No!"

"Why not?"

"Because they are both open curves, and therefore can never end!"

"Is it of the slightest possible importance which of the two curves controls the Projectile?"

"Not the slightest--except in the Eye of Science!"

"Then let the Eye of Science and her parabolas and hyperbolas, and conjugates, and asymptotes,
and the rest of the confounded nonsensical farrago, all go to pot! What's the use of bothering
your heads about them here! Have you not enough to trouble you otherwise? A nice pair of scientists
you are? 'Stanislow' scientists, probably. Do real scientists lose their tempers for a trifle?
Am I ever to see my ideal of a true scientific man in the flesh? Barbican came very near realizing
my idea perfectly; but I see that Science just has as little effect as Culture in driving the
Old Adam out of us! The idea of the only simpleton in the lot having to lecture the others
on propriety of deportment! I thought they were going to tear each other's eyes out! Ha! Ha!
Ha! It's impayable! Give me that cord, Michael! Hand me the heavy ruler, Ardan! It's the only
way to bring him to reason! Ho! Ho! Ho! It's too good! I shall never get over it!" and he laughed
till his sides ached and his cheeks streamed.

His laughter was so contagious, and his merriment so genuine, that there was really no resisting
it, and the next few minutes witnessed nothing but laughing, and handshaking and rib-punching
in the Projectile--though Heaven knows there was very little for the poor fellows to be merry
about. As they could neither reach the Moon nor return to the Earth, what was to befall them?
The immediate outlook was the very reverse of exhilarating. If they did not die of hunger,
if they did not die of thirst, the reason would simply be that, in a few days, as soon as their
gas was exhausted, they would die for want of air, unless indeed the icy cold had killed them
beforehand!

By this time, in fact, the temperature had become so exceedingly cold that a further encroachment
on their little stock of gas could be put off no longer. The light, of course, they could manage
to do without; but a little heat was absolutely necessary to prevent them from freezing to
death. Fortunately, however, the caloric developed by the Reiset and Regnault process for purifying
the air, raised the internal temperature of the Projectile a little, so that, with an expenditure
of gas much less than they had expected, our travellers were able to maintain it at a degree
capable of sustaining human life.

By this time, also, all observations through the windows had become exceedingly difficult.
The internal moisture condensed so thick and congealed so hard on the glass that nothing short
of continued friction could keep up its transparency. But this friction, however laborious
they might regard it at other times, they thought very little of just now, when observation
had become far more interesting and important than ever.

If the Moon had any atmosphere, our travellers were near enough now to strike any meteor that
might be rushing through it. If the Projectile itself were floating in it, as was possible,
would not such a good conductor of sound convey to their ears the reflexion of some lunar echo,
the roar of some storm raging among the mountains, the rattling of some plunging avalanche,
or the detonations of some eructating volcano? And suppose some lunar Etna or Vesuvius was
flashing out its fires, was it not even possible that their eye could catch a glimpse of the
lurid gleam? One or two facts of this kind, well attested, would singularly elucidate the vexatious
question of a lunar atmosphere, which is still so far from being decided. Full of such thoughts
and intensely interested in them, Barbican, M'Nicholl and Ardan, patient as astronomers at
a transit of Venus, watched steadily at their windows, and allowed nothing worth noticing to
escape their searching gaze.

Ardan's patience first gave out. He showed it by an observation natural enough, for that matter,
to a mind unaccustomed to long stretches of careful thought:

"This darkness is absolutely killing! If we ever take this trip again, it must be about the
time of the New Moon!"

"There I agree with you, Ardan," observed the Captain. "That would be just the time to start.
The Moon herself, I grant, would be lost in the solar rays and therefore invisible all the
time of our trip, but in compensation, we should have the Full Earth in full view. Besides--and
this is your chief point, no doubt, Ardan--if we should happen to be drawn round the Moon,
just as we are at the present moment, we should enjoy the inestimable advantage of beholding
her invisible side magnificently illuminated!"

"My idea exactly, Captain," said Ardan. "What is your opinion on this point, Barbican?"

"My opinion is as follows:" answered Barbican, gravely. "If we ever repeat this journey, we
shall start precisely at the same time and under precisely the same circumstances. You forget
that our only object is to reach the Moon. Now suppose we had really landed there, as we expected
to do yesterday, would it not have been much more agreeable to behold the lunar continents
enjoying the full light of day than to find them plunged in the dismal obscurity of night?
Would not our first installation of discovery have been under circumstances decidedly extremely
favorable? Your silence shows that you agree with me. As to the invisible side, once landed,
we should have the power to visit it when we pleased, and therefore we could always choose
whatever time would best suit our purpose. Therefore, if we wanted to land in the Moon, the
period of the Full Moon was the best period to select. The period was well chosen, the time
was well calculated, the force was well applied, the Projectile was well aimed, but missing
our way spoiled everything."

"That's sound logic, no doubt," said Ardan; "still I can't help thinking that all for want
of a little light we are losing, probably forever, a splendid opportunity of seeing the Moon's
invisible side. How about the other planets, Barbican? Do you think that their inhabitants
are as ignorant regarding their satellites as we are regarding ours?"

"On that subject," observed M'Nicholl, "I could venture an answer myself, though, of course,
without pretending to speak dogmatically on any such open question. The satellites of the other
planets, by their comparative proximity, must be much easier to study than our Moon. The Saturnians,
the Uranians, the Jovians, cannot have had very serious difficulty in effecting some communication
with their satellites. Jupiter's four moons, for instance, though on an average actually 2-1/2
times farther from their planet's centre than the Moon is from us, are comparatively four times
nearer to him on account of his radius being eleven times greater than the Earth's. With Saturn's
eight moons, the case is almost precisely similar. Their average distance is nearly three times
greater than that of our Moon; but as Saturn's diameter is about 9 times greater than the Earth's,
his bodyguards are really between 3 and 4 times nearer to their principal than ours is to us.
As to Uranus, his first satellite, Ariel, half as far from him as our Moon is from the Earth,
is comparatively, though not actually, eight times nearer."

"Therefore," said Barbican, now taking up the subject, "an experiment analogous to ours, starting
from either of these three planets, would have encountered fewer difficulties. But the whole
question resolves itself into this. If the Jovians and the rest have been able to quit their
planets, they have probably succeeded in discovering the invisible sides of their satellites.
But if they have not been able to do so, why, they're not a bit wiser than ourselves--But what's
the matter with the Projectile? It's certainly shifting!"

Shifting it certainly was. While the path it described as it swung blindly through the darkness,
could not be laid down by any chart for want of a starting point, Barbican and his companions
soon became aware of a decided modification of its relative position with regard to the Moon's
surface. Instead of its side, as heretofore, it now presented its base to the Moon's disc,
and its axis had become rigidly vertical to the lunar horizon. Of this new feature in their
journey, Barbican had assured himself by the most undoubted proof towards four o'clock in the
morning. What was the cause? Gravity, of course. The heavier portion of the Projectile gravitated
towards the Moon's centre exactly as if they were falling towards her surface.

But were they falling? Were they at last, contrary to all expectations, about to reach the
goal that they had been so ardently wishing for? No! A sight-point, just discovered by M'Nicholl,
very soon convinced Barbican that the Projectile was as far as ever from approaching the Moon,
but was moving around it in a curve pretty near concentric.

M'Nicholl's discovery, a luminous gleam flickering on the distant verge of the black disc,
at once engrossed the complete attention of our travellers and set them to divining its course.
It could not possibly be confounded with a star. Its glare was reddish, like that of a distant
furnace on a dark night; it kept steadily increasing in size and brightness, thus showing beyond
a doubt how the Projectile was moving--in the direction of the luminous point, and not vertically
falling towards the Moon's surface.

"It's a volcano!" cried the Captain, in great excitement; "a volcano in full blast! An outlet
of the Moon's internal fires! Therefore she can't be a burnt out cinder!"

"It certainly looks like a volcano," replied Barbican, carefully investigating this new and
puzzling phenomenon with his night-glass. "If it is not one, in fact, what can it be?"

"To maintain combustion," commenced Ardan syllogistically and sententiously, "air is necessary.
An undoubted case of combustion lies before us. Therefore, this part of the Moon must have
an atmosphere!"

"Perhaps so," observed Barbican, "but not necessarily so. The volcano, by decomposing certain
substances, gunpowder for instance, may be able to furnish its own oxygen, and thus explode
in a vacuum. That blaze, in fact, seems to me to possess the intensity and the blinding glare
of objects burning in pure oxygen. Let us therefore be not over hasty in jumping at the conclusion
of the existence of a lunar atmosphere."

This fire mountain was situated, according to the most plausible conjecture, somewhere in the
neighborhood of the 45th degree, south latitude, of the Moon's invisible side. For a little
while the travellers indulged the fond hope that they were directly approaching it, but, to
their great disappointment, the path described by the Projectile lay in a different direction.
Its nature therefore they had no opportunity of ascertaining. It began to disappear behind
the dark horizon within less than half an hour after the time that M'Nicholl had signalled
it. Still, the fact of the uncontested existence of such a phenomenon was a grand one, and
of considerable importance in selenographic investigations. It proved that heat had not altogether
disappeared from the lunar world; and the existence of heat once settled, who can say positively
that the vegetable kingdom and even the animal kingdom have not likewise resisted so far every
influence tending to destroy them? If terrestrial astronomers could only be convinced, by undoubted
evidence, of the existence of this active volcano on the Moon's surface, they would certainly
admit of very considerable modifications in the present doubts regarding her inhabitability.

Thoughts of this kind continued to occupy the minds of our travellers even for some time after
the little spark of light had been extinguished in the black gloom. But they said very little;
even Ardan was silent, and continued to look out of the window. Barbican surrendered himself
up to a reverie regarding the mysterious destinies of the lunar world. Was its present condition
a foreshadowing of what our Earth is to become? M'Nicholl, too, was lost in speculation. Was
the Moon older or younger than the Earth in the order of Creation? Had she ever been a beautiful
world of life, and color, and magnificent variety? If so, had her inhabitants--

Great Mercy, what a cry from Ardan! It sounded human, so seldom do we hear a shriek so expressive
at once of surprise and horror and even terror! It brought back his startled companions to
their senses in a second. Nor did they ask him for the cause of his alarm. It was only too
clear. Right in their very path, a blazing ball of fire had suddenly risen up before their
eyes, the pitchy darkness all round it rendering its glare still more blinding. Its phosphoric
coruscation filled the Projectile with white streams of lurid light, tinging the contents with
a pallor indescribably ghastly. The travellers' faces in particular, gleamed with that peculiar
livid and cadaverous tinge, blue and yellow, which magicians so readily produce by burning
table salt in alcohol.

"Sacré!" cried Ardan who always spoke his own language when much excited. "What a pair of beauties
you are! Say, Barbican! What thundering thing is coming at us now?"

"Another bolide," answered Barbican, his eye as calm as ever, though a faint tremor was quite
perceptible in his voice.

"A bolide? Burning in vacuo? You are joking!"

"I was never more in earnest," was the President's quiet reply, as he looked through his closed
fingers.

He knew exactly what he was saying. The dazzling glitter did not deceive him. Such a meteor
seen from the Earth could not appear much brighter than the Full Moon, but here in the midst
of the black ether and unsoftened by the veil of the atmosphere, it was absolutely blinding.
These wandering bodies carry in themselves the principle of their incandescence. Oxygen is
by no means necessary for their combustion. Some of them indeed often take fire as they rush
through the layers of our atmosphere, and generally burn out before they strike the Earth.
But others, on the contrary, and the greater number too, follow a track through space far more
distant from the Earth than the fifty miles supposed to limit our atmosphere. In October, 1844,
one of these meteors had appeared in the sky at an altitude calculated to be at least 320 miles;
and in August, 1841, another had vanished when it had reached the height of 450 miles. A few
even of those seen from the Earth must have been several miles in diameter. The velocity with
which some of them have been calculated to move, from east to west, in a direction contrary
to that of the Earth, is astounding enough to exceed belief--about fifty miles in a second.
Our Earth does not move quite 20 miles in a second, though it goes a thousand times quicker
than the fastest locomotive.

Barbican calculated like lightning that the present object of their alarm was only about 250
miles distant from them, and could not be less than a mile and a quarter in diameter. It was
coming on at the rate of more than a mile a second or about 75 miles a minute. It lay right
in the path of the Projectile, and in a very few seconds indeed a terrible collision was inevitable.
The enormous rate at which it grew in size, showed the terrible velocity at which it was approaching.

You can hardly imagine the situation of our poor travellers at the sight of this frightful
apparition. I shall certainly not attempt to describe it. In spite of their singular courage,
wonderful coolness, extraordinary fortitude, they were now breathless, motionless, almost helpless;
their muscles were tightened to their utmost tension; their eyes stared out of their sockets;
their faces were petrified with horror. No wonder. Their Projectile, whose course they were
powerless as children to guide, was making straight for this fiery mass, whose glare in a few
seconds had become more blinding than the open vent of a reverberating furnace. Their own Projectile
was carrying them headlong into a bottomless abyss of fire!

Still, even in this moment of horror, their presence of mind, or at least their consciousness,
never abandoned them. Barbican had grasped each of his friends by the hand, and all three tried
as well as they could to watch through half-closed eyelids the white-hot asteroid's rapid approach.
They could utter no word, they could breathe no prayer. They gave themselves up for lost--in
the agony of terror that partially interrupted the ordinary functions of their brains, this
was absolutely all they could do! Hardly three minutes had elapsed since Ardan had caught the
first glimpse of it--three ages of agony! Now it was on them! In a second--in less than a second,
the terrible fireball had burst like a shell! Thousands of glittering fragments were flying
around them in all directions--but with no more noise than is made by so many light flakes
of thistle-down floating about some warm afternoon in summer. The blinding, blasting steely
white glare of the explosion almost bereft the travellers of the use of their eyesight forever,
but no more report reached their ears than if it had taken place at the bottom of the Gulf
of Mexico. In an atmosphere like ours, such a crash would have burst the ear-membranes of ten
thousand elephants!

In the middle of the commotion another loud cry was suddenly heard. It was the Captain who
called this time. His companions rushed to his window and all looked out together in the same
direction.

What a sight met their eyes! What pen can describe it? What pencil can reproduce the magnificence
of its coloring? It was a Vesuvius at his best and wildest, at the moment just after the old
cone has fallen in. Millions of luminous fragments streaked the sky with their blazing fires.
All sizes and shapes of light, all colors and shades of colors, were inextricably mingled together.
Irradiations in gold, scintillations in crimson, splendors in emerald, lucidities in ultramarine--a
dazzling girandola of every tint and of every hue. Of the enormous fireball, an instant ago
such an object of dread, nothing now remained but these glittering pieces, shooting about in
all directions, each one an asteroid in its turn. Some flew out straight and gleaming like
a steel sword; others rushed here and there irregularly like chips struck off a red-hot rock;
and others left long trails of glittering cosmical dust behind them like the nebulous tail
of Donati's comet.

These incandescent blocks crossed each other, struck each other, crushed each other into still
smaller fragments, one of which, grazing the Projectile, jarred it so violently that the very
window at which the travellers were standing, was cracked by the shock. Our friends felt, in
fact, as if they were the objective point at which endless volleys of blazing shells were aimed,
any of them powerful enough, if it only hit them fair, to make as short work of the Projectile
as you could of an egg-shell. They had many hairbreadth escapes, but fortunately the cracking
of the glass proved to be the only serious damage of which they could complain.

This extraordinary illumination lasted altogether only a few seconds; every one of its details
was of a most singular and exciting nature--but one of its greatest wonders was yet to come.
The ether, saturated with luminous matter, developed an intensity of blazing brightness unequalled
by the lime light, the magnesium light, the electric light, or any other dazzling source of
illumination with which we are acquainted on earth. It flashed out of these asteroids in all
directions, and downwards, of course, as well as elsewhere. At one particular instant, it was
so very vivid that Ardan, who happened to be looking downwards, cried out, as if in transport:

"Oh!! The Moon! Visible at last!"

And the three companions, thrilling with indescribable emotion, shot a hasty glance through
the openings of the coruscating field beneath them. Did they really catch a glimpse of the
mysterious invisible disc that the eye of man had never before lit upon? For a second or so
they gazed with enraptured fascination at all they could see. What did they see, what could
they see at a distance so uncertain that Barbican has never been able even to guess at it?
Not much. Ardan was reminded of the night he had stood on the battlements of Dover Castle,
a few years before, when the fitful flashes of a thunder storm gave him occasional and very
uncertain glimpses of the French coast at the opposite side of the strait. Misty strips long
and narrow, extending over one portion of the disc--probably cloud-scuds sustained by a highly
rarefied atmosphere--permitted only a very dreamy idea of lofty mountains stretching beneath
them in shapeless proportions, of smaller reliefs, circuses, yawning craters, and the other
capricious, sponge-like formations so common on the visible side. Elsewhere the watchers became
aware for an instant of immense spaces, certainly not arid plains, but seas, real oceans, vast
and calm, reflecting from their placid depths the dazzling fireworks of the weird and wildly
flashing meteors. Farther on, but very darkly as if behind a screen, shadowy continents revealed
themselves, their surfaces flecked with black cloudy masses, probably great forests, with here
and there a--

Nothing more! In less than a second the illumination had come to an end, involving everything
in the Moon's direction once more in pitchy darkness.

But had the impression made on the travellers' eyes been a mere vision or the result of a reality?
an optical delusion or the shadow of a solid fact? Could an observation so rapid, so fleeting,
so superficial, be really regarded as a genuine scientific affirmation? Could such a feeble
glimmer of the invisible disc justify them in pronouncing a decided opinion on the inhabitability
of the Moon? To such questions as these, rising spontaneously and simultaneously in the minds
of our travellers, they could not reply at the moment; they could not reply to them long afterwards;
even to this day they can give them no satisfactory answer. All they could do at the moment,
they did. To every sight and sound they kept their eyes and ears open, and, by observing the
most perfect silence, they sought to render their impressions too vivid to admit of deception.

There was now, however, nothing to be heard, and very little more to be seen. The few coruscations
that flashed over the sky, gradually became fewer and dimmer; the asteroids sought paths further
and further apart, and finally disappeared altogether. The ether resumed its original blackness.
The stars, eclipsed for a moment, blazed out again on the firmament, and the invisible disc,
that had flashed into view for an instant, once more relapsed forever into the impenetrable
depths of night.

CHAPTER XVI.

THE SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE.

Exceedingly narrow and exceedingly fortunate had been the escape of the Projectile. And from
a danger too the most unlikely and the most unexpected. Who would have ever dreamed of even
the possibility of such an encounter? And was all danger over? The sight of one of these erratic
bolides certainly justified the gravest apprehensions of our travellers regarding the existence
of others. Worse than the sunken reefs of the Southern Seas or the snags of the Mississippi,
how could the Projectile be expected to avoid them? Drifting along blindly through the boundless
ethereal ocean, her inmates, even if they saw the danger, were totally powerless to turn her
aside. Like a ship without a rudder, like a runaway horse, like a collapsed balloon, like an
iceberg in an Atlantic storm, like a boat in the Niagara rapids, she moved on sullenly, recklessly,
mechanically, mayhap into the very jaws of the most frightful danger, the bright intelligences
within no more able to modify her motions even by a finger's breadth than they were able to
affect Mercury's movements around the Sun.

But did our friends complain of the new perils now looming up before them? They never thought
of such a thing. On the contrary, they only considered themselves (after the lapse of a few
minutes to calm their nerves) extremely lucky in having witnessed this fresh glory of exuberant
nature, this transcendent display of fireworks which not only cast into absolute insignificance
anything of the kind they had ever seen on Earth, but had actually enabled them by its dazzling
illumination to gaze for a second or two at the Moon's mysterious invisible disc. This glorious
momentary glance, worth a whole lifetime of ordinary existence, had revealed to mortal ken
her continents, her oceans, her forests. But did it also convince them of the existence of
an atmosphere on her surface whose vivifying molecules would render life possible? This question
they had again to leave unanswered--it will hardly ever be answered in a way quite satisfactory
to human curiosity. Still, infinite was their satisfaction at having hovered even for an instant
on the very verge of such a great problem's solution.

It was now half-past three in the afternoon. The Projectile still pursued its curving but otherwise
unknown path over the Moon's invisible face. Had this path been disturbed by that dangerous
meteor? There was every reason to fear so--though, disturbance or no disturbance, the curve
it described should still be one strictly in accordance with the laws of Mechanical Philosophy.
Whether it was a parabola or a hyperbola, however, or whether it was disturbed or not, made
very little difference as, in any case, the Projectile was bound to quit pretty soon the cone
of the shadow, at a point directly opposite to where it had entered it. This cone could not
possibly be of very great extent, considering the very slight ratio borne by the Moon's diameter
when compared with the Sun's. Still, to all appearances, the Projectile seemed to be quite
as deeply immersed in the shadow as ever, and there was apparently not the slightest sign of
such a state of things coming soon to an end. At what rate was the Projectile now moving? Hard
to say, but certainly not slowly, certainly rapidly enough to be out of the shadow by this
time, if describing a curve rigidly parabolic. Was the curve therefore not parabolic? Another
puzzling problem and sadly bewildering to poor Barbican, who had now almost lost his reason
by attempting to clear up questions that were proving altogether too profound for his overworked
brains.

Not that he ever thought of taking rest. Not that his companions thought of taking rest. Far
from it. With senses as high-strung as ever, they still watched carefully for every new fact,
every unexpected incident that might throw some light on the sidereal investigations. Even
their dinner, or what was called so, consisted of only a few bits of bread and meat, distributed
by Ardan at five o'clock, and swallowed mechanically. They did not even turn on the gas full
head to see what they were eating; each man stood solidly at his window, the glass of which
they had enough to do in keeping free from the rapidly condensing moisture.

At about half-past five, however, M'Nicholl, who had been gazing for some time with his telescope
in a particular direction, called the attention of his companions to some bright specks of
light barely discernible in that part of the horizon towards which the Projectile was evidently
moving. His words were hardly uttered when his companions announced the same discovery. They
could soon all see the glittering specks not only becoming more and more numerous, but also
gradually assuming the shape of an extremely slender, but extremely brilliant crescent. Rapidly
more brilliant and more decided in shape the profile gradually grew, till it soon resembled
the first faint sketch of the New Moon that we catch of evenings in the western sky, or rather
the first glimpse we get of her limb as it slowly moves out of eclipse. But it was inconceivably
brighter than either, and was furthermore strangely relieved by the pitchy blackness both of
sky and Moon. In fact, it soon became so brilliant as to dispel in a moment all doubt as to
its particular nature. No meteor could present such a perfect shape; no volcano, such dazzling
splendor.

"The Sun!" cried Barbican.

"The Sun?" asked M'Nicholl and Ardan in some astonishment.

"Yes, dear friends; it is the Sun himself that you now see; these summits that you behold him
gilding are the mountains that lie on the Moon's southern rim. We are rapidly nearing her south
pole."

"After doubling her north pole!" cried Ardan; "why, we must be circumnavigating her!"

"Exactly; sailing all around her."

"Hurrah! Then we're all right at last! There's nothing more to fear from your hyperbolas or
parabolas or any other of your open curves!"

"Nothing more, certainly, from an open curve, but every thing from a closed one."

"A closed curve! What is it called? And what is the trouble?"

"An eclipse it is called; and the trouble is that, instead of flying off into the boundless
regions of space, our Projectile will probably describe an elliptical orbit around the Moon--"

--"What!" cried M'Nicholl, in amazement, "and be her satellite for ever!"

"All right and proper," said Ardan; "why shouldn't she have one of her own?"

"Only, my dear friend," said Barbican to Ardan, "this change of curve involves no change in
the doom of the Projectile. We are as infallibly lost by an ellipse as by a parabola."

"Well, there was one thing I never could reconcile myself to in the whole arrangement," replied
Ardan cheerfully; "and that was destruction by an open curve. Safe from that, I could say,
'Fate, do your worst!' Besides, I don't believe in the infallibility of your ellipsic. It may
prove just as unreliable as the hyperbola. And it is no harm to hope that it may!"

From present appearances there was very little to justify Ardan's hope. Barbican's theory of
the elliptic orbit was unfortunately too well grounded to allow a single reasonable doubt to
be expressed regarding the Projectile's fate. It was to gravitate for ever around the Moon--a
sub-satellite. It was a new born individual in the astral universe, a microcosm, a little world
in itself, containing, however, only three inhabitants and even these destined to perish pretty
soon for want of air. Our travellers, therefore, had no particular reason for rejoicing over
the new destiny reserved for the Projectile in obedience to the inexorable laws of the centripetal
and centrifugal forces. They were soon, it is true, to have the opportunity of beholding once
more the illuminated face of the Moon. They might even live long enough to catch a last glimpse
of the distant Earth bathed in the glory of the solar rays. They might even have strength enough
left to be able to chant one solemn final eternal adieu to their dear old Mother World, upon
whose features their mortal eyes should never again rest in love and longing! Then, what was
their Projectile to become? An inert, lifeless, extinct mass, not a particle better than the
most defunct asteroid that wanders blindly through the fields of ether. A gloomy fate to look
forward to. Yet, instead of grieving over the inevitable, our bold travellers actually felt
thrilled with delight at the prospect of even a momentary deliverance from those gloomy depths
of darkness and of once more finding themselves, even if only for a few hours, in the cheerful
precincts illuminated by the genial light of the blessed Sun!

The ring of light, in the meantime, becoming brighter and brighter, Barbican was not long in
discovering and pointing out to his companions the different mountains that lay around the
Moon's south pole.

"There is Leibnitz on your right," said he, "and on your left you can easily see the peaks
of Doerfel. Belonging rather to the Moon's dark side than to her Earth side, they are visible
to terrestrial astronomers only when she is in her highest northern latitudes. Those faint
peaks beyond them that you can catch with such difficulty must be those of Newton and Curtius."

"How in the world can you tell?" asked Ardan.

"They are the highest mountains in the circumpolar regions," replied Barbican. "They have been
measured with the greatest care; Newton is 23,000 feet high."

"More or less!" laughed Ardan. "What Delphic oracle says so?"

"Dear friend," replied Barbican quietly, "the visible mountains of the Moon have been measured
so carefully and so accurately that I should hardly hesitate in affirming their altitude to
be as well known as that of Mont Blanc, or, at least, as those of the chief peaks in the Himalayahs
or the Rocky Mountain Range."

"I should like to know how people set about it," observed Ardan incredulously.

"There are several well known methods of approaching this problem," replied Barbican; "and
as these methods, though founded on different principles, bring us constantly to the same result,
we may pretty safely conclude that our calculations are right. We have no time, just now to
draw diagrams, but, if I express myself clearly, you will no doubt easily catch the general
principle."

"Go ahead!" answered Ardan. "Anything but Algebra."

"We want no Algebra now," said Barbican, "It can't enable us to find principles, though it
certainly enables us to apply them. Well. The Sun at a certain altitude shines on one side
of a mountain and flings a shadow on the other. The length of this shadow is easily found by
means of a telescope, whose object glass is provided with a micrometer. This consists simply
of two parallel spider threads, one of which is stationary and the other movable. The Moon's
real diameter being known and occupying a certain space on the object glass, the exact space
occupied by the shadow can be easily ascertained by means of the movable thread. This space,
compared with the Moon's space, will give us the length of the shadow. Now, as under the same
circumstances a certain height can cast only a certain shadow, of course a knowledge of the
one must give you that of the other, and vice versa. This method, stated roughly, was that
followed by Galileo, and, in our own day, by Beer and Maedler, with extraordinary success."

"I certainly see some sense in this method," said Ardan, "if they took extraordinary pains
to observe correctly. The least carelessness would set them wrong, not only by feet but by
miles. We have time enough, however, to listen to another method before we get into the full
blaze of the glorious old Sol."

"The other method," interrupted M'Nicholl laying down his telescope to rest his eyes, and now
joining in the conversation to give himself something to do, "is called that of the tangent
rays. A solar ray, barely passing the edge of the Moon's surface, is caught on the peak of
a mountain the rest of which lies in shadow. The distance between this starry peak and the
line separating the light from the darkness, we measure carefully by means of our telescope.
Then--"

"I see it at a glance!" interrupted Ardan with lighting eye; "the ray, being a tangent, of
course makes right angles with the radius, which is known: consequently we have two sides and
one angle--quite enough to find the other parts of the triangle. Very ingenious--but now, that
I think of it--is not this method absolutely impracticable for every mountain except those
in the immediate neighborhood of the light and shadow line?"

"That's a defect easily remedied by patience," explained Barbican--the Captain, who did not
like being interrupted, having withdrawn to his telescope--"As this line is continually changing,
in course of time all the mountains must come near it. A third method--to measure the mountain
profile directly by means of the micrometer--is evidently applicable only to altitudes lying
exactly on the lunar rim."

"That is clear enough," said Ardan, "and another point is also very clear. In Full Moon no
measurement is possible. When no shadows are made, none can be measured. Measurements, right
or wrong, are possible only when the solar rays strike the Moon's surface obliquely with regard
to the observer. Am I right, Signor Barbicani, maestro illustrissimo?"

"Perfectly right," replied Barbican. "You are an apt pupil."

"Say that again," said Ardan. "I want Mac to hear it."

Barbican humored him by repeating the observation, but M'Nicholl would only notice it by a
grunt of doubtful meaning.

"Was Galileo tolerably successful in his calculations?" asked Ardan, resuming the conversation.

Before answering this question, Barbican unrolled the map of the Moon, which a faint light
like that of day-break now enabled him to examine. He then went on: "Galileo was wonderfully
successful--considering that the telescope which he employed was a poor instrument of his own
construction, magnifying only thirty times. He gave the lunar mountains a height of about 26,000
feet--an altitude cut down by Hevelius, but almost doubled by Riccioli. Herschel was the first
to come pretty close to the truth, but Beer and Maedler, whose Mappa Selenographica now lies
before us, have left really nothing more to be done for lunar astronomy--except, of course,
to pay a personal visit to the Moon--which we have tried to do, but I fear with a very poor
prospect of success."

"Cheer up! cheer up!" cried Ardan. "It's not all over yet by long odds. Who can say what is
still in store for us? Another bolide may shunt us off our ellipse and even send us to the
Moon's surface."

Then seeing Barbican shake his head ominously and his countenance become more and more depressed,
this true friend tried to brighten him up a bit by feigning to take deep interest in a subject
that to him was absolutely the driest in the world.

"Meer and Baedler--I mean Beer and Maedler," he went on, "must have measured at least forty
or fifty mountains to their satisfaction."

"Forty or fifty!" exclaimed Barbican. "They measured no fewer than a thousand and ninety-five
lunar mountains and crater summits with a perfect success. Six of these reach an altitude of
upwards of 18,000 feet, and twenty-two are more than 15,000 feet high."

"Which is the highest in the lot?" asked Ardan, keenly relishing Barbican's earnestness.

"Doerfel in the southern hemisphere, the peak of which I have just pointed out, is the highest
of the lunar mountains so far measured," replied Barbican. "It is nearly 25,000 feet high."

"Indeed! Five thousand feet lower than Mount Everest--still for a lunar mountain, it is quite
a respectable altitude."

"Respectable! Why it's an enormous altitude, my dear friend, if you compare it with the Moon's
diameter. The Earth's diameter being more than 3-1/2 times greater than the Moon's, if the
Earth's mountains bore the same ratio to those of the Moon, Everest should be more than sixteen
miles high, whereas it is not quite six."

"How do the general heights of the Himalayahs compare with those of the highest lunar mountains?"
asked Ardan, wondering what would be his next question.

"Fifteen peaks in the eastern or higher division of the Himalayahs, are higher than the loftiest
lunar peaks," replied Barbican. "Even in the western, or lower section of the Himalayahs, some
of the peaks exceed Doerfel."

"Which are the chief lunar mountains that exceed Mont Blanc in altitude?" asked Ardan, bravely
suppressing a yawn.

"The following dozen, ranged, if my memory does not fail me, in the exact order of their respective
heights;" replied Barbican, never wearied in answering such questions: "Newton, Curtius, Casatus,
Rheita, Short, Huyghens, Biancanus, Tycho, Kircher, Clavius, Endymion, and Catharina."

"Now those not quite up to Mont Blanc?" asked Ardan, hardly knowing what to say.

"Here they are, about half a dozen of them: Moretus, Theophilus, Harpalus, Eratosthenes, Werner,
and Piccolomini," answered Barbican as ready as a schoolboy reciting his lesson, and pointing
them out on the map as quickly as a compositor distributing his type.

"The next in rank?" asked Ardan, astounded at his friend's wonderful memory.

"The next in rank," replied Barbican promptly, "are those about the size of the Matterhorn,
that is to say about 2-3/4 miles in height. They are Macrobius, Delambre, and Conon. Come,"
he added, seeing Ardan hesitating and at a loss what other question to ask, "don't you want
to know what lunar mountains are about the same height as the Peak of Teneriffe? or as Ætna?
or as Mount Washington? You need not be afraid of puzzling me. I studied up the subject thoroughly,
and therefore know all about it."

"Oh! I could listen to you with delight all day long!" cried Ardan, enthusiastically, though
with some embarrassment, for he felt a twinge of conscience in acting so falsely towards his
beloved friend. "The fact is," he went on, "such a rational conversation as the present, on
such an absorbing subject, with such a perfect master--"

"The Sun!" cried M'Nicholl starting up and cheering. "He's cleared the disc completely, and
he's now himself again! Long life to him! Hurrah!"

"Hurrah!" cried the others quite as enthusiastically (Ardan did not seem a bit desirous to
finish his sentence).

They tossed their maps aside and hastened to the window.

CHAPTER XVII.

TYCHO.

It was now exactly six o'clock in the evening. The Sun, completely clear of all contact with
the lunar disc, steeped the whole Projectile in his golden rays. The travellers, vertically
over the Moon's south pole, were, as Barbican soon ascertained, about 30 miles distant from
it, the exact distance they had been from the north pole--a proof that the elliptic curve still
maintained itself with mathematical rigor.

For some time, the travellers' whole attention was concentrated on the glorious Sun. His light
was inexpressibly cheering; and his heat, soon penetrating the walls of the Projectile, infused
a new and sweet life into their chilled and exhausted frames. The ice rapidly disappeared,
and the windows soon resumed their former perfect transparency.

"Oh! how good the pleasant sunlight is!" cried the Captain, sinking on a seat in a quiet ecstasy
of enjoyment. "How I pity Ardan's poor friends the Selenites during that night so long and
so icy! How impatient they must be to see the Sun back again!"

"Yes," said Ardan, also sitting down the better to bask in the vivifying rays, "his light no
doubt brings them to life and keeps them alive. Without light or heat during all that dreary
winter, they must freeze stiff like the frogs or become torpid like the bears. I can't imagine
how they could get through it otherwise."

"I'm glad we're through it anyhow," observed M'Nicholl. "I may at once acknowledge that I felt
perfectly miserable as long as it lasted. I can now easily understand how the combined cold
and darkness killed Doctor Kane's Esquimaux dogs. It was near killing me. I was so miserable
that at last I could neither talk myself nor bear to hear others talk."

As he pronounced these words in accents at once monotonous and melancholy, Ardan, fully appreciative,
quietly gesticulated in perfect cadence with the rhythm. Then the three men remained completely
silent for several minutes. Buried in recollection, or lost in thought, or magnetized by the
bright Sun, they seemed to be half asleep while steeping their limbs in his vitalizing beams.

Barbican was the first to dissolve the reverie by jumping up. His sharp eye had noticed that
the base of the Projectile, instead of keeping rigidly perpendicular to the lunar surface,
turned away a little, so as to render the elliptical orbit somewhat elongated. This he made
his companions immediately observe, and also called their attention to the fact that from this
point they could easily have seen the Earth had it been Full, but that now, drowned in the
Sun's beams, it was quite invisible. A more attractive spectacle, however, soon engaged their
undivided attention--that of the Moon's southern regions, now brought within about the third
of a mile by their telescopes. Immediately resuming their posts by the windows, they carefully
noted every feature presented by the fantastic panorama that stretched itself out in endless
lengths beneath their wondering eyes.

Mount Leibnitz and Mount Doerfel form two separate groups developed in the regions of the extreme
south. The first extends westwardly from the pole to the 84th parallel; the second, on the
southeastern border, starting from the pole, reaches the neighborhood of the 65th. In the entangled
valleys of their clustered peaks, appeared the dazzling sheets of white, noted by Father Secchi,
but their peculiar nature Barbican could now examine with a greater prospect of certainty than
the illustrious Roman astronomer had ever enjoyed.

"They're beds of snow," he said at last in a decided tone.

"Snow!" exclaimed M'Nicholl.

"Yes, snow, or rather glaciers heavily coated with glittering ice. See how vividly they reflect
the Sun's rays. Consolidated beds of lava could never shine with such dazzling uniformity.
Therefore there must be both water and air on the Moon's surface. Not much--perhaps very little
if you insist on it--but the fact that there is some can now no longer be questioned."

This assertion of Barbican's, made so positively by a man who never decided unless when thoroughly
convinced, was a great triumph for Ardan, who, as the gracious reader doubtless remembers,
had had a famous dispute with M'Nicholl on that very subject at Tampa.[D] His eyes brightened
and a smile of pleasure played around his lips, but, with a great effort at self-restraint,
he kept perfectly silent and would not permit himself even to look in the direction of the
Captain. As for M'Nicholl, he was apparently too much absorbed in Doerfel and Leibnitz to mind
anything else.

These mountains rose from plains of moderate extent, bounded by an indefinite succession of
walled hollows and ring ramparts. They are the only chains met in this region of ridge-brimmed
craters and circles; distinguished by no particular feature, they project a few pointed peaks
here and there, some of which exceed four miles and a half in height. This altitude, however,
foreshortened as it was by the vertical position of the Projectile, could not be noticed just
then, even if correct observation had been permitted by the dazzling surface.

Once more again before the travellers' eyes the Moon's disc revealed itself in all the old
familiar features so characteristic of lunar landscapes--no blending of tones, no softening
of colors, no graduation of shadows, every line glaring in white or black by reason of the
total absence of refracted light. And yet the wonderfully peculiar character of this desolate
world imparted to it a weird attraction as strangely fascinating as ever.

Over this chaotic region the travellers were now sweeping, as if borne on the wings of a storm;
the peaks defiled beneath them; the yawning chasms revealed their ruin-strewn floors; the fissured
cracks untwisted themselves; the ramparts showed all their sides; the mysterious holes presented
their impenetrable depths; the clustered mountain summits and rings rapidly decomposed themselves:
but in a moment again all had become more inextricably entangled than ever. Everything appeared
to be the finished handiwork of volcanic agency, in the utmost purity and highest perfection.
None of the mollifying effects of air or water could here be noticed. No smooth-capped mountains,
no gently winding river channels, no vast prairie-lands of deposited sediment, no traces of
vegetation, no signs of agriculture, no vestiges of a great city. Nothing but vast beds of
glistering lava, now rough like immense piles of scoriae and clinker, now smooth like crystal
mirrors, and reflecting the Sun's rays with the same intolerable glare. Not the faintest speck
of life. A world absolutely and completely dead, fixed, still, motionless--save when a gigantic
land-slide, breaking off the vertical wall of a crater, plunged down into the soundless depths,
with all the fury too of a crashing avalanche, with all the speed of a Niagara, but, in the
total absence of atmosphere, noiseless as a feather, as a snow flake, as a grain of impalpable
dust.

Careful observations, taken by Barbican and repeated by his companions, soon satisfied them
that the ridgy outline of the mountains on the Moon's border, though perhaps due to different
forces from those acting in the centre, still presented a character generally uniform. The
same bulwark-surrounded hollows, the same abrupt projections of surface. Yet a different arrangement,
as Barbican pointed out to his companions, might be naturally expected. In the central portion
of the disc, the Moon's crust, before solidification, must have been subjected to two attractions--that
of the Moon herself and that of the Earth--acting, however, in contrary directions and therefore,
in a certain sense, serving to neutralize each other. Towards the border of her disc, on the
contrary, the terrestrial attraction, having acted in a direction perpendicular to that of
the lunar, should have exerted greater power, and therefore given a different shape to the
general contour. But no remarkable difference had so far been perceived by terrestrial observers;
and none could now be detected by our travellers. Therefore the Moon must have found in herself
alone the principle of her shape and of her superficial development--that is, she owed nothing
to external influences. "Arago was perfectly right, therefore," concluded Barbican, "in the
remarkable opinion to which he gave expression thirty years ago:

'No external action whatever has contributed to the formation of the Moon's diversified surface.'"

"But don't you think, Barbican," asked the Captain, "that every force, internal or external,
that might modify the Moon's shape, has ceased long ago?"

"I am rather inclined to that opinion," said Barbican; "it is not, however, a new one. Descartes
maintained that as the Earth is an extinct Sun, so is the Moon an extinct Earth. My own opinion
at present is that the Moon is now the image of death, but I can't say if she has ever been
the abode of life."

"The abode of life!" cried Ardan, who had great repugnance in accepting the idea that the Moon
was no better than a heap of cinders and ashes; "why, look there! If those are not as neat
a set of the ruins of an abandoned city as ever I saw, I should like to know what they are!"

He pointed to some very remarkable rocky formations in the neighborhood of Short, a ring mountain
rising to an altitude considerably higher than that of Mont Blanc. Even Barbican and M'Nicholl
could detect some regularity and semblance of order in the arrangement of these rocks, but
this, of course, they looked on as a mere freak of nature, like the Lurlei Rock, the Giant's
Causeway, or the Old Man of the Franconia Mountains. Ardan, however, would not accept such
an easy mode of getting rid of a difficulty.

"See the ruins on that bluff," he exclaimed; "those steep sides must have been washed by a
great river in the prehistoric times. That was the fortress. Farther down lay the city. There
are the dismantled ramparts; why, there's the very coping of a portico still intact! Don't
you see three broken pillars lying beside their pedestals? There! a little to the left of those
arches that evidently once bore the pipes of an aqueduct! You don't see them? Well, look a
little to the right, and there is something that you can see! As I'm a living man I have no
difficulty in discerning the gigantic butments of a great bridge that formerly spanned that
immense river!"

Did he really see all this? To this day he affirms stoutly that he did, and even greater wonders
besides. His companions, however, without denying that he had good grounds for his assertion
on this subject or questioning the general accuracy of his observations, content themselves
with saying that the reason why they had failed to discover the wonderful city, was that Ardan's
telescope was of a strange and peculiar construction. Being somewhat short-sighted, he had
had it manufactured expressly for his own use, but it was of such singular power that his companions
could not use it without hurting their eyes.

But, whether the ruins were real or not, the moments were evidently too precious to be lost
in idle discussion. The great city of the Selenites soon disappeared on the remote horizon,
and, what was of far greater importance, the distance of the Projectile from the Moon's disc
began to increase so sensibly that the smaller details of the surface were soon lost in a confused
mass, and it was only the lofty heights, the wide craters, the great ring mountains, and the
vast plains that still continued to give sharp, distinctive outlines.

A little to their left, the travellers could now plainly distinguish one of the most remarkable
of the Moon's craters, Newton, so well known to all lunar astronomers. Its ramparts, forming
a perfect circle, rise to such a height, at least 22,000 feet, as to seem insurmountable.

"You can, no doubt, notice for yourselves," said Barbican, "that the external height of this
mountain is far from being equal to the depth of its crater. The enormous pit, in fact, seems
to be a soundless sea of pitchy black, the bottom of which the Sun's rays have never reached.
There, as Humboldt says, reigns eternal darkness, so absolute that Earth-shine or even Sunlight
is never able to dispel it. Had Michael's friends the old mythologists ever known anything
about it, they would doubtless have made it the entrance to the infernal regions. On the whole
surface of our Earth, there is no mountain even remotely resembling it. It is a perfect type
of the lunar crater. Like most of them, it shows that the peculiar formation of the Moon's
surface is due, first, to the cooling of the lunar crust; secondly, to the cracking from internal
pressure; and, thirdly, to the violent volcanic action in consequence. This must have been
of a far fiercer nature than it has ever been with us. The matter was ejected to a vast height
till great mountains were formed; and still the action went on, until at last the floor of
the crater sank to a depth far lower than the level of the external plain."

"You may be right," said Ardan by way of reply; "as for me, I'm looking out for another city.
But I'm sorry to say that our Projectile is increasing its distance so fast that, even if one
lay at my feet at this moment, I doubt very much if I could see it a bit better than either
you or the Captain."

Newton was soon passed, and the Projectile followed a course that took it directly over the
ring mountain Moretus. A little to the west the travellers could easily distinguish the summits
of Blancanus, 7,000 feet high, and, towards seven o'clock in the evening, they were approaching
the neighborhood of Clavius.

This walled-plain, one of the most remarkable on the Moon, lies 55° S. by 15° E. Its height
is estimated at 16,000 feet, but it is considered to be about a hundred and fifty miles in
diameter. Of this vast crater, the travellers now at a distance of 250 miles, reduced to 2-1/2
by their telescopes, had a magnificent bird's-eye view.

"Our terrestrial volcanoes," said Barbican, "as you can now readily judge for yourselves, are
no more than molehills when compared with those of the Moon. Measure the old craters formed
by the early eruptions of Vesuvius and Ætna, and you will find them little more than three
miles in diameter. The crater of Cantal in central France is only about six miles in width;
the famous valley in Ceylon, called the Crater, though not at all due to volcanic action, is
44 miles across and is considered to be the greatest in the world. But even this is very little
in comparison to the diameter of Clavius lying beneath us at the present moment."

"How much is its diameter?" asked the Captain.

"At least one hundred and forty-two miles," replied Barbican; "it is probably the greatest
in the Moon, but many others measure more than a hundred miles across."

"Dear boys," said Ardan, half to himself, half to the others, "only imagine the delicious state
of things on the surface of the gentle Moon when these craters, brimming over with hissing
lava, were vomiting forth, all at the same time, showers of melted stones, clouds of blinding
smoke, and sheets of blasting flame! What an intensely overpowering spectacle was here presented
once, but now, how are the mighty fallen! Our Moon, as at present beheld, seems to be nothing
more than the skinny spectre left after a brilliant display of fireworks, when the spluttering
crackers, the glittering wheels, the hissing serpents, the revolving suns, and the dazzling
stars, are all 'played out', and nothing remains to tell of the gorgeous spectacle but a few
blackened sticks and half a dozen half burned bits of pasteboard. I should like to hear one
of you trying to explain the cause, the reason, the principle, the philosophy of such tremendous
cataclysms!"

Barbican's only reply was a series of nods, for in truth he had not heard a single word of
Ardan's philosophic explosion. His ears were with his eyes, and these were obstinately bent
on the gigantic ramparts of Clavius, formed of concentric mountain ridges, which were actually
leagues in depth. On the floor of the vast cavity, could be seen hundreds of smaller craters,
mottling it like a skimming dish, and pierced here and there by sharp peaks, one of which could
hardly be less than 15,000 feet high.

All around, the plain was desolate in the extreme. You could not conceive how anything could
be barrener than these serrated outlines, or gloomier than these shattered mountains--until
you looked at the plain that encircled them. Ardan hardly exaggerated when he called it the
scene of a battle fought thousands of years ago but still white with the hideous bones of overthrown
peaks, slaughtered mountains and mutilated precipices!

"This must have been the spot," muttered Barbican to himself, "where the brittle shell of the
cooling sphere, being thicker than usual, offered greater resistance to an eruption of the
red-hot nucleus. Hence these piled up buttresses, and these orderless heaps of consolidated
lava and ejected scoriæ."

The Projectile advanced, but the scene of desolation seemed to remain unchanged. Craters, ring
mountains, pitted plateaus dotted with shapeless wrecks, succeeded each other without interruption.
For level plain, for dark "sea," for smooth plateau, the eye here sought in vain. It was a
Swiss Greenland, an Icelandic Norway, a Sahara of shattered crust studded with countless hills
of glassy lava.

At last, in the very centre of this blistered region, right too at its very culmination, the
travellers came on the brightest and most remarkable mountain of the Moon. In the dazzling
Tycho they found it an easy matter to recognize the famous lunar point, which the world will
for ever designate by the name of the distinguished astronomer of Denmark.

This brilliant luminosity of the southern hemisphere, no one that ever gazes at the Full Moon
in a cloudless sky, can help noticing. Ardan, who had always particularly admired it, now hailed
it as an old friend, and almost exhausted breath, imagination and vocabulary in the epithets
with which he greeted this cynosure of the lunar mountains.

"Hail!" he cried, "thou blazing focus of glittering streaks, thou coruscating nucleus of irradiation,
thou starting point of rays divergent, thou egress of meteoric flashes! Hub of the silver wheel
that ever rolls in silent majesty over the starry plains of Night! Paragon of jewels enchased
in a carcanet of dazzling brilliants! Eye of the universe, beaming with heavenly resplendescence!

"Who shall say what thou art? Diana's nimbus? The golden clasp of her floating robes? The blazing
head of the great bolt that rivets the lunar hemispheres in union inseverable? Or cans't thou
have been some errant bolide, which missing its way, butted blindly against the lunar face,
and there stuck fast, like a Minie ball mashed against a cast-iron target? Alas! nobody knows.
Not even Barbican is able to penetrate thy mystery. But one thing I know. Thy dazzling glare
so sore my eyes hath made that longer on thy light to gaze I do not dare. Captain, have you
any smoked glass?"

In spite of this anti-climax, Ardan's companions could hardly consider his utterings either
as ridiculous or over enthusiastic. They could easily excuse his excitement on the subject.
And so could we, if we only remember that Tycho, though nearly a quarter of a million miles
distant, is such a luminous point on the lunar disc, that almost any moonlit night it can be
easily perceived by the unaided terrestrial eye. What then must have been its splendor in the
eyes of our travellers whose telescopes brought it actually four thousand times nearer! No
wonder that with smoked glasses, they endeavored to soften off its effulgent glare! Then in
hushed silence, or at most uttering at intervals a few interjections expressive of their intense
admiration, they remained for some time completely engrossed in the overwhelming spectacle.
For the time being, every sentiment, impression, thought, feeling on their part, was concentrated
in the eye, just as at other times under violent excitement every throb of our life is concentrated
in the heart.

Tycho belongs to the system of lunar craters that is called radiating, like Aristarchus or
Copernicus, which had been already seen and highly admired by our travellers at their first
approach to the Moon. But it is decidedly the most remarkable and conspicuous of them all.
It occupies the great focus of disruption, whence it sends out great streaks thousands of miles
in length; and it gives the most unmistakable evidence of the terribly eruptive nature of those
forces that once shattered the Moon's solidified shell in this portion of the lunar surface.

Situated in the southern latitude of 43° by an eastern longitude of 12°, Tycho's crater, somewhat
elliptical in shape, is 54 miles in diameter and upwards of 16,000 feet in depth. Its lofty
ramparts are buttressed by other mountains, Mont Blancs in size, all grouped around it, and
all streaked with the great divergent fissures that radiate from it as a centre.

