"Then," said Miss Trelawny, turning to Sergeant Daw, "it cannot have been touched by any one.
Either Mrs. Grant or I myself was here all the time, and I do not think any of the servants
who came when I gave the alarm were near the bed at all.  You see, Father lay here just under
the great safe, and every one crowded round him.  We sent them all away in a very short time."
Daw, with a motion of his hand, asked us all to stay at the other side of the room whilst with
a magnifying-glass he examined the bed, taking care as he moved each fold of the bed-clothes
to replace it in exact position.  Then he examined with his magnifying-glass the floor beside
it, taking especial pains where the blood had trickled over the side of the bed, which was
of heavy red wood handsomely carved. Inch by inch, down on his knees, carefully avoiding any
touch with the stains on the floor, he followed the blood-marks over to the spot, close under
the great safe, where the body had lain.  All around and about this spot he went for a radius
of some yards; but seemingly did not meet with anything to arrest special attention.  Then
he examined the front of the safe; round the lock, and along the bottom and top of the double
doors, more especially at the places of their touching in front.

Next he went to the windows, which were fastened down with the hasps.

"Were the shutters closed?" he asked Miss Trelawny in a casual way as though he expected the
negative answer, which came.

All this time Doctor Winchester was attending to his patient; now dressing the wounds in the
wrist or making minute examination all over the head and throat, and over the heart.  More
than once he put his nose to the mouth of the senseless man and sniffed.  Each time he did
so he finished up by unconsciously looking round the room, as though in search of something.

Then we heard the deep strong voice of the Detective:

"So far as I can see, the object was to bring that key to the lock of the safe.  There seems
to be some secret in the mechanism that I am unable to guess at, though I served a year in
Chubb's before I joined the police.  It is a combination lock of seven letters; but there seems
to be a way of locking even the combination.  It is one of Chatwood's; I shall call at their
place and find out something about it."  Then turning to the Doctor, as though his own work
were for the present done, he said:

"Have you anything you can tell me at once, Doctor, which will not interfere with your full
report?  If there is any doubt I can wait, but the sooner I know something definite the better."
Doctor Winchester answered at once:

"For my own part I see no reason in waiting.  I shall make a full report of course.  But in
the meantime I shall tell you all I know--which is after all not very much, and all I think--which
is less definite.  There is no wound on the head which could account for the state of stupor
in which the patient continues.  I must, therefore, take it that either he has been drugged
or is under some hypnotic influence.  So far as I can judge, he has not been drugged--at least
by means of any drug of whose qualities I am aware.  Of course, there is ordinarily in this
room so much of a mummy smell that it is difficult to be certain about anything having a delicate
aroma.  I dare say that you have noticed the peculiar Egyptians scents, bitumen, nard, aromatic
gums and spices, and so forth. It is quite possible that somewhere in this room, amongst the
curios and hidden by stronger scents, is some substance or liquid which may have the effect
we see.  It is possible that the patient has taken some drug, and that he may in some sleeping
phase have injured himself.  I do not think this is likely; and circumstances, other than those
which I have myself been investigating, may prove that this surmise is not correct. But in
the meantime it is possible; and must, till it be disproved, be kept within our purview." Here
Sergeant Daw interrupted:

"That may be, but if so, we should be able to find the instrument with which the wrist was
injured.  There would be marks of blood somewhere."

"Exactly so!" said the Doctor, fixing his glasses as though preparing for an argument. "But
if it be that the patient has used some strange drug, it may be one that does not take effect
at once.  As we are as yet ignorant of its potentialities--if, indeed, the whole surmise is
correct at all--we must be prepared at all points."

Here Miss Trelawny joined in the conversation:

"That would be quite right, so far as the action of the drug was concerned; but according to
the second part of your surmise the wound may have been self-inflicted, and this after the
drug had taken effect."

"True!" said the Detective and the Doctor simultaneously.  She went on:

"As however, Doctor, your guess does not exhaust the possibilities, we must bear in mind that
some other variant of the same root-idea may be correct.  I take it, therefore, that our first
search, to be made on this assumption, must be for the weapon with which the injury was done
to my Father's wrist."

"Perhaps he put the weapon in the safe before he became quite unconscious," said I, giving
voice foolishly to a half-formed thought.

"That could not be," said the Doctor quickly.  "At least I think it could hardly be," he added
cautiously, with a brief bow to me.  "You see, the left hand is covered with blood; but there
is no blood mark whatever on the safe."

"Quite right!" I said, and there was a long pause.

The first to break the silence was the Doctor.

"We shall want a nurse here as soon as possible; and I know the very one to suit.  I shall
go at once to get her if I can.  I must ask that till I return some of you will remain constantly
with the patient.  It may be necessary to remove him to another room later on; but in the meantime
he is best left here.  Miss Trelawny, may I take it that either you or Mrs. Grant will remain
here--not merely in the room, but close to the patient and watchful of him--till I return?"

She bowed in reply, and took a seat beside the sofa.  The Doctor gave her some directions as
to what she should do in case her father should become conscious before his return.

The next to move was Superintendent Dolan, who came close to Sergeant Daw as he said:

"I had better return now to the station--unless, of course, you should wish me to remain for
a while."

He answered, "Is Johnny Wright still in your division?"

"Yes!  Would you like him to be with you?"  The other nodded reply. "Then I will send him on
to you as soon as can be arranged.  He shall then stay with you as long as you wish.  I will
tell him that he is to take his instructions entirely from you."

The Sergeant accompanied him to the door, saying as he went:

"Thank you, sir; you are always thoughtful for men who are working with you.  It is a pleasure
to me to be with you again.  I shall go back to Scotland Yard and report to my chief.  Then
I shall call at Chatwood's; and I shall return here as soon as possible. I suppose I may take
it, miss, that I may put up here for a day or two, if required.  It may be some help, or possibly
some comfort to you, if I am about, until we unravel this mystery."

"I shall be very grateful to you."  He looked keenly at her for a few seconds before he spoke
again.

"Before I go have I permission to look about your Father's table and desk?  There might be
something which would give us a clue--or a lead at all events."  Her answer was so unequivocal
as almost to surprise him.

"You have the fullest possible permission to do anything which may help us in this dreadful
trouble--to discover what it is that is wrong with my Father, or which may shield him in the
future!"

He began at once a systematic search of the dressing-table, and after that of the writing-table
in the room.  In one of the drawers he found a letter sealed; this he brought at once across
the room and handed to Miss Trelawny.

"A letter--directed to me--and in my Father's hand!" she said as she eagerly opened it.  I
watched her face as she began to read; but seeing at once that Sergeant Daw kept his keen eyes
on her face, unflinchingly watching every flitting expression, I kept my eyes henceforth fixed
on his.  When Miss Trelawny had read her letter through, I had in my mind a conviction, which,
however, I kept locked in my own heart.  Amongst the suspicions in the mind of the Detective
was one, rather perhaps potential than definite, of Miss Trelawny herself.

For several minutes Miss Trelawny held the letter in her hand with her eyes downcast, thinking.
Then she read it carefully again; this time the varying expressions were intensified, and I
thought I could easily follow them.  When she had finished the second reading, she paused again.
Then, though with some reluctance, she handed the letter to the Detective.  He read it eagerly
but with unchanging face; read it a second time, and then handed it back with a bow.  She paused
a little again, and then handed it to me.  As she did so she raised her eyes to mine for a
single moment appealingly; a swift blush spread over her pale cheeks and forehead.

With mingled feelings I took it, but, all said, I was glad.  She did not show any perturbation
in giving the letter to the Detective--she might not have shown any to anyone else.  But to
me... I feared to follow the thought further; but read on, conscious that the eyes of both
Miss Trelawny and the Detective were fixed on me.

"MY DEAR DAUGHTER,  I want you to take this letter as an instruction--absolute and imperative,
and admitting of no deviation whatever--in case anything untoward or unexpected by you or by
others should happen to me. If I should be suddenly and mysteriously stricken down--either
by sickness, accident or attack--you must follow these directions implicitly.  If I am not
already in my bedroom when you are made cognisant of my state, I am to be brought there as
quickly as possible. Even should I be dead, my body is to be brought there. Thenceforth, until
I am either conscious and able to give instructions on my own account, or buried, I am never
to be left alone--not for a single instant.  From nightfall to sunrise at least two persons
must remain in the room.  It will be well that a trained nurse be in the room from time to
time, and will note any symptoms, either permanent or changing, which may strike her.  My solicitors,
Marvin & Jewkes, of 27B Lincoln's Inn, have full instructions in case of my death; and Mr.
Marvin has himself undertaken to see personally my wishes carried out. I should advise you,
my dear Daughter, seeing that you have no relative to apply to, to get some friend whom you
can trust to either remain within the house where instant communication can be made, or to
come nightly to aid in the watching, or to be within call.  Such friend may be either male
or female; but, whichever it may be, there should be added one other watcher or attendant at
hand of the opposite sex. Understand, that it is of the very essence of my wish that there
should be, awake and exercising themselves to my purposes, both masculine and feminine intelligences.
Once more, my dear Margaret, let me impress on you the need for observation and just reasoning
to conclusions, howsoever strange.  If I am taken ill or injured, this will be no ordinary
occasion; and I wish to warn you, so that your guarding may be complete.

