THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION.

VOL. 10, No. 267.] SATURDAY, AUGUST 4, 1827. [PRICE 2d.

       *       *       *       *       *

HADLEY CHURCH.

Hadley, Mankin, or Monkton, Hadley, was formerly a hamlet to Edmonton. It lies north-west of
Enfield, and comprises 580 acres, including 240 allotted in lieu of the common enclosure of
Enfield Chase. Its name is compounded of two Saxon words--Head-leagh, or a high place; Mankin
is probably derived from the connexion of the place with the abbey of Walden, to which it was
given by Geoffrey de Mandeville, earl of Essex, under the name of the Hermitage of Hadley.
The village is situated on the east side of the great north road, eleven miles from London.

The manor belonged to the Mandevilles, the founder of the Hermitage, and was given by Geoffrey
to the monks of Walden; in the ensuing two centuries the manorial property underwent various
transmissions, and was purchased by the Pinney family, in the year 1791, by the present proprietor,
Peter Moore, Esq.

The house of the late David Garrow, father to the present judge of that name in the court of
exchequer, is supposed to have been connected with a monastic establishment. Chimney-pieces
remain in alto-relievo: on one is sculptured the story of Sampson; the other represents many
passages in the life of our Saviour, from his birth in the stall to his death on the cross.

The parish church, of which our engraving gives a correct view, is a handsome structure, built
at different periods. The chancel bears marks of great antiquity, but the body has been built
with bricks. At the west end is a square tower, composed of flint, with quoins of freestone;
on one side is the date Anno Domini 1393, cut in stone--one side of the stone bearing date
in the sculptured device of a wing; the other that of a rose. The figures denote the year 1494;
the last, like the second numerical, being the half eight, often used in ancient inscriptions.
The unique vestige of the middle ages, namely, a firepan, or pitchpot, on the south-west tower
of the church, was blown down in January, 1779 and carefully repaired, though now not required
for the purpose of giving an alarm at the approach of a foe, by lighting pitch within it. The
church has been supposed to have been erected by Edward IV. as a chapel for religious service,
to the memory of those who fell in the battle of Barnet in 1471.

On the window of the north transcept are some remains of painted glass, among which may be
noticed the rebus of the Gooders, a family of considerable consequence at Hadley in the fifteenth
and sixteenth centuries. This consists of a partridge with an ear of wheat in its bill; on
an annexed scroll is the word Gooder; on the capital of one of the pillars are two partridges
with ears of corn in the mouth, an evident repetition of the same punning device, and it is
probable the Gooder's were considerable benefactors towards building the church.

The almshouses for six decayed housekeepers were founded by Sir Roger Willbraham in 1616, but
so slenderly endowed that they do not produce more than 9l.6s. annually. Major Delafonte, in
1762, increased the annuity, which expired in 1805; but Mr. Cottrell gained by subscription
2375l. in trust. The father of the late Mr. Whitbread, the statesman, subscribed the sum of
1000l. for the support of the almshouses. The charity-school for girls was established in 1773,
and was enlarged and converted into a school of industry in 1800. Twenty girls in the establishment
receive annually the sum of 1l. towards clothing; thirty girls besides the above are admitted
to the benefit of education, on paying the weekly sum of 2d. and succeed to the vacancies which
occur in the class more largely assisted. This charity is in like manner supported by contributions
on the inhabitants. The boys' school, supported in the same way, which in 1804 amounted to
the sum of 103l. 10s., has about seventy day-scholars; twenty are allowed 1l. towards clothing,
and instructed without any charge; the remainder pay 2d. weekly.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SKETCH BOOK.

NO. XLIII.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BUTCHER.

Wolsey, they tell us, was a butcher. An alliterative couplet too was made upon him to that
import:--

    "By butchers born, by bishops bred,
    How high his honour holds his haughty head."

Notwithstanding which, however, and other similar allusions, there have arisen many disputes
touching the veracity of the assertion; yet, doubtless, those who first promulgated the idea,
were keen observers of men and manners; and, probably, in the critical examination of the Cardinal's
character, discovered a particular trait which indubitably satisfied them of his origin.

Be this as it may, I am inclined to think there is certainly something peculiarly characteristic
in the butcher.

The pursuit of his calling appears to have an influence upon his manners, speech, and dress.
Of all the days in the week, Saturday is the choicest for seeing him to the best advantage.
His hatless head, shining with grease, his cheeks as ruddy as his mutton-chops, his sky-blue
frock and dark-blue apron, his dangling steel and sharp-set knife, which ever and anon play
an accompaniment to his quick, short--"Buy! buy!" are all in good keeping with the surrounding
objects. And although this be not killing day with him, he is particularly winning and gracious
with the serving-maids; who (whirling the large street-door key about their right thumb, and
swinging their marketing basket in their left hand) view the well-displayed joints, undecided
which to select, until Mr. Butcher recommends a leg or a loin; and then he so very politely
cuts off the fat, in which his skilful hand is guided by the high or low price of mutton fat
in the market. He is the very antipode of a fop, yet no man knows how to show a handsome leg
off to better advantage, or is prouder of his calves.

In his noviciate, when he shoulders the shallow tray, and whistles cavalierly on his way in
his sausage-meat-complexioned-jacket, there is something marked as well in his character as
his habits, he is never moved to stay, except by a brother butcher, or a fight of dogs or boys,
for such scenes fit his singular fancy. Then, in the discussion of his bull-dog's beauties,
he becomes extraordinarily eloquent. Hatiz, the Persian, could not more warmly, or with choicer
figure, describe his mistress' charms, than he does Lion's, or Fowler's, or whatever the brute's
Christian name may be; and yet the surly, cynical, dogged expression of the bepraised beast,
would almost make one imagine he understood the meaning of his master's words, and that his
honest nature despised the flattering encomiums he passes upon his pink belly and legs, his
broad chest, his ring-tail, and his tulip ears!--Absurdities, in Prose and Verse.

       *       *       *       *       *

CONFIDENCE AND CREDIT.

(For the Mirror.)

    The day was dark, the markets dull,
    The Change was thin, Gazettes were full,
      And half the town was breaking;
    The counter-sign of Cash was "Stop!"
    Bankers and bankrupts shut up shop,
      And honest hearts were aching.

    When near the Bench my fancy spied
    A faded form, with hasty stride,
      Beneath Grief's burden stooping:
    Her name was CREDIT, and she said
    Her father, TRADE, was lately dead,
      Her mother, COMMERCE, drooping.

    The smile that she was wont to wear
    Was wither'd by the hand of care,
      Her eyes had lost their lustre:
    Her character was gone, she said,
    For she had basely been betray'd,
      And nobody would trust her.

    For honest INDUSTRY had tried
    To gain fair CREDIT for his bride,
      And found the damsel willing,
    But, ah! a fortune-hunter came,
    And SPECULATION was his name,
      A rake not worth a shilling.

    The villain came, on mischief bent,
    And soon gain'd dad and mam's consent--
      Ah! then poor CREDIT smarted;--
    He filch'd her fortune and her fame,
    He fix'd a blot upon her name,
      And left her broken-hearted.

    While thus poor CREDIT seem'd to sigh,
    Her cousin, CONFIDENCE, came by--
      (Methinks he must be clever)--
    For, when he whisper'd in her ear,
    She check'd the sigh, she dried the tear.
      And smiled as sweet as ever!

JESSE HAMMOND.

       *       *       *       *       *

CURIOUS SCRAPS RELATING TO CELEBRATED PERSONS.

(For the Mirror.)

When the famous Cornelia, daughter of the great Scipio, was importuned by a lady of her acquaintance
to show her toilette, she deferred satisfying her curiosity till her children, who were the
famous Gracchi, came from school, and then said, "En! haec ornamenta mea sunt."--"These are
my ornaments."

Cyneas, the minister of Pyrrhus, asked the king (before their expedition into Italy) what he
proposed to do when he had subdued the Romans? He answered, "Pass into Sicily." "What then?"
said the minister. "Conquer the Carthaginians," replied the king. "And what follows that?"
says the minister. "Be sovereign of Greece, and then enjoy ourselves," said the king. "And
why," replied the sensible minister, "can we not do this last now?"

The emperors Nerva, Trajan, Antoninous, and Aurelius sold their palaces, their gold and silver
plate, their valuable furniture, and other superfluities, heaped up by their predecessors,
and banished from their tables all expensive delicacies. These princes, together with Vespasian,
Pertinax, Alexander, Severus, Claudius the Second, and Tacitus, who were raised to the empire
by their merit, and whom all ages have admired as the greatest and the best of princes, were
always fond of the greatest plainness in their apparel, furniture, and outward appearance.

Cortez, the conqueror of Mexico, who lived unknown and disgraced in Spain, was scarcely able
to obtain an audience of his master Charles V.; and when the king asked who was the fellow
that was so clamorous to speak to him, he cried out, "I am one who have got your majesty more
provinces than your father left towns."

Henrietta, daughter of Henry IV. of France, and wife of Charles I. of England, was reduced
to the utmost poverty; and her daughter, afterwards married to a brother of Louis XIV., is
said to have lain in bed for want of coals to keep her warm. Pennant relates a melancholy fact
of fallen majesty in the person of Mary d'Este, the unhappy queen of James II., who, flying
with her infant prince from the ruin impending over their house, after crossing the Thames
from abdicated Whitehall, took shelter beneath the ancient walls of Lambeth church a whole
hour, from the rain of the inclement night of December 6th, 1688. Here she waited with aggravated
misery till a common coach, procured from the next inn, arrived, and conveyed her to Gravesend,
from whence she sailed, and bid adieu to this kingdom.

Pascal, one of the greatest geniuses and best men that ever lived, entertained a notion that
God made men miserable here in order to their being happy hereafter; and in consequence of
this notion, he imposed upon himself the most painful mortification. He even ordered a wall
to be built before a window in his study, which afforded him too agreeable a prospect. He had
also a girdle full of sharp points next his skin; and while he was eating or drinking any thing
that was grateful to his palate, he was constantly pricking himself, that he might not be sensible
of any pleasure. The virtuous Fenelon submitted without reserve to the arbitrary sentence of
the pope, when he condemned a book which he had published, and even preached in condemnation
of his own book, forbidding his friends to defend it. "What gross and humiliating superstitions
(says their biographer) have been manifested by men, in other respects of sound and clear understandings,
and of upright, honest hearts."

He registered his kingdom of Corsica for the use of his creditors. His biographer says, "He
was a man whose claim to royalty was as indisputable as the most ancient titles to any monarchy
can pretend to be; that is, the choice of his subjects, the voluntary election of an injured
people, who had the common right of mankind to freedom, and the uncommon resolution of determining
to be free."

P.T.W.

       *       *       *       *       *

"THE LILY BELLS ARE WET WITH DEW."

(To the Editor of the Mirror.)

Sir,--I have taken the liberty of transmitting to you a piece of a Latin ode, which appears
to me to be the original of the song--"The lily bells are wet with dew," in Miss Mitford's
"Dramatic Scenes," which appeared in your miscellany of June 23, 1827.

It is copied from an old book published in the year 1697, by Charles Elford, entitled "Gemmae
Poetarum."

If you think it worthy insertion, I should feel obliged by its appearance. Yours respectfully,

J.T.S.

    Lilia rorescuut, jubara osculo blande rosarum
      Florem tangunt--o, dives odore,
    O, splendens tinctu floretum--est ...
      Surge Feronia, et sertum texe
    Caesariem nunc implectare tuum coracinum
      Ne aestu medio sol flores abripiat.
    In coelo tenuis nubes est, lenta susurra
      Cum aura veniunt--aut imbrem vaticinans
    Aut nivem: orire, Feronia, crinem stringere caute
      Sertum age, ne veniat tempestas minitans.

I have translated it thus, which you may perceive is strictly literal:--

    The lilies are wet with the dew--the sunbeams with a kiss
    gently touch the flower of the roses.--O the garden is rich of
    scent--is bright of hue.--Arise Feronia and weave the garland
    even now to braid thy ravenlike hair, lest at mid-day the sun
    should spoil the flowers.--In the sky there is a little cloud,
    gentle whisperings come with the gale--they tell of rain or
    snow.--Arise Feronia and carefully weave the garland to bind up
    thy hair, lest the threatening storm should come.

       *       *       *       *       *

ASTRONOMICAL OCCURRENCES FOR AUGUST, 1827.

(For the Mirror.)

It has been computed, that all the celestial orbs perceived by the unassisted eye (which on
a clear night never exceed 1,000,) do not form the 80,000 part of those which may be descried
by the help of a telescope, through which they appear prodigiously increased in number; seventy
stars have been counted in the constellation of the pleiades, and no fewer than 2,000 in that
of Orion.

The galaxy, or via lactea, (milky way,) is a remarkable appearance in the heavens, being a
broad ray of whitish colour surrounding the whole celestial concave, whose light proceeds from
vast clusters of stars, discoverable only by the telescope. Mr. Brydone, in his journey to
the top of Mount Etna, found the phenomenon make a most glorious appearance, "like a pure flame
that shot across the heavens."

Dr. Herschel made many observations on this portion of the heavens, using a Newtonian reflector
of twenty feet focal length, and an aperture of eighteen inches. With this powerful telescope
he completely resolved the whitish appearance into stars, which the telescopes he had formerly
used had not light enough to do. In the most vacant place to be met with in that neighbourhood,
he found sixty-three stars; other six fields, or apparent spaces in the heavens, which he could
see at once through his telescope, averaged seventy-nine stars in each field: thus he found
that by allowing 15 min. of a deg. for the diameter of his field of view, a belt of 15 deg.
long, and 2 deg. broad, which he had often seen pass before his telescope in an hour's time
could not contain less than 50,000 stars, large enough to be distinctly numbered, besides which
he suspected twice as many more, which could be seen only now and then by faint glimpses, for
want of sufficient light. In the most crowded part of that region he informs us, he has had
fields of view which contained no less than 588 stars, and these were continued for many minutes,
so that in one quarter of an hour's time there passed no less than 116,000 stars. He also intimates
the probability of the sun being placed in this great stratum, though perhaps not in the very
centre of its thickness.

From the appearance of the galaxy it seems to encompass the whole heavens, as it certainly
must if the sun be within the same. From succeeding observations made by Dr. Herschel, he gathers
that the milky way is a most extensive stratum of stars of various sizes, and our sun evidently
one of the heavenly bodies belonging to it. In viewing and gauging this shining zone in almost
every direction, he found the number of stars composing it, by the account of those gauges
constantly increase and decrease in proportion to its apparent brightness to the naked eye.

The nebulae, or small whitish specks, discoverable by telescopes in various parts of the heavens
are owing to the same cause. Former astronomers could only reckon 103, but Herschel counts
upwards of 1,250. He has also discovered a species of them, which he calls planetary nebulae,
on account of their brightness, and shining with a well defined disk.

The sun enters Virgo on the 23rd at 11h. 42m. evening.

Mercury comes to his inferior conjunction on the 13th at 1-1/4h. morning, becomes stationary
on the 22nd, and is at his greatest elongation on the 31st, when he passes his ascending node;
he may be seen early on that morning rising at 3-1/2h.

Venus is in conjunction with Mars on the 21st at 3h. afternoon; she rises on the 1st at 2h.
38m., and on the 31st at 4h. 10m. morning.

Jupiter still continues a conspicuous object in the western part of the heavens, setting on
the 1st at 9h. 43m., and on the 31st at 8h. None of the eclipses of his satellites are visible
during the month in consequence of his being so near the sun.

Herschel comes to the south on the 1st at 11h. 6m., and on the 31st at 9h. 43m. evening.

Spica virginis (the virgin's spike), in the constellation Virgo culminates on the 1st at 4h.
32m. afternoon, being situated 10 deg. 13m. south of the equator, at a meridional elevation
of 28 deg. 26m. Arcturus in Bootes south at 5h. 23m. with 20 deg. north delineation, and at
an altitude of 58 deg. 46m. Antares in the heart of Scorpio at 7h. 34m., declination 26 deg.
south, elevation 12 deg. 38m. Altair in the Eagle at 10h. 57m., declination 8 deg. 24m. north,
altitude 47 deg. 3m. Fomalhaut in the most southern fish of the constellation Pisces at 2h.
6m. morning, having a southern declination of 30 deg. 34m., being elevated only 8 deg. 5m.
above the horizon. The above stars come to the meridian 4 min. earlier every evening; they
are all of the first magnitude (with the exception of Altair, which is of the second,) and
may be easily distinguished any hour of the day with a magnifying power of thirty times; stars
of the second magnitude require a power of 100, but when the sun is not more than two hours
above the horizon, they may be seen with a power of sixty.

PASCHE.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE NOVELIST.

NO. CVI.

       *       *       *       *       *

ROSALIE BERTON.

(Concluded from page 74. [Note: Mirror 266])

Things were in this state when I visited S----, and the union of Henri and Rosalie, though
not positively fixed, was regarded as an event by no means distant. Every one was interested
for the young and handsome couple, and wished for their espousal. Rosalie's friends longed
for the day when she was to wed the young and handsome Henri; and Henri's comrades were perpetually
urging him to cement his union with the lovely Rosalie.

We left the place with every kind wish for the young and betrothed pair. I have not since revisited
S----, but by letters from my friend, I have been informed, that this commencement of their
loves had a sad and melancholy sequel.

After our departure, it seems, the lovers continued equally attached; arrangements were making
for their union, and it was intended that Henri should leave the army previous to their marriage.
But just at this juncture, and as he was about to leave his corps, rumours of war were circulated,
the enterprise against Spain was projected, and the royal guard was one of the first corps
ordered for service. Henri, with the natural enthusiasm of a soldier, felt all his former ardour
revive; and longed to mingle in the ranks of glory, ere he left them for ever. He, doubtless,
felt severely the separation from Rosalie; yet his feelings were described to me as being of
a joyous character, and as if evincing that he felt happy that the opportunity of joining his
brethren in arms, and of signalizing himself perhaps for the last time, had presented itself,
previous to his marriage and his quitting the service.

The enterprise against Spain, he considered as the French army commonly did, to be a mere excursion
of pleasure, which, while it led them into a country which many of them had never visited before,
would also afford them the occasion of gathering laurels which might serve to redeem somewhat
of their lost glory. He therefore looked forward to the expedition, on the whole, with feelings
of ardour and delight, and even longed for its approach. Not so Rosalie! She looked on war
and bloodshed with the natural apprehensions of her sex; and saw in the projected expedition,
and its prospects of glory, only danger and death to her lover! Her spirits received a severe
shock when the intelligence was first communicated--she gradually lost her cheerfulness and
spirits; the song, the dance, had no longer charm or interest for her, and she could only contemplate
the approaching separation with sorrow and dismay!

Henri perceived her depression, and endeavoured to combat and remove her fears by arguments
fond, but unavailing. It was only, he would urge, a jaunt of pleasure; it would admit his speedy
return, when he would come to lay his services at her feet, and claim the hand which was already
promised to his hopes; and surely, then, Rosalie could not regret his obeying the call of duty
and of honour; or like her lover the worse, when crowned with victory in the cause of his country.
To these and similar assurances, Rosalie could only reply with the mute eloquence of tears;
and nothing could divest her of the apprehension with which she ever regarded an enterprise
which she seemed to consider from the first as fatal.

The time however drew on, the dreaded period arrived, the Royal Guard left its quarters, and
departed from S----. Henri took a fond and passionate adieu of his betrothed; and Rosalie,
having summoned all her fortitude to her aid, went through the parting scene with more firmness
than could have been expected from her, though her feelings, afterwards, were described as
of the most agonizing kind.

Such is the difference between the ardent feelings of man, and the tender and gentle sympathies
of woman, that, while his sorrow is alleviated by a thousand mitigating circumstances of ardour
and excitement, which relieve his attention, and soothe, though they do not annihilate his
grief; she can only brood over her feelings, and suffer in silence and in sorrow. Henri marched
out with his regiment in all the vigour of manhood, and with all the "pomp, pride, and circumstance
of war," while Rosalie could only retire to her chamber and weep.

Time passed on; letters were received from Henri, which spoke in ardent terms of his journey,
and of the new and singular scenes unfolded to his view. He adverted also to his return, mentioned
the war as a mere pastime, and as an agreeable jaunt, the termination of which he only desired,
because it would once more restore him to his Rosalie. It was remarked, however, that she never
recovered her cheerfulness; to all her lover's assurances she could only reply with expressions
of distrust, and with feelings of sorrow; and when she wrote, it was to express her fears of
the campaign, and her wish that it were over, and that they were again united in safety.

And constantly did the good and pious girl offer up her prayers for her lover, as she repaired
to the church of the Holy Virgin at S----, to perform her daily devotions.

The season advanced: the French marched through Spain, and reached Cadiz. At this last hope
of the Constitutionalists, a strong resistance was expected, and Henri had written from Seville,
that his next letter would announce the termination of the campaign. Alas! he never wrote again!
Time flew on; the journals announced the fall of the Trocadero; the surrender of Cadiz, and
the restoration of Ferdinand; yet there came no news from Henri! Then did the gentle girl sink
into all the despondency of disappointment; and as day after day passed and brought no tidings
of her lover, her beauty and her health suffered alike, she languished and pined till she scarce
retained the semblance of her former self.

At last came a letter; it was from Spain, but it was written in a stranger's hand, and its
sable appendages bespoke the fatal nature of its contents. It was from a brother officer of
Henri, stating that his regiment had been foremost in the attack, and that the Trocadero, the
last resource of the Constitutionalists, had been carried with the loss of but few killed;
but, alas! among that few, was Henri! He was shot through the body while leading his men to
the assault. He fell instantly dead, and the writer expressed his desire that the sad intelligence
should be conveyed as gently as possible to Rosalie.

Unhappily, by one of those chances which often occur, as if to aggravate misfortune, it was
Rosalie who received the fatal letter from the postman's hands! She tore it open; read its
dreadful contents; and with a wild and frenzied shriek, fell senseless to the ground! She was
borne to her bed, where every care and attention was bestowed; but her illness rapidly assumed
a threatening and a dangerous character. A fever seized her frame; she became at once delirious;
nor did reason again resume her throne; and it was not till after months of suffering and agony,
that she recovered, if that could be called recovery, which gave back a deformed and hapless
lunatic, bereft of intellect and of beauty, in place of the once gay and fascinating Rosalie.
The dread aberration of intellect was attributed by her medical attendants to the fatal and
sudden shock which she had sustained, and to its effect on a mind weakened by previous anxiety
and sorrow; while they feared her malady was of a nature, which admitted no hope of the return
of reason.

Her mind, it was stated, remained an entire blank. Imbecile, vacant, drivelling--she appeared
almost unconscious of former existence; and of those subjects which formerly engrossed her
attention, and excited her feelings, there were scarcely any on which she now evinced any emotion.
Even the name of her lover was almost powerless on her soul, and if repeated in her hearing,
seemed scarcely to call forth her notice.

