If this speech had been made in 1860 instead of 1836, Mr. Adams would not have been compelled
to rely upon these comparatively trivial and unimportant instances of interference by Congress
and the President for the support and protection of slavery. For the last twenty years, the
support and protection of that institution has been, to use Mr. Adams's words at a later day,
the vital and animating spirit of the Government; and the Constitution has been interpreted
and administered as if it contained an injunction upon all men, in power and out of power,
to sustain and perpetuate slavery. Mr. Adams goes on to state how the war power may be used:--

"But the war power of Congress over the institution of slavery in the States is yet far more
extensive. Suppose the case of a servile war, complicated, as to some extent it is even now,
with an Indian war; suppose Congress were called to raise armies, to supply money from the
whole Union to suppress a servile insurrection: would they have no authority to interfere with
the institution of slavery? The issue of a servile war may be disastrous; it may become necessary
for the master of the slave to recognize his emancipation by a treaty of peace; can it for
an instant be pretended that Congress, in such a contingency, would have no authority to interfere
with the institution of slavery, in any way, in the States? Why, it would be equivalent to
saying that Congress have no constitutional authority to make peace. I suppose a more portentous
case, certainly within the bounds of possibility--I would to God I could say, not within the
bounds of probability--"

THE WAR IN ITS RELATION TO SLAVERY.

To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TRIBUNE:

SIR,--Our country is opening up a new page in the history of governments. The world has never
witnessed such a spontaneous uprising of any people in support of free institutions as that
now exhibited by the citizens of our Northern States. I observe that the vexed question of
slavery still has to be met, both in the Cabinet and in the field. It has been met by former
Presidents, by former Cabinets, and by former military officers. They have established a train
of precedents that may be well followed at this day. I write now for the purpose of inviting
attention to those principles of international law which are regarded by publicists and jurists
as proper guides in the exercise of that despotic and almost unlimited authority called the
"war power." A synopsis of these doctrines was given by Major General Gaines, at New Orleans,
in 1838.

General Jessup had captured many fugitive slaves and Indians in Florida, and had ordered them
to be sent west of the Mississippi. At New Orleans, they were claimed by the owners, under
legal process; but Gen. Gaines, commanding that military district, refused to deliver them
to the sheriff, and appeared in court, stating his own defence.

He declared that these people (men, women and children) were captured in wars and held as prisoners
of war: that as commander of that military department or district, he held them subject only
to the order of the National Executive: that he could recognize no other power in time of war,
or by the laws of war, as authorized to take prisoners from his possession.

He asserted that, in time of war, all slaves were belligerents as much as their masters. The
slave men, said he, cultivate the earth and supply provisions. The women cook the food, nurse
the wounded and sick, and contribute to the maintenance of the war, often more than the same
number of males. The slave children equally contribute whatever they are able to the support
of the war. Indeed, he well supported General Butler's declaration, that slaves are contraband
of war.

The military officer, said he, can enter into no judicial examination of the claim of one man
to the bone and muscle of another as property. Nor could he, as a military officer, know what
the laws of Florida were while engaged in maintaining the Federal Government by force of arms.
In such case, he could only be guided by the laws of war; and whatever may be the laws of any
State, they must yield to the safety of the Federal Government. This defence of General Gaines
may be found in House Document No. 225, of the Second Session of the 25th Congress. He sent
the slaves West, where they became free.

Louis, the slave of a man named Pacheco, betrayed Major Dade's battalion, in 1836, and when
he had witnessed their massacre, he joined the enemy. Two years subsequently, he was captured,
Pacheco claimed him; General Jessup said if he had time, he would try him before a court-martial
and hang him, but would not deliver him to any man. He however sent him West, and the fugitive
slave became a free man, and is now fighting the Texans. General Jessup reported his action
to the War Department, and Mr. Van Buren, then President, with his Cabinet, approved it. Pacheco
then appealed to Congress, asking that body to pay him for the loss of his slave; and Mr. Greeley
will recollect that he and myself, and a majority of the House of Representatives, voted against
the bill, which was rejected. All concurred in the opinion that General Jessup did right in
emancipating the slave, instead of returning him to his master.

In 1838, General Taylor captured a number of negroes said to be fugitive slaves. Citizens of
Florida, learning what had been done, immediately gathered around his camp, intending to secure
the slaves who had escaped from them. General Taylor told them that he had no prisoners but
"prisoners of war." The claimants then desired to look at them, in order to determine whether
he was holding their slaves as prisoners. The veteran warrior replied that no man should examine
his prisoners for such a purpose; and he ordered them to depart. This action being reported
to the War Department, was approved by the Executive. The slaves, however, were sent West,
and set free.

In 1836, General Jessup wanted guides and men to act as spies. He therefore engaged several
fugitive slaves to act as such, agreeing to secure the freedom of themselves and families if
they served the Government faithfully. They agreed to do so, fulfilled their agreement, were
sent West, and set free. Mr. Van Buren's Administration approved the contract, and Mr. Tyler's
Administration approved the manner in which General Jessup fulfilled it by setting the slaves free.

In December, 1814, General Jackson impressed a large number of slaves at and near New Orleans,
and kept them at work erecting defences, behind which his troops won such glory on the 8th
of January, 1815. The masters remonstrated. Jackson disregarded their remonstrances, and kept
the slaves at work until many of them were killed by the enemy's shots; yet his action was
approved by Mr. Madison and Cabinet, and by Congress, which has ever refused to pay the masters
for their losses.

But in all these cases, the masters were professedly friends of the Government; and yet our
Presidents and Cabinets and Generals have not hesitated to emancipate their slaves whenever
in time of war it was supposed to be for the interest of the country to do so. This was done
in the exercise of the "war power" to which Mr. Adams referred in Congress, and for which he
had the most abundant authority. But I think no records of this nation, nor of any other nation,
will show an instance in which a fugitive slave has been sent back to a master who was in rebellion
against the very Government who held his slave as captive.

From these precedents I deduce the following doctrines:--

1. That slaves belonging to an enemy are now and have ever been regarded as belligerents; may
be lawfully captured and set free, sent out of the State, or otherwise disposed of at the will
of the Executive.

2. That as slaves enable an enemy to continue and carry on the war now waged against our Government,
it becomes the duty of all officers and loyal citizens to use every proper means to induce
the slaves to leave their masters, and cease lending aid and comfort to the rebels.

3. That in all cases it becomes the duty of the Executive, and of all Executive officers and
loyal citizens, to aid, assist and encourage those slaves who have escaped from rebel masters
to continue their flight and maintain their liberty.

4. That to send back a fugitive slave to a rebel master would be lending aid and assistance
to the rebellion. That those who arrest and send back such fugitives identify themselves with
the enemies of our Government, and should be indicted as traitors.

J. R. GIDDINGS.

MONTREAL, June 6, 1861.

Accordingly, let old Virginia begin to put her house in order, and pack up for the removal
of her half million of slaves, for fear of the impending storm. She has invited it, and only
a speedy repentance will save her from being dashed to pieces among the rocks and surging billows
of this dreadful revolution.--New York Herald, April 22.

RETALIATION.

The New York Courier and Enquirer, in an editorial, apparently from Gen. Webb's own hand, discourses
as follows:--

"Most assuredly these madmen are calling down upon themselves a fearful retribution. We are
no Abolitionists, as the columns of the Courier and Enquirer, for the whole period of its existence,
now thirty-four years, will abundantly demonstrate. And for the whole of that period, except
the first six months of its infancy, it has been under our exclusive editorial charge.

"Never, during that long period, has an Abolition sentiment found its way into our columns;
and for the good reason, that we have respected, honored and revered the Constitution, and
recognized our duty to obey and enforce its mandates. But Rebellion stalks through the land.
A confederacy of slave States has repudiated that Constitution; and, placing themselves beyond
its pale, openly seeks to destroy it, and ruin all whom it, protects. They no longer profess
any obedience to its requirements; and, of course, cannot claim its protection. By their own
act, our duty to respect their rights, under that Constitution, ceases with their repudiation
of it; and our right to liberate their slave property is as clear as would be our right to
liberate the slaves of Cuba in a war with Spain.

"A band of pirates threaten and authorize piracy upon Northern commerce; and from the moment
that threat is carried into execution, the fetters will fall from the manacled limbs of their
slaves, and they will be encouraged and aided in the establishment of their freedom. Suppose
Cuba were to issue letters of marque against our commerce, and, according to the Charleston
Mercury, seize 'upon the rich prizes which may be coming from foreign lands,' does any sane
man doubt that we should at once invade that island, and liberate her slaves? Or does any statesman
or jurist question our right so to do? And why, then, should we hesitate to pursue a similar
course in respect to the so-called Southern Confederacy?

"Spain, as a well-established nation, and recognized as such by all the powers of the world,
would have the right, according to the laws of nations, to adopt such a course of proceeding;
but she would do it at her peril, and well weighing the consequences. But the rebel government
of the slave States possesses no such right. The act would be no more or less than piracy;
and we should not only hang at the yard-arm all persons caught in the practice, but we should
be compelled, in self-defence, to carry the war into Africa, and deal with the slaves of the
Confederacy precisely as we should, under similar circumstances, deal with those of Cuba.

"'The richly laden ships of the North,' says the Mobile Advertiser, 'swarm on every sea, and
are absolutely unprotected. The harvest is ripe.' We admit it; but gather it if you dare. Venture
upon the capture of the poorest of those richly laden ships,' and, from that moment, your slaves
become freemen, doing battle in Freedom's cause. 'Hundreds and hundreds of millions of the
property of the enemy invite us to spoil him--to spoil these Egyptians,' says the same paper.
True, but you dare not venture upon the experiment; or, if you should be so rash as to make
the experiment, your fourteen hundred millions of slave property will cease to exist, and you
will find four millions of liberated slaves in your midst, wreaking upon their present masters
the smothered vengeance of a servile race, who, for generation after generation, have groaned
under the lash of the negro driver and his inhuman employer.

"'The risk of the privateer,' says the same organ of the rebel confederacy, 'will still be
trifling; but he will continue to reap the harvest.' His risk will only be his neck, and his
'harvest' will be a halter. But the risk, nay, the certainty of the punishment to be visited
upon the slave confederacy, will be far greater--of infinitely greater magnitude than they
can well conceive; because it will be no more or less than the loss of all their slave property,
accompanied with the necessity of contending, hand to hand, for their lives, with the servile
race so long accustomed to the lash, and the torture, and the branding and maiming of their
inhuman masters; a nation of robbers, who now, in the face of the civilized world, repudiate
their just debts, rob banks and mints, sell freemen captured in an unarmed vessel into perpetual
slavery, trample upon law and order, insult our flag, capture our forts and arsenals, and,
finally, invite pirates to prey upon our commerce!

"Such a nest of pirates may do some mischief, and greatly alarm the timid. But the men of the
North know how to deal with them; and we tell them, once for all, that, if they dare grant
a solitary letter of marque, and the person or persons acting under it venture to assail the
poorest of our vessels in the peaceful navigation of the ocean, or the coasts and rivers of
our country--from that moment their doom is sealed, and slavery ceases to exist. We speak the
unanimous sentiment of our people; and to that sentiment all in authority will be compelled
to bow submissively. So let us hear no more of the idle gasconade of 'the Chivalry' of a nest
of robbers, who seek to enlarge the area of their public and private virtues, &c."

This is very plain talk, and cannot easily be misapprehended by those whom it concerns.

O. A. BROWNSON ON THE WAR.

There is neither reason nor justice in Massachusetts, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania and
the great States northwest of the Ohio pouring out their blood and treasure for the gratification
of the slaveholding pretensions of Maryland, Kentucky or Missouri. The citizens of these States
who own slaves are as much bound, if the preservation of the Union requires it, to give up
their property in slaves, as we at the farther North are to pour out our blood and treasure
to put down a rebellion which threatens alike them and us. If they love their few slaves more
than they do the Union, let them go out of the Union. We are stronger to fight the battles
of the Union without them than we are with them.

But we have referred only to the slaves in the rebellious States, and if it is, or if it becomes,
a military necessity to liberate all the slaves of the Union, and to treat the whole present
slave population as freemen and citizens, it would be no more than just and proper that, at
the conclusion of the war, the citizens of loyal States, or the loyal citizens of loyal sections
of the rebellious States, should be indemnified at a reasonable rate for the slaves that may
have been liberated. The States and sections of States named have not a large number of slaves,
and if the Union is preserved, it would not be a very heavy burden on it to pay their ransom;
and to paying it, no patriot or loyal citizen of the free States would raise the slightest
objection. The objection therefore urged, though grave, need not be regarded as insuperable;
and we think the advantages of the measure, in a military point of view, would be far greater
than any disadvantage we have to apprehend from it.

Whether the time for this important measure has come or not, it is for the President, as Commander-in-Chief
of our armies, to determine. But, in our judgment, no single measure could be adopted by the
government that would more effectually aid its military operations, do more to weaken the rebel
forces, and to strengthen our own.

It seems to us, then, highly important, in every possible view of the case, that the Federal
Government should avail itself of the opportunity given it by the Southern rebellion to perform
this act of justice to the negro race; to assimilate the labor system of the South to that
of the North; to remove a great moral and political wrong; and to wipe out the foul stain of
slavery, which has hitherto sullied the otherwise bright escutcheon of our Republic. We are
no fanatics on the subject of slavery, as is well known to our readers, and we make no extraordinary
pretensions to modern philanthropy; but we cannot help fearing that, if the government lets
slip the present opportunity of doing justice to the negro race, and of placing our republic
throughout in harmony with modern civilization, God, who is especially the God of the poor
and the oppressed, will never give victory to our arms, or suffer us to succeed in our efforts
to suppress rebellion and restore peace and integrity in the Union.

THE NEW YORK HERALD ON THE WAR.

With the secession of Virginia, there is going to be enacted on the banks of the Potomac one
of the most terrible conflicts the world has ever witnessed; and Virginia, with all her social
systems, will be doomed, and swept away.--New York Herald, April 19.

We must also admonish the people of Maryland that we of the North have the common right of
way through their State to our National Capital. But let her join the revolutionists, and her
substance will be devoured by our Northern legions as by an Arabian cloud of locusts, and her
slave population will disappear in a single campaign.

A Northern invasion of Virginia and of Kentucky, if necessary, carrying along with it the Canadian
line of African freedom, as it must do from the very nature of civil war, will produce a powerful
Union reaction. The slave population of the border States will be moved in two directions.
One branch of it, without the masters, will be moved Northward, and the other branch, with
the masters, will be moved Southward, so that, by the time the Northern army will have penetrated
to the centre of the border slave States, they will be relieved of the substance and abstract
rights of slave property for all time to come.

Finally, the revolted States having appealed to the sword of revolution to redress their wrongs,
may soon have to choose between submission to the Union or the bloody extinction of slavery,
from the absence of any law, any wish, any power for its protection.-- Ibid, April 20.

By land and water, if she places herself in the attitude of rebellion, Maryland may be overrun
and subdued in a single week, including the extinction of slavery within her own borders; for
war makes its own laws.

We are less concerned about Washington than about Maryland. Loyal to the Union, she is perfectly
safe, negroes and all; disloyal to the Union, she may be crushed, including her institution
of slavery. Let her stand by the Union, and the Union will protect and respect her-- slavery
and all.--Ibid, April 21.

Virginia, next to Maryland, will be subjected to this test. She has seceded, and hence she
will probably risk the breaking of every bone in her body. If so, we fear that every bone in
her body will be broken, including her backbone of slavery. The day is not far off when the
Union men of the revolted States will be asked to come to the relief of their misguided brethren,
for, otherwise, the war which they have chosen to secure their institution of slavery may result
in wiping it out of existence.--Ibid, April 23.

In advance of this movement, President Lincoln should issue his proclamation, guaranteeing
the complete protection of all loyal Union men and their property, but warning the enemies
of the Government of the dangers of confiscation, negroes included.

If Virginia resists, the contest cannot last very long, considering her large slave population,
which will either become fugitives or take up arms against their masters.--Ibid, April 24.

That we are to have a fight, that Virginia and Maryland will form the battle-ground, that the
Northern roughs will sweep those States with fire and sword, is beyond peradventure. They have
already been excited to the boiling point by the rich prospect of plunder held out by some
of their leaders, and will not be satisfied unless they have a farm and a nigger each. There
is no sort of exaggeration about these statements, as the people of the border States will
shortly ascertain to their cost. The character of the coming campaign will be vindictive, fierce,
bloody, and merciless beyond parallel in ancient or modern history.--Ibid, April 28.

The class of population which is recruiting in our large cities, the regiments forming for
service in behalf of the Union, can never be permanently worsted. They will pour down upon
the villages and cities of Virginia and Maryland, and leave a desolate track behind them, and
inspire terror in whatever vicinity they approach.--Ibid, April 29.

It will be idle for Tennessee and Kentucky to attempt to escape from the issue, and to remain
at peace, while the remainder of the country is at war. Neutrality will be considered opposition,
and the result of a general frontier war will be, that slavery, as a domestic institution of
the United States; will be utterly annihilated.--Ibid, April 30.

The rebellion must be put down by some means or another, else it will put us down; and if nothing
else will do, even to proclaim the abolition of slavery would be legitimate. All is fair in
war...Gen. Fremont and the other Generals must act according to circumstances, and their own
judgment, unless when otherwise ordered...If he is acting on his own responsibility, he is
only carrying out the Confiscation Act, so far as the slaves are concerned...We have no fear
of the result.--N. Y. Herald, Sept. 3.

BUT ONE WAY OUT.

To our apprehension, God is fast closing every avenue to settled peace but by emancipation.
And one of the most encouraging facts is that the eyes of the nation are becoming turned in
that direction quite as rapidly as could have been anticipated. Some men of conservative antecedents,
like Dickinson of New York, saw this necessity from the first. But it takes time to accustom
a whole people to the thought, and to make them see the necessity. It was impossible for Northern
men to fathom the spirit and the desperate exigencies of the slave system and its outbreak,
and consequently to comprehend the desperate nature of the struggle. We were like a policeman
endeavoring to arrest a boy-ruffian, and, for the sake of his friends and for old acquaintance
sake, doing it with all possible tenderness for his person and his feelings--till all of a
sudden he feels the grip on his throat and the dagger's point at his breast, and knows that
it is a life-and-death grapple.

Slaveholding is simply piracy continued. Our people are beginning to spell out that short and
easy lesson in the light of perjury, robbery, assassination, poisoning, and all the more than
Algerine atrocities of this rebellion. It cannot require many more months of schooling like
the last eight, to convince the dullest of us what are its essence and spirit.

Our people also are rapidly finding out that no peaceful termination of this war will be permitted
now by the Slave Power, except by its thorough overthrow. The robber has thrown off the mask,
and says now to the nation, "Your life or mine!" Even the compromising Everett has boldly told
the South, "To be let alone is not all you ask--but you demand a great deal more." And in his
late oration, he has most powerfully portrayed the impossibility of a peaceful disunion. Many
men, some anti-slavery, were at first inclined to yield to the idea of a separation. But every
day's experience is scattering that notion to the winds. The ferocious spirit exhibited from
the first by the Secessionists towards all dissentients, the invasion of Western Virginia by
Eastern, the threats to put down loyal Kentucky, the foray in Missouri, the plan for capturing
Washington, which was part of the original scheme, are convincing proofs, that if by any pacification
whatever our troops were disbanded to-day, to-morrow a Southern army would be on the march
for Washington, Philadelphia, New York, and perhaps Chicago.

The South has sufficiently declared the cause of this trouble to be the irreconcilable conflict
between their institutions and the fundamental principles of this government. While the cause
remains in full strength, and after it has once burst forth in bloody and final collision,
nothing will ever check that strife, whether in or out of the Union. The cause must be eradicated.
Meanwhile, our own position, both before the world and in our own struggle at home, is a false
one, so long as we blink the real issue.

Many indications are hopeful. Gen. Butler's letter to the Secretary of War, and the Secretary's
reply, look in the right direction. The Confiscation Act is pregnant with great consequences,
and may yet be so used as to become an emancipation act in all the rebel States. It is high
time it were so used. We have serious doubts whether the rebellion will ever be suppressed
till that trenchant weapon is wielded. We reverently doubt whether the Lord means it shall
be. The quiet passage of the Confiscation Act was an immense step of governmental progress.
Perhaps it was all that the nation as a whole and the government were ready for. It may answer
as a keen wedge. But we trust that, in December, Congress will make clean work by the full
emancipation of all slaves in the rebel States, and by provision in some way for the speedy
and certain extinction of slavery in the loyal States. To accomplish the latter event, we would
ourselves willingly submit to any proper amount of pecuniary burden, provided it could be so
arranged as not to recognize a right of property in man.--Chicago Congregational Herald.

PROCLAMATION OF GEN. FREMONT.

(Signed,)

J. C. FREMONT, Major General Commanding.

SLAVERY HAS DONE IT.

