I've been evolving a personally-adapted composting system for the past twenty years. I've gone
through a number of methods. I've used and then abandoned power chipper/shredders, used home-made
bins and then switched to crude heaps; I've sheet composted, mulched, and used green manure.
I first made compost on a half-acre lot where maintaining a tidy appearance was a reasonable
concern. Now, living in the country, I don't have be concerned with what the neighbors think
of my heaps because the nearest neighbor's house is 800 feet from my compost area and I live
in the country because I don't much care to care what my neighbors think. 

That's why I now compost so crudely. There are a lot of refinements I could use but don't bother
with at this time. I still get fine compost. What follows should be understood as a description
of my unique, personal method adapted to my temperament and the climate I live in. I start
this book off with such a simple example because I want you to see how completely easy it can
be to make perfectly usable compost. I intend this description for inspiration, not emulation. 

I am a serious food gardener. Starting in spring I begin to accumulate large quantities of
vegetation that demand handling. There are woody stumps and stalks of various members of the
cabbage family that usually overwinter in western Oregon's mild winters. These biennials go
into bloom by April and at that point I pull them from the garden with a fair amount of soil
adhering to the roots. These rough materials form the bottom layer of a new pile. 

Since the first principle of abundant living is to produce two or three times as much as you
think you'll need, my overly-large garden yields dozens and dozens of such stumps and still
more dozens of uneaten savoy cabbages, more dozens of three foot tall Brussels sprouts stalks
and cart loads of enormous blooming kale plants. At the same time, from our insulated but unheated
garage comes buckets and boxes of sprouting potatoes and cart loads of moldy uneaten winter
squashes. There may be a few crates of last fall's withered apples as well. Sprouting potatoes,
mildewed squash, and shriveled apples are spread atop the base of brassica stalks. 

I grow my own vegetable seed whenever possible, particularly for biennials such as brassicas,
beets and endive. During summer these generate large quantities of compostable straw after
the seed is thrashed. Usually there is a big dry bean patch that also produces a lot of straw.
There are vegetable trimmings, and large quantities of plant material when old spring-sown
beds are finished and the soil is replanted for fall harvest. With the first frost in October
there is a huge amount of garden clean up. 

As each of these materials is acquired it is temporarily placed next to the heap awaiting the
steady outpourings from our 2-1/2 gallon kitchen compost pail. Our household generates quite
a bit of garbage, especially during high summer when we are canning or juicing our crops. But
we have no flies or putrid garbage smells coming from the compost pile because as each bucketful
is spread over the center of the pile the garbage is immediately covered by several inches
of dried or wilted vegetation and a sprinkling of soil. 

By October the heap has become about six feet high, sixteen feet long and about seven feet
wide at the base. I've made no attempt to water this pile as it was built, so it is quite dry
and has hardly decomposed at all. Soon those winter rains that the Maritime northwest is famous
for arrive. From mid-October through mid-April it drizzles almost every day and rains fairly
hard on occasion. Some 45 inches of water fall. But the pile is loosely stacked with lots of
air spaces within and much of the vegetation started the winter in a dry, mature form with
a pretty hard "bark" or skin that resists decomposition. Winter days average in the high 40s,
so little rotting occurs. 

Still, by next April most of the pile has become quite wet. Some garbagey parts of it have
decomposed significantly, others not at all; most of it is still quite recognizable but much
of the vegetation has a grayish coating of microorganisms or has begun to turn light brown.
Now comes the only two really hard hours of compost-making effort each year. For a good part
of one morning I turn the pile with a manure fork and shovel, constructing a new pile next
to the old one. 

First I peel off the barely-rotted outer four or five inches from the old pile; this makes
the base of the new one. Untangling the long stringy grasses, seed stalks, and Brussels sprout
stems from the rest can make me sweat and even curse, but fortunately I must stop occasionally
to spray water where the material remains dry and catch my wind. Then, I rearrange the rest
so half-decomposed brassica stumps and other big chunks are placed in the center where the
pile will become the hottest and decomposition will proceed most rapidly. As I reform the material,
here and there I lightly sprinkle a bit of soil shoveled up from around the original pile.
When I've finished turning it, the new heap is about five feet high, six feet across at the
bottom, and about eight feet long. The outside is then covered with a thin layer of crumbly,
black soil scraped up where the pile had originally stood before I turned it. 

Using hand tools for most kinds of garden work, like weeding, cultivating, tilling, and turning
compost heaps is not as difficult or nearly as time consuming as most people think if one has
the proper, sharp tools. Unfortunately, the knowledge of how to use hand tools has largely
disappeared. No one has a farm-bred grandfather to show them how easy it is to use a sharp
shovel or how impossibly hard it can be to drive a dull one into the soil. Similarly, weeding
with a sharp hoe is effortless and fast. But most new hoes are sold without even a proper bevel
ground into the blade, much less with an edge that has been carefully honed. So after working
with dull shovels and hoes, many home food growers mistakenly conclude that cultivation is
not possible without using a rotary tiller for both tillage and weeding between rows. But instead
of an expensive gasoline-powered machine all they really needed was a little knowledge and
a two dollar file. 

Similarly, turning compost can be an impossible, sweat-drenching, back-wrenching chore, or
it can be relatively quick and easy. It is very difficult to drive even a very sharp shovel
into a compost pile. One needs a hay fork, something most people call a "pitchfork." The best
type for this task has a very long, delicate handle and four, foot long, sharp, thin tines.
Forks with more than four times grab too much material. If the heap has not rotted very thoroughly
and still contains a lot of long, stringy material, a five or six tine fork will grab too much
and may require too much strength. Spading forks with four wide-flat blades don't work well
for turning heaps, but en extremis I'd prefer one to a shovel. 

Also, there are shovels and then, there are shovels. Most gardeners know the difference between
a spade and a shovel. They would not try to pick up and toss material with a spade designed
only to work straight down and loosen soil. However, did you know that there are design differences
in the shape of blade and angle of handle in shovels. The normal "combination" shovel is made
for builders to move piles of sand or small gravel. However, use a combination shovel to scrape
up loose, fine compost that a fork won't hold and you'll quickly have a sore back from bending
over so far. Worse, the combination shovel has a decidedly curved blade that won't scrape up
very much with each stroke. 

A better choice is a flat-bladed, square-front shovel designed to lift loose, fine-textured
materials from hard surfaces. However, even well-sharpened, these tend to stick when they bump
into any obstacle. Best is an "irrigator's shovel." This is a lightweight tool looking like
an ordinary combination shovel but with a flatter, blunter rounded blade attached to the handle
at a much sharper angle, allowing the user to stand straighter when working. Sharp irrigator's
shovels are perfect for scooping up loosened soil and tossing it to one side, for making trenches
or furrows in tilled earth and for scraping up the last bits of a compost heap being turned over. 

Once turned, my long-weathered pile heats up rapidly. It is not as hot as piles can cook, but
it does steam on chilly mornings for a few weeks. By mid-June things have cooled. The rains
have also ceased and the heap is getting dry. It has also sagged considerably. Once more I
turn the pile, watering it down with a fine mist as I do so. This turning is much easier as
the woody brassica stalks are nearly gone. The chunks that remain as visible entities are again
put into the new pile's center; most of the bigger and less-decomposed stuff comes from the
outside of the old heap. Much of the material has become brown to black in color and its origins
are not recognizable. The heap is now reduced to four feet high, five feet wide, and about
six feet long. Again I cover it with a thin layer of soil and this time put a somewhat brittle,
recycled sheet of clear plastic over it to hold in the moisture and increase the temperature.
Again the pile briefly heats and then mellows through the summer. 

In September the heap is finished enough to use. It is about thirty inches high and has been
reduced to less than one-eighth of its starting volume eighteen months ago. What compost I
don't spread during fall is protected with plastic from being leached by winter rainfall and
will be used next spring. Elapsed time: 18-24 months from start to finish. Total effort: three
turnings. Quality: very useful. 

Obviously my method is acceptable to me because the pile is not easily visible to the residents
or neighbors. It also suits a lazy person. It is a very slow system, okay for someone who is
not in a hurry to use their compost. But few of my readers live on really rural properties;
hopefully, most of them are not as lazy as I am. 

At this point I could recommend alternative, improved methods for making compost much like
cookbook recipes from which the reader could pick and choose. There could be a small backyard
recipe, the fast recipe, the apartment recipe, the wintertime recipe, the making compost when
you can't make a pile recipes. Instead, I prefer to compliment your intelligence and first
explore the principles behind composting. I believe that an understanding of basics will enable
you to function as a self-determined individual and adapt existing methods, solve problems
if they arise, or create something personal and uniquely correct for your situation. 

CHAPTER TWO 

Composting Basics 

Managing living systems usually goes better when our methods imitate nature's. Here's an example
of what happens when we don't. 

People who keep tropical fish in home aquariums are informed that to avoid numerous fish diseases
they must maintain sterile conditions. Whenever the fish become ill or begin dying, the hobbyist
is advised to put antibiotics or mild antiseptics into the tank, killing off most forms of
microlife. But nature is not sterile. Nature is healthy. 

Like many an apartment dweller, in my twenties I raised tropical fish and grew house plants
just to have some life around. The plants did fine; I guess I've always had a green thumb.
But growing tired of dying fish and bacterial blooms clouding the water, I reasoned that none
of the fish I had seen in nature were diseased and their water was usually quite clear. Perhaps
the problem was that my aquarium had an overly simplified ecology and my fish were being fed
processed, dead food when in nature the ecology was highly complex and the fish were eating
living things. So I bravely attempted the most radical thing I could think of; I went to the
country, found a small pond and from it brought home a quart of bottom muck and pond water
that I dumped into my own aquarium. Instead of introducing countless diseases and wiping out
my fish, I actually had introduced countless living things that began multiplying rapidly.
The water soon became crystal clear. Soon the fish were refusing to eat the scientifically
formulated food flakes I was supplying. The profuse variety of little critters now living in
the tank's gravel ate it instead. The fish ate the critters and became perfectly healthy. 

When the snails I had introduced with the pond mud became so numerous that they covered the
glass and began to obscure my view, I'd crush a bunch of them against the wall of the aquarium
and the fish would gorge on fresh snail meat. The angelfish and guppies especially began to
look forward to my snail massacres and would cluster around my hand when I put it into the
tank. On a diet of living things in a natural ecology even very difficult species began breeding. 

Organic and biological farmers consider modern "scientific" farming practices to be a similar
situation. Instead of imitating nature's complex stability, industrial farmers use force, attempting
to bend an unnaturally simplified ecosystem to their will. As a result, most agricultural districts
are losing soil at a non-sustainable rate and produce food of lowered nutritional content,
resulting in decreasing health for all the life forms eating the production of our farms. Including
us. 

I am well aware that these condemnations may sound quite radical to some readers. In a book
this brief I cannot offer adequate support for my concerns about soil fertility and the nation's
health, but I can refer the reader to the bibliography, where books about these matters by
writers far more sagely than I can be found. I especially recommend the works of William Albrecht,
Weston Price, Sir Robert McCarrison, and Sir Albert Howard. 

Making Humus 

Before we ask how to compost, since nature is maximally efficient perhaps it would benefit
us to first examine how nature goes about returning organic matter to the soil from whence
it came. If we do nearly as well, we can be proud. 

Where nature is allowed to operate without human intervention, each place develops a stable
level of biomass that is inevitably the highest amount of organic life that site could support.
Whether deciduous forest, coniferous forest, prairie, even desert, nature makes the most of
the available resources and raises the living drama to its most intense and complex peak possible.
There will be as many mammals as there can be, as many insects, as many worms, as many plants
growing as large as they can get, as much organic matter in all stages of decomposition and
the maximum amount of relatively stable humus in the soil. All these forms of living and decomposing
organisms are linked in one complex system; each part so closely connected to all the others
that should one be lessened or increased, all the others change as well. 

The efficient decomposition of leaves on a forest floor is a fine example of what we might
hope to achieve in a compost pile. Under the shade of the trees and mulched thickly by leaves,
the forest floor usually stays moist. Although the leaves tend to mat where they contact the
soil, the wet, somewhat compacted layer is thin enough to permit air to be in contact with
all of the materials and to enter the soil. 

Living in this very top layer of fluffy, crumbly, moist soil mixed with leaf material and humus,
are the animals that begin the process of humification. Many of these primary decomposers are
larger, insect-like animals commonly known to gardeners, including the wood lice that we call
pill bugs because they roll up defensively into hard armadillo-like shells, and the highly
intrusive earwigs my daughter calls pinch bugs. There are also numerous types of insect larvae
busily at work. 

A person could spend their entire life trying to understand the ecology of a single handful
of humus-rich topsoil. For a century now, numerous soil biologists have been doing just that
and still the job is not finished. Since gardeners, much less ordinary people, are rarely interested
in observing and naming the tiny animals of the soil, especially are we disinterested in those
who do no damage to our crops, soil animals are usually delineated only by Latin scientific
names. The variations with which soil animals live, eat, digest, reproduce, attack, and defend
themselves fills whole sections of academic science libraries. 

During the writing of this book I became quite immersed in this subject and read far more deeply
into soil biology and microbiology than I thought I ever would. Even though this area of knowledge
has amused me, I doubt it will entertain most of you. If it does, I recommend that you first
consult specialist source materials listed in the bibliography for an introduction to a huge
universe of literature. 

I will not make you yawn by mentioning long, unfamiliar Latin names. I will not astonish you
with descriptions of complex reproductive methods and beautiful survival strategies. Gardeners
do not really need this information. But managing the earth so that soil animals are helped
and not destroyed is essential to good gardening. And there are a few qualities of soil animals
that are found in almost all of them. If we are aware of the general characteristics of soil
animals we can evaluate our composting and gardening practices by their effect on these minuscule
creatures. 

Compared to the atmosphere, soil is a place where temperature fluctuations are small and slow.
Consequently, soil animals are generally intolerant to sudden temperature changes and may not
function well over a very wide range. That's why leaving bare earth exposed to the hot summer
sun often retards plant growth and why many thoughtful gardeners either put down a thin mulch
in summer or try to rapidly establish a cooling leaf canopy to shade raised beds. Except for
a few microorganisms, soil animals breathe oxygen just like other living things and so are
dependent on an adequate air supply. Where soil is airless due to compaction, poor drainage,
or large proportions of very fine clay, soil animals are few in number.

The soil environment is generally quite moist; even when the soil seems a little dryish the
relative humidity of the soil air usually approaches 100 percent. Soil animals consequently
have not developed the ability to conserve their body moisture and are speedily killed by dry
conditions. When faced with desiccation they retreat deeper into the soil if there is oxygen
and pore spaces large enough to move about. So we see another reason why a thin mulch that
preserves surface moisture can greatly increase the beneficial population of soil animals.
Some single-cell animals and roundworms are capable of surviving stress by encysting themselves,
forming a little "seed" that preserves their genetic material and enough food to reactivate
it, coming back to life when conditions improve. These cysts may endure long periods of severe
freezing and sometimes temperatures of over 150 degree F. 

Inhabitants of leaf litter reside close to the surface and so must be able to experience exposure
to dryer air and light for short times without damage. The larger litter livers are called
primary decomposers. They spend most of their time chewing on the thick reserve of moist leaves
contacting the forest floor. Primary decomposers are unable to digest the entire leaf. They
extract only the easily assimilable substances from their food: proteins, sugars and other
simple carbohydrates and fats. Cellulose and lignin are the two substances that make up the
hard, permanent, and woody parts of plants; these materials cannot be digested by most soil
animals. Interestingly, just like in a cow's rumen, there are a few larvae whose digestive
tract contains cellulose-decomposing bacteria but these larvae have little overall effect. 

After the primary consumers are finished the leaves have been mechanically disintegrated and
thoroughly moistened, worked over, chewed to tiny pieces and converted into minuscule bits
of moist excrement still containing active digestive enzymes. Many of the bacteria and fungi
that were present on the leaf surfaces have passed through this initial digestion process alive
or as spores waiting and ready to activate. In this sense, the excrement of the primary decomposers
is not very different than manure from large vegetarian mammals like cows and sheep although
it is in much smaller pieces. 

Digestive wastes of primary decomposers are thoroughly inoculated with microorganisms that
can consume cellulose and lignin. Even though it looks like humus, it has not yet fully decomposed.
It does have a water-retentive, granular structure that facilitates the presence of air and
moisture throughout the mass creating perfect conditions for microbial digestion to proceed. 

This excrement is also the food for a diverse group of nearly microscopic soil animals called
secondary decomposers. These are incapable of eating anything that has not already been predigested
by the primary decomposers. The combination of microbes and the digestive enzymes of the primary
and secondary decomposers breaks down resistant cellulose and to some degree, even lignins.
The result is a considerable amount of secondary decomposition excrement having a much finer
crumb structure than what was left by the primary decomposers. It is closer to being humus
but is still not quite finished. 

Now comes the final stage in humus formation. Numerous species of earthworms eat their way
through the soil, taking in a mixture of earth, microbes, and the excrement of soil animals.
All of these substances are mixed together, ground-up, and chemically recombined in the worm's
highly active and acidic gut. Organic substances chemically unite with soil to form clay/humus
complexes that are quite resistant to further decomposition and have an extraordinarily high
ability to hold and release the very nutrients and water that feed plants. Earthworm casts
(excrement) are mechanically very stable and help create a durable soil structure that remains
open and friable, something gardeners and farmers call good tilth or good crumb. Earthworms
are so vitally important to soil fertility and additionally useful as agents of compost making
that an entire section of this book will consider them in great detail. 

Let's underline a composting lesson to be drawn from the forest floor. In nature, humus formation
goes on in the presence of air and moisture. The agents of its formation are soil animals ranging
in complexity from microorganisms through insects working together in a complex ecology. These
same organisms work our compost piles and help us change crude vegetation into humus or something
close to humus. So, when we make compost we need to make sure that there is sufficient air
and moisture. 

Decomposition is actually a process of repeated digestions as organic matter passes and repasses
through the intestinal tracts of soil animals numerous times or is attacked by the digestive
enzymes secreted by microorganisms. At each stage the vegetation and decomposition products
of that vegetation are thoroughly mixed with animal digestive enzymes. Soil biologists have
observed that where soil conditions are hostile to soil animals, such as in compacted fine
clay soils that exclude air, organic matter is decomposed exclusively by microorganisms. Under
those conditions virtually no decomposition-resistant humus/clay complexes form; almost everything
is consumed by the bacterial community as fuel. And the non-productive soil is virtually devoid
of organic matter. 

Sir Albert Howard has been called the 'father of modern composting.' His first composting book
(1931) The Waste Products of Agriculture, stressed the vital importance of animal digestive
enzymes from fresh cow manure in making compost. When he experimented with making compost without
manure the results were less than ideal. Most gardeners cannot obtain fresh manure but fortunately
soil animals will supply similar digestive enzymes. Later on when we review Howard's Indore
composting method we will see how brilliantly Sir Albert understood natural decomposition and
mimicked it in a composting method that resulted in a very superior product. 

At this point I suggest another definition for humus. Humus is the excrement of soil animals,
primarily earthworms, but including that of some other species that, like earthworms, are capable
of combining partially decomposed organic matter and the excrement of other soil animals with
clay to create stable soil crumbs resistant to further decomposition or consumption. 

Nutrients in the Compost Pile 

Some types of leaves rot much faster on the forest floor than others. Analyzing why this happens
reveals a great deal about how to make compost piles decompose more effectively. 

Leaves from leguminous (in the same botanical family as beans and peas) trees such as acacia,
carob, and alder usually become humus within a year. So do some others like ash, cherry, and
elm. More resistant types take two years; these include oak, birch, beech, and maple. Poplar
leaves, and pine, Douglas fir, and larch needles are very slow to decompose and may take three
years or longer. Some of these differences are due to variations in lignin content which is
highly resistant to decomposition, but speed of decomposition is mainly influenced by the amount
of protein and mineral nutrients contained in the leaf. 

Plants are composed mainly of carbohydrates like cellulose, sugar, and lignin. The element
carbon is by far the greater part of carbohydrates [carbo(n)hydr(ogen)ates] by weight. Plants
can readily manufacture carbohydrates in large quantities because carbon and hydrogen are derived
from air (C02) and water (H2O), both substances being available to plants in almost unlimited
quantities. 

Sugar, manufactured by photosynthesis, is the simplest and most vital carbohydrate. Sugar is
"burned" in all plant cells as the primary fuel powering all living activities. Extra sugar
can be more compactly stored after being converted into starches, which are long strings of
sugar molecules linked together. Plants often have starch-filled stems, roots, or tubers; they
also make enzymes capable of quickly converting this starch back into sugar upon demand. We
homebrewers and bakers make practical use of a similar enzyme process to change starches stored
in grains back to sugar that yeasts can change into alcohol. 

C/N of Various Tree Leaves/Needles 

False acacia 14:1 Fir 48:1 

Black alder 15:1 Birch 50:1 

Gray alder 19:1 Beech 51:1 

Ash 21:1 Maple 52:1 

Birds's eye cherry 22:1 Red oak 53:1 

Hornbeam 23:1 Poplar 63:1 

Elm 28:1 Pine 66:1 

Lime 37:1 Douglas fir 77:1 

Oak 47:1 Larch 113:1 

The protein content of tree leaves is very similar to their ratio of carbon (C) compared to
nitrogen (N) 

Sometimes plants store food in the form of oil, the most concentrated biological energy source.
Oil is also constructed from sugar and is usually found in seeds. Plants also build structural
materials like stem, cell walls, and other woody parts from sugars converted into cellulose,
a substance similar to starch. Very strong structures are constructed with lignins, a material
like cellulose but much more durable. Cellulose and lignins are permanent. They cannot be converted
back into sugar by plant enzymes. Nor can most animals or bacteria digest them. 

Certain fungi can digest cellulose and lignin, as can the symbiotic bacteria inhabiting a cow's
rumen. In this respect the cow is a very clever animal running a cellulose digestion factory
in the first and largest of its several stomachs. There, it cultures bacteria that eat cellulose;
then the cow digests the bacteria as they pass out of one stomach and into another. 

Plants also construct proteins, the vital stuff of life itself. Proteins are mainly found in
those parts of the plant involved with reproduction and photosynthesis. Protein molecules differ
from starches and sugars in that they are larger and amazingly more complex. Most significantly,
while carbohydrates are mainly carbon and hydrogen, proteins contain large amounts of nitrogen
and numerous other mineral nutrients. 

Proteins are scarce in nature. Plants can make them only in proportion to the amount of the
nutrient, nitrogen, that they take up from the soil. Most soils are very poorly endowed with
nitrogen. If nitrate-poor, nutrient-poor soil is well-watered there may be lush vegetation
but the plants will contain little protein and can support few animals. But where there are
high levels of nutrients in the soil there will be large numbers of animals, even if the land
is poorly watered and grows only scrubby grasses--verdant forests usually feed only a few shy
deer while the short grass semi-desert prairies once supported huge herds of grazing animals. 

Ironically, just as it is with carbon, there is no absolute shortage of nitrogen on Earth.
The atmosphere is nearly 80 percent nitrogen. But in the form of gas, atmospheric nitrogen
is completely useless to plants or animals. It must first be combined chemically into forms
plants can use, such as nitrate (NO3) or ammonia (NH3). These chemicals are referred to as
"fixed nitrogen." 

Nitrogen gas strongly resists combining with other elements. Chemical factories fix nitrogen
only at very high temperatures and pressures and in the presence of exotic catalysts like platinum
or by exposing nitrogen gas to powerful electric sparks. Lightning flashes can similarly fix
small amounts of nitrogen that fall to earth dissolved in rain. 

And certain soil-dwelling microorganisms are able to fix atmospheric nitrogen. But these are
abundant only where the earth is rich in humus and minerals, especially calcium. So in a soil
body where large quantities of fixed nitrogen are naturally present, the soil will also be
well-endowed with a good supply of mineral nutrients. 

Most of the world's supply of combined nitrogen is biologically fixed at normal temperatures
and standard atmospheric pressure by soil microorganisms. We call the ones that live freely
in soil "azobacteria" and the ones that associate themselves with the roots of legumes "rhizobia."
Blue-green algae of the type that thrive in rice paddies also manufacture nitrate nitrogen.
We really don't know how bacteria accomplish this but the nitrogen they "fix" is the basis
of most proteins on earth. 

All microorganisms, including nitrogen-fixing bacteria, build their bodies from the very same
elements that plants use for growth. Where these mineral elements are abundant in soil, the
entire soil body is more alive and carries much more biomass at all levels from bacteria through
insects, plants, and even mammals. 

Should any of these vital nutrient substances be in short supply, all biomass and plant growth
will decrease to the level permitted by the amount available, even though there is an overabundance
of all the rest. The name for this phenomena is the "Law of Limiting Factors." The concept
of limits was first formulated by a scientist, Justus von Liebig, in the middle of the last
century. Although Liebig's name is not popular with organic gardeners and farmers because misconceptions
of his ideas have led to the widespread use of chemical fertilizers, Liebig's theory of limits
is still good science. 

Liebig suggested imagining a barrel being filled with water as a metaphor for plant growth:
the amount of water held in the barrel being the amount of growth. Each stave represents one
of the factors or requirements plants need in order to grow such as light, water, oxygen, nitrogen,
phosphorus, copper, boron, etc. Lowering any one stave of the barrel, no matter which one,
lessens the amount of water that can be held and thus growth is reduced to the level of the
most limited growth factor. 

For example, one essential plant protein is called chlorophyll, the green pigment found in
leaves that makes sugar through photosynthesis. Chlorophyll is a protein containing significant
amounts of magnesium. Obviously, the plant's ability to grow is limited by its ability to find
enough fixed nitrogen and also magnesium to make this protein. 

Animals of all sizes from elephants to single cell microorganisms are primarily composed of
protein. But the greatest portion of plant material is not protein, it is carbohydrates in
one form or another. Eating enough carbohydrates to supply their energy requirements is rarely
the survival problem faced by animals; finding enough protein (and other vital nutrients) in
their food supply to grow and reproduce is what limits their population. The numbers and health
of grazing animals is limited by the protein and other nutrient content of the grasses they
are eating, similarly the numbers and health of primary decomposers living on the forest floor
is limited by the nutrient content of their food. And so is the rate of decomposition. And
so too is this true in the compost pile. 

The protein content of vegetation is very similar to its ratio of carbon (C) compared to nitrogen
(N). Quick laboratory analysis of protein content is not done by measuring actual protein itself
but by measuring the amount of combined nitrogen the protein gives off while decomposing. Acacia,
alder, and leaves of other proteinaceous legumes such as locust, mesquite, scotch broom, vetch,
alfalfa, beans, and peas have low C/N ratios because legume roots uniquely can shelter clusters
of nitrogen-fixing rhizobia. These microorganisms can supply all the nitrate nitrogen fast-growing
legumes can use if the soil is also well endowed with other mineral nutrients rhizobia need,
especially calcium and phosphorus. Most other plant families are entirely dependent on nitrate
supplies presented to them by the soil. Consequently, those regions or locations with soils
deficient in mineral nutrients tend to grow coniferous forests while richer soils support forests
with more protein in their leaves. There may also be climatic conditions that favor conifers
over deciduous trees, regardless of soil fertility. 

It is generally true that organic matter with a high ratio of carbon to nitrogen also will
have a high ratio of carbon to other minerals. And low C/N materials will contain much larger
amounts of other vital mineral nutrients. When we make compost from a wide variety of materials
there are probably enough quantity and variety of nutrients in the plant residues to form large
populations of humus-forming soil animals and microorganisms. However, when making compost
primarily with high C/N stuff we need to blend in other substances containing sufficient fixed
nitrogen and other vital nutrient minerals. Otherwise, the decomposition process will take
a very long time because large numbers of decomposing organisms will not be able to develop. 

C/N of Compostable Materials 

+/-6:1         +/-12:1       +/-25:1       +/-50:1           +/-100:1 
Bone Meal      Vegetables    Summer grass  cornstalks (dry)  Sawdust 
Meat scraps    Garden weeds  Seaweed       Straw (grain)     Paper 
Fish waste     Alfalfa hay   Legume hulls  Hay (low quality) Tree bark 
Rabbit manure  Horse manure  Fruit waste                     Bagasse 
Chicken manure Sewage sludge Hay (top quality)               Grain chaff 
Pig manure     Silage                                        Corn cobs 
Seed meal      Cow manure                                    Cotton mill
                                                                waste 

The lists in this table of carbon/nitrogen ratios are broken out as general ranges of C/N.
It has long been an unintelligent practice of garden-level books to state "precise" C/N ratios
for materials. One substance will be "23:1" while another will be "25:1." Such pseudoscience
is not only inaccurate but it leads readers into similar misunderstandings about other such
lists, like nitrogen contents, or composition breakdowns of organic manures, or other organic
soil amendments. Especially misleading are those tables in the back of many health and nutrition
books spelling out the "exact" nutrient contents of foods. There is an old saying about this:
'There are lies, then there are damned lies, and then, there are statistics. The worse lies
of all can be statistics.' 

The composition of plant materials is very dependent on the level and nature of the soil fertility
that produced them. The nutrition present in two plants of the same species, even in two samples
of the exact same variety of vegetable raised from the same packet of seed can vary enormously
depending on where the plants were grown. William Albrecht, chairman of the Soil Department
at the University of Missouri during the 1930s, was, to the best of my knowledge, the first
mainstream scientist to thoroughly explore the differences in the nutritional qualities of
plants and to identify specific aspects of soil fertility as the reason why one plant can be
much more nutritious than another and why animals can be so much healthier on one farm compared
to another. By implication, Albrecht also meant to show the reason why one nation of people
can be much less healthy than another. Because his holistic outlook ran counter to powerful
vested interests of his era, Albrecht was professionally scorned and ultimately left the university
community, spending the rest of his life educating the general public, especially farmers and
health care professionals. 

Summarized in one paragraph, Albrecht showed that within a single species or variety, plant
protein levels vary 25 percent or more depending on soil fertility, while a plant's content
of vital nutrients like calcium, magnesium, and phosphorus can simultaneously move up or down
as much as 300 percent, usually corresponding to similar changes in its protein level. Albrecht
also discovered how to manage soil in order to produce highly nutritious food. Chapter Eight
has a lot more praise for Dr. Albrecht. There I explore this interesting aspect of gardening
in more detail because how we make and use organic matter has a great deal to do with the resulting
nutritional quality of the food we grow. 

Imagine trying to make compost from deficient materials such as a heap of pure, moist sawdust.
What happens? Very little and very, very slowly. Trees locate most of their nutrient accumulation
in their leaves to make protein for photosynthesis. A small amount goes into making bark. Wood
itself is virtually pure cellulose, derived from air and water. If, when we farmed trees, we
removed only the wood and left the leaves and bark on the site, we would be removing next to
nothing from the soil. If the sawdust comes from a lumber mill, as opposed to a cabinet shop,
it may also contain some bark and consequently small amounts of other essential nutrients. 

Thoroughly moistened and heaped up, a sawdust pile would not heat up, only a few primary decomposers
would take up residence. A person could wait five years for compost to form from pure moist
sawdust and still not much would happen. Perhaps that's why the words "compost" and "compot"
as the British mean it, are connected. In England, a compot is a slightly fermented mixture
of many things like fruits. If we mixed the sawdust with other materials having a very low
C/N, then it would decompose, along with the other items. 

CHAPTER THREE 

Practical Compost Making 

To make compost rot rapidly you need to achieve a strong and lasting rise in temperature. Cold
piles will eventually decompose and humus will eventually form but, without heat, the process
can take a long, long time. Getting a pile to heat up promptly and stay hot requires the right
mixture of materials and a sensible handling of the pile's air and moisture supply. 

Compost piles come with some built-in obstacles. The intense heat and biological activity make
a heap slump into an airless mass, yet if composting is to continue the pile must allow its
living inhabitants sufficient air to breath. Hot piles tend to dry out rapidly, but must be
kept moist or they stop working. But heat is desirable and watering cools a pile down. If understood
and managed, these difficulties are really quite minor. 

Composting is usually an inoffensive activity, but if done incorrectly there can be problems
with odor and flies. This chapter will show you how to make nuisance-free compost. 

Hot Composting 

The main difference between composting in heaps and natural decomposition on the earth's surface
is temperature. On the forest floor, leaves leisurely decay and the primary agents of decomposition
are soil animals. Bacteria and other microorganisms are secondary. In a compost pile the opposite
occurs: we substitute a violent fermentation by microorganisms such as bacteria and fungi.
Soil animals are secondary and come into play only after the microbes have had their hour.
In three more hours there will be two million. 

For food, they consume the compost heap. Almost all oxygen-breathing organisms make energy
by "burning" some form of organic matter as fuel much like gasoline powers an automobile. This
cellular burning does not happen violently with flame and light. Living things use enzymes
to break complex organic molecules down into simpler ones like sugar (and others) and then
enzymatically unite these with oxygen. But as gentle as enzymatic combustion may seem, it still
is burning. Microbes can "burn" starches, cellulose, lignin, proteins, and fats, as well as
sugars. 

No engine is one hundred percent efficient. All motors give off waste heat as they run. Similarly,
no plant or animal is capable of using every bit of energy released from their food, and consequently
radiate heat. When working hard, living things give off more heat; when resting, less. The
ebb and flow of heat production matches their oxygen consumption, and matches their physical
and metabolic activities, and growth rates. Even single-celled animals like bacteria and fungi
breathe oxygen and give off heat. 

Soil animals and microorganisms working over the thin layer of leaf litter on the forest floor
also generate heat but it dissipates without making any perceptible increase in temperature.
However, compostable materials do not transfer heat readily. In the language of architecture
and home building they might be said to have a high "R" value or to be good insulators When
a large quantity of decomposing materials are heaped up, biological heat is trapped within
the pile and temperature increases, further accelerating the rate of decomposition. 

Temperature controls how rapidly living things carry out their activities. Only birds and mammals
are warm blooded-capable of holding the rate of their metabolic chemistry constant by holding
their body temperature steady. Most animals and all microorganisms have no ability to regulate
their internal temperature; when they are cold they are sluggish, when warm, active. Driven
by cold-blooded soil animals and microorganisms, the hotter the compost pile gets the faster
it is consumed. 

This relationship between temperature and the speed of biological activity also holds true
for organic chemical reactions in a test-tube, the shelf-life of garden seed, the time it takes
seed to germinate and the storage of food in the refrigerator. At the temperature of frozen
water most living chemical processes come to a halt or close to it. That is why freezing prevents
food from going through those normal enzymatic decomposition stages we call spoiling. 

By the time that temperature has increased to about 50 degree F, the chemistry of most living
things is beginning to operate efficiently. From that temperature the speed of organic chemical
reactions then approximately doubles with each 20 degree increase of temperature. So, at 70
degree F decomposition is running at twice the rate it does at 50 degree, while at 90 degree
four times as rapidly as at 50 degree and so on. However, when temperatures get to about 150
degree organic chemistry is not necessarily racing 32 times as fast as compared to 50 degree
because many reactions engendered by living things decline in efficiency at temperatures much
over 110 degree. 

This explanation is oversimplified and the numbers I have used to illustrate the process are
slightly inaccurate, however the idea itself is substantially correct. You should understand
that while inorganic chemical reactions accelerate with increases in temperature almost without
limit, those processes conducted by living things usually have a much lower terminal temperature.
Above some point, life stops. Even the most heat tolerant soil animals will die or exit a compost
pile by the time the temperature exceeds 120 degree, leaving the material in the sole possession
of microorganisms. 

Most microorganisms cannot withstand temperatures much over 130 degree. When the core of a
pile heats beyond this point they either form spores while waiting for things to cool off,
or die off. Plenty of living organisms will still be waiting in the cooler outer layers of
the heap to reoccupy the core once things cool down. However, there are unique bacteria and
fungi that only work effectively at temperatures exceeding 110 degree. Soil scientists and
other academics that sometimes seem to measure their stature on how well they can baffle the
average person by using unfamiliar words for ordinary notions call these types of organisms
thermophiles, a Latin word that simply means "heat lovers." 

Compost piles can get remarkably hot. Since thermophilic microorganisms and fungi generate
the very heat they require to accelerate their activities and as the ambient temperature increases
generate even more heat, the ultimate temperature is reached when the pile gets so hot that
even thermophilic organisms begin to die off. Compost piles have exceeded 160 degree. You should
expect the heaps you build to exceed 140 degree and shouldn't be surprised if they approach
150 degree 

Other types of decomposing organic matter can get even hotter. For example, haystacks commonly
catch on fire because dry hay is such an excellent insulator. If the bales in the center of
a large hay stack are just moist enough to encourage rapid bacterial decomposition, the heat
generated may increase until dryer bales on the outside begin to smoke and then burn. Wise
farmers make sure their hay is thoroughly dry before baling and stacking it. 

How hot the pile can get depends on how well the composter controls a number of factors. These
are so important that they need to be considered in detail. 

Particle size. Microorganisms are not capable of chewing or mechanically attacking food. Their
primary method of eating is to secrete digestive enzymes that break down and then dissolve
organic matter. Some larger single-cell creatures can surround or envelop and then "swallow"
tiny food particles. Once inside the cell this material is then attacked by similar digestive
enzymes. 

Since digestive enzymes attack only outside surfaces, the greater the surface area the composting
materials present the more rapidly microorganisms multiply to consume the food supply. And
the more heat is created. As particle size decreases, the amount of surface area goes up just
about as rapidly as the number series used a few paragraphs back to illustrate the multiplication
of microorganisms. 

The surfaces presented in different types of soil similarly affect plant growth so scientists
have carefully calculated the amount of surface areas of soil materials. Although compost heaps
are made of much larger particles than soil, the relationship between particle size and surface
area is the same. Clearly, when a small difference in particle size can change the amount of
surface area by hundreds of times, reducing the size of the stuff in the compost pile will: 

- expose more material to digestive enzymes; 

- greatly accelerate decomposition; 

- build much higher temperatures. 

Oxygen supply. All desirable organisms of decomposition are oxygen breathers or "aerobes. There
must be an adequate movement of air through the pile to supply their needs. If air supply is
choked off, aerobic microorganisms die off and are replaced by anaerobic organisms. These do
not run by burning carbohydrates, but derive energy from other kinds of chemical reactions
not requiring oxygen. Anaerobic chemistry is slow and does not generate much heat, so a pile
that suddenly cools off is giving a strong indication that the core may lack air. The primary
waste products of aerobes are water and carbon dioxide gas--inoffensive substances. When most
people think of putrefaction they are actually picturing decomposition by anaerobic bacteria.
With insufficient oxygen, foul-smelling materials are created. Instead of humus being formed,
black, tarlike substances develop that are much less useful in soil. Under airless conditions
much nitrate is permanently lost. The odiferous wastes of anaerobes also includes hydrogen
sulfide (smells like rotten eggs), as well as other toxic substances with very unpleasant qualities.

Heaps built with significant amounts of coarse, strong, irregular materials tend to retain
large pore spaces, encourage airflow and remain aerobic. Heat generated in the pile causes
hot air in the pile's center to rise and exit the pile by convection. This automatically draws
in a supply of fresh, cool air. But heaps made exclusively of large particles not only present
little surface area to microorganisms, they permit so much airflow that they are rapidly cooled.
This is one reason that a wet firewood rick or a pile of damp wood chips does not heat up.
At the opposite extreme, piles made of finely ground or soft, wet materials tend to compact,
ending convective air exchanges and bringing aerobic decomposition to a halt. In the center
of an airless heap, anaerobic organisms immediately take over. 

Surface Area of One Gram of Soil Particles 

Particle Size    Diameter of       Number of         Surface Area
                 Particles in mm   Particles per gm  per square cm

Very Coarse Sand 2.00-1.00         90                11  Coarse Sand      1.00-0.50       
720               23  Medium Sand      0.50-0.25         5,700             45  Find Sand  
0.25-0.10         46,000            91  Very Fine Sand   0.10-005          772,000        
227  Silt             0.05-0.002        5,776,000         454 

Composters use several strategies to maintain airflow. The most basic one is to blend an assortment
of components so that coarse, stiff materials maintain a loose texture while soft, flexible
stuff tends to partially fill in the spaces. However, even if the heap starts out fluffy enough
to permit adequate airflow, as the materials decompose they soften and tend to slump together
into an airless mass. 

Periodically turning the pile, tearing it apart with a fork and restacking it, will reestablish
a looser texture and temporarily recharge the pore spaces with fresh air. Since the outer surfaces
of a compost pile do not get hot, tend to completely dry out, and fail to decompose, turning
the pile also rotates the unrotted skin to the core and then insulates it with more-decomposed
material taken from the center of the original pile. A heap that has cooled because it has
gone anaerobic can be quickly remedied by turning. 

Piles can also be constructed with a base layer of fine sticks, smaller tree prunings, and
dry brushy material. This porous base tends to enhance the inflow of air from beneath the pile.
One powerful aeration technique is to build the pile atop a low platform made of slats or strong
hardware cloth. 

Larger piles can have air channels built into them much as light wells and courtyards illuminate
inner rooms of tall buildings. As the pile is being constructed, vertical heavy wooden fence
posts, 4 x 4's, or large-diameter plastic pipes with numerous quarter-inch holes drilled in
them are spaced every three or four feet. Once the pile has been formed and begins to heat,
the wooden posts are wiggled around and then lifted out, making a slightly conical airway from
top to bottom. Perforated plastic vent pipes can be left in the heap. With the help of these
airways, no part of the pile is more than a couple of feet from oxygen 

Moisture. A dry pile is a cold pile. Microorganisms live in thin films of water that adhere
to organic matter whereas fungi only grow in humid conditions; if the pile becomes dry, both
bacteria and fungi die off. The upwelling of heated air exiting the pile tends to rapidly dehydrate
the compost heap. It usually is necessary to periodically add water to a hot working heap.
Unfortunately, remoistening a pile is not always simple. The nature of the materials tends
to cause water to be shed and run off much like a thatched roof protects a cottage. 

Since piles tend to compact and dry out at the same time, when they are turned they can simultaneously
be rehydrated. When I fork over a heap I take brief breaks and spray water over the new pile,
layer by layer. Two or three such turnings and waterings will result in finished compost. 

The other extreme can also be an obstacle to efficient composting. Making a pile too wet can
encourage soft materials to lose all mechanical strength, the pile immediately slumps into
a chilled, airless mass. Having large quantities of water pass through a pile can also leach
out vital nutrients that feed organisms of decomposition and later on, feed the garden itself.
I cover my heaps with old plastic sheeting from November through March to protect them from
Oregon's rainy winter climate. 

Understanding how much moisture to put into a pile soon becomes an intuitive certainty. Beginners
can gauge moisture content by squeezing a handful of material very hard. It should feel very
damp but only a few drops of moisture should be extractable. Industrial composters, who can
afford scientific guidance to optimize their activities, try to establish and maintain a laboratory-measured
moisture content of 50 to 60 percent by weight. When building a pile, keep in mind that certain
materials like fresh grass clippings and vegetable trimmings already contain close to 90 percent
moisture while dry components such as sawdust and straw may contain only 10 percent and resist
absorbing water at that. But, by thoroughly mixing wet and dry materials the overall moisture
content will quickly equalize. 

Size of the pile. It is much harder to keep a small object hot than a large one. That's because
the ratio of surface area to volume goes down as volume goes up. No matter how well other factors
encourage thermophiles, it is still difficult to make a pile heat up that is less than three
feet high and three feet in diameter. And a tiny pile like that one tends to heat only for
a short time and then cool off rapidly. Larger piles tend to heat much faster and remain hot
long enough to allow significant decomposition to occur. Most composters consider a four foot
cube to be a minimum practical size. Industrial or municipal composters build windrows up to
ten feet at the base, seven feet high, and as long as they want. 

However, even if you have unlimited material there is still a limit to the heap's size and
that limiting factor is air supply. The bigger the compost pile the harder it becomes to get
oxygen into the center. Industrial composters may have power equipment that simultaneously
turns and sprays water, mechanically oxygenating and remoistening a massive windrow every few
days. Even poorly-financed municipal composting systems have tractors with scoop loaders to
turn their piles frequently. At home the practical limit is probably a heap six or seven feet
wide at the base, initially about five feet high (it will rapidly slump a foot or so once heating
begins), and as long as one has material for. 

Though we might like to make our compost piles so large that maintaining sufficient airflow
becomes the major problem we face, the home composter rarely has enough materials on hand to
build a huge heap all at once. A single lawn mowing doesn't supply that many clippings; my
own kitchen compost bucket is larger and fills faster than anyone else's I know of but still
only amounts to a few gallons a week except during August when we're making jam, canning vegetables,
and juicing. Garden weeds are collected a wheelbarrow at a time. Leaves are seasonal. In the
East the annual vegetable garden clean-up happens after the fall frost. So almost inevitably,
you will be building a heap gradually. 

That's probably why most garden books illustrate compost heaps as though they were layer cakes:
a base layer of brush, twigs, and coarse stuff to allow air to enter, then alternating thin
layers of grass clippings, leaves, weeds, garbage, grass, weeds, garbage, and a sprinkling
of soil, repeated until the heap is five feet tall. It can take months to build a compost pile
this way because heating and decomposition begin before the pile is finished and it sags as
it is built. I recommend several practices when gradually forming a heap. 

Keep a large stack of dry, coarse vegetation next to a building pile. As kitchen garbage, grass
clippings, fresh manure or other wet materials come available the can be covered with and mixed
into this dry material. The wetter, greener items will rehydrate the dry vegetation and usually
contain more nitrogen that balances out the higher carbon of dried grass, tall weeds, and hay. 

If building the heap has taken several months, the lower central area will probably be well
on its way to becoming compost and much of the pile may have already dried out by the time
it is fully formed. So the best time make the first turn and remoisten a long-building pile
is right after it has been completed. 

Instead of picturing a layer cake, you will be better off comparing composting to making bread.
Flour, yeast, water, molasses, sunflower seeds, and oil aren't layered, they're thoroughly
blended and then kneaded and worked together so that the yeast can interact with the other
materials and bring about a miraculous chemistry that we call dough. 

Carbon to nitrogen ratio. C/N is the most important single aspect that controls both the heap's
ability to heat up and the quality of the compost that results. Piles composed primarily of
materials with a high ratio of carbon to nitrogen do not get very hot or stay hot long enough.
Piles made from materials with too low a C/N get too hot, lose a great deal of nitrogen and
may "burn out." 

The compost process generally works best when the heap's starting C/N is around 25:1. If sawdust,
straw, or woody hay form the bulk of the pile, it is hard to bring the C/N down enough with
just grass clippings and kitchen garbage. Heaps made essentially of high C/N materials need
significant additions of the most potent manures and/or highly concentrated organic nitrogen
sources like seed meals or slaughterhouse concentrates. The next chapter discusses the nature
and properties of materials used for composting in great detail. 

I have already stressed that filling this book with tables listing so-called precise amounts
of C/N for compostable materials would be foolish. Even more wasteful of energy would be the
composter's attempt to compute the ratio of carbon to nitrogen resulting from any mixture of
materials. For those who are interested, the sidebar provides an illustration of how that might
be done. 

Balancing C/N 

Here's a simple arithmetic problem that illustrates how to balance carbon to nitrogen. 

QUESTION: I have 100 pounds of straw with a C/N of 66:1, how much chicken manure (C/N of 8:1)
do I have to add to bring the total to an average C/N of 25:1. 

ANSWER: There is 1 pound of nitrogen already in each 66 pounds of straw, so there are already
about 1.5 pounds of N in 100 pounds of straw. 100 pounds of straw-compost at 25:1 would have
about 4 pounds of nitrogen, so I need to add about 2.5 more pounds of N. Eight pounds of chicken
manure contain 1 pound of N; 16 pounds have 2. So, if I add 32 pounds of chicken manure to
100 pounds of straw, I will have 132 pounds of material containing about 5.5 pounds of N, a
C/N of 132:5.5 or about 24:1. 

It is far more sensible to learn from experience. Gauge the proportions of materials going
into a heap by the result. If the pile gets really hot and stays that way for a few weeks before
gradually cooling down then the C/N was more or less right. If, after several turnings and
reheatings, the material has not thoroughly decomposed, then the initial C/N was probably too
high. The words "thoroughly decomposed" mean here that there are no recognizable traces of
the original materials in the heap and the compost is dark brown to black, crumbly, sweet smelling
and most importantly, when worked into soil it provokes a marked growth response, similar to
fertilizer. 

If the pile did not initially heat very much or the heating stage was very brief, then the
pile probably lacked nitrogen. The solution for a nitrogen-deficient pile is to turn it, simultaneously
blending in more nutrient-rich materials and probably a bit of water too. After a few piles
have been made novice composters will begin to get the same feel for their materials as bakers
have for their flour, shortening, and yeast. 

It is also possible to err on the opposite end of the scale and make a pile with too much nitrogen.
This heap will heat very rapidly, become as hot as the microbial population can tolerate, lose
moisture very quickly, and probably smell of ammonia, indicating that valuable fixed nitrogen
is escaping into the atmosphere. When proteins decompose their nitrogen content is normally
released as ammonia gas. Most people have smelled small piles of spring grass clippings doing
this very thing. Ammonia is always created when proteins decompose in any heap at any C/N.
But a properly made compost pile does not permit this valuable nitrogen source to escape. 

There are other bacteria commonly found in soil that uptake ammonia gas and change it to the
nitrates that plants and soil life forms need to make other proteins. These nitrification microorganisms
are extremely efficient at reasonable temperatures but cannot survive the extreme high temperatures
that a really hot pile can achieve. They also live only in soil. That is why it is very important
to ensure that about 10 percent of a compost pile is soil and to coat the outside of a pile
with a frosting of rich earth that is kept damp. One other aspect of soil helps prevent ammonia
loss. Clay is capable of attracting and temporarily holding on to ammonia until it is nitrified
by microorganisms. Most soils contain significant amounts of clay. 

The widespread presence of clay and ammonia-fixing bacteria in all soils permits industrial
farmers to inject gaseous ammonia directly into the earth where it is promptly and completely
altered into nitrates. A very hot pile leaking ammonia may contain too little soil, but more
likely it is also so hot that the nitrifying bacteria have been killed off. Escaping ammonia
is not only an offensive nuisance, valuable fertility is being lost into the atmosphere. 

Weather and season. You can adopt a number of strategies to keep weather from chilling a compost
pile. Wind both lowers temperature and dries out a pile, so if at all possible, make compost
in a sheltered location. Heavy, cold rains can chill and waterlog a pile. Composting under
a roof will also keep hot sun from baking moisture out of a pile in summer. Using bins or other
compost structures can hold in heat that might otherwise be lost from the sides of unprotected
heaps. 

It is much easier to maintain a high core temperature when the weather is warm. It may not
be so easy to make hot compost heaps during a northern winter. So in some parts of the country
I would not expect too much from a compost pile made from autumn cleanup. This stack of leaves
and frost-bitten garden plants may have to await the spring thaw, then to be mixed with potent
spring grass clippings and other nitrogenous materials in order to heat up and complete the
composting process. What to do with kitchen garbage during winter in the frozen North makes
an interesting problem and leads serious recyclers to take notice of vermicomposting. (See
Chapter 6.) 

In southern regions the heap may be prevented from overheating by making it smaller or not
as tall. Chapter Nine describes in great detail how Sir Albert Howard handled the problem of
high air temperature while making compost in India. 

The Fertilizing Value of Compost 

It is not possible for me to tell you how well your own homemade compost will fertilize plants.
Like home-brewed beer and home-baked bread you can be certain that your compost may be the
equal of or superior to almost any commercially made product and certainly will be better fertilizer
than the high carbon result of municipal solid waste composting. But first, let's consider
two semi-philosophical questions, "good for what?" and "poor as what?" 

Any compost is a "social good" if it conserves energy, saves space in landfills and returns
some nutrients and organic matter to the soil, whether for lawns, ornamental plantings, or
vegetable gardens. Compared to the fertilizer you would have purchased in its place, any homemade
compost will be a financial gain unless you buy expensive motor-powered grinding equipment
to produce only small quantities. 

Making compost is also a "personal good." For a few hours a year, composting gets you outside
with a manure fork in your hand, working up a sweat. You intentionally participate in a natural
cycle: the endless rotation of carbon from air to organic matter in the form of plants, to
animals, and finally all of it back into soil. You can observe the miraculous increase in plant
and soil health that happens when you intensify and enrich that cycle of carbon on land under
your control. 

So any compost is good compost. But will it be good fertilizer? Answering that question is
a lot harder: it depends on so many factors. The growth response you'll get from compost depends
on what went into the heap, on how much nitrate nitrogen was lost as ammonia during decomposition,
on how completely decomposition was allowed to proceed, and how much nitrate nitrogen was created
by microbes during ripening. 

The growth response from compost also depends on the soil's temperature. Just like every other
biological process, the nutrients in compost only GROW the plant when they decompose in the
soil and are released. Where summer is hot, where the average of day and night temperatures
are high, where soil temperatures reach 80 degree for much of the frost-free season, organic
matter rots really fast and a little compost of average quality makes a huge increase in plant
growth. Where summer is cool and soil organic matter decomposes slowly, poorer grades of compost
have little immediate effect, or worse, may temporarily interfere with plant growth. Hotter
soils are probably more desperate for organic matter and may give you a marked growth response
from even poor quality compost; soils in cool climates naturally contain higher quantities
of humus and need to be stoked with more potent materials if high levels of nutrients are to
be released. 

Compost is also reputed to make enormous improvements in the workability, or tilth of the soil.
This aspect of gardening is so important and so widely misunderstood, especially by organic
gardeners, that most of Chapter Seven is devoted to considering the roles of humus in the soil. 

GROWing the plant 

One of the things I enjoy most while gardening is GROWing some of my plants. I don't GROW them
all because there is no point in having giant parsley or making the corn patch get one foot
taller. Making everything get as large as possible wouldn't result in maximum nutrition either.
But just for fun, how about a 100-plus-pound pumpkin? A twenty-pound savoy cabbage? A cauliflower
sixteen inches in diameter? An eight-inch diameter beet? Now that's GROWing! 

Here's how. Simply remove as many growth limiters as possible and watch the plant's own efforts
take over. One of the best examples I've ever seen of how this works was in a neighbor's backyard
greenhouse. This retired welder liked his liquor. Having more time than money and little respect
for legal absurdities, he had constructed a small stainless steel pot still, fermented his
own mash, and made a harsh, hangover-producing whiskey from grain and cane sugar that Appalachians
call "popskull." To encourage rapid fermentation, his mashing barrel was kept in the warm greenhouse.
The bubbling brew gave off large quantities of carbon dioxide gas. 

The rest of his greenhouse was filled with green herbs that flowered fragrantly in September.
Most of them were four or five feet tall but those plants on the end housing the mash barrel
were seven feet tall and twice as bushy. Why? Because the normal level of atmospheric CO2 actually
limits plant growth. 

We can't increase the carbon supply outdoors. But we can loosen the soil eighteen to twenty-four
inches down (or more for deeply-rooting species) in an area as large as the plant's root system
could possibly ramify during its entire growing season. I've seen some GROWers dig holes four
feet deep and five feet in diameter for individual plants. We can use well-finished, strong
compost to increase the humus content of that soil, and supplement that with manure tea or
liquid fertilizer to provide all the nutrients the plant could possibly use. We can allocate
only one plant to that space and make sure absolutely no competition develops in that space
for light, water, or nutrients. We can keep the soil moist at all times. By locating the plant
against a reflective white wall we can increase its light levels and perhaps the nighttime
temperatures (plants make food during the day and use it to grow with at night). 

Textural improvements from compost depend greatly on soil type. Sandy and loamy soils naturally
remain open and workable and sustain good tilth with surprisingly small amounts of organic
matter. Two or three hundred pounds (dry weight) of compost per thousand square feet per year
will keep coarse-textured soils in wonderful physical condition. This small amount of humus
is also sufficient to encourage the development of a lush soil ecology that creates the natural
health of plants. 

Silty soils, especially ones with more clay content, tend to become compacted and when low
in humus will crust over and puddle when it rains hard. These may need a little more compost,
perhaps in the range of three to five hundred pounds per thousand square feet per year. 

Clay soils on the other hand are heavy and airless, easily compacted, hard to work, and hard
to keep workable. The mechanical properties of clay soils greatly benefit from additions of
organic matter several times larger than what soils composed of larger particles need. Given
adequate organic matter, even a heavy clay can be made to behave somewhat like a rich loam does. 

Perhaps you've noticed that I've still avoided answering the question, "how good is your compost?"
First, lets take a look at laboratory analyses of various kinds of compost, connect that to
what they were made from and that to the kind of growing results one might get from them. I
apologize that despite considerable research I was unable to discover more detailed breakdowns
from more composting activities. But the data I do have is sufficient to appreciate the range
of possibilities. 

Considered as a fertilizer to GROW plants, Municipal Solid Waste (MSW) compost is the lowest
grade material I know of. It is usually broadcast as a surface mulch. The ingredients municipal
composters must process include an indiscriminate mixture of all sorts of urban organic waste:
paper, kitchen garbage, leaves, chipped tree trimmings, commercial organic garbage like restaurant
waste, cannery wastes, etc. Unfortunately, paper comprises the largest single ingredient and
it is by nature highly resistant to decomposition. MSW composting is essentially a recycling
process, so no soil, no manure and no special low C/N sources are used to improve the fertilizing
value of the finished product. 

Municipal composting schemes usually must process huge volumes of material on very valuable
land close to cities. Economics mean the heaps are made as large as possible, run as fast as
possible, and gotten off the field without concern for developing their highest qualities.
Since it takes a long time to reduce large proportions of carbon, especially when they are
in very decomposition-resistant forms like paper, and since the use of soil in the compost
heap is essential to prevent nitrate loss, municipal composts tend to be low in nitrogen and
high in carbon. By comparison, the poorest home garden compost I could find test results for
was about equal to the best municipal compost. The best garden sample ("B") is pretty fine
stuff. I could not discover the ingredients that went into either garden compost but my supposition
is that gardener "A" incorporated large quantities of high C/N materials like straw, sawdust
and the like while gardener "B" used manure, fresh vegetation, grass clippings and other similar
low C/N materials. The next chapter will evaluate the suitability of materials commonly used
to make compost.

Analyses of Various Composts 

Source                       N%   P%   K%   Ca%  C/N 

Vegetable trimmings & paper  1.57 0.40 0.40      24:1  Municipal refuse             0.97 0.16
0.21      24:1  Johnson City refuse          0.91 0.22 0.91 1.91 36:1  Gainsville, FL refuse
0.57 0.26 0.22 1.88 ?  Garden compost "A"           1.40 0.30 0.40      25:1  Garden compost
"B"           3.50 1.00 2.00      10:1 

To interpret this chart, let's make as our standard of comparison the actual gardening results
from some very potent organic material I and probably many of my readers have probably used:
bagged chicken manure compost. The most potent I've ever purchased is inexpensively sold in
one-cubic-foot plastic sacks stacked up in front of my local supermarket every spring. The
sacks are labeled 4-3-2. I've successfully grown quite a few huge, handsome, and healthy vegetables
with this product. I've also tried other similar sorts also labeled "chicken manure compost"
that are about half as potent.

From many years of successful use I know that 15 to 20 sacks (about 300-400 dry-weight pounds)
of 4-3-2 chicken compost spread and tilled into one thousand square feet will grow a magnificent
garden. Most certainly a similar amount of the high analysis Garden "B" compost would do about
the same job. Would three times as much less potent compost from Garden "A" or five times as
much even poorer stuff from the Johnson City municipal composting operation do as well? Not
at all! Neither would three times as many sacks of dried steer manure. Here's why. 

If composted organic matter is spread like mulch atop the ground on lawns or around ornamentals
and allowed to remain there its nitrogen content and C/N are not especially important. Even
if the C/N is still high soil animals will continue the job of decomposition much as happens
on the forest floor. Eventually their excrement will be transported into the soil by earthworms.
By that time the C/N will equal that of other soil humus and no disruption will occur to the
soil's process. 

Growing vegetables is much more demanding than growing most perennial ornamentals or lawns.
Excuse me, flower gardeners, but I've observed that even most flowers will thrive if only slight
improvements are made in their soil. The same is true for most herbs. Difficulties with ornamentals
or herbs are usually caused by attempting to grow a species that is not particularly well-adapted
to the site or climate. Fertilized with sacked steer manure or mulched with average-to-poor
compost, most ornamentals will grow adequately. 

But vegetables are delicate, pampered critters that must grow as rapidly as they can grow if
they are to be succulent, tasty, and yield heavily. Most of them demand very high levels of
available nutrients as well as soft, friable soil containing reasonable levels of organic matter.
So it is extremely important that a vegetable gardener understand the inevitable disruption
occurring when organic matter that has a C/N is much above 12:1 is tilled into soil. 

Organic matter that has been in soil for a while has been altered into a much studied substance,
humus. We know for example that humus always has a carbon to nitrogen ratio of from 10:1 to
about 12:1, just like compost from Garden "B." Garden writers call great compost like this,
"stable humus," because it is slow to decompose. Its presence in soil steadily feeds a healthy
ecology of microorganisms important to plant health, and whose activity accelerates release
of plant nutrients from undecomposed rock particles. Humus is also fertilizer because its gradual
decomposition provides mineral nutrients that make plants grow. The most important of these
nutrients is nitrate nitrogen, thus soil scientists may call humus decomposition "nitrification." 

When organic material with a C/N below 12:1 is mixed into soil its breakdown is very rapid.
Because it contains more nitrogen than stable humus does, nitrogen is rapidly released to feed
the plants and soil life. Along with nitrogen comes other plant nutrients. This accelerated
nitrification continues until the remaining nitrogen balances with the remaining carbon at
a ratio of about 12:1. Then the soil returns to equilibrium. The lower the C/N the more rapid
the release, and the more violent the reaction in the soil. Most low C/N organic materials,
like seed meal or chicken manure, rapidly release nutrients for a month or two before stabilizing.
What has been described here is fertilizer. 

When organic material with a C/N higher than 12:1 is tilled into soil, soil animals and microorganisms
find themselves with an unsurpassed carbohydrate banquet. Just as in a compost heap, within
days bacteria and fungi can multiply to match any food supply. But to construct their bodies
these microorganisms need the same nutrients that plants need to grow--nitrogen, potassium,
phosphorus, calcium, magnesium, etc. There are never enough of these nutrients in high C/N
organic matter to match the needs of soil bacteria, especially never enough nitrogen, so soil
microorganisms uptake these nutrients from the soil's reserves while they "bloom" and rapidly
consume all the new carbon presented to them. 

During this period of rapid decomposition the soil is thoroughly robbed of plant nutrients.
And nitrification stops. Initially, a great deal of carbon dioxide gas may be given off, as
carbon is metabolically "burned." However, CO2 in high concentrations can be toxic to sprouting
seeds and consequently, germination failures may occur. When I was in the seed business I'd
get a few complaints every year from irate gardeners demanding to know why every seed packet
they sowed failed to come up well. There were two usual causes. Either before sowing all the
seeds were exposed to temperatures above 110 degree or more likely, a large quantity of high
C/N "manure" was tilled into the garden just before sowing. In soil so disturbed transplants
may also fail to grow for awhile. If the "manure" contains a large quantity of sawdust the
soil will seem very infertile for a month or three. 

Sir Albert Howard had a unique and pithy way of expressing this reality. He said that soil
was not capable of working two jobs at once. You could not expect it to nitrify humus while
it was also being required to digest organic matter. That's one reason he thought composting
was such a valuable process. The digestion of organic matter proceeds outside the soil; when
finished product, humus, is ready for nitrification, it is tilled in. 

Rapid consumption of carbon continues until the C/N of the new material drops to the range
of stable humus. Then decay microorganisms die off and the nutrients they hoarded are released
back into the soil. How long the soil remains inhospitable to plant growth and seed germination
depends on soil temperature, the amount of the material and how high its C/N is, and the amount
of nutrients the soil is holding in reserve. The warmer and more fertile the soil was before
the addition of high C/N organic matter, the faster it will decompose. 

Judging by the compost analyses in the table, I can see why some municipalities are having
difficulty disposing of the solid waste compost they are making. One governmental composting
operation that does succeed in selling everything they can produce is Lane County, Oregon.
Their yard waste compost is eagerly paid for by local gardeners. Lane County compost is made
only from autumn leaves, grass clippings, and other yard wastes. No paper! 

Yard waste compost is a product much like a homeowner would produce. And yard waste compost
contains no industrial waste or any material that might pose health threats. All woody materials
are finely chipped before composting and comprise no more than 20 percent of the total undecayed
mass by weight. Although no nutrient analysis has been done by the county other than testing
for pH (around 7.0) and, because of the use of weed and feed fertilizers on lawns, for 2-4D
(no residual trace ever found present), I estimate that the overall C/N of the materials going
into the windrows at 25:1. I wouldn't be surprised if the finished compost has a C/N close
to 12:1. 

Incidentally, Lane County understands that many gardeners don't have pickup trucks. They reasonably
offer to deliver their compost for a small fee if at least one yard is purchased. Other local
governments also make and deliver yard waste compost. 

So what about your own home compost? If you are a flower, ornamental, or lawn grower, you have
nothing to worry about. Just compost everything you have available and use all you wish to
make. If tilling your compost into soil seems to slow the growth of plants, then mulch with
it and avoid tilling it in, or adjust the C/N down by adding fertilizers like seed meal when
tilling it in. 

If you are a vegetable gardener and your compost doesn't seem to provoke the kind of growth
response you hoped for, either shallowly till in compost in the fall for next year's planting,
by which time it will have become stable humus, or read further. The second half of this book
contains numerous hints about how to make potent compost and about how to use complete organic
fertilizers in combination with compost to grow the lushest garden imaginable. 

CHAPTER FOUR 

All About Materials 

In most parts of the country, enough organic materials accumulate around an average home and
yard to make all the compost a backyard garden needs. You probably have weeds, leaves, perhaps
your own human hair (my wife is the family barber), dust from the vacuum cleaner, kitchen garbage
and grass clippings. But, there may not be enough to simultaneously build the lushest lawn,
the healthiest ornamentals and grow the vegetables. If you want to make more compost than your
own land allows, it is not difficult to find very large quantities of organic materials that
are free or cost very little. 

The most obvious material to bring in for composting is animal manure. Chicken and egg raisers
and boarding stables often give manure away or sell it for a nominal fee. For a few dollars
most small scale animal growers will cheerfully use their scoop loader to fill your pickup
truck till the springs sag. 

As useful as animal manure can be in a compost pile, there are other types of low C/N materials
too. Enormous quantities of loose alfalfa accumulate around hay bale stacks at feed and grain
stores. To the proprietor this dusty chaff is a nuisance gladly given to anyone that will neatly
sweep it up and truck it away. To the home gardener, alfalfa in any form is rich as gold. 

Some years, rainy Oregon weather is still unsettled at haying season and farmers are stuck
with spoiled hay. I'm sure this happens most places that grass hay is grown on natural rainfall.
Though a shrewd farmer may try to sell moldy hay at a steep discount by representing it to
still have feed value, actually these ruined bales must be removed from a field before they
interfere with working the land. A hard bargainer can often get spoiled hay in exchange for
hauling the wet bales out of the field 

There's one local farmer near me whose entire family tree holds a well-deserved reputation
for hard, self-interested dealing. One particularly wet, cool unsettled haying season, after
starting the spoiled-hay dicker at 90 cents per bale asked--nothing offered but hauling the
soggy bales out of the field my offer--I finally agreed to take away about twenty tons at ten
cents per bale. This small sum allowed the greedy b-----to feel he had gotten the better of
me. He needed that feeling far more than I needed to win the argument or to keep the few dollars
Besides, the workings of self-applied justice that some religious philosophers call karma show
that over the long haul the worst thing one person can do to another is to allow the other
to get away with an evil act. 

Any dedicated composter can make contacts yielding cheap or free organic materials by the ton.
Orchards may have badly bruised or rotting fruit. Small cider mills, wineries, or a local juice
bar restaurant may be glad to get rid of pomace. Carpentry shops have sawdust. Coffee roasters
have dust and chaff. The microbrewery is becoming very popular these days; mall-scale local
brewers and distillers may have spent hops and mash. Spoiled product or chaff may be available
from cereal mills. 

City governments often will deliver autumn leaves by the ton and will give away or sell the
output of their own municipal composting operations. Supermarkets, produce wholesalers, and
restaurants may be willing to give away boxes of trimmings and spoiled food. Barbers and poodle
groomers throw away hair. 

Seafood processors will sell truckloads of fresh crab, fish and shrimp waste for a small fee.
Of course, this material becomes evil-smelling in very short order but might be relatively
inoffensive if a person had a lot of spoiled hay or sawdust waiting to mix into it. Market
gardeners near the Oregon coast sheet-compost crab waste, tilling it into the soil before it
gets too "high." Other parts of the country might supply citrus wastes, sugar cane bagasse,
rice hulls, etc. 

About Common Materials 

Alfalfa is a protein-rich perennial legume mainly grown as animal feed. On favorable soil it
develops a deep root system, sometimes exceeding ten feet. Alfalfa draws heavily on subsoil
minerals so it will be as rich or poor in nutrients as the subsoil it grew in. Its average
C/N is around 12:1 making alfalfa useful to compensate for larger quantities of less potent
material. Sacked alfalfa meal or pellets are usually less expensive (and being "stemmy," have
a slightly higher C/N) than leafy, best-quality baled alfalfa hay. Rain-spoiled bales of alfalfa
hay are worthless as animal feed but far from valueless to the composter. 

Pelletized rabbit feed is largely alfalfa fortified with grain. Naturally, rabbit manure has
a C/N very similar to alfalfa and is nutrient rich, especially if some provision is made to
absorb the urine. 

Apple pomace is wet and compact. If not well mixed with stiff, absorbent material, large clumps
of this or other fruit wastes can become airless regions of anaerobic decomposition. Having
a high water content can be looked upon as an advantage. Dry hay and sawdust can be hard to
moisten thoroughly; these hydrate rapidly when mixed with fruit pulp. Fermenting fruit pulp
attracts yellow jackets so it is sensible to incorporate it quickly into a pile and cover well
with vegetation or soil. 

The watery pulp of fruits is not particularly rich in nutrients but apple, grape, and pear
pulps are generously endowed with soft, decomposable seeds. Most seeds contain large quantities
of phosphorus, nitrogen, and other plant nutrients. It is generally true that plants locate
much of their entire yearly nutrient assimilation into their seeds to provide the next generation
with the best possible start. Animals fed on seeds (such as chickens) produce the richest manures. 

Older books about composting warn about metallic pesticide residues adhering to fruit skins.
However, it has been nearly half a century since arsenic and lead arsenate were used as pesticides
and mercury is no longer used in fungicides. 

Bagasse is the voluminous waste product from extracting cane sugar. Its C/N is extremely high,
similar to wheat straw or sawdust, and it contains very little in the way of plant nutrients.
However, its coarse, strong, fibrous structure helps build lightness into a pile and improve
air flow. Most sugar mills burn bagasse as their heat source to evaporate water out of the
sugary juice squeezed from the canes. At one time there was far more bagasse produced than
the mills needed to burn and bagasse often became an environmental pollutant. Then, bagasse
was available for nothing or next to nothing. These days, larger, modern mills generate electricity
with bagasse and sell their surplus to the local power grid. Bagasse is also used to make construction
fiberboard for subwall and insulation. 

Banana skins and stalks are soft and lack strong fiber. They are moderately rich in phosphorus,
potassium, and nitrogen. Consequently they rot quickly. Like other kitchen garbage, banana
waste should be put into the core of a compost pile to avoid attracting and breeding flies.
See also: Garbage. 

Basic slag is an industrial waste from smelting iron. Ore is refined by heating it with limestone
and dolomite. The impurities combine with calcium and magnesium, rise to the surface of the
molten metal, and are skimmed off. Basic slag contains quite a bit of calcium plus a variety
of useful plant nutrients not usually found in limestone. Its exact composition varies greatly
depending on the type of ore used. 

Slag is pulverized and sold in sacks as a substitute for agricultural lime. The intense biological
activity of a compost pile releases more of slag's other mineral content and converts its nutrients
to organic substances that become rapidly available once the compost is incorporated into soil.
Other forms of powdered mineralized rock can be similarly added to a compost pile to accelerate
nutrient release. 

Rodale Press, publisher of Organic Gardening magazine is located in Pennsylvania where steel
mills abound. Having more experience with slag, Rodale advises the user to be alert to the
fact that some contain little in the way of useful nutrients and/or may contain excessive amounts
of sulfur. Large quantities of sulfur can acidify soil. Read the analysis on the label. Agriculturally
useful slag has an average composition of 40 percent calcium and 5 percent magnesium. It must
also be very finely ground to be effective. See also: Lime and Rock dust. 

Beet wastes, like bagasse, are a residue of extracting sugar. They have commercial value as
livestock feed and are sold as dry pulp in feed stores located near regions where sugar beets
are grown. Their C/N is in the vicinity of 20:1 and they may contain high levels of potassium,
reaching as much as 4 percent. 

Brewery wastes. Both spent hops (dried flowers and leaves) and malt (sprouted barley and often
other grains) are potent nutrient sources with low C/N ratios. Spent malt is especially potent
because brewers extract all the starches and convert them to sugar, but consider the proteins
as waste because proteins in the brew make it cloudy and opaque. Hops may be easier to get.
Malt has uses as animal feed and may be contracted for by some local feedlot or farmer. These
materials will be wet, heavy and frutily odoriferous (though not unpleasantly so) and you will
want to incorporate them into your compost pile immediately. 

Buckwheat hulls. Buckwheat is a grain grown in the northeastern United States and Canada. Adapted
to poor, droughty soils, the crop is often grown as a green manure. The seeds are enclosed
in a thin-walled, brown to black fibrous hulls that are removed at a groat mill. Buckwheat
hulls are light, springy, and airy. They'll help fluff up a compost heap. Buckwheat hulls are
popular as a mulch because they adsorb moisture easily, look attractive, and stay in place.
Their C/N is high. Oat and rice hulls are similar products. 

Canola meal. See: Cottonseed meal. 

Castor pomace is pulp left after castor oil has been squeezed from castor bean seeds. Like
other oil seed residues it is very high in nitrogen, rich in other plant nutrients, particularly
phosphorus, Castor pomace may be available in the deep South; it makes a fine substitute for
animal manure. 

Citrus wastes may be available to gardeners living near industrial processors of orange, lemon,
and grapefruit. In those regions, dried citrus pulp may also be available in feed stores. Dried
orange skins contain about 3 percent phosphorus and 27 percent potassium. Lemons are a little
higher in phosphorus but lower in potassium. Fruit culls would have a similar nutrient ratio
on a dry weight basis, but they are largely water. Large quantities of culls could be useful
to hydrate stubbornly dry materials like straw or sawdust. 

Like other byproducts of industrial farming, citrus wastes may contain significant amounts
of pesticide residues. The composting process will break down and eliminate most toxic organic
residues, especially if the pile gets really hot through and through. (See also: Leaves) The
effect of such high levels of potassium on the nutritional qualities of my food would also
concern me if the compost I was making from these wastes were used for vegetable gardening. 

Coffee grounds are nutrient-rich like other seed meals. Even after brewing they can contain
up to 2 percent nitrogen, about 1/2 percent phosphorus and varying amounts of potassium usually
well below 1 percent. Its C/N runs around 12:1. Coffee roasters and packers need to dispose
of coffee chaff, similar in nutrient value to used grounds and may occasionally have a load
of overly roasted beans. 

Coffee grounds seem the earthworm's food of choice. In worm bins, used grounds are more vigorously
devoured than any other substance. If slight odor is a consideration, especially if doing in-the-home
vermicomposting, coffee grounds should be incorporated promptly into a pile to avoid the souring
that results from vinegar-producing bacteria. Fermenting grounds may also attract harmless
fruit flies. Paper filters used to make drip coffee may be put into the heap or worm box where
they contribute to the bedding. See also: Paper. 

Corncobs are no longer available as an agricultural waste product because modern harvesting
equipment shreds them and spits the residue right back into the field. However, home gardeners
who fancy sweet corn may produce large quantities of cobs. Whole cobs will aerate compost heaps
but are slow to decompose. If you want your pile ready within one year, it is better to dry
and then grind the cobs before composting them. 

Cottonseed meal is one of this country's major oil seed residues. The seed is ginned out of
the cotton fiber, ground, and then its oil content is chemically extracted. The residue, sometimes
called oil cake or seed cake, is very high in protein and rich in NPK. Its C/N runs around
5:1, making it an excellent way to balance a compost pile containing a lot of carboniferous
materials. 

Most cottonseed meal is used as animal feed, especially for beef and dairy cattle. Purchased
in garden stores in small containers it is very expensive; bought by the 50-to 80-pound sack
from feed stores or farm coops, cottonseed meal and other oil seed meals are quite inexpensive.
Though prices of these types of commodities vary from year to year, oil cakes of all kinds
usually cost between $200 to $400 per ton and only slightly higher purchased sacked in less-than-ton
lots. 

The price of any seed meal is strongly influenced by freight costs. Cottonseed meal is cheapest
in the south and the southwest where cotton is widely grown. Soybean meal may be more available
and priced better in the midwest. Canadian gardeners are discovering canola meal, a byproduct
from producing canola (or rapeseed) oil. When I took a sabbatical in Fiji, I advised local
gardeners to use coconut meal, an inexpensive "waste" from extracting coconut oil. And I would
not be at all surprised to discover gardeners in South Dakota using sunflower meal. Sesame
seed, safflower seed, peanut and oil-seed corn meals may also be available in certain localities. 

Seed meals make an ideal starting point for compounding complete organic fertilizer mixes.
The average NPK analysis of most seed meals is around 6-4-2. Considered as a fertilizer, oil
cakes are somewhat lacking in phosphorus and sometimes in trace minerals. By supplementing
them with materials like bone meal, phosphate rock, kelp meal, sometimes potassium-rich rock
dusts and lime or gypsum, a single, wide-spectrum slow-release trace-mineral-rich organic fertilizer
source can be blended at home having an analysis of about 5-5-5. Cottonseed meal is particularly
excellent for this purpose because it is a dry, flowing, odorless material that stores well.
I suspect that cottonseed meal from the southwest may be better endowed with trace minerals
than that from leached-out southeastern soils or soy meal from depleted midwestern farms. See
the last section of Chapter Eight. 

Some organic certification bureaucracies foolishly prohibit or discourage the use of cottonseed
meal as a fertilizer. The rationale behind this rigid self-righteousness is that cotton, being
a nonfood crop, is sprayed with heavy applications of pesticides and/or herbicides that are
so hazardous that they not permitted on food crops. These chemicals are usually dissolved in
an emulsified oil-based carrier and the cotton plant naturally concentrates pesticide residues
and breakdown products into the oily seed. 

I believe that this concern is accurate as far as pesticide residues being translocated into
the seed. However, the chemical process used to extract cottonseed oil is very efficient The
ground seeds are mixed with a volatile solvent similar to ether and heated under pressure in
giant retorts. I reason that when the solvent is squeezed from the seed, it takes with it all
not only the oil, but, I believe, virtually all of the pesticide residues. Besides, any remaining
organic toxins will be further destroyed by the biological activity of the soil and especially
by the intense heat of a compost pile. 

What I personally worry about is cottonseed oil. I avoid prepared salad dressings that may
contain cottonseed oil, as well as many types of corn and potato chips, tinned oysters, and
other prepared food products. I also suggest that you peek into the back of your favorite Oriental
and fast food restaurants and see if there aren't stacks of ten gallon cottonseed oil cans
waiting to fill the deep-fat fryer. I fear this sort of meal as dangerous to my health. If
you still fear that cottonseed meal is also a dangerous product then you certainly won't want
to be eating feedlot beef or drinking milk or using other dairy products from cattle fed on
cottonseed meal. 

Blood meal runs 10-12 percent nitrogen and contains significant amounts of phosphorus. It is
the only organic fertilizer that is naturally water soluble. Blood meal, like other slaughterhouse
wastes, may be too expensive for use as a compost activator. 

Sprinkled atop soil as a side-dressing, dried blood usually provokes a powerful and immediate
growth response. Blood meal is so potent that it is capable of burning plants; when applied
you must avoid getting it on leaves or stems. Although principally a source of nitrogen, I
reason that there are other nutritional substances like growth hormones or complex organic
"phytamins" in blood meal. British glasshouse lettuce growers widely agree that lettuce sidedressed
with blood meal about three weeks before harvest has a better "finish," a much longer shelf-life,
and a reduced tendency to "brown butt" compared to lettuce similarly fertilized with urea or
chemical nitrate sources. 

Feathers are the birds' equivalent of hair on animals and have similar properties. See Hair 

Fish and shellfish waste. These proteinaceous, high-nitrogen and trace-mineral-rich materials
are readily available at little or no cost in pickup load lots from canneries and sea food
processors. However, in compost piles, large quantities of these materials readily putrefy,
make the pile go anaerobic, emit horrid odors, and worse, attract vermin and flies. To avoid
these problems, fresh seafood wastes must be immediately mixed with large quantities of dry,
high C/N material. There probably are only a few homestead composters able to utilize a ton
or two of wet fish waste at one time. 

Oregonians pride themselves for being tolerant, slow-to-take-offense neighbors. Along the Oregon
coast, small-scale market gardeners will thinly spread shrimp or crab waste atop a field and
promptly till it in. Once incorporated in the soil, the odor rapidly dissipates. In less than
one week. 

Fish meal is a much better alternative for use around the home. Of course, you have to have
no concern for cost and have your mind fixed only on using the finest possible materials to
produce the nutritionally finest food when electing to substitute fish meal for animal manures
or oil cakes. Fish meal is much more potent than cottonseed meal. Its typical nutrient analysis
runs 9-6-4. However, figured per pound of nutrients they contain, seed meals are a much less
expensive way to buy NPK. Fish meal is also mildly odoriferous. The smell is nothing like wet
seafood waste, but it can attract cats, dogs, and vermin. 

What may make fish meal worth the trouble and expense is that sea water is the ultimate depository
of all water-soluble nutrients that were once in the soil. Animals and plants living in the
sea enjoy complete, balanced nutrition. Weston Price's classic book, Nutrition and Physical
Degeneration, attributes nearly perfect health to humans who made seafoods a significant portion
of their diets. Back in the 1930s--before processed foods were universally available in the
most remote locations-people living on isolated sea coasts tended to live long, have magnificent
health, and perfect teeth. See also: Kelp meal. 

Garbage. Most forms of kitchen waste make excellent compost. But Americans foolishly send megatons
of kitchen garbage to landfills or overburden sewage treatment plants by grinding garbage in
a disposal. The average C/N of garbage is rather low so its presence in a compost heap facilitates
the decomposition of less potent materials. Kitchen garbage can also be recycled in other ways
such as vermicomposting (worm boxes) and burying it in the garden in trenches or post holes.
These alternative composting methods will be discussed in some detail later. 

Putting food scraps and wastes down a disposal is obviously the least troublesome and apparently
the most "sanitary" method, passing the problem on to others. Handled with a little forethought,
composting home food waste will not breed flies or make the kitchen untidy or ill smelling.
The most important single step in keeping the kitchen clean and free of odor is to put wastes
in a small plastic bucket or other container of one to two gallons in size, and empty it every
few days. Periodically adding a thin layer of sawdust or peat moss supposedly helps to prevent
smells. In our kitchen, we've found that covering the compost bucket is no alternative to emptying
it. When incorporating kitchen wastes into a compost pile, spread them thinly and cover with
an inch or two of leaves, dry grass, or hay to adsorb wetness and prevent access by flies.
It may be advisable to use a vermin-tight composting bin. 

Granite dust. See Rock dust. 

Grape wastes. See Apple pomace. 

Grass clippings. Along with kitchen garbage, grass clippings are the compostable material most
available to the average homeowner. Even if you (wisely) don't compost all of your clippings
(see sidebar), your foolish neighbors may bag theirs up for you to take away. If you mulch
with grass clippings, make sure the neighbors aren't using "weed and feed" type fertilizers,
or the clippings may cause the plants that are mulched to die. Traces of the those types of
broadleaf herbicides allowed in "weed and feed" fertilizers, are thoroughly decomposed in the
composting process. 

It is not necessary to return every bit of organic matter to maintain a healthy lawn. Perhaps
one-third to one-half the annual biomass production may be taken away and used for composting
without seriously depleting the lawn's vigor--especially if one application of a quality fertilizer
is given to the lawn each year. Probably the best time of year to remove clippings is during
the spring while the grass is growing most rapidly. Once a clover/grass mix is established
it is less necessary to use nitrogen fertilizers. In fact, high levels of soil nitrates reduces
the clover's ability to fix atmospheric nitrogen. However, additions of other mineral nutrients
like phosphorus, potassium, and especially calcium may still be necessary. 

Lawn health is similar to garden health. Both depend on the presence of large enough quantities
of organic material in the soil. This organic matter holds a massive reserve of nutrition built
up over the years by the growing plants themselves. When, for reasons of momentary aesthetics,
we bag up and remove clippings from our lawn, we prevent the grass from recycling its own fertility.

It was once mistakenly believed that unraked lawn clippings built up on the ground as unrotted
thatch, promoting harmful insects and diseases. This is a half-truth. Lawns repeatedly fertilized
with sulfur-based chemical fertilizers, especially ammonium sulfate and superphosphate, become
so acid and thus so hostile to bacterial decomposition and soil animals that a thatch of unrotted
clippings and dead sod can build up and thus promote disease and insect problems. 

However, lawns given lime or gypsum to supply calcium that is so vital to the healthy growth
of clover, and seed meals and/or dressings of finely decomposed compost or manure become naturally
healthy. Clippings falling on such a lawn rot rapidly because of the high level of microorganisms
in the soil, and disappear in days. Dwarf white clover can produce all the nitrate nitrogen
that grasses need to stay green and grow lustily. Once this state of health is developed, broadleaf
weeds have a hard time competing with the lusty grass/clover sod and gradually disappear. Fertilizing
will rarely be necessary again if little biomass is removed. 

Homeowners who demand the spiffy appearance of a raked lawn but still want a healthy lawn have
several options. They may compost their grass clippings and then return the compost to the
lawn. They may use a side-discharge mower and cut two days in succession. The first cut will
leave rows of clippings to dry on the lawn; the second cut will disintegrate those clippings
and pretty much make them disappear. Finally, there are "mulching" mowers with blades that
chop green grass clippings into tiny pieces and drops them below the mower where they are unnoticeable.

Grass clippings, especially spring grass, are very high in nitrogen, similar to the best horse
or cow manure. Anyone who has piled up fresh grass clippings has noticed how rapidly they heat
up, how quickly the pile turns into a slimy, airless, foul-smelling anaerobic mess, and how
much ammonia may be given off. Green grass should be thoroughly dispersed into a pile, with
plenty of dry material. Reserve bags of leaves from the fall or have a bale of straw handy
to mix in if needed. Clippings allowed to sun dry for a few days before raking or bagging behave
much better in the compost heap. 

Greensand. See Rock dust. 

Hair contains ten times the nitrogen of most manures. It resists absorbing moisture and readily
compresses, mats, and sheds water, so hair needs to be mixed with other wetter materials. If
I had easy access to a barber shop, beauty salon, or poodle grooming business, I'd definitely
use hair in my compost. Feathers, feather meal and feather dust (a bird's equivalent to hair)
have similar qualities. 

Hay. In temperate climates, pasture grasses go through an annual cycle that greatly changes
their nutrient content. Lawn grasses are not very different. The first cuttings of spring grass
are potent sources of nitrogen, high in protein and other vital mineral nutrients. In fact,
spring grass may be as good an animal feed as alfalfa or other legume hay. Young ryegrass,
for example, may exceed two percent nitrogen-equaling about 13 percent protein. That's why
cattle and horses on fresh spring grass frisk around and why June butter is so dark yellow,
vitamin-rich and good-flavored. 

In late spring, grasses begin to form seed and their chemical composition changes. With the
emergence of the seed stalk, nitrogen content drops markedly and the leaves become more fibrous,
ligninous, and consequently, more reluctant to decompose. At pollination ryegrass has dropped
to about l percent nitrogen and by the time mature seed has developed, to about 0.75 percent. 

These realities have profound implications for hay-making, for using grasses as green manures,
and for evaluating the C/N of hay you may be planning to use in a compost heap. In earlier
times, making grass hay that would be nutritious enough to maintain the health of cattle required
cutting the grass before, or just at, the first appearance of seed stalks. Not only did early
harvesting greatly reduce the bulk yield, it usually meant that without concern for cost or
hours of labor the grass had to be painstakingly dried at a time of year when there were more
frequent rains and lower temperatures. In nineteenth-century England, drying grass was draped
by hand over low hurdles, dotting each pasture with hundreds of small racks that shed water
like thatched roofs and allowed air flow from below. It is obvious to me where the sport of
running hurdles came from; I envision energetic young countryfolk, pepped up on that rich spring
milk and the first garden greens of the year, exuberantly racing each other across the just-mowed
fields during haying season. 

In more recent years, fresh wet spring grass was packed green into pits and made into silage
where a controlled anaerobic fermentation retained its nutritional content much like sauerkraut
keeps cabbage. Silage makes drying unnecessary. These days, farm labor is expensive and tractors
are relatively inexpensive. It seems that grass hay must be cut later when the weather is more
stable, economically dried on the ground, prevented from molding by frequent raking, and then
baled mechanically. 

In regions enjoying relatively rainless springs or where agriculture depends on irrigation,
this system may result in quality hay. But most modern farmers must supplement the low-quality
hay with oil cakes or other concentrates. Where I live, springs are cool and damp and the weather
may not stabilize until mid-June. By this date grass seed is already formed and beginning to
dry down. This means our local grass hay is very low in protein, has a high C/N, and is very
woody--little better than wheat straw. Pity the poor horses and cattle that must try to extract
enough nutrition from this stuff. 

Western Oregon weather conditions also mean that farmers often end up with rain-spoiled hay
they are happy to sell cheaply. Many years I've made huge compost piles largely from this kind
of hay. One serious liability from cutting grass hay late is that it will contain viable seeds.
If the composting process does not thoroughly heat all of these seeds, the compost will sprout
grass all over the garden. One last difficulty with poor quality grass hay: the tough, woody
stems are reluctant to absorb moisture. 

The best way to simultaneously overcome all of these liabilities is first to permit the bales
to thoroughly spoil and become moldy through and through before composting them. When I have
a ton or two of spoiled hay bales around, I spread them out on the ground in a single layer
and leave them in the rain for an entire winter. Doing this sprouts most of the grass seed
within the bales, thoroughly moistens the hay, and initiates decomposition. Next summer I pick
up this material, remove the baling twine, and mix it into compost piles with plenty of more
nitrogenous stuff. 

One last word about grass and how it works when green manuring. If a thick stand of grasses
is tilled in during spring before seed formation begins, its high nitrogen content encourages
rapid decomposition. Material containing 2 percent nitrogen and lacking a lot of tough fiber
can be totally rotted and out of the way in two weeks, leaving the soil ready to plant. This
variation on green manuring works like a charm. 

However, if unsettled weather conditions prevent tillage until seed formation has begun, the
grasses will contain much less nitrogen and will have developed a higher content of resistant
lignins. If the soil does not become dry and large reserves of nitrogen are already waiting
in the soil to balance the high C/N of mature grass, it may take only a month to decompose
But there will be so much decomposition going on for the first few weeks that even seed germination
is inhibited. Having to wait an unexpected month or six weeks after wet weather prevented forming
an early seed bed may delay sowing for so long that the season is missed for the entire year.
Obstacles like this must be kept in mind when considering using green manuring as a soil-building
technique. Cutting the grass close to the soil line and composting the vegetation off the field
eliminates this problem. 

Hoof and horn meal. Did you know that animals construct their hooves and horns from compressed
hair? The meal is similar in nutrient composition to blood meal, leather dust, feather meal,
or meat meal (tankage). It is a powerful source of nitrogen with significant amounts of phosphorus.
Like other slaughterhouse byproducts its high cost may make it impractical to use to adjust
the C/N of compost piles. Seed meals or chicken manure (chickens are mainly fed seeds) have
somewhat lower nitrogen contents than animal byproducts but their price per pound of actual
nutrition is more reasonable. If hoof and horn meal is not dispersed through a pile it may
draw flies and putrefy. I would prefer to use expensive slaughterhouse concentrates to blend
into organic fertilizer mixes. 

Juicer pulp: See Apple pomace. 

Kelp meals from several countries are available in feed and grain stores and better garden
centers, usually in 25 kg (55-pound) sacks ranging in cost from $20 to $50. Considering this
spendy price, I consider using kelp meal more justifiable in complete organic fertilizer mixes
as a source of trace minerals than as a composting supplement. 

There is a great deal of garden lore about kelp meal's growth-stimulating and stress-fortifying
properties. Some garden-store brands tout these qualities and charge a very high price. The
best prices are found at feed dealers where kelp meal is considered a bulk commodity useful
as an animal food supplement. 

I've purchased kelp meal from Norway, Korea, and Canada. There are probably other types from
other places. I don't think there is a significant difference in the mineral content of one
source compared to another. I do not deny that there may be differences in how well the packers
processing method preserved kelp's multitude of beneficial complex organic chemicals that improve
the growth and overall health of plants by functioning as growth stimulants, phytamins, and
who knows what else. 

Still, I prefer to buy by price, not by mystique, because, after gardening for over twenty
years, garden writing for fifteen and being in the mail order garden seed business for seven
I have been on the receiving end of countless amazing claims by touters of agricultural snake
oils; after testing out dozens of such concoctions I tend to disbelieve mystic contentions
of unique superiority. See also: Seaweed. 

Leather dust is a waste product of tanneries, similar to hoof and horn meal or tankage. It
may or may not be contaminated with high levels of chromium, a substance used to tan suede.
If only vegetable-tanned leather is produced at the tannery in question, leather dust should
be a fine soil amendment. Some organic certification bureaucrats prohibit its use, perhaps
rightly so in this case. 

Leaves. Soil nutrients are dissolved by rain and leached from surface layers, transported to
the subsoil, thence the ground water, and ultimately into the salty sea. Trees have deep root
systems, reaching far into the subsoil to bring plant nutrients back up, making them nature's
nutrient recycler. Because they greatly increase soil fertility, J. Russell Smith called trees
"great engines of production." Anyone who has not read his visionary book, Tree Crops, should.
Though written in 1929, this classic book is currently in print. 

Once each year, leaves are available in large quantity, but aren't the easiest material to
compost. Rich in minerals but low in nitrogen, they are generally slow to decompose and tend
to pack into an airless mass. However, if mixed with manure or other high-nitrogen amendment
and enough firm material to prevent compaction, leaves rot as well as any other substance.
Running dry leaves through a shredder or grinding them with a lawnmower greatly accelerates
their decomposition. Of all the materials I've ever put through a garden grinder, dry leaves
are the easiest and run the fastest. 

Once chopped, leaves occupy much less volume. My neighbor, John, a very serious gardener like
me, keeps several large garbage cans filled with pulverized dry leaves for use as mulch when
needed. Were I a northern gardener I'd store shredded dry leaves in plastic bags over the winter
to mix into compost piles when spring grass clippings and other more potent materials were
available. Some people fear using urban leaves because they may contain automotive pollutants
such as oil and rubber components. Such worries are probably groundless. Dave Campbell who
ran the City of Portland (Oregon) Bureau of Maintenance leaf composting program said he has
run tests for heavy metals and pesticide residues on every windrow of compost he has made. 

"Almost all our tests so far have shown less than the background level for heavy metals, and
no traces of pesticides [including] chlorinated and organophosphated pesticides.... It is very
rare for there to be any problem." 

Campbell tells an interesting story that points out how thoroughly composting eliminates pesticide
residues. He said, 

"Once I was curious about some leaves we were getting from a city park where I knew the trees
had been sprayed with a pesticide just about a month before the leaves fell and we collected
them. In this case, I had the uncomposted leaves tested and then the compost tested. In the
fresh leaves a trace of . . . residue was detected, but by the time the composting process
was finished, no detectable level was found." 

Lime. There is no disputing that calcium is a vital soil nutrient as essential to the formation
of plant and animal proteins as nitrogen. Soils deficient in calcium can be inexpensively improved
by adding agricultural lime which is relatively pure calcium carbonate (CaC03). The use of
agricultural lime or dolomitic lime in compost piles is somewhat controversial. Even the most
authoritative of authorities disagree. There is no disputing that the calcium content of plant
material and animal manure resulting from that plant material is very dependent on the amount
of calcium available in the soil. Chapter Eight contains quite a thorough discussion of this
very phenomena. If a compost pile is made from a variety of materials grown on soils that contained
adequate calcium, then adding additional lime should be unnecessary. However, if the materials
being composted are themselves deficient in calcium then the organisms of decomposition may
not develop fully. 

While preparing this book, I queried the venerable Dr. Herbert H. Koepf about lime in the compost
heap. Koepf's biodynamic books served as my own introduction to gardening in the early 1970s.
He is still active though in his late seventies. Koepf believes that lime is not necessary
when composting mixtures that contain significant amounts of manure because the decomposition
of proteinaceous materials develops a more or less neutral pH. However, when composting mixtures
of vegetation without manure, the conditions tend to become very acid and bacterial fermentation
is inhibited. To correct low pH, Koepf recommends agricultural lime at 25 pounds per ton of
vegetation, the weight figured on a dry matter basis. To guestimate dry weight, remember that
green vegetation is 70-80 percent water, to prevent organic material like hay from spoiling
it is first dried down to below 15 percent moisture. 

There is another reason to make sure that a compost pile contains an abundance of calcium.
Azobacteria, that can fix nitrate nitrogen in mellowing compost piles, depend for their activity
on the availability of calcium. Adding agricultural lime in such a situation may be very useful,
greatly speed the decomposition process, and improve the quality of the compost. Albert Howard
used small amounts of lime in his compost piles specifically to aid nitrogen fixation. He also
incorporated significant quantities of fresh bovine manure at the same time. 

However, adding lime to heating manure piles results in the loss of large quantities of ammonia
gas. Perhaps this is the reason some people are opposed to using lime in any composting process.
Keep in mind that a manure pile is not a compost pile. Although both will heat up and decay,
the starting C/N of a barnyard manure pile runs around 10:1 while a compost heap of yard waste
and kitchen garbage runs 25:1 to 30:1. Any time highly nitrogenous material, such as fresh
manures or spring grass clippings, are permitted to decompose without adjustment of the carbon-to-nitrogen
ratio with less potent stuff, ammonia tends to be released, lime or not. 

Only agricultural lime or slightly better, dolomitic lime, are useful in compost piles. Quicklime
or slaked lime are made from heated limestone and undergo a violent chemical reaction when
mixed with water. They may be fine for making cement, but not for most agricultural purposes. 

Linseed meal. See Cottonseed meal. 

Manure. Fresh manure can be the single most useful addition to the compost pile. What makes
it special is the presence of large quantities of active digestive enzymes. These enzymes seem
to contribute to more rapid heating and result in a finer-textured, more completely decomposed
compost that provokes a greater growth response in plants. Manure from cattle and other multi-stomached
ruminants also contains cellulose-decomposing bacteria. Soil animals supply similar digestive
enzymes as they work over the litter on the forest floor but before insects and other tiny
animals can eat much of a compost heap, well-made piles will heat up, driving out or killing
everything except microorganisms and fungi. 

All of the above might be of interest to the country dweller or serious backyard food grower
but probably sounds highly impractical to most of this book's readers. Don't despair if fresh
manure is not available or if using it is unappealing. Compost made with fresh, unheated manure
works only a little faster and produces just a slightly better product than compost activated
with seed meals, slaughterhouse concentrates, ground alfalfa, grass clippings, kitchen garbage,
or even dried, sacked manures. Compost made without any manure still "makes!" 

When evaluating manure keep in mind the many pitfalls. Fresh manure is very valuable, but if
you obtain some that has been has been heaped up and permitted to heat up, much of its nitrogen
may already have dissipated as ammonia while the valuable digestive enzymes will have been
destroyed by the high temperatures at the heap's core. A similar degradation happens to digestive
enzymes when manure is dried and sacked. Usually, dried manure comes from feedlots where it
has also first been stacked wet and gone through a violent heating process. So if I were going
to use sacked dried manure to lower the C/N of a compost pile, I'd evaluate it strictly on
its cost per pound of actual nitrogen. In some cases, seed meals might be cheaper and better
able to drop the heap's carbon-to-nitrogen ratio even more than manure. 

There are many kinds of manure and various samples of the same type of manure may not be equal.
This demonstrates the principle of what goes in comes out. Plants concentrate proteins and
mineral nutrients in their seed so animals fed on seed (like chickens) excrete manure nearly
as high in minerals and with a C/N like seed meals (around 8:1). Alfalfa hay is a legume with
a C/N around 12:1. Rabbits fed almost exclusively on alfalfa pellets make a rich manure with
a similar C/N. Spring grass and high quality hay and other leafy greens have a C/N nearly as
good as alfalfa. Livestock fed the best hay supplemented with grain and silage make fairly
rich manure. Pity the unfortunate livestock trying to survive as "strawburners" eating overly
mature grass hay from depleted fields. Their manure will be as poor as the food and soil they
are trying to live on. 

When evaluating manure, also consider the nature and quantity of bedding mixed into it. Our
local boarding stables keep their lazy horses on fir sawdust. The idle "riding" horses are
usually fed very strawy local grass hay with just enough supplemental alfalfa and grain to
maintain a minimal healthy condition. The "horse manure" I've hauled from these stables seems
more sawdust than manure. It must have a C/N of 50 or 60:1 because by itself it will barely
heat up. 

Manure mixed with straw is usually richer stuff. Often this type comes from dairies. Modern
breeds of milk cows must be fed seed meals and other concentrates to temporarily sustain them
against depletion from unnaturally high milk production. 

After rabbit and chicken, horse manure from well-fed animals like race horses or true, working
animals may come next. Certainly it is right up there with the best cow manure. Before the
era of chemical fertilizer, market gardeners on the outskirts of large cities took wagon loads
of produce to market and returned with an equivalent weight of "street sweepings." What they
most prized was called "short manure," or horse manure without any bedding. Manure and bedding
mixtures were referred to as "long manure" and weren't considered nearly as valuable. 

Finally, remember that over half the excretion of animals is urine. And far too little value
is placed on urine. As early as 1900 it was well known that if you fed one ton (dry weight)
of hay and measured the resulting manure after thorough drying, only 800 pounds was left. What
happened to the other 1,200 pounds of dry material? Some, of course, went to grow the animal.
Some was enzymatically "burned" as energy fuel and its wastes given off as CO2 and H2O. Most
of it was excreted in liquid form. After all, what is digestion but an enzymatic conversion
of dry material into a water solution so it can be circulated through the bloodstream to be
used and discarded as needed. Urine also contains numerous complex organic substances and cellular
breakdown products that improve the health of the soil ecology. 

However, urine is not easy to capture. It tends to leach into the ground or run off when it
should be absorbed into bedding. Chicken manure and the excrements of other fowl are particularly
valuable in this respect because the liquids and solids of their waste are uniformly mixed
so nothing is lost. When Howard worked out his system of making superior compost at Indore,
he took full measure of the value of urine and paid great care to its capture and use. 

Paper is almost pure cellulose and has a very high C/N like straw or sawdust. It can be considered
a valuable source of bulk for composting if you're using compost as mulch. Looked upon another
way, composting can be a practical way to recycle paper at home. 

The key to composting paper is to shred or grind it. Layers of paper will compress into airless
mats. Motor-driven hammermill shredders will make short work of dry paper. Once torn into tiny
pieces and mixed with other materials, paper is no more subject to compaction than grass clippings.
Even without power shredding equipment, newsprint can be shredded by hand, easily ripped into
narrow strips by tearing whole sections along the grain of the paper, not fighting against it. 

Evaluating Nitrogen Content 

A one-cubic foot bag of dried steer manure weighs 25 pounds and is labeled 1 percent nitrogen.
That means four sacks weighs 100 pounds and contains 1 pound of actual nitrogen. 

A fifty pound bag of cottonseed meal contains six percent nitrogen. Two sacks weighs 100 pounds
and contains 6 pounds of actual nitrogen. 

Therefore it takes 24 sacks of steer manure to equal the nitrogen contained in two sacks of
cottonseed meal. 

If steer manure costs $1.50 per sack, six pound of actual nitrogen from steer manure costs
24 x $1.50 = $36.00 

If fifty pounds of cottonseed meal costs $7.50, then six pounds of actual nitrogen from cottonseed
meal costs 2 x $7.50 = $15.00. 

Now, lets take a brief moment to see why industrial farmers thinking only of immediate financial
profit, use chemical fertilizers. Urea, a synthetic form of urine used as nitrogen fertilizer
contains 48 percent nitrogen. So 100 pounds of urea contains 48 pounds of nitrogen. That quantity
of urea also costs about $15.00! 

Without taking into account its value in terms of phosphorus, potassium and other mineral contents,
nitrogen from seed meal costs at least eight times as much per pound as nitrogen from urea. 

Newspapers, even with colored inks, can be safely used in compost piles. Though some colored
inks do contain heavy metals, these are not used on newsprint. 

However, before beginning to incorporate newsprint into your composting, reconsider the analyses
of various types of compost broken out as a table in the previous chapter. The main reason
many municipal composting programs make a low-grade product with such a high C/N is the large
proportion of paper used. If your compost is intended for use as mulch around perennial beds
or to be screened and broadcast atop lawns, then having a nitrogen-poor product is of little
consequence. But if your compost is headed for the vegetable garden or will be used to grow
the largest possible prized flowers then perhaps newsprint could be recycled in another way. 

Cardboard, especially corrugated material, is superior to newsprint for compost making because
its biodegradable glues contain significant amounts of nitrogen. Worms love to consume cardboard
mulch. Like other forms of paper, cardboard should be shredded, ground or chopped as finely
as possible, and thoroughly mixed with other materials when composted. 

Pet wastes may contain disease organisms that infect humans. Though municipal composting systems
can safely eliminate such diseases, home composting of dog and cat manure may be risky if the
compost is intended for food gardening. 

Phosphate rock. If your garden soil is deficient in phosphorus, adding rock phosphate to the
compost pile may accelerate its availability in the garden, far more effectively than adding
phosphate to soil. If the vegetation in your vicinity comes from soils similarly deficient
in phosphorus, adding phosphate rock will support a healthier decomposition ecology and improve
the quality of your compost. Five to ten pounds of rock phosphate added to a cubic yard of
uncomposted organic matter is about the right amount. 

Rice hulls: See Buckwheat hulls. 

Rock dust. All plant nutrients except nitrogen originally come from decomposing rock. Not all
rocks contain equal concentrations and assortments of the elements plants use for nutrients.
Consequently, not all soils lustily grow healthy plants. One very natural way to improve the
over all fertility of soil is to spread and till in finely ground rock flour make from highly
mineralized rocks. 

This method is not a new idea. Limestone and dolomite--soft, easily powdered rocks--have been
used for centuries to add calcium and magnesium. For over a century, rock phosphate and kainite--a
soft, readily soluble naturally occurring rock rich in potassium, magnesium and sulfur--have
been ground and used as fertilizer. Other natural rock sources like Jersey greensand have long
been used in the eastern United States on some unusual potassium-deficient soils.

Lately it has become fashionable to remineralize the earth with heavy applications of rock
flours. Unlike most fads and trends, this one is wise and should endure. The best rocks to
use are finely ground "basic" igneous rocks like basalts. They are called basic as opposed
to "acid" rocks because they are richer in calcium and magnesium with lesser quantities of
potassium. When soil forms from these materials it tends to not be acid. Most basic igneous
rocks also contain a wide range of trace mineral nutrients. I have observed marked improvements
in plant growth by incorporating ordinary basalt dust that I personally shoveled from below
a conveyor belt roller at a local quarry where crushed rock was being prepared for road building.
Basalt dust was an unintentional byproduct. 

Though highly mineralized rock dust may be a valuable soil amendment, its value must equal
its cost. Application rates of one or two tons per acre are minimal. John Hamaker's The Survival
of Civilization suggests eight to ten tons per acre the first application and then one or two
tons every few years thereafter. This means the correct price for rock dust is similar to the
price for agricultural lime; in my region that's about $60 to $80 a ton in sacks. Local farmers
pay about $40 a ton in bulk, including spreading on your field by the seller. A fifty-pound
sack of rock dust should retail for about $2. These days it probably costs several times that
price, tending to keep rock dust a novelty item. 

The activities of fungi and bacteria are the most potent forces making nutrients available
to plants. As useful as tilling rock powders into soil may be, the intense biological activity
of the compost pile accelerates their availability. And the presence of these minerals might
well make a compost pile containing nutrient-deficient vegetation work faster and become better
fertilizer. Were the right types of rock dust available and cheap, I'd make it about 5 percent
by volume of my heap, and equal that with rich soil. 

Safflowerseed meal. See Cottonseed meal. 

Sawdust contains virtually nothing but carbon. In small quantities it is useful to fluff up
compost piles and prevent compaction. However this is only true of coarse material like that
from sawmills or chain saws. The fine saw dust from carpentry and cabinet work may compact
and become airless. See Paper for a discussion of lowering the fertilizing value of compost
with high C/N materials. 

Seaweed when freshly gathered is an extraordinary material for the compost pile. Like most
living things from the ocean seaweeds are rich in all of the trace minerals and contain significant
amounts of the major nutrients, especially potassium, with lesser amounts of phosphorus and
nitrogen. Seaweeds enrich the heap, decompose very rapidly, and assist other materials to break
down. Though heavy and often awkward to gather and haul, if they are available, seaweeds should
not be permitted to go to waste. 

Those with unlimited money may use sprinklings of kelp meal in the compost pile to get a similar
effect. However, kelp meal may be more economically used as part of a complete organic fertilizer
mixture that is worked into soil. 

Shrub and tree prunings are difficult materials to compost unless you have a shredder/chipper.
Even after being incorporated into one hot compost heap after another, half-inch diameter twigs
may take several years to fully decompose. And turning a heap containing long branches can
be very difficult. But buying power equipment just to grind a few cart loads of hedge and tree
prunings each year may not be economical. My suggestion is to neatly tie any stick larger than
your little finger into tight bundles about one foot in diameter and about 16 inches long and
then burn these "faggots" in the fireplace or wood stove. This will be less work in the long run. 

Soil is an often overlooked but critically important part of the compost pile. Least of its
numerous benefits, soil contains infinitudes of microorganisms that help start out decomposition.
Many compostable materials come with bits of soil already attached and few are sterile in themselves.
But extra soil ensures that there will initially be a sufficient number and variety of these
valuable organisms. Soil also contains insoluble minerals that are made soluble by biological
activity. Some of these minerals may be in short supply in the organic matter itself and their
addition may improve the health and vigor of the whole decomposition ecology. A generous addition
of rock dust may do this even better. 

Most important, soil contains nitrification microorganisms that readily convert ammonia gas
to nitrates, and clay that will catch and temporarily hold ammonia. Nitrifying bacteria do
not live outside of soil. Finally, a several inch thick layer of soil capping the heap serves
as an extra insulator, holding in heat, raising the core temperature and helping seal in moisture.
Making a compost heap as much as 10 percent soil by dry weight is the right target 

Try thinking of soil somewhat like the moderators in an atomic reactor, controlling the reaction
by trapping neutrons. Soil won't change the C/N of a heap but not being subject to significant
breakdown it will slightly lower the maximum temperature of decomposition; while trapping ammonia
emissions; and creating better conditions for nitrogen fixing bacteria to improve the C/N as
the heap cools and ripens. 

Soybean meal. See Cottonseed meal. 

Straw is a carboniferous material similar to sawdust but usually contains more nutrients. It
is a valuable aerator, each stalk acting as a tube for air to enter and move through the pile.
Large quantities of long straw can make it very difficult to turn a heap the first time. I'd
much prefer to have manure mixed with straw than with sawdust. 

Sunflowerseed meal. See Cottonseed meal. 

Tankage is another slaughterhouse or rendering plant waste consisting of all animal refuse
except blood and fat. Locally it is called meat meal. See Hoof and horn meal. 

Tofu factory waste. Okara is the pulp left after soy milk has been squeezed from cooked, ground
soybeans. Small-scale tofu makers will have many gallons of okara to dispose of each day. It
makes good pig food so there may be competition to obtain it. Like any other seed waste, okara
is high in nitrogen and will be wet and readily putrefiable like brewery waste. Mix into compost
piles immediately. 

Urine. See Manure. 

Weeds. Their nutrient content is highly variable depending on the species and age of the plant.
Weeds gone to seed are both low in nitrogen and require locating in the center of a hot heap
to kill off the seeds. Tender young weeds are as rich in nitrogen as spring grass. 

Weeds that propagate through underground stems or rhizomes like quack-grass, Johnsongrass,
bittersweet, and the like are better burnt. 

Wood ash from hardwoods is rich in potassium and contains significant amounts of calcium and
other minerals. Ash from conifers may be similarly rich in potassium but contains little else.
Wood ashes spread on the ground tend to lose their nutrients rapidly through leaching. If these
nutrients are needed in your soil, then add the ash to your compost piles where it will become
an unreachable part of the biomass that will be gradually released in the garden when the compost
is used. 

Wood chips are slow to decompose although they may be added to the compost pile if one is not
in a hurry. Their chunkiness and stiff mechanical properties help aerate a heap. They are somewhat
more nutrient rich than sawdust. 

Wool wastes are also called shoddy. See Hair. 

CHAPTER FIVE 

Methods and Variations 

A note to the internet reader: In the the print-on-paper edition, this chapter and the next
one on vermicomposting are full of illustrations showing composting structures and accessories.
These do not reproduce well on-line and are not included. 

Growing the majority of my family's food absorbs all of the energy I care to put into gardening.
So my yard is neat but shaggy. Motivated by what I consider total rationality, my lawn is cut
only when it threatens to overwhelm the lawnmower, and the lawn is not irrigated, so it browns
off and stops growing in summer. 

I don't grow flowers because I live on a river in a beautiful countryside setting surrounded
by low mountains. Nothing I created could begin to compete with what nature freely offers my
eye. One untidy bed of ornamentals by the front door are my bow to conventionality, but these
fit the entrances northeast aspect by being Oregon woods natives like ferns, salal, Oregon
grape and an almost wild rhododendron--all these species thrive without irrigation. 

When I give lectures, I am confronted by the amazing gardening variations that humans are capable
of. Some folks' raised vegetable beds are crude low mounds. Then, I am shown photographs of
squared, paralleled vertical-walled raised beds, uniformly wrapped in cedar planks. Some gardens
are planted in fairly straight rows, some are laid-out in carefully calculated interplanted
hexagonal successions and some are a wild scattering of catch-as-catch-can. Some people don't
eat many kinds of vegetables yet grow large stands of corn and beans for canning or freezing. 

Others grow small patches of a great many species, creating a year-round gourmet produce stand
for their personal enjoyment. Some gardeners grow English-style floral displays occupying every
square inch of their yards and offering a constant succession of color and texture. 

This chapter presents some of the many different ways people handle the disposal of yard and
kitchen wastes. Compost making, like gardening, reflects variations in temperament. You probably
weren't surprised at my casual landscaping because you already read about my unkempt compost
heap. So I am similarly not surprised to discover backyard composting methods as neat as a
German village, as aesthetic as a Japanese garden, as scientific as an engineer would design
and as ugly as . . . 

Containers and Other Similar Methods 

In my days of youthful indiscretions I thought I could improve life on Earth by civilizing
high school youth through engendering in them an understanding of history. I confess I almost
completely failed and gave up teaching after a few years. However, I personally learned a great
deal about history and the telling of history. I read many old journals, diaries, and travel
accounts. From some of these documents I gained little while other accounts introduced me to
unique individuals who assisted me in understanding their era. 

It seems that what differentiates good from bad reporting is how frank and honest the reporter
is about their own personal opinions, prejudices, and outlooks. The more open and direct the
reporter, the better the reader can discount inevitable distortions and get a picture of what
might really have been there. The more the reporter attempts to be "objective" by hiding their
viewpoints, the less valuable their information. 

That is why before discussing those manufactured aids to composting that can make a consumer
of you, I want to inform you that I am a frugal person who shuns unnecessary expenditure. I
maintain what seems to me to be a perfect justification for my stinginess: I prefer relative
unemployment. Whenever I want to buy something it has become my habit first to ask myself if
the desired object could possibly bring me as much pleasure as knowing that I don't have to
get up and go to work the next morning. Usually I decide to save the money so I do not have
to earn more. En extremis, I repeat the old Yankee marching chant like a mantra: Make do! Wear
it out! When it is gone, do without! Bum, Bum! Bum bi Dum! Bum bi di Dum, Bum bi Dum! 

So I do not own a shredder/grinder when patience will take its place. I do not buy or make
composting containers when a country life style and not conforming to the neatness standards
of others makes bins or tumblers unnecessary. However, I do grudgingly accept that others live
differently. Let me warn you that my descriptions of composting aids and accessories are probably
a little jaundiced. I am doing my best to be fair. 

Visual appeal is the primary benefit of making compost in a container. To a tidy, northern
European sense of order, any composting structure will be far neater than the raw beauty of
a naked heap. Composting container designs may offer additional advantages but no single structure
will do everything possible. With an enclosure, it may be possible to heat up a pile smaller
than 1' x 4' x 4' because the walls and sometimes the top of the container may be insulating.
This is a great advantage to someone with a postage stamp backyard that treasures every square
foot. Similarly, wrapping the heap retards moisture loss. Some structures shut out vermin. 

On the other hand, structures can make it more difficult to make compost. Using a prefabricated
bin can prevent a person from readily turning the heap and can almost force a person to also
buy some sort of shredder/chipper to first reduce the size of the material. Also, viewed as
a depreciating economic asset with a limited life span, many composting aids cost as much or
more money as the value of all the material they can ever turn out. Financial cost relates
to ecological cost, so spending money on short-lived plastic or easily rusted metal may negate
any environmental benefit gained from recycling yard wastes. 

Building Your Own Bin 

Probably the best homemade composting design is the multiple bin system where separate compartments
facilitate continuous decomposition. Each bin is about four feet on a side and three to four
feet tall. Usually, the dividing walls between bins are shared. Always, each bin opens completely
at the front. I think the best design has removable slatted separators between a series of
four (not three) wooden bins in three declining sizes: two large, one medium-large and one
smaller. Alternatively, bins may be constructed of unmortared concrete blocks with removable
wooden fronts. Permanently constructed bins of mortared concrete block or wood may have moisture-retentive,
rain-protective hinged lids. 

There are two workable composting systems that fit these structures. Most composters obtain
materials too gradually to make a large heap all at once. In this case my suggestion is the
four-bin system, using one large bin as a storage area for dry vegetation. Begin composting
in bin two by mixing the dry contents temporarily stored in bin one with kitchen garbage, grass
clippings and etc. Once bin two is filled and heating, remove its front slats and the side
slats separating it from bin three and turn the pile into bin three, gradually reinserting
side slats as bin three is filled. Bin three, being about two-thirds the size of bin two, will
be filled to the brim. A new pile can be forming in bin two while bin three is cooking. 

When bin three has settled significantly, repeat the process, turning bin three into bin four,
etc. By the time the material has reheated in bin four and cooled you will have finished or
close-to-finished compost At any point during this turning that resistant, unrotted material
is discovered, instead of passing it on, it may be thrown back to an earlier bin to go through
yet another decomposition stage. Perhaps the cleverest design of this type takes advantage
of any significant slope or hill available to a lazy gardener and places a series of separate
bins one above the next, eliminating any need for removable side-slats while making tossing
compost down to the next container relatively easy. 

A simply constructed alternative avoids making removable slats between bins or of lifting the
material over the walls to toss it from bin to bin. Here, each bin is treated as a separate
and discrete compost process. When it is time to turn the heap, the front is removed and the
heap is turned right back into its original container. To accomplish this it may be necessary
to first shovel about half of the material out of the bin onto a work area, then turn what
is remaining in the bin and then cover it with what was shoveled out. Gradually the material
in the bin shrinks and decomposes. When finished, the compost will fill only a small fraction
of the bin's volume. 

My clever students at the Urban Farm Class, University of Oregon have made a very inexpensive
compost bin structure of this type using recycled industrial wood pallets. They are held erect
by nailing them to pressure-treated fence posts sunk into the earth. The removable doors are
also pallets, hooked on with bailing wire. The flimsy pallets rot in a couple of years but
obtaining more free pallets is easy. If I were building a more finished three or four bin series,
I would use rot-resistant wood like cedar and/or thoroughly paint the wood with a non-phytotoxic
wood preservative like Cuprinol (copper napthanate). Cuprinol is not as permanent as other
types of wood preservatives and may have to be reapplied every two or three years. 

Bins reduce moisture loss and wood bins have the additional advantage of being fairly good
thermal insulators: one inch of wood is as much insulation as one foot of solid concrete. Composting
containers also have a potential disadvantage-reducing air flow, slowing decomposition, and
possibly making the process go anaerobic. Should this happen air flow can be improved by supporting
the heap on a slatted floor made of up-ended Cuprinol-treated 2 x 4's about three inches apart
tacked into the back wall. Air ducts, inexpensively made from perforated plastic septic system
leach line, are laid between the slats to greatly enhance air flow. I wouldn't initially build
a bin array with ducted floors; these can be added as an afterthought if necessary. 

Much simpler bins can be constructed out of 2" x 4" mesh x 36" or 48" high strong, welded wire
fencing commonly called "turkey wire," or "hog wire." The fencing is formed into cylinders
four to five feet in diameter. I think a serious gardener might need one five-foot circle and
two, four-foot diameter ones. Turkey wire is stiff enough to support itself when formed into
a circle by hooking the fencing upon itself. This home-rolled wire bin system is the least
expensive of all. 

As compostable materials are available, the wire circle is gradually filled. Once the bin has
been loaded and has settled somewhat, the wire may be unhooked and peeled away; the material
will hold itself in a cylindrical shape without further support. After a month or two the heap
will have settled significantly and will be ready to be turned into a smaller wire cylinder.
Again, the material is allowed to settle and then, if desired, the wire may be removed to be
used again to form another neatly-shaped heap. 

Wire-enclosed heaps encourage air circulation, but can also encourage drying out. Their proper
location is in full shade. In hot, dry climates, moisture retention can be improved by wrapping
a length of plastic sheeting around the outside of the circle and if necessary, by draping
another plastic sheet over the top. However, doing this limits air flow and prevents removal
of the wire support You may have to experiment with how much moisture-retention the heap can
stand without going anaerobic. To calculate the length of wire (circumference) necessary to
enclose any desired diameter, use the formula Circumference = Diameter x 3.14. For example,
to make a five-foot circle: 5 x 3.14 = approximately 16 feet of wire. 

With the exception of the "tumbler," commercially made compost bins are derived from one of
these two systems. Usually the factory-made wire bins are formed into rectangles instead of
circles and may be made of PVC coated steel instead of galvanized wire. I see no advantage
in buying a wire bin over making one, other than supporting unnecessary stages of manufacture
and distribution by spending more money. Turkey wire fencing is relatively inexpensive and
easy enough to find at farm supply and fencing stores. The last time I purchased any it was
sold by the lineal foot much as hardware cloth is dispensed at hardware and building supply
stores. 

Manufactured solid-sided bins are usually constructed of sheet steel or recycled plastic. In
cool climates there is an advantage to tightly constructed plastic walls that retain heat and
facilitate decomposition of smaller thermal masses. Precise construction also prevents access
by larger vermin and pets. Mice, on the other hand, are capable of squeezing through amazingly
small openings. Promotional materials make composting in pre-manufactured bins seem easy, self-righteously
ecological, and effortless. However, there are drawbacks. 

It is not possible to readily turn the materials once they've been placed into most composters
of this type unless the entire front is removable. Instead, new materials are continuously
placed on top while an opening at the bottom permits the gardener to scrape out finished compost
in small quantities. Because no turning is involved, this method is called "passive" composting.
But to work well, the ingredients must not be too coarse and must be well mixed before loading. 

Continuous bin composters generally work fast enough when processing mixtures of readily decomposable
materials like kitchen garbage, weeds, grass clippings and some leaves. But if the load contains
too much fine grass or other gooey stuff and goes anaerobic, a special compost aerator must
be used to loosen it up. 

Manufactured passive composters are not very large. Compactness may be an advantage to people
with very small yards or who may want to compost on their terrace or porch. But if the C/N
of the materials is not favorable, decomposition can take a long, long time and several bins
may have to be used in tandem. Unless they are first ground or chopped very finely, larger
more resistant materials like corn, Brussels sprouts, sunflower stalks, cabbage stumps, shrub
prunings, etc. will "constipate" a top-loading, bottom-discharging composter. 

The compost tumbler is a clever method that accelerates decomposition by improving aeration
and facilitating frequent turning. A rotating drum holding from eight to eighteen bushels (the
larger sizes look like a squat, fat, oversized oil drum) is suspended above the ground, top-loaded
with organic matter, and then tumbled every few days for a few weeks until the materials have
decomposed. Then the door is opened and finished compost falls out the bottom. 

Tumblers have real advantages. Frequent turning greatly increases air supply and accelerates
the process. Most tumblers retard moisture loss too because they are made of solid material,
either heavy plastic or steel with small air vents. Being suspended above ground makes them
immune to vermin and frequent turning makes it impossible for flies to breed. 

Tumblers have disadvantages that may not become apparent until a person has used one for awhile.
First, although greatly accelerated, composting in them is not instantaneous. Passive bins
are continuous processors while (with the exception of one unique design) tumblers are "batch"
processors, meaning that they are first loaded and then the entire load is decomposed to finished
compost. What does a person do with newly acquired kitchen garbage and other waste during the
two to six weeks that they are tumbling a batch? One handy solution is to buy two tumblers
and be filling one while the other is working, but tumblers aren't cheap! The more substantial
ones cost $250 to $400 plus freight. 

There are other less obvious tumbler disadvantages that may negate any work avoided, time saved,
or sweaty turning with a manure fork eliminated. Being top-loaded means lifting compost materials
and dropping them into a small opening that may be shoulder height or more. These materials
may include a sloppy bucket of kitchen garbage. Then, a tumbler must be tumbled for a few minutes
every two or three days. Cranking the lever or grunting with the barrel may seem like fun at
first but it can get old fast. Decomposition in an untumbled tumbler slows down to a crawl. 

Both the passive compost bin and the highly active compost tumbler work much better when loaded
with small-sized particles. The purchase of either one tends to impel the gardener to also
buy something to cut and/or grind compost materials. 

The U.C. Method--Grinder/Shredders 

During the 1950s, mainstream interest in municipal composting developed in America for the
first time. Various industrial processes already existed in Europe; most of these were patented
variations on large and expensive composting tumblers. Researchers at the University of California
set out to see if simpler methods could be developed to handle urban organic wastes without
investing in so much heavy machinery. Their best system, named the U. C. Fast Compost Method,
rapidly made compost in about two weeks. 

No claim was ever made that U. C. method produces the highest quality compost. The idea was
to process and decompose organic matter as inoffensively and rapidly as possible. No attempt
is made to maximize the product's C/N as is done in slower methods developed by Howard at Indore.
Most municipal composting done in this country today follows the basic process worked out by
the University of California. 

Speed of decomposition comes about from very high internal heat and extreme aerobic conditions.
To achieve the highest possible temperature, all of the organic material to be composted is
first passed through a grinder and then stacked in a long, high windrow. Generally the height
is about five to six feet, any higher causes too much compaction. Because the material is stacked
with sides as vertical as possible, the width takes care of itself. 

Frequent turning with machinery keeps the heap working rapidly. During the initial experiments
the turning was done with a tractor and front end loader. These days giant "U" shaped machines
may roll down windrows at municipal composting plots, automatically turning, reshaping the
windrow and if necessary, simultaneously spraying water. 

Some municipal waste consists of moist kitchen garbage and grass clippings. Most of the rest
is dry paper. If this mixture results in a moisture content that is too high the pile gets
soggy, sags promptly, and easily goes anaerobic. Turning not only restores aerobic conditions,
but also tends to drop the moisture content. If the initial moisture content is between 60
and 70 percent, the windrow is turned every two days. Five such turns, starting two days after
the windrow is first formed, finishes the processing. If the moisture content is between 10
and 60 percent, the windrow is first turned after three days and thence at three day intervals,
taking about four turns to finish the process. If the moisture content is below 40 percent
or drops below 40 percent during processing, moisture is added. 

No nuisances can develop if turning is done correctly. Simply flipping the heap over or adding
new material on top will not do it. The material must be blended so that the outsides are shifted
to the core and the core becomes the skin. This way, any fly larvae, pathogens, or insect eggs
that might not be killed by the cooler temperatures on the outside are rotated into the lethal
high heat of the core every few days. 

The speed of the U.C. method also appeals to the backyard gardener. At home, frequent turning
can be accomplished either in naked heaps, or by switching from one bin to the next and back,
or with a compost tumbler. But a chipper/shredder is also essential. Grinding everything that
goes into the heap has other advantages than higher heat and accelerated processing. Materials
may be initially mixed as they are ground and small particles are much easier to turn over
than long twigs, tough straw, and other fibrous materials that tie the heap together and make
it difficult to separate and handle with hand tools. 

Backyard shredders have other uses, especially for gardeners with no land to waste. Composting
tough materials like grape prunings, berry canes, and hedge trimmings can take a long time.
Slow heaps containing resistant materials occupy precious space. With a shredder you can fast-compost
small limbs, tree prunings, and other woody materials like corn and sunflower stalks. Whole
autumn leaves tend to compact into airless layers and decompose slowly, but dry leaves are
among the easiest of all materials to grind. Once smashed into flakes, leaves become a fluffy
material that resists compaction. 

Electric driven garden chipper/shredders are easier on the neighbors' ears than more powerful
gasoline-powered machines, although not so quiet that I'd run one without ear protection. Electrics
are light enough for a strong person to pick up and carry out to the composting area and keep
secured in a storeroom. One more plus, there never is any problem starting an electric motor.
But no way to conveniently repair one either. 

There are two basic shredding systems. One is the hammermill--a grinding chamber containing
a rotating spindle with steel tines or hammers attached that repeatedly beats and tears materials
into smaller and smaller pieces until they fall out through a bottom screen. Hammermills will
flail almost anything to pieces without becoming dulled. Soft, green materials are beaten to
shreds; hard, dry, brittle stuff is rapidly fractured into tiny chips. Changing the size of
the discharge screen adjusts the size of the final product. By using very coarse screens, even
soft, wet, stringy materials can be slowly fed through the grinding chamber without hopelessly
tangling up in the hammers. 

Like a coarse power planer in a wood shop, the other type of machine uses sharpened blades
that slice thin chips from whatever is pushed into its maw. The chipper is designed to grind
woody materials like small tree limbs, prunings, and berry canes. Proper functioning depends
on having sharp blades. But edges easily become dulled and require maintenance. Care must be
taken to avoid passing soil and small stones through a chipper. Soft, dry, brittle materials
like leaves will be broken up but aren't processed as rapidly as in a hammermill. Chippers
won't handle soft wet stuff. 

When driven by low horsepower electric motors, both chippers and hammermills are light-duty
machines. They may be a little shaky, standing on spindly legs or small platforms, so materials
must be fed in gently. Most electric models cost between $300 and $400. 

People with more than a postage-stamp yard who like dealing with machinery may want a gasoline-powered
shredder/chipper. These are much more substantial machines that combine both a big hammermill
shredder with a side-feeding chipper for limbs and branches. Flailing within a hammermill or
chipping limbs of two or more inches in diameter focuses a great deal of force; between the
engine noise and the deafening din as dry materials bang around the grinding chamber, ear protection
is essential. So are safety goggles and heavy gloves. Even though the fan belt driving the
spindle is shielded, I would not operate one without wearing tight-fitting clothes. When grinding
dry materials, great clouds of dust may be given off. Some of these particles, like the dust
from alfalfa or from dried-out spoiled (moldy) hay, can severely irritate lungs, eyes, throat
and nasal passages. A face mask, or better, an army surplus gas mask with built-in goggles,
may be in order. And you'll probably want to take a shower when finished. 

Fitted with the right-size screen selected from the assortment supplied at purchase, something
learned after a bit of experience, powerful hammermills are capable of pulverizing fairly large
amounts of dry material in short order. But wet stuff is much slower to pass through and may
take a much coarser screen to get out at all. Changing materials may mean changing screens
and that takes a few minutes. Dry leaves seem to flow through as fast as they can be fed in.
The side-feed auxiliary chippers incorporated into hammermills will make short work of smaller
green tree limbs; but dry, hardened wood takes a lot longer. Feeding large hard branches too
fast can tear up chipper blades and even break the ball-bearing housings holding the spindle.
Here I speak from experience. 

Though advertisements for these machines make them seem effortless and fast, shredders actually
take considerable time, energy, skilled attention, constant concentration, and experience.
When grinding one must attentively match the inflow to the rate of outflow because if the hopper
is overfilled the tines become snarled and cease to work. For example, tangling easily can
occur while rapidly feeding in thin brittle flakes of dry spoiled hay and then failing to slow
down while a soft, wet flake is gradually reduced. To clear a snarled rotor without risking
continued attachment of one's own arm, the motor must be killed before reaching into the hopper
and untangling the tines. To clear badly clogged machines it may also be necessary to first
remove and then replace the discharge screen, something that takes a few minutes. 

There are significant differences in the quality of materials and workmanship that go into
making these machines. They all look good when freshly painted; it is not always possible to
know what you have bought until a season or two of heavy use has passed. One tried-and-true
aid to choosing quality is to ask equipment rental businesses what brand their customers are
not able to destroy. Another guide is to observe the brand of gasoline engine attached. 

In my gardening career I've owned quite a few gas-powered rotary tillers and lawnmowers and
one eight-horsepower shredder. In my experience there are two grades of small gasoline engines--"consumer"
and the genuine "industrial." Like all consumer merchandise, consumer-grade engines are intended
to be consumed. They have a design life of a few hundred hours and then are worn out. Most
parts are made of soft, easily-machined aluminum, reinforced with small amounts of steel in
vital places. 

There are two genuinely superior American companies--Kohler and Wisconsin-that make very durable,
long-lasting gas engines commonly found on small industrial equipment. With proper maintenance
their machines are designed to endure thousands of hours of continuous use. I believe small
gas engines made by Yamaha, Kawasaki, and especially Honda, are of equal or greater quality
to anything made in America. I suggest you could do worse than to judge how long the maker
expects their shredder/chipper to last by the motor it selects. 

Gasoline-powered shredder/chippers cost from $700 to $1,300. Back in the early 1970s I wore
one pretty well out in only one year of making fast compost for a half-acre Biodynamic French
intensive market garden. When I amortized the cost of the machine into the value of both the
compost and the vegetables I grew with the compost, and considered the amount of time I spent
running the grinder against the extra energy it takes to turn ordinary slow compost heaps I
decided I would be better off allowing my heaps to take more time to mature. 

Sheet Composting 

Decomposition happens rapidly in a hot compost heap with the main agents of decay being heat-loving
microorganisms. Decomposition happens slowly at the soil's surface with the main agents of
decay being soil animals. However, if the leaves and forest duff on the floor of a forest or
a thick matted sod are tilled into the topsoil, decomposition is greatly accelerated. 

For two centuries, frontier American agriculture depended on just such a method. Early pioneers
would move into an untouched region, clear the forest, and plow in millennia of accumulated
nutrients held as biomass on the forest floor. For a few years, perhaps a decade, or even twenty
years if the soil carried a higher level of mineralization than the average, crops from forest
soils grew magnificently. Then, unless other methods were introduced to rebuild fertility,
yields, crop, animal, and human health all declined. When the less-leached grassy prairies
of what we now call the Midwest were reached, even greater bounties were mined out for more
years because rich black-soil grasslands contain more mineral nutrients and sod accumulates
far more humus than do forests. 

Sheet composting mimics this system while saving a great deal of effort. Instead of first heaping
organic matter up, turning it several times, carting humus back to the garden, spreading it,
and tilling it in, sheet composting conducts the decomposition process with far less effort
right in the soil needing enrichment. 

Sheet composting is the easiest method of all. However, the method has certain liabilities.
Unless the material being spread is pure manure without significant amounts of bedding, or
only fresh spring grass clippings, or alfalfa hay, the carbon-nitrogen ratio will almost certainly
be well above that of stable humus. As explained earlier, during the initial stages of decay
the soil will be thoroughly depleted of nutrients. Only after the surplus carbon has been consumed
will the soil ecology and nutrient profile normalize. The time this will take depends on the
nature of the materials being composted and on soil conditions. 

If the soil is moist, airy, and warm and if it already contained high levels of nutrients,
and if the organic materials are not ligninous and tough and have a reasonable C/N, then sheet
composting will proceed rapidly. If the soil is cold, dry, clayey (relatively airless) or infertile
and/or the organic matter consists of things like grain straw, paper, or the very worst, barkless
sawdust, then decomposition will be slowed. Obviously, it is not possible to state with any
precision how fast sheet composting would proceed for you. 

Autumn leaves usually sheet compost very successfully. These are gathered, spread over all
of the garden (except for those areas intended for early spring sowing), and tilled in as shallowly
as possible before winter. Even in the North where soil freezes solid for months, some decomposition
will occur in autumn and then in spring, as the soil warms, composting instantly resumes and
is finished by the time frost danger is over. Sheet composting higher C/N materials in spring
is also workable where the land is not scheduled for planting early. If the organic matter
has a low C/N, like manure, a tender green manure crop not yet forming seed, alfalfa hay or
grass clippings, quite a large volume of material can be decomposed by warm soil in a matter
of weeks. 

However, rotting large quantities of very resistant material like sawdust can take many months,
even in hot, moist soil. Most gardeners cannot afford to give their valuable land over to being
a compost factory for months. One way to speed the sheet composting of something with a high
C/N is to amend it with a strong nitrogen source like chicken manure or seed meal. If sawdust
is the only organic matter you can find, I recommend an exception to avoiding chemical fertilizer.
By adding about 80 pounds of urea to each cubic yard of sawdust, its overall C/N is reduced
from 500:1 to about 20:1. Urea is perhaps the most benign of all chemical nitrogen sources.
It does not acidify the soil, is not toxic to worms or other soil animals or microorganisms,
and is actually a synthetic form of the naturally occurring chemical that contains most of
the nitrogen in animal urine. In that sense, putting urea in soil is not that different than
putting synthetic vitamin C in a human body 

Burying kitchen garbage is a traditional form of sheet composting practiced by row-cropping
gardeners usually in mild climates where the soil does not freeze in winter. Some people use
a post hole digger to make a neat six-to eight-inch diameter hole about eighteen inches deep
between well-spaced growing rows of plants. When the hole has been filled to within two or
three inches of the surface, it is topped off with soil. Rarely will animals molest buried
garbage, it is safe from flies and yet enough air exists in the soil for it to rapidly decompose.
The local soil ecology and nutrient balance is temporarily disrupted, but the upset only happens
in this one little spot far enough away from growing plants to have no harmful effect. 

Another garbage disposal variation has been called "trench composting." Instead of a post hole,
a long trench about the width of a combination shovel and a foot deep is gradually dug between
row crops spaced about four feet (or more) apart. As bucket after bucket of garbage, manure,
and other organic matter are emptied into the trench, it is covered with soil dug from a little
further along. Next year, the rows are shifted two feet over so that crops are sown above the
composted garbage. 

Mulch Gardening 

Ruth Stout discovered--or at least popularized this new-to-her method. Mulching may owe some
of its popularity to Ruth's possession of writing talent similar to her brother Rex's, who
was a well-known mid-century mystery writer. Ruth's humorous book, Gardening Without Work is
a fun-to-read classic that I highly recommend if for no other reason than it shows how an intelligent
person can make remarkable discoveries simply by observing the obvious. However, like many
other garden writers, Ruth Stout made the mistake of assuming that what worked in her own backyard
would be universally applicable. Mulch gardening does not succeed everywhere. 

This easy method mimics decomposition on the forest floor. Instead of making compost heaps
or sheet composting, the garden is kept thickly covered with a permanent layer of decomposing
vegetation. Year-round mulch produces a number of synergistic advantages. Decay on the soil's
surface is slow but steady and maintains fertility. As on the forest floor, soil animals and
worm populations are high. Their activities continuously loosen the earth, steadily transport
humus and nutrients deeper into the soil, and eliminate all need for tillage. Protected from
the sun, the surface layers of soil do not dry out so shallow-feeding species like lettuce
and moisture-lovers like radishes make much better growth. During high summer, mulched ground
does not become unhealthfully heated up either. 

The advantages go on. The very top layer of soil directly under the mulch has a high organic
matter content, retaining moisture, eliminating crusting, and consequently, enhancing the germination
of seeds. Mulchers usually sow in well-separated rows. The gardener merely rakes back the mulch
and exposes a few inches of bare soil, scratches a furrow, and covers the seed with humusy
topsoil. As the seedlings grow taller and are thinned out, the mulch is gradually pushed back
around them. 

Weeds? No problem! Except where germinating seeds, the mulch layer is thick enough to prevent
weed seeds from sprouting. Should a weed begin showing through the mulch, this is taken as
an indication that spot has become too thinly covered and a flake of spoiled hay or other vegetation
is tossed on the unwanted plant, smothering it. 

Oh, how easy it seems! Pick a garden site. If you have a year to wait before starting your
garden do not even bother to till first. Cover it a foot deep with combinations of spoiled
hay, leaves, grass clippings, and straw. Woody wastes are not suitable because they won't rot
fast enough to feed the soil. Kitchen garbage and manures can also be tossed on the earth and,
for a sense of tidiness, covered with hay. The mulch smothers the grass or weeds growing there
and the site begins to soften. Next year it will be ready to grow vegetables. 

If the plot is very infertile to begin with there won't be enough biological activity or nutrients
in the soil to rapidly decompose the mulch. In that case, to accelerate the process, before
first putting down mulch till in an initial manure layer or a heavy sprinkling of seed meal.
Forever after, mulching materials alone will be sufficient. Never again till. Never again weed.
Never again fertilize. No compost piles to make, turn, and haul. Just keep your eye open for
spoiled hay and buy a few inexpensive tons of it each year. 

Stout, who discovered mulch gardening in Connecticut where irregular summer rains were usually
sufficient to water a widely-spaced garden, also mistakenly thought that mulched gardens lost
less soil moisture because the earth was protected from the drying sun and thus did not need
irrigation through occasional drought. I suspect that drought resistance under mulch has more
to do with a plant's ability to feed vigorously, obtain nutrition, and continue growing because
the surface inches where most of soil nutrients and biological activities are located, stayed
moist. I also suspect that actual, measurable moisture loss from mulched soil may be greater
than from bare earth. But that's another book I wrote, called Gardening Without Irrigation. 

Yes, gardening under permanent year-round mulch seems easy, but it does have a few glitches.
Ruth Stout did not discover them because she lived in Connecticut where the soil freezes solid
every winter and stays frozen for long enough to set back population levels of certain soil
animals. In the North, earwigs and sow bugs (pill bugs) are frequently found in mulched gardens
but they do not become a serious pest. Slugs are infrequent and snails don't exist. All thanks
to winter. 

Try permanent mulch in the deep South, or California where I was first disappointed with mulching,
or the Maritime northwest where I now live, and a catastrophe develops. During the first year
these soil animals are present but cause no problem. But after the first mild winter with no
population setback, they become a plague. Slugs (and in California, snails) will be found everywhere,
devastating seedlings. Earwigs and sow bugs, that previously only were seen eating only decaying
mulch, begin to attack plants. It soon becomes impossible to get a stand of seedlings established.
The situation can be rapidly cured by raking up all the mulch, carting it away from the garden,
and composting it. I know this to be the truth because I've had to do just that both in California
where as a novice gardener I had my first mulch catastrophes, and then when I moved to Oregon,
I gave mulching another trial with similar sad results. 

Sources for Composters, Grinders and etc. 

Shredder/Chippers and other power equipment 

I've been watching this market change rapidly since the early 1970s. Manufacturers come and
go. Equipment is usually ordered direct from the maker, freight extra. Those interested in
large horsepower shredder/chippers might check the advertisements in garden-related magazines
such as National Gardening, Organic Gardening, Sunset, Horticulture, Fine Gardening, Country
Living (Harrowsmith), etc. Without intending any endorsement or criticism of their products,
two makers that have remained in business since I started gardening are: 

Kemp Company. 160 Koser Road., Lititz, PA 17543. (also compost drums) 

Troy-Bilt Manufacturing Company, 102D St. & 9th Ave., Troy, NY 12180

Mail-order catalog sources of compost containers and garden accessories 

Gardens Alive, 5100 Schenley Place, Lawrenceburg, Indiana 47025 

Gardener's Supply Company, 128 Intervale Road, Burlington, VT 05401 

Ringer Corporation, 9959 Valley View Road, Eden Prairie, MN 55344 

Smith & Hawken, 25 Corte Madera, Mill Valley, CA 94941 

CHAPTER SIX 

Vermicomposting 

It was 1952 and Mr. Campbell had a worm bin. This shallow box--about two feet wide by four
feet long--resided under a worktable in the tiny storeroom/greenhouse adjacent to our grade
school science class. It was full of what looked like black, crumbly soil and zillions of small,
red wiggly worms, not at all like the huge nightcrawlers I used to snatch from the lawn after
dark to take fishing the next morning. Mr. Campbell's worms were fed used coffee grounds; the
worms in turn were fed to salamanders, to Mr. Campbell's favorite fish, a fourteen-inch long
smallmouth bass named Carl, to various snakes, and to turtles living in aquariums around the
classroom. From time to time the "soil" in the box was fed to his lush potted plants. 

Mr. Campbell was vermicomposting. This being before the age of ecology and recycling, he probably
just thought of it as raising live food to sustain his educational menagerie. Though I never
had reason to raise worms before, preparing to write this book perked my interest in every
possible method of composting. Not comfortable writing about something I had not done, I built
a small worm box, obtained a pound or so of brandling worms, made bedding, added worms, and
began feeding the contents of my kitchen compost bucket to the box. 

To my secret surprise, vermicomposting works just as Mary Appelhof's book Worms Eat My Garbage
said it would. Worm composting is amazingly easy, although I admit there was a short learning
curve and a few brief spells of sour odors that went away as soon as I stopped overfeeding
the worms. I also discovered that my slapdash homemade box had to have a drip catching pan
beneath it. A friend of mine, who has run her own in-the-house worm box for years, tells me
that diluting these occasional, insignificant and almost odorless dark-colored liquid emissions
with several parts water makes them into excellent fertilizer for house plants or garden. 

It quickly became clear to me that composting with worms conveniently solves several recycling
glitches. How does a northern homeowner process kitchen garbage in the winter when the ground
and compost pile are frozen and there is no other vegetation to mix in? And can an apartment
dweller without any other kind of organic waste except garbage and perhaps newspaper recycle
these at home? The solution to both situations is vermicomposting. 

Worm castings, the end product of vermicomposting, are truly the finest compost you could make
or buy. Compared to the volume of kitchen waste that will go into a worm box, the amount of
castings you end up with will be small, though potent. Apartment dwellers could use worm castings
to raise magnificent house plants or scatter surplus casts under the ornamentals or atop the
lawn around their buildings or in the local park. 

In this chapter, I encourage you to at least try worm composting. I also answer the questions
that people ask the most about using worms to recycle kitchen garbage. As the ever-enthusiastic
Mary Applehof said: 

"I hope it convinces you that you, too, can vermicompost, and that this simple process with
the funny name is a lot easier to do than you thought. After all, if worms eat my garbage,
they will eat yours, too." 

Locating the Worms 

The species of worm used for vermicomposting has a number of common names: red worms, red wigglers,
manure worms, or brandling worms. Redworms are healthy and active as long as they are kept
above freezing and below 85 degree. Even if the air temperature gets above 85 degree, their
moist bedding will be cooled by evaporation as long as air circulation is adequate. They are
most active and will consume the most waste between 55-77 degree--room temperatures. Redworms
need to live in a moist environment but must breath air through their skin. Keeping their bedding
damp is rarely the problem; preventing it from becoming waterlogged and airless can be a difficulty.

In the South or along the Pacific coast where things never freeze solid, worms may be kept
outside in a shallow shaded pit (as long as the spot does not become flooded) or in a box in
the garage or patio. In the North, worms are kept in a container that may be located anywhere
with good ventilation and temperatures that stay above freezing but do not get too hot. Good
spots for a worm box are under the kitchen sink, in the utility room, or in the basement. The
kitchen, being the source of the worm's food, is the most convenient, except for the danger
of temporary odors. 

If you have one, a basement may be the best location because it is out of the way. While you
are learning to manage your worms there may be occasional short-term odor problems or fruit
flies; these won't be nearly as objectionable if the box is below the house. Then too, a vermicomposter
can only exist in a complex ecology of soil animals. A few of these may exit the box and be
harmlessly found about the kitchen. Ultra-fastidious housekeepers may find this objectionable.
Basements also tend to maintain a cooler temperature in summer. However, it is less convenient
to take the compost bucket down to the basement every few days. 

Containers 

Redworms need to breathe oxygen, but in deep containers bedding can pack down and become airless,
temporarily preventing the worms from eating the bottom material. This might not be so serious
because you will stir up the box from time to time when adding new food. But anaerobic decomposition
smells bad. If aerobic conditions are maintained, the odor from a worm box is very slight and
not particularly objectionable. I notice the box's odor only when I am adding new garbage and
get my nose up close while stirring the material. A shallow box will be better aerated because
it exposes much more surface area. Worm bins should be from eight to twelve inches deep. 

I constructed my own box out of some old plywood. A top is not needed because the worms will
not crawl out. In fact, when worm composting is done outdoors in shallow pits, few redworms
exit the bottom by entering the soil because there is little there for them to eat. Because
air flow is vital, numerous holes between 1/4 and 1/2 inch in diameter should be made in the
bottom and the box must then have small legs or cleats about 1/2 to 3/4 of an inch thick to
hold it up enough to let air flow beneath. Having a drip-catcher--a large cookie tray works
well--is essential. Worms can also be kept in plastic containers (like dish pans) with holes
punched in the bottom. As this book is being written, one mail-order garden supply company
even sells a tidy-looking 19" by 24" by about 12" deep green plastic vermicomposting bin with
drip pan, lid, and an initial supply of worms and bedding. If worm composting becomes more
popular, others will follow suit. 

Unless you are very strong do not construct a box larger than 2 x 4 feet because they will
need to be lifted from time to time. Wooden boxes should last three or four years. If built
of plywood, use an exterior grade to prevent delamination. It is not advisable to make containers
from rot-resistant redwood or cedar because the natural oils that prevent rotting also may
be toxic to worms. Sealed with polyurethane, epoxy, or other non-toxic waterproofing material,
worm boxes should last quite a bit longer. 

How big a box or how many boxes do you need? Each cubic foot of worm box can process about
one pound of kitchen garbage each week. Naturally, some weeks more garbage will go into the
box than others. The worms will adjust to such changes. You can estimate box size by a weekly
average amount of garbage over a three month time span. My own home-garden-supplied kitchen
feeds two "vegetableatarian" adults. Being year-round gardeners, our kitchen discards a lot
of trimmings that would never leave a supermarket and we throw out as "old," salad greens that
are still fresher than most people buy in the store. I'd say our 2-1/2 gallon compost bucket
is dumped twice a week in winter and three times in summer. From May through September while
the garden is "on," a single, 2 foot x 4 foot by 12 inch tall (8 cubic foot) box is not enough
for us. 

Bedding 

Bedding is a high C/N material that holds moisture, provides an aerobic medium worms can exist
in, and allows you to bury the garbage in the box. The best beddings are also light and airy,
helping to maintain aerobic conditions. Bedding must not be toxic to worms because they'll
eventually eat it. Bedding starts out dry and must be first soaked in water and then squeezed
out until it is merely very damp. Several ordinary materials make fine bedding. You may use
a single material bedding or may come to prefer mixtures. 

If you have a power shredder, you can grind corrugated cardboard boxes. Handling ground up
cardboard indoors may be a little dusty until you moisten it. Shredded cardboard is sold in
bulk as insulation but this material has been treated with a fire retardant that is toxic.
Gasoline-powered shredders can also grind up cereal straw or spoiled grass hay (if it is dry
and brittle). Alfalfa hay will decompose too rapidly. 

Similarly, shredded newsprint makes fine bedding. The ink is not toxic, being made from carbon
black and oil. By tearing with the grain, entire newspaper sections can rapidly be ripped into
inch-wide shreds by hand. Other shredded paper may be available from banks, offices, or universities
that may dispose of documents. 

Ground-up leaves make terrific bedding. Here a power shredder is not necessary. An ordinary
lawnmower is capable of chopping and bagging large volumes of dry leaves in short order. These
may be prepared once a year and stored dry in plastic garbage bags until needed. A few 30-gallon
bags will handle your vermicomposting for an entire year. However, dry leaves may be a little
slower than other materials to rehydrate. 

Peat moss is widely used as bedding by commercial worm growers. It is very acid and contains
other substances harmful to worms that are first removed by soaking the moss for a few hours
and then hand-squeezing the soggy moss until it is damp. Then a little lime is added to adjust
the pH. 

Soil 

Redworms are heat-tolerant litter dwellers that find little to eat in soil. Mixing large quantities
of soil into worm bedding makes a very heavy box. However, the digestive system of worms grinds
food using soil particles as the abrasive grit in the same way birds "chew" in their crop.
A big handful of added soil will improve a worm box. A couple of tablespoonfuls of powdered
agricultural lime does the same thing while adding additional calcium to nourish the worms. 

Redworms 

The scientific name of the species used in vermicomposting is Eisenia foetida. They may be
purchased by mail from breeders, from bait stores, and these days, even from mail-order garden
supply companies. Redworms may also be collected from compost and manure piles after they have
heated and are cooling. 

Nightcrawlers and common garden worms play a very important part in the creation and maintenance
of soil fertility. But these species are soil dwellers that require cool conditions. They cannot
survive in a shallow worm box at room temperatures. 

Redworms are capable of very rapid reproduction at room temperatures in a worm box. They lay
eggs encased in a lemon-shaped cocoon about the size of a grain of rice from which baby worms
will hatch. The cocoons start out pearly white but as the baby worms develop over a three week
period, the eggs change color to yellow, then light brown, and finally are reddish when the
babies are ready to hatch. Normally, two or three young worms emerge from a cocoon. 

Hatchlings are whitish and semi-transparent and about one-half inch long. It would take about
150,000 hatchlings to weigh one pound. A redworm hatchling will grow at an explosive rate and
reach sexual maturity in four to six weeks. Once it begins breeding a redworm makes two to
three cocoons a week for six months to a year; or, one breeding worm can make about 100 babies
in six months. And the babies are breeding about three months after the first eggs are laid. 

Though this reproductive rate is not the equal of yeast (capable of doubling every twenty minutes),
still a several-hundred-fold increase every six months is amazingly fast. When vermicomposting,
the worm population increase is limited by available food and space and by the worms' own waste
products or casts. Worm casts are slightly toxic to worms. When a new box starts out with fresh
bedding it contains no casts. As time goes on, the bedding is gradually broken down by cellulose-eating
microorganisms whose decay products are consumed by the worms and the box gradually fills with
casts. 

As the proportion of casts increases, reproduction slows, and mature worms begin to die. However,
you will almost never see a dead worm in a worm box because their high-protein bodies are rapidly
decomposed. You will quickly recognize worm casts. Once the bedding has been consumed and the
box contains only worms, worm casts, and fresh garbage it is necessary to empty the casts,
replace the bedding, and start the cycle over. How to do this will be explained in a moment.
But first, how many worms will you need to begin vermicomposting? 

You could start with a few dozen redworms, patiently begin by feeding them tiny quantities
of garbage and in six months to a year have a box full. However, you'll almost certainly want
to begin with a system that can consume all or most of your kitchen garbage right away. So
for starters you'll need to obtain two pounds of worms for each pound of garbage you'll put
into the box each day. Suppose in an average week your kitchen compost bucket takes in seven
pounds of waste or about one gallon. That averages one pound per day. You'll need about two
pounds of worms. 

You'll also need a box that holds six or seven cubic feet, or about 2 x 3 feet by 12 inches
deep. Each pound of worms needs three or four cubic feet of bedding. A better way to estimate
box size is to figure that one cubic foot of worm bin can digest about one pound of kitchen
waste a week without going anaerobic and smelling bad. 

Redworms are small and consequently worm growers sell them by the pound. There are about 1,000
mature breeders to the pound of young redworms. Bait dealers prefer to sell only the largest
sizes or their customers complain. "Red wigglers" from a bait store may only count 600 to the
pound. Worm raisers will sell "pit run" that costs much less. This is a mix of worms of all
sizes and ages. Often the largest sizes will have already been separated out for sale as fish
bait. That's perfectly okay. Since hatchlings run 150,000 to the pound and mature worms count
about 600-700, the population of a pound of pit run can vary greatly. A reasonable pit run
estimate is 2,000 to the pound. 

Actually it doesn't matter what the number is, it is their weight that determines how much
they'll eat. Redworms eat slightly more than their weight in food every day. If that is so,
why did I recommend first starting vermicomposting with two pounds of worms for every pound
of garbage? Because the worms you'll buy will not be used to living in the kind of bedding
you'll give them nor adjusted to the mix of garbage you'll feed them. Initially there may be
some losses. After a few weeks the surviving worms will have adjusted. 

Most people have little tolerance for outright failure. But if they have a record of successes
behind them, minor glitches won't stop them. So it is vital to start with enough worms. The
only time vermicomposting becomes odoriferous is when the worms are fed too much. If they quickly
eat all the food that they are given the system runs remarkably smoothly and makes no offense.
Please keep that in mind since there may well be some short-lived problems until you learn
to gauge their intake. 

Setting Up a Worm Box 

Redworms need a damp but not soggy environment with a moisture content more or less 75 percent
by weight. But bedding material starts out very dry. So weigh the bedding and then add three
times that weight of water. The rule to remember here is "a pint's a pound the world 'round,"
or one gallon of water weighs about eight pounds. As a gauge, it takes 1 to 1-1/2 pounds of
dry bedding for each cubic foot of box. 

Preparing bedding material can be a messy job The best container is probably an empty garbage
can, though in a pinch it can be done in a kitchen sink or a couple of five gallon plastic
buckets. Cautiously put half the (probably dusty) bedding in the mixing container. Add about
one-half the needed water and mix thoroughly. Then add two handfuls of soil, the rest of the
bedding, and the balance of the water. Continue mixing until all the water has been absorbed.
Then spread the material evenly through your empty worm box. If you've measured correctly no
water should leak out the bottom vent holes and the bedding should not drip when a handful
is squeezed moderately hard. 

Then add the worms. Spread your redworms over the surface of the bedding. They'll burrow under
the surface to avoid the light and in a few minutes will be gone. Then add garbage. When you
do this the first time, I suggest that you spread the garbage over the entire surface and mix
it in using a three-tined hand cultivator. This is the best tool to work the box with because
the rounded points won't cut worms. 

Then cover the box. Mary Applehof suggests using a black plastic sheet slightly smaller than
the inside dimensions of the container. Black material keeps out light and allows the worms
to be active right on the surface. You may find that a plastic covering retains too much moisture
and overly restricts air flow. When I covered my worm box with plastic it dripped too much.
But then, most of what I feed the worms is fresh vegetable material that runs 80-90 percent
water. Other households may feed dryer material like stale bread and leftovers. I've found
that on our diet it is better to keep the box in a dimly lit place and to use a single sheet
of newspaper folded to the inside dimensions of the box as a loose cover that encourages aeration,
somewhat reduces light on the surface, and lessens moisture loss yet does not completely stop it. 

Feeding the Worms 

Redworms will thrive on any kind of vegetable waste you create while preparing food. Here's
a partial list to consider: potato peelings, citrus rinds, the outer leaves of lettuce and
cabbage, spinach stems, cabbage and cauliflower cores, celery butts, plate scrapings, spoiled
food like old baked beans, moldy cheese and other leftovers, tea bags, egg shells, juicer pulp.
The worms' absolute favorite seems to be used coffee grounds though these can ferment and make
a sour smell. 

Drip coffee lovers can put the filters in too. This extra paper merely supplements the bedding.
Large pieces of vegetable matter can take a long time to be digested. Before tossing cabbage
or cauliflower cores or celery butts into the compost bucket, cut them up into finer chunks
or thin slices. It is not necessary to grind the garbage. Everything will break down eventually. 

Putting meat products into a worm box may be a mistake. The odors from decaying meat can be
foul and it has been known to attract mice and rats. Small quantities cut up finely and well
dispersed will digest neatly. Bones are slow to decompose in a worm box. If you spread the
worm casts as compost it may not look attractive containing whitened, picked-clean bones. Chicken
bones are soft and may disappear during vermicomposting. If you could grind bones before sending
them to the worm bin, they would make valuable additions to your compost. Avoid putting non-biodegradable
items like plastic, bottle caps, rubber bands, aluminum foil, and glass into the worm box. 

Do not let your cat use the worm bin as a litter box.. The odor of cat urine would soon become
intolerable while the urine is so high in nitrogen that it might kill some worms. Most seriously,
cat manure can transmit the cysts of a protozoan disease organism called Toxoplasma gondii,
although most cats do not carry the disease. These parasites may also be harbored in adult
humans without them feeling any ill effects. However, transmitted from mother to developing
fetus, Toxoplasma gondii can cause brain damage. You are going to handle the contents of your
worm bin and won't want to take a chance on being infected with these parasites. 

Most people use some sort of plastic jar, recycled half-gallon yogurt tub, empty waxed paper
milk carton, or similar thing to hold kitchen garbage. Odors develop when anaerobic decomposition
begins. If the holding tub is getting high, don't cover it, feed it to the worms. 

It is neater to add garbage in spots rather than mixing it throughout the bin. When feeding
garbage into the worm bin, lift the cover, pull back the bedding with a three-tine hand cultivator,
and make a hole about the size of your garbage container. Dump the waste into that hole and
cover it with an inch or so of bedding. The whole operation only takes a few minutes. A few
days later the kitchen compost bucket will again be ready. Make and fill another hole adjacent
to the first. Methodically go around the box this way. By the time you get back to the first
spot the garbage will have become unrecognizable, the spot will seem to contain mostly worm
casts and bedding, and will not give off strongly unpleasant odors when disturbed. 

Seasonal Overloads 

On festive occasions, holidays, and during canning season it is easy to overload the digestive
capacity of a worm bin. The problem will correct itself without doing anything but you may
not be willing to live with anaerobic odors for a week or two. One simple way to accelerate
the "healing" of an anaerobic box is to fluff it up with your hand cultivator. 

Vegetableatarian households greatly increase the amount of organic waste they generate during
summer. So do people who can or freeze when the garden is "on." One vermicomposting solution
to this seasonal overload is to start up a second, summertime-only outdoor worm bin in the
garage or other shaded location. Appelhof uses an old, leaky galvanized washtub for this purpose.
The tub gets a few inches of fresh bedding and then is inoculated with a gallon of working
vermicompost from the original bin. Extra garbage goes in all summer. Mary says: 

"I have used for a "worm bin annex" an old leaky galvanized washtub, kept outside near the
garage. During canning season the grape pulp, corn cobs, corn husks, bean cuttings and other
fall harvest residues went into the container. It got soggy when it rained and the worms got
huge from all the food and moisture. We brought it inside at about the time of the first frost.
The worms kept working the material until there was no food left. After six to eight months,
the only identifiable remains were a few corn cobs, squash seeds, tomato skins and some undecomposed
corn husks. The rest was an excellent batch of worm castings and a very few hardy, undernourished
worms." 

Vacations 

Going away from home for a few weeks is not a problem. The worms will simply continue eating
the garbage left in the bin. Eventually their food supply will decline enough that the population
will drop. This will remedy itself as soon as you begin feeding the bin again. If a month or
more is going to pass without adding food or if the house will be unheated during a winter
"sabbatical," you should give your worms to a friend to care for. 

Fruit Flies 

Fruit flies can, on occasion, be a very annoying problem if you keep the worm bins in your
house. They will not be present all the time nor in every house at any time but when they are
present they are a nuisance. Fruit flies aren't unsanitary, they don't bite or seek out people
to bother. They seek out over-ripe fruit and fruit pulp. Usually, fruit flies will hover around
the food source that interests them. In high summer we have accepted having a few share our
kitchen along with the enormous spread of ripe and ripening tomatoes atop the kitchen counter.
When we're making fresh "V-7" juice on demand throughout the day, they tend to congregate over
the juicer's discharge pail that holds a mixture of vegetable pulps. If your worm bin contains
these types of materials, fruit flies may find it attractive. 

Appelhof suggests sucking them up with a vacuum cleaner hose if their numbers become annoying.
Fruit flies are a good reason for those of Teutonic tidiness to vermicompost in the basement
or outside the house if possible. 

Maintenance 

After a new bin has been running for a few weeks, you'll see the bedding becoming darker and
will spot individual worm casts. Even though food is steadily added, the bedding will gradually
vanish. Extensive decomposition of the bedding by other small soil animals and microorganisms
begins to be significant. 

As worm casts become a larger proportion of the bin, conditions deteriorate for the worms.
Eventually the worms suffer and their number and activity begins to drop off. Differences in
bedding, temperature, moisture, and the composition of your kitchen's garbage will control
how long it takes but eventually you must separate the worms from their castings and put them
into fresh bedding. If you're using vermicomposting year-round, it probably will be necessary
to regenerate the box about once every four months. 

There are a number of methods for separating redworms from their castings. 

Hand sorting works well after a worm box has first been allowed to run down a bit. The worms
are not fed until almost all their food has been consumed and they are living in nearly pure
castings. Then lay out a thick sheet of plastic at least four feet square on the ground, floor,
or on a table and dump the contents of the worm box on it. 

Make six to nine cone-shaped piles. You'll see worms all over. If you're working inside, make
sure there is bright light in the room. The worms will move into the center of each pile. Wait
five minutes or so and then delicately scrape off the surface of each conical heap, one after
another. By the time you finish with the last pile the worms will have retreated further and
you can begin with the first heap again. 

You repeat this procedure, gradually scraping away casts until there is not much left of the
conical heaps. In a surprisingly short time, the worms will all be squirming in the center
of a small pile of castings. There is no need to completely separate the worms from all the
castings. You can now gather up the worms and place them in fresh bedding to start anew without
further inconvenience for another four months. Use the vermicompost on house plants, in the
garden, or save it for later. 

Hand sorting is particularly useful if you want to give a few pounds of redworms to a friend. 

Dividing the box is another, simpler method. You simply remove about two-thirds of the box's
contents and spread it on the garden. Then refill the box with fresh bedding and distribute
the remaining worms, castings, and food still in the box. Plenty of worms and egg cocoons will
remain to populate the box. The worms that you dumped on the garden will probably not survive
there. 

A better method of dividing a box prevents wasting so many worms. All of the box's contents
are pushed to one side, leaving one-third to one-half of the box empty. New bedding and fresh
food are put on the "new" side. No food is given to the "old" side for a month or so. By that
time virtually all the worms will have migrated to the "new" side. Then the "old" side may
be emptied and refilled with fresh bedding. 

People in the North may want to use a worm box primarily in winter when other composting methods
are inconvenient or impossible. In this case, start feeding the bin heavily from fall through
spring and then let it run without much new food until mid-summer. By that time there will
be only a few worms left alive in a box of castings. The worms may then be separated from their
castings, the box recharged with bedding and the remaining worms can be fed just enough to
increase rapidly so that by autumn there will again be enough to eat all your winter garbage. 

Garbage Can Composting 

Here's a large-capacity vermicomposting system for vegetableatarians and big families. It might
even have sufficient digestive capacity for serious juice makers. You'll need two or three,
20 to 30 gallon garbage cans, metal or plastic. In two of them drill numerous half-inch diameter
holes from bottom to top and in the lid as well. The third can is used as a tidy way to hold
extra dry bedding. 

Begin the process with about 10 inches of moist bedding material and worms on the bottom of
the first can. Add garbage on top without mixing it in and occasionally sprinkle a thin layer
of fresh bedding. 

Eventually the first can will be full though it will digest hundreds of gallons of garbage
before that happens. When finally full, the bulk of its contents will be finished worm casts
and will contain few if any worms. Most of the remaining activity will be on the surface where
there is fresh food and more air. Filling the first can may take six months to a year. Then,
start the second can by transferring the top few inches of the first, which contains most of
the worms, into a few inches of fresh bedding on the bottom of the second can. I'd wait another
month for the worms left in the initial can to finish digesting all the remaining garbage.
Then, you have 25 to 30 gallons of worm casts ready to be used as compost. 

Painting the inside of metal cans with ordinary enamel when they have been emptied will greatly
extend their life. Really high-volume kitchens might run two vermicomposting garbage cans at once. 

PART TWO 

Composting For The Food Gardener 

Introduction 

There is a great deal of confusion in the gardening world about compost, organic matter, humus,
fertilizer and their roles in soil fertility, plant health, animal health, human health and
gardening success. Some authorities seem to recommend as much manure or compost as possible.
Most show inadequate concern about its quality. The slick books published by a major petrochemical
corporation correctly acknowledge that soil organic matter is important but give rather vague
guidelines as to how much while focusing on chemical fertilizers. Organic gardeners denigrate
chemicals as though they were of the devil and like J.I. Rodale in The Organic Front, advise: 

"Is it practical to run a garden exclusively with the use of compost, without the aid of so-called
chemical or artificial fertilizers? The answer is not only yes, but in such case you will have
the finest vegetables obtainable, vegetables fit to grace the table of the most exacting gourmet." 

Since the 1950s a government-funded laboratory at Cornell University has cranked out seriously
flawed studies "proving" that food raised with chemicals is just as or even more nutritious
than organically grown food. The government's investment in "scientific research" was made
to counter unsettling (to various economic interest groups) nutritional and health claims that
the organic farming movement had been making. For example, in The Living Soil, Lady Eve Balfour
observed: 

"I have lived a healthy country existence practically all my life, and for the last 25 years
of it I have been actively engaged in farming. I am physically robust, and have never suffered
a major illness, but until 1938 I was seldom free in winter from some form of rheumatism, and
from November to April I invariably suffered from a continual succession of head colds. I started
making compost by Howard's method using it first on the vegetables for home consumption....
That winter I had no colds at all and almost for the first time in my life was free from rheumatic
pains even in prolonged spells of wet weather." 

Fifty years later there still exists an intensely polarized dispute about the right way to
garden and farm. People who are comfortable disagreeing with Authority and that believe there
is a strong connection between soil fertility and the consequent health of plants, animals,
and humans living on that soil tend to side with the organic camp. People who consider themselves
"practical" or scientific tend to side with the mainstream agronomists and consider chemical
agriculture as the only method that can produce enough to permit industrial civilization to
exist. For many years I was confused by all this. Have you been too? Or have you taken a position
on this controversy and feel that you don't need more information? I once thought the organic
camp had all the right answers but years of explaining soil management in gardening books made
me reconsider and reconsider again questions like "why is organic matter so important in soil?"
and "how much and what kind do we need?" I found these subjects still needed to have clearer
answers. This book attempts to provide those answers and puts aside ideology. 

A Brief History of the Organic Movement 

How did all of this irresolvable controversy begin over something that should be scientifically
obvious? About 1900, "experts" increasingly encouraged farmers to use chemical fertilizers
and to neglect manuring and composting as unprofitable and unnecessary. At the time this advice
seemed practical because chemicals did greatly increase yields and profits while chemistry
plus motorized farm machinery minus livestock greatly eased the farmer's workload, allowed
the farmer to abandon the production of low-value fodder crops, and concentrate on higher value
cash crops. 

Perplexing new farming problems--diseases, insects and loss of seed vigor--began appearing
after World War 1. These difficulties did not seem obviously connected to industrial agriculture,
to abandonment of livestock, manuring, composting, and to dependence on chemistry. The troubled
farmers saw themselves as innocent victims of happenstance, needing to hire the chemical plant
doctor much as sick people are encouraged by medical doctors to view themselves as victims,
who are totally irresponsible for creating their condition and incapable of curing it without
costly and dangerous medical intervention. 

Farming had been done holistically since before Roman times. Farms inevitably included livestock,
and animal manure or compost made with manure or green manures were the main sustainers of
soil fertility. In 1900 productive farm soils still contained large reserves of humus from
millennia of manuring. As long as humus is present in quantity, small, affordable amounts of
chemicals actually do stimulate growth, increase yields, and up profits. And plant health doesn't
suffer nor do diseases and insects become plagues. However, humus is not a permanent material
and is gradually decomposed. Elimination of manuring steadily reduced humus levels and consequently
decreased the life in the soil. And (as will be explained a little later) nitrogen-rich fertilizers
accelerate humus loss. 

With the decline of organic matter, new problems with plant and animal health gradually developed
while insect predation worsened and profits dropped because soils declining in humus need ever
larger amounts of fertilizer to maintain yields. These changes developed gradually and erratically,
and there was a long lag between the first dependence on chemicals, the resulting soil addiction,
and steady increases in farm problems. A new alliance of scientific experts, universities,
and agribusiness interests had self-interested reasons to identify other causes than loss of
soil humus for the new problems. The increasingly troubled farmer's attention was thus fixated
on fighting against plant and animal diseases and insects with newer and better chemicals. 

Just as with farm animals, human health also responds to soil fertility. Industrial agriculture
steadily lowered the average nutritional quality of food and gradually increased human degeneration,
but these effects were masked by a statistical increase in human life span due to improved
public sanitation, vaccinations, and, starting in the 1930s, the first antibiotics. As statistics,
we were living longer but as individuals, we were feeling poorer. Actually, most of the statistical
increase in lifespan is from children that are now surviving childhood diseases. I contend
that people who made it to seven years old a century ago had a chance more-or-less equal to
ours, of surviving past seventy with a greater probability of feeling good in middle-and old
age. People have short memories and tend to think that things always were as they are in the
present. Slow but continuous increases in nutritionally related diseases like tooth decay,
periodontal disease, diabetes, heart disease, birth defects, mental retardation, drug addiction
or cancer are not generally seen as a "new" problem, while subtle reductions in the feeling
of well-being go unnoticed. 

During the 1930s a number of far-seeing individuals began to worry about the social liabilities
from chemically dependent farming. Drs. Robert McCarrison and Weston Price addressed their
concerns to other health professionals. Rudolf Steiner, observing that declines in human health
were preventing his disciples from achieving spiritual betterment started the gentle biodynamic
farming movement. Steiner's principal English speaking followers, Pfeiffer and Koepf, wrote
about biological farming and gardening extensively and well. 

Professor William Albrecht, Chairman of the Soil Department of the University of Missouri,
tried to help farmers raise healthier livestock and made unemotional but very explicit connections
between soil fertility, animal, and human health. Any serious gardener or person interested
in health and preventive medicine will find the books of all these unique individuals well
worth reading. 

I doubt that the writings and lectures of any of the above individuals would have sparked a
bitter controversy like the intensely ideological struggle that developed between the organic
gardening and farming movement and the agribusiness establishment. This was the doing of two
energetic and highly puritanical men: Sir Albert Howard and his American disciple, J.I. Rodale. 

Howard's criticism was correctly based on observations of improved animal and human health
as a result of using compost to build soil fertility. Probably concluding that the average
farmer's weak ethical condition would be unable to resist the apparently profitable allures
of chemicals unless their moral sense was outraged, Howard undertook an almost religious crusade
against the evils of chemical fertilizers. Notice the powerful emotional loading carried in
this brief excerpt from Howard's Soil and Health: 

"Artificial fertilizers lead to artificial nutrition, artificial animals and finally to artificial
men and women." 

Do you want to be "artificial?" Rodale's contentious Organic Front makes readers feel morally
deficient if they do not agree about the vital importance of recycling organic matter. 

"The Chinese do not use chemical fertilizers. They return to the land every bit of organic
matter they can find. In China if you burned over a field or a pile of vegetable rubbish you
would be severely punished. There are many fantastic stories as to the lengths the Chinese
will go to get human excremental matter. A traveler told me that while he was on the toilet
in a Shanghai hotel two men were waiting outside to rush in and make way with the stuff." 

Perhaps you too should be severely punished for wasting your personal organic matter. 

Rodale began proselytizing for the organic movement about 1942. With an intensity unique to
ideologues, he attacked chemical companies, attacked chemical fertilizers, attacked chemical
pesticides, and attacked the scientific agricultural establishment. With a limited technical
education behind him, the well-meaning Rodale occasionally made overstatements, wrote oversimplification
as science, and uttered scientific absurdities as fact. And he attacked, attacked, attacked
all along a broad organic front. So the objects of his attacks defended, defended, defended. 

A great deal of confusion was generated from the contradictions between Rodale's self-righteous
and sometimes scientifically vague positions and the amused defenses of the smug scientific
community. Donald Hopkins' Chemicals, Humus and the Soil is the best, most humane, and emotionally
generous defense against the extremism of Rodale. Hopkins makes hash of many organic principles
while still upholding the vital role of humus. Anyone who thinks of themselves as a supporter
of organic farming and gardening should first dig up this old, out-of-print book, and come
to terms with Hopkins' arguments. 

Organic versus establishment hostilities continued unabated for many years. After his father's
death, Rodale's son and heir to the publishing empire, Robert, began to realize that there
was a sensible middle ground. However, I suppose Robert Rodale perceived communicating a less
ideological message as a problem: most of the readers of Organic Gardening and Farming magazine
and the buyers of organic gardening books published by Rodale Press weren't open to ambiguity. 

I view organic gardeners largely as examples of American Puritanism who want to possess an
clear, simple system of capital "T" truth, that brooks no exceptions and has no complications
or gray areas. "Organic" as a movement had come to be defined by Rodale publications as growing
food by using an approved list of substances that were considered good and virtuous while shunning
another list that seemed to be considered 'of the devil,' similar to kosher and non-kosher
food in the orthodox Jewish religion. And like other puritans, the organic faithful could consider
themselves superior humans. 

But other agricultural reformers have understood that there are gray areas--that chemicals
are not all bad or all good and that other sane and holistic standards can be applied to decide
what is the best way to go about raising crops. These people began to discuss new agricultural
methods like Integrated Pest Management [IPM] or Low Input Sustainable Agriculture [LISA],
systems that allowed a minimal use of chemistry without abandoning the focus on soil organic
matter's vital importance. 

My guess is that some years back, Bob Rodale came to see the truth of this, giving him a problem--he
did not want to threaten a major source of political and financial support. So he split off
the "farming" from Organic Gardening and Farming magazine and started two new publications,
one called The New Farm where safely away from less educated unsophisticated eyes he could
discuss minor alterations in the organic faith without upsetting the readers of Organic Gardening. 

Today's Confusions 

I have offered this brief interpretation of the organic gardening and farming movement primarily
for the those gardeners who, like me, learned their basics from Rodale Press. Those who do
not now cast this heretical book down in disgust but finish it will come away with a broader,
more scientific understanding of the vital role of organic matter, some certainty about how
much compost you really need to make and use, and the role that both compost and fertilizers
can have in creating and maintaining the level of soil fertility needed to grow a great vegetable
garden. 

CHAPTER SEVEN 

Humus and Soil Productivity 

Books about hydroponics sound plausible. That is, until you actually see the results. Plants
grown in chemical nutrient solutions may be huge but look a little "off." Sickly and weak somehow.
Without a living soil, plants can not be totally healthy or grow quite as well as they might. 

By focusing on increasing and maximizing soil life instead of adding chemical fertility, organic
farmers are able to grow excellent cereals and fodder. On richer soils they can even do this
for generations, perhaps even for millennia without bringing in plant nutrients from elsewhere.
If little or no product is sent away from the farm, this subsistence approach may be a permanent
agricultural system. But even with a healthy ecology few soils are fertile enough by themselves
to permit continuous export of their mineral resources by selling crops at market. 

Take one step further. Cereals are mostly derived from hardy grasses while other field crops
have similar abilities to thrive while being offered relatively low levels of nutrients. With
good management, fertile soils are able to present these lower nutritional levels to growing
plants without amendment or fortification with potent, concentrated nutrient sources. But most
vegetables demand far higher levels of support. Few soils, even fertile soils that have never
been farmed, will grow vegetables without improvement. Farmers and gardeners must increase
fertility significantly if they want to grow great vegetables. The choices they make while
doing this can have a strong effect, not only on their immediate success or failure, but on
the actual nutritional quality of the food that they produce. 

How Humus Benefits Soil 

The roots of plants, soil animals, and most soil microorganisms need to breathe oxygen. Like
other oxygen burners, they expel carbon dioxide. For all of them to grow well and be healthy,
the earth must remain open, allowing air to enter and leave freely. Otherwise, carbon dioxide
builds up to toxic levels. Imagine yourself being suffocated by a plastic bag tied around your
neck. It would be about the same thing to a root trying to live in compacted soil. 

A soil consisting only of rock particles tends to be airless. A scientist would say it had
a high bulk density or lacked pore space. Only coarse sandy soil remains light and open without
organic matter. Few soils are formed only of coarse sand, most are mixtures of sand, silt and
clay. Sands are sharp-sided, relatively large rock particles similar to table salt or refined
white sugar. Irregular edges keep sand particles separated, and allow the free movement of
air and moisture. 

Silt is formed from sand that has weathered to much smaller sizes, similar to powdered sugar
or talcum powder. Through a magnifying lens, the edges of silt particles appear rounded because
weak soil acids have actually dissolved them away. A significant amount of the nutrient content
of these decomposed rock particles has become plant food or clay. Silt particles can compact
tightly, leaving little space for air. 

As soil acids break down silts, the less-soluble portions recombine into clay crystals. Clay
particles are much smaller than silt grains. It takes an electron microscope to see the flat,
layered structures of clay molecules. Shales and slates are rocks formed by heating and compressing
clay. Their layered fracture planes mimic the molecules from which they were made. Pure clay
is heavy, airless and a very poor medium for plant growth. 

Humusless soils that are mixtures of sand, silt, and clay can become extremely compacted and
airless because the smaller silt and clay particles sift between the larger sand bits and densely
fill all the pore spaces. These soils can also form very hard crusts that resist the infiltration
of air, rain, or irrigation water and prevent the emergence of seedlings. Surface crusts form
exactly the same way that concrete is finished. 

Have you ever seen a finisher screed a concrete slab? First, smooth boards and then, large
trowels are run back and forth over liquid concrete. The motion separates the tiny bits of
fine sand and cement from denser bits of gravel. The "fines" rise to the surface where they
are trowelled into a thin smooth skin. The same thing happens when humusless soil is rained
on or irrigated with sprinklers emitting a coarse, heavy spray. The droplets beat on the soil,
mechanically separating the lighter "fines" (in this case silt and clay) from larger, denser
particles. The sand particles sink, the fines rise and dry into a hard, impenetrable crust. 

Organic matter decomposing in soil opens and loosens soil and makes the earth far more welcoming
to plant growth. Its benefits are both direct and indirect. Decomposing organic matter mechanically
acts like springy sponges that reduce compaction. However, rotting is rapid and soon this material
and its effect is virtually gone. You can easily create this type of temporary result by tilling
a thick dusting of peat moss into some poor soil. 

A more significant and longer-lasting soil improvement is created by microorganisms and earthworms,
whose activities makes particles of sand, silt, and clay cling strongly together and form large,
irregularly-shaped grains called "aggregates" or "crumbs" that resist breaking apart. A well-developed
crumb structure gives soil a set of qualities farmers and gardeners delightfully refer to as
"good tilth." The difference between good and poor tilth is like night and day to someone working
the land. For example, if you rotary till unaggregated soil into a fluffy seedbed, the first
time it is irrigated, rained on, or stepped on it slumps back down into an airless mass and
probably develops a hard crust as well. However, a soil with good tilth will permit multiple
irrigations and a fair amount of foot traffic without compacting or crusting. 

Crumbs develop as a result of two similar, interrelated processes. Earthworms and other soil
animals make stable humus crumbs as soil, clay and decomposing organic matter pass through
their digestive systems. The casts or scats that emerge are crumbs. Free-living soil microorganisms
also form crumbs. As they eat organic matter they secrete slimes and gums that firmly cement
fine soil particles together into long lasting aggregates. 

I sadly observe what happens when farmers allow soil organic matter to run down every time
I drive in the country. Soil color that should be dark changes to light because mineral particles
themselves are usually light colored or reddish; the rich black or chestnut tone soil can get
is organic matter. Puddles form when it rains hard on perfectly flat humusless fields and may
stand for hours or days, driving out all soil air, drowning earthworms, and suffocating crop
roots. On sloping fields the water runs off rather than percolating in. Evidence of this can
be seen in muddy streams and in more severe cases, by little rills or mini-gullies across the
field caused by fast moving water sweeping up soil particles from the crusted surface as it
leaves the field. 

Later, the farmers will complain of drought or infertility and seek to support their crops
with irrigation and chemicals. Actually, if all the water that had fallen on the field had
percolated into the earth, the crops probably would not have suffered at all even from extended
spells without rain. These same humusless fields lose a lot more soil in the form of blowing
dust clouds when tilled in a dryish state. 

The greatest part of farm soil erosion is caused by failing to maintain necessary levels of
humus. As a nation, America is losing its best cropland at a nonsustainable rate. No civilization
in history has yet survived the loss of its prime farmland. Before industrial technology placed
thousands of times more force into the hands of the farmer, humans still managed to make an
impoverished semi-desert out of every civilized region within 1,000-1,500 years. This sad story
is told in Carter and Dale's fascinating, but disturbing, book called Topsoil and Civilization
that I believe should be read by every thoughtful person. Unless we significantly alter our
"improved" farming methods we will probably do the same to America in another century or two. 

The Earthworm's Role in Soil Fertility 

Soil fertility has been gauged by different measures. Howard repeatedly insisted that the only
good yardstick was humus content. Others are so impressed by the earthworm's essential functions
that they count worms per acre and say that this number measures soil fertility. The two standards
of evaluation are closely related. 

When active, some species of earthworms daily eat a quantity of soil equal to their own body
weight. After passing through the worm's gut, this soil has been chemically altered. Minerals,
especially phosphorus which tends to be locked up as insoluble calcium phosphate and consequently
unavailable to plants, become soluble in the worm's gut, and thus available to nourish growing
plants. And nitrogen, unavailably held in organic matter, is altered to soluble nitrate nitrogen.
In fact, compared to the surrounding soil, worm casts are five times as rich in nitrate nitrogen;
twice as rich in soluble calcium; contain two and one-half times as much available magnesium;
are seven times as rich in available phosphorus, and offer plants eleven times as much potassium.
Earthworms are equally capable of making trace minerals available. 

Highly fertile earthworm casts can amount to a large proportion of the entire soil mass. When
soil is damp and cool enough to encourage earthworm activity, an average of 700 pounds of worm
casts per acre are produced each day. Over a year's time in the humid eastern United States,
100,000 pounds of highly fertile casts per acre may be generated. Imagine! That's like 50 tons
of low-grade fertilizer per acre per year containing more readily available NPK, Ca, Mg and
so forth, than farmers apply to grow cereal crops like wheat, corn, or soybeans. A level of
fertility that will grow wheat is not enough nutrition to grow vegetables, but earthworms can
make a major contribution to the garden. 

At age 28, Charles Darwin presented "On the Formation of Mould" to the Geological Society of
London. This lecture illustrated the amazing churning effect of the earthworm on soil. Darwin
observed some chunks of lime that had been left on the surface of a meadow. A few years later
they were found several inches below the surface. Darwin said this was the work of earthworms,
depositing castings that "sooner or later spread out and cover any object left on the surface." 

Earthworms also prevent runoff. They increase percolation of water into fine-textured soils
by making a complex system of interconnected channels or tunnels throughout the topsoil. In
one study, soil lacking worms had an absorption rate of 0.2 inches of rainfall per minute.
Earthworms were added and allowed to work over that soil sample for one month. Then, infiltration
rates increased to 0.9 inches of rainfall per minute. Much of what we know about earthworms
is due to Dr. Henry Hopp who worked for the United States Department of Agriculture during
the 1940s. Dr. Hopp's interesting booklet, What Every Gardener Should Know About Earthworms.
is still in print. In one Hopp research project, some very run-down clay soil was placed in
six large flowerpots. Nothing was done to a pair of control pots, fertilizer was blended in
and grass sod grown on two others, while mulch was spread over two more. Then worms were added
to one of each pair of pots. In short order all of the worms added to the unimproved pot were
dead. There was nothing in that soil to feed them. The sod alone increased percolation but
where the sod or mulch fed a worm population, infiltration of water was far better. 

Amendment to clay soil   Percolation rate in inches per minute 
                         Without worms    With worms
None                     0.0              0.0
Grass and fertilizer     0.2              0.8
Mulch                    0.0              1.5

Most people who honestly consider these facts conclude that the earthworm's activities are
a major factor in soil productivity. Study after scientific study has shown that the quality
and yield of pastures is directly related to their earthworm count. So it seems only reasonable
to evaluate soil management practices by their effect on earthworm counts. 

Earthworm populations will vary enormously according to climate and native soil fertility.
Earthworms need moisture; few if any will be found in deserts. Highly mineralized soils that
produce a lot of biomass will naturally have more worms than infertile soils lacking humus.
Dr. Hopp surveyed worm populations in various farm soils. The table below shows what a gardener
might expect to find in their own garden by contrasting samples from rich and poor soils. The
data also suggest a guideline for how high worm populations might be usefully increased by
adding organic matter. The worms were counted at their seasonal population peak by carefully
examining a section of soil exactly one foot square by seven inches deep. If you plan to take
a census in your own garden, keep in mind that earthworm counts will be highest in spring. 

Earthworms are inhibited by acid soils and/or soils deficient in calcium. Far larger populations
of worms live in soils that weathered out of underlying limestone rocks. In one experiment,
earthworm counts in a pasture went up from 51,000 per acre in acid soil to 441,000 per acre
two years after lime and a non-acidifying chemical fertilizer was spread. Rodale and Howard
loudly and repeatedly contended that chemical fertilizers decimate earthworm populations. Swept
up in what I view as a self-righteous crusade against chemical agriculture, they included all
fertilizers in this category for tactical reasons. 

Location        Worms per sq. ft. Worms per acre  Marcellus, NY   38                1,600,000
Ithica, NY      4                 190,000  Frederick, MD   50                2,200,000  Beltsville,
MD  8                 350,000  Zanesville, OH  37                1,600,000  Coshocton, OH 
5                 220,000  Mayaquez, P.R.* 6                 260,000 

*Because of the high rate of bacterial decomposition, few earthworms are found in tropical
soils unless they are continuously ammended with substantial quantities of organic matter. 

Howard especially denigrated sulfate of ammonia and single superphosphate as earthworm poisons.
Both of these chemical fertilizers are made with sulfuric acid and have a powerful acidifying
reaction when they dissolve in soil. Rodale correctly pointed out that golf course groundskeepers
use repeated applications of ammonium sulfate to eliminate earthworms from putting greens.
(Small mounds of worm casts made by nightcrawlers ruin the greens' perfectly smooth surface
so these worms are the bane of greenskeepers.) However, ammonium sulfate does not eliminate
or reduce worms when the soil contains large amounts of chalk or other forms of calcium that
counteract acidity. 

The truth of the matter is that worms eat decaying organic matter and any soil amendment that
increases plant growth without acidifying soil will increase earthworm food supply and thus
worm population. Using lime as an antidote to acid-based fertilizers prevents making the soil
inhospitable to earthworms. And many chemical fertilizers do not provoke acid reactions. The
organic movement loses this round-but not the battle. And certainly not the war. 

Food supply primarily determines earthworm population. To increase their numbers it is merely
necessary to bring in additional organic matter or add plant nutrients that cause more vegetation
to be grown there. In one study, simply returning the manure resulting from hay taken off a
pasture increased earthworms by one-third. Adding lime and superphosphate to that manure made
an additional improvement of another 33 percent. Every time compost is added to a garden, the
soil's ability to support earthworms increases. 

Some overly enthusiastic worm fanciers believe it is useful to import large numbers of earthworms.
I do not agree. These same self-interested individuals tend to breed and sell worms. If the
variety being offered is Eisenia foetida, the brandling, red wiggler, or manure worm used in
vermicomposting, adding them to soil is a complete waste of money. This species does not survive
well in ordinary soil and can breed in large numbers only in decomposing manure or other proteinaceous
organic waste with a low C/N. All worm species breed prolifically. If there are any desirable
worms present in soil, their population will soon match the available food supply and soil
conditions. The way to increase worm populations is to increase organic matter, up mineral
fertility, and eliminate acidity. 

Earthworms and their beneficial activities are easily overlooked and left out of our contemplations
on proper gardening technique. But understanding their breeding cycle allows gardeners to easily
assist the worms efforts to multiply. In temperate climates, young earthworms hatch out in
the fall when soil is cooling and moisture levels are high. As long as the soil is not too
cold they feed actively and grow. By early spring these young worms are busily laying eggs.
With summer's heat the soil warms and dries out. Even if the gardener irrigates, earthworms
naturally become less active. They still lay a few eggs but many mature worms die. During high
summer the few earthworms found will be small and young. Unhatched eggs are plentiful but not
readily noticed by casual inspection so gardeners may mistakenly think they have few worms
and may worry about how to increase their populations. With autumn the population cycle begins
anew. 

Soil management can greatly alter worm populations. But, how the field is handled during summer
has only a slight effect. Spring and summer tillage does kill a few worms but does not damage
eggs. By mulching, the soil can be kept cooler and more favorable to worm activities during
summer while surface layers are kept moister. Irrigation helps similarly. Doing these things
will allow a gardener the dubious satisfaction of seeing a few more worms during the main gardening
season. However, soil is supposed to become inhospitably hot and dry during summer (worm's
eye view) and there's not much point in struggling to maintain large earthworm populations
during that part of the year. Unfortunately, summer is when gardeners pay the closest attention
to the soil. 

Worms maintain their year-round population by overwintering and then laying eggs that hatch
late in the growing season. The most harm to worm multiplication happens by exposing bare soil
during winter. Worm activity should be at a peak during cool weather. Though worms inadvertently
pass a lot of soil through their bodies as they tunnel, soil is not their food. Garden worms
and nightcrawlers intentionally rise to the surface to feed. They consume decaying vegetation
lying on the surface. Without this food supply they die off. And in northern winters worms
must be protected from suddenly experiencing freezing temperatures while they "harden off"
and adapt themselves to surviving in almost frozen soil. Under sod or where protected by insulating
mulch or a layer of organic debris, soil temperature drops gradually as winter comes on. But
the first day or two of cold winter weather may freeze bare soil solid and kill off an entire
field full of worms before they've had a chance to adapt. 

Almost any kind of ground cover will enhance winter survival. A layer of compost, manure, straw,
or a well-grown cover crop of ryegrass, even a thin mulch of grass clippings or weeds can serve
as the food source worms need. Dr. Hopp says that soil tilth can be improved a great deal merely
by assisting worms over a single winter. 

Gardeners can effectively support the common earthworm without making great alterations in
the way we handle our soil. From a worm's viewpoint, perhaps the best way to recycle autumn
leaves is to till them in very shallowly over the garden so they serve as insulation yet are
mixed with enough soil so that decomposition is accelerated. Perhaps a thorough garden clean-up
is best postponed until spring, leaving a significant amount of decaying vegetation on top
of the soil. (Of course, you'll want to remove and compost any diseased plant material or species
that may harbor overwintering pests.) The best time to apply compost to tilled soil may also
be during the autumn and the very best way is as a dressing atop a leaf mulch because the compost
will also accelerate leaf decomposition. This is called "sheet composting" and will be discussed
in detail shortly. 

Certain pesticides approved for general use can severely damage earthworms. Carbaryl (Sevin),
one of the most commonly used home garden chemical pesticides, is deadly to earthworms even
at low levels. Malathion is moderately toxic to worms. Diazinon has not been shown to be at
all harmful to earthworms when used at normal rates. 

Just because a pesticide is derived from a natural source and is approved for use on crops
labeled "organically grown" is no guarantee that it is not poisonous to mammals or highly toxic
to earthworms. For example, rotenone, an insecticide derived from a tropical root called derris,
is as poisonous to humans as organophosphate chemical pesticides. Even in very dilute amounts,
rotenone is highly toxic to fish and other aquatic life. Great care must be taken to prevent
it from getting into waterways. In the tropics, people traditionally harvest great quantities
of fish by tossing a handful of powdered derris (a root containing rotenone) into the water,
waiting a few minutes, and then scooping up stunned, dead, and dying fish by the ton. Rotenone
is also deadly to earthworms. However, rotenone rarely kills worms because it is so rapidly
biodegradable. Sprayed on plants to control beetles and other plant predators, its powerful
effect lasts only a day or so before sun and moisture break it down to harmless substances.
But once I dusted an entire raised bed of beetle-threatened bush bean seedlings with powdered
rotenone late in the afternoon. The spotted beetles making hash of their leaves were immediately
killed. Unexpectedly, it rained rather hard that evening and still-active rotenone was washed
off the leaves and deeply into the soil. The next morning the surface of the bed was thickly
littered with dead earthworms. I've learned to treat rotenone with great caution. 

Microbes and Soil Fertility 

There are still other holistic standards to measure soil productivity. With more than adequate
justification the great Russian soil microbiologist N.S. Krasilnikov judged fertility by counting
the numbers of microbes present. He said, 

". . soil fertility is determined by biological factors, mainly by microorganisms. The development
of life in soil endows it with the property of fertility. The notion of soil is inseparable
from the notion of the development of living organisms in it. Soil is created by microorganisms.
Were this life dead or stopped, the former soil would become an object of geology [not biology]." 

Louise Howard, Sir Albert's second wife, made a very similar judgment in her book, Sir Albert
Howard in India. 

"A fertile soil, that is, a soil teeming with healthy life in the shape of abundant microflora
and microfauna, will bear healthy plants, and these, when consumed by animals and man, will
confer health on animals and man. But an infertile soil, that is, one lacking in sufficient
microbial, fungous, and other life, will pass on some form of deficiency to the plants, and
such plant, in turn, who pass on some form of deficiency to animal and man." 

Although the two quotes substantively agree, Krasilnikov had a broader understanding. The early
writers of the organic movement focused intently on mycorrhizal associations between soil fungi
and plant roots as the hidden secret of plant health. Krasilnikov, whose later writings benefited
from massive Soviet research did not deny the significance of mycorrhizal associations but
stressed plant-bacterial associations. Both views contain much truth. 

Krasilnikov may well have been the greatest soil microbiologist of his era, and Russians in
general seem far ahead of us in this field. It is worth taking a moment to ask why that is
so. American agricultural science is motivated by agribusiness, either by direct subsidy or
indirectly through government because our government is often strongly influenced by major
economic interests. American agricultural research also exists in a relatively free market
where at this moment in history, large quantities of manufactured materials are reliably and
cheaply available. Western agricultural science thus tends to seek solutions involving manufactured
inputs. After all, what good is a problem if you can't solve it by profitably selling something. 

But any Soviet agricultural researcher who solved problems by using factory products would
be dooming their farmers to failure because the U.S.S.R.'s economic system was incapable of
regularly supplying such items. So logically, Soviet agronomy focused on more holistic, low-tech
approaches such as manipulating the soil microecology. For example, Americans scientifically
increase soil nitrogen by spreading industrial chemicals; the Russians found low-tech ways
to brew bacterial soups that inoculated a field with slightly more efficient nitrogen-fixing
microorgamsms. 

Soil microbiology is also a relatively inexpensive line of research that rewards mental cleverness
over massive investment. Multimillion dollar laboratories with high-tech equipment did not
yield big answers when the study was new. Perhaps in this biotech era, recombinant genetics
will find high-tech ways to tailor make improved microorganisms and we'll surpass the Russians. 

Soil microorganism populations are incredibly high. In productive soils there may be billions
to the gram. (One gram of fluffy soil might fill 1/2 teaspoon.) Krasilnikov found great variations
in bacterial counts. Light-colored nonproductive earths of the North growing skimpy conifer
trees or poor crops don't contain very many microorganisms. The rich, black, grain-producing
soils of the Ukraine (like our midwestern corn belt) carry very large microbial populations. 

One must be clever to study soil microbes and fungi. Their life processes and ecological interactions
can't be easily observed directly in the soil with a microscope. Usually, scientists study
microorganisms by finding an artificial medium on which they grow well and observe the activities
of a large colony or pure culture--a very restricted view. There probably are more species
of microorganisms than all other living things combined, yet we often can't identify one species
from another similar one by their appearance. We can generally classify bacteria by shape:
round ones, rod-shaped ones, spiral ones, etc. We differentiate them by which antibiotic kills
them and by which variety of artificial material they prefer to grow on. Pathogens are recognized
by their prey. Still, most microbial activities remain a great mystery. 

Krasilnikov's great contribution to science was discovering how soil microorganisms assist
the growth of higher plants. Bacteria are very fussy about the substrate they'll grow on. In
the laboratory, one species grows on protein gel, another on seaweed. One thrives on beet pulp
while another only grows on a certain cereal extract. Plants "understand" this and manipulate
their soil environment to enhance the reproduction of certain bacteria they find desirable
while suppressing others. This is accomplished by root exudates. 

For every 100 grams of above-ground biomass, a plant will excrete about 25 grams of root exudates,
creating a chemically different zone (rhizosphere) close to the root that functions much like
the culture medium in a laboratory. Certain bacteria find this region highly favorable and
multiply prolifically, others are suppressed. Bacterial counts adjacent to roots will be in
hundreds of millions to billions per gram of soil. A fraction of an inch away beyond the influence
of the exudates, the count drops greatly. 

Why do plants expend energy culturing bacteria? Because there is an exchange, a quid pro quo.
These same bacteria assist the plant in numerous ways. Certain types of microbes are predators.
Instead of consuming dead organic matter they attack living plants. However, other species,
especially actinomycetes, give off antibiotics that suppress pathogens. The multiplication
of actinomycetes can be enhanced by root exudates. 

Perhaps the most important benefit plants receive from soil bacteria are what Krasilnikov dubbed
"phytamins," a word play on vitamins plus phyta or "plant" in Greek. Helpful bacteria exude
complex water-soluble organic molecules that plants uptake through their roots and use much
like humans need certain vitamins. When plants are deprived of phytamins they are less than
optimally healthy, have lowered disease resistance, and may not grow as large because some
phytamins act as growth hormones. 

Keep in mind that beneficial microorganisms clustering around plant roots do not primarily
eat root exudates; exudates merely optimize environmental conditions to encourage certain species.
The main food of these soil organisms is decaying organic matter and humus. Deficiencies in
organic matter or soil pH outside a comfortable range of 5.75-7.5 greatly inhibit beneficial
microorganisms. 

For a long time it has been standard "chemical" ag science to deride the notion that plant
roots can absorb anything larger than simple, inorganic molecules in water solution. This insupportable
view is no longer politically correct even among adherents of chemical usage. However, if you
should ever encounter an "expert" still trying to intimidate others with these old arguments
merely ask them, since plant roots cannot assimilate large organic molecules, why do people
succeed using systemic chemical pesticides? Systemics are large, complex poisonous organic
molecules that plants uptake through their roots and that then make the above-ground plant
material toxic to predators. Ornamentals, like roses, are frequently protected by systemic
chemical pesticides mixed into chemical fertilizer and fed through the soil. 

Root exudates have numerous functions beyond affecting microorganisms. One is to suppress or
encourage the growth of surrounding plants Gardeners experience this as plant companions and
antagonists. Walnut tree root exudates are very antagonistic to many other species. And members
of the onion family prevent beans from growing well if their root systems are intermixed. 

Many crop rotational schemes exist because the effects of root exudates seem to persist for
one or even two years after the original plant grew That's why onions grow very well when they
are planted where potatoes grew the year before. And why farmers grow a three year rotation
of hay, potatoes and onions. That is also why onions don't grow nearly as well following cabbage
or squash. Farmers have a much easier time managing successions. They can grow 40 acres of
one crop followed by 40 acres of another. But squash from 100 square feet may overwhelm the
kitchen while carrots from the same 100 square feet the next year may not be enough. Unless
you keep detailed records, it is hard to remember exactly where everything grew as long as
two years ago in a vegetable garden and to correlate that data with this year's results. But
when I see half a planting on a raised bed grow well and the adjacent half grow poorly, I assume
the difficulty was caused by exudate remains from whatever grew there one, or even, two years ago. 

In 1990, half of crop "F" grew well, half poorly. this was due to the presence of crop "D"
in 1989. The gardener might remember that "D" was there last year. Few can make this association. 

These effects were one reason that Sir Albert Howard thought it was very foolish to grow a
vegetable garden in one spot for too many years. He recommended growing "healing grass" for
about five years following several years of vegetable gardening to erase all the exudate effects
and restore the soil ecology to normal. 

Mycorrhizal association is another beneficial relationship that should exist between soil organisms
and many higher plants. This symbiotic relationship involves fungi and plant roots. Fungi can
be pathogenic, consuming living plants. But most of them are harmless and eat only dead, decaying
organic matter. Most fungi are soil dwellers though some eat downed or even standing trees. 

Most people do not realize that plant roots adsorb water and water-soluble nutrients only through
the tiny hairs and actively growing tips near the very end of the root. The ability for any
new root to absorb nutrition only lasts a short time, then the hairs slough off and the root
develops a sort of hard bark. If root system growth slows or stops, the plant's ability to
obtain nourishment is greatly reduced. Roots cannot make oxygen out of carbon dioxide as do
the leaves. That's why it is so important to maintain a good supply of soil air and for the
soil to remain loose enough to allow rapid root expansion. 

When roots are cramped, top growth slows or ceases, health and disease resistance drops, and
plants may become stressed despite applications of nutrients or watering. Other plants that
do not seem to be competing for light above ground may have ramified (filled with roots) far
wider expanses soil than a person might think. Once soil is saturated with the roots and the
exudates from one plant, the same space may be closed off to the roots of another. Gardeners
who use close plantings and intensive raised beds often unknowingly bump up against this limiting
factor and are disappointed at the small size of their vegetables despite heavy fertilization,
despite loosening the earth two feet deep with double digging, and despite regular watering.
Thought about in this way, it should be obvious why double digging improves growth on crowded
beds by increasing the depth to which plants can root. 

The roots of plants have no way to aggressively breakdown rock particles or organic matter,
nor to sort out one nutrient from another. They uptake everything that is in solution, no more,
no less while replacing water evaporated from their leaves. However, soil fungi are able to
aggressively attack organic matter and even mineral rock particles and extract the nutrition
they want. Fungi live in soil as long, complexly interconnected hair-like threads usually only
one cell thick. The threads are called "hyphae." Food circulates throughout the hyphae much
like blood in a human body. Sometimes, individual fungi can grow to enormous sizes; there are
mushroom circles hundreds of feet in diameter that essentially are one single very old organism.
The mushrooms we think of when we think "fungus" are actually not the organism, but the transitory
fruit of a large, below ground network. 

Certain types of fungi are able to form a symbiosis with specific plant species. They insert
a hyphae into the gap between individual plant cells in a root hair or just behind the growing
root tip. Then the hyphae "drinks" from the vascular system of the plant, robbing it of a bit
of its life's blood. However, this is not harmful predation because as the root grows, a bark
develops around the hyphae. The bark pinches off the hyphae and it rapidly decays inside the
plant, making a contribution of nutrients that the plant couldn't otherwise obtain. Hyphae
breakdown products may be in the form of complex organic molecules that function as phytamins
for the plant. 

Not all plants are capable of forming mycorrhizal associations. Members of the cabbage family,
for example, do not. However, if the species can benefit from such an association and does
not have one, then despite fertilization the plant will not be as healthy as it could be, nor
grow as well. This phenomenon is commonly seen in conifer tree nurseries where seedling beds
are first completely sterilized with harsh chemicals and then tree seeds sown. Although thoroughly
fertilized, the tiny trees grow slowly for a year or so. Then, as spores of mycorrhizal fungi
begin falling on the bed and their hyphae become established, scattered trees begin to develop
the necessary symbiosis and their growth takes off. On a bed of two-year-old seedlings, many
individual trees are head and shoulders above the others. This is not due to superior genetics
or erratic soil fertility. These are the individuals with a mycorrhizal association. 

Like other beneficial microorganisms, micorrhizal fungi do not primarily eat plant vascular
fluid, their food is decaying organic matter. Here's yet another reason to contend that soil
productivity can be measured by humus content. 

CHAPTER EIGHT 

Maintaining Soil Humus 

Organic matter benefits soil productivity not because it is present, but because all forms
of organic matter in the soil, including its most stable form--humus--are disappearing. Mycorrhizal
fungi and beneficial bacterial colonies around plant roots can exist only by consuming soil
organic matter. The slimes and gums that cement soil particles into relatively stable aggregates
are formed by microorganisms as they consume soil organic matter. Scats and casts that are
soil crumbs form only because organic matter is being consumed. If humus declines, the entire
soil ecology runs down and with it, soil tilth and the health and productivity of plants. 

If you want to manage your garden soil wisely, keep foremost in mind that the rate of humus
loss is far more important than the amount of humus present. However, natural processes remove
humus without our aid or attention while the gardener's task is to add organic matter. So there
is a very understandable tendency to focus on addition, not subtraction. But, can we add too
much? And if so, what happens when we do? 

How Much Humus is Soil Supposed to Have? 

If you measured the organic matter contents of various soils around the United States there
would be wide differences. Some variations on crop land are due to great losses that have been
caused by mismanagement. But even if you could measure virgin soils never used by humans there
still would be great differences. Hans Jenny, a soil scientist at the University of Missouri
during the 1940s, noticed patterns in soil humus levels and explained how and why this occurs
in a wonderfully readable book, Factors in Soil Formation. These days, academic agricultural
scientists conceal the basic simplicity of their knowledge by unnecessarily expressing their
data with exotic verbiage and higher mathematics. In Jenny's time it was not considered demeaning
if an intelligent layman could read and understand the writings of a scientist or scholar.
Any serious gardener who wants to understand the wide differences in soil should become familiar
with Factors in Soil Formation. About organic matter in virgin soils, Jenny said: 

"Within regions of similar moisture conditions, the organic matter content of soil . . . decreases
from north to south. For each fall of 10 degree C (18 degree F) in annual temperature the average
organic matter content of soil increases two or three times, provided that [soil moisture]
is kept constant." 

Moist soil during the growing season encourages plant growth and thus organic matter production.
Where the soil becomes dry during the growing season, plant growth slows or stops. So, all
things being equal, wet soils contain more organic matter than dry ones. All organic matter
eventually rots, even in soil too dry to grow plants. The higher the soil temperature the faster
the decomposition. But chilly (not frozen) soils can still grow a lot of biomass. So, all things
being equal, hot soils have less humus in them than cold ones. Cool, wet soils will have the
highest levels; hot, dry soils will be lowest in humus. 

This model checks out in practice. If we were to measure organic matter in soils along the
Mississippi River where soil moisture conditions remain pretty similar from south to north,
we might find 2 percent in sultry Arkansas, 3 percent in Missouri and over 4 percent in Wisconsin,
where soil temperatures are much lower. In Arizona, unirrigated desert soils have virtually
no organic matter. In central and southern California where skimpy and undependable winter
rains peter out by March, it is hard to find an unirrigated soil containing as much as 1 percent
organic matter while in the cool Maritime northwest, reliable winter rains keep the soil damp
into June and the more fertile farm pastures or natural prairies may develop as much as 5 percent
organic matter. 

Other factors, like the basic mineral content of the soil or its texture, also influence the
amount of organic matter a spot will create and will somewhat increase or decrease the humus
content compared to neighboring locations experiencing the same climate. But the most powerfully
controlling influences are moisture and temperature. 

On all virgin soils the organic matter content naturally sustains itself at the highest possible
level. And, average annual additions exactly match the average annual amount of decomposition.
Think about that for a moment. Imagine that we start out with a plot of finely-ground rock
particles containing no life and no organic matter. As the rock dust is colonized by life forms
that gradually build in numbers it becomes soil. The organic matter created there increases
nutrient availability and accelerates the breakdown of rock particles, further increasing the
creation of organic matter. Soil humus steadily increases. Eventually a climax is sustained
where there is as much humus in the soil as there can be. 

The peak plant and soil ecology that naturally lives on any site is usually very healthy and
is inevitably just as abundant as there is moisture and soil minerals to support it. To me
this suggests how much organic matter it takes to grow a great vegetable garden. My theory
is that in terms of soil organic matter, vegetables grow quite well at the humus level that
would peak naturally on a virgin site. In semi-arid areas I'd modify the theory to include
an increase as a result of necessary irrigation. Expressed as a rough rule of thumb, a mere
2 percent organic matter in hot climates increasing to 5 percent in cool ones will supply sufficient
biological soil activities to grow healthy vegetables if the mineral nutrient levels are high
enough too. 

Recall my assertion that what is most important about organic matter is not how much is present,
but how much is lost each year through decomposition. For only by decomposing does organic
matter release the nutrients it contains so plants can uptake them; only by being consumed
does humus support the microecology that so markedly contributes phytamins to plant nutrition,
aggressively breaks down rock particles and releases the plant nutrients they contain; only
by being eaten does soil organic matter support bacteria and earthworms that improve productivity
and create better tilth. 

Here's something I find very interesting. Temperate climates having seasons and winter, vary
greatly in average temperature. Comparing annual decomposition loss from a hot soil carrying
2 percent humus with annual decomposition loss from a cooler soil carrying 5 percent, roughly
the same amount of organic matter will decay out of each soil during the growing season. This
means that in temperate regions we have to replace about the same amount of organic matter
no matter what the location. 

Like other substantial colleges of agriculture, the University of Missouri ran some very valuable
long-term studies in soil management. In 1888, a never-farmed field of native prairie grasses
was converted into test plots. For fifty succeeding years each plot was managed in a different
but consistent manner. The series of experiments that I find the most helpful recorded what
happens to soil organic matter as a consequence of farming practices. The virgin prairie had
sustained an organic matter content of about 3.5 percent. The lines on the graph show what
happened to that organic matter over time. 

Timothy grass is probably a slightly more efficient converter of solar energy into organic
matter than was the original prairie. After fifty years of feeding the hay cut from the field
and returning all of the livestock's manure, the organic matter in the soil increased about
1/2 percent. Obviously, green manuring has very limited ability to increase soil humus above
climax levels. Growing oats and returning enough manure to represent the straw and grain fed
to livestock, the field held its organic matter relatively constant. 

Growing small grain and removing everything but the stubble for fifty years greatly reduced
the organic matter. Keep in mind that half the biomass production in a field happens below
ground as roots. And keep in mind that the charts don't reveal the sad appearance the crops
probably had once the organic matter declined significantly. Nor do they show that the seed
produced on those degenerated fields probably would no longer sprout well enough to be used
as seedgrain, so new seed would have been imported into the system each season, bringing with
it new supplies of plant nutrients. Without importing that bushel or so of wheat seed on each
acre each year, the curves would have been steeper and gone even lower. 

Corn is the hardest of the cereals on soil humus. The reason is, wheat is closely broadcast
in fall and makes a thick grassy overwintering stand that forms biomass out of most of the
solar energy striking the field from spring until early summer when the seed forms. Leafy oats
create a little more biomass than wheat. Corn, on the other hand, is frost tender and can't
be planted early. It is also not closely planted but is sown in widely-spaced rows. Corn takes
quite a while before it forms a leaf canopy that uses all available solar energy. In farming
lingo, corn is a "row crop." 

Vegetables are also row crops. Many types don't form dense canopies that soak up all solar
energy for the entire growing season like a virgin prairie. As with corn, the ground is tilled
bare, so for much of the best part of the growing season little or no organic matter is produced.
Of all the crops that a person can grow, vegetables are the hardest on soil organic matter.
There is no way that vegetables can maintain soil humus, even if all their residues are religiously
composted and returned. Soil organic matter would decline markedly even in an experiment in
which we raised some small animals exclusively on the vegetables and returned all of their
manure and urine too. 

When growing vegetables we have to restore organic matter beyond the amount the garden itself
produces. The curves showing humus decline at the University of Missouri give us a good hint
as to how much organic matter we are going to lose from vegetable gardening. Let's make the
most pessimistic possible estimate and suppose that vegetable gardening is twice as hard on
soil as was growing corn and removing everything but the stubble and root systems. 

With corn, about 40 percent of the entire organic matter reserve is depleted in the first ten
years. Let's suppose that vegetables might remove almost all soil humus in ten years, or 10
percent each year for the first few years. This number is a crude. and for most places in America,
a wildly pessimistic guess. 

However, 10 percent loss per year may understate losses in some places. I have seen old row
crop soils in California's central valley that look like white-colored blowing dust. Nor does
a 10 percent per year estimate quite allow for the surprising durability I observe in the still
black and rich-looking old vegetable seed fields of western Washington State's Skaget Valley.
These cool-climate fields have suffered chemical farming for decades without having been completely
destroyed--yet. 

How much loss is 10 percent per year? Let's take my own garden for example. It started out
as an old hay pasture that hadn't seen a plow for twenty-five or more years and where, for
the five years I've owned the property, the annual grass production is not cut, baled, and
sold but is cut and allowed to lie in place. Each year's accumulation of minerals and humus
contributes to the better growth of the next year's grass. Initially, my grass had grown a
little higher and a little thicker each year. But the steady increase in biomass production
seems to have tapered off in the last couple of years. I suppose by now the soil's organic
matter content probably has been restored and is about 5 percent. 

I allocate about one acre of that old pasture to garden land. In any given year my shifting
gardens occupy one-third of that acre. The other two-thirds are being regenerated in healing
grass. I measure my garden in fractions of acres. Most city folks have little concept of an
acre; its about 40,000 square feet, or a plot 200' x 200'. 

Give or take some, the plow pan of an acre weighs about two million pounds. The plow pan is
that seven inches of topsoil that is flipped over by a moldboard plow, the seven inches where
most biological activity occurs, where virtually all of the soil's organic matter resides.
Two million pounds equals one thousand tons of topsoil in the first seven inches of an acre.
Five percent of that one thousand tons can be organic matter, up to fifty priceless tons of
life that changes 950 tons of dead dust into a fertile, productive acre. If 10 percent of that
fifty tons is lost as a consequence of one year's vegetable gardening, that amounts to five
tons per acre per year lost or about 25 pounds lost per 100 square feet. 

Patience, reader. There is a very blunt and soon to be a very obvious point to all of this
arithmetic. Visualize this! Lime is spread at rates up to four tons per acre. Have you ever
spread 1 T/A or 50 pounds of lime over a garden 33 x 33 feet? Mighty hard to accomplish! Even
200 pounds of lime would barely whiten the ground of a 1,000 square-foot garden. It is even
harder to spread a mere 5 tons of compost over an acre or only 25 pounds on a 100-square-foot
bed. It seems as though nothing has been accomplished, most of the soil still shows, there
is no layer of compost, only a thin scattering. 

But for the purpose of maintaining humus content of vegetable ground at a healthy level, a
thin scattering once a year is a gracious plenty. Even if I were starting with a totally depleted,
dusty, absolutely humusless, ruined old farm field that had no organic matter whatsoever and
I wanted to convert it to a healthy vegetable garden, I would only have to make a one-time
amendment of 50 tons of ripe compost per acre or 2,500 pounds per 1,000 square feet. Now 2,500
pounds of humus is a groaning, spring-sagging, long-bed pickup load of compost heaped up above
the cab and dripping off the sides. Spread on a small garden, that's enough to feel a sense
of accomplishment about. Before I knew better I used to incorporate that much composted horse
manure once or twice a year and when I did add a half-inch thick layer that's about what I
was applying. 

Fertilizing Vegetables with Compost 

Will a five ton per acre addition of compost provide enough nutrition to grow great vegetables?
Unfortunately, the answer usually is no. In most gardens, in most climates, with most of what
passes for "compost," it probably won't. That much compost might well grow decent wheat. 

The factors involved in making this statement are numerous and too complex to fully analyze
in a little book like this one. They include the intrinsic mineralization of the soil itself,
the temperature of the soil during the growing season, and the high nutritional needs of the
vegetables themselves. In my experience, a few alluvial soils that get regular, small additions
of organic matter can grow good vegetable crops without additional help. However, these sites
are regularly flooded and replenished with highly mineralized rock particles. Additionally,
they must become very warm during the growing season. But not all rock particles contain high
levels of plant nutrients and not all soils get hot enough to rapidly break down soil particles. 

Soil temperature has a great deal to do with how effectively compost can act as fertilizer.
Sandy soils warm up much faster in spring and sand allows for a much freer movement of air,
so humus decomposes much more rapidly in sand. Perhaps a sunny, sandy garden on a south-facing
slope might grow pretty well with small amounts of strong compost. As a practical matter, if
most people spread even the most potent compost over their gardens at only twenty-five pounds
per 100 square feet, they would almost certainly be disappointed. 

Well then, if five tons of quality compost to the acre isn't adequate for most vegetables,
what about using ten or twenty tons of the best. Will that grow a good garden? Again, the answer
must allow for a lot of factors but is generally more positive. If the compost has a low C/N
and that compost, or the soil itself, isn't grossly deficient in some essential nutrient, and
if the soil has a coarse, airy texture that promotes decomposition, then somewhat heavier applications
will grow a good-looking garden that yields a lot of food. 

However, one question that is rarely asked and even more rarely answered satisfactorily in
the holistic farming and gardening lore is: Precisely how much organic matter or humus is needed
to maximize plant health and the nutritional qualities of the food we're growing? An almost
equally important corollary of this is: Can there be too much organic matter? 

This second question is not of practical consequence for biological grain/livestock farmers
because it is almost financially impossible to raise organic matter levels on farm soils to
extraordinary amounts. Large-scale holistic farmers must grow their own humus on their own
farm. Their focus cannot be on buying and bringing in large quantities of organic matter; it
must be on conserving and maximizing the value of the organic matter they produce themselves. 

Where you do hear of an organic farmer (not vegetable grower but cereal/livestock farmer) building
extraordinary fertility by spreading large quantities of compost, remember that this farmer
must be located near an inexpensive source of quality material. If all the farmers wanted to
do the same there would not be enough to go around at an economic price unless, perhaps, the
entire country became a "closed system" like China. We would have to compost every bit of human
excrement and organic matter and there still wouldn't be enough to meet the demand. Even if
we became as efficient as China, keep in mind the degraded state of China's upland soils and
the rapid desertification going on in their semi-arid west. China is robbing Peter to pay Paul
and may not have a truly sustainable agriculture either. 

I've frequently encountered a view among devotees of the organic gardening movement that if
a little organic matter is a good thing, then more must be better and even more better still.
In Organic Gardening magazine and Rodale garden books we read eulogies to soils that are so
high in humus and so laced with earthworms that one can easily shove their arm into the soft
earth elbow deep but must yank it out fast before all the hairs have been chewed off by worms,
where one must jump away after planting corn seeds lest the stalk poke you in the eye, where
the pumpkins average over 100 pounds each, where a single trellised tomato vine covers the
entire south side of a house and yields bushels. All due to compost. 

I call believers of the organic faith capital "O" organic gardeners. These folks almost inevitably
have a pickup truck used to gather in their neighborhood's leaves and grass clippings on trash
day and to haul home loads from local stables and chicken ranches. Their large yards are ringed
with compost bins and their annual spreadings of compost are measured in multiples of inches.
I was one once, myself.

There are two vital and slightly disrespectful questions that should be asked about this extreme
of gardening practice. Is this much humus the only way to grow big, high-yielding organic vegetable
gardens and two, are vegetables raised on soils super-high in humus maximally nutritious. If
the answer to the first question is no, then a person might avoid a lot of work by raising
the nutrient level of their soil in some other manner acceptable to the organic gardener. If
the answer to the second question is less nutritious, then serious gardeners and homesteaders
who are making home-grown produce into a significant portion of their annual caloric intake
had better reconsider their health assumptions. A lot of organic gardeners cherish ideas similar
to the character Woody Allen played in his movie, Sleeper. 

Do you recall that movie? It is about a contemporary American who, coming unexpectedly close
to death, is frozen and then reanimated and healed 200 years in the future. However, our hero
did not expect to die or be frozen when he became ill and upon awakening believes the explanation
given to him is a put on and that his friends are conspiring to make him into a fool. The irritated
doctor in charge tells Woody to snap out of it and be prepared to start a new life. This is
no joke, says the doctor, all of Woody's friends are long since dead. Woody's response is a
classic line that earns me a few chuckles from the audience every time I lecture: 'all my friends
can't be dead! I owned a health food store and we all ate brown rice.' 

Humus and the Nutritional Quality of Food 

