Allan-a-Sop thanked his stepfather for so happy a suggestion, which he declared he would put
in execution forthwith. Accordingly, setting sail the next morning, he appeared before MacKinnon's
house an hour before noon. The old chief of Ulva was much alarmed at the menacing apparition
of so many galleys, and his anxiety was not lessened by the news, that they were commanded
by the redoubted Allan-a-Sop. Having no effectual means of resistance, MacKinnon, who was a
man of shrewd sense, saw no alternative save that of receiving the invaders, whatever might
be their purpose, with all outward demonstrations of joy and satisfaction. He caused immediate
preparations to be made for a banquet as splendid as circumstances admitted, hastened down
to the shore to meet the rover, and welcomed him to Ulva with such an appearance of sincerity,
that the pirate found it impossible to pick any quarrel which might afford a pretence for executing
the violent purpose which he had been led to meditate.

They feasted together the whole day; and in the evening, as Allan-a-Sop was about to retire
to his ships, he thanked the Laird of MacKinnon for his entertainment, but remarked, with a
sigh, that it had cost him very dear. "How can that be" said MacKinnon, "when I bestowed this
entertainment upon you in free good-will?"--"It is true, my friend," replied the pirate, "but
then it has quite disconcerted the purpose for which I came hither; which was to put you to
death, my good friend, and seize upon your house and island, and so settle myself in the world.
It would have been very convenient, this island, but your friendly reception has rendered it
impossible for me to execute my purpose; so that I must be a wanderer on the seas for some
time longer." Whatever MacKinnon felt at hearing that he had been so near to destruction, he
took care to show no emotion save surprise, and replied to his visiter,--"My dear Allan, who
was it that put into your mind so unkind a purpose towards your old friend; for I am sure it
never arose from your own generous nature? It must have been your father-in-law, old Torloisk,
who made such an indifferent husband to your mother, and such an unfriendly stepfather to you
when you were a helpless boy; but now, when he sees you a bold and powerful leader, he desires
to make a quarrel betwixt you and those who were the friends of your youth. If you consider
this matter rightly, Allan, you will see that the estate and harbour of Torloisk lie as conveniently
for you as those of Ulva, and that, if you are to make a settlement by force, it is much better
it should be at the expense of the old churl, who never showed you kindness or countenance,
than at that of a friend like me, who always loved and honoured you."

Allan-a-Sop was struck with the justice of this reasoning; and the old offence of his scalded
fingers was suddenly recalled to his mind. "It is very true what you say, MacKinnon," he replied,
"and, besides, I have not forgotten what a hot breakfast my father-in-law treated me to one
morning. Farewell for the present; you shall soon hear news of me from the other side of the
Sound." Having said thus much, the pirate got on board, and commanding his men to unmoor the
galleys, sailed back to Torloisk, and prepared to land in arms. His father-in-law hastened
to meet him, in expectation to hear of the death of his enemy, MacKinnon. But Allan greeted
him in a very different manner from what he expected. "You hoary old traitor," he said, "you
instigated my simple good-nature to murder a better man than yourself. But have you forgotten
how you scorched my fingers twenty years ago, with a burning cake? The day is come that that
breakfast must be paid for.