Few phenomena gave me more delight than to observe the forms which thawing sand and clay assume
in flowing down the sides of a deep cut on the railroad through which I passed on my way to
the village, a phenomenon not very common on so large a scale, though the number of freshly
exposed banks of the right material must have been greatly multiplied since railroads were
invented. The material was sand of every degree of fineness and of various rich colors, commonly
mixed with a little clay. When the frost comes out in the spring, and even in a thawing day
in the winter, the sand begins to flow down the slopes like lava, sometimes bursting out through
the snow and overflowing it where no sand was to be seen before. Innumerable little streams
overlap and interlace one with another, exhibiting a sort of hybrid product, which obeys half
way the law of currents, and half way that of vegetation. As it flows it takes the forms of
sappy leaves or vines, making heaps of pulpy sprays a foot or more in depth, and resembling,
as you look down on them, the laciniated, lobed, and imbricated thalluses of some lichens;
or you are reminded of coral, of leopard's paws or birds' feet, of brains or lungs or bowels,
and excrements of all kinds. It is a truly grotesque vegetation, whose forms and color we see
imitated in bronze, a sort of architectural foliage more ancient and typical than acanthus,
chiccory, ivy, vine, or any vegetable leaves; destined perhaps, under some circumstances, to
become a puzzle to future geologists. The whole cut impressed me as if it were a cave with
its stalactites laid open to the light. The various shades of the sand are singularly rich
and agreeable, embracing the different iron colors, brown, gray, yellowish, and reddish. When
the flowing mass reaches the drain at the foot of the bank it spreads out flatter into strands,
the separate streams losing their semi-cylindrical form and gradually becoming more flat and
broad, running together as they are more moist, till they form an almost flat sand, still variously
and beautifully shaded, but in which you can trace the original forms of vegetation; till at
length, in the water itself, they are converted into banks, like those formed off the mouths
of rivers, and the forms of vegetation are lost in the ripple marks on the bottom.

The whole bank, which is from twenty to forty feet high, is sometimes overlaid with a mass
of this kind of foliage, or sandy rupture, for a quarter of a mile on one or both sides, the
produce of one spring day. What makes this sand foliage remarkable is its springing into existence
thus suddenly. When I see on the one side the inert bank--for the sun acts on one side first--and
on the other this luxuriant foliage, the creation of an hour, I am affected as if in a peculiar
sense I stood in the laboratory of the Artist who made the world and me--had come to where
he was still at work, sporting on this bank, and with excess of energy strewing his fresh designs
about. I feel as if I were nearer to the vitals of the globe, for this sandy overflow is something
such a foliaceous mass as the vitals of the animal body. You find thus in the very sands an
anticipation of the vegetable leaf. No wonder that the earth expresses itself outwardly in
leaves, it so labors with the idea inwardly. The atoms have already learned this law, and are
pregnant by it. The overhanging leaf sees here its prototype. Internally, whether in the globe
or animal body, it is a moist thick lobe, a word especially applicable to the liver and lungs
and the leaves of fat (jnai, labor, lapsus, to flow or slip downward, a lapsing; jiais, globus,
lobe, globe; also lap, flap, and many other words); externally a dry thin leaf, even as the
f and v are a pressed and dried b. The radicals of lobe are lb, the soft mass of the b (single
lobed, or B, double lobed), with the liquid l behind it pressing it forward. In globe, glb,
the guttural g adds to the meaning the capacity of the throat. The feathers and wings of birds
are still drier and thinner leaves. Thus, also, you pass from the lumpish grub in the earth
to the airy and fluttering butterfly. The very globe continually transcends and translates
itself, and becomes winged in its orbit. Even ice begins with delicate crystal leaves, as if
it had flowed into moulds which the fronds of waterplants have impressed on the watery mirror.
The whole tree itself is but one leaf, and rivers are still vaster leaves whose pulp is intervening
earth, and towns and cities are the ova of insects in their axils.

When the sun withdraws the sand ceases to flow, but in the morning the streams will start once
more and branch and branch again into a myriad of others. You here see perchance how blood-vessels
are formed. If you look closely you observe that first there pushes forward from the thawing
mass a stream of softened sand with a drop-like point, like the ball of the finger, feeling
its way slowly and blindly downward, until at last with more heat and moisture, as the sun
gets higher, the most fluid portion, in its effort to obey the law to which the most inert
also yields, separates from the latter and forms for itself a meandering channel or artery
within that, in which is seen a little silvery stream glancing like lightning from one stage
of pulpy leaves or branches to another, and ever and anon swallowed up in the sand. It is wonderful
how rapidly yet perfectly the sand organizes itself as it flows, using the best material its
mass affords to form the sharp edges of its channel. Such are the sources of rivers. In the
silicious matter which the water deposits is perhaps the bony system, and in the still finer
soil and organic matter the fleshy fibre or cellular tissue. What is man but a mass of thawing
clay? The ball of the human finger is but a drop congealed. The fingers and toes flow to their
extent from the thawing mass of the body. Who knows what the human body would expand and flow
out to under a more genial heaven? Is not the hand a spreading palm leaf with its lobes and
veins? The ear may be regarded, fancifully, as a lichen, umbilicaria, on the side of the head,
with its lobe or drop. The lip--labium, from labor (?)--laps or lapses from the sides of the
cavernous mouth. The nose is a manifest congealed drop or stalactite. The chin is a still larger
drop, the confluent dripping of the face. The cheeks are a slide from the brows into the valley
of the face, opposed and diffused by the cheek bones. Each rounded lobe of the vegetable leaf,
too, is a thick and now loitering drop, larger or smaller; the lobes are the fingers of the
leaf; and as many lobes as it has, in so many directions it tends to flow, and more heat or
other genial influences would have caused it to flow yet farther.

Thus it seemed that this one hillside illustrated the principle of all the operations of Nature.
The Maker of this earth but patented a leaf. What Champollion will decipher this hieroglyphic
for us, that we may turn over a new leaf at last? This phenomenon is more exhilarating to me
than the luxuriance and fertility of vineyards. True, it is somewhat excrementitious in its
character, and there is no end to the heaps of liver, lights, and bowels, as if the globe were
turned wrong side outward; but this suggests at least that Nature has some bowels, and there
again is mother of humanity. This is the frost coming out of the ground; this is Spring. It
precedes the green and flowery spring, as mythology precedes regular poetry. I know of nothing
more purgative of winter fumes and indigestions. It convinces me that Earth is still in her
swaddling-clothes, and stretches forth baby fingers on every side. Fresh curls spring from
the baldest brow. There is nothing inorganic. These foliaceous heaps lie along the bank like
the slag of a furnace, showing that Nature is "in full blast" within. The earth is not a mere
fragment of dead history, stratum upon stratum like the leaves of a book, to be studied by
geologists and antiquaries chiefly, but living poetry like the leaves of a tree, which precede
flowers and fruit--not a fossil earth, but a living earth; compared with whose great central
life all animal and vegetable life is merely parasitic. Its throes will heave our exuviae from
their graves. You may melt your metals and cast them into the most beautiful moulds you can;
they will never excite me like the forms which this molten earth flows out into. And not only
it, but the institutions upon it are plastic like clay in the hands of the potter.

Ere long, not only on these banks, but on every hill and plain and in every hollow, the frost
comes out of the ground like a dormant quadruped from its burrow, and seeks the sea with music,
or migrates to other climes in clouds. Thaw with his gentle persuasion is more powerful than
Thor with his hammer. The one melts, the other but breaks in pieces.

When the ground was partially bare of snow, and a few warm days had dried its surface somewhat,
it was pleasant to compare the first tender signs of the infant year just peeping forth with
the stately beauty of the withered vegetation which had withstood the winter--life-everlasting,
goldenrods, pinweeds, and graceful wild grasses, more obvious and interesting frequently than
in summer even, as if their beauty was not ripe till then; even cotton-grass, cat-tails, mulleins,
johnswort, hard-hack, meadow-sweet, and other strong-stemmed plants, those unexhausted granaries
which entertain the earliest birds--decent weeds, at least, which widowed Nature wears. I am
particularly attracted by the arching and sheaf-like top of the wool-grass; it brings back
the summer to our winter memories, and is among the forms which art loves to copy, and which,
in the vegetable kingdom, have the same relation to types already in the mind of man that astronomy
has. It is an antique style, older than Greek or Egyptian. Many of the phenomena of Winter
are suggestive of an inexpressible tenderness and fragile delicacy. We are accustomed to hear
this king described as a rude and boisterous tyrant; but with the gentleness of a lover he
adorns the tresses of Summer.

At the approach of spring the red squirrels got under my house, two at a time, directly under
my feet as I sat reading or writing, and kept up the queerest chuckling and chirruping and
vocal pirouetting and gurgling sounds that ever were heard; and when I stamped they only chirruped
the louder, as if past all fear and respect in their mad pranks, defying humanity to stop them.
No, you don't--chickaree--chickaree. They were wholly deaf to my arguments, or failed to perceive
their force, and fell into a strain of invective that was irresistible.

The first sparrow of spring! The year beginning with younger hope than ever! The faint silvery
warblings heard over the partially bare and moist fields from the bluebird, the song sparrow,
and the red-wing, as if the last flakes of winter tinkled as they fell! What at such a time
are histories, chronologies, traditions, and all written revelations? The brooks sing carols
and glees to the spring. The marsh hawk, sailing low over the meadow, is already seeking the
first slimy life that awakes. The sinking sound of melting snow is heard in all dells, and
the ice dissolves apace in the ponds. The grass flames up on the hillsides like a spring fire--"et
primitus oritur herba imbribus primoribus evocata"--as if the earth sent forth an inward heat
to greet the returning sun; not yellow but green is the color of its flame;--the symbol of
perpetual youth, the grass-blade, like a long green ribbon, streams from the sod into the summer,
checked indeed by the frost, but anon pushing on again, lifting its spear of last year's hay
with the fresh life below. It grows as steadily as the rill oozes out of the ground. It is
almost identical with that, for in the growing days of June, when the rills are dry, the grass-blades
are their channels, and from year to year the herds drink at this perennial green stream, and
the mower draws from it betimes their winter supply. So our human life but dies down to its
root, and still puts forth its green blade to eternity.

Walden is melting apace. There is a canal two rods wide along the northerly and westerly sides,
and wider still at the east end. A great field of ice has cracked off from the main body. I
hear a song sparrow singing from the bushes on the shore--olit, olit, olit--chip, chip, chip,
che char--che wiss, wiss, wiss. He too is helping to crack it. How handsome the great sweeping
curves in the edge of the ice, answering somewhat to those of the shore, but more regular!
It is unusually hard, owing to the recent severe but transient cold, and all watered or waved
like a palace floor. But the wind slides eastward over its opaque surface in vain, till it
reaches the living surface beyond. It is glorious to behold this ribbon of water sparkling
in the sun, the bare face of the pond full of glee and youth, as if it spoke the joy of the
fishes within it, and of the sands on its shore--a silvery sheen as from the scales of a leuciscus,
as it were all one active fish. Such is the contrast between winter and spring. Walden was
dead and is alive again. But this spring it broke up more steadily, as I have said.

The change from storm and winter to serene and mild weather, from dark and sluggish hours to
bright and elastic ones, is a memorable crisis which all things proclaim. It is seemingly instantaneous
at last. Suddenly an influx of light filled my house, though the evening was at hand, and the
clouds of winter still overhung it, and the eaves were dripping with sleety rain. I looked
out the window, and lo! where yesterday was cold gray ice there lay the transparent pond already
calm and full of hope as in a summer evening, reflecting a summer evening sky in its bosom,
though none was visible overhead, as if it had intelligence with some remote horizon. I heard
a robin in the distance, the first I had heard for many a thousand years, methought, whose
note I shall not forget for many a thousand more--the same sweet and powerful song as of yore.
O the evening robin, at the end of a New England summer day! If I could ever find the twig
he sits upon! I mean he; I mean the twig. This at least is not the Turdus migratorius. The
pitch pines and shrub oaks about my house, which had so long drooped, suddenly resumed their
several characters, looked brighter, greener, and more erect and alive, as if effectually cleansed
and restored by the rain. I knew that it would not rain any more. You may tell by looking at
any twig of the forest, ay, at your very wood-pile, whether its winter is past or not. As it
grew darker, I was startled by the honking of geese flying low over the woods, like weary travellers
getting in late from Southern lakes, and indulging at last in unrestrained complaint and mutual
consolation. Standing at my door, I could bear the rush of their wings; when, driving toward
my house, they suddenly spied my light, and with hushed clamor wheeled and settled in the pond.
So I came in, and shut the door, and passed my first spring night in the woods.

In the morning I watched the geese from the door through the mist, sailing in the middle of
the pond, fifty rods off, so large and tumultuous that Walden appeared like an artificial pond
for their amusement. But when I stood on the shore they at once rose up with a great flapping
of wings at the signal of their commander, and when they had got into rank circled about over
my head, twenty-nine of them, and then steered straight to Canada, with a regular honk from
the leader at intervals, trusting to break their fast in muddier pools. A "plump" of ducks
rose at the same time and took the route to the north in the wake of their noisier cousins.

For a week I heard the circling, groping clangor of some solitary goose in the foggy mornings,
seeking its companion, and still peopling the woods with the sound of a larger life than they
could sustain. In April the pigeons were seen again flying express in small flocks, and in
due time I heard the martins twittering over my clearing, though it had not seemed that the
township contained so many that it could afford me any, and I fancied that they were peculiarly
of the ancient race that dwelt in hollow trees ere white men came. In almost all climes the
tortoise and the frog are among the precursors and heralds of this season, and birds fly with
song and glancing plumage, and plants spring and bloom, and winds blow, to correct this slight
oscillation of the poles and preserve the equilibrium of nature.

As every season seems best to us in its turn, so the coming in of spring is like the creation
of Cosmos out of Chaos and the realization of the Golden Age.--

  "Eurus ad Auroram Nabathaeaque regna recessit,
   Persidaque, et radiis juga subdita matutinis."

  "The East-Wind withdrew to Aurora and the Nabathean kingdom,
   And the Persian, and the ridges placed under the morning rays.
                          .......

   Man was born.  Whether that Artificer of things,
   The origin of a better world, made him from the divine seed;
   Or the earth, being recent and lately sundered from the high
   Ether, retained some seeds of cognate heaven."

A single gentle rain makes the grass many shades greener. So our prospects brighten on the
influx of better thoughts. We should be blessed if we lived in the present always, and took
advantage of every accident that befell us, like the grass which confesses the influence of
the slightest dew that falls on it; and did not spend our time in atoning for the neglect of
past opportunities, which we call doing our duty. We loiter in winter while it is already spring.
In a pleasant spring morning all men's sins are forgiven. Such a day is a truce to vice. While
such a sun holds out to burn, the vilest sinner may return. Through our own recovered innocence
we discern the innocence of our neighbors. You may have known your neighbor yesterday for a
thief, a drunkard, or a sensualist, and merely pitied or despised him, and despaired of the
world; but the sun shines bright and warm this first spring morning, recreating the world,
and you meet him at some serene work, and see how it is exhausted and debauched veins expand
with still joy and bless the new day, feel the spring influence with the innocence of infancy,
and all his faults are forgotten. There is not only an atmosphere of good will about him, but
even a savor of holiness groping for expression, blindly and ineffectually perhaps, like a
new-born instinct, and for a short hour the south hill-side echoes to no vulgar jest. You see
some innocent fair shoots preparing to burst from his gnarled rind and try another year's life,
tender and fresh as the youngest plant. Even he has entered into the joy of his Lord. Why the
jailer does not leave open his prison doors--why the judge does not dismis his case--why the
preacher does not dismiss his congregation! It is because they do not obey the hint which God
gives them, nor accept the pardon which he freely offers to all.

"A return to goodness produced each day in the tranquil and beneficent breath of the morning,
causes that in respect to the love of virtue and the hatred of vice, one approaches a little
the primitive nature of man, as the sprouts of the forest which has been felled. In like manner
the evil which one does in the interval of a day prevents the germs of virtues which began
to spring up again from developing themselves and destroys them.

"After the germs of virtue have thus been prevented many times from developing themselves,
then the beneficent breath of evening does not suffice to preserve them. As soon as the breath
of evening does not suffice longer to preserve them, then the nature of man does not differ
much from that of the brute. Men seeing the nature of this man like that of the brute, think
that he has never possessed the innate faculty of reason. Are those the true and natural sentiments
of man?"

   "The Golden Age was first created, which without any avenger
    Spontaneously without law cherished fidelity and rectitude.
    Punishment and fear were not; nor were threatening words read
    On suspended brass; nor did the suppliant crowd fear
    The words of their judge; but were safe without an avenger.
    Not yet the pine felled on its mountains had descended
    To the liquid waves that it might see a foreign world,
    And mortals knew no shores but their own.
                          .......
    There was eternal spring, and placid zephyrs with warm
    Blasts soothed the flowers born without seed."

On the 29th of April, as I was fishing from the bank of the river near the Nine-Acre-Corner
bridge, standing on the quaking grass and willow roots, where the muskrats lurk, I heard a
singular rattling sound, somewhat like that of the sticks which boys play with their fingers,
when, looking up, I observed a very slight and graceful hawk, like a nighthawk, alternately
soaring like a ripple and tumbling a rod or two over and over, showing the under side of its
wings, which gleamed like a satin ribbon in the sun, or like the pearly inside of a shell.
This sight reminded me of falconry and what nobleness and poetry are associated with that sport.
The Merlin it seemed to me it might be called: but I care not for its name. It was the most
ethereal flight I had ever witnessed. It did not simply flutter like a butterfly, nor soar
like the larger hawks, but it sported with proud reliance in the fields of air; mounting again
and again with its strange chuckle, it repeated its free and beautiful fall, turning over and
over like a kite, and then recovering from its lofty tumbling, as if it had never set its foot
on terra firma. It appeared to have no companion in the universe--sporting there alone--and
to need none but the morning and the ether with which it played. It was not lonely, but made
all the earth lonely beneath it. Where was the parent which hatched it, its kindred, and its
father in the heavens? The tenant of the air, it seemed related to the earth but by an egg
hatched some time in the crevice of a crag;--or was its native nest made in the angle of a
cloud, woven of the rainbow's trimmings and the sunset sky, and lined with some soft midsummer
haze caught up from earth? Its eyry now some cliffy cloud.

Beside this I got a rare mess of golden and silver and bright cupreous fishes, which looked
like a string of jewels. Ah! I have penetrated to those meadows on the morning of many a first
spring day, jumping from hummock to hummock, from willow root to willow root, when the wild
river valley and the woods were bathed in so pure and bright a light as would have waked the
dead, if they had been slumbering in their graves, as some suppose. There needs no stronger
proof of immortality. All things must live in such a light. O Death, where was thy sting? O
Grave, where was thy victory, then?

Our village life would stagnate if it were not for the unexplored forests and meadows which
surround it. We need the tonic of wildness--to wade sometimes in marshes where the bittern
and the meadow-hen lurk, and hear the booming of the snipe; to smell the whispering sedge where
only some wilder and more solitary fowl builds her nest, and the mink crawls with its belly
close to the ground. At the same time that we are earnest to explore and learn all things,
we require that all things be mysterious and unexplorable, that land and sea be infinitely
wild, unsurveyed and unfathomed by us because unfathomable. We can never have enough of nature.
We must be refreshed by the sight of inexhaustible vigor, vast and titanic features, the sea-coast
with its wrecks, the wilderness with its living and its decaying trees, the thunder-cloud,
and the rain which lasts three weeks and produces freshets. We need to witness our own limits
transgressed, and some life pasturing freely where we never wander. We are cheered when we
observe the vulture feeding on the carrion which disgusts and disheartens us, and deriving
health and strength from the repast. There was a dead horse in the hollow by the path to my
house, which compelled me sometimes to go out of my way, especially in the night when the air
was heavy, but the assurance it gave me of the strong appetite and inviolable health of Nature
was my compensation for this. I love to see that Nature is so rife with life that myriads can
be afforded to be sacrificed and suffered to prey on one another; that tender organizations
can be so serenely squashed out of existence like pulp--tadpoles which herons gobble up, and
tortoises and toads run over in the road; and that sometimes it has rained flesh and blood!
With the liability to accident, we must see how little account is to be made of it. The impression
made on a wise man is that of universal innocence. Poison is not poisonous after all, nor are
any wounds fatal. Compassion is a very untenable ground. It must be expeditious. Its pleadings
will not bear to be stereotyped.

Early in May, the oaks, hickories, maples, and other trees, just putting out amidst the pine
woods around the pond, imparted a brightness like sunshine to the landscape, especially in
cloudy days, as if the sun were breaking through mists and shining faintly on the hillsides
here and there. On the third or fourth of May I saw a loon in the pond, and during the first
week of the month I heard the whip-poor-will, the brown thrasher, the veery, the wood pewee,
the chewink, and other birds. I had heard the wood thrush long before. The phoebe had already
come once more and looked in at my door and window, to see if my house was cavern-like enough
for her, sustaining herself on humming wings with clinched talons, as if she held by the air,
while she surveyed the premises. The sulphur-like pollen of the pitch pine soon covered the
pond and the stones and rotten wood along the shore, so that you could have collected a barrelful.
This is the "sulphur showers" we bear of. Even in Calidas' drama of Sacontala, we read of "rills
dyed yellow with the golden dust of the lotus." And so the seasons went rolling on into summer,
as one rambles into higher and higher grass.

Thus was my first year's life in the woods completed; and the second year was similar to it.
I finally left Walden September 6th, 1847.

Conclusion

