 "Who so wol here it in a longer wise,
  Redeth the grete poete of Itaille,
  That highte Dante, for he can it devise
  Fro point to point, not o word wol he faille."
              The Monkes Tale, 14,769.

 "Bet than Vergile, while he was on live,
  Or Dant also."--The Freres Tale, 7101.

The following lines refer to the Inferno, xiii. 64.:

 "Envie is lavender of the court alway,
  For she ne parteth neither night ne day,
  Out of the house of Cesar, thus saith Dant."
          Prologue to the Legend of Good Women, 359.

"Dant that it tellen can" is mentioned in the House of Fame, book i.; and Chaucer is indebted
to him for some lines in that fine poem, as in the description of the "egle, that with feathers
shone all of gold" = un' aquila nel ciel con penne d'oro; and the following line:

 "O thought, that wrote all that I met."
              House of Fame, ii. 18.

 "O mente, che scrivesti ciò ch' io vidi."
              Inferno, ii. 8.

The Knightes Tale exhibits numerous passages, lines, and expressions verbally translated from
the Teseide of Boccaccio, upon which it is founded; such as Idio armipotente = Mars armipotent;
Eterno admante = Athamant eterne; Paura palida = pale drede; Le ire rosse come focho = the
cruel ire red as any glede. Boccaccio describes the wood in which "Mars hath his sovereine
mansion" as--

 "Una selva sterile de robusti
  Cerri,
  Nodosi aspri e rigidi e vetusti.
  Vi si sentia grandissimo romore,
  Ne vera bestia anchora ne pastore."
              Teseide, book vii.
              The Knightes Tale, 1977.

The death of Arcite is thus related by Boccaccio:

 "La morte in ciascun membro era venuta
  Da piedi in su, venendo verso il petto,
  Ed ancor nelle braccia era perduta
  La vital forza; sol nello intelletto
  E nel cuore era ancora sostenuta
  La poca vita, ma già si ristretto
  Eragli 'l tristo cor del mortal gelo
  Che agli occhi fe' subitamente velo.

 "Ma po' ch' egli ebbe perduto il vedere,
  Con seco cominciò a mormorare,
  Ognor mancando più del suo podere:
  Nè troppo fece in ciò lungo durare;
  Ma il mormorare trasportato in vere
  Parole, con assai basso parlare
  Addio Emilia; e più oltre non disse,
  Chè l' anima convenne si partisse."
              Teseide, book x. 112.

Chaucer loses nothing of this description in his condensed translation:

 "For from his feet up to his brest was come
  The cold of deth, that had him overnome.
  And yet moreover in his armes two
  The vital strength is lost, and all ago.
  Only the intellect, withouten more,
  That dwelled in his herte sike and sore,
  Gan feillen, when the herte felte deth;
  Dusked his eyen two, and failled his breth.
  But on his ladie yet cast he his eye;
  His laste word was; Mercy, Emelie!"
              The Knightes Tale, 2301.

Troilus and Creseide seems to have been translated from the Filostrato of Boccaccio, when {519}
Chaucer was a young man, as we are informed by Dan John Lydgate in the Prologue to his Translation
of Boccaccio's Fall of Princes, where he speaks of his "Maister Chaucer" as the "chefe poete
of Bretayne," and tells us that--

 "In youthe he made a translacion
  Of a boke which called is Trophe,
  In Lumbard tongue, as men may rede and se,
  And in our vulgar, long or that he deyde
  Gave it the name of Troylous and Cresseyde."

Chaucer's translation is sometimes very close, sometimes rather free and paraphrastic, as may
be seen in the following examples:

 "But right as floures through the cold of night
    Yclosed, stoupen in hir stalkes lowe,
  Redressen hem ayen the Sunne bright,
    And spreaden in hir kinde course by rowe."
              Troilus and Creseide, b. ii.

 "Come fioretto dal notturno gelo
  Chinato e chiuso, poi che il Sol l' imbianca,
  S'apre, e si leva dritto sopra il stelo."
              Boccaccio, Il Filostrato, iii. st. 13.

 "She was right soche to sene in her visage
  As is that wight that men on bere ybinde."
              Troilus and Creseide, b. iv.

 "Essa era tale, a guardarla nel viso,
  Qual donna morta alla fossa portata."
              Il Filostrato, v. st. 83.

 "As fresh as faucon coming out of mew."
              Troilus and Creseide, b. iii.

 "Come falcon ch' uscisse dal cappello."
              Il Filostrato, iv. st. 83.
  Ma s' egli è Amor, per Dio che cosa, e quale?
  Se buona, ond' è l' effetto aspro mortale?"
          Petrarca, Rime in Vita di Laura, Son. cii.

 "If no love is, O God, what feele I so?
  And if love is, what thing and which is he?
  If love be good, from whence cometh my wo?"
              Paradiso, xxxiii, I.

 "Thou maide and mother, doughter of thy Son,
  Thou well of mercy, sinful soules cure,
  In whom that God of bountee chees to won;
  Thou humble and high over every creature,
  Thou nobledest so fer forth our nature,
  That no desdaine the maker had of kinde
  His Son in blood and flesh to clothe and winde."
              The Second Nonnes Tale, 15,504.

Traces of Chaucer's proficiency in Italian are discoverable in almost all his poems; but I
shall conclude with two citations from The Assembly of Foules:

 "The day gan failen, and the darke night,
  That reveth beastes from hir businesse,
  Berafte me my booke for lacke of light."
              The Assembly of Foules, I. 85.

 "Lo giorno se n'andava, e l'aer bruno
  Toglieva gli animai che sono in terra
  Dalle fatiche loro."--Inf. ii. 1.

 "With that my hand in his he toke anon,
  Of which I comfort caught, and went in fast."
              The Assembly of Foules, I. 169.
              Inf. iii. 19.

By the way, Chaucer commences The Assembly of Foules with part of the first aphorism of Hippocrates,
"[Greek: Ho bios brachus hê de technê makrê]" (but this, I suppose, had been noticed before):

 "The lyfe so short, the craft so long to lerne."

Chaucer was forty years old, or upwards, in 1372, when he was sent as an envoy to treat with
the duke, citizens, and merchants of Genoa; and if, as is probable, he had translated Troilus
and Creseide out of the "Lombarde tonge" in his youth (according to the testimony of Lydgate),
it is not unreasonable to infer that his knowledge of Italian may have led to his being chosen
to fill that office. But, however this may be, abundant proof has been adduced that Chaucer
was familiarly acquainted with Italian.

I may briefly remark, in conclusion, that the dates and other circumstances favour the supposed
interview at Padua, between Fraunceis Petrark the laureate poet, and Dan Chaucer,

 "Floure of poets throughout all Bretaine."

J. M. B.

Tunbridge Wells.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE REBELLION OF '45.--UNPUBLISHED LETTER.

Inverness, 16th Aprile, 1746.

Dear Sirs,

This day about twelve our army came up with the rebels, about a mile above Lord President's
house, in a muir called Drumrossie. They began the engagement first, by firing from a battery
of six guns they had erected upon their right; but our cannon played so hott upon them, that
they were obliged soon to fly, by which means we gote possession of their artillery, and so
drove them before us for three miles of way. The cavalry gave them closs chase to the town
of Inverness: {520} upon which the French ambassador (who is not well) sent out an officer,
and a drum with him, offering to surrender at discretion; to which the duke made answer, that
the French officers should be allowed to go about on their parole, and nothing taken from them.
Brigadier Stapleton is among them, and God knows how many more officers; for we have not gote
home to count them yet. Its thought the rebels have between four and five hundred killed, and
as many taken prisoners already: many more we expect this night, parties having been sent out
after them. Lord Kilmarnock I saw prisoner, and Major Stewart, with many more. Secretary Murray
is very bad: a party is just now sent for him, intelligence being brought where he is. I don't
think we have lost thirty men, and not above five officers killed, amongst which are Lord Robert
Ker, Captain Grosset: the rest their names I have forgote. We are now in full possession of
this place. Some say the Pretender was in the battle, and wounded; but others say he was not.
Such of them as are left are gone to Fort Augustus. The duke, God be praised, is in good health,
and all the generalls. His Royal Highness behaved as if he had been inspired, riding up and
down giveing orders himself.

  I am, Gentlemen,
      Your most obedt. servant,
          DAVID BRUCE.

After writing y^e above, y^e lists of y^e killed and wounded are as follows, so far as is yet
known:--

  We have of y^e prisoners          700
  Killed and wounded on y^e field  1800

Of y^e duke's army:--

  Killed, wounded, and amissing     220

       *       *       *       *       *

Gentlemen,

I hope you'l pardon y^e confusedness of y^e foregoing line, as I have been in y^e utmost confusion
since I came here. 'Tis said, but not quite certain, y^t y^e following rebells are killed,
viz.:--Lochiel, Capuch (Keppach), Lord Nairn, Lord Lewis Drummond, D. of Perth, Glengarry,
&c. The French have all surrendered prisoners of war.

DAVID BRUCE.

  Addressed to
      The Governors of
          The Town of Aberdeen.

X. Y. Z.

       *       *       *       *       *

OLIVER ST. JOHN.

In giving the lives of the Commonwealth chief justices, Lord Campbell observes (Lives of Chief
Justices, vol. i. p. 447.), "in completing the list with the name of Oliver St. John, I am
well pleased with an opportunity of tracing his career and pourtraying his character." Then
follows a biography of thirty pages. The subject seems to be a favourite one with his lordship,
and he accordingly produces a striking picture, laying on his colours in the approved historical
style of the day, so as to make the painting an effective one, whether the resemblance be faithful
or not. But how is it that the noble biographer appears to be quite unaware of what really
is the only document we have relating to Oliver St. John of his own composition, which does
give us much light as to his career or character? I refer to The Case of Oliver St. John, Esq,
concerning his Actions during the late Troubles, pp. 14., 4to., n.d. It is a privately printed
tract, emanating from St. John himself, and was no doubt circulated amongst persons in power
at the Restoration, with a view to obtaining indemnity and pardon. My copy is signed by himself,
and has some corrections in his autograph. His Defence is full of interesting particulars,
some of which are very inconsistent with Lord Campbell's speculations and statements. It would,
however, occupy too much of your space were I to go through the various articles objected to
by him, and to which he gives his replies and explanations. My object in noticing this tract
at present, is to prevent any future biographer of this Commonwealth worthy, whose life may
well be an historical study, from neglecting an important source of information. I observe
Lord Campbell (p. 473.) doubts whether he favoured the measure of making Cromwell king. But
if we are to believe the title-page of Monarchy asserted, 1660, 12mo., he was one of the speakers
at the conference with Cromwell on the 11th April, 1657, in favour of his assuming the title
of king. On the list of the committee which follows, the "Lord Chief Justice" only is mentioned,
but in the speeches a difference seems to be made between "Lord Chief Justice" (pp. 6. 7. 15.)
and "Lord Chief Justice Glynne" (p. 44.), and they would seem to be two different speakers.
The title-page states distinctly, "the arguments of Oliver St. John, Lord Chief Justice, Lord
Chief Justice Glyn, &c., members of that committee."

JAS. CROSSLEY.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES ON SEVERAL MISUNDERSTOOD WORDS.

(Continued from p. 402.)

No did, no will, no had, &c.--

 "K. John.     .    .    .   I had a mighty cause
  To wish him dead, but thou hadst none to kill him.

  Hubert. No had (my Lord), why, did you not provoke me?"
              King John, Act IV. Sc. 2.

So the first folio edition of Shakspeare. A palpable error, as the commentators of the present
would pleasantly observe, and all the world would echo the opinion; but here, as in most other
{521} instances, commentators and all the world may be wrong, and the folios right. The passage
has accordingly been corrupted by the editors of Shakspeare into what was more familiar to
their modern ears: "Had none, my Lord!" Though the mode of speech be very common, yet, to deprive
future editors of all excuse for ever again depraving the genuine text of our national Bible,
I shall make no apology for accumulating a string of examples:

 "Fort. Oh, had I such a hat, then were I brave!
  Where's he that made it?

  Sol. Dead: and the whole world
  Yields not a workman that can frame the like.

  Fort. No does?"
     "Old Fortunatus," Old English Plays, vol. iii. p. 140., by Dilke:

who alters "No does?" into None does? thinking, I presume, that he had thereby simplified the
sentence:

 "John. I am an elde fellowe of fifty wynter and more,
  And yet in all my lyfe I knewe not this before.

  Parson. No dyd, why sayest thou so, upon thyselfe thou lyest,
  Thou haste euer knowen the sacramente to be the body of Christ."
              John Bon and Mast Person.

    "Chedsey. Christ said 'Take, eat, this is my body;' and not 'Take ye,
    eat ye.'

    Philpot. No did, master doctor? Be not these the words of Christ,
    'Accipite, manducate?' And do not these words, in the plural number,
    signify 'Take ye, eat ye;' and not 'Take thou, eat thou,' as you would
    suppose?"--Foxe's Acts and Monuments, vol. vii. p. 637., Cattley's
    edition.

    "Philpot. Master Cosins, I have told my lord already, that I will
    answer to none of these articles he hath objected against me: but if
    you will with learning answer to that which is in question between my
    lord and me, I will gladly hear and commune with you.

    Cosins. No will you? Why what is that then, that is in question
    between my lord and you?"--Id., p. 651.

    "Philpot. And as I remember, it is even the saying of St. Bernard
    [viz. The Holy Ghost is Christ's vicar on earth (vic-arius), and a
    saying that I need not to be ashamed of, neither you to be offended at;
    as my Lord of Durham and my Lord of Chichester by their learning can
    discern, and will not reckon it evil said.

    London. No will? Why, take away the first syllable, and it soundeth
    Arius."--Id. p. 658.

    "Philpot. These words of Cyprian do nothing prove your pretensed
    assertion; which is, that to the Church of Rome there could come no
    misbelief.

    Christopherson. Good lord, no doth? What can be said more
    plainly?"--Id., p. 661.

Again, at p. 663. there occur no less than three more instances and at p. 665. another.

    "Careless. No, forsooth: I do not know any such, nor have I heard of
    him that I wot of.

    Martin. No have, forsooth: and it is even he that hath written
    against thy faith."

Then Martin said:

    "Dost thou not know one Master Chamberlain?

    Careless. No forsooth; I know him not.

    Martin. No dost! and he hath written a book against thy faith
    also."--Id., vol. iii. p. 164.

    "Lichfield and Coventry. We heard of no such order.

    Lord Keeper. No did? Yes, and on the first question ye began
    willingly. How cometh it to pass that ye will not now do so?"--Id.,
    p. 690.

    "Then said Sir Thomas Moyle: 'Ah! Bland, thou art a stiff-hearted
    fellow. Thou wilt not obey the law, nor answer when thou art called.'
    'Nor will,' quoth Sir John Baker. 'Master Sheriff, take him to your
    ward.'"--Id., vol. vii. p. 295.

Is it needful to state, that the original editions have, as they ought to have, a note of interrogation
at "Baker?" I will not tax the reader's patience with more than two other examples, and they
shall be fetched from the writings of that admirable papist--the gentle, the merry-hearted More:

    "Well, quod Caius, thou wylt graunte me thys fyrste, that euery thynge
    that hath two erys is an asse.--Nay, mary mayster, wyll I not, quod the
    boy.--No wylt thou? quod Caius. Ah, wyly boy, there thou wentest
    beyond me."--The Thyrde Boke, the first chapter, fol. 84. of Sir Thomas
    More's Dialogues.

    "Why, quod he, what coulde I answere ellys, but clerely graunt hym that
    I believe that thyng for none other cause but only bycause the
    Scripture so sheweth me?--No could ye? quod I. What yf neuer
    Scripture had ben wryten in thys world, should there neuer haue bene
    eny chyrch or congregacyon of faythfull and ryght beyleuyng
    people?--That wote I nere, quod he. No do ye? quod I."--Id., fol.
    85.

In taking leave of this idiom, it would not perhaps be amiss to remark, that "ye can," in Duke
Humphey's rejoinder to the "blyson begger of St. Albonys," is not, as usually understood, "you
can?" but "yea can?"

       *       *       *       *       *

To be at point = to be at a stay or stop, i.e. settled, determined, nothing farther being to
be said or done: a very common phrase. Half a dozen examples shall suffice:

 "    .    .    .    .    .
              Macbeth, Act IV. Sc. 3. 1st Fol.

No profit to give the commentators' various guesses at the import of the phrase in the above
passage, which will be best gathered from the following instances of its use elsewhere. But,
before passing further, I beg permission to inform MR. KNIGHT that the original suggester of
"sell" for "self," in an earlier part of this play, whose name {522} he is at a loss for, was
W. S. Landor, whose footnote to vol. ii. p. 273., Moxon's edit. of his works, is as follows:

    "And here it may be permitted the editor to profit also by the
    manuscript, correcting in Shakespeare what is absolute nonsense as
    now printed:

     'Vaulting ambition that o'erleaps itself,
      And falls on the other side.'

    Other side of what? It should be its sell. Sell is saddle in
    Spenser and elsewhere, from the Latin and Italian."

A correspondent of "N. & Q."., Vol. vii., p. 404., will be delighted to find his very ingenious
discovery brought home, and corroborated by Landor's valuable manuscript: but it is an old
said saw--"Great wits jump." Now to our examples:

    "Pasquin. Saint Luke also affirmeth the same, saying flatly that he
    shall not be forgiuen. Beholde, therefore, how well they interprete the
    Scriptures.

    Marforius. I am alreadie at a poynt with them, but thou shalt doo
    me great pleasure to expounde also vnto me certayne other places, vppon
    the which they ground this deceit."--Pasquine in a Traunce, turned
    but lately out of the Italian into this tongue by W. P.: London, 1584.

    "But look, where malice reigneth in men, there reason can take no
    place: and, therefore, I see by it, that you are all at a point with
    me, that no reason or authority can persuade you to favour my name, who
    never meant evil to you, but both your commodity and profit."--Foxe's
    Acts and Monuments, vol. viii. p. 18.

