The Observatory, constructed for the great Mohammedan emperor Akbar, is also an object of interest.
It is not furnished, like a European observatory, with the usual astronomical instruments,
telescopes, rain- gauges, anemometers, and the like, the handiwork of cunning artificers in
glass and metal; but everything is of stone--solid, durable stone.  On a raised terrace stand
circular tables, semicircular and quadratic curves, all of stone, and all inscribed with mystic
signs and characters.

Benares is celebrated for its bazaars, in which are exhibited some of the rarest productions
of the East; but its principal attraction is its sanctity, and crowds of pilgrims resort to
its temples, and cleanse themselves of their sins by bathing in the fast-flowing Ganges.  To
die at Benares is regarded as a passport to heaven; and one of the most frequent sights is
the burning of a corpse on the river-bank, with ceremonies proportioned to the rank and wealth
of the deceased--the ashes being afterwards committed to the holy waters.  Benares is also
famous for its palaces.  Of these the most splendid is that which the rajah inhabits.  It was
visited by Madame Pfeiffer, who appears to have gone everywhere and seen everybody at her own
sweet will and pleasure, and she was even admitted to the rajah's presence.

A handsomely-decorated boat, she says, awaited her and her fellow-traveller at the bank of
the river.  They crossed; a palanquin was ready to receive them.  Soon they arrived at the
stately gateway which forms the entrance to the palace.  The interior proved to be a labyrinth
of irregular courts and small unsymmetrical chambers.  In one of the courts a hall, surrounded
by plain columns, served as a reception-room. This was cumbrously loaded with lamps, glass
lustres, and European furniture; on the walls hung some wretched pictures, framed and glazed.
Presently the rajah made his appearance, accompanied by his brother, and attended by a long
train of courtiers.  The two princes were gorgeously attired; they wore wide trousers, long
under and short over garments, all of satin, covered with gold embroidery.  The rajah himself,
aged thirty- five, wore short silken cuffs, glowing with gold, and trimmed with diamonds; several
large brilliants shone on his fingers, and rich gold embroidery was woven about his shoes.

The guests having taken their seats, a large silver basin was brought in, with elaborately-wrought
narghillies, and they were invited to smoke. This honour they declined.  The rajah then smoked
in solitary dignity--his pipe being changed as soon as he had taken a few whiffs.

A nautchni, or dance by nautches, was next provided for the visitors' entertainment.  There
were three musicians and two dancers.  The latter were dressed in gay gold-woven muslin robes,
with wide silk gold-broidered trousers, reaching to the ground, and quite covering their bare
feet.  One of the musicians beat a couple of small drums; the others played on four-stringed
instruments not unlike a violin.  They stood close behind the dancers, and their music was
wholly innocent of melody or harmony; but to the rhythm, which was strongly accentuated, the
dancers moved their arms, hands, and fingers in a very animated manner, and at intervals their
feet, so as to ring the numerous tiny bells that cover them.  Their attitudes were not ungraceful.
The performance lasted a quarter of an hour, after which they accompanied the dance with what
was intended for singing, but sounded like shrieking.  Meantime, sweetmeats, fruits, and sherbet
were handed round.

As a contrast to this gay scene, Madame Pfeiffer describes the performance of the wretched
fanatics called fakeers.  These men inflict upon themselves the most extraordinary tortures.
Thus: they stick an iron hook through their flesh, and allow themselves to be suspended by
it at a height of twenty or five-and-twenty feet. {105}  Or for long hours they stand upon
one foot in the burning sunshine, with their arms rigidly extended in the air.  Or they hold
heavy weights in various positions, swing round and round for hours together, and tear the
flesh from their bodies with red-hot pincers.  Madame Pfeiffer saw two of these unfortunate
victims of a diseased imagination.  One held a heavy axe over his head, in the attitude of
a workman bent on felling a tree; in this position he stood, rigid as a statue.  The other
held the point of his toe to his nose.

* * * * *

In her tour through India our traveller passed through Allahabad, situated at the junction
of the Jumna and the Ganges, and the resort of many pilgrims; Agra, where she admired, as so
many travellers have admired, the lovely Taj-Mahal, erected by the Sultan Jehan in memory of
his favourite wife,--and the Pearl Mosque, with its exquisitely delicate carving; Delhi, the
ancient capital of the Moguls, which figured so conspicuously in the history of the Sepoy rebellion;
the cave-temples of Ajunta and Ellora; and the great commercial emporium of Bombay.  They consist
of massive fragments of walls and columns, strewn on either side of the Euphrates.

[Cave temple at Ellora: page107.jpg]

On the 17th of June our heroic traveller joined a caravan which was bound for Mosul, a distance
of three hundred miles, occupying from twelve to fourteen days.  The journey is one of much
difficulty and no little danger, across a desert country of the most lifeless character.  We
shall relate a few of Madame Pfeiffer's experiences.

The mode of making butter in vogue at this village was very peculiar.  The cream was put into
a leathern bottle, and shaken about on the ground until the butter consolidated.  Shortly afterwards,
when she wished for some refreshment, nothing could be procured but lukewarm water, bread so
hard that it could not be eaten until thoroughly soaked, and a cucumber without salt or vinegar.

At a village near Kerka the caravan tarried for two days.  On the first day Madame Pfeiffer's
patience was sorely tried.  All the women of the place flocked to examine the stranger.  First
they inspected her clothes, then wanted to take the turban off her head; and, in fact, proved
themselves most troublesome intruders.

She had now only to settle with the wife of her guide, who had besieged her the whole day,
pressing as near as possible, and petitioning for some of her "things."  But for this strong
will, this indomitable resolution, Madame Pfeiffer assuredly could not have succeeded in the
enterprises she so daringly undertook.  Even for a man to have accomplished them would have
earned our praise; what shall we not say when they were conceived and carried out by a woman?

Towards evening, she says, to her great delight a caldron of mutton was set on the fire.  Madame
Pfeiffer had firmly resolved not to touch the dish, but when it was ready her longing for food
was so great, and so savoury was the smell, that she reflected that what she had already eaten
was probably not a whit cleaner; in short, for once she proved false to her resolution.  Eating,
she was filled; and the viands gave her increased strength.

* * * * *

On the 28th of June the caravan reached Erbil, the ancient Arbela, where Alexander the Great
defeated Darius and his Persian host.  Rapidly traversing the shrubless, herbless plains of
Mesopotamia, they reached at length the town of Mosul, the point from which travellers proceed
to visit the ruins of Nineveh.

These have been so carefully explored and ably described by Layard and the late George Smith,
that it is needless to quote Madame Ida Pfeiffer's superficial observations at any length.
According to Strabo, Nineveh was the greatest city in the Old World--larger even than Babylon;
the circumference of its walls was a three days' journey, and those walls were defended by
fifteen hundred towers.  Now all is covered with earth, and the ranges of hills and mounds
that stretch across the wide gray plain on the bank of the Tigris do but cover the ruins of
the vast Assyrian capital.  Mr. Layard began his excavations in 1846, and his labourers, digging
deep into the hills, soon opened up spacious and stately apartments, the marble walls of which
were embellished from top to bottom with sculptures, revealing a complete panorama of Assyrian
life!  Kings with their crowns and sceptres, gods swooping on broad pinions, warriors equipped
with their arms and shields, were there; also stirring representations of battles and hunting
expeditions, of the storming of fortresses, of triumphal processions; though, unfortunately
for artistic effect, neither proportion, perspective, nor correct drawing had been observed.
The hills are scarcely three times higher than the men; the fields reach to the clouds; the
trees are no taller than the lotus-flowers; and the heads of men and animals are all alike,
and all in profile.  Intermingled with these scenes of ancient civilization are inscriptions
of great interest, in the cuneiform or wedge-shaped character.

* * * * *

A caravan starting from Mosul for Tabreez, Madame Ida Pfeiffer determined on joining it, though
warned that it would traverse a country containing not a single European.  But, as we have
already had abundant evidence, Madame Pfeiffer knew not what fear was.  Nothing could daunt
her fixed purpose.  She had made up her mind to go to Persia; and to Persia she would go. 
One of the travellers leaped from his steed, seized his assailant by the throat, and holding
a loaded pistol to his head, indicated his determination of blowing out his brains.  The effect
of this resolute conduct was immediate; the robbers desisted from their attack, and were soon
engaged in quite an amicable conversation with those they had intended to plunder.  A narrow
stony path followed the course of the stream upward.  But this was not enough; and as the horses
began to miss their footing, the only hope of safety consisted in remaining immovable.  From
this scene of murder they gladly hastened.

* * * * *

At a town called Ravandus Madame Pfeiffer rested for some days, making observations on the
manners and customs of the Kurds.  She was not prepossessed in their favour by what she saw:
the women are idle, ignorant, and squalid; the men work as little and rob as much as they can.
Polygamy is practised; and religion is reduced to the performance of a few formalities.  The
costume of the wealthier Kurds is purely Oriental, that of the common people varies from it
a little.  Urumiyeh is a place of some celebrity, for it gave birth to Zoroaster, the preacher
of a creed of considerable moral purity, which has spread over a great part of Asia.  Entering
a more fertile country, she reached Tabreez in safety, and was once more within the influence
of law and order.  Inside, the chambers are usually lofty and spacious, with rows of windows
which seem to form complete walls of glass. Buildings of public importance there are none;
excepting the bazaar, which covers a considerable area, and is laid out with lofty, broad,
and covered thoroughfares.

The traveller turned her back upon Tabreez on the 11th of August, and in a carriage drawn by
post-horses, and attended by a single servant, set out for Natschivan.  At Arax she crossed
the frontier of Asiatic Russia, the dominions of the "White Tsar," who, in Asia as in Europe,
is ever pressing more and more closely on the "unspeakable Turk."  At Natschivan she joined
a caravan which was bound for Tiflis, and the drivers of which were Tartars.  She says of the
latter, that they do not live so frugally as the Arabs.  They also partook largely of fruits.
Its summit is cloven into two peaks, and in the space between an old tradition affirms that
Noah's ark landed at the subsidence of the Great Flood.

[Mount Ararat: page123.jpg]

In the neighbourhood of a town called Sidin, Madame Pfeiffer met with a singular adventure.
She was returning from a short walk, when, hearing the sound of approaching post-horses, she
paused for a minute to see the travellers, and noticed a Russian, seated in an open car, with
a Cossack holding a musket by his side.  Such are the incivilities to which travellers in the
Russian dominions are too constantly exposed.  It is surprising that a powerful government
should condescend to so much petty fear and mean suspicion.

[Odessa: page127.jpg]

From Tiflis our traveller proceeded across Georgia to Redutkali; whence she made her way to
Kertsch, on the shore of the Sea of Azov; and thence to Sebastopol, destined a few years later
to become the scene of an historic struggle.  She afterwards reached Odessa, one of the great
granaries of Europe, situated at the mouth of the Dniester and the Dnieper.  From Odessa to
Constantinople the distance by sea is four hundred and twenty miles.  She made but a short
stay in the Turkish capital; and then proceeded by steamer to Smyrna, passing through the maze
of the beautiful isles of Greece; and from Smyrna to Athens.  Here she trod on hallowed ground.
Every temple, every ruin, recalled to her some brave deed of old, or some illustrious name
of philosopher, warrior, statesman, poet, that the world will not willingly let die.  A rush
of stirring glorious memories swept over her mind as she gazed on the lofty summit of the Acropolis,
covered with memorials of the ancient art, and associated with the great events of Athenian
history.  The Parthenon, or Temple of Pallas; the Temple of Theseus; that of Olympian Jove;
the Tower of the Winds, or so-called Lantern of Demosthenes; and the Choragic Monument of Lysicrates,--all
these she saw, and wondered at.  But they have been so frequently described, that we may pass
them here with this slight reference.

From Corinth our traveller crossed to Corfu, and from Corfu ascended the Adriatic to Trieste.
A day or two afterwards she was received by her friends at Vienna,--having accomplished the
most extraordinary journey ever undertaken by a woman, and made the complete circuit of the
world. In the most remarkable scenes, and in the most critical positions, she had preserved
a composure, a calmness of courage, and a simplicity of conduct, that must always command our
admiration.

CHAPTER III.--NORTHWARD.

In giving to the world a narrative of her journey to Iceland, and her wanderings through Norway
and Sweden, Madame Pfeiffer anticipated certain objections that would be advanced by the over-refined.
"Another journey !" she supposed them to exclaim; "and that to regions far more likely to repel
than attract the general traveller!  What object could this woman have had in visiting them,
but a desire to excite our astonishment and raise our curiosity?  We might have been induced
to pardon her pilgrimage to the Holy Land, though it was sufficiently hazardous for a solitary
woman, because it was prompted, perhaps, by her religious feelings,--and incredible things,
as we all know, are frequently accomplished under such an impulse.  But, for the present expedition,
what reasonable motive can possibly be suggested?"

Madame Pfeiffer remarks that in all this a great injustice is, or would be, done to her; that
she was a plain, inoffensive creature, and by no means desirous of drawing upon herself the
observation of the crowd.  As a matter of fact, she was but following the bent of her natural
disposition.  From her earliest childhood she had yearned to go forth into the wide world.
She could never meet a travelling-carriage without stopping to watch it, and envying the postilion
who drove it or the persons it conveyed.  When she was ten or twelve years old, no reading
had such a charm for her as books of voyages and travels; and then she began to repine at the
happiness of every great navigator or discoverer, whose boldness revealed to him the secrets
of lands and seas before unknown.

She travelled much with her parents, and afterwards with her husband, and thus her natural
bias was encouraged.  It was not until her two sons were of age to be educated that she remained
stationary--on their account.  As the business concerns of her husband required his presence
alternately in Vienna and in Lemberg, he intrusted to his wife the responsible duty of superintending
their education--feeling assured that, with her perseverance and affection, she could supply
the place of both parents.

When this duty was discharged, and the education of her sons completed, the dreams and fancies
of her youth once more revived within her.  She thought of the manners and customs of foreign
lands, of remote islands girdled by the "melancholy main," and dwelt so long on the great joy
of treading "the blessed acres" trodden by the Saviour's feet, that at last she resolved on
a pilgrimage thither.  She made the journey to Palestine. She visited Jerusalem, and other
hallowed scenes, and she returned in safety.  She came, therefore, to the conclusion that she
was not presumptuously tempting the providence of God, or laying herself open to the charge
of wishing to excite the admiration of her contemporaries, if she followed her inward impulse,
and once more adventured forth to see the world.  She knew that travel could not but broaden
her views, elevate her thoughts, and inspire her with new sympathies.  Iceland, the next object
of her desires, was a country where she hoped to see Nature under an entirely novel and peculiar
aspect.  "I feel," she says, "so wonderfully happy, and draw so close to my Maker, while gazing
upon such scenes, that no difficulties or fatigues can deter me from seeking so great a reward."

* * * * *

It was in the year 1845 that Madame Pfeiffer began her northward journey. She left Vienna on
the 10th of April, and by way of Prague, Dresden, and Altona, proceeded to Kiel.  Thence the
steamer carried her to Copenhagen, a city of which she speaks in favourable terms.  She notices
its numerous splendid palaces; its large and regular squares; its broad and handsome promenades.
At the Museum of Art she was interested by the chair which Tycho Brahe, the astronomer, formerly
used; and at the Thorvaldsen Museum, the colossal lion executed by the great Danish sculptor.
Having seen all that was to be seen, she took ship for Iceland, passing Helsingborg on the
Swedish coast, and Elsinore on the Danish, the latter associated with Shakespeare's "Hamlet;"
and, through the Sound and the Cattegat, entering upon the restless waters of the North Sea.
Iceland came in sight on the seventh day of a boisterous voyage, which had tried our traveller
somewhat severely; and at the close of the eleventh day she reached Havenfiord, an excellent
harbour, two miles from Reikiavik, the capital of Iceland.

Her first impressions of the Icelandic coast, she says, were very different from the descriptions
she had read in books.  She had conceived of a barren desolate waste, shrubless and treeless;
and she saw grassy hillocks, leafy copses, and even, as she thought, patches of dwarfish woods.
But as she drew nearer, and could distinguish the different objects more plainly, the hillocks
were transformed into human habitations, with small doors and windows; and the groups of trees
proved to be huge lava masses, from ten to fifteen feet in height, entirely overgrown with
verdure and moss.  Everything was new, was surprising; and it was with pleasurable sensations
of excitement and curiosity that Madame Pfeiffer landed on the shores of Ultima Thule.

[Reikiavik: page135.jpg]

* * * * *

At Reikiavik she found the population inhabiting two very different classes of habitations.
The wooden houses of the well-to-do are of a single story, she says, with five or six windows
in front.  A low flight of steps conducts to an entrance in the centre of the building; and
this entrance opens into a vestibule, where two doors communicate with the rooms on the right
and left respectively.  In the rear is the kitchen, and beyond the courtyard.  Such a house
contains four or five rooms on the ground-floor, and a few small chambers under the roof. 
The domestic or household arrangements are entirely European.  The furniture, much of which
is mahogany, comes from Copenhagen, which also supplies the mirrors and cast-iron stoves. 
Handsome rugs are spread in front of the sofas; neat curtains drop before the windows; English
engravings ornament the whitewashed walls; and china, silver, and cut-glass, and the like,
are displayed upon the cabinets or corner-tables.

But the poor live in huts which are decidedly much more Icelandic.  They are small and low;
built of lava blocks, filled in with earth; and as the whole is covered with turf, they might
almost be mistaken for natural elevations of the ground, if the wooden chimneys, and low doors,
and almost imperceptible windows, did not betray that they were tenanted by human beings. 
A dark, narrow passage, not more than four feet high, leads on one hand to the living-room,
on the other to the store-room, where the provisions are kept, and where, in winter, the cows
and sheep are stabled.  The fireplace is generally at the end of this passage, which is purposely
built low to keep out the cold.  Neither the walls nor floors of these huts are boarded; the
dwelling-rooms are scarcely large enough for people to sleep in or turn round in; and the whole
furniture consists of the bedsteads (very poorly supplied with bedding), a small table, and
a few chests--the latter, as well as the beds, being used for seats.  To poles fastened in
the walls are suspended clothes, shoes, stockings, and other articles; and in each hut is generally
found a tiny book-shelf supporting a few volumes.  No stoves are needed in these rooms, which
are sufficiently warmed by the presence of their numerous inmates.

Speaking of the better classes of the inhabitants of the Icelandic capital, our traveller says:
"Nothing struck me so much as the great dignity of carriage at which the Icelandic ladies aim,
and which is so apt to degenerate into stiffness when it is not perfectly natural, or has not
become a second nature by habit.  They incline their head very coolly when you meet them, with
less civility than we should use towards an inferior or a stranger.  The lady of the house
never accompanies her guests beyond the door of the room, after a call; if the husband is present,
he goes a little further; but when this is not the case, you are often at a loss which way
to turn, as there is no servant on the spot to open the street door for you, unless it may
happen to be in the house of the Stiftsamtmann, the first dignitary of the island."

The church at Reikiavik is capable of accommodating about one hundred and fifty persons; it
is built of stone, with a wooden roof, under which is kept a library of several thousand volumes.
It possesses an artistic treasure of no ordinary value in a font by Thorvaldsen, whose parents
were natives of Iceland, though he himself was born in Denmark.  Captain Burton describes it
as the ancient classical altar, with basso-relievos on all four sides--subjects of course evangelical;
on the top an alto- relievo of symbolical flowers, roses, and passiflorae is cut to support
the normal "Dobefal," or baptismal basin.  In the sacristy are preserved some handsome priestly
robes--especially the velvet vestment sent by Pope Julius II. to the last Roman Catholic bishop
in the early part of the sixteenth century, and still worn by the chief Protestant dignitary
at ordinations.

The climate at Reikiavik would be considered severe by an Englishman.  The thermometer sometimes
sinks as low as 13 degrees below zero, and the sea is covered with ice for several feet from
the shore.  The storms and snow- drifts are of the most terrible character, and at times even
the boldest Icelander dares not cross his threshold.  Daylight does not last more than four
or five hours; but the long night is illuminated by the splendid coruscations of the aurora,
filling the firmament with many-coloured flame.  From the middle until the end of June, however,
there is no night.  The sun sinks for a short time below the hills, but twilight blends with
the dawn, and before the last rays of evening have faded from the sky the morning light streams
forth with renewed brilliancy.

* * * * *

Then, as to the people, Madame Pfeiffer speaks of them as of medium height and strength.  Their
hair is light, and frequently has a reddish tint; their eyes are blue.  The women are more
prepossessing in appearance than the men; and pleasing faces are not uncommon among the young
girls.  They wear long skirts of coarse black woollen stuff, with spencers, and coloured aprons.
They cover their heads with a man's cap of the same material as their petticoats, ending in
a drooping point, to which hangs a woollen or silken tassel, falling as low as the shoulders.
This simple head-dress is not inelegant.  All the women have an abundance of hair hanging picturesquely
about their face and neck; they wear it loose and short, and it is sometimes curled.

The men appear to dress very much like the German peasants.  They wear pantaloons, jackets,
and vests of dark cloth, with a felt hat or fur cap, and the feet wrapped in pieces of skin,
either seal, sheep, or calf.

* * * * *

Here, as a corrective, and for the sake of comparison, let us refer to Captain Burton's description.
The men dress, he says, like sailors, in breeches, jackets serving as coats, and vests of good
broadcloth, with four to six rows of buttons, always metal, either copper or silver.  The fishermen
wear overcoats, coarse smooth waistcoats, large paletots, made waterproof by grease or fish-liver
oil; leather overalls, stockings, and native shoes.  The women attire themselves in jackets
and gowns, petticoats and aprons of woollen frieze; over which is thrown a "hempa," or wide
black robe, like a Jesuit frock, trimmed with velvet binding.  The wealthy add silver ornaments
down the length of the dress, and braid the other articles with silk ribbons, galloon, or velvets
of various colours. The ruff forms a stiff collar, from three to four inches broad, of very
fine stuff, embroidered with gold or silver.  The conical head-dress, resembling a fool's-cap
or sugar-loaf, measures two or three feet high, and is kept in its place by a coarse cloth,
and covered with a finer kerchief.  The soleless shoes of ox-hide or sheepskin, made by the
women out of a single piece, are strapped to the instep.

* * * * *

Having made herself generally acquainted with the Icelanders and their mode of living, Madame
Pfeiffer began to visit the most romantic and interesting spots in the island accessible to
an adventurous woman.  At first she confined herself to the neighbourhood of Reikiavik.  She
journeyed, for instance, to the island of Vidoe, the cliffs of which are frequented by the
eider-duck.  Its tameness while brooding is very remarkable.  "I had always looked," she says,
"on the wonderful stories I had heard on this subject as fabulous, and should do still had
I not been an eye-witness to the fact.  I approached and laid my hands on the birds while they
were sitting; yes, I could even caress them without their attempting to move from their nests;
or, if they left them for a moment, it was only to walk off for a few steps, and remain quietly
waiting till I withdrew, when they immediately returned to their station.  Those whose young
were already hatched, however, would beat their wings with violence, and snap at me with their
bills when I came near them, rather allowing themselves to be seized than to desert their broods.
In size they resemble our common duck; their eggs are of a greenish-gray, rather larger than
hens' eggs, and of an excellent flavour.  Each bird lays about eleven eggs.  The finest down
is that with which they line their nests at first; it is of a dark gray, and is regularly carried
off by the islanders with the first eggs.  The poor bird then robs itself of a second portion
of its down, and lays a few more eggs, which are also seized; and it is not till the nest has
been felted for the third time that the ducks are left unmolested to bring up their brood.
The down of the second, and particularly that of the third hatching, is much lighter than the
first, and of an inferior quality."

The salmon-fishery at the Larsalf next engaged our traveller's attention. It is conducted after
a primitively simple fashion.  When the fish at spawning-time seek the quiet waters of the
inland stream, their way back to the sea is blocked up by an embankment of loose stones, about
three feet high.  In front of this wall is extended a net; and several similar barriers are
erected at intervals of eighty to a hundred paces, to prevent the fish which have slipped over
one of them from finally accomplishing their escape.  A day is appointed for a grand battue.
The water is then let off as much as possible; and the ensnared fish, feeling it grow shallower,
dart hither and thither in frantic confusion, and eventually gather together in such a mass
that the fishermen have only to thrust in their hands and seize their prey.

Yet some degree of skill is necessary, for, as everybody knows, the salmon is full of vivacity,
and both strong and swift.  So the fisher takes his victim dexterously by head and tail, and
throws it ashore immediately.  It is caught up by persons who are specially appointed to this
duty, and flung to a still greater distance from the stream.  Were not this done, and done
quickly, many a fine fellow would escape.  It is strange to see the fish turn round in the
hands of their captors, and leap into the air, so that if the fishermen were not provided with
woollen mittens, they could not keep their hold of the slippery creatures at all.  In these
wholesale razzias, from five hundred to a thousand fish are generally taken at a time, each
one weighing from five to fifteen pounds.

[Salmon-fishing in Iceland: page145.jpg]

* * * * *

Iceland may, with little exaggeration, be described as nothing more than a stratum of snow
and ice overlying a mass of fire and vapour and boiling water.  Nowhere else do we see the
two elements of frost and fire in such immediate contiguity.  The icy plains are furrowed by
lower currents, and in the midst of wastes of snow rise the seething ebullitions of hot springs.
Several of the snow-shrouded mountains of Iceland are volcanic. In the neighbourhood of Kriservick
Madame Pfeiffer saw a long, wide valley, traversed by a current of lava, half a mile in length;
a current consisting not merely of isolated blocks and stones, but of large masses of porous
rock, ten or twelve feet high, frequently broken up by fissures a foot wide.

Six miles further, and our traveller entered another valley, where, from the sulphur-springs
and hills, rose numerous columns of smoke.  Ascending the neighbouring hills, she saw a truly
remarkable scene: basins filled with bubbling waters, and vaporous shafts leaping up from the
fissures in the hills and plains.  By keeping to windward, she was able to approach very near
these phenomenal objects; the ground was lukewarm in a few places, and she could hold her hand
for several minutes at a time over the cracks whence the vapour escaped.  No water was visible.
The roar and hiss of the steam, combined with the violence of the wind, made a noise so deafening
that she was glad to quit the scene, and feel a safer soil beneath her feet.  It seemed to
her excited fancy as if the entire mountain were converted into a boiling caldron.

Descending into the plain, she found there much to interest her.  Here a basin was filled with
boiling mud; there, from another basin, burst forth a column of steam with fearful violence.
Several hot springs bubbled and bubbled around.  "These spots," says our traveller, "were far
more dangerous than any on the hills; in spite of the utmost caution, we often sank in above
our ankles, and drew back our feet in dread, covered with the damp exhalations, which, with
steam or boiling water, also escaped from the opening.  I allowed my guide to feel his way
in front of me with a stick; but, notwithstanding his precaution, he went through in one place
half-way to his knee--though he was so used to the danger that he treated it very lightly,
and stopped quite phlegmatically at the next spring to cleanse himself from the mud.  Being
also covered with it to the ankles, I followed his example."

* * * * *

We must now accompany our traveller on some longer excursions.

And first, to Thingvalla, the place where, of old, the Althing or island- parliament was annually
held.  One side of the great valley of council is bounded by the sea, the other by a fine range
of peaks, always more or less covered with snow.  Through the pass of the Almannagja we descend
upon the Thingvallavatn lake, an expanse of placid blue, about thirty miles in circuit.  While
our attention is rivetted on the lake and the dark brown hills which encircle it, a chasm suddenly,
and as if by enchantment, opens at our feet, separating us from the valleys beyond.  It varies
from thirty to forty feet in width, is several hundred feet in depth, and four miles in length.

"We were compelled," says Madame Pfeiffer, "to descend its steep and dangerous sides by a narrow
path leading over fragments of lava.  My uneasiness increased as we went down, and could see
the colossal masses, in the shape of pillars or columns tottering loosely on the brink of the
precipice above our heads, threatening death and desolation at any moment.  Mute and anxious,
we crept along in breathless haste, scarcely venturing to raise our eyes, much less to give
vent to the least expression of alarm, for fear of starting the avalanche of stone, of the
impetuous force of which we could form some idea by the shattered rocks around us.  The echo
is very remarkable, and gives back the faintest whisper with perfect distinctness."

* * * * *

Every traveller to Iceland feels bound to visit its Geysirs, and Madame Pfeiffer did as others
did.  From Thingvalla she rode for some distance along the side of the lakes, and then struck
through a rocky pass of a very difficult character, into a series of valleys of widely different
aspect.  At last she came to a stream which flowed over a bed of lava, and between banks of
lava, with great rapidity and a rushing, roaring sound.  At one point the river-bed was cleft
through its centre, to the depth of eighteen or twenty feet, by a chasm from fifteen to eighteen
feet wide, into which the waters pour with considerable violence.  A bridge in the middle of
the river spans this rift, and the stranger who reaches the banks feels unable to account for
its appearance among the cloud of spray which entirely conceals the chasm in the bed of the stream.

Into her description of the passage of the river it is to be feared that Madame Pfeiffer introduces
a little exaggeration.  The waters roar, she says, with the utmost violence, and dashing wildly
into the cavity, they form falls on both sides of it, or shiver themselves to spray against
the projecting cliffs; at the extremity of the chasm, which is not far from the bridge, the
stream is precipitated in its whole breadth over rocks from thirty to forty feet in height.
"Our horses began to tremble, and struggled to escape when we drew near the most furious part
of the torrent, where the noise was really deafening; and it was not without the greatest difficulty
we succeeded in making them obey the reins, and bear us through the foaming waves by which
the bridge was washed."  Either the scene has greatly altered since Madame Pfeiffer's visit,
or her imagination has considerably over-coloured its principal features.  That is, if we accept
the accounts of recent travellers, and especially that of Captain Burton, who has laboured
so successfully to reduce the romance of Icelandic travel to plain matter of fact.

[Great Geysir: page153.jpg]

The Geysirs lie within a comparatively limited area, and consist of various specimens, differing
considerably in magnitude.  The basin of the Great Geysir lies on a gentle elevation, about
ten feet above the plain; it measures about one hundred and fifty feet in diameter, while that
of the seething caldron is ten feet.  Both caldron and basin, on the occasion of Madame Pfeiffer's
visit, were full to the brim with crystal- clear water in a state of slight ebullition.  At
irregular intervals a column of water is shot perpendicularly upwards from the centre of the
caldron, the explosion being always preceded by a low rumbling; but she was not so fortunate
as to witness one of these eruptions.  Lord Dufferin, however, after three days' watch, was
rewarded for his patience.  The usual underground thunder having been heard, he and his friends
rushed to the spot.  A violent agitation was convulsing the centre of the pool.

About one hundred and forty yards distant is the Strokkr, or "churn," with a basin about seven
feet wide in its outer, and eighteen feet in its inner diameter.  A funnel or inverted cone
in shape, whereas the Great Geysir is a mound and a cylinder, it gives the popular idea of
a crater. Its surface is "an ugly area of spluttering and ever boiling water."  It frequently
"erupts," and throws a spout into the air, sometimes as high as forty or fifty feet, the outbursts
lasting from ten to thirty minutes. Madame Pfeiffer had not the luck to see it in its grandest
moods; the highest eruption she saw did not rise above thirty feet, nor last more than fifteen
minutes.  An eruption can be produced by throwing into the caldron a sufficient quantity of
turf or stones.

Two remarkable springs lie directly above the Geysirs, in openings separated by a barrier of
rock--which, however, rise nowhere above the level of the ground.  Their waters boil very gently,
with an equable and almost rhythmic flow.  The charm of these springs lies in their wonderful
transparency and clearness.  All the prominent points and corners, the varied outlines of the
cavities, and the different recesses, can be distinguished far within the depths, until the
eye is lost in the darkness of the abyss; and the luminous effects upon the rocks lend an additional
beauty to the scene, which has all the magic of the poet's fairy-land.  It is illumined by
a radiance of a soft pale blue and green, which reaches only a few inches from the rocky barrier,
leaving the waters beyond in colourless transparency.  The light, to all appearance, seems
reflected from the rock, but is really owing to atmospheric causes.

* * * * *

