Mamma swallowed as if a dry artichoke was in her throat, as she said, slowly, "Why, colonel,
you know you had not worn that coat for months, and as you have another one, and a roquelaure,
and the coat was full of moth-holes, I exchanged it with the peddler for cut glass and plate."

"Cut devils!" said papa, who liked to soften an oath by combinations; "it was worth twenty
dollars--yes, more, because I felt at home in it. I hate new coats as I do--"

"But, colonel," interrupted mamma, "you did not see the scarlet tray, and the--"

"Scarlet nonsense," shouted papa; "I believe, if they could, women would sell their husbands
to those rascally peddlers!"

Beauty and the hounds were now pronounced ready. I followed papa to the piazza, and heard his
wrath rolling off as he cantered away.

HERE'S A MERRY BOOK BY A MERRY MAN

THE SUNNY SIDE OF THE STREET

By MARSHALL P. WILDER

Author of "Smiling 'Round the World".

"His book--like American conversation--is made up of anecdotes. He talks intimately of Richard
Croker, President McKinley, President Harrison, Joseph Jefferson, Senator Depew, Henry Watterson,
Gen. Horace Porter, Augustin Daly, Henry Irving, Buffalo Bill, King Edward VII., Mrs. Langtry,
and a host of other personages, large and small, and medium-sized. He tells many good stories.
We can recommend his book as cheerful reading."--New York Times.

     "It is replete with anecdotes and observations relating to the
     humorous side of life, intimate bits of interesting personalia, and
     bright and witty chat concerning things in general."--Pittsburg
     Leader.

     "Reading the book is like listening to a humorous lecture by
     Marshall P. Wilder, full of wit and brightness, and it will cheer
     and comfort the most morose man or woman just to read
     it."--Baltimore American.

     12mo, Cloth. Humorous Pen-and-Ink Sketches by Bart Haley.
     Frontispiece Portrait of Mr. Wilder. Price, $1.20.

FUNK & WAGNALLS COMPANY, Publishers NEW YORK AND LONDON

ANOTHER ROARING FUN BOOK!

SMILING 'ROUND THE WORLD

By MARSHALL P. WILDER

Author of "The Sunny Side of the Street"

"Laugh and the world laughs with you" can be truly said of Marshall P. Wilder, the captivating
entertainer of Presidents, Kings, Princes, and the great public. As the Hon. Chauncey M. Depew
says, "His mirth is contagious," and as the Right Hon. Henry Labouchere remarked, "He makes
melancholy fly apace." You'll find laughs bubbling all through this new book.

SOME OPINIONS FROM THE NEWSPAPERS

     "There are many cheerful, amusing incidents of travel. It is a very
     readable and entertaining book."--Democrat and Chronicle,
     Rochester, N.Y.

     "A marvelous lot of 'sunny stuff' is to be found in Mr. Wilder's
     latest book. He merrily prattles of a thousand different things and
     of as many different people."--Record, Philadelphia, Pa.

     "In addition to the keen enjoyment which the reader will elicit
     from the undercurrent of humor running through the volume, the book
     gives a vivid picture of life as it is lived in distant
     lands."--Journal, Boston, Mass.

     Decorated Cloth Cover. 12mo. Profusely Illustrated.

     Price, $1.50

FUNK & WAGNALLS COMPANY, Publishers NEW YORK AND LONDON