    When I look back at the processes of history, when I look back at the
    genesis of America, I see this written over every page, that the
    nations are renewed from the bottom, not from the top; that the genius
    which springs up from the ranks of unknown men is the genius which
    renews the youth and the energy of the people; and in every age of the
    world, where you stop the courses of the blood from the roots, you
    injure the great, useful structure to the extent that atrophy, death,
    and decay are sure to ensue. This is the reason that an hereditary
    monarchy does not work; that is the reason that an hereditary
    aristocracy does not work; that is the reason that everything of that
    sort is full of corruption and ready to decay.

    So I say that our challenge of to-day is to include in the partnership
    all those great bodies of unnamed men who are going to produce our
    future leaders and renew the future energies of America. And as I
    confess that, as I confess my belief in the common man, I know what I
    am saying. The man who is swimming against the stream knows the
    strength of it. The man who is in the melee knows what blows are being
    struck and what blood is being drawn. The man who is on the make is a
    judge of what is happening in America, not the man who has made; not
    the man who has emerged from the flood, not the man who is standing on
    the bank, looking on, but the man who is struggling for his life and
    for the lives of those who are dearer to him than himself. That is the
    man whose judgment will tell you what is going on in America, and that
    is the man by whose judgment I for one wish to be guided--so that as
    the tasks multiply and the days come when all will seem confusion and
    dismay, we may lift up our eyes to the hills out of these dark valleys
    where the crags of special privilege overshadow and darken our path,
    to where the sun gleams through the great passage in the broken
    cliffs, the sun of God, the sun meant to regenerate men, the sun meant
    to liberate them from their passion and despair and to lift us to
    those uplands which are the promised land of every man who desires
    liberty and achievement.

Speaking for the necessity of corporate reform in business, he said:

    I am not objecting to the size of these corporations. Nothing is big
    enough to scare me. What I am objecting to is that the Government
    should give them exceptional advantages, which enables them to succeed
    and does not put them on the same footing as other people. I think
    those great touring cars, for example, which are labelled "Seeing New
    York," are too big for the streets. You have almost to walk around the
    block to get away from them, and size has a great deal to do with the
    trouble if you are trying to get out of the way. But I have no
    objection on that account to the ordinary automobile properly handled
    by a man of conscience who is also a gentleman. I have no objection to
    the size, power, and beauty of an automobile. I am interested,
    however, in the size and conscience of the men who handle them, and
    what I object to is that some corporation men are taking "joy-rides"
    in their corporations.

Time and time again men were reminded of the great speeches of Lincoln and thought they saw
his fine spirit breathing through sentences like these:

    Gentlemen, we are not working for to-day, we are not working for our
    own interest, we are all going to pass away. But think of what is
    involved. Here are the tradition, and the fame, and the prosperity,
    and the purity, and the peace of a great nation involved. For the time
    being we are that nation, but the generations that are behind us are
    pointing us forward to the path and saying:

    "Remember the great traditions of the American people," and all those
    unborn children that will constitute the generations that are ahead
    will look back to us, either at those who serve them or at those who
    betray them. Will any man in such circumstances think it worthy to
    stand and not try to do what is possible in so great a cause, to save
    a country, to purify a polity, to set up vast reforms which will
    increase the happiness of mankind? God forbid that I should either be
    daunted or turned away from a great task like this.

Speaking of the candidate who opposed him:

    I have been informed that he has the best of me in looks. Now, it is
    not always the useful horse that is most beautiful. If I had a big
    load to be drawn some distance I should select one of those big,
    shaggy kinds of horses, not much for beauty but strong of pull.

On one occasion, when he had been talking about his and Mr. Lewis's different conceptions of
the "constitutional governor", and telling his audience how he, if elected, would interpret
the election as a mandate from the people to assist in and direct legislation in the interests
of the people of New Jersey at large, he paused an instant and then in those incisive tones
and with that compression of the lips which marked his more bellicose words, he said curtly:
"If you don't want that kind of a governor, don't elect me."

Excerpts from the speeches cannot do justice to this remarkable campaign, which Woodrow Wilson
himself, after he had been twice elected President of the United States, considered the most
satisfying of his political campaigns, because the most systematic and basic. As Presidential
candidate he had to cover a wide territory and touch only the high spots in the national issues,
but in his gubernatorial campaign he spoke in every county of the state and in some counties
several times, and his speeches grew out of each other and were connected with each other in
a way that made them a popular treatise on self-government. He used no technical jargon and
none of the stereotyped bombast of the usual political campaign. He had a theme which he wanted
to expound to the people of New Jersey, which theme was the nature and character of free government,
how it had been lost in New Jersey through the complicated involvements of invisible government,
manipulated from behind the scenes by adroit representatives of the corporate interest working
in conjunction with the old political machines; how under this clever manipulation legislators
had ceased to represent the electorate and were, as he called them, only "errand boys" to do
the bidding of the real rulers of New Jersey, many of whom were not even residents of the state,
and how free government could be restored to New Jersey through responsible leadership. He
was making an application to practical politics of the fundamental principles of responsible
government which he had analyzed in his earlier writings, including the book on "Congressional
Government." Beneath the concrete campaign issues in New Jersey he saw the fundamental principles
of Magna Charta and the Bill of Rights and the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution
of the United States. His trained habit of thinking through concrete facts to basic principles
was serving him well in this campaign; his trained habit of clear exposition in the Princeton
lecture hall was serving him well. People heard from him political speaking of a new kind;
full of weighty instruction and yet so simply phrased and so aptly illustrated that the simplest
minded could follow the train of reasoning; profound in political philosophy and yet at every
step humanized by one who believed government the most human of things because concerned with
the happiness and welfare of individuals; sometimes he spoke in parables, homely anecdotes
so applied that all could understand; sometimes he was caustic when he commented on the excessive
zeal of corporations for strict constitutionalism, meaning thereby only such legislation and
judicial interpretations as would defend their property rights--how they had secured those
rights being a question not discussed by these gentlemen; sometimes, though not frequently,
there would be purple patches of eloquence, particularly when descanting on the long struggle
of the inarticulate masses for political representation.

One of the surprises of the campaign to those who had known him as an orator of classic eloquence
was the comparative infrequency of rhetorical periods. It was as if he were now too deeply
engaged with actualities to chisel and polish his sentences. Of the many anecdotes which he
told during the campaign one of his favourites was of the Irishman digging a cellar, who when
asked what he was doing said: "I'm letting the darkness out." Woodrow Wilson told the people
of New Jersey that he was "letting the darkness out" of the New Jersey political situation.
"Pitiless publicity" was one of his many phrases coined in the campaign which quickly found
currency, not only in New Jersey but throughout the country, for presently the United States
at large began to realize that what was going on in New Jersey was symbolical of the situation
throughout the country, a tremendous struggle to restore popular government to the people.
Since the founders of the Republic expounded free institutions to the first electorates of
this country there had probably been no political campaign which went so directly to the roots
of free representative government and how to get it as that campaign which Woodrow Wilson conducted
in New Jersey in the autumn of 1910.

CHAPTER VII

THE CRISIS OF THE CAMPAIGN

The crisis of the campaign came when George L. Record, Progressive leader in the ranks of the
Republican party in Hudson County, uttered a ringing challenge to the Democratic candidate
to debate the issues of the campaign with him. The challenge contained an alternative proposition
that the Democratic candidate either meet Mr. Record in joint debate in various parts of the
state or that he answer certain questions with reference to the control of the Democratic party
by what Mr. Record called the "Old Guard." Mr. Record's letter and challenge created a profound
sensation throughout the state and brought hope and comfort to the ranks of the Republican party.

Record emphasized the Old Guard's control of the convention at which Wilson was nominated,
basing most of his questions upon this character of political control, and openly challenging
Wilson, the Democratic candidate, to say whether the elements that were dominant at Trenton
in the Convention would be permitted by him, in case of his election, to influence his action
as governor.

For several days after the letter containing the challenge reached the Democratic candidate,
there was a great deal of apprehension in the ranks of the Democratic party lest the candidate
should decide to ignore the Record challenge, thus giving aid and comfort to the enemies of
progressivism in the state, or, on the other hand, that he would accept it and thus give Mr.
Record, who was a most resourceful public speaker and a leading exponent of liberalism in the
state, a chance to outwit him in public debate. The latter practically demanded of the Democratic
candidate that he repudiate not only the Old Guard but the active management of his campaign
which had been taken over by James R. Nugent, one of the leaders of Essex County, who daily
accompanied the Democratic candidate on his tour of the state. For a time it looked as if Doctor
Wilson would ignore entirely the Record challenge. It was plainly evident from all sides that
what appeared to be his reluctance to take a stand in the matter had turned support away at
a time when the sentiment of the state was rapidly flowing his way.

I accompanied the candidate on an automobile tour of the state and in our little talks I sought
to find out, in a diplomatic way, just how his mind was running on the Record challenge and
how he intended to meet it. In the automobile with us on this tour was James R. Nugent, then
the state chairman of the Democratic Committee. I ascertained that even he knew nothing about
the Princetonian's attitude toward the Record challenge. A significant remark which the candidate
dropped "between meetings" gave me the first intimation that the Democratic candidate was,
to use a baseball expression, "on to the Record curve" and that he would answer him in so emphatic
and overwhelming a fashion that the Republican campaign would never entirely recover from the blow.

One day while we were seated in the tonneau of the automobile discussing the Record challenge,
Mr. Wilson pointed his finger at Jim Nugent and said, very significantly: "I intend to reply
to Mr. Record, but I am sure that it will hurt the feelings of this fine fellow."

A few days later, without consulting any one, Mr. Wilson replied to Record's challenge. It
was a definite, clean-cut, unequivocal repudiation of the Old Guard's control of the Democratic
party, and a convincing answer to every question that had been put to him. It rang true. Old-line
Republicans, after reading this conclusive reply, shook their heads and said, regretfully,
"Damn Record; the campaign's over."

It was plainly evident that the crisis of the campaign had been safely passed and that Mr.
Wilson was on his way to the governorship.

In his challenge Mr. Record had addressed to Doctor Wilson nineteen questions. Mr. Wilson's
reply was in part as follows:

    You wish to know what my relations would be with the Democrats whose
    power and influence you fear should I be elected governor,
    particularly in such important matters as appointments and the signing
    of bills, and I am very glad to tell you. If elected I shall not
    either in the matter of appointments to office, or assent to
    legislation, or in shaping any part of the policy of my
    administration, submit to the dictation of any person, or persons,
    "special interests," or organizations. I will always welcome advice
    and suggestions from any citizens, whether boss, leader, organization
    man, or plain citizen, and I shall confidently seek the advice of
    influential and disinterested men representative of the communities
    and disconnected from political organizations entirely; but all
    suggestions and all advice will be considered on its merits and no
    additional weight will be given to any man's advice because of his
    exercising, or supposing that he exercises, some sort of political
    influence or control. I should deem myself for ever disgraced should
    I, in even the slightest degree, cooeperate in any such system. I
    regard myself as pledged to the regeneration of the Democratic party.

Mr. Record also inquired: "Do you admit that the boss system exists as I have described it?"
"If so, how do you propose to abolish it?"

Mr. Wilson said:

    Of course I admit it. Its existence is notorious. I have made it my
    business for many years to observe and understand that system, and I
    hate it as thoroughly as I understand it. You are quite right in
    saying that the system is bipartisan; that it constitutes "the most
    dangerous condition in the public life of our state and nation to-
    day"; and that it has virtually, for the time being, "destroyed
    representative government and in its place set up a government of
    privilege." I would propose to abolish it by the reforms suggested in
    the Democratic platform, by the election to office of men who will
    refuse to submit to it, and who will lend all their energies to break
    it up, and by pitiless publicity.

Still hoping to corner the Governor, Mr. Record named the bosses:

    In referring to the Board of Guardians, do you mean such Republican
    leaders as Baird, Murphy, Kean, and Stokes? Wherein do the relations
    to the special interests of such leaders differ from the relation to
    the same interests of such Democratic leaders as Smith, Nugent, and
    Davis?

Mr. Wilson, answering this, said:

    I refer to the men you name. They [meaning Baird, Murphy, Kean,
    Stokes] differ from the others in this, that they are in control of
    the government of the state while the others are not, and cannot be if
    the present Democratic ticket is elected.

In reply to Mr. Record's question: "Will you join me in denouncing the Democratic 'overlords'
as parties to a political boss system?" Doctor Wilson replied: "Certainly I will join you in
denouncing them--or any one of either party who attempts any outrages against the Government
and public morality."

At this time I was in close touch with the managers of the Wilson campaign, including Smith,
Nugent, and Davis. While they admired the fine strategy that lay back of the Democratic candidate's
reply to Mr. Record, they looked upon it as a mere gesture upon the part of Mr. Wilson and
scorned to believe that his reply to Mr. Record constituted a challenge to their leadership.
They did not show any evidences of dismay or chagrin at the courageous attitude taken by Doctor
Wilson. They simply smiled and shrugged their shoulders and said: "This is a great campaign play."

CHAPTER VIII

THE END OF THE CAMPAIGN

The final meeting of the gubernatorial campaign was held in a large auditorium in Newark, New
Jersey, where the last appeal was made by the Democratic candidate. It was a meeting filled
with emotionalism such as I had never seen in a campaign before. The Democratic candidate,
Woodrow Wilson, had covered every section of the state and it was easy for even the casual
observer to note the rising tide in his favour. The campaign had, indeed, become a crusade;
his eloquence and sledge-hammer blows at the opposition having cut our party lines asunder.
I was present at the final meeting and took my place in the wings of the theatre or auditorium,
alongside of Senator Smith, the Democratic chieftain who a few weeks before had, in a masterful
fashion, manipulated the workings of the Convention at Trenton in such a way as to make the
Doctor's nomination possible. Mr. Wilson's speech on this occasion was a profession of faith
in the people, in the plain people, those "whose names never emerged into the headlines of
newspapers." When he said in a delightful sort of banter to his audience, "I want you to take
a sportsman's chance on me," there went up a shout of approval which could be heard as far
as the hills of old Bergen.

The peroration of his final speech, spoken in a tone of voice that seemed not only to reach
every ear but, in fact, to touch every heart, was as follows:

    We have begun a fight that, it may be, will take many a generation to
    complete, the fight against privilege; but you know that men are not
    put into this world to go the path of ease. They are put into this
    world to go the path of pain and struggle. No man would wish to sit
    idly by and lose the opportunity to take part in such a struggle. All
    through the centuries there has been this slow, painful struggle
    forward, forward, up, up, a little at a time, along the entire
    incline, the interminable way which leads to the perfection of force,
    to the real seat of justice and honour.

    There are men who have fallen by the way; blood without stint has been
    shed; men have sacrificed everything in this sometimes blind, but
    always instinctive and constant struggle, and America has undertaken
    to lead the way; America has undertaken to be the haven of hope, the
    opportunity for all men.

    Don't look forward too much. Don't look at the road ahead of you in
    dismay. Look at the road behind you. Don't you see how far up the hill
    we have come? Don't you see what those low and damp miasmatic levels
    were from which we have slowly led the way? Don't you see the rows of
    men come, not upon the lower level, but upon the upper, like the rays
    of the rising sun? Don't you see the light starting and don't you see
    the light illuminating all nations?

    Don't you know that you are coming more and more into the beauty of
    its radiance? Don't you know that the past is for ever behind us, that
    we have passed many kinds of evils no longer possible, that we have
    achieved great ends and have almost seen their fruition in free
    America? Don't forget the road that you have trod, but, remembering it
    and looking back for reassurance, look forward with confidence and
    charity to your fellow men one at a time as you pass them along the
    road, and see those who are willing to lead you, and say, "We do not
    believe you know the whole road. We know that you are no prophet, we
    know that you are no seer, but we believe that you know the direction
    and are leading us in that direction, though it costs you your life,
    provided it does not cost you your honour."

    And then trust your guides, imperfect as they are, and some day, when
    we all are dead, men will come and point at the distant upland with a
    great shout of joy and triumph and thank God that there were men who
    undertook to lead in the struggle. What difference does it make if we
    ourselves do not reach the uplands? We have given our lives to the
    enterprise. The world is made happier and humankind better because we
    have lived.

At the end of this memorable and touching speech old Senator James Smith, seated alongside
of me, pulled me by the coat and, in a voice just above a whisper and with tears in his eyes,
said: "That is a great man, Mr. Tumulty. He is destined for great things."

It did not seem possible on this memorable night that within a few days these two Democratic
chieftains would be challenging each other and engaging in a desperate struggle to decide the
question of Democratic leadership in the state.

CHAPTER IX

A PARTY SPLIT

All the prophecies and predictions of the political seers and philosophers of New Jersey, many
of them of course feeling their own partisan pulse, were annihilated and set adrift by the
happenings in New Jersey on the first Tuesday in November, 1910. Woodrow Wilson, college professor,
man of mystery, political recluse, the nominee of the most standpat Democratic convention of
many years, had been chosen the leader of the people of the state by the unprecedented majority
of 39,000, and was wearing the laurels of victory. The old bosses and leaders chuckled and
smiled; they were soon to have a Roman holiday under the aegis of the Wilson Administration.

There were many surprises in the Wilson victory. The Democrats awoke on the day after the election
to find that they had not only won the governorship of the state, but their joy was unbounded
to find that they had captured the Lower House of the Legislature that would have the election,
under the preferential primary system just adopted, of a United States senator. Therein lay
the fly in the ointment. Never in their wildest dreams or vain imaginings did the leaders of
the Democratic party believe that there was the slightest chance even under the most favourable
circumstances of carrying a majority of the vote of the state for the Democratic choice, James
E. Martine, of Plainfield.

The suggestion that it was possible to elect a Democrat to the United States Senate was considered
a form of political heresy. The nomination for the Senate had been thrown about the state until
torn and tattered almost beyond repair; it was finally taken up and salvaged by that sturdy
old Democrat of Union County, Jim Martine. Even I had received the offer of the senatorial
toga, but the one who brought the nomination to me was rudely cast out of my office. The question
was: What would be the attitude of the new Democratic leader, Woodrow Wilson, toward the preferential
choice, Martine? Would the vote at the election be considered as having the full virtue and
vigour of a solemn referendum or was it to be considered as Senator Smith would have it, a
sort of practical joke perpetrated upon the electors? Soon the opinion of the people of the
state began to express itself in no uncertain way, demanding the carrying out of the "solemn
covenant" of the election, only to be answered by the challenge of Senator Smith and his friends
to enter the field against Martine, the choice at the election.

This business pitchforked the Governor-elect prematurely into the rough- and-tumble of "politics
as she is," not always a dainty game. As I review in retrospect this famous chapter of state
history, which, because of the subsequent supreme distinction of one of the parties to the
contest, became a chapter in national history, I realize the almost pathetic situation of Mr.
Wilson. He had called himself an amateur in politics, and such he was in the practical details
and involutions of the great American game, though in his campaign he had shown himself a master
of political debate. In the ordinary course of events he would have been allowed two months
between his election and inauguration to begin an orderly adjustment to the new life, to make
a gradual transition from the comely proprieties of an academic chair to the catch-as-catch-can
methods of the political wrestling mat, to get acquainted with the men and problems of the
new career. But the Smith-Martine affair gave birth prematurely to an immediate occasion for
a fight.

As president of Princeton, Doctor Wilson had proved that he was not averse to a fight when
a fight was necessary and when it was distinctly his affair, but he may well have paused to
consider whether the Smith-Martine business was his affair. One of his favourite stories in
later years was of the Irishman who entered a saloon and seeing two men in a tangle of fists
and writhing legs and bloody heads on the floor at the rear of the saloon, turned to the barkeeper
and asked: "Is this a private fight, or can anybody git into it?" A more politic man than Woodrow
Wilson and one less sensitive to moral duty, might well have argued that this contest was the
business of the Legislature, not of the Governor. Many a governor- elect would have avoided
the issue on this unquestionably sound legal principle, and friends in Princeton were in fact
advising Mr. Wilson to precisely this course, the course of neutrality. It would not be strange
if neutrality, aloofness, had presented a rather attractive picture at times to Mr. Wilson's
mind. Why should he gratuitously take a partisan position between the factions which would
inevitably win for him the enmity of a strong element within the party? Which would also win
for him the unpleasant reputation of ingratitude? For though he had at the first overtures
from Senator Smith and his friends made it as clear as language can make anything that he could
accept the nomination only with the explicit understanding that acceptance should establish
no obligations of political favours to anybody, it would be impossible to make it appear that
opposition to Smith's darling desire to become senator was not an ungracious return to the
man who had led the forces which had nominated Wilson at Trenton.

On the other hand, there was his distinct pledge to the people during his campaign, that if
they elected him governor he would make himself the leader of the party, would broadly and
not with pettifogging legalism interpret his constitutional relationship to the Legislature,
would undertake to assist in legislative action, and not wait supinely for the Legislature
to do something, and then sign or veto the thing done. Moreover, he had insisted on the principle
of the preferential primary as one means by which the people should participate in their own
government and convey an expression of their will and purpose to the law-making body. The people
had voted for Martine. The fact that Senator Smith had scorned to have his name placed on the
ballot, the fact that human imagination could picture a stronger senator from New Jersey than
genial "Jim" Martine did not affect the argument. A great majority had voted for Martine and
for nobody else. Was the use of the preferential primary for the first time in the selection
of a United States senator to be ignored, and all the arguments that Candidate Wilson and others
had made in behalf of the system to be taken "in a Pickwickian sense," as not meaning anything?

There was a real dilemma doubtless much more acutely realized by the Governor-elect than by
the hot-heads, including myself, who were clamorous for an immediate proclamation of support
of Martine, on progressive principles, and for an ultimatum of war-to-the-knife against Smith
and the old crowd.

It seemed as if Mr. Wilson were hesitating and holding off, reluctant to accept the gage of
battle thrown down by the challenge of the Smith wing. The leading Democratic and Independent
journals of the state were most insistent that immediate proof be given by Governor-elect Wilson
of his leadership and control over the party and that a test should be made as to which influence,
reactionary or progressive, was to control the destinies of our party in the state. Those of
us who had followed the candidate throughout the campaign and who had been heartened by his
progressive attitude were sorely disappointed at his failure immediately to act. It was painfully
evident to us that behind the scenes at Princeton the new governor's friends, particularly
Colonel Harvey, were urging upon him cautious and well-considered action and what mayhap might
be called "a policy of watchful waiting," picturing to him the insurmountable difficulties
that would lie in his path in case he exercised his leadership in the matter of Martine's selection
to the United States Senate. They suggested that the vote for Martine had no binding force;
that it was a mere perfunctory expression of preference in the matter of the United States
senatorship which the Legislature was free to ignore. The only man, therefore, who could make
the vote effective was the Governor-elect himself. What he would do in these circumstances
was for days after the election a matter of perplexing doubt to his many friends. Disappointment
and chagrin at the candidate's silence brooded over the ranks of the progressives of the state.
In my law office in Jersey City I tried to convince those who came to confer with me regarding
the matter that they must be patient; that, ultimately, everything would be all right and that
Doctor Wilson would soon assert his leadership over the party and take his proper place at
the head of those who worked to make the preferential vote an effective instrumentality. Frankly,
though I did not give expression to my doubts, I was profoundly and deeply disappointed at
the apparently hesitant, uncertain attitude of the Governor-elect. Feeling certain that popular
opinion would be with him in case he decided to lead in this struggle, I was convinced that
the delay in announcing his attitude toward the Smith-Nugent "defi" was dampening the ardour
and enthusiasm of many of his friends.

The progressive Democrats of the state waited with patience the word of command and counsel
from the Princeton professor to initiate the fight that would settle for all time in the state
of New Jersey the question whether the referendum on the question of the election of United
States senators should be treated as "a scrap of paper," or whether it was to be upheld and
vindicated by the action of the Legislature. No direct word came to me of the Governor-elect's
attitude on this vital question. Rumours of his position toward Senator Smith's candidacy filtered
"through the lines" from Princeton; various stories and intimations that seemed to indicate
that the Governor-elect would allow Martine's selection to go by default; that he would not
interfere in any way to carry out the mandate of the election.

Things were in this unsatisfactory condition when to my surprise I received a call in my modest
Jersey City law offices from the Governor- elect. Knowing him as I know him, I can see that
in his deliberate fashion he was taking testimony from both sides and slowly arriving at his
own decision. Having heard from the cautious who counselled neutrality, he was now seeking
the arguments of the impetuous who demanded action and wanted it "hot off the bat." But at
that time, not knowing him as I now know him, he seemed, in this interview, to be vacillating
between two opinions, for he did what I have often known him to do subsequently: stated with
lucidity the arguments of the other side, and with the air of one quite open-minded, without
opinions of his own, seemed to seek my arguments in rebuttal. I was sorely disappointed by
what then seemed to me his negative attitude, so unlike the militant debater whom I had come
to admire in the campaign which had recently been brought to a brilliant and victorious close.
In my youthful impetuosity I felt that we had been deceived in our man, a bold talker but timid
in action. I simply did not then know the man and the mixed elements in him. Later, in close
association, I was to see this phase of him not infrequently, the canny Scot, listening without
comment and apparently with mind to let to conflicting arguments while his own mind was slowly
moving to its own position, where it would stand fixed and immovable as Gibraltar.

Almost as if it were an academic question, with which he had no personal concern, he propounded
the alternatives: Should he lead the fight against Senator Smith, or should he stand aloof
and permit the Legislature to act without any suggestion from him? He summarized the arguments
of his friends at Princeton who were advising him to steer clear of this fight and not permit
himself to be drawn into it by young, impetuous people like myself. He said that certain overtures
and suggestions of compromises had been made to him by Senator Smith's friends, to the effect
that if he would not play a leading part in the fight and allow the Legislature to act without
interference from him, Senator Smith and his friends in the state would agree not to oppose
his legislative programme at the coming session. It was further suggested that Senator Smith
had the necessary votes to elect himself and that it would be futile to attempt to elect Jim
Martine; and that his intervention in this family quarrel would result in a bitter and humiliating
defeat for him at the very outset of his administration. When the Governor-elect had concluded
this preliminary statement, I was depressed and disappointed. I did not think there should
be a moment's hesitation on his part in at once accepting the challenge so defiantly addressed
to him by the Democratic bosses of the state.

Frankly, I laid the whole case before him in words to this effect: "My dear Doctor Wilson,
there is no way I can better serve you than by frankly dealing with the question. Your friends
away off in Princeton probably do not know how for years our party and its destinies have been
in the hands of these very men, enemies of liberalism in New Jersey, who by your silence or
indifference as to the United States senatorship are to be given a new lease on life. The issue
involved in this fight is fundamental and goes far beyond the senatorship. The action you take
will have a far- reaching effect upon our party's fortunes and no one can calculate the effect
it will undoubtedly have on your own political future. In urging you not to take part in this
fight your friends are acting unwisely. You cannot afford not to fight and not to have an immediate
test of your leadership in this matter. The question of Mr. Martine's fitness, as your friends
urge, is not an issue seriously to be considered. 47,454 votes in the state have decided that
matter and you cannot reverse their verdict. Your friends have placed too much emphasis on
Martine's alleged unfitness and too little on the duty you owe the party and the state as leader."

I called to his attention the fact that men like myself had been heartened and encouraged by
his speeches in the campaign; how we felt that at last we had found in him a leader, bold and
fearless, and that now, when the first real test of leadership came, it appeared that we were
to be disappointed and that by his silence and inaction he would permit Senator Smith to win
and allow Martine, the popular choice, to be defeated, thus setting aside the verdict of the
election. He listened intently but without comment to all I had to say. Proceeding with my
argument, I said: "The people of New Jersey accepted your word and, to employ your own phrase,
'took a sportsman's chance on you' and they must not be disappointed. Your failure to make
this fight will mean that you have not only surrendered your leadership as governor in this
matter, but by the same act you will have abdicated your leadership in favour of the Old Guard
all along the line. They have set a trap for you, and I know you will not permit yourself to
be caught in it." In conclusion I said: "They say they will support your reform programme.
What assurance have you that, having defeated you in this your first big fight, they will not
turn on you and defeat your whole legislative programme? As governor, you have the power to
lead us to a great victory in this vital matter. Exercise it now, and opinion throughout the
state will strongly and enthusiastically support you. You have but to announce your willingness
to lead and the people of the state will rally to your standard. The fight, in any event, will
be made and we wish you to lead it. This is really the first step to the Presidency. That is
what is really involved. Not only the people of New Jersey but the people of America are interested
in this fight. They are clamouring for leadership, and I am sure you are the man to lead, and
that you will not fail."

When the Governor-elect rose to leave my office, he turned to me and asked, still in a non-committal
manner, whether in my opinion we could win the fight in case he should decide to enter upon
it. I at once assured him that while the various political machines of the state would oppose
him at every turn, their so-called organizations were made of cardboard and that they would
immediately disintegrate and fall the moment he assumed leadership and announced that the fight
was on.

In his own time and by his own processes Mr. Wilson arrived at his decision. It was the first
of my many experiences of his deliberative processes in making up his mind and of the fire
and granite in him after he had made his decision. He informed me that he would support Martine
and use all his force, official and personal, to have the Legislature accept the preferential
primary as the people's mandate.

