"With all my heart, daddy," answered Withers, and twigg'd the tickler to the tune of a deep
dram:  and passed it on to Macdonald, who also twigg'd it, "and Tom twigg'd it, and Dick twigg'd
it, and Harry twigg'd it, and so they all twigg'd it."  In the mean time the chat went round
very briskly, and dram after dram, the brandy, until the tickler was drained to the bottom.
And then the subtle spirit of the brandy, ascending into their noddles, worked such wonders,
that they all began to feel themselves as big as field officers.

"Charge, boys! charge!" cried all the rest, reining up their horses, and flourishing their swords.

"Where the plague are you going to charge?" asked the old tory.

"Why, into Georgetown, right off," replied they.

"Well, you had better have a care, boys, how you charge there, for I'll be blamed if you do
not get yourselves into business pretty quick: for the town is chock full of red coats."

"Red coats!" one and all they roared out, "red coats! egad, that's just what we want.  Charge,
boys! charge! huzza for the red coats, damme!"

Then, clapping spurs to their steeds, off went these six young mad-caps, huzzaing and flourishing
their swords, and charging at full tilt, into a British garrison town of three hundred men!!

The enemy supposing that this was only our advance, and that general Marion, with his whole
force, would presently be upon them, flew with all speed to their redoubt, and there lay, as
snug as fleas in a sheep-skin. But all of them were not quite so lucky, for several were overtaken
and cut down in the streets, among whom was a sergeant major, a stout greasy fellow, who strove
hard to waddle away with his bacon; but Selim was too quick for him:  and Macdonald, with a
back-handed stroke of his claymore, sent his frightened ghost to join the MAJORITY.

Having thus cleared the streets, our young troopers then called at the houses of their friends;
asked the news; and drank their grog with great unconcern.

The British, after having for some time vainly looked for Marion, began to smell the trick,
and in great wrath sallied forth for vengeance. Our adventurers then, in turn, were fain to
scamper off as fast as they had made the others before, but with better success; for though
hundreds of muskets were fired after them, they got clear without receiving a scratch.

But nothing ever so mortified the British, as did this mad frolic. "That half a dozen d--n-d
young rebels," they said, "should thus dash in among us in open daylight, and fall to cutting
and slashing the king's troops at this rate.  And after all, to gallop away without the least
harm in hair or hide.  'Tis high time to turn our bayonets into pitch forks, and go to foddering
the cows."

Chapter 20.

  History of captain Snipes -- wanton destruction of his property
  by the tories -- his own miraculous escape -- admirable fidelity
  of his negro driver Cudjo.

Captain Snipes, who made such a figure in the wars of Marion, was a Carolinian, of uncommon
strength and courage; both of which he exerted with great good will, against the British and
tories; from principle partly, and partly from revenge.  But though a choice soldier, he was
no philosopher. He did not consider that to fight for duty, people must love it; that to love
it, they must understand it; that to understand it, they must possess letters and religion:
that the British and tories, poor fellows! possessing neither of these, were not to have been
expected to act any other than the savage and thievish part they did act; and therefore, no
more to be hated for it than the cats are for teasing the canary birds.

But captain Snipes had no turn for investigations of this sort. Knowledge, by intuition, was
all that he cared for; and having it, by instinct, that an "Englishman ought never to fight
against liberty," nor an "American against his own country," he looked on them, to use his
own phrase, as a "pack of d--n-d rascals, whom it was doing God service to kill wherever he
could find them."

But Snipes was not the aggressor.  He kept in, very decently, till the enemy began to let out,
as they did, in plundering, burning, and hanging the poor whigs; and then, indeed, like a consuming
fire, his smothered hate broke forth:

    "That hate which hurled to Pluto's gloomy reign
    The souls of royal slaves untimely slain."

Afraid, in fair fight, to meet that sword which had so often shivered their friends, they determined
to take him as the Philistines did Samson, by surprise; and having learned from their spies,
that he was at home, they came upon him in force about midnight. His complete destruction,
both of life and property, was their horrid aim. Happily, his driver, or black overseer, overheard
their approach; and flying to his master with terror-struck looks, cries out "Run! run! massa,
run! de enemy 'pon you."

Snipes, stark naked, save his shirt, darted out as swift as his legs could carry him.

"But where shall I run, Cudjo? into the barn?"

"Oh no, massa! dey burn de barn, dat sure ting!"

"Well, where shall I run then?"

"Take de bush massa! take de briar bush."

Within fifty yards of the house was a clump of briers, so thick set, that one would have thought
a frightened cat would scarcely have squeezed herself into it from the hot pursuing dogs. But
what will not fear enable a man to do?  Captain Snipes, big as he was, slipped into it with
the facility of a weasel through the chinks of a chicken-coop; but lost every thread and thrumb
of his shirt; and moreover, got his hide so scratched and torn by the briers, that the blood
trickled from him fast as gravy from a fat green goose.

Scarcely had he gained his hiding-place, before the tories, with horrid oaths, burst into his
house, with their guns cocked, ready to shoot him. But oh! death to their hopes! he was gone:
the nest was there, and warm, but the bird was flown!

Then seizing poor Cudjo by the throat, they bawled out:  "You d----d rascal, where's your master?"

He told them he did not know.

"You lie! you black son of a b-t-h! you lie."

But he still asserted he knew nothing of his master.

Suspecting that he must be in some one or other of his buildings, they set fire to them all;
to his dwelling house, his kitchen, his stables, and even his negro cabins, watching all the
while, with their muskets ready to shoot him as he ran out.  From their nearness to his lurking
place, the heat of his burning houses was so intense as to parch his skin into blisters.  But
it was death to stir, for he would certainly have been seen.

Not having made the discovery they so much wished, they again seized Cudjo; and, with their
cocked pieces at his breast, swore if he did not instantly tell them where his master was,
they would put him to death.

He still declared he did not know where he was.

Then they clapped a halter round his neck, and told him to "down on his knees, and say his
prayers at once, for he had but two minutes to live!"

He replied, that he "did not want to say his prayers NOW, for that he was no thief, and had
always been a true slave to his master."

This fine sentiment of the poor black was entirely lost on our malignant whites; who, throwing
the end of the halter over the limb of an oak, tucked him up as though he had been a mad dog.
He hung till he was nearly dead; when one of them called out, "D--n him, cut him down, I'll
be bound he'll tell us now." Cudjo was accordingly cut down; and, as soon as a little recovered,
questioned again about his master.  But he still declared he knew nothing of him.  He was then
hoisted a second time; and a second time, when nearly dead, cut down and questioned as before:
but still asserted his ignorance.  The same inhuman part was acted on him a third time, but
with no better success; for the brave fellow still continued faithful to his master, who squatted
and trembled in his place of torment, his brier bush, and saw and heard all that was passing.

Persuaded now that Cudjo really knew nothing of his master, they gave up the shameful contest,
and went off, leaving him half dead on the ground, but covered with glory.

It is not easy to conceive a situation more severely torturing than this of captain Snipes.
His house, with all his furniture, his kitchen, his barn and rice-stacks, his stables, with
several fine horses, and his negro houses, all wrapped in flames; himself scorched and blistered
with the furious heat, yet not daring to stir; his retreat well known to a poor slave; and
that slave alone, in the hands of an enraged banditti, with their muskets at his breast, imprecating
the most horrid curses on themselves, if they did not instantly murder him unless he disclosed
the secret!  What had he to expect of this poor slave, but that he would sink under the dreadful
trial, and to save himself would sacrifice his master.  But Snipes was safe.  To discover his
hiding-place, death stared his slave in the face, but, happily, his slave possessed for him
that "love which is stronger than death."

Captain Snipes and his man Cudjo had been brought up from childhood together; and the father
of our hero being a professor of Christianity, a Baptist preacher, whose main excellence is
"to teach little children to love one another," had taken great pains to inspire his son with
love towards his little slave.  Nor did that love pass unrequited. For Cudjo used every day
to follow his young master to school, carrying his basket for him, prattling as he went; and
smiling, would remind him of the coming Saturday, and what fine fishing and hunting they would
have that day.  Many a time had they wrestled, and slept side by side on the green; and thence
springing up again with renovated strength, set out in full march for some favorite fruit tree,
or some cooling pond, there to swim and gambol in the refreshing flood. And when the time of
dinner came, Cudjo was not scornfully left to sigh and to gnaw his nails alone, but would play
and sing about the door till his young master was done, and then he was sure to receive a good
plate full for himself.  LOVE, thus early ingrafted on his heart, grew up with daily increasing
strength to manhood; when Snipes, by the death of his father, became master of the estate,
made Cudjo his driver or overseer, and thus rivetted on his honest bosom that sacred friendship
which, as we have seen, enabled him to triumph in one of the severest trials that human nature
was ever put to.

The above is a solemn fact, and the wise will lay it to heart.

Chapter 21.

  Marion pursues major Muckleworth -- fine anecdote of the major --
  Marion's generosity to him.

Learning that a detachment of the British were marching up Black river towards Statesburgh
and Camden, general Marion gave orders to chase; which was conducted, as usual, with such rapidity,
that about sunset of the second day we came up with them.  Our advance, composed of choice
fellows, instantly began to skirmish with the enemy, of whom they killed eight or nine.  A
few on both sides, rather badly wounded, were made prisoners.  Marion, coming up, gave orders
to call off the troops, meaning to give the enemy a serious brush in the morning. -- But of
this gratification they entirely disappointed us, by striking their tents and pushing off in
silence before day.

Soon as light returned, and the retreat of the British was announced, we renewed the pursuit;
and by late breakfast-time, reached the house at which the enemy had refreshed themselves.
This house belonged to a poor, but excellent old lady, well known to Marion.

The general was hardly alighted from his horse, before the old lady had him by the hand, declaring
how happy she had always been to see him, "but now," continued she, "if I an't right down sorry
to see you, then I'll be hanged."

Marion, with a look of surprise, asked her why she was sorry to see him NOW.

"Oh! don't I know you too well, general? don't I know that old Scratch himself can't keep you
from fighting?  And now you are hurrying along here, with all your men, only to fight the British.
An't it so now, general?"

Marion told her, that that was indeed his business.

"Well, dear me now! and did I not tell you so?  But pray now, my dear general Marion, let me
beg of you, don't you do any harm to that dear good man, that major Muckleworth,* who went
from here a little while ago:  for O! he's the sweetest-spoken, mildest-looking, noblest-spirited
Englishman I ever saw in all my born days. As to that Rawdon and Tarleton, God's curse upon
the thieves and blackguards! I would not care if you could kill a thousand of THEM. But that
good major Muckleworth! indeed, indeed now general, you must not hurt a hair of his head, for
it would be such a crying sin."

--
* Simms gives this name as "McIlraith", and James as "M`Ilraith",
  but in this one case, Weems' corruption of the name,
  which colloquially means "much worth", is more satisfying.  -- A. L., 1997.
--

Marion asked her in what respects was he better than other British officers.

"Better than other British officers!" replied the old lady. -- "Lord bless your dear soul,
general Marion!  Well, come along, come along with me, and I'll let you see."

We followed the old lady, who, tripping along nimble as a girl, conducted us into a clean looking
cabin, wherein sat a middle-aged man very genteelly dressed, and several wounded persons lying
before him, on pallets on the floor.  Marion saluted the stranger, who informed us that he
was "a surgeon in the service of his Britannic majesty, and left by major Muckleworth to take
care of the wounded; of whom, sir, I believe that nearly one half are your own men."

Here the old lady's face brightened up towards Marion; and giving him a very significant look,
she said, "Ah ha, general! didn't I tell you so?"

Then diving her withered hand in her pocket, she scooped up a shining parcel of English guineas,
and exultingly cried out, "See there, general! see there's a sight for you? and every penny
of it given me by that dear good gentleman, major Muckleworth; every penny of it, sir.  Yes,
and if you will but believe me, general, when I and my daughters were getting breakfast for
him and his people, if he didn't come here himself with his sergeants, and had this place swept
out all so sweet and clean for them poor sick people; and, with his own dear hands too, helped
that gentleman there to dress and doctor the poor things, that he did.

"And then besides all that, general, he was such a sweet spoken gentleman! for when I asked
him how his men came to be hurt so, he did not, like that beast Tarleton, turn black and blue
in the face, and fall to cursing the d----d rebels.  Oh no! not he indeed. But he said with
a smile, We got them wounded last night, madam, in a little brush with your brave countryman,
general Marion.

"Now only think of that, general!  And besides, when he was going away, what do you think he
did?  Why, sir, he sent for me and said, --  Well, my good madam, and what shall I pay you
for all the trouble we have given you, and also for taking care of the doctor I am going to
leave with you, and the sick people, who may be on your hands for a fortnight yet?

"I told him it was no business of mine to fix a price.

"He seemed surprised, and asked me what I meant by that.

"I answered that I was now all one as his prisoner, and prisoners had nothing they could call
their own.

"My king, madam, said he, does not make war against widows.

"I told him I wished to God all his countrymen had remembered that! it would have saved the
hunger and nakedness, and cries and tears of many a poor widow and orphan.  At this he seemed
mightily hurt.

"I then told him that many of the British officers, after eating and drinking all that they
wanted, for themselves and people, and horses, instead of turning round to pay, as he had done,
had turned in to plunder, and then set fire to the houses, not leaving the widows and children
a cover over their heads, nor a bit of bread for their mouths, nor a stitch of clothes for
their backs.

"My God! said he, and is this the way that my countrymen have come here to carry on war!  Well
madam, (so he went on) my king does not know any thing of this, nor does the English nation,
I am sure. If they did, they would certainly call those officers to account. Such men will
ruin our cause.  For the word of God assures us, that his ear is always open to the cry of
the widow and orphan; and believe me, madam, I dread their cry more than I do the shouts of
an enemy's army.  However, madam, (continued he,) I have not a moment to lose, for I am sure
general Marion is pursuing me as hard as he can, so let me know what I owe you.

"I told him again, I made no charge; but since he was so good as to insist on giving me something,
I begged to leave the matter entirely to himself. Upon which, after a moment's study, he looked
at me and said, Well, madam, suppose we say sixpence sterling a-piece man and horse, all around,
will that do?  I replied that was too much, a great deal too much, for such a poor breakfast
as I had given him and his men. Not a penny too much, madam, said he, live and let live is
the royal law, madam, and here's your money.  With that he put all these guineas here, into
my hand! and said moreover, that if the doctor and sick people should be longer with me, and
give me more trouble and cost than we had counted on, then I must send a note to him, at such
a house in Charleston, and he would send me the money. And now, general, would it not be a
burning shame to go kill such a dear good gentleman as that?"

Marion listened with delight to the old lady's history of this amiable officer; but on her
leaving him to hasten our breakfast, he looked very pensive, and at a loss what to do.  However,
as soon as the troops were refreshed, he ordered my brother, colonel H. Horry, who led the
advance, to remount, and push after the enemy with all speed. We followed close in the rear.
For an hour the general did not open his mouth, but rode on like one absorbed in thought. At
length heaving a deep sigh, he said, "Well, I suppose I feel now very much as I should feel,
were I in pursuit of a brother to kill him."

About three o'clock our advance came up with the enemy, near the wealthy and hospitable captain
John Singleton's mills, where the firing instantly commenced, and was as spiritedly returned
by the British, still retreating.  Our marksmen presently stopped one of Muckleworth's captains,
and several of his men, who lay dead on the ground at the very spot where we happened to join
the advance. The sight of these poor fellows lying in their blood, gave the general's wavering
mind the casting vote in favor of generosity; for he immediately cried out, "Call off the troops!
call off the troops!" Then turning to his aid he said, "I cannot stand it any longer; we owe
yon Englishmen to our injured country; but there is an angel that guards them. Ten righteous
Lots would have saved Sodom.  One generous Muckleworth shall save this handful.  Let us turn
and fight other enemies."

The general's orders were quickly passed on to the troops to cease firing. And to their credit
be it spoken, they never, I believe, obeyed his orders with more alacrity than on this occasion.
Indeed I heard many of them say, afterwards, that major Muckleworth's generosity to their wounded
comrades and to the poor widow, had so won their hearts to him, that they had none left wherewith
to fight against him; and they said also, that, for their parts, they had rather kill a thousand
such savages as Rawdon and Tarleton, than hurt a hair of major Muckleworth's head.

From the effect produced on our troops, by this amiable officer's conduct, I have often been
led to think favorably of a saying common with Marion, viz., had the British officers but acted
as became a wise and magnanimous enemy, they might easily have recovered the revolted colonies.

Never did the pulse of love towards a parent state beat stronger in human bosoms, than in those
of the Carolinians towards Britain. We looked on her as indeed our mother, and on her children
as our brothers. And ah! had their government but treated us with correspondent kindness, Carolina
would have been with them to a man.  Had they said to the people, as they might easily have
done (for there was a time, and a long time too, when the whole state was entirely at their
feet,) had they then said to us, "We are far richer, far stronger, than you; we can easily
burn your houses, take your provisions, carry off your cattle, and sweep your country with
the besom of destruction; but we abhor the idea.  Your houses, your women, your children, are
all sacred in our eyes; and even of your goods we will touch nothing without giving you a reasonable
price." Had they but said this, Carolina would, to a certainty, have been divorced from Congress,
and re-wedded to Britain.

We may lay what emphasis we please on the term COUNTRYMEN, COUNTRYMEN! but after all, as Christ
says, "he is our countryman who showeth mercy unto us."

A British officer, a major Muckleworth, for example, calls at my plantation, and takes my fine
horses and fat beeves, my pigs, my poultry and grain; but at parting, launches out for me a
fist full of yellow boys! On the other hand, an American officer calls and sweeps me of everything,
and then lugs out a bundle of continental proc! such trash, that hardly a cow would give a
corn shock for a horse load of it.

The Englishman leaves me richer than he found me, and abler to educate and provide for my children:
the American leaves me and my family half ruined.  Now I wish to know where, in such a selfish
world as this, where is there a man in a million, but would take part with the generous Englishman,
and fight for him?

This was the theory of Marion; and it was the practice of Muckleworth, whom it certainly saved
to the British; and would, if universal, have saved Carolina and Georgia to them too; and perhaps,
all America. But so little idea had they of this mode of conciliating to conquer, that when
the good major Muckleworth returned to Charleston, he was hooted at by the British officers,
who said he might do well enough for a chaplain, or a methodist preacher, for what they knew,
but they'd be d--n-d if he were fit to be a British major.

The truth is, such divine philosophy was too refined for such coarse and vulgar characters,
as Cornwallis, Rawdon, Tarleton, Balfour, and Weymies; monsters who disgraced the brave and
generous nation they represented, and completely damned the cause they were sent to save. But
what better was to have been expected of those, who, from early life, if tradition say true,
discovered a total dislike to the ennobling pleasures of literature and devotion, but a boundless
passion for the brutalizing sports of the bear-garden and cock-pit? Bull-baiters, cock-fighters,
and dog worriers, turned officers, had no idea of conquering the Americans, but by "cutting
their throats or knocking out their brains;" or as the tender-hearted Cornwallis commanded,
by "hanging them, and taking away, or destroying their goods."

Now Satan himself could have counselled my lord better than that; as any man may see, who will
but open his bible and turn to the book of Job, chap. the 1st, verse 6th, and so on.  There
Moses informs, that when Satan, whose effrontery is up to any thing, presented himself at the
grand levee, the Almighty very civilly asked him, (now mind that, `saints', in your speech
to poor sinners) -- the Almighty, I say, very CIVILLY asked him "where he had been of late."

To this, his royal highness, the brimstone king, replied, that he had been only taking a turn
or two "up and down the earth."

The divine voice again interrogated:  "Hast thou considered my servant Job? an excellent man,
is he not; one who feareth God and escheweth evil?"

"Job's well enough," replied Satan, rather pertly, but where's the wonder of all that?  You
have done great things for the fellow; you have planted a hedge around him, and around all
that he hath on every side.  You have blessed the works of his hands, and his substance is
increased in the land; and if, after all this, he cannot afford you a little gratitude, he
must be a poor devil indeed. But put forth thy hand now, and touch all that he hath, and he'll
curse thee to thy face."

This was the devil's logic as to Job:  but the British general had not the wit to reason in
that style towards the Americans.  For my Lord Cornwallis said unto my lord Rawdon; and my
lord Rawdon said unto my would-be lord, colonel Tarleton; and colonel Tarleton said unto major
Weymies; and major Weymies said unto Will Cunningham, and unto the British soldiers with their
tory negro allies; "Put forth your hands, boys, and burn, and plunder the d--n-d rebels; and
instead of cursing you to your face, they will fall down and kiss your feet."

"Experience," says Doctor Franklin, "is a dear school; but fools will learn in no other, and
hardly in that." And what right had lord North to expect success in America, when for officers
he sent such fools as would take no lesson either from God or devil.

Chapter 22.

  Colonel Watson attempts to surprise Marion -- is out-generaled,
  and after much loss driven back to Georgetown.

In consequence of his incessant attacks on the British and tories, Marion was, I believe, heartily
hated by them, as ever Samson was by the Philistines, or George Whitefield by the devil. Numerous
were the attempts made by their best officers to surprise him; but such was his own vigilance
and the fidelity of his whig friends, that he seldom failed to get the first blow at them,
and to take their unwary feet in the same evil net which they had spread for him.

His method to anticipate the meditated malice of his enemies, is well worthy of notice.  He
always had in his service a parcel of active young men, generally selected from the best whig
families, and of tried courage and fidelity.  These, mounted on the swiftest horses, he would
station in the neighborhood of those places where the British and tories were embodied in force,
as Camden, Georgetown, &c. with instructions to leave no stratagem untried to find out the
intended movements of the enemy.  Instantly as this information was obtained, (whether by climbing
tall trees that overlooked the garrisons; or from friends acting as market people) they were
to mount and push off at full speed to the nearest of a chain of posts established at short
and convenient distances, with fleet horses ready saddled and bridled, to bear the intelligence
with equal speed, the first to the second, the second to the third, and so on.  In this expeditious
method, as by a telegraph,* Marion was presently notified of the designs of the enemy. Of the
exceeding importance of such a plan, we had a very striking proof at this time.  Exasperated
against Marion, for the infinite harm he did the royal cause in Carolina, the British general,
in Camden, determined to surprise him at his old place of retreat, SNOW'S ISLAND; and thus
destroy or break him up completely.  To this end he despatched a couple of favorite officers,
colonels Watson and Doyle, with a heavy force, both cavalry and infantry, to seize the lower
bridge on Black river and thereby effectually prevent our escape. But the vigilance and activity
of his scouts frustrated this well-concerted plan entirely.  Getting early notice of this manoeuvre
by captain, now general Canty, Marion instantly started his troops, composed chiefly of mounted
riflemen and light dragoons and pushed hard for the same point.  By taking a nearer cut, we
had the good fortune to gain the bridge before the enemy, and having destroyed it as soon as
we crossed, we concealed ourselves in the dark swamp, anxiously waiting their arrival.  In
a short time, they came in full view on the opposite hill, and there encamped. --  Presently,
unapprehensive of danger, for they saw nothing of us, two of their men came down for water
to the river.  Unable to resist such a temptation, two of our noted marksmen instantly drew
their sights and let fly. The two Englishmen fell; one of them was killed dead; the other badly
wounded, and so frightened, that he bellowed like a bull-calf for help. Several of his gallant
countrymen ran to his assistance, but they were shot down as fast as they got to him.

--
* The old meaning of "telegraph" is used here, as any system of communication
  over distance, such as signal fires, semaphore, etc.  -- A. L., 1997.
--

The next morning colonel Watson sent a flag over to Marion, whom he charged with carrying on
war in a manner entirely different from all civilized nations.  "Why sir," said he to Marion,
"you must certainly command a horde of savages, who delight in nothing but murder. I can't
cross a swamp or a bridge, but I am waylaid and shot at as if I were a mad dog.  Even my sentries
are fired at and killed on their posts.  Why, my God, sir! this is not the way that Christians
ought to fight!"

To this Marion replied, that "he was sorry to be obliged to say, that from what he had known
of them, the British officers were the last men on earth who had any right to preach about
honor and humanity. That for men to come three thousand miles to plunder and hang an innocent
people, and then to tell that people how they ought to fight, betrayed an ignorance and impudence
which he fain would hope had no parallel in the history of man.  That for his part, he always
believed, and still did believe that he should be doing God and his country good service to
surprise and kill such men, while they continued this diabolical warfare, as he would the wolves
and panthers of the forest."

Thus ended the correspondence for that time.

While things remained in this state between the hostile parties, Macdonald, as usual, was employing
himself in a close and bold reconnoitre of the enemy's camp.

The next morning colonel Watson sent another flag to Marion, requesting that he would grant
a passport to his lieutenant Torquano, who was badly wounded, and wished to be carried to Charleston.
On receiving the flag, which happened while I was by him, Marion turned to me, and with a smile
said, "Well, this note of colonel Watson looks a little as if he were coming to his senses.
But who is lieutenant Torquano?"

I replied that he was a young Englishman, who had been quartered in Charleston, at the house
of that good whig lady, Mrs. Brainford and her daughters, whom he had treated very politely,
and often protected from insults.

"Well," said he, "if that be lieutenant Torquano, he must be a very clever fellow; and shall
certainly have a passport to Charleston, or even to Paradise, if I had the keys of St. Peter."

On repassing Black river in haste, Macdonald had left his clothes behind him at a poor woman's
house, where the enemy seized them.

Several of Watson's officers who were present when the message was delivered, advised him by
all means to return his clothes, for that they knew him to be a most desperate fellow, one
who would stop at nothing he set his head upon; witness his late daring act of climbing like
a cougar, into a tree, to kill his passing enemies.  Watson sent him back his wallet of clothes.

Soon after this, the enemy decamped silently in the night, and took the road towards Santee.
On the return of day announcing their flight, Marion ordered me to take the mounted riflemen,
thirty in number, with fifty horse, and pursue and harass the enemy as much as possible, till
he could come up with the infantry.

About night I approached their encampment, and halted in a neighboring swamp; whence I continued
to send out small parties, frequently relieved, with orders to pop away at their sentinels,
and keep them alarmed and under arms all night.  At daybreak they pushed hard for the sandpit
bridge. We followed close in the rear, constantly firing on them from every thicket and swamp;
and often, in spite of their field pieces, making false charges.  Never did I see a body of
infantry ply their legs so briskly.  The rogues were constantly in a dog trot, except when
they occasionally halted to give us a blast, which they did from their whole line.  But though
their bullets made a confounded whizzing and clatter among the branches over our heads, yet
thank God they did no harm, save that of scratching some three or four of us.

On coming within a few miles of it, we made a rapid push for the bridge, which we quickly rendered
impassable, by throwing off the plank and sleepers. Then having posted my riflemen in the thick
woods, within fifty yards of the ford, under command of lieutenant Scott, I drew up my cavalry
close in the rear, and waited impatiently for the enemy, hoping to give a handsome Bunker's
Hill account of them.

The enemy were presently in sight, and formed in close column, began to push through the fording
place, though full waist deep. My heart now throbbed with anxiety; looking every moment for
a stream of fire to burst upon the British, spreading destruction through their ranks.

But, to my infinite mortification, no lightnings bursted forth; no thunders roared; no enemy
fell.  As, half choked with grief and rage, I looked around for the cause, behold! my brave
lieutenant Scott, at the head of his riflemen, came stooping along with his gun in his hand,
and the black marks of shame and cowardice on his sheepish face. "Infamous poltroon," said
I, shaking my sword over his head, "where is that hetacomb of robbers and murderers due to
the vengeance of your injured country?"

He began to stammer out some apology, which I quickly suppressed, by ordering him out of my
sight.  It is worthy of remark, that his men, instead of apologising for him, called him a
coward to his face, and declared that it was he who had restrained them by telling them they
were flanked by the enemy, who would assuredly cut them to pieces if they fired a shot.

As the advance of the British were thus undisturbedly passing on, a heavy firing was suddenly
heard in the rear.  It was Marion; who, having come up with the enemy, had attacked him with
great fury. The British did not halt, but continued a running fight through the woods till
they gained the open fields; where, by means of their artillery, they kept us at a distance.
In this rencontre, Watson had his horse killed under him, and left about twenty of his men
dead on the ground. His wounded filled several wagons.

He did not halt a moment, but pushed hard for Georgetown; and late at night encamped on the
plantation of Mr. Trapier, to whom he told a dreadful story about Marion and his damned rebels,
who would not, as he said, sleep and fight like gentlemen, but, like savages, were eternally
firing and whooping around him by night; and by day, waylaying and popping at him from behind
every tree he went by.

As it was too late to pursue the enemy, Marion encamped for the night near the field of battle,
and next morning marched for his old post, Snow's Island, where he allowed us a few days of
welcome repose.

Chapter 23.

  Patriotism of Mrs. Jenkins -- colonel Watson, colonel Doyle, and the tories,
  make alarming advances upon general Marion -- his men begin to desert him --
  Horry turns orator, and harangues the troops -- they repeat
  their assurances of patriotism and attachment to Marion --
  he dashes out again upon the enemy -- prospects brighten --
  and the good old cause begins to look up again.

It was not for the British and Marion to lie long at rest in the same neighborhood.  After
a short repose, Colonel Watson, with a stout force of regulars and tories, made an inroad upon
Pedee; which was no sooner known in our camp, than Marion pushed after him. We presently struck
their trail; and after a handsome day's run, pitched our tents near the house of the excellent
widow Jenkins, and on the very spot which the British had left in the morning. Colonel Watson,
it seems, had taken his quarters that night in her house; and learning that she had three sons
with Marion, all active young men, he sent for her after supper, and desired her to sit down
and take a glass of wine with him.  To this request, a good old lady of taste and manners could
have no objection: so waiting upon the colonel, and taking a chair which he handed her, she
sat down and emptied her glass to his health.  He then commenced the following conversation
with her:

"So, madam, they tell me you have several sons in general Marion's camp; I hope it is not true."

She said it was very true, and was only sorry that it was not a thousand times truer.

"A thousand times truer, madam!" replied he with great surprise, "pray what can be your meaning
in that?"

"Why, sir, I am only sorry that in place of three, I have not three thousand sons with general
Marion."

"Aye indeed! well then, madam, begging your pardon, you had better send for them immediately
to come in and join his majesty's troops under my command:  for as they are rebels now in arms
against their king, should they be taken they will be hung as sure as ever they were born."

"Why, sir," said the old lady, "you are very considerate of my sons; for which at any rate
I thank you.  But, as you have begged my pardon for giving me this advice, I must beg yours
for not taking it. My sons, sir, are of age, and must and will act for themselves. And as to
their being in a state of rebellion against their king, I must take the liberty, sir, to deny
that."

"What, madam!" replied he, "not in rebellion against their king? shooting at and killing his
majesty's subjects like wolves! don't you call that rebellion against their king, madam?"

"No, sir," answered she:  "they are only doing their duty, as God and nature commanded them, sir."

"The d---l they are, madam!"

"Yes, sir," continued she, "and what you and every man in England would glory to do against
the king, were he to dare to tax you contrary to your own consent and the constitution of the
realm. 'Tis the king, sir, who is in rebellion against my sons, and not they against him. 
And could right prevail against might, he would as certainly lose his head, as ever king Charles
the First did."

Colonel Watson could hardly keep his chair under the smart of this speech: but thinking it
would never do for a British colonel to be rude to a lady, he filled her glass, and saying,
"he'd be d--n-d if she were not a very plain-spoken woman at any rate," insisted she would
drink a toast with him for all.

She replied she had no objection.

Then filling the glasses round, he looked at her with a constrained smile, and said, "Well,
madam, here's George the Third."

"With all my heart, sir!" and turned off her bumper with a good grace.

