    "But ye shall not think that I will speak of the popish pilgrimages,
    which we were wont to use in times past, in running hither and thither
    to Mr. John Shorn or to our Lady of Walsingham."

On which the editor, the Rev. G. E. Corrie, remarks that he was--

    "A saint whose head quarters were probably in the parish of Shorn and
    Merston near Gravesend, but who seems to have had shrines in other
    parts of the country. He was chiefly popular with persons who suffered
    from ague."

Mr. Corrie then gives an extract from p. 218. of the Letters relating to the Suppression of
Monasteries, edited by Mr. Wright for the Camden Society; but we quote from the original, Mr.
Corrie having omitted the words given in our extract in Italics:--

    "At Merston, Mr. Johan Schorn stondith blessing a bote, whereunto they
    do say he conveyd the devill. He ys moch sowzt for the agou. If it be
    your lordeschips pleasur, I schall sett that botyd ymage in a nother
    place, and so do wyth other in other parties wher lyke seeking ys."

In that extraordinary poem The Fantassie of Idolatrie, printed by Fox in his edition of 1563,
but not afterwards reprinted until it appeared in Seeley's edition (vol. v. p. 406.), we read--

 "To Maister John Shorne
  That blessed man borne;
    For the ague to him we apply,
  Whiche jugeleth with a bote
  I beschrewe his herte rote
    That will truste him, and it be I."

The editor, Mr. Cattley, having explained bote "a recompense or fee," Dr. Maitland, in his
Remarks on Rev. S. R. Cattley's Defence of his Edition of Fox's Martyrology, p. 46., after
making a reference to Nares, and quoting his explanation, proceeds:

    "The going on pilgrimage to St. John Shorne is incidentally mentioned
    at pages 232. and 580. of the FOURTH volume of Fox, but in a way which
    throws no light on the subject. The verse which I have quoted seems as
    if there was some relic which was supposed to cure the ague, and by
    which the juggle was carried on. Now another passage in this same fifth
    volume, p. 468., leads me to believe that this relic really was, and
    therefore the word 'bote' simply means, a boot. In this passage we
    learn, that one of the causes of Robert Testwood's troyble was his
    ridiculing the relics which were to be distributed to be borne by
    various persons in a procession upon a relic Sunday. St. George's
    dagger having been given to one Master Hake, Testwood said to Dr.
    Clifton,--'Sir, Master Hake hath St. George's dagger. Now if he had his
    horse, and St. Martin's cloak, and Master John Shorne's boots, with
    King Harry's spurs and his hat, he might ride when he list.'"

That there is some legend connected with Master John Shorne and "his bote, whereunto they do
say he conveyd the devill," is evident from {388} a fact we learn from the Proceedings of the
Archæological Institute, namely, that at the meeting on the 5th Nov. 1847, the Rev. James Bulwer,
of Aylsham, Norfolk, sent a series of drawings exhibiting the curious painted decorations of
the rood screen in Cawston Church, Norfolk, amongst which appears the singular saintly personage
bearing a boot, from which issues a demon. An inscription beneath the figures gives the name
"Magister Johannes Schorn." It is much to be regretted that fuller details of this painting
have not been preserved in the Journal of the Institute.

The earliest mention of Master John Schorne is in the indenture for roofing St. George's Chapel
at Windsor, dated 5th June, 21 Henry VII. (1506), printed in the Reliquiæ Antiquæ, vol. ii.
p. 115., where it is covenanted

    "That the creastes, corses, beastes, above on the outsides of Maister
    John Shorne's Chappell, bee done and wrought according to the other
    creastes, and comprised within the said bargayne."

WILLIAM J. THOMS.

       *       *       *       *       *

CORRIGENDA OF PRINTER'S ERRORS.

In my note on Conjectural Emendation (Vol. ii., p. 322.), your printer, in general so very
correct, has by a fortunate accident strengthened my argument, by adding one letter, and taking
away another. Should my note be in existence, you will find that I wrote distinctly and correctly
Mr. Field's prænomen Barron, and not Baron. And I have too much respect for my old favourite,
honest George Wither, to have written Withers, a misnomer never used but by his adversaries,
who certainly did speak of him as "one Withers." I should not have thought it necessary to
notice these insignificant errata, but for the purpose of showing Printer's errors do and will
occur, and that Shakspeare's text may often be amended by their correction. You will recollect
honest George's punning inscription round his juvenile portrait:

    "I GROW AND WITHER BOTH TOGETHER."

PERIERGUS BIBLIOPHILUS.

       *       *       *       *       *

FOLK LORE OF WALES.

No. 3. Meddygon Myddvai.--On the heights of the Black Mountains, in Caermarthenshire, lies
a dark-watered lake, known by the name of Lyn y Van Vach. As might be predicated, from the
wild grandeur of its situation, as well as from the ever-changing hues which it takes from
the mountain shadows, many a superstition--gloomy or beautiful--is connected with its history.
Amongst these may be reckoned the legend of the Meddygon Myddvai or "surgeons of Myddvai."
Tradition affirms that "once upon a time" a man who dwelt in the parish of Myddvai led his
lambs to graze on the borders of this lake; a proceeding which he was induced to repeat in
consequence of his visits being celebrated by the appearance of three most beautiful nymphs,
who, rising from the waters of the lake, frequently came on shore, and wandered about amongst
his flock. On his endeavouring, however, to catch or retain these nymphs, they fled to the
lake and sank into its depths, singing--

 "Cras dy fara,
  Anhawdd ein dala!"

which may be rendered [eater of] "hard baked bread, it is difficult to retain us!" Difficulties,
however, but increased the determination of the shepherd; and day after day he watched beside
the haunted lake, until at length his perseverance was rewarded by the discovery of a substance
resembling unbaked bread, which floated on the water: this he fished up and ate, and on the
following day he succeeded in capturing the nymphs: on which he requested one of them to become
his wife; to this she consented, on condition that he should be able to distinguish her from
her sisters on the following day. This was no easy task, as the nymphs bore the most striking
resemblance to each other; but the lover noticed some trifling peculiarity in the dress of
his choice, by means of which he identified her. She then assured him that she would be to
him as good a wife as any earthly maiden could be, until he should strike her three times without
a cause. This was deemed by the shepherd an impossible contingency, and he led his bride in
triumph from the mountain; followed by seven cows, two oxen, and one bull, which she had summoned
from the waters of the lake to enrich her future home.

Many years passed happily on, and three smiling children--afterwards the "surgeons of Myddvai"--blessed
the shepherd and his Undine-like bride; but at length, on requesting her to go to the field
and catch his horse, she replied that she would do so presently; when striking her arm three
times he exclaimed, Dôs, dôs, dôs; Go, go, go. This was more than a free dweller in the waters
could brook; so calling her ten head of cattle to follow her, she fled to the lake, and once
more plunged beneath its waters.

Such is the legend; of which reason vainly expresses its disbelief, as long as the eye of faith
can discern physical proofs of its truth in the deep furrow which, crossing the mountain in
detached portions, terminates abruptly in the lake; for it seems that when the two oxen were
summoned by their mistress, they were ploughing in the field; and at their departure, they
carried the plough with them, and dragged it into the lake.

The nymph once more appeared upon the earth; for as her sons grew to manhood, she met them
{389} one day in a place which, from this circumstance, received the name of Cwm Meddygon,
and delivered to each of them a bag, containing such mysterious revelations in the science
of medicine, that they became greater in the art than were ever any before them.

Though so curiously connected with this fable, the "surgeons of Myddvai" are supposed to be
historical personages, who, according to a writer in the Cambro-Briton, flourished in the thirteenth
century, and left behind them a MS. treatise on their practice, of which several fragments
and imperfect copies are still preserved.

No. 4. Trwyn Pwcca.--Many years ago, there existed in a certain part of Monmouthshire a Pwcca,
or fairy, which, like a faithful English Brownie, performed innumerable services for the farmers
and householders in its neighbourhood, more especially that of feeding the cattle, and cleaning
their sheds in wet weather; until at length some officious person, considering such practices
as unchristian proceedings, laid the kindly spirit for three generations, banishing him to
that common receptacle for such beings--the Red Sea. The spot in which he disappeared obtained
the name of Trwyn Pwcca (Fairy's nose); and as the three generations have nearly passed away,
the approaching return of the Pwcca is anxiously looked forward to in its vicinity, as an earnest
of the "good time coming."

The form which tradition assigns to this Pwcca, is that of a handful of loose dried grass rolling
before the wind (such as is constantly seen on moors); a circumstance which recalls to mind
the Pyrenean legend of the spirit of the Lord of Orthez, mentioned by Miss Costello, which
appeared as two straws moving on the floor. Query, Has the name of "Will o' the Wisp" any connexion
with the supposed habit of appearing in this form?

SELEUCUS.

       *       *       *       *       *

CONNEXION OF WORDS--THE WORD "FREIGHT."

The word employed to denote freight, or rather the price of freight, at this day in the principal
ports of the Mediterranean, is nolis, nolo, &c. In the Arabian and Indian ports, the word universally
employed to denote the same meaning is nol. Are these words identical, and can their connexion
be traced? When we consider the extensive commerce of the Phoenicians, both in the Mediterranean
and Indian seas, that they were the great merchants and carriers of antiquity, and that, in
the words of Hieron, "their numerous fleets were scattered over the Indian and Atlantic oceans;
and the Tyrian pennant waved at the same time on the coasts of Britain and on the shores of
Ceylon"--it is natural to look to that country as the birthplace of the word, whence it may
have been imported, westward to Europe, and eastward to India, by the same people. And we find
that it is a pure Arabic word, [Arabic: nwl] nawil and [Arabic: nwln] nawlun, or nol and nolan,
both signifying freight (price of carriage), from the root [Arabic: nwh] noh, pretium dedit,
donum. I am not aware that the word freight (not used in the sense of cargo or merchandise,
but as the price of carriage of the merchandise, merces pro vectura) is to be found in the
Old Testament, otherwise some light might be thrown on the matter by a reference to the cognate
Hebrew word.

But here an interesting question presents itself. The word freight in Greek is [Greek: naulos]
or [Greek: naulon], and in Latin naulum. Have these any connexion with the Arabic word, or
are they to be traced to an independent source, and the coincidence in sense and sound with
the Arabic merely accidental? If distinct, are the words now in use in the Mediterranean ports
derived from the Greek or the Arabic? If the words be not identical, may not the Greek be derived
from the Sanscrit, thus [Sanskrit: nau], nau, or in the pure form [Sanskrit: nawah], nawah,
or resolved, naus, a ship or boat; [Sanskrit: nauyayin], nauyáyin quasi nouyáyil, or abbreviated
naul, that which goes into a ship or boat, i.e. freight, fare, or, by metonyme, the price of
freight, or passage-money. It is to be noted that nolis, though in general use in the Mediterranean
ports (Marseilles, for example) to denote the price of freight, or of carriage, is not so in
the northern parts of France. At Havre the word is frêt, the same as our freight, the German
fracht, viz. that which is carried or ferried, and, by metonyme, as before, the price of carriage.

J. SH.

Bombay.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Notes.

Smith's Obituary.--One of the publications of the Camden Society for the year 1849 is the Obituary
of Richard Smyth (extending from 1627 to 1674), edited by Sir Henry Ellis. It is printed from
a copy of the Sloane MS. in the Brit. Mus., No. 886., which is itself but a transcript, later
than Smyth's time. The editor states that "where the original manuscript of the obituary is
deposited is not at present known."

I am glad at being able to supply the information here wanted. The original manuscript is in
the University Library at Cambridge, marked Mm. 4. 36. It consists of twenty-nine leaves, foolscap
folio; and, except that the edges and corners of the leaves are occasionally worn by frequent
perusal, is otherwise in excellent condition. It is well and clearly written, but the latter
part of it marks the alteration of the hand by the advancing years of the writer. There are
many variations in {390} the orthography, and some omissions, in the Camden Society's publication,
but perhaps not more than may be accounted for by supposing the Sloane copy to have been made
by a not very careful transcriber.

Here again is seen the valuable use which might be made of your excellent publication. Had
a "Hue and Cry" been made in the "NOTES AND QUERIES" after the original MS. of this obituary,
information might have been immediately given which would have added greatly to the value of
this number of the Camden Society's publications.

GASTROS.

Cambridge, Oct. 28. 1850.

George Wither the Poet, A Printer.--In the "Premonition to the Reader" prefixed to George Wither's
Britain's Remembrancer, 12mo. 1628, the author acquaints us with some circumstances relative
to his work which are not generally known. While craving some apology for his writing, Wither
observes:

    "It is above two years since I laboured to get this booke printed, and
    it hath cost me more money, more pains, and much more time to publish
    it, than to compose it, for I was faine to imprint every sheet thereof
    with my owne hand, because I could not get allowance to doe it
    publikely."

EDWARD F. RIMBAULT.

Corruption of the Text of Gibbon's "Decline and Fall."--A corruption, which seems to have arisen
from an attempt at emendation, has crept into Note 17. on the 55th chapter of Gibbon's History.
Root is twice printed instead of roof in the later editions, including, Mr. Milman's. "What
comes from the roof," may not be very intelligible; still roof is the word in the original
edition of Gibbon, where it corresponds to toit in Gibbon's authority, Fleury, and to tectum
in Fleury's authority.

J. E. B. MAYOR.

Traditional Story concerning Cardinal Wolsey.--In David Hughson (Dr. Pugh's) Walks through
London and the surrounding Suburbs, 12mo. 1817, vol. ii. p. 366., I find the following:--

    "Passing on to Cheshunt: here is a plain brick edifice, in which
    Cardinal Wolsey is said to have resided. It has been nearly rebuilt
    since his time, but is still surrounded by a deep moat. In the upper
    part of this house, called Cheshunt House, is a room, the door of which
    is stained with blood: the tradition is--an unfortunate lady became a
    victim to the Cardinal's jealousy, and that he dispatched her with his
    own hand. If so, it is unaccountable that the murderer should have
    suffered those marks of his violence to have remained."

Is there any old authority for this charge against the Cardinal?

EDWARD F. RIMBAULT.

       *       *       *       *       *

Queries.

EARLY SALE OF GEMS, DRAWINGS, AND CURIOSITIES.

At the risk of showing my ignorance, I wish to have it removed by answers to my present Queries.

I have before me a printed catalogue of a collection of antiques, drawings, and curiosities,
which were to be sold by auction not far from a century and a half ago. It is upon a sheet
of four pages, rather larger than foolscap, which it entirely fills. It seems to me a remarkable
assemblage of valuable relics, and it is thus headed:--

    "A catalogue, being an extraordinary and great collection of antiques,
    original drawings, and other curiosities, collected by a gentleman very
    curious ... will be sold by auction at Covent Garden Coffee House, in
    the Little Piazza, on Wednesday next, being the 9th instant June,
    1714."

This is the oldest English catalogue of the kind that I happen to have met with, and my first
question upon it is, is there any older? Next, if the fact be known, who was the "gentleman
very curious" who owned the collection?

We are farther informed by the auctioneer (whose name is not given), that "The antiques are
all in precious stones, most of them engraved by the greatest masters of the old Greeks and
Romans; the drawings are of the oldest and the best Italian masters;" and it is advertised,
besides, that "the aforesaid rarities may be seen on Monday the 7th, Tuesday the 8th, and Wednesday
till the time of sale, which will begin at 11 o'clock in the morning for the antiques, and
at 6 o'clock in the evening for the drawings." After a statement that the "conditions of sale
are as usual," we come to the list of the gems, under the heads of "Names of the Jewels," and
"What they represent." There are fifty-one lots of those that are "set in silver for seals,"
and they are upon cornelian, beril, sardonix, jasper, &c. For the purpose of identification
(if possible) I will quote two or three:--

 "3. Sardonix--The head of Anacreon.
  17. Cornelian--Pallas crowning Hercules.
  30. Beryl--The Trojan Horse, as in Fortuna Lyceto.
  51. A cornelian ring, with the head of Lais of Corinth, engraved by Mr.
      Christian."

To these succeed twelve lots of "stones not set," including a "Head of Christ," a "Gadetian
Droll," the "Entry of Severus, the Emperor, into Britain," &c. Then we come to 22. "Camejus,
for the most part modern;" and to 10. "Other extraordinary Rarities," including

  4. "The Picture of Mathew of Leyden, King of the Anabaptists, done in
      miniature by Holbein.
  7. A box with 8 Calcedonies set in gold, in which are engraved the
      Passion of our Saviour," &c.

{391}

The "antiques set in gold, being rings or seals," are thirty-seven in number; among them

 "8. Ennius the poet, with this motto, Sine lucto memento, a seal.
 "19. Homer deified, a seal.
 "34. A double seal of Charles I., King of England, and Henrietta, daughter
     of Henry IV. of France, &c., with a motto of Castus Amor vinxit.
     Engraved by Simon Monuntum Preclarissimum."

