I now learned the history of this singular man. He was descended from a good family of Marseilles.
Destined for the navy while still young, he was sent on board ship before the Revolution, and
while yet of tender years. Later, he was taken prisoner; and after many strange adventures,
returned in 1793 to France: was about to marry, but having been mixed up with the disturbances
of Toulon, managed to escape by a miracle to England; and learned before long that his father,
mother, one brother, a sister of sixteen years of age, and his betrothed, had all been led
to the guillotine to the tune of the Marseillaise. Thirst for revenge, revenge on the detested
Jacobins, was now his sole aim. For a long time he roved about in the Indian seas, sometimes
as a privateer, at others as a slave-dealer; and was said to have caused the tricoloured flag
much damage, while he acquired a considerable fortune for himself. With the return of the Bourbons,
he came back to France, and settled at Marseilles. He lived, however, very retired, and employed
his large fortune solely for the poor, for distressed seamen, and for the clergy. Alms and
masses were his only objects of expense. It may easily be believed, that he acquired no small
degree of popularity among the lower classes and the clergy. But, strangely enough, when not
at church, he spent his time with the most celebrated fencing-masters, and had acquired in
the use of the pistol and the sword a dexterity that was hardly to be paralleled. In the year
1815, when the royalist reaction broke out in La Vendée, he roved about for a long time at
the head of a band of followers. When at last this opportunity of cooling his rage was taken
from him by the return of order, he looked out for some victim who was known to him by his
revolutionary principles, and sought to provoke him to combat. The younger, the richer, the
happier the chosen victim was, the more desirable did he seem. The landlord told me he himself
knew of seven young persons who had fallen before his redoubted sword.

The next morning at five o'clock, I was at the house of this singular character. He lived on
the ground-floor, in a small simple room, where, excepting a large crucifix, and a picture
covered with black crape, with the date, 1794, under it, the only ornaments were some nautical
instruments, a trombone, and a human skull. The picture was the portrait of his guillotined
bride; it remained always veiled, excepting only when he had slaked his revenge with blood;
then he uncovered it for eight days, and indulged himself in the sight. The skull was that
of his mother. His bed consisted of the usual hammock slung from the ceiling. When I entered,
he was at his devotions, and a little negro brought me meanwhile a cup of chocolate and a cigar.
When he had risen from his knees, he saluted me in a friendly manner, as if we were merely
going for a morning walk together; afterwards he opened a closet, took out of it a case with
a pair of English pistols, and a couple of excellent swords, which I put under my arm; and
thus provided, we proceeded along the quay towards the port. The boatmen seemed all to know
him. 'Peter, your boat!' He seated himself in the stern.

'You will have the goodness to row,' he said; 'I will take the tiller, so that my hand may
not become unsteady.'

I took off my coat, rowed away briskly, and as the wind was favourable, we hoisted a sail,
and soon reached Cap Verd. We could remark from afar our three young men, who were sitting
at breakfast in a garden not far from the shore. This was the garden of a restaurateur, and
was the favourite resort of the inhabitants of Marseilles. Here you find excellent fish; and
also, in high perfection, the famous bollenbresse, a national dish in Provence, as celebrated
as the olla podrida of Spain. How many a love-meeting has occurred in this place! But this
time it was not Love that brought the parties together, but Hate, his stepbrother; and in Provence
the one is as ardent, quick, and impatient as the other.

My business was soon accomplished. It consisted in asking the young men what weapons they chose,
and with which of them the duel was to be fought. The dark-haired youth--his name was M----
L---- insisted that he alone should settle the business, and his friends were obliged to give
their word not to interfere.

'You are too stout,' he said to the one, pointing to his portly figure; 'and you'--to the other--'are
going to be married; besides, I am a first-rate hand with the sword. However, I will not take
advantage of my youth and strength, but will choose the pistol, unless the gentleman yonder
prefers the sword.'

A movement of convulsive joy animated the face of my old captain: 'The sword is the weapon
of the French gentleman,' he said; 'I shall be happy to die with it in my hand.'

'Be it so. But your age?'

'Never mind; make haste, and en garde.'

It was a strange sight: the handsome young man on one side, overbearing confidence in his look,
with his youthful form, full of grace and suppleness; and opposite him that long figure, half
naked--for his blue shirt was furled up from his sinewy arm, and his broad, scarred breast
was entirely bare. In the old man, every sinew was like iron wire: his whole weight resting
on his left hip, the long arm--on which, in sailor fashion, a red cross, three lilies, and
other marks, were tattooed--held out before him, and the cunning, murderous gaze rivetted on
his adversary.

''Twill be but a mere scratch,' said one of the three friends to me. I made no reply, but was
convinced beforehand that my captain, who was an old practitioner, would treat the matter more
seriously. Young L----, whose perfumed coat was lying near, appeared to me to be already given
over to corruption. He began the attack, advancing quickly. This confirmed me in my opinion;
for although he might be a practised fencer in the schools, this was proof that he could not
frequently have been engaged in serious combat, or he would not have rushed forwards so incautiously
against an adversary whom he did not as yet know. His opponent profited by his ardour, and
retired step by step, and at first only with an occasional ward and half thrust. Young L----,
getting hotter and hotter, grew flurried; while every ward of his adversary proclaimed, by
its force and exactness, the master of the art of fence. At length the young man made a lunge;
the captain parried it with a powerful movement, and, before L---- could recover his position,
made a thrust in return, his whole body falling forward as he did so, exactly like a picture
at the Académie des Armes--'the hand elevated, the leg stretched out'--and his sword went through
his antagonist, for nearly half its length, just under the shoulder. The captain made an almost
imperceptible turn with his hand, and in an instant was again en garde. L---- felt himself
wounded; he let his sword fall, while with his other hand he pressed his side; his eyes grew
dim, and he sank into the arms of his friends. The captain wiped his sword carefully, gave
it to me, and dressed himself with the most perfect composure. 'I have the honour to wish you
good-morning, gentlemen: had you not sung yesterday, you would not have had to weep to-day;'
and thus saying, he went towards his boat. ''Tis the seventeenth!' he murmured; 'but this was
easy work--a mere greenhorn from the fencing-schools of Paris. 'Twas a very different thing
when I had to do with the old Bonapartist officers, those brigands of the Loire.' But it is
quite impossible to translate into another language the fierce energy of this speech. Arrived
at the port, he threw the boatman a few pieces of silver, saying: 'Here, Peter; here's something
for you.'

'Another requiem and a mass for a departed soul, at the church of St Géneviève--is it not so,
captain? But that is a matter of course.' And soon after we reached the dwelling of the captain.

The little negro brought us a cold pasty, oysters, and two bottles of vin d'Artois. 'Such a
walk betimes gives an appetite,' said the captain gaily. 'How strangely things fall out!' he
continued in a serious tone. 'I have long wished to draw the crape veil from before that picture,
for you must know I only deem myself worthy to do so when I have sent some Jacobin or Bonapartist
into the other world, to crave pardon from that murdered angel; and so I went yesterday to
the coffee-house with my old friend the abbé, whom I knew ever since he was field-preacher
to the Chouans, in the hope of finding a victim for the sacrifice among the readers of the
liberal journals. The confounded waiters, however, betray my intention; and when I am there,
nobody will ask for a radical paper. When you appeared, my worthy friend, I at first thought
I had found the right man, and I was impatient--for I had been waiting for more than three
hours for a reader of the National or of Figaro. How glad I am that I at once discovered you
to be no friend of such infamous papers! How grieved should I be, if I had had to do with you
instead of with that young fellow!' For my part, I was in no mood even for self-felicitations.
At that time, I was a reckless young fellow, going through the conventionalisms of society
without a thought; but the event of the morning had made even me reflect.

'Do you think he will die, captain?' I asked: 'is the wound mortal?'

'For certain!' he replied with a slight smile. 'I have a knack--of course for Jacobins and
Bonapartists only--when I thrust en quarte, to draw out the sword by an imperceptible movement
of the hand, en tierce, or vice versâ, according to circumstances; and thus the blade turns
in the wound--and that kills; for the lung is injured, and mortification is sure to follow.'

On returning to my hotel, where L---- also was staying, I met the physician, who had just visited
him. He gave up all hope. The captain spoke truly, for the slight movement of the hand and
the turn of the blade had accomplished their aim, and the lung was injured beyond the power
of cure. The next morning early L---- died. I went to the captain, who was returning home with
the abbé. 'The abbé has just been to read a mass for him,' he said; 'it is a benefit which,
on such occasions, I am willing he should enjoy--more, however, from friendship for him, than
out of pity for the accursed soul of a Jacobin, which in my eyes is worth less than a dog's!
But walk in, sir.'

The picture, a wonderfully lovely maidenly face, with rich curls falling around it, and in
the costume of the last ten years of the preceding century, was now unveiled. A good breakfast,
like that of yesterday, stood on the table. With a moistened eye, and turning to the portrait,
he said: 'Thérèse, to thy memory!' and emptied his glass at a draught. Surprised and moved,
I quitted the strange man. On the stairs of the hotel I met the coffin, which was just being
carried up for L----; and I thought to myself: 'Poor Clotilde! you will not be able to weep
over his grave.'

THE TREE OF SOLOMON.

    Wide forests, deep beneath Maldivia's tide,
    From withering air the wondrous fruitage hide;
    There green-haired nereids tend the bowery dells,
    Whose healing produce poison's rage expels.

    The Lusiad.

If Japan be still a sealed book, the interior of China almost unknown, the palatial temple
of the Grand Lama unvisited by scientific or diplomatic European--to say nothing of Madagascar,
the steppes of Central Asia, and some of the islands of the Eastern Archipelago--how great
an amount of marvel and mystery must have enveloped the countries of the East during the period
that we now term the middle ages! By a long and toilsome overland journey, the rich gold and
sparkling gems, the fine muslins and rustling silks, the pungent spices and healing drugs of
the Morning Land, found their way to the merchant princes of the Mediterranean. These were
not all. The enterprising traversers of the Desert brought with them, also, those tales of
extravagant fiction which seem to have ever had their birthplace in the prolific East. Long
after the time that doubt--in not a few instances the parent of knowledge--had, by throwing
cold water on it, extinguished the last funeral pyre of the ultimate Phoenix, and laughed to
scorn the gigantic, gold-grubbing pismires of Pliny; the Roc, the Valley of Diamonds, the mountain
island of Loadstone, the potentiality of the Talisman, the miraculous virtues of certain drugs,
and countless other fables, were accepted and believed by all the nations of the West. One
of those drugs, seldom brought to Europe on account of its great demand among the rulers of
the East, and its extreme rarity, was a nut of alleged extraordinary curative properties--of
such great value, that the Hindoo traders named it Trevanchere, or the Treasure--of such potent
virtue, that Christians united with Mussulmen in terming it the Nut of Solomon. Considered
a certain remedy for all kinds of poison, it was eagerly purchased by those of high station
at a period when that treacherous destroyer so frequently mocked the steel-clad guards of royalty
itself--when poisoning was the crime of the great, before it had descended from the corrupt
and crafty court to the less ceremonious cottage. Nor was it only as an antidote that its virtues
were famed. A small portion of its hard and corneous kernel, triturated with water in a vessel
of porphyry, and mixed, according to the nature of the disease and skill of the physician,
with the powder of red or white coral, ebony, or stag's horns, was supposed to be able to put
to flight all the maladies that are the common lot of suffering humanity. Even the simple act
of drinking pure water out of a part of its polished shell was esteemed a salutary remedial
process, and was paid for at a correspondently extravagant price. Doubtless, in many instances
it did effect cures; not, however, by any peculiar inherent sanative property, but merely through
the unbounded confidence of the patient: similar cases are well known to medical science; and
at the present day, when the manufacture and sale of an alleged universal heal-all is said
to be one of the shortest and surest paths that lead to fortune--when in our own country 'the
powers that be' encourage rather than check such wholesale empiricism--we cannot consistently
condemn the more ancient quack, who having, in all faith, given an immense sum for a piece
of nut-shell, remunerated himself by selling draughts of water out of it to his believing dupes.
The extraordinary history of the nut, as it was then told, assisted to keep up the delusion.
The Indian merchants said, that there was only one tree in the world that produced it; that
the roots of that tree were fixed, 'where never fathom-line did touch the ground,' in the bed
of the Indian Ocean, near to Java, among the Ten Thousand Islands of the far East; but its
branches, rising high above the waters, flourished in the bright sunshine and free air. On
the topmost bough dwelt a griffin, that sallied forth every evening to the adjacent islands,
to procure an elephant or rhinoceros for its nightly repast; but when a ship chanced to pass
that way, his griffinship had no occasion to fly so far for a supper. Attracted by the tree,
the doomed vessel remained motionless on the waters, until the wretched sailors were, one by
one, devoured by the monster. When the nuts ripened, they dropped off into the water, and,
carried by winds and currents to less dangerous localities, were picked up by mariners, or
cast on some lucky shore. What is this but an Eastern version--who dare say it is not the original?--of
the more classical fable of the dragon and the golden fruit of the Hesperides?

Time went on. The Portuguese, who encountered the terrors of the Cape of Storms, were not likely
to be daunted by a griffin; yet, with all their endeavours, they never succeeded in discovering
the precious tree. By their exertions, however, rather more of the drug was brought to Europe
than had previously been; still there was no reduction in its estimated value. In the East,
an Indian potentate demanded a ship and her cargo as the price of a perfect nut, and it was
actually purchased on the terms; in the West, the Emperor Rodolph offered 4000 florins for
one, and his offer was contemptuously refused; while invalids from all parts of Europe performed
painful pilgrimages to Venice, Lisbon, or Antwerp, to enjoy the inestimable benefit of drinking
water out of pieces of nut-shell! Who may say what adulterations and tricks were practised
by dishonest dealers, to maintain a supply of this costly medicine? but, as similar impositions
are not unknown at the present day, we may as well pass lightly over that part of our subject.

The English and Dutch next made their way to the Indian Ocean; yet, though they sought for
the invaluable Tree of Solomon, with all the energy supplied by a burning thirst for gain,
their efforts were as fruitless and unsuccessful as those of the Portuguese. Strange tales,
too, some of these ancient mariners related on their return to Europe: how, in the clear waters
of deep bays, they had observed groves of those marvellous trees, growing fathoms down beneath
the surface of the placid sea. Out of a mass of equally ridiculous reports, the only facts
then attainable were at length sifted: these were, that the tree had not been discovered growing
in any locality whatever; that the nut was sometimes found floating on the Indian Ocean, or
thrown on the coast of Malabar, but more frequently picked up on the shores of a group of islands
known as the Maldives; from the latter circumstance, the naturalists of the day termed it Cocus
Maldivicus--the Maldivian cocoa-nut. Garcius, surnamed Ab Horto (of the garden), on account
of his botanical knowledge, a celebrated authority on drugs and spices, who wrote in 1563,
very sensibly concluded that the tree grew on some undiscovered land, from whence the nuts
were carried by the waves to the places where they were found; other writers considered it
to be a genuine marine production; while a few shrewdly suspected that it really grew on the
Maldives. Unfortunately for the Maldivians, this last opinion prevailed in India. In 1607,
the king of Bengal, with a powerful fleet and army, invaded the Maldives, conquered and killed
their king, ransacked and plundered the islands, and, having crammed his ships with an immense
booty, sailed back to Bengal--without, however, discovering the Tree of Solomon, the grand
object of the expedition. Curiously enough, we are indebted to this horrible invasion for an
interesting book of early Eastern travel--the Bengalese king having released from captivity
one Pyrard de Laval, a French adventurer, who, six years previously, had suffered shipwreck
on those inhospitable islands. Laval's work dispelled the idea that the nut grew upon the Maldives.
He tells us, that it was found floating in the surf, or thrown up on the sea-shore only; that
it was royal property; and whenever discovered, carried with great ceremony to the king, a
dreadful death being the penalty of any subject possessing the smallest portion of it.

The leading naturalists of the seventeenth century having the Maldives thus, in a manner, taken
away from beneath their feet, took great pains to invent a local habitation for this wonderful
tree; and at last they, pretty generally, came to the conclusion, that the vast peninsula of
Southern Hindostan had at one time extended as far as the Maldives, but by some great convulsion
of nature, the intermediate part between those islands and Cape Comorin had sunk beneath the
waters of the ocean; that the tree or trees had grown thereon, and still continued to grow
on the submerged soil; and the nuts when ripe, being lighter than water, rose to the surface,
instead--as is the habit of supermarine arboreal produce--of falling to the ground. Scarcely
could a more splendid illustration of the fallacies of hypothetical reasoning be found, than
the pages that contain this specious and far-fetched argument. Even the celebrated Rumphius,
who wrote so late as the eighteenth century, assures his readers that 'the Calappa laut,' the
Malay term for the nut, 'is not a terrestrial production, which may have fallen by accident
into the sea, and there become hardened, as Garcias ab Horto relates, but a fruit, growing
itself in the sea, whose tree has hitherto been concealed from the eye of man.' He also denominates
it 'the wonderful miracle of nature, the prince of all the many rare things that are found
in the sea.'

In the fulness of time, knowledge is obtained and mysteries are revealed. Chemistry and medicine,
released from the tedious but not useless apprenticeship they had served to alchemy and empiricism,
set up on their own account, and as a consequence, the 'nut of the sea' soon lost its European
reputation as a curative, though it was still considered a very great curiosity, and the unsettled
problem of its origin formed a famous stock of building materials for the erecters of theoretical
edifices. In India and China, it retained its medicinal fame, and commanded a high price. Like
everything else that is brought to market, the nuts varied in value. A small one would not
realise more than L.50, while a large one would be worth L.120; those, however, that measured
as much in breadth as in length were most esteemed, and one measuring a foot in diameter was
worth L.150 sterling money. Such continued to be the prices of these nuts for two centuries
after the ships of Europe had first found their way to the seas and lands of Asia. But a change
was at hand. In the year 1770, a French merchant-ship entered the port of Calcutta. The motley
assemblage of native merchants and tradesmen, Baboos and Banians, Dobashes, Dobies, and Dingy-wallahs,
that crowd a European vessel's deck on her first arrival in an Eastern port, were astounded
when, to their eager inquiries, the captain replied that his cargo consisted of cocos de mer.[3]
Scarcely could the incredulous and astonished natives believe the evidence of their own eyesight,
when, on the hatches being opened, they saw that the ship was actually filled with this rare
and precious commodity. Rare and precious, to be so no longer. Its price instantaneously fell;
persons who had been the fortunate possessors of a nut or two, were ruined; and so little did
the French captain gain by his cargo, that he disclosed the secret of its origin to an English
mercantile house, which completed the utter downfall of the nut of Solomon, by landing another
cargo of it at Bombay during the same year.

A singular circumstance in connection with the discovery of the tree, a complete exemplification
of the good old tale, Eyes and no Eyes, is worthy of record, as a lesson to all, that they
should ever make proper use of the organs which God has bestowed upon them for the acquisition
of useful knowledge. Mahé de la Bourdonnais, one of the best and wisest of French colonial
governors, whose name, almost unknown to history, is embalmed for ever in St Pierre's beautiful
romance of Paul and Virginia, sent from the Isle of France, in 1743, a naval officer named
Picault, to explore the cluster of islands now known as the Seychelles. Picault made a pretty
correct survey, and in the course of it discovered some islands previously unknown; one of
these he named Palmiers, on account of the abundance and beauty of the palm-trees that grew
upon it; that was all he knew about them. In 1768, a subsequent governor of the Isle of France
sent out another expedition, under Captain Duchemin, for a similar purpose. Barré, the hydrographer
of this last expedition, landing on Palmiers, at once discovered that the palms, from which
the island had, a quarter of a century previously, received its name, produced the famous and
long-sought-for cocos de mer. Barré informed Duchemin, and the twain kept the secret to themselves.
Immediately after their return to the Isle of France, they fitted out a vessel, sailed to Palmiers,
and having loaded with nuts, proceeded to Calcutta. How their speculation turned out, we have
already related. We should add that Duchemin, in his vain expectation of making an immense
fortune by the discovery, considering that the name of the island might afford future adventurers
a clue to his secret, artfully changed it to Praslin, the name of the then intendant of marine,
which it still retains.

We shall speak no more of the Tree of Solomon; it is the Lodoicea Seychellarum--the double
cocoa-nut of the Seychelles--as modern botanists term it, that we have now to deal with. As
its name implies, it is a palm, and one of the most nobly-graceful of that family, which have
been so aptly styled by Linnæus the princes of the vegetable kingdom. Its straight and rather
slender-looking stem, not more than a foot in diameter, rises, without a leaf, to the height
of from 90 to 100 feet, and at the summit is superbly crowned with a drooping plume, consisting
of about a score of magnificent leaves, of a broadly-oval form. These leaves, the larger of
which are twenty feet in length and ten in width, are beautifully marked with regular folds,
diverging from a central supporting chine; their margins are more or less deeply serrated towards
the extremities; and they are supported by footstalks nearly as long as themselves. Every year
there forms, in the central top of the tree, a new leaf, which, closed like a fan, and defended
by a downy, fawn-coloured covering, shoots up vertically to a height of ten feet, before it,
expanding, droops gracefully, and assumes its place among its elder brethren; and as the imperative
rule pervades all nature, that, in course of time, the eldest must give place unto their juniors,
the senior lowest leaf annually falls withered to the ground, yet leaving a memento of its
existence in a distinct ring or scar upon the parent trunk. It is clear, then, that by the
number of these rings the age of the tree can be accurately determined; some veterans shew
as many as 400, without any visible signs of decay; and it seems that about the age of 130
years, the tree attains its full development.

As in several other members of the palm family, the male and female flowers are found on different
individuals. The female tree, after attaining the age of about thirty years, annually produces
a large drupe or fruit-bunch, consisting of five or six nuts, each enveloped in an external
husk, not dissimilar in form and colour to the coat of the common walnut, but of course much
larger, and proportionably thicker. The nut itself is about a foot in length; of an elliptic
form; at one end obtuse, at the other and narrower end, cleft into two or three, sometimes
even four lobes, of a rounded form on their outsides, but flattened on the inner. It is exceedingly
difficult to give a popular description when encumbered by the technicalities of science; we
must try another method. Let the reader imagine two pretty thick vegetable marrows, each a
foot long, joined together, side by side, and partly flattened by a vertical compression, he
will then have an idea of the curious form of the double cocoa-nut. Sometimes, as we have mentioned,
a nut exhibits three lobes; let the reader imagine the end of one of the marrows cleft in two,
and he will have an idea of the three-lobed nut; and if he imagines two more marrows placed
side by side, and compressed with and on the top of the former two, he will then have an idea
of the four-lobed nut. In fact, almost invariably, the four-lobed nut parts in the middle,
forming two of the more common two-lobed nuts, only distinguishable by the flatness of their
inner sides from those that grew separately. When green, they contain a refreshing, sweetish,
jelly-like substance, but when old, the kernel is so hard that it cannot be cut with a knife.

The enormous fruit-bunches, weighing upwards of fifty pounds, hang three or four years on the
tree before they are sufficiently ripened to fall down; thus, though only one drupe is put
forth each season, yet the produce of three or four years, the aggregate weight of which must
be considerable, burdens the stem at one time. This great weight, suspended at the top of the
lofty and almost disproportionately slender stem, causes the tree to rock gracefully with the
slightest breeze; the agitated leaves creating a pleasing noise, somewhat similar to that of
a distant waterfall. Some French writers have enthusiastically alluded to this rustling sound
as a delightful adjunct of the interesting scene; nor have our English travellers spoken in
less glowing language. 'Growing in thousands,' says Mr Harrison, 'close to each other, the
sexes intermingled, a numerous offspring starting up on all sides, sheltered by the parent
plants, the old ones fallen into the sear and yellow leaf, and going fast to decay to make
room for the young trees, presents to the eye a picture so mild and pleasing, that it is difficult
not to look upon them as animated objects, capable of enjoyment, and sensible of their condition.'

Though no longer producing a drug of great value for the exclusive use of the wealthy, the
double cocoa-nut of the Seychelles affords many humbler benefits to the inhabitants of those
islands. The trunk, when split and cleared of its soft, fibrous interior, serves to make water-troughs
and palisades. The immense leaves are used, in that fine climate, as materials for building:
not only do they make an excellent thatch, but they are also employed for walls. With one hundred
leaves, a commodious dwelling, including doors, windows, and partitions, may be constructed.
Baskets and brooms are made from the ribs of the leaves and the fibres of their footstalks.
The young leaf, previous to its expanding, is soft, and of a pale-yellow colour; in this state
it is cut into longitudinal stripes, and plaited into hats; while the downy substance by which
it is covered, is found valuable for stuffing beds and pillows. Vessels, of various forms and
uses, are made out of the light, strong, and durable nut-shells. When preserved whole, with
merely a perforation at the top, they are used to carry water, some holding nearly three gallons.
When divided, the parts serve, according to their size and shape, for platters, dishes, or
drinking-cups. Being jet-black, and susceptible of a high polish, they are often curiously
carved, and mounted with the precious metals, to form sugar-basins, toilet-dishes, and other
useful and ornamental articles for the dwellings of the tasteful and refined.

The group of islands termed the Seychelles lie to the northward and eastward of Madagascar,
in the latitude of 6 degrees south of the equinoctial. The tree, in its natural state, is found
on three small, rocky, and mountainous islands only--Praslin, containing about 8000 acres;
Curieuse, containing but 1000; and Round Island, smaller still; all three lying within a few
hundred yards of each other. These islands are about 900 miles distant from the Maldives; and
as Garcias ab Horto, in the sixteenth century, supposed, the nuts, many of which grow on rocky
precipices overhanging the sea, drop into the waves, and are transported by the prevailing
currents to other shores. It is a remarkable fact, that the trees will not flourish on any
other of the adjacent islands of the Seychelles group. Many have been planted, but they merely
vegetate, and are wretchedly inferior to the splendid natural trees of Praslin and Curieuse.
From the time that the nut falls from the tree, a year elapses before it germinates; it only
requires to lie on the ground without being covered, for the germ shoots downwards, forming
a root, from which ascends the plumule of the future plant.

Several attempts have been made to grow this tree in some of the larger horticultural establishments
in Great Britain, but hitherto without success. Hopes, however, are now entertained; for the
interesting spectacle of a double cocoa-nut in the act of germination may be witnessed at this
moment in the national gardens at Kew.

FOOTNOTES:

[3] Cocoa-nuts of the sea--the French appellation of the nut.

FALSE POLITICAL ECONOMY.

LEGISLATIVE PROTECTION AGAINST FRAUDS.

There is a proverb full of wisdom--as these brief embodiments of experience often are--to the
effect that in commerce 'the buyer's eye is his merchant.' It has found its way into our legal
text-books, to express a principle which modern law has had much in view--that people should
look to their own skill and knowledge in making their purchases, and should not trust to the
legislature to protect them, by interference and penalties, from purchasing unworthy commodities.
Undoubtedly, fraud, when it occurs, must be punished. If a merchant sell by sample, and intentionally
give a different article--if a dog-dealer clothe a cur in the skin of a departed lap-dog, and
sell him warranted an undoubted Blenheim spaniel--there should be some punishment for the fraud.
It will not be found expedient, however, to go far, even in such clear cases. In too entirely
superseding the buyer's eye, and substituting the judge's, we remove a very vigilant check
on fraud. If people never bought Blenheim spaniels without an ample knowledge of the animal's
character and appearance, followed by minute observation, it would do more to prevent fraud
in this small by-article of commerce than a host of penal statutes.

And when we come to less palpable imperfections in goods, it will be seen that legislation
is quite incapable of coping with them. If every thrifty housewife, whose last bought bushel
of potatoes is more waxy than they ought to be--if every shabby dandy, who has bought a glossy
satin hat, 'warranted superfine, price only 5s.,' and who finds it washed into a kind of dingy
serge by the next shower--had his action for the infliction of penalties, it would be a more
litigious world even than it is. With thimble-riggers, chain-droppers, fortune-telling gipsies,
and the like, the law wages a most unproductive war. Penal statutes and the police do little
to put them down, while there are fools whose silly selfishness or vanity makes them ready
dupes: if these fools would become wise and prudent, all the penalties might be at once dispensed
with. But only imagine the state of litigational confusion in which this country would be plunged,
if every tradesman who sold 'an inferior article,' which had a fair and attractive appearance,
could be subject to penal proceedings!

