The idea that great size in statues is necessarily vulgar, does not seem admissible. It would
be quite as just to condemn the paintings on a colossal scale in which Tintoretto and Veronese
so nobly manifested their exceptional powers. The size of a work of art per se is an indifferent
matter. Mere bigness or mere littleness decides nothing. But a colossal work has its conditions
of being: it must conform to certain laws. It must be executed in a large style; it must represent
a grand idea; it must possess dignity and strength; it must convey the idea of power and majesty;
it must be located in a place where its surroundings shall augment instead of detracting from
its aspect of grandeur; it must be magnificent, for if not it will be ridiculous. The engravings
of Mr. Bartholdi's statue represent a woman clad in a peplum and tunic which fall in ample
folds from waist and shoulder to her feet. The left foot, a trifle advanced supports the main
weight of the body. The right arm is uplifted in a vigorous movement and holds aloft a blazing
torch. The left hand grasps a tablet on which the date of the Declaration of Independence appears;
this is held rather close to the body and at a slight angle from it. The head is that of a
handsome, proud and brave woman. It is crowned by a diadem. The arrangement of the draperies
is, if one may judge from the pictures, a feature of especial excellence in the design. There
is merit in the disposition of the peplum or that portion of the draperies flung back over
the left shoulder, the folds of which hang obliquely (from the left shoulder to the right side
of the waist and thence downward almost to the right knee,) thus breaking up the monotony of
the perpendicular lines formed by the folds of the tunic beneath. The movement of the uplifted
right arm is characterized by a certain elan which, however, does not suggest violence; the
carriage of the head is dignified, and so far as one may judge from a variety of prints, the
face is fine in its proportions and expression. I do not find the movement of the uplifted
arm violent, and, on the whole, am inclined to believe the composition a very good one in its
main features. There will be an undeniable heaviness in the great masses of drapery, especially
as seen from behind, but the illusion as to the size of the figure created by its elevation
on a pedestal and foundation nearly twice as high as itself may do much towards obviating this
objection. Seen from the deck of a steamer at a distance say of a quarter of a mile, the horizon,
formed by the roofs, towers, spires and chimneys of three cities, will not appear higher than
the lower half of the pedestal. In other words the statue will neither be dwarfed nor magnified
by the contiguity of any discordant objects. It will stand alone. The abstract idea, as has
been said, is noble. The plan of utilizing the statue as a lighthouse at night does not detract
from its worth in this respect; it may be said to even emphasize the allegorial sense of the
work. "Liberty enlightening the world," lights the way of the sailor in the crowded harbor
of the second commercial city of the world. The very magnitude of the work typifies, after
a manner, the vast extent of our country, and the audacity of the scheme is not inappropriate
in the place where it is to stand. It may be, indeed, that when the statue is set up, we shall
find it awkward and offensive, as some critics have already prophecied: but that it must be
so inevitably does not appear to me to be a logical deduction from the information we have
at hand as to the artist and his plans. It is freely admitted that no modern work of this nature
has been successful, but that does not prove that this must absolutely be a failure. The project
ought not to be condemned in advance because of the great difficulties surrounding it, its
unequalled scope and its novelty. Mr. Bartholdi is above all ingenious, bold, and fertile in
resources; it would be a great pity not to have him allowed every opportunity to carry out
a design in which, as we have seen, there are so many elements of interest and even of grandeur.
It has been said that "there does not exist on French soil such a bombastic work as this will
be." Very well; admitting for the sake of argument that it will be bombastic, shall we reject
and condemn a colossal statue before having seen it, because there is nothing like it in France?
And is it true that it will be bomastic? That is by no means demonstrated. On the contrary
an impartial examination of the design would show that the work has been seriously conceived
and thought out; that it does not lack dignity; that it is intended to be full of spirit and
significance. It would be the part of wisdom at least to avoid dogmatism in an advance judgment
as to its worth as a work of art, and to wait awhile before pronouncing a final verdict.

Hazlitt tells of a conceited English painter who went to Rome, and when he got into the Sistine
Chapel, turning to his companion, said, "Egad, George, we're bit!" Our own tendency is, because
of our ignorance, to be sceptical and suspicious as to foreign works of art, especially of
a kind that are novel and daring. No one is so hard to please as a simpleton. We are so afraid
of being taken in, that we are reluctant to commit ourselves in favor of any new thing until
we have heard from headquarters; but it appears to be considered a sign of knowledge to vituperate
pictures and statues which do not conform to some undefinable ideal standard of our own invention.
There is, of course, a class of indulgent critics who are pernicious enough in their way; but
the savage and destructive criticism of which I speak is quite as ignorant and far more harmful.
It assumes an air of authority based on a superficial knowledge of art, and beguiles the public
into a belief in its infallibility by means of a smooth style and an occasional epigram the
smartness of which may and often does conceal a rank injustice. The expression of a hope that
the result of Mr. Bartholdi's labors "will be something better than another gigantic asparagus
stalk added to those that already give so comical a look to our sky-line," is truly an encouraging
and generous utterance at this particular stage of the enterprise, and equals in moderation
the courteous remark that the statue "could not fail to be ridiculous in the expanse of New
York Bay."[A] It is not necessary to touch upon the question of courtesy at all, but it is
possible that one of our critics may live to regret his vegetable metaphor, and the other to
revise his prematurely positive censure. There is a sketch in charcoal which represents the
Bartholdi colossus as the artist has seen it in his mind's eye, standing high above the waters
of the beautiful harbor at twilight, when the lights are just beginning to twinkle in the distant
cities and when darkness is softly stealing over the service of the busy earth and sea. The
mystery of evening enwraps the huge form of the statue, which looms vaster than by day, and
takes on an aspect of strange majesty, augmented by the background of hurrying clouds which
fill the upper portion of the sky. So seen, the immense Liberty appears what the sculptor wishes
and intends it to be, what we Americans sincerely hope it may be,--a fitting memorial of an
inspiring episode in history, and a great work of modern art.

[Footnote A: Copyright, 1884, by Frances C. Sparhawk. All rights reserved.]

CHAPTER III.

IDLESSE.

"Don't move your head, Elizabeth, keep it in that position a little longer," said Katie Archdale,
as she and her friend sat together the morning after the sail.