"That was rude," I remarked; "but still I pity the men if they are engaged by very exacting
sisters, because, after all, they are not real brothers."

"Oh," said Miss Buller, "I admit that sometimes sisters do get troublesome. One situation I
find very hard to fill: the Brothers complain of its being such a hard place, as the young
lady is so unpopular that no men ever come to speak to her, and her idea of a Brother is a
person who never quits your side in the Row, or elsewhere. The consequence is, that the wretched
Brother never has a moment's relaxation. She pays very highly, however. You know, many men
stipulate that, even if fulfilling engagements, they shall be free to attend race meetings.
We are obliged to consider the Brothers, as I assure you the competition for our best ones
is tremendous. They are engaged--like seats at the theatre--for weeks beforehand. I forgot
to mention that they are paid less highly in the winter than in the Season."

"You are certainly doing an excellent work," I exclaimed, growing bolder as I felt my copy
was made; "and, if I could hire myself out as your Brother,"--I paused expressively.

"I guess I don't need to hire," she replied gaily, "I find all the Brothers are willing to
take me out for nothing."

"For love, and not for money,"--I interrupted, bowing.

"When they are disengaged," she continued, laughingly. "Besides, being American, I don't need
to call them Brothers."

"The Brothers have taste!" was my remark; and then I added, "I suppose the work nearly all
falls on your shoulders?"

"Yes; that is inevitable. Arranging for engagements is nothing, but I find it necessary to
make the Brothers refer all disputes to me, and delicate points arise. One arose last week,
when a lady called upon her Brother to chastise an erring suitor, who had jilted her. However,
I said at once that this was not included in his duties, as the offence was prior to his entering
on his present Brothership."

"Well, I think you were quite right," I said; "but I'm afraid your position is not so enviable
as I fancied at first. I shouldn't care myself to settle such delicate points."

"Nonsense!" she replied, "these are crumpled rose leaves. The agency is paying splendidly.
I am making my fortune, and at the same time conferring a boon on society. Why there is no
longer a dearth of partners at dances, as most girls bring a Brother. In fact, the agency is
doing so well that I shall soon have to take larger premises."

"Well, Miss Buller," I said, taking up my hat, "I hardly know how to thank you for your courtesy
and patience in answering all my questions. I now thoroughly understand the working of your
excellent agency, and I am sure that it is a scheme that will continue to flourish."

"Till the Brothers form a Union, and go out on strike," replied Miss Buller gaily. "The demand
already exceeds the supply!"

She rang the bell, and a neat parlourmaid showed me out.

As I walked away, I marvelled that this inspired scheme, which bids fair to revolutionise modern
society, should be the fruit of one mind.

I also thought with pleasure of my next meeting with Grigsby.

My Own Murderer.

BY E. J. GOODMAN.

ILLUSTRATIONS BY J. GREIG.

        -----

When I say that my name is Samuel Chillip, of course you will know who I am. Yes, I am the
author--it has been said the famous author--of "The Poisoned Waterbottle," "Steeped in Gore,"
"The Demon Detective," and other highly sensational and blood-curdling stories. But though
these tales of mine have brought me some fame and a fair amount of profit, I am not particularly
proud of them. I really don't know how I, so to speak, drifted into crime. I never liked it,
and, of course, never practised it myself. I would much rather have written sentimental or
moral stories, but I seemed somehow fated to turn my attention to fraud and violence, and I
could not get away from such subjects.

I am a family man with a wife and children, and live the most domesticated and harmless of
lives. I rent a small villa at St. John's Wood, and have got a pretty garden, which I cultivate
myself. I take my children out for walks in the Park, and have even been known to nurse the
baby. Never was there a man whose mode of life was so different from his mode of getting a
living. I burn the midnight oil, that is to say, I do my best work at night. The cares of a
large family distract me so much that I can never concentrate my attention on my plots and
situations in the daytime. It is only when the wife has retired, and the children, the darlings!
are put to bed, that I can sit down quietly and develop my deeds of darkness.

Nothing out of the usual course had happened on the memorable evening of which I am about to
tell, and which was destined to have so marked an influence on my literary career. I had had
tea with my beloved Seraphina and our six children at seven o'clock, and afterwards we all
sat round the fire, and I told stories--stories not of crime and cruelty, but of good fairies
and enchanted princesses, of boys and girls at school, and innocent loves and faithful lovers,
which always started with "once upon a time," and ended with "happy ever after."

During the evening my little flock gradually melted away till nothing was left of it but my
dear wife and our eldest girl, aged fourteen. At ten o'clock we supped off cold roast pork
and rice pudding, with a little mild ale as a beverage, and then my beloved ones kissed me,
wished me good night, and left me to my labours.

By half-past ten I was hard at work in my study, deep in the most critical chapter of my new
story, "The Chemist's Revenge." I rather prided myself on the originality of the crime committed
in this thrilling tale. The wicked hero had invented a hideous pill, compounded of ingredients
which would explode within a human body and blow it to atoms. And now I was approaching the
terrible scene in which the fatal dose was about to be administered to the hapless victim.

It was a quiet night; there was not a breath of wind even to stir the trees out of doors, and
all was still within, save when a coal fell from the fireplace into the grate and the clock
on my mantelpiece chimed the hour. Midnight had just struck, when my ears were suddenly startled
and my heart set beating by a sound out of doors. It was that of a slow, heavy step, crunching
the gravel of the garden path and coming nearer and nearer to my door. And then the footsteps
ceased, and there was a knock--a single knock.

If I had made the flesh of my readers to creep in my time, now it was the turn of my own. No
one had ever visited me before by night in this way. I could not imagine who it could be or
what he--for it was the tread of a man that I had heard--could want.

I turned cold and shivered. But a moment's thought told me that after all it might be only
a policeman, suspecting burglars, come to inquire why my light was burning, or it might be
a "mistake."

So I went to the door and opened it without removing the chain.

"Who is there?" I asked.

Then a voice inquired, "Is this Mr. Samuel Chillip's?" It was a somewhat hoarse, gruff voice,
but its tone was subdued and quiet. It threatened nothing unpleasant.

"Yes, I am Mr. Chillip," I said.

"Can I speak with you a moment?"

"About what? Who are you?"

"I am a stranger, and I cannot well explain my business here, but it is important and urgent."

This was said in so tranquil and respectful a manner as to allay any apprehension I might have
felt, while exciting my curiosity. Still I hesitated. The stranger might be a beggar. But he
anticipated my thought.

"I have not come to beg," he said, "or to trouble you in any way. I have an important communication
to make to you, likely to be useful to you in your occupation, and it must be made at once
or it will be too late."

Here was a mystery equal to many that I myself had invented. What could it mean? I was eager
to know, and alas! let the stranger in.

He asked me to allow him to accompany me to my study, and I did so. There was but a dim light
in the passage, and it was not till he had entered my room, and the rays of my lamp had fallen
upon him, that I discovered what manner of man it was that I had rashly admitted.

He was a tall, big man, with a hard, square face, and deep-set, glittering eyes, and his chin
fringed with a round, shaggy beard, while he was attired in a rough pilot coat, and on his
head he wore a broad-brimmed felt hat. He looked like a seafaring man, and was not a prepossessing
person.

I asked him to take a seat, and seated myself in my round-backed writing chair beside my desk.

He had taken off his hat, and held it on his knee with his left hand, while the other he buried
in his capacious side pocket. I thought he was going to produce something, but he did not.

He merely opened a conversation, and I may say that the tone of his voice throughout was always
as quiet, as calm, as subdued, as when he addressed me at the door.

"You are Mr. Samuel Chillip?" he asked, or remarked, again.

I bowed in reply.

"The author of 'The Poisoned Waterbottle' and other stories?"

"Yes."

"Tales of crime?"

"You may call them so."

"What do you know of crime?"

The question startled me. In the first place, it was an extraordinary one to ask under the
circumstances, and in the next, it was not an easy one to answer.

"May I inquire," I said, "why you put this question?"

"Because I wish to know."

"For what purpose?"

"That you will discover presently."

The man had evidently an object in view, so I thought I would humour him.

"I have taken great interest in the subject," I said, "and have studied it in books and newspapers
and in the courts of justice, and have also derived a good deal of information from persons
who have come in contact with criminals."

"Ah! you know nothing of it from personal experience?"

"How do you mean?"

"You never, for instance, saw a murderer?"

"Only in the dock."

"Would you like to see a murderer?"

"Well," I replied, with a nervous laugh, "'like' is hardly the word. If I happened to come
across such an individual, I should feel interested, no doubt."

"No doubt," this strangest of strangers echoed, adding, after a pause, "and you never saw a
murder done?"

"Never."

"Would you like to see a murder done?"

This gruesome question almost startled me out of my chair.

"Good gracious!" I exclaimed, "certainly not."

"And yet you write about such things."

"That is quite a different matter. But you must excuse me for saying that I do not understand
the object of these questions. May I ask who you are?"

"I am a murderer."

My visitor said this in the calmest way, as though he were only calling himself a clerk or
a carpenter.

"A murderer?" I gasped rather than asked.

"A murderer in intention only at present. I am going to do a murder, and I want you to witness it."

Good heavens! I looked at the stranger; I met his terrible wild eyes, and in a moment it flashed
upon me that I was in the presence of a madman.

I started from my chair, and was about to rush to the bell and call for help, but the stranger
put his left hand on my shoulder and kept me in my seat, while he drew his right hand from
his coat pocket, and something glittered in the lamplight. Oh, horror! a bright, new, large,
six-chambered revolver!

"Be still, be silent," he said, almost in a whisper, "or you are a dead man."

I need hardly say that I was quiet enough after this, and sat grasping my chair arms with both
hands, and staring at the stranger, perhaps with my hair standing on end.

"I don't want to hurt you," the dreadful man went on, "unless I can get nobody better to kill.
But I mean to kill someone to-night, and I want you to see me do it. You must come with me
out into the streets, and go about with me until we find somebody worth killing. You must keep
very quiet, utter no cry, give no alarm, excite no suspicion. Otherwise I shall shoot you dead
on the spot. I would not mind killing you, the author of so many stories of crime, but I would
rather slay someone of higher social position, and leave you to live and record the deed."

I reflected that I should prefer this arrangement myself, but, still better, I would rather
get out of the whole horrible business altogether. But the madman, as I regarded him, was imperative.

"Put on your hat and coat and come with me quietly," he said. "Make no noise or I fire."

It was a frightful situation, such as I had never conceived even in my wildest dreams, but
what was I to do? In silence I attired myself for this terrible expedition. My companion made
me precede him to the street door, opened it himself, and closed it quietly behind us.

Side by side in silence we walked, the maniac keeping half a step in my rear, and I knew all
the while that he had his right hand in his side pocket. Now and then he indicated the way
we should go, and then he led me across the Regent's Park, and so through street after street
till we reached Hyde Park Corner. We passed several policemen by the way, but, unfortunately,
none of them suspected or even particularly noticed us. I dared not give an alarm or attract
attention, for did I not know that that dreadful hand was still in that dreadful side pocket?

Presently my companion paused, and said, as though speaking to himself:

"A member of the Royal Family would be best."

I was rather glad to hear this, because if he intended that an illustrious personage should
be his victim he was likely to be disappointed. Royal Highnesses are not usually found walking
about in the neighbourhood of their palaces at two o'clock in the morning.

Thus we rambled to and fro near Buckingham and St. James's Palaces and Marlborough House, need
I say with no result? Not a single Prince was to be seen anywhere, and my companion seemed
slightly disgusted.

"Hum!" he muttered. "They are hiding. Let us go now to Downing Street."

He evidently thought that, failing Royalty, his next best course would be to slay a Cabinet
Minister. But neither the Premier nor any of the Secretaries of State happened to be abroad
at that hour.

Our walk down Whitehall proving uneventful, the madman next suggested that we should "try the
Houses of Parliament." Here the position seemed more dangerous. The House of Commons could
not have long adjourned--it was in the days of late sittings--and it was quite possible that
some belated M.P. might be on his way home.

Presently, indeed, my companion made a remark that filled me with horror.

"That looks like one," he said. "Now steady."

An elderly, respectable-looking gentleman was approaching us, walking alone from the direction
of the House, and my terrible associate was standing under a lamp-post still with his hand
in his pocket.

My presence of mind together with my faculty of invention, here happily came to my aid.

"Stay," I whispered; "mind what you are about, or you will make a mistake. That is not a member
of Parliament. I know him by sight but not to speak to. He is a retail grocer who keeps a shop
in Oxford Street."

"Are you quite sure?"

"Quite."

And so the elderly stranger passed us, little guessing what a narrow escape he had had.

The position was truly appalling. Now we neared the Royal Academy, at that time still situated
in Trafalgar Square, and my would-be murderer muttered something about "picking off" an R.A.
or an Associate. The wretched creature seemed well up in honorary titles. Next we wandered
along the Strand, and he thought of destroying a distinguished actor, but the theatrical profession
had doubtless long since gone to bed. Thank goodness he had not gone far into the heart of
Clubland, or he might have found there a victim worthy of his murderous weapon.

On, on he led me, past Temple Bar, not without an eye for wandering Judges and Queen's Counsel.
Fortunately, at that hour, it was now about four a.m., the newspapers had all gone to press,
and there were no eminent journalists about. Then he came to St. Paul's, and talked about archbishops,
bishops and canons, and I almost laughed at the idea of our meeting a Church dignitary abroad
at such a time.

Finally, we got into the heart of the City, and here I felt safe if he had any designs on the
Directors of the Bank of England or members of the Stock Exchange.

It was in the middle of the deserted road opposite the Mansion House that he stopped at last,
and cast a fond look at the residence of the Lord Mayor.

"He won't come out," he murmured; "none of them will, the cowards. Not even an alderman."

Then, after looking about him for a time--why, oh! why, were not the suspicions of some policeman
excited by our strange proceedings?--he suddenly exclaimed, to my great joy:

"I am afraid it is no good. We shall have to give it up for to-night; they are all in hiding,
every one of them. To be sure, I might pick off some stranger, and take my chance, but it is
hardly good enough. I should waste myself."

This was the pleasantest speech he had yet made, but his next was not so agreeable.

"After all," he said, turning to me, "I don't think I could get anybody better than you. You
are a rather distinguished novelist, and the fact that you write stories of crime would make
it sound remarkable. What do you say?"

I was almost too frightened to say anything. I was trembling all over, for in a moment that
dreadful hand might leap out of that dreadful pocket, and my fate would be sealed. But, happily,
my imagination once more came to my aid.

"It is not a bad idea," I replied; "but I think you could do better. Don't be in a hurry--there
are plenty of distinguished people about, but not at so late an hour as when you called on
me last night. Come a little earlier to-night, say at ten o'clock, and we'll see if we can't
find a Prince. I know them all by sight, and will point one out to you, a good one. Of course,
if you can't get anybody better, you can shoot me."

"Thank you," he said, and for the first time he drew his hand out of that horrible pocket of
his, and grasped my own. "It is a good idea. To-night then it shall be, at ten o'clock. Good
morning."

I could hardly believe my senses when I saw the dreadful creature slowly making his way towards
Cheapside. But, indeed, my senses were failing me. I turned giddy, and staggered against a
lamp-post, where presently I was found by a wandering policeman.

I put my hand to my throat, for I felt choking.

"Stop him, stop him!" I cried. "He has got a revolver--he is a murderer--he----"

But the miserable constable took no notice of my warning. He only took me by the arm, and,
turning his bull's eye and a suspicious glance upon my countenance, said:

"Here, you had better go home quietly, sir. I suppose you have been dining out rather late.
Hi, hansom!"

And he bundled me into a cab, and took my name and address, and the next moment I was bowling
along on my road to St. John's Wood.

It was nearly six in the morning when I arrived, and, fortunately, no one heard me when I let
myself in with my latch-key.

