A glance was enough.  One step and she fell half fainting at Elisha's feet, pouring out her
soul in thanks to God and to the man of God. Turning to her boy, she gathered him up tenderly
in her arms and bore him down the stairs to her own room in the house below.  And thus was
her boy restored to her alive.

A LITTLE JEWISH MAID.

Ben-hadad, the dark-eyed King of Syria, could no longer leap into his chariot and drive his
swift horses through the fields as he used to do. He could not draw the bow of steel or fling
the heavy spear as far or as straight as the young men of his tribe, for he was getting old;
and he had given up going with his warriors on their fighting across the Jordan, leaving it
to his younger chieftains.

His home was in the beautiful town of Damascus, set in a land so rich and green with tapering
trees, vineyards, and fields of grass, and watered with such delightful streams, that the Arabs,
coming on their camels from the yellow sands of the hot desert, cried out, when they saw its
white walls hung with green creepers, that it shone "like a handful of pearls in a green cup."

He ruled the tribes of Syria from that walled city, and in the spring-time of the year his
chiefs gathered the young warriors to make up their minds where they should go to fight and
plunder.  Among the chiefs was Naaman the Syrian, a young man who led them out to battle when
the king could not go, and had several times beaten their foes. Sitting among his chiefs, with
his royal spear in his hand, a band of gold round his brow, and rings of gold on his arms and
legs, the old king talked with them about fighting the men of Israel, and gave them their orders;
and best of all his warriors the king loved Naaman the Syrian.

Now when Naaman blew the king's horns and beat the king's drums up and down the country, calling
the young men of the tribes for a raid across the Jordan, it was either to steal cattle and
corn, or to capture slaves; and boys and girls were the slaves they liked best.

One day, when he returned from one of these slave-raids, Naaman brought back with him a little
Jewish maid; and she looked so pretty with her dark eyes and ruddy cheeks that he gave her
as a present to his Syrian wife, to wait upon her and run her messages.  When her mistress
washed her hands, the little maid held the basin on bended knee.  When she dressed her dark
hair, she held the comb and the oil, and the little pots of yellow dye for her nails and the
black paint for her eyebrows. When she went out, this little maid went also, in a little dress
of scarlet, with a white kerchief on her dark head.

She learnt to love her mistress very much; and was sorry for her master, for he was troubled
with the terrible sickness of leprosy, and she often wished he could be made well.  One day
she sighed, and said to her mistress,--

"Oh, I would to God that my master were with our prophet in Samaria! then he would get better
of his leprosy."

She believed with all her heart that Elisha the prophet, like a clever doctor, could do something
for him.

Now what she had said was told to Naaman, who told it to the king; and as they had both heard
about Elisha, the wild prophet of Israel, the king told his favourite chief to go and see the
wonderful man.  And he also wrote a letter to Joram, the King of Israel, and gave it to Naaman
to deliver; and this is what he wrote:--

"When this letter comes to thee, O King Joram, it is to tell thee that I have sent Naaman,
my servant, for thee to heal him of his leprosy."

