Creams are very good, made according to the following simple, inexpensive recipe, which is
just enough to fill twelve small cups or glasses. Take good milk sufficient to fill them, and
boil it with two ounces of grated chocolate, and six of white sugar; then beat the yolks of
six eggs, to which add slowly the chocolate-milk, turning steadily one way. When quite mixed,
pass the whole through a search, fill your cups, and, if you have not a regular bain-marie,
a flat sauce-pan will do, filled to a proper height, so as not to overtop the creams, and which
must continue boiling a quarter of an hour. For a change, instead of the chocolate, boil the
milk with a pod of vanille broken in pieces, or any other flavour you may fancy.

Spinach Cream.--Boil your spinach, and let it thoroughly drain in a cullender; then press it
through a hair-sieve with a spoon, as for food. Take the pulp that has been pressed through
the sieve, and mix it with cream, or very good milk, and two additional yolks of eggs. Pass
the yolks of six eggs through a sieve, add six ounces of white sugar in powder, and two table-spoonfuls
of trebly-distilled orange flower-water, and, as before mentioned, place the cups in a bain-marie
for a quarter of an hour.

I requested the good-natured nephew to dress me a dish of macaroni, which he did as follows,
one of his many modes of preparing it: He boiled it till just tender, and no more. The English
cook it too much, he said. When drained, he grated a sufficient quantity of both Gruyère and
Parmesan cheese, and alternately put upon the dish, first macaroni, and then cheese, finishing
with the cheese. Over this he poured strong beef-gravy, in which some tomatoes had been dissolved,
and put it a few minutes in the oven, and then a few more before the fire in a Dutch oven;
but he preferred a hot hole, and to cover it with a four de compagne, or cover upon which you
place hot embers. He also assured me the following sauce was better even than the beef-gravy:--

Tomato Sauce.--Warm your tomatoes until you can skin them; beat the pulp with finely-grated
ham, onion, parsley, thyme, salt, and Lucca oil, all as small as possible; pass through a sieve,
and pour over your macaroni. Serve hot.

Tomatoes are good skinned, the seeds taken out, and with a little butter and finely-chopped
herbs, beaten into a paste with eggs, and fried in a light batter.

Fried Asparagus.--Do not boil it too much, but enough to cut in pieces and pass through a sieve;
mix this with grated ham and Parmesan cheese, and with butter make it into a paste of good
consistency, which fry in a light batter. Celery is also very nice treated in the same way.
As I like butter, as the French do, without any salt at all, I found much difficulty in keeping
quite sweet what a farmer obligingly so prepared for me. Without water, it got bad. Made into
pats, and kept in water, it lost flavour; but Madame Miau soon put me upon a plan by which
it remained for ten days as if new churned. As soon as I received my quantum, I had it well
washed in spring-water, for sometimes the milk had not been taken clean out of it; and then
it was put down with a spoon in a salad bowl, to which it adhered. Every morning, fresh water,
in which was dissolved a little salt, was poured upon it, and the top curled off for use with
a tea-spoon or a small shell. To the very last, it was sweet and tasteless; and I consider
this a very valuable hint, in hot weather especially.

FOOTNOTES:

[2] Nos. 388 and 416.

AMUSEMENTS FOR THE PEOPLE.

We have become so accustomed to the idea of a soul-and-body-ruining intemperance amongst the
lower portion of the working-classes, that only some startling details connected with it make
any great impression upon us. Yet it is verily a most awful thing to exist in the midst of
enlightened, advancing England. There are 1300 beer-shops in the borough of Manchester, besides
200 dram-shops. Thirty-nine per cent. of the beer-shops are annually reported by the police
as disorderly. One dram-shop receives 10,000 visits weekly. In those of Deansgate, which are
28 in number, 550 persons, including 235 women and 36 children, were found at one time on a
Saturday night. Many of the beer-shops are a haunt of the young of both sexes among the factory
people, 'the majority with faces unwashed and hair uncombed, dancing in their wooden clogs
to the music of an organ, violin, or seraphine.'

A considerable number of the public-houses of Manchester have music continually going on as
an attraction. Twenty-four such houses are open on Sunday evenings. Two of them received 5500
visitors per week last winter. The most innocent of the favourite haunts of the people are
casinos, or music-saloons, where multitudes assemble to witness scenic representations, feats
of jugglery, tumbling, &c. Twopence is paid for admission, and for this the value is given
in refreshments, most frequently consisting of ginger-beer. These places are comparatively
innocent, but still are far from being what is required in that respect.[3]

It is a tremendous problem--how are we to give innocent amusement to the people? Perhaps there
is none of our day more momentous. We try the lecture, and win an audience of units out of
the thousands whom we seek to benefit. The reading-room, with penny cups of coffee, holds out
its modest charms, and does much good, but still leaves the masses as it finds them. Something
else is wanted, but it is difficult to say what it should be. Perhaps some clever person will
hit upon it by intuition, or some ordinary one by accident, and so solve the problem. Perhaps
it will be left to the philosopher to consider the human nature of the case, and divine what
should be done. We can imagine him saying something like this: 'Man is a creature that requires
novelty, variety, and excitement. He cannot be kept at duty continually; he must have pleasure
too. He cannot be always at work on the real; he demands the ideal also. Even in the course
of exertions which he relishes as conducing to his material interests, he every now and then
requires a change of scene and of occupation. Something to divert the mind from its ordinary
series of ideas--something to enable us to lose ourselves in a temporary illusion, were it
only a jocular supposition of our being something a good deal worse than we are--something,
above all, to stir the hearty laugh, which proves its being good for us by the very help it
gives to digestion--is required at frequent intervals--all free from what tends to debase and
corrupt. Such is the theory of Amusement; and nothing which does not fulfil that theory will
be effective for its ends. Here is a perquisition somewhat more startling than that of Xerxes,
putting a prize upon a new pleasure. Happy will be the man who can devise truly available means
of supplying this grand want in our Work-World! It is plainly for want of some such device
that the public-house thrives, and that human nature is seen in such unlovely forms amongst
the lower circles of society.'

It occurs to us, that there can be no social want which society itself is not competent to
satisfy. In the variety of the human faculties, there are some which immediately tend to give
pleasure and amusement, and certain men possess these in a greater degree than others. The
troubadour, the jongleur, and the joculator, are natural productions of all time, in a certain
proportion to the bulk of their kind. Accordingly, all through the various grades of society,
we find clever people, exhibiting a gift for music, for mirth-making, for narration, and for
dramatic effect. In the upper circles, these voluntary and unprofessional powers form the main
dependence for the amusement of the evening. In the inferior walks of life, they are comparatively
lost for want of a fair field to work in: they only find a vulgar and unworthy outlet in the
coarse scenes of the tavern. Suppose we address ourselves to making arrangements by which humble
society could be enabled to take advantage of the powers of amusement which lie within itself?

We can pretend to nothing like a scheme, and perhaps so much the better. We can imagine, however,
that in certain circumstances, the desideratum could be tolerably well supplied without much
outlay or formality. We have coffee and reading rooms already. Say that to such an institution,
we add a music and conversation room; this, as a beginning. There, when the newspaper or book
had ceased to charm, let a group assemble, and, according as there might be power present,
enjoy itself with a tune, a song, a chorus, a recital, an elocutionary reading, a debate on
some question, or a scene from a play. Presuming that the house is under the care of an honest,
well-meaning person, there could be little fear of impropriety of any kind as resulting from
such amusements. The amateur spirit guarantees plenty of such volunteer effort. Let it simply
be understood, as in ordinary society, that each should do his best to promote the hilarity
of the evening. If a single room succeeded, let two be tried--one for conversation alone, or
for such games as cards and draughts (under strict regulation, to prevent any beyond nominal
stakes); while the other served for music, and other entertainments not inferring silence.
In the long-run, there might be further additions, allowing rooms for mutual instruction in
various arts and accomplishments, sheds and courts for out-of-doors amusements, and so on.

If such establishments were ever to reach a public character, under what regulation should
they be placed? We have no suggestion to make; but we embrace and maintain the principle, that
the more they were understood to be under the protection of the public opinion of the class
for whose benefit they are designed, the better. The patronising puritanism of another class
would ruin everything. Let the other classes, if called on to assist, agree to view all that
went on with a certain liberality of judgment, remembering that, although there may be some
little possibilities of abuse, the whole project is, after all, an alternative from something
infinitely worse; and in a fair course, improvement is to be expected. It is one unfortunate
necessity of the case, that a very small abuse in a system under a responsible administration,
makes a great scandal against the administration itself; the public not reflecting, that that
administration may be all the time tending to the repression, not the promotion of such abuses:
hence the difficulty of getting responsible administrations in such cases at all. These, however,
are difficulties to be struggled with, not given way to.

FOOTNOTES:

[3] The facts here adduced are from a recent contribution of Dr J. W. Hudson to the Manchester
Examiner.

CORINNA AT THE CAPITOL.

BY MARIE J. EWEN.

    There were footsteps on the Corso in the morning twilight gray,
    And gatherings in the Forum ere the rosy blush of day;
    Loud voices round the Capitol, and on the marble stair,
    A breathless crowd assembled, as for a triumph there.

    The chimes of San Giovanni, how merrily they ring!
    As if to all the city a soul of joy to bring:
    There's noise of many chariots, and sounds of trampling feet,
    Of horses with their trappings gay, and minstrels in the street.

    And the balconies, what mean they with their tapestry so fine?
    And why are garlands wreathed around the arch of Constantine?
    What mean those banners streaming bright o'er tower and glittering
      dome,
    Ye ladies fair and gentlemen, that throng the streets of Rome?

    It is a day of triumph, and the brightest of its kind;
    The victory of genius and the mastership of mind;
    Corinna, the pride of Italy, descends the flower-wreathed way,
    For at the proud old Capitol she will be crowned to-day.

    Right nobly prance her snow-white steeds; behold the chariot come!
    Room, room for her, the star of all! ye citizens of Rome.
    Off with your hats, brave gentlemen! for genius is divine,
    And never hath she made her home in such a lovely shrine.

    She comes! the fair Corinna comes! 'mid thunders of acclaim,
    That rush unto the lips of all at the murmur of her name.
    Scatter sweet roses all around; fling perfumes to the air;
    And strew her path with all that breathes of beautiful and fair.

    Her car hath gained the Capitol--her foot is on the stair;
    She stands a form of matchless grace, the queen of thousands there.
    Bring forth the wreath that threw afresh a lustre round his name,
    Whose genius burned, a vestal fire, with never-dying flame.

    Whose vision pierced the mantling mists that circle round the tomb,
    Where bitter groans resound for aye amid the starless gloom;
    Who saw the cities of the blest, and with as fearless tread
    Paced through the ebon halls of hell, the mansions of the dead.

    The crown that might have cast a ray to light lone Tasso's gloom,
    But only drooped, a funeral wreath, to wither on his tomb;
    Ay, reach it down, that laurel crown, it never hath been given
    To one more rich in beauty's grace, and all the gifts of Heaven.

    Oh, it is grand, a nation's love! a people's benison,
    The homage of ten thousand hearts flung at the feet of one;
    The rapturous glow that fires the soul, and thrills through every
      frame,
    At the mention of the worshipped one, the echo of her name.

    Corinna at the Capitol! Oh, what a spell comes o'er me,
    As I view the gorgeous pageantry that passeth now before me;
    But I would I knew the meaning of the tears which like a stream
    In pearly drops are shining through the rapture of her dream.

    Though laurel wreaths surround her brow, and glory lights her name,
    There is a chamber in her heart can ne'er be filled by fame;
    Lonely, amid adoring crowds, she deems, as well she may,
    The faithful love of one true heart were better worth than they.

    And when the crowd is parted, and the festival is o'er,
    The many voices silent, and the music heard no more;
    She will think upon the triumph, the splendour that is gone,
    As the shadow of a dream, or the echo of a tone!

GOING AHEAD.

The reading of your paper on 'Railway Communication,' has given me great pleasure: your remarks
about American railways are very well in the main, but the speed of travel is misstated, as
it ranges from forty to fifty miles an hour; unless it be an omnibus railway, like the Haarlem,
where they stop for passengers every few hundred yards. The Hudson River Railway, which passes
by our mill at Yonkers, almost frightens my brother out of his wits by its speed, and he takes
the steam-boat now to avoid it. The trains go very fast, but it is a superb road, and very
safe, as the servants of the company, with their flags and lanterns, line the road the whole
distance. They have twenty trains a day. The Erie Railway is also finished from New York to
Lake Erie; the traffic on this line is immense, freight often lying two weeks before it can
be put through. Its income is over three and a half million dollars. We have only one class
of passengers, except emigrant trains: the fare generally ranges from a cent and a quarter
to two cents a mile--on some of the shorter roads, as high as three or four cents. All the
carriages are lined with mahogany and silk plush. The locomotives on our long roads weigh from
twenty to forty tons. The fact is, that anything said about our physical development on data
collected at any one period, is quite likely to be false or absurd within a twelvemonth. Though
in the midst of it, and not one of the excitable kind, I am often astonished at it myself.
I have several times mentioned that you would hardly know New York, or find any of your old
landmarks; and yet New York would be comparatively a mean city, if you took away what had been
built within a year. Steam-ships shew another phase of it: three years ago, we hardly had the
shadow of one; now--and I have looked into the matter very carefully--I would not, as a commercial
speculation merely, exchange forty of the best of our steam-ships for any other forty in the
world: of course I don't refer to war-steamers. Some of the California steam-ships are perfect
pictures in model, and put the Collins' Line into the shade. By the way, did you ever notice
their passenger-list?--from 300 to 600 at a trip; and one vessel last year took 1125 passengers,
paying very nearly half her cost in a single trip. In the summer, they slept about the decks
like ants in a hill. A good education, including a college one to those who have the proper
capacity, is open to every poor child in this city, free of cost. The immense sums necessary
to pay for all this, are voted by the people themselves out of their own pocket.--Private Letter
from New York.