At the time that the murder was attempted Lord Lovel was in London,--and had seen Daniel Thwaite
on that morning; but before any confirmed rumour had reached his ears he had left London again
on his road to Yoxham. He knew now that he would be endowed with something like ten thousand
a year out of the wealth of the late Earl, but that he would not have the hand of his fair
cousin, the late Earl's daughter. Perhaps it was as well as it was. The girl had never loved
him, and he could now choose for himself;--and need not choose till it should be his pleasure
to settle himself as a married man. After all, his marriage with Lady Anna would have been
a constrained marriage,--a marriage which he would have accepted as the means of making his
fortune. The girl certainly had pleased him;--but it might be that a girl who preferred a tailor
would not have continued to please him. At any rate he could not be unhappy with his newly-acquired
fortune, and he went down to Yoxham to receive the congratulation of his friends, thinking
that it would become him now to make some exertion towards reconciling his uncle and aunt to
the coming marriage.

"Have you heard anything about Mr. Thwaite?" Mr. Flick said to him the day before he started.
The Earl had heard nothing. "They say that he has been wounded by a pistol-ball." Lord Lovel
stayed some days at a friend's house on his road into Yorkshire, and when he reached the rectory,
the rector had received news from London. Mr. Thwaite the tailor had been murdered, and it
was surmised that the deed had been done by the Countess. "I trust the papers were signed before
you left London," said the anxious rector. The documents making over the property were all
right, but the Earl would believe nothing of the murder. Mr. Thwaite might have been wounded.
He had heard so much before,--but he was quite sure that it had not been done by the Countess.
On the following day further tidings came. Mr. Thwaite was doing well, but everybody said that
the attempt had been made by Lady Lovel. Thus by degrees some idea of the facts as they had
occurred was received at the rectory.

"You don't mean that you want us to have Mr. Thwaite here?" said the rector, holding up his
hands, upon hearing a proposition made to him by his nephew a day or two later.

"Why not, uncle Charles?"

"I couldn't do it. I really don't think your aunt could bring herself to sit down to table
with him."

"Aunt Jane?"

"Yes, your aunt Jane,--or your aunt Julia either." Now a quieter lady than aunt Jane, or one
less likely to turn up her nose at any guest whom her husband should choose to entertain, did
not exist.

"May I ask my aunts?"

"What good can it do, Frederic?"

"He's going to marry our cousin. He's not at all such a man as you seem to think."

"He has been a journeyman tailor all his life."

"You'll find he'll make a very good sort of gentleman. Sir William Patterson says that he'll
be in Parliament before long."

"Sir William! Sir William is always meddling. I have never thought much about Sir William."

"Come, uncle Charles,--you should be fair. If we had gone on quarrelling and going to law,
where should I have been now? I should never have got a shilling out of the property. Everybody
says so. No doubt Sir William acted very wisely."

"I am no lawyer. I can't say how it might have been. But I may have my doubts if I like. I
have always understood that Lady Lovel, as you choose to call her, was never Lord Lovel's wife.
For twenty years I have been sure of it, and I can't change so quickly as some other people."

"She is Lady Lovel now. The King and Queen would receive her as such if she went to Court.
Her daughter is Lady Anna Lovel."

"It may be so. It is possible."

"If it be not so," said the young lord thumping the table, "where have I got the money from?"
This was an argument that the rector could not answer;--so he merely shook his head. "I am
bound to acknowledge them after taking her money."

"But not him. You haven't had any of his money. You needn't acknowledge him."

"We had better make the best of it, uncle Charles. He is going to marry our cousin, and we
should stand by her. Sir William very strongly advises me to be present at the marriage, and
to offer to give her away."

"The girl you were going to marry yourself!"

"Or else that you should do it. That of course would be better."

The rector of Yoxham groaned when the proposition was made to him. What infinite vexation of
spirit and degradation had come to him from these spurious Lovels during the last twelve months!
He had been made to have the girl in his house and to give her precedence as Lady Anna, though
he did not believe in her; he had been constrained to treat her as the desired bride of his
august nephew the Earl,--till she had refused the Earl's hand; after he had again repudiated
her and her mother because of her base attachment to a low-born artisan, he had been made to
re-accept her in spirit, because she had been generous to his nephew;--and now he was asked
to stand at the altar and give her away to the tailor! And there could come to him neither
pleasure nor profit from the concern. All that he had endured he had borne simply for the sake
of his family and his nephew. "She is degrading us all,--as far as she belongs to us," said
the rector. "I can't see why I should be asked to give her my countenance in doing it."

"Everybody says that it is very good of her to be true to the man she loved when she was poor
and in obscurity. Sir William says--"

"---- Sir William!" muttered the rector between his teeth, as he turned away in disgust. What
had been the first word of that minatory speech Lord Lovel did not clearly hear. He had been
brought up as a boy by his uncle, and had never known his uncle to offend by swearing. No one
in Yoxham would have believed it possible that the parson of the parish should have done so.
Mrs. Grimes would have given evidence in any court in Yorkshire that it was absolutely impossible.
The archbishop would not have believed it though his archdeacon had himself heard the word.
All the man's known antecedents since he had been at Yoxham were against the probability. The
entire close at York would have been indignant had such an accusation been made. But his nephew
in his heart of hearts believed that the rector of Yoxham had damned the Solicitor-General.

There was, however, more cause for malediction, and further provocations to wrath, in store
for the rector. The Earl had not as yet opened all his budget, or let his uncle know the extent
of the sacrifice that was to be demanded from him. Sir William had been very urgent with the
young nobleman to accord everything that could be accorded to his cousin. "It is not of course
for me to dictate," he had said, "but as I have been allowed so far to give advice somewhat
beyond the scope of my profession, perhaps you will let me say that in mere honesty you owe
her all that you can give. She has shared everything with you, and need have given nothing.
And he, my lord, had he been so minded, might no doubt have hindered her from doing what she
has done. You owe it to your honour to accept her and her husband with an open hand. Unless
you can treat her with cousinly regard you should not have taken what has been given to you
as a cousin. She has recognised you to your great advantage as the head of her family, and
you should certainly recognise her as belonging to it. Let the marriage be held down at Yoxham.
Get your uncle and aunt to ask her down. Do you give her away, and let your uncle marry them.
If you can put me up for a night in some neighbouring farm-house, I will come and be a spectator.
It will be for your honour to treat her after that fashion." The programme was a large one,
and the Earl felt that there might be some difficulty.

But in the teeth of that dubious malediction he persevered, and his next attack was upon aunt
Julia. "You liked her;--did you not?"

"Yes;--I liked her." The tone implied great doubt. "I liked her, till I found that she had
forgotten herself."

"But she didn't forget herself. She just did what any girl would have done, living as she was
living. She has behaved nobly to me."

"She has behaved no doubt conscientiously."

"Come, aunt Julia! Did you ever know any other woman to give away ten thousand a-year to a
fellow simply because he was her cousin? We should do something for her. Why should you not
ask her down here again?"

"I don't think my brother would like it."

"He will if you tell him. And we must make a gentleman of him."

"My dear Frederic, you can never wash a blackamoor white."

"Let us try. Don't you oppose it. It behoves me, for my honour, to show her some regard after
what she has done for me."

Aunt Julia shook her head, and muttered to herself some further remark about negroes. The inhabitants
of the Yoxham rectory,--who were well born, ladies and gentlemen without a stain, who were
hitherto free from all base intermarriages, and had nothing among their male cousins below
soldiers and sailors, parsons and lawyers, who had successfully opposed an intended marriage
between a cousin in the third degree and an attorney because the alliance was below the level
of the Lovels, were peculiarly averse to any intermingling of ranks. They were descended from
ancient earls, and their chief was an earl of the present day. There was but one titled young
lady now among them,--and she had only just won her right to be so considered. There was but
one Lady Anna,--and she was going to marry a tailor! "Duty is duty," said aunt Julia as she
hurried away. She meant her nephew to understand that duty commanded her to shut her heart
against any cousin who could marry a tailor.

The lord next attacked aunt Jane. "You wouldn't mind having her here?"

"Not if your uncle thought well of it," said Mrs. Lovel.

"I'll tell you what my scheme is." Then he told it all. Lady Anna was to be invited to the
rectory. The tailor was to be entertained somewhere near on the night preceding his wedding.
The marriage was to be celebrated by his uncle in Yoxham Church. Sir William was to be asked
to join them. And the whole thing was to be done exactly as though they were all proud of the
connection.

"Does your uncle know?" asked Mrs. Lovel, who had been nearly stunned by the proposition.

"Not quite. I want you to suggest it. Only think, aunt Jane, what she has done for us all!"
Aunt Jane couldn't think that very much had been done for her. They were not to be enriched
by the cousin's money. They had never been interested in the matter on their own account. They
wanted nothing. And yet they were to be called upon to have a tailor at their board,--because
Lord Lovel was the head of their family. But the Earl was the Earl; and poor Mrs. Lovel knew
how much she owed to his position. "If you wish it of course I'll tell him, Frederic."

"I do wish it;--and I'll be so much obliged to you."

The next morning the parson had been told all that was required of him, and he came down to
prayers as black as a thunder-cloud. It had been before suggested to him that he should give
the bride away, and though he had grievously complained of the request, he knew that he must
do it should the Earl still demand it. He had no power to oppose the head of the family. But
he had never thought then that he would be asked to pollute his own rectory by the presence
of that odious tailor. While he was shaving that morning very religious ideas had filled his
mind. What a horrible thing was wickedness! All this evil had come upon him and his because
the late Earl had been so very wicked a man! He had sworn to his wife that he would not bear
it. He had done and was ready to do more almost than any other uncle in England. But this he
could not endure. Yet when he was shaving, and thinking with religious horror of the iniquities
of that iniquitous old lord, he knew that he would have to yield. "I dare say they wouldn't
come," said aunt Julia. "He won't like to be with us any more than we shall like to have him."
There was some comfort in that hope; and trusting to it the rector had yielded everything before
the third day was over.

"And I may ask Sir William?" said the Earl.

"Of course we shall be glad to see Sir William Patterson if you choose to invite him," said
the rector, still oppressed by gloom. "Sir William Patterson is a gentleman no doubt, and a
man of high standing. Of course I and your aunt will be pleased to receive him. As a lawyer
I don't think much of him;--but that has nothing to do with it." It may be remarked here that
though Mr. Lovel lived for a great many years after the transactions which are here recorded,
he never gave way in reference to the case that had been tried. If the lawyers had persevered
as they ought to have done, it would have been found out that the Countess was no Countess,
that the Lady Anna was no Lady Anna, and that all the money had belonged by right to the Earl.
With that belief,--with that profession of belief,--he went to his grave an old man of eighty.

In the meantime he consented that the invitation should be given. The Countess and her daughter
were to be asked to Yoxham;--the use of the parish church was to be offered for the ceremony;
he was to propose to marry them; the Earl was to give the bride away; and Daniel Thwaite the
tailor was to be asked to dine at Yoxham Rectory on the day before the marriage! The letters
were to be written from the rectory by aunt Julia, and the Earl was to add what he pleased
for himself. "I suppose this sort of trial is sent to us for our good," said the rector to
his wife that night in the sanctity of their bedroom.

CHAPTER XLVII.

THINGS ARRANGE THEMSELVES.

But the Countess never gave way an inch. The following was the answer which she returned to
the note written to her by aunt Julia;--

"The Countess Lovel presents her compliments to Miss Lovel. The Countess disapproves altogether
of the marriage which is about to take place between Lady Anna Lovel and Mr. Daniel Thwaite,
and will take no part in the ceremony."

"By heavens,--she is the best Lovel of us all," said the rector when he read the letter.

This reply was received at Yoxham three days before any answer came either from Lady Anna or
from the tailor. Daniel had received his communication from the young lord, who had called
him "Dear Mr. Thwaite," who had written quite familiarly about the coming nuptials with "his
cousin Anna,"--had bade him come down and join the family "like a good fellow,"--and had signed
himself, "Yours always most sincerely, Lovel." "It almost takes my breath away," said the tailor
to his sweetheart, laughing.

"They are cousins, you know," said Lady Anna. "And there was a little girl there I loved so much."

"They can't but despise me, you know," said the tailor.

"Why should any one despise you?"

"No one should,--unless I be mean and despicable. But they do,--you may be sure. It is only
human nature that they should. We are made of different fabric,--though the stuff was originally
the same. I don't think I should be at my ease with them. I should be half afraid of their
gilt and their gingerbread, and should be ashamed of myself because I was so. I should not
know how to drink wine with them, and should do a hundred things which would make them think
me a beast."

"I don't see why you shouldn't hold up your head with any man in England," said Lady Anna.

"And so I ought;--but I shouldn't. I should be awed by those whom I feel to be my inferiors.
I had rather not. We had better keep to ourselves, dear!" But the girl begged for some delay.
It was a matter that required to be considered. If it were necessary for her to quarrel with
all her cousins for the sake of her husband,--with the bright fainéant young Earl, with aunts
Jane and Julia, with her darling Minnie, she would do so. The husband should be to her in all
respects the first and foremost. For his sake, now that she had resolved that she would be
his, she would if necessary separate herself from all the world. She had withstood the prayers
of her mother, and she was sure that nothing else could move her. But if the cousins were willing
to accept her husband, why should he not be willing to be accepted? Pride in him might be as
weak as pride in them. If they would put out their hands to him, why should he refuse to put
out his own? "Give me a day, Daniel, to think about it." He gave her the day, and then that
great decider of all things, Sir William, came to him, congratulating him, bidding him be of
good cheer, and saying fine things of the Lovel family generally. Our tailor received him courteously,
having learned to like the man, understanding that he had behaved with honesty and wisdom in
regard to his client, and respecting him as one of the workers of the day; but he declared
that for the Lovel family, as a family,--"he did not care for them particularly." "They are
poles asunder from me," he said.

"Not so," replied Sir William. "They were poles asunder, if you will. But by your good fortune
and merit, if you will allow me to say so, you have travelled from the one pole very far towards
the other."

"I like my own pole a deal the best, Sir William."

"I am an older man than you, Mr. Thwaite, and allow me to assure you that you are wrong."

"Wrong in preferring those who work for their bread to those who eat it in idleness?"

"Not that;--but wrong in thinking that there is not hard work done at the one pole as well
as the other; and wrong also in not having perceived that the best men who come up from age
to age are always migrating from that pole which you say you prefer, to the antipodean pole
to which you are tending yourself. I can understand your feeling of contempt for an idle lordling,
but you should remember that lords have been made lords in nine cases out of ten for good work
done by them for the benefit of their country."

"Why should the children of lords be such to the tenth and twentieth generation?"

"Come into parliament, Mr. Thwaite, and if you have views on that subject opposed to hereditary
peerages, express them there. It is a fair subject for argument. At present, I think that the
sense of the country is in favour of an aristocracy of birth. But be that as it may, do not
allow yourself to despise that condition of society which it is the ambition of all men to enter."

"It is not my ambition."

"Pardon me. When you were a workman among workmen, did you not wish to be their leader? When
you were foremost among them, did you not wish to be their master? If you were a master tradesman,
would you not wish to lead and guide your brother tradesmen? Would you not desire wealth in
order that you might be assisted by it in your views of ambition? If you were an alderman in
your borough, would you not wish to be the mayor? If mayor, would you not wish to be its representative
in Parliament? If in Parliament, would you not wish to be heard there? Would you not then clothe
yourself as those among whom you lived, eat as they ate, drink as they drank, keep their hours,
fall into their habits, and be one of them? The theory of equality is very grand."

"The grandest thing in the world, Sir William."

"It is one to which all legislative and all human efforts should and must tend. All that is
said and all that is done among people that have emancipated themselves from the thraldom of
individual aggrandizement, serve to diminish in some degree the distance between the high and
the low. But could you establish absolute equality in England to-morrow, as it was to have
been established in France some half century ago, the inequality of men's minds and character
would re-establish an aristocracy within twenty years. The energetic, the talented, the honest,
and the unselfish will always be moving towards an aristocratic side of society, because their
virtues will beget esteem, and esteem will beget wealth,--and wealth gives power for good offices."

"As when one man throws away forty thousand a year on race-courses."

"When you make much water boil, Mr. Thwaite, some of it will probably boil over. When two men
run a race, some strength must be wasted in fruitless steps beyond the goal. It is the fault
of many patriotic men that, in their desire to put down the evils which exist they will see
only the power that is wasted, and have no eyes for the good work done. The subject is so large
that I should like to discuss it with you when we have more time. For the present let me beg
of you, for your own sake as well as for her who is to be your wife, that you will not repudiate
civility offered to you by her family. It will show a higher manliness in you to go among them,
and accept among them the position which your wife's wealth and your own acquirements will
give you, than to stand aloof moodily because they are aristocrats."

"You can make yourself understood when you speak, Sir William."

"I am glad to hear you say so," said the lawyer, smiling.

"I cannot, and so you have the best of me. But you can't make me like a lord, or think that
a young man ought to wear a silk gown."

"I quite agree with you that the silk gowns should be kept for their elders," and so the conversation
was ended.

Daniel Thwaite had not been made to like a lord, but the eloquence of the urbane lawyer was
not wasted on him. Thinking of it all as he wandered alone through the streets, he began to
believe that it would be more manly to do as he was advised than to abstain because the doing
of the thing would in itself be disagreeable to him. On the following day, Lady Anna was with
him as usual; for the pretext of his wound still afforded to her the means of paying to him
those daily visits which in happier circumstances he would naturally have paid to her. "Would
you like to go to Yoxham?" he said. She looked wistfully up into his face. With her there was
a real wish that the poles might be joined together by her future husband. She had found, as
she had thought of it, that she could not make herself either happy or contented except by
marrying him, but it had not been without regret that she had consented to destroy altogether
the link which bound her to the noble blood of the Lovels. She had been made to appreciate
the sweet flavour of aristocratic influences, and now that the Lovels were willing to receive
her in spite of her marriage, she was more than willing to accept their offered friendship.
"If you really wish it, you shall go," he said.

"But you must go also."

"Yes;--for one day. And I must have a pair of gloves and a black coat."

"And a blue one,--to be married in."

"Alas me! Must I have a pink silk gown to walk about in, early in the morning?"

"You shall if you like, and I'll make it for you."

"I'd sooner see you darning my worsted stockings, sweetheart."

"I can do that too."

"And I shall have to go to church in a coach, and come back in another, and all the people
will smell sweet, and make eyes at me behind my back, and wonder among themselves how the tailor
will behave himself."

"The tailor must behave himself properly," said Lady Anna.

"That's just what he won't do,--and can't do. I know you'll be ashamed of me, and then we shall
both be unhappy."

"I won't be ashamed of you. I will never be ashamed of you. I will be ashamed of them if they
are not good to you. But, Daniel, you shall not go if you do not like it. What does it all
signify, if you are not happy?"

"I will go," said he. "And now I'll sit down and write a letter to my lord."

Two letters were written accepting the invitation. As that from the tailor to the lord was
short and characteristic it shall be given.

   MY DEAR LORD,

   I am much obliged to you for your lordship's invitation
   to Yoxham, and if accepting it will make me a good fellow,
   I will accept it. I fear, however, that I can never be a
   proper fellow to your lordship. Not the less do I feel
   your courtesy, and I am,

   With all sincerity,
   Your lordship's very obedient servant,

   DANIEL THWAITE.

Lady Anna's reply to aunt Julia was longer and less sententious, but it signified her intention
of going down to Yoxham a week before the day settled for the marriage, which was now the 10th
of July. She was much obliged, she said, to the rector for his goodness in promising to marry
them; and as she had no friends of her own she hoped that Minnie Lovel would be her bridesmaid.
There were, however, sundry other letters before the ceremony was performed, and among them
was one in which she was asked to bring Miss Alice Bluestone down with her,--so that she might
have one bridesmaid over and beyond those provided by the Yoxham aristocracy. To this arrangement
Miss Alice Bluestone acceded joyfully,--in spite of that gulf, of which she had spoken;--and,
so accompanied, but without her lady's-maid, Lady Anna returned to Yoxham that she might be
there bound in holy matrimony to Daniel Thwaite the tailor, by the hands of her cousin, the
Rev. Charles Lovel.

CHAPTER XLVIII.

THE MARRIAGE.

The marriage was nearly all that a marriage should be when a Lady Anna is led to the hymeneal
altar. As the ceremony was transferred from Bloomsbury, London, to Yoxham, in Yorkshire, a
licence had been procured, and the banns of which Daniel Thwaite thought so much, had been
called in vain. Of course there are differences in aristocratic marriages. All earls' daughters
are not married at St. George's, Hanover Square, nor is it absolutely necessary that a bishop
should tie the knot, or that the dresses should be described in a newspaper. This was essentially
a quiet marriage,--but it was quiet with a splendid quietude, and the obscurity of it was graceful
and decorous. As soon as the thing was settled,--when it was a matter past doubt that all the
Lovels were to sanction the marriage,--the two aunts went to work heartily. Another Lovel girl,
hardly more than seen before by any of the family, was gathered to the Lovel home as a third
bridesmaid, and for the fourth,--who should officiate, but the eldest daughter of Lady Fitzwarren?
The Fitzwarrens were not rich, did not go to town annually, and the occasions for social brilliancy
in the country are few and far between! Lady Fitzwarren did not like to refuse her old friend,
Mrs. Lovel; and then Lady Anna was Lady Anna,--or at any rate would be so, as far as the newspapers
of the day were concerned. Miss Fitzwarren allowed herself to be attired in white and blue,
and to officiate in the procession,--having, however, assured her most intimate friend, Miss
De Moleyns, that no consideration on earth should induce her to allow herself to be kissed
by the tailor.

In the week previous to the arrival of Daniel Thwaite, Lady Anna again ingratiated herself
with the ladies at the rectory. During the days of her persecution she had been silent and
apparently hard;--but now she was again gentle, yielding, and soft. "I do like her manner,
all the same," said Minnie. "Yes, my dear. It's a pity that it should be as it is to be, because
she is very nice." Minnie loved her friend, but thought it to be a thing of horror that her
friend should marry a tailor. It was almost as bad as the story of the Princess who had to
marry a bear;--worse indeed, for Minnie did not at all believe that the tailor would ever turn
out to be a gentleman, whereas she had been sure from the first that the bear would turn into
a prince.

Daniel came to Yoxham, and saw very little of anybody at the rectory. He was taken in at the
house of a neighbouring squire, where he dined as a matter of course. He did call at the rectory,
and saw his bride,--but on that occasion he did not even see the rector. The squire took him
to the church in the morning, dressed in a blue frock coat, brown trousers, and a grey cravat.
He was very much ashamed of his own clothes, but there was nothing about him to attract attention
had not everybody known he was a tailor. The rector shook hands with him politely but coldly.
The ladies were more affectionate; and Minnie looked up into his face long and anxiously. "He
wasn't very nice," she said afterwards, "but I thought he'd be worse than that!" When the marriage
was over he kissed his wife, but made no attempt upon the bridesmaids. Then there was a breakfast
at the rectory,--which was a very handsome bridal banquet. On such occasions the part of the
bride is always easily played. It is her duty to look pretty if she can, and should she fail
in that,--as brides usually do,--her failure is attributed to the natural emotions of the occasion.
The part of the bridegroom is more difficult. He should be manly, pleasant, composed, never
flippant, able to say a few words when called upon, and quietly triumphant. This is almost
more than mortal can achieve, and bridegrooms generally manifest some shortcomings at the awful
moment. Daniel Thwaite was not successful. He was silent and almost morose. When Lady Fitzwarren
congratulated him with high-flown words and a smile,--a smile that was intended to combine
something of ridicule with something of civility,--he almost broke down in his attempt to answer
her. "It is very good of you, my lady," said he. Then she turned her back and whispered a word
to the parson, and Daniel was sure that she was laughing at him. The hero of the day was the
Solicitor-General. He made a speech, proposing health and prosperity to the newly-married couple.
He referred, but just referred, to the trial, expressing the pleasure which all concerned had
felt in recognising the rights and rank of the fair and noble bride as soon as the facts of
the case had come to their knowledge. Then he spoke of the truth and long-continued friendship
and devoted constancy of the bridegroom and his father, saying that in the long experience
of his life he had known nothing more touching or more graceful than the love which in early
days had sprung up between the beautiful young girl and her earliest friend. He considered
it to be among the happinesses of his life that he had been able to make the acquaintance of
Mr. Daniel Thwaite, and he expressed a hope that he might long be allowed to regard that gentleman
as his friend. There was much applause, in giving which the young Earl was certainly the loudest.
The rector could not bring himself to say a word. He was striving to do his duty by the head
of his family, but he could not bring himself to say that the marriage between Lady Anna Lovel
and the tailor was a happy event. Poor Daniel was compelled to make some speech in reply to
his friend, Sir William. "I am bad at speaking," said he, "and I hope I shall be excused. I
can only say that I am under deep obligation to Sir William Patterson for what he has done
for my wife."

The couple went away with a carriage and four horses to York, and the marriage was over. "I
hope I have done right," said the rector in whispered confidence to Lady Fitzwarren.

"I think you have, Mr. Lovel. I'm sure you have. The circumstances were very difficult, but
I am sure you have done right. She must always be considered as the legitimate child of her
father."

"They say so," murmured the rector sadly.

"Just that. And as she will always be considered to be the Lady Anna, you were bound to treat
her as you have done. It was a pity that it was not done earlier, so that she might have formed
a worthier connection. The Earl, however, has not been altogether overlooked, and there is
some comfort in that. I dare say Mr. Thwaite may be a good sort of man, though he is--not just
what the family could have wished." These words were undoubtedly spoken by her ladyship with
much pleasure. The Fitzwarrens were poor, and the Lovels were all rich. Even the young Earl
was now fairly well to do in the world,--thanks to the generosity of the newly-found cousin.
It was, therefore, pleasant to Lady Fitzwarren to allude to the family misfortune which must
in some degree alloy the prosperity of her friends. Mr. Lovel understood it all, and sighed;
but he felt no anger. He was grateful to Lady Fitzwarren for coming to his house at all on
so mournful an occasion.

And so we may bid farewell to Yoxham. The rector was an honest, sincere man, unselfish, true
to his instincts, genuinely English, charitable, hospitable, a doer of good to those around
him. In judging of such a character we find the difficulty of drawing the line between political
sagacity and political prejudice. Had he been other than he was, he would probably have been
less serviceable in his position.

The bride and bridegroom went for their honeymoon into Devonshire, and on their road they passed
through London. Lady Anna Thwaite,--for she had not at least as yet been able to drop her title,--wrote
to her mother telling her of her arrival, and requesting permission to see her. On the following
day she went alone to Keppel Street and was admitted. "Dear, dear mamma," she said, throwing
herself into the arms of her mother.

"So it is done?" said the Countess.

"Yes;--mamma,--we are married. I wrote to you from York."

"I got your letter, but I could not answer it. What could I say? I wish it had not been so;--but
it is done. You have chosen for yourself, and I will not reproach you."

"Do not reproach me now, mamma."

"It would be useless. I will bear my sorrows in silence, such as they are. Do not talk to me
of him, but tell me what is the life that is proposed for you."

They were to stay in the south of Devonshire for a month and then to sail for the new colony
founded at the Antipodes. As to any permanent mode of life no definite plan had yet been formed.
They were bound for Sydney, and when there, "my husband,"--as Lady Anna called him, thinking
that the word might be less painful to the ears of her mother than the name of the man who
had become so odious to her,--would do as should seem good to him. They would at any rate learn
something of the new world that was springing up, and he would then be able to judge whether
he would best serve the purpose that he had at heart by remaining there or by returning to
England. "And now, mamma, what will you do?"

"Nothing," said the Countess.

"But where will you live?"

"If I could only find out, my child, where I might die, I would tell you that."

"Mamma, do not talk to me of dying."

"How should I talk of my future life, my dear? For what should I live? I had but you, and you
have left me."

"Come with me, mamma."

"No, my dear. I could not live with him nor he with me. It will be better that he and I should
never see each other again."

"But you will not stay here?"

