The inner surface of the hurds usually bears a layer of pith, consisting of thin-walled cells
nearly spherical or angular, but not elongated. They are more or less crushed and torn. They
are probably of little value for paper, but they constitute less than 1 per cent of the weight
of the hurds. The principal weight and bulk consist of slender elongated woody cells. The outer
surface is covered with fine secondary fibers composed of slender elongated cells, tougher
than those of the wood but finer and shorter than those of the hemp fiber of commerce. No method
has been devised thus far which completely separates from the hurds all of the long fiber.
From 5 to 15 per cent of the weight of the hurds consists of hemp fiber, in strands from 3
inches to 8 feet in length. Some fragments of the bark, made up of short cubical cells, usually
dark in color, cling to the strands of fiber.

=CHARACTER OF HURDS AFFECTED BY RETTING.=

Nearly all of the hemp in the United States is dew retted. The stalks are spread on the ground
in swaths as grain is laid by the cradle. The action of the weather, dew, and rain, aided by
bacteria, dissolves and washes out the green coloring matter (chlorophyll) and most of the
gums, leaving only the fibrous bark and the wood. The plants in this process lose about 60
per cent of their green weight, or about 40 per cent of their air-dry weight.

The stalks are sometimes set up in shocks to cure before retting, and after retting they are
set up in shocks to dry. Each time the stalks are handled they are chucked down on the ground
to keep the butts even. In these operations sand and clay are often driven up into the hollow
at the base of the stalks, and this dirt, which often clings tenaciously, may constitute all
objectionable feature in the use of hemp hurds for paper stock.

In Italy and in most localities in Russia and Austria-Hungary where hemp is extensively cultivated,
it is retted in water, but water retting has never been practiced in the United States except
to a limited extent before the middle of the last century. Hurds from water-retted hemp are
cleaner and softer than those from dew-retted hemp.

The fiber is sometimes broken from dry hemp stalks without retting. The hurds thus produced
contain a small percentage of soluble gums, chiefly of the pectose series. Comparatively little
hemp is prepared in this manner in America.

Process retting by means of weak solutions of chemicals or oils in hot water is practiced to
a limited extent. The hurds from these processes may contain traces of the chemicals or oils
and also soluble gums in greater degree than those of the dew-retted or water-retted hemp.

=PROPORTION OF HURDS TO FIBER AND YIELD PER ACRE.=

The yield of hemp fiber varies from 400 to 2,500 pounds per acre, averaging 1,000 pounds under
favorable conditions. The weight of hurds is about five times that of the fiber, or somewhat
greater from hemp grown on peaty soils. A yield of 2-1/2 tons of hurds per acre may be taken
as a fair average.

=HURDS AVAILABLE FROM MACHINE-BROKEN HEMP.=

Hemp hurds are available only from hemp which is broken by machines, when the hurds may be
collected in quantity in one place (figs. 1 and 2). Most of the hemp in Kentucky is still broken
by hand brakes. These small brakes are moved from shock to shock, so that the hurds are scattered
all over the field in small piles of less than 50 pounds each, and it is the common practice
to set fire to them as soon as the brake is moved. It would be difficult to collect them at
a cost which would permit their use for paper stock.

Where machine brakes are used, the hemp stalks are brought to the machine as grain is brought
to a thrashing machine, and the hurds accumulate in large piles, being blown from the machine
by wind stackers.

Machine brakes are used in Wisconsin, Indiana, Ohio, and California, but to only a limited
extent in Kentucky. Five different kinds of machine brakes are now in actual use in this country,
and still others are used in Europe. All of the best hemp in Italy, commanding the highest
market price paid for any hemp, is broken by machines. The better machine brakes now in use
in this country prepare the fiber better and much more rapidly than the hand brakes, and they
will undoubtedly be used in all localities where hemp raising is introduced as a new industry.
They may also be used in Kentucky when their cost is reduced to more reasonable rates, so that
they may compete with the hand brake. Hemp-breaking machines are being improved and their use
is increasing. The hemp-growing industry can increase in this country only as machine brakes
are developed to prepare the fiber. A profitable use for the hurds will add an incentive to
the use of the machine brake.

=PRESENT USES OF HEMP HURDS.=

Hemp hurds are used to a limited extent for barnyard litter and stable bedding, as a substitute
for sawdust in packing ice, and, in rare instances, for fuel. They are not regarded as having
a commercial value for any of these uses, though they are doubtless worth at least $1 per ton
on the farm when used for stable bedding. They are a waste product, without value for other
purposes which might compete with their use for paper stock.

=PRESENT SUPPLIES OF HURDS AVAILABLE.=

During the last season, 1915, about 1,500 acres of hemp have been harvested outside of Kentucky
and in regions where machine brakes are used. Estimating the yield of hurds at 2-1/2 tons per
acre, this should give a total quantity of about 3,750 tons. Large quantities of hemp from
the crop of 1914, which are still unbroken in these areas, and large piles of hurds undisturbed
where the machines have been used during the last two or three years, increase the total to
more than 7,000 tons. Hemp is now grown outside of Kentucky in the vicinity of McGuffey, east
of Lima, Ohio; around Nappanee, Elkhart County, and near Pierceton, in Kosciusko County, Ind.;
about Waupun and Brandon, Wis.; and at Rio Vista and Stockton, Cal.

In Kentucky, hemp is grown in most of the counties within a radius of 50 miles of Lexington.
No accurate statistics of the acreage are collected, but the crop harvested in 1915 is estimated
at 7,000 acres. A machine brake will probably be used in Bourbon County and also in Clark County,
but most of the hemp in Kentucky will be broken on hand brakes.

=BALING FOR SHIPMENT.=

The hurds will have to be baled to facilitate handling in transportation and to economize storage
space at the paper mills. The bales will need to be covered with burlap or some material to
keep them from shaking out. They may be baled in the same presses that are used for baling
hemp fiber, but care must be exercised to avoid breaking the press, for the hurds are more
resistant than hemp fiber. A bale of hemp 2 by 3 by 4 feet weighs about 500 pounds. A bale
of hurds of the same size will weigh about one-third less, or approximately six bales per ton.

Rough hemp fiber as it is shipped from the farm is not covered; therefore, the covering material
must be purchased especially for the hurds. A piece of burlap about 36 by 48 inches placed
on either side of the bale will be sufficient, but these pieces, weighing about 3 pounds each,
cost about 40 cents a pair. Baling rope, in addition to jute covering, will cost at least 5
cents per bale, making the total cost of covering and ties $2.70 or more per ton. Possibly
chip-board, costing about $33 per ton, or not more than 5 cents for the two pieces for each
bale, may be used in place of burlap. Chip-board, burlap, and also rope ties may all be used
for paper stock. Burlap covers might be returned, to be used repeatedly until worn out, but
chip-board could not be used more than once.

=COST OF BALING.=

If burlap covers are used the cost of baling, including covering, ties, use of baling press,
power, and labor will amount to at least 60 cents per bale, or about $3.75 per ton. If chip-board
can be used the cost may be reduced to about $2 per ton. The cost of hauling and loading on
the cars will vary from $1 to $3 per ton, depending upon the distance and the roads. The farmer
must therefore receive from $4 to $6 per ton for the hurds, baled, on board cars at his home
station.

They are not used at present for any purpose that would compete with their use for paper.

Hurds are available only from machine-broken hemp, for the cost of collecting them from the
hand brakes would be too great.

About 7,000 tons are now available in restricted localities in Ohio, Indiana, Wisconsin, and
California.

The quantity is likely to increase as the use of machine brakes increases.

The hurds may be baled in hemp-fiber presses, with partial burlap covers like those on cotton
bales, or possibly chip-board covers.

It is estimated that the farmers may deliver the bales on board cars profitably at $4 to $6
per ton.

THE MANUFACTURE OF PAPER FROM HEMP HURDS.

=INTRODUCTION.=

The purpose of this paper is to report upon preliminary tests which were conducted to determine
the paper-making value of hemp hurds, a crop waste of the hemp-fiber industry.

The search for plant materials capable of being utilized in paper manufacture is a comparatively
recent but world-wide activity which has for its object the husbanding of present sources of
paper-stock supply by the substitution of new materials for some of those which are rapidly
becoming less plentiful and more costly.

The abstract idea of utilizing that which is at present a waste can play no important rôle
in such activities, the successful commercial outcome of which must be based on the three fundamental
factors--market or demand for product, satisfactory raw material, and cost.

Since hemp hurds are to be treated in this report as a raw material for the manufacture of
book and printing papers, the qualities, supply, probable future, and cost of the material
will be considered in comparison with wood, with which it must compete. There seems to be little
doubt that the present wood supply can not withstand indefinitely the demands placed upon it,
and with increased scarcity economy in the use of wood will become imperative. This effect
is already apparent in many wood-using industries, and although the paper industry consumes
only about 3 per cent of the total forest cut, it is probable that it will be affected through
this economy. Our forests are being cut three times as fast as they grow, and as wood becomes
more expensive proper growing and reforesting will receive more attention. Thus, naturally,
a balance will be established between production and consumption, but as this condition approaches
its limiting values the price of wood may rise to such levels that there will be a demand for
other raw materials.

The use of waste paper in conjunction with chemical wood pulp has increased to enormous proportions,
and it is probable that the increase will continue. Although it is a cheaper raw material than
wood, it is reasonable to suppose that as the wood supply decreases and the price of wood pulp
advances, the price of waste paper will advance somewhat proportionately.

In view of these conditions it is advisable to investigate the paper-making value of the more
promising plant materials before a critical situation arises. To be of substantial value the
investigations should include not only a determination of the quality and quantity of pulp
and paper which the material is capable of producing, but should embrace a consideration of
such relevant factors as agricultural conditions, farm practice, assembling conditions, transportation,
and probable future supply.

Certain cultivated plants seem particularly promising, because in the harvesting of the regular
crop that portion which might be utilized for paper manufacture necessarily is either wholly
or partially assembled. To this class of plants belong corn, broom corn, sorghum, sugar cane,
bagasse, flax, hemp, and the cereal straws.[1]

[Footnote 1: For descriptions of investigations of some of these crops, see the list of publications
at the end of this bulletin.]

It is generally conceded that the employment of different raw materials would probably yield
products of a somewhat different quality than those now prevailing in the markets, but the
qualities of papers and the public demands are so diversified and numerous that this possible
objection should not be serious. Ten years ago sulphite manufacturers would not accept consignments
of spruce logs if they contained over 5 per cent of fir, while to-day many manufacturers tolerate
50 per cent. Rope papers are found to contain not only jute, but when this raw material is
not plentiful, chemical pulp of various kinds. "Linen paper" is often no more than a trade
term. Not long ago printing papers were made entirely from chemical wood pulp, but to-day if
it is desired to secure paper which is free from ground wood the specifications must so stipulate.
Writing papers, formerly made entirely from rags, now are likely to contain either chemical
or even ground-wood pulp unless the specifications prohibit it. Without doubt, many paper manufacturers
have maintained certain papers up to a fixed standard for a long series of years, but it is
equally true that competition has lowered the standard of a great many papers, some of which
had acquired a distinctive recognition. The employment of plant fibers will not necessarily
lower the present quality of papers, but if their employment does result in products whose
qualities are somewhat different from our so-called standard papers it does not necessarily
follow that such papers will not find a ready market.

=FACTORS JUSTIFYING AN INVESTIGATION OF HEMP HURDS.=

Hemp hurds form a crop waste, in that they necessarily are produced in the raising and preparation
of hemp fiber, and their present use and value are comparatively insignificant.

The assembling of the hurds may be effected with economy, since the area in which hemp is handled
with the use of machine brakes is restricted. Although it must be stated that the present annual
supply would not be sufficient to justify the installation of a pulp mill nor would its transportation
to existing mills appear feasible, it is expected that the available annual tonnage, especially
in certain general sections, will increase, due to the increased use of the machine brake.
The present tonnage per annum is approximately as follows: In the region of Ohio and Indiana,
2,500 tons; in the Wisconsin section, 1,000 tons; in the California region, 1,400 tons.

In years of adverse weather conditions there are often large areas of hemp which are not harvested
on account of its poor quality; there are also large areas of cut hemp which become overretted,
due to inclement weather. It has been suggested by some of the hemp raisers that this large
amount of material might be utilized as a paper stock. In these cases the cost of the whole
material would probably be somewhat higher than that of the hurds, because either all or part
of the cost of harvesting and the total cost of breaking would have to be borne by the paper
maker. Moreover, the quality of this material would be so very irregular and the supply so
uncertain that it probably would not appeal to the paper manufacturer.

Without doubt, hemp will continue to be one of the staple agricultural crops of the United
States. The wholesale destruction of the supply by fire, as frequently happens in the case
of wood, is precluded by the very nature of the hemp-raising industry. Since only one year's
growth can be harvested annually the supply is not endangered by the pernicious practice of
overcropping, which has contributed so much to the present high and increasing cost of pulp
wood. The permanency of the supply of hemp hurds thus seems assured.

The favorable location geographically of the hemp regions in relation to the pulp and paper
industry is a factor of considerable importance. The Kentucky region is not at present in a
position to supply hurds, as machine methods have not been adopted there to any appreciable
degree. The Ohio and Indiana region, which at present has the greatest annual tonnage, with
the prospect of an increase, is situated south of the Wisconsin and Michigan wood-pulp producing
region and at a distance from the eastern wood-pulp producing regions; therefore, it is in
a favorable position to compete in the large Ohio and Indiana markets. Since, as will be shown,
the hurd pulp acts far more like soda poplar stock than sulphite stock, competition would be
strongest from the eastern mills; in fact, the hurd stock might very possibly meet with favor
as a book-stock furnish in the Michigan and Wisconsin paper mills, which are within the sulphite
fiber-producing region. Because of its very close proximity to paper mills, this latter possibility
applies with far greater force to the Wisconsin hemp region, where a considerable extension
of the hemp industry is anticipated.

=CHARACTER OF THE MATERIAL.=

As received from Pierceton, Ind., the hurds consisted of a mixture of tangled hemp bast fibers
and pieces of broken wood of the hemp stalk. (Fig. 3.) No reliable data were secured as to
the proportion of bast fiber in the total shipment of 4 tons, although two hand separations
of small representative samples gave results averaging 8 per cent. The chemical character of
the material was such and the quantity was so small that any appreciable variation of the proportion
should not affect materially the treating processes finally adopted, yet its presence in varying
proportions undoubtedly would modify to some extent the quality of the resulting paper product.
Since the length of the ultimate bast fiber averages about 22 mm. and the length of the ultimate
hemp wood fiber averages 0.7 mm., it is natural to assume that the bast fiber would tend to
increase the strength of paper produced from the hurds. (Fig. 4.)

The broken pieces of wood contained in the hurds varied in length from mere particles which
were somewhat finer than sawdust to pieces about 3-1/2 inches long, exceptional pieces being
found which measured 6 inches in length. The majority of the long pieces were between 2 and
3 inches in length. In thickness the pieces ranged from one-eighth of an inch, in case they
were derived from the base of the hemp stalks, to about one sixty-fourth of an inch in those
pieces which were derived from the top and branches of the stalks. In cross section the pieces
often were found to be a quarter or half of the rounded rectangular woody shell of the stalk,
although there appeared to be no regularity in this respect.

From the pulp-maker's standpoint the great irregularity in thickness, length, and mass of the
woody pieces militates decidedly against economy in pulp production. The smaller pieces reduce
by chemical treatment sooner than the larger fragments and are thereby overtreated, which results
in a lower yield of cellulose fiber and a product composed of undertreated and overtreated
fibers, the production and use of which are not satisfactory or economical. It probably would
be found more satisfactory, therefore, to screen or sort the hurds and treat the various sizes
separately and differently.

Associated with the hurds was a small quantity of chaff and dirt, composed chiefly of sand,
soil, particles of hemp leaves and flowers, and other extraneous matter. The sand and soil
were present because of the practice of placing the stalks in shocks in the field, the butts
of the stalks being in contact with the soil. It is a simple matter, however, to remove the
chaff and dirt by sieving, and this practice was followed in most of the paper tests conducted
with this material.

=CHARACTER OF THE TESTS.=

Because of the similarity of hemp hurds to other materials which have been tested by the Office
of Paper-Plant Investigations, semicommercial tests were conducted in cooperation with a paper
manufacturer without preliminary laboratory tests. Laboratory pulp and paper tests are regarded
only as a preliminary to semicommercial tests and therefore are not employed unless the material
in question presents new features which should receive investigation before larger sized tests
are undertaken.

The advantages of cooperative mill tests are many, among which may be mentioned the counsel
and advice of the mill management and employees, the services of specialized and skilled labor,
facilities for comparing the processes and the results of tests with commercial processes and
results, and the use of commercial or semicommercial types and sizes of machinery. Tests conducted
in this manner and on this scale are of a different quality than is possible in those conducted
in a laboratory, and the results are susceptible of commercial interpretation with a fair degree
of reliability. It is found, in general, that the cost of securing such equipment and service
for a complete and comprehensive test does not exceed $500, while the installation of an equally
satisfactory equipment alone would cost at least $50,000 and in many cases very much more.
Tests conducted in this manner constitute a direct demonstration to the manufacturer, and the
results obtained are found to carry more weight when presented to other manufacturers for consideration.

It is well known that the method of conducting tests necessarily varies with the size of the
test. In the matter of yield determination, for example, laboratory tests may be on such a
small scale that the weighing and sampling of the resulting cellulose fibers may be conducted
by means of chemical laboratory apparatus and analytical balance, while in tests involving
a matter of 5 to 10 pounds of material larger and different types of equipment are necessary.
When the tests are so increased in size as to employ 300 or 400 pounds, still other types of
equipment are necessary for the treatment of the material and for a determination of the yield
of fiber. In tests involving tons of material the equipment involves the use of machines. Accuracy
in degree of control and in results will vary materially with the size of the test. As the
size of the test increases, certain factors will vary in a beneficial manner, while others
will vary in a detrimental manner, so it is a question for each investigator to decide, after
taking all factors into consideration, as to the size of test which will give the most satisfactory
results. In work of this nature it is found, on the whole, that better results are obtained
in large tests, although the control of the factors and the determination of the yield of fiber
are more difficult than in smaller tests.

In the tests described in this bulletin, the Department of Agriculture employed a rotary digester
of its own design,[2] comprising a shell 5 feet 5 inches in length by 4 feet in diameter, capable
of holding about 300 pounds of air-dry hurds. It is believed that a test of this size is large
enough to give satisfactory results and that the results are susceptible of commercial interpretation,
while at the same time they are sufficiently small for complete control and to afford fiber-yield
figures which are both accurate and reliable. Two such rotary charges gave enough fiber for
one complete paper-making test.

[Footnote 2: For a description of this rotary digester, see Brand, C. J., and Merrill, J. L.,
Zacaton as a paper-making material, U. S. Dept. Agr. Bul. 309, p. 28, 1915.]

=OPERATIONS INVOLVED IN A TEST.=

A complete test on hurds comprises seven distinct operations, and the method will be described,
operation by operation, in the order in which they were conducted.

Sieving.--The hurds for the first test were not sieved to remove sand and dirt, but the resulting
paper was so dirty that sieving was practiced in all subsequent tests. The hurds were raked
along a horizontal galvanized-iron screen, 15 feet long and 3 feet wide, with 11-1/2 meshes
per linear inch, the screen being agitated by hand from below. Various amounts of dirt and
chaff could be removed, depending on the degree of action, but it was found that if much more
than 3 per cent of the material was removed it consisted chiefly of fine pieces of wood with
practically no additional sand or dirt; in most of the tests, therefore, the material was screened
so as to remove approximately 3 per cent. It became apparent that a finer screen would probably
serve as well and effect a saving of small but good hurds.

Cooking.--Cooking is the technical term for the operation by which fibrous raw materials are
reduced to a residue of cellulose pulp by means of chemical treatment. In these tests about
300 pounds of hurds were charged into the rotary with the addition of a caustic-soda solution,
such as is regularly employed in pulp mills and which tested an average of 109.5 grams of caustic
soda per liter, or 0.916 pound per gallon, and averaged 85 per cent causticity. Sufficient
caustic solution was added to furnish 25 or 30 per cent of actual caustic soda, calculated
on the bone-dry weight of hurds in the charge. After closing the rotary head, it was started
rotating at the rate of one-half revolution per minute, and in about five minutes steam at
120 pounds per square inch was admitted at such a rate that the charge was heated in one hour
to 170° C., which is the theoretical equivalent of 100 pounds of steam pressure per square
inch. It was found, however, that when the temperature reached 170° C. the pressure was usually
115 or 120 pounds instead of 100 pounds, due to air and gases inclosed in the rotary. At this
point the rotary was stopped and steam and air relieved until the pressure dropped to 100 pounds,
or a solid steam pressure. The temperature was maintained at this point for the number of hours
required to reduce the hurds, which was found to be about five, after which the rotary was
stopped and steam relieved until the pressure was reduced to zero, when the head was removed
and the stock was emptied into a tank underneath, measuring 5-1/2 by 6 by 2 feet deep, where
it was drained and washed. Samples of waste soda solution or "black liquor," which were taken
from some of the "cooks" for analysis, were drawn while the stock was being thus emptied into
the drainer.

Determination of yield.--For determining the yield of cellulose fiber the stock in the drain
tank was washed with water until free from waste soda solution, when, by means of a vacuum
pump communicating with the space between the bottom and the false perforated bottom, the water
was sucked from the stock, leaving the fiber with a very uniform moisture content throughout
its entire mass and in a condition suitable for removing, sampling, and weighing for a yield
determination. Tests have shown that it is possible to sample and calculate the yield of bone-dry
fiber within 0.05 per cent of the actual amount.

It has been found that stocks from different materials vary greatly in their ability to mat
in the drain tank, thereby enabling a good vacuum to be obtained, some stocks permitting a
25-inch vacuum to be obtained, while others will not permit more than 5 inches. For this reason
the moisture content of the stock will vary from 65 to 85 per cent.

Washing and bleaching.--Washing and bleaching were performed for the purpose of bleaching the
brown-colored cooked stock to a white product, since it was regarded as highly probable that
the fiber would be suitable for book-paper manufacture. The colored stock was charged into
a 400-pound beating and washing engine of regular construction and washed about one hour, the
cylinder washer being covered with 60-mesh wire cloth in order to remove fine loose dirt and
chemical residues. The washer was then raised, the stock heated by steam to about 40° C., and
a solution of commercial bleaching powder was added in the quantity judged to be necessary,
after which the stock was pumped to a large wooden tank, to remain and bleach over night. If
the stock was bleached sufficiently white it was drained and washed from bleach residues, and
if not more bleach was added until a good color was obtained. The bleaching powder used was
estimated to contain 35 per cent of available chlorin, as this is the commercial practice,
and the amount required was calculated to the bone-dry weight of the unbleached stock. More
bleach is required for undercooked stock than for stock which is properly cooked or overcooked;
therefore, the percentage of bleach required is an indication of the quality of the cooked
stock. Since bleaching is usually more expensive than cooking, it is desirable to cook to such
a degree that the consumption of bleach will be held within certain limits, depending on the
raw materials used and the quality of paper to be produced. In these tests it was desirable
so to cook the hurds that the consumption of bleach would not be over about 10 per cent of
the fiber.

Furnishing.--Furnishing is the operation of charging the beating engine with the desired kind
or kinds of fiber in the proper proportion and amount and the adding of such loading and sizing
agents as may be necessary. As shown in the record of results, the furnish in these tests consisted
of hurd stock alone and of various proportions of hurds, sulphite fiber, and soda fiber. The
percentages to be given in the record of the furnishes refer to the percentage of the total
fiber furnish, and this likewise applies to the loading and sizing agents. In case sulphite
or soda fiber was used, the commercial product in the dry state was charged into the beating
engine and disintegrated, after which the hurd stock was added in the wet condition.

Beating.--Beating is that operation concerning which the paper makers often say "there is where
the paper is really made," and although the statement may not be literally true it contains
a great deal of truth. It is the operation whereby the fibers are separated from each other,
reduced to the proper lengths, and put in such a physical or chemical condition that they felt
properly and form into a satisfactory sheet. It is probable that the quality of the sheet depends
more upon the proper beater action than upon any other single operation. The action consists
in drawing a water suspension of the fiber between two sets of rather blunt knives, one set
being located in the bottom of a circulating trough and the other set on the periphery of a
roll revolving just above the former set of knives. It is during this operation that the loading
and sizing agents are incorporated and the whole furnish is tinted either to produce a satisfactory
white or the desired color.

