It could never be forgiven! the cut direct was unanimously agreed on, and the little lady turned
up her little nose in disdain, as her handsome barouche rolled past the lumbering carriage
of the Right Honourable Lord Headerton. She persuaded her husband to purchase that beautiful
villa, in view of the family domain, that she might have more frequent opportunities of bringing,
as she elegantly expressed it, "the proud beggars to their trumps;--and why not?--money's money,
all the world over." The Honourable Mister Augustus depended on his agent for the purchase,
and some two thousand and odd pounds were consequently paid, or said to have been paid, for
it, more than its value. And then commenced the general warfare; full purse and empty head--versus
no purse, and old nobility. They had the satisfaction of ruining each other--the full purse
was emptied by devouring duns, and the old nobility suffered by its connexion with vulgarity.

"I want to know, Honourable Mister Augustus Headerton"--(the lady always gave the full name
when addressing her husband; she used to say it was all she got for her money),--"I want to
know, Honourable Mister Augustus Headerton, the reason why the music master's lessons, given
to the Misses Headerton (they were blessed with seven sweet pledges of affection), have not
been paid for? I desired the steward to see to it, and you know I depend on him to settle these
matters."

The Honourable Mrs. Augustus Headerton rang the bell--"Send Martin up."

"Mister Martin," the lady began, "what is the reason that Mr. Langi's account has not been paid?"

"My master, ma'am knows that I have been anxious for him to look over the accounts; the goings-out
are so very great, and the comings-in, as far as I know"--The Honourable Mister Augustus Headerton
spilt some of the whiskey-punch he was drinking, over a splendid hearth-rug, which drew the
lady's attention from what would have been an unpleasant eclaircissement.

"I cannot understand why difficulties should arise. I am certain I brought a fortune large
enough for all extravagance," was the lady's constant remark when expenditure was mentioned.
Years pass over the heads of the young--and they grow old; and over the heads of fools--but
they never grow wise.

The Honourable Mister and Mistress Augustus Headerton were examples of this truth;--their children
grew up around them--but could derive no support from their parent root. The mother had depended
on governesses and masters for the education of her girls--and on their beauty, connexions,
or accomplishments, to procure them husbands. The father did not deem the labours of study
fit occupation for the sons of an ancient house:--"Depend upon it," he would say, "they'll
all do well with my connexions--they will be able to command what they please." The Honourable
Mistress Augustus could not now boast of a full purse, for they had long been living on the
memory of their once ample fortune.

The Honourable Mister Augustus Headerton died, in the forty-fifth year of his age, of inflammation,
caught in an old limekiln, where he was concealed to avoid an arrest for the sum of 180 guineas,
for black Nell, the famous filly, who won the cup on the Curragh of Kildare--purchased in his
name, but without his knowledge, by his second son, the pride of the family--commonly called
dashing Dick.

All I know further of the Honourable Mistress Augustus Headerton is, that

  "She played at cards, and died."

Miss Georgiana--the beauty, and greatest fool of the family, who depended on her face as a
fortune, did get a husband--an old, rich West India planter, and eloped, six months after marriage,
with an officer of dragoons.

