The refrain of Poe's even then celebrated poem was ringing through my brain on that sultry
August day, I remember, like a tolling bell, as I looked my last on the gloomy abode of the
La Vignes; but I only said aloud, in answer to the sympathizing glances of one who sat before
me--the gentle and quiet Marion--who had suddenly determined to accompany me to Savannah, nerved
with unwonted impulse:

"Madame de Staël was right when she said that 'nevermore' was the saddest and most expressive
word in the English tongue" (so harsh to her ears, usually). "I think she called it the sweetest,
too, in sound; but to me it is simply the most sorrowful, a knell of doom, and it fills my
soul to-day to overflowing, for 'never, never more' shall I look on Beauseincourt!"

"You cannot tell, Miss Harz, what time may do; you may still return to visit us in our retirement,
you and Captain Wentworth," urged Marion, gently, leaning forward, as she spoke, to take my
hand in hers.

"'Time the tomb-builder'" fell from my lips ere they were aware. "That is a grand thought--one
that I saw lately in a Western poem, the New-Year's address of a young editor of Kentucky called
Prentice. Is it not splendid, Marion?"

"Very awful, rather," she responded, with a faint shudder. "Time the 'comforter,' let us say,
instead, Miss Miriam--Time the 'veil-spreader.'"

"Why, Marion, you are quite poetic to-day, quite Greek! That is a sweet and tender saying of
yours, and I shall garner it. I stand reproved, my child. All honor to Time, the merciful,
whether he builds palaces or tombs! but none the less do I reverence my young poet for that
stupendous utterance of his soul. I shall watch the flight of that eaglet of the West with
interest from this hour! May he aspire!"

"Not if he is a Jackson Democrat?" broke in the usually gentle Alice Durand, fired with a ready
defiance of all heterodox policy, common, if not peculiar, to that region.

"Oh, but he is not; he is a good Whig instead--a Clay man, as we call such."

"Not a Calhoun man, though, I suppose, so I would not give a snap of my fingers for him or
his poetry! It is very natural, for you, Miss Harz," in a somewhat deprecating tone, "to praise
your partisans. I would not have you neutral if I could, it is so contemptible."

A little of the good doctor's spirit there, under all that exterior of meekness and modesty,
I saw at a glance, and liked her none the less for it, if truth were told. And now we were
nearing the gate, with its gray-stone pillars, on one of which, that from which the marble
ball had rolled, to hide in the grass beneath, perchance, until the end of all, I had seen
the joyous figure of Walter La Vigne so lightly poised on the occasion of my last exodus from
Beauseincourt. A moment's pause, and the difficult, disused bolts that had once exasperated
the patience of Colonel La Vigne were drawn asunder, and the clanking gates clashed behind
us as we emerged from the shadowed domain into the glare and dust of the high-road.

Here Major Favraud, accompanied by Duganne, awaited us, seated in state in his lofty, stylish
swung gig (with his tiny tiger behind), drawn tandem-wise by his high-stepping and peerless
blooded bays, Castor and Pollux. Brothers, like the twins of Leda, they had been bred in the
blue-grass region of Kentucky and the vicinity of Ashland, and were worthy of their ancient
pedigree, their perfect training and classic names, the last bestowed when he first became
their owner, by Major Favraud, who, with a touch of the whip or a turn of the hand, controlled
them to subjection, fiery coursers although they were!

