A passage in speech followed with breathless interest below Gangway dealt with increase of
super-tax. Chancellor set forth how what he called a "£3,500 man" would, in addition to ordinary
income-tax, pay 1.7d. in the £. Running up the gamut to "a £10,000 man" he mentioned that the
affluent citizen would oblige with an additional 8.9d.

"I can," he blandly added, "go further if anybody specially wants me."

General expression of sympathy with Houston when he asked what the £100,000 man would be called
upon to pay.

"The hon. gentleman," said the Chancellor, with encouraging smile bent on inquirer, "will be
let off with an additional 15.3d."

The Member for the Toxteth division of Liverpool didn't seem so pleased with this prospect
as might have been expected.

Business done.--Budget brought in.

Tuesday.--Lord "Bob" Cecil, whose industry is equalled only by his ingenuousness, posed the
Premier with awkward question. Wants to know "whether the Government propose to continue Sir
Nevil Macready's appointment as resident magistrate; if so, whether he will be able in that
capacity, in case of civil disturbance, to call upon himself as a military officer to give
assistance to the civil power?"

Suggests difficulty at first sight appalling. On historic occasion John Bright found himself
in analogous quandary. As he then protested in ear of sympathising House: "I cannot turn my
back upon myself." True that in the last three years of his political career he achieved the
apparently impossible. But exception does not make a rule.

More exact parallel found in case of eldest of Dr. Blimber's pupils. Mr. Toots, we know, occupied
his time at school chiefly in writing long letters to himself from persons of distinction addressed
"P. Toots, Esq., Brighton, Sussex," which with great care he preserved in his desk. Thus, in
case of emergency, Sir Nevil Macready, Resident Magistrate, might write to General Sir Nevil
Macready in command of troops in Ireland a note something to this effect:

"Sir,--From information received, I expect Ulster will be in a blaze before the end of the
week. Please hold yourself in readiness to co-ordinate the action of your troops with that
of the Royal Irish Constabulary.--Your obedient Servant, Nevil Macready, Resident Magistrate.
To Sir Nevil Macready, General in command of troops in Ireland."

Premier tried to explain away the situation. Remembering recreation of Mr. Toots, it is not
really so bad as Lord "Bob's" earnest desire for preservation of law and order in Ulster leads
him to fear.

Business done.--On motion of Prime Minister new Standing Order dealing with blocking motions
carried nemine contradicente.

House of Lords, Thursday,--The death of the Duke of Argyll leaves the House of Lords poorer
by withdrawal of a quiet, gracious presence. I talked with him here a few days before the Easter
recess. To-night the MacCailean Mhor, on his way to his last resting-place in the Highlands,
sleeps amid the stately silence of Westminster Abbey, unawakened by the noiseless footsteps
of the ghosts of great men dead. Thus in Plantagenet times the coffined body of the wife of
Edward I., brought from Lincoln to Westminster, halted by the way, Charing Cross being the
last of the nine resting-places of her bier.

A happy marriage which brought him into close kinship with the Sovereign forbade the Duke's
taking active part in political life. It gave him fuller opportunity for dallying with his
dearly-loved foster-mother, Literature. Endowed with the highest honours birth could give or
the Sovereign bestow, he bore them with a modesty that made others momentarily forget their
existence. Circumstances precluding his living at Inveraray Castle and keeping up its feudal
state, it was characteristic of him that he cheerily homed himself in a cottage some two miles
down the loch-side, originally built for a factor. Little by little he enlarged the residence
till Dalchenna House became a roomy mansion. Here, in company of a few choice companions, it
was his delight to stay during the autumn months. He kept to his study in the morning, engaged
in literary work or dealing with his vast correspondence. After luncheon he led his guests
forth, usually on foot, to tread the Highland ways he knew since boyhood, when as Marquis of
Lorne he presented the picture of manly beauty in Highland dress that to-day adorns the hall
of Inveraray Castle.

In later years he built for himself a châlet set amid the pine-trees of the ancient French
forest of Hardelot, within sight and sound and scent of the sea. Like Dalchenna this began
in a small way. Enamoured with the peace and rest that brooded over the place, he went on year
by year enlarging and embellishing it.

According to long-laid plans he was to have spent the Easter recess in his French retreat.
Almost at the last moment duty called him elsewhere, and, as was his wont, he uncomplainingly
obeyed. But he insisted that two old friends, whom he had bidden to keep Easter tryst with
him, should not alter their plans. So the châlet, with its dainty appointments and its domestic
establishment after the Duke's own heart--a French peasant and his wife, who acted as butler
and cook--was placed at their disposal, he bestowing infinite pains upon arrangements for their
comfort whilst under his roof.

This little episode, the most recent in a busy life, is a typical instance of his unselfishness
and untiring thought for others.

A scholar of wide reading, a man of shrewd judgment, and, as his government of Canada disclosed,
a statesman of high degree, he might have filled a part in public affairs at least as lofty
as that commanded by his distinguished father. Debarred from such career he was content to
live up to the highest standard of Christian conduct. If a line of commentary might be added
to the inscription on the coffin which to-morrow journeys northward to lie beside those of
the ten Dukes of Argyll at rest in the burial-place of the Campbells at Kilmun, here it is
written in one of the oldest of Books: "He went about doing good."

Business done.--Commons resume debate on Budget.

       *       *       *       *       *

FLORAL DANGERS.

  Dear, I do not send you flowers,
    Though I notice day by day
  That, 'neath Spring's recurring powers,
  All the shops are perfect bowers
    With the floral wealth of May;
  I could get you quite a heap,
  Fresh and reasonably cheap.

  Here is many a fragrant rose
    Mingling with the scented pea,
  Hyacinths whose odour flows
  Fondly to the grateful nose,
    These, and many more, there be;
  You should have them like a shot,
  But I think you'd bettor not.

  Science 'tis that bids me pause;
    'Tis by her the tale is told
  That, by Nature's mystic laws,
  Blossoms are a frequent cause
    Of a lady catching cold;
  Their aroma, so she says,
  Irritates the passages.

  Whether this is quite exact
    May be food for questioning;
  But, as it's a painful fact
  That your membrane is attacked
    Thus about the prime of Spring,
  I, who hold your welfare dear,
  May not leave it with a sneer.

  Wherefore, much though I aspire
    You, and you alone, to please,
  I refrain from this desire,
  For 'twould set my heart on fire
    If I made my lady wheeze;
  I should well-nigh perish if
  Aught from me should rouse a sniff.

Dum-Dum.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "In connection with the daily service at St. Enoch's Parish
    Church, it would be possible to have marriage celebrated at two
    o'clock on any particular week-day. That meant that in ordinary
    circumstances it would be possible to have marriage celebrated
    in St. Enoch's Church at two o'clock on any week day."--Glasgow
    Evening Times.

Left to ourselves, we were just arriving at the same conclusion.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Captain W. M. Turner joined Freeman, and played the best
    cricket of the day. He bit hard on the off-side."--Daily
    Telegraph.

We always move to the leg side of the field when Captain Turner comes in.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

AT THE PLAY.

"The Dangerous Age."

When there is a good deal of talk on the stage about a certain character, who however remains
"off" throughout the play and gives you no chance to discover for yourself what he is like,
then I have an instinctive distrust of him. If his name is as bad as Cecil he is practically
doomed. Betty Dunbar, widow, ran away from her rich sister's house and spent a night in London
with such a Cecil. Betty had arrived at the dangerous age of forty, and was temporarily and
ridiculously in love with this young bounder (as I felt him to be) of twenty-two. But the fact
that, at the very time when she was thus making a fool of herself in London, her younger son,
Jack, was falling off a tree and nearly killing himself in the country brought her to her senses.
When she returned to the country to find Jack at death's door, her love for Cecil died and
she could only think of him with hatred.

Now I can remember wondering, when I read The Vicar of Wakefield at an early and innocent age,
why Dr. Primrose was so anxious that his daughter Olivia should be married to the beast with
whom she had eloped, when it would be so much better for her if Thornhill left her (as he was
willing to do) and she returned unmarried to her father. I am older now, and I know that in
the good Vicar's opinion only thus could his daughter's "honour" be "preserved." But the world
is also older now, and perhaps the oldest person in it is the woman suffragist--such a one,
for instance, as Betty's elder sister, Ethel, who carried copies of Votes for Women about with
her when she strolled through the home park. That Ethel should share Dr. Primrose's ingenuous
views on this matter is unbelievable--by me, but not by the author. For she insisted, under
threat of cutting off supplies, that Betty should marry Cecil, and (so to speak) become a lady
again. Betty wisely refused, which left the way clear for Sir Egbert Englefield, and so brought
down the curtain. I haven't mentioned Sir Egbert before, but he was there or thereabouts all
the time, and being in the flesh Mr. H. V. Esmond, author of the play, it was obvious that
he would have the pull over any unseen Cecil in the final arrangement of partners.

Although Ethel appears to be impossible, and the other characters mostly conventional, The
Dangerous Age makes a very charming entertainment at the Vaudeville, a patchwork of humour
and pathos ingeniously woven together; of which the humour was as fresh and jolly as anything
I have heard on the stage, and the pathos put me in greater danger of being caught "blubbering
like a seal" than I have ever been before. It is to Masters Reginald Grasdorff and Roy Royston
that I owe my special thanks. Two more delightful boys on the stage cannot be imagined. Indeed
I was at least as sorry as Betty when Jack fell off his tree, for I knew then that I should
not see Master Roy again that evening. Fortunately Reginald remained, and acted with great
skill a part which suddenly became serious. But I wish Osborne boys on the stage wouldn't wear
their uniforms in the holidays when they climb trees. It emphasizes their Osbirth (if I may
use the word) at the expense of their boyishness. Miss Eva Moore and Mr. Esmond were excellent,
the latter playing a perfect Wyndham part without the Wyndham mannerisms. Mr. Leslie Banks,
representing an entirely incredible person, was exactly like somebody I knew; a feat, it seems
to me, of some skill.

M.

       *       *       *       *       *

"The Wynmartens."

When a young widow wants to commit a flagrant outrage on the proprieties in order to scandalise
a detested mother-in-law, and selects the first likely man for her accomplice, she will probably
not be deterred by fear of any damage that may occur to his reputation. When Lady Wynmarten
engaged the services of Bill Carrington she had the less compunction because he was only over
from India for a week and might rely upon the fresh air of the high seas to repair the damage
and displace the breath of scandal. Unfortunately, his very limited time in England had been
carefully scheduled for the execution of several important contracts; and when his firm heard
of his escapade and found him twenty minutes late for a business appointment, he was briefly
booted.

It was at this point that the critics began to think of taking notes on their cuffs about Browning's
views on the danger of "playing with souls," but found on reflection that the case was not
so serious as that. For we knew all the time (by the splendour of her frocks) that the lady
was rich, and we had gathered half-way through that she was prepared to accept Bill in marriage
and make an honest man of him. Not that their joint adventure had actually achieved immorality.
She had simply dined with him, done a play, had supper at the Savoy, gone on to a Covent Garden
ball, failed to effect an entrance into her house (having deliberately mislaid her latch-key
and cut the bell-wire), and been taken a little before milk-time to her mother-in-law's, where
her appearance had caused the greatest confusion and scandal, which was indeed the ultimate
purpose of the scheme. But the fatal devotion of her French maid, who telephoned next morning
to all her mistress's friends to say that her bed had not been slept in, and that a dark mystery
brooded over her whereabouts, tended to promote a garrulous interest in her conduct.

It was a sad pity that we were not permitted to witness any phase of this adventure. One seemed
to be assisting at a farce with the fun left out. I should have greatly enjoyed being present
at the moment when her ladyship claimed the hospitality of her mother-in-law's roof. But perhaps
this experience would have left me in a frame of mind too frivolous for the right reception
of the grave things that were to follow.

Yet the play was mixed of all moods, from gay to earnest, and offered excellent scope for the
versatility of Miss Marie Tempest. Mr. Clarence's humour, on the other hand, was not so well
served; and there were frequent longueurs during the episodes in which the Dowager Lady Wynmarten
figured. She was meant to be a terror, and had some very vicious things to say; but Miss Agnes
Thomas delivered them with superfluously well-bred restraint, and the level tone of her bitter
suavity tended to become a little tedious.

Mr. Graham Browne showed a very nice self-repression as the widow's dummy. But he let himself
go with his cigarettes which in moments of emotion he threw away with an appalling recklessness
after the first two whiffs.

The rest of the cast did ample justice to a play which, if it is Mr. Powell's first, must be
commended for its promise. But the next time he writes a Four-Act Comedy he must try and give
us more than one Act without any tea in it.

O. S.

       *       *       *       *       *

"MILESTONES."

(Ladies of the coloured hair school are reported to be painting dragons on their cheeks in
place of complexion spots.)

  When the world was very young
    And agog with derring-do,
  Knights went courting maids who hung
    Chained, for dragons' teeth to chew;
  Found their lass, and set her free,
    Having duly on the spot
  Slain the dragon (or, maybe,
    Having failed to slay, did not).

  Later, when your maid demure,
    Long of lash and coy of mien,
  Seemed a conquest swift and sure,
    Fiercer monsters stepped between:
  Mrs. Grundies, grey and grim,
    Kept Miss Proper closely tied;
  Beaus dissolved before the prim
    Portly dragon at her side.

  Now there dawns a lighter day;
    Chaperons are nearly dead;
  Undefended lies the way
    For your amorous wight to tread,
  Yet we still must pay our toll,
    We who woo the guarded rose:
  Frightful at the very goal
    Lurks the dragon by her nose.

  Modern maidens, if upon
    Cheeks that court the curious stare
  Voluntarily you don
    This insane pictorial wear,
  Know your tricks intrigue us not,
    Frankly, ladies, they appal;
  Out, I say, out, damnéd spot!
    We don't like your cheek at all.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SULTAN OF MOROCCO.

"It was here yesterday," I said. "I am quite sure I saw it."

"Saw what?" said the lady of the house.

"A letter," I said, "that required an answer."

"Well," she said, "there are about fifty letters of that kind on your table there. Why don't
you answer some of those? You can take your pick of them."

"Those are different," I said. "They've waited a long time, and it won't hurt them to wait
a little longer. The one I want came yesterday, and required an immediate answer. I remember
it quite distinctly."

"Why not answer it, then, without finding it? I'll dictate to you:--'Dear Sir or Madam,--In
answer to your obliging letter, I beg to say that I much regret I shall be unable to attend
the meeting of the blank committee on the blank of blank, owing to a previous engagement to
be present at the meeting of the blank association for the blank blank blank. I enclose herewith
my subscription of blank, and remain, with apologies for my delay, yours blankly, etc., etc.'
Fire away; you can't go wrong."

"I am not sure," I said, "that I like all those blanks. It's a good model, of course, but it's
just a bit too sketchy."

"If you remember the letter so perfectly you can fill in the blanks as you go along."

"I didn't say I remembered it so perfectly as all that. I remember getting it. I remember it
was marked 'Urgent and confidential' or 'Private and immediate,' or something of that kind,
and I remember putting it down on this writing-table and making up my mind to answer it at
once, but I don't remember who it was from----"

"Whom it was from."

"Amiable pedant! I don't remember who my importunate correspondent was, or what address he
or she wrote from, or what it was about. It was one of those letters that produce a general
sense of discomfort, the sort you want to forget but can't."

"Oh, but you can. I never heard of anything so completely forgotten as this unfortunate letter."

"Really," I said, "you drive me to despair. Can't you see that a man may remember the existence
of a letter without remembering all its petty details? For instance, I know there's a Sultan
of Morocco, but I don't know what he's like, or what his name is, or how he's dressed, or what
his exact colour is. Still, there he is, you know."

"Where?"

"Oh, I don't know. Morocco, I suppose, would find him."

"Then all you've got to do is to write him a respectful letter, saying that you can't accept
his Majesty's kind invitation to the small and early dance at the Palace."

"I am not," I said, "in a humour for frivolity. I want to write a letter."

"And I," she said proudly, "am doing my best to help you."

"I put it down on this writing-table, and one of you has moved it. Possibly it looked untidy,
and one of you has tidied it--you yourself, for choice. In that case I shall never, never find
it. To think that there is some one in the world who is eagerly expecting a letter from me,
who is watching for the postman as he comes on his rounds, who is constantly disappointed,
who lapses finally into a sullen acquiescence, who considers me unbusinesslike--and all because
you saw a letter which didn't please you, and so you tidied it away. After all, it's my writing-table,
and in future I won't have anyone at it except myself."

"Don't be harsh," she said. "How do you know any of us have been at what you call your table?"

"How do I know?" I said bitterly. "Look at these neat little packets of papers all put carefully
one on top of the other. Look at my pens, look at my bills, look at my cheque-book, look at
my notepaper and envelopes--I mean, don't look at them, because if you did you wouldn't see
them. They're tucked away out of sight, and all that is left to me is a blotting pad, on which
you have done several interesting money addition sums, and Peggy has drawn four Red Indians
in crayons, and Helen has tentatively written in ink the words 'alright' and 'allright.' Oh
yes, some of you have invaded my private domain and sat at my table, and have first scattered
and then re-asserted my papers."

At this moment John entered the room, came and stood beside me, and abstracted from the table
a pencil and a sheet of foolscap.

"There," I said, "you can see the result of your dreadful example. Even this innocent child
has learnt to pilfer my writing materials."

"John," said his mother, "would you like to search your father?"

"What's 'search'?" said John.

"Feel in his coat pockets and see if you can find a letter."

John was quite willing. He inserted a pudgy hand into one pocket after another, and finally
extracted a rather crumpled letter.

"Hurrah!" I said. "He's got it."

"What is it?" she said.

"It is a courteous communication from Messrs. Wilfer and Wontner, highly commending the virtues
of their renowned Hygeia tabloids, two to be taken daily after dinner."

"It's the most private and urgent letter I ever heard of. And now, I suppose, you'll withdraw
your most unjust decree against our using the writing-table."

"Not at all," I said; "I make it stricter than ever. If you hadn't used my table I should have
looked in my coat pocket and found the letter long ago."

"Anyhow," she said, "it's a comfort to think you won't have to write to the Sultan of Morocco."

R. C. L.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE LORD OF THE LEVIATHANS.

  There harbours somewhere in our midst to-day
    A visionary whom I long to meet;
  He shuns publicity, and yet his sway
    Is felt in many a teeming London street,
      From staid Stoke Newington to sylvan Sheen,
      From gay Mile End to high-browed Golder's Green.

  'Tis he who planned the routes for motor-bi,
    Who set them in the way that they should go,
  That Maida Vale might wot of Peckham Rye,
    That Walham Green might fraternise with Bow,
      For him a Norwood bus stormed Notting Hill,
      'Erb at the helm, Augustus at the till.

  "Tooting is fair," he mused, "but what of Kew?
    Shall Cricklewood and Balham be forgot?"
  Mindful of regions Barking never knew,
    He linked them up with that idyllic spot;,
      And then, his wild imaginings to crown,
      He ran a bus from Barnes to Camden Town.

  Dreamer of dreams! above the city's strife
    I picture him, in some lone eyrie pent,
  What time the crash and roar of London's life
    Drone deep-mouthed up in sullen music blent,
      And, hearkening, he weaves with lonely glee
      A wondrous web of bus-routes yet to be. Mr. Beresford's work has had from
the first remarkable qualities that place him beyond question amongst
the first half-dozen of the younger English novelists; but never before,
I think, have his talents had a subject so exactly suited to their best
display. It would be difficult to praise too highly the grim and
relentless effect of the author's treatment of his subject. Robin
Gregg is a drunkard, and everyone about him--his secretary, his
sister-in-law, his little girl--is caught into the dingy cloud of his
vice. The house also is caught; and very fine indeed is the way in which
Mr. Beresford has presented his atmosphere--the rooms, the dirty strip
of garden, the shabby suburb, the London rain--but beyond all these
things is the central figure of Gregg himself. Here is a character
entirely new to English fiction--a man who in spite of his degradation
has his brilliance, his humour and, above all, his mystery. It is in
this implication that, at the very heart of the man, there are fine
things too degraded and degraded things too fine for any human record of
them to be possible that the exceptional merit of Mr. Beresford's work
lies. In his desire to avoid any possible cheapness or weak indulgence
he misses, perhaps, some effects of colour and pathos that might, a
little, have heightened the contrasts of his study; and I do not feel
that the woman is as vivid as she should be. These things, however,
affect very slightly a story that its author may indeed be proud to have
written.

Penelope was the heroine. She was in what are called reduced circumstances, and was moreover
encumbered by sisters who were not quite all that could have been wished in the way of niceness.
One day Penelope, looking through an iron gate, saw a beautiful garden, full of flowers; and
the master of the garden, himself unseen, saw Penelope, and loved her. So she accepted the
invitation of his voice and went into the garden and found that the master was a young man
so disfigured by a recent accident that he had to wear blue spectacles and a shade. However,
he loved her and she didn't mind him, so that after a time they became engaged, which was pleasant
enough for Penelope, who had henceforth the run of the garden and leave to take home roses
and things to the not-nice sisters. Do you want to be told how presently these began to tempt
Penelope, urging her to insist that her lover should unmask, and what happened when she yielded?
Or have you seen already that the story here called A Garden of the Gods (Alston Rivers) is
just a modern version of one that we all used to be told in the nursery? Moreover, Beauty and
the Beast had been used once at least in this fashion before Miss Edith M. Keate happened on
the idea. But that does not make the present any the less an amiable, quietly entertaining
story, if a little obvious. The characters have never anything but a very distant resemblance
to life; and their speech is for the most part that of a lady novelist's creations rather than
of human beings. But those who demand "a good tale," with beauty properly distressed till the
last page, and there beatified with the knowledge that "the darkness that surrounded her was
scattered for ever," will find some highly agreeable pasturage in A Garden of the Gods.

