2. Having elicited from a lady that she is not engaged for the ensuing dance, exclaim, with
a smile of triumph, "I am! and must go and find my partner."

3. When conversing with one young lady, whom you do not design to compliment by leading out
for waltz, quadrille, or galoppe, mazurka, or Russian cotillon, &c., take particular care,
in her hearing, to engage yourself to another. This is equally kind and polite.

4. Upon the conclusion of a dance, either leave your partner standing in the middle of the
room--which I have beheld performed with admirable effect---or, hastily leading her to a seat,
quit her instantly: which proceeding says, in plain English, "Lady, I would not stay another
moment with you for anything that could be offered me, lest the world should choose to fancy
we are engaged."

Respecting giving and lending, which are sometimes necessary worldly duties, your guide must
be this brief, but infallible rule--"Venture a small fish to catch a large one." Those antiquated
beings, indeed, whom the polite style "horrid bores," but whose generic appellation is Christians,
are accustomed to "lend and give, not hoping to receive;" yet this maxim cannot of course be
supposed to influence the conduct of those who desire to advance themselves in the world, because
they are bound to bear in mind, that they cannot admit of any principle of action which tends,
in the slightest degree, to militate against their interest.--Et caetera desunt.

M.L.B.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE NATURALIST.

THE WHITE-HEADED, OR BALD EAGLE.

(Concluded from page 389.)

The intrepidity of character, before mentioned, may be farther illustrated by the following
fact, which occurred a few years ago, near Great Egg Harbour, New Jersey. A woman, who happened
to be weeding in the garden, had set her child down near, to amuse itself while she was at
work; when a sudden and extraordinary rushing sound, and a scream from her child, alarmed her,
and starting up, she beheld the infant thrown down, and dragged some few feet, and a large
bald eagle bearing off a fragment of its frock, which being the only part seized, and giving
way, providentially saved the life of the infant.

The appetite of the bald eagle, though habituated to long fasting, is of the most voracious
and often the most indelicate kind. Fish, when he can obtain them, are preferred to all other
fare. Young lambs and pigs are dainty morsels, and made free with on all favourable occasions.
Ducks, geese, gulls, and other sea fowl, are also seized with avidity. The most putrid carrion,
when nothing better can be had, is acceptable; and the collected groups of gormandizing vultures,
on the approach of this dignified personage, instantly disperse, and make way for their master,
waiting his departure in sullen silence, and at a respectful distance, on the adjacent trees.

In one of those partial migrations of tree squirrels that sometimes take place in our western
forests, many thousands of them were destroyed in attempting to cross the Ohio; and at a certain
place, not far from Wheeling, a prodigious number of their dead bodies were floated to the
shore by an eddy. Here the vultures assembled in great force, and had regailed themselves for
some time, when a bald eagle made his appearance, and took sole possession of the premises,
keeping the whole vultures at their proper distance for several days. He has also been seen
navigating the same river on a floating carrion, though scarcely raised above the surface of
the water, and tugging at the carcass, regardless of snags, sawyers, planters, or shallows.
He sometimes carries his tyranny to great extremes against the vultures. In hard times, when
food happens to be scarce, should he accidentally meet with one of these who has its craw crammed
with carrion, he attacks it fiercely in the air; the cowardly vulture instantly disgorges,
and the delicious contents are snatched up by the eagle before they reach the ground.

The nest of this species is generally fixed on a very large and lofty tree, often in a swamp
or morass, and difficult to be ascended. On some noted tree of this description, often a pine
or cypress, the bald eagle builds, year after year, for a long series of years. When both male
and female have been shot from the nest, another pair has soon after taken possession. The
nest is large, being added to and repaired every season, until it becomes a black prominent
mass, observable at a considerable distance. It is formed of large sticks, sods, earthy rubbish,
hay, moss, &c. Many have stated to me that the female lays first a single egg, and that, after
having sat on it for some time, she lays another; when the first is hatched, the warmth of
that, it is pretended, hatches the other. Whether this be correct or not, I cannot determine;
but a very respectable gentleman of Virginia assured me, that he saw a large tree cut down,
containing the nest of a bald eagle, in which were two young, one of which appeared nearly
three times as large as the other. As a proof of their attachment to their young, a person
near Norfolk informed me, that, in clearing a piece of wood on his place, they met with a large
dead pine tree, on which was a bald eagle's nest and young. The tree being on fire more than
half way up, and the flames rapidly ascending, the parent eagle darted around and among the
flames, until her plumage was so much injured that it was with difficulty she could make her
escape, and even then, she several times attempted to return to relieve her offspring.

The flight of the bald eagle, when taken into consideration with the ardour and energy of his
character, is noble and interesting. Sometimes the human eye can just discern him, like a minute
speck, moving in slow curvatures along the face of the heavens, as if reconnoitering the earth
at that immense distance. Sometimes he glides along in a direct horizontal line, at a vast
height, with expanded and unmoving wings, till he gradually disappears in the distant blue
ether. Seen gliding in easy circles over the high shores and mountainous cliffs that tower
above the Hudson and Susquehanna, he attracts the eye of the intelligent voyager, and adds
great interest to the scenery. At the great Cataract of Niagara, already mentioned, there rises
from the gulf into which the Falls of the Horse-Shoe descend, a stupendous column of smoke,
or spray, reaching to the heavens, and moving off in large black clouds, according to the direction
of the wind, forming a very striking and majestic appearance. The eagles are here seen sailing
about, sometimes losing themselves in this thick column, and again reappearing in another place,
with such ease and elegance of motion, as renders the whole truly sublime.

  High o'er the watery uproar, silent seen,
  Sailing sedate in majesty serene,
  Now midst the pillar'd spray sublimely lost,
  And now, emerging, down the Rapids tost,
  Glides the bald eagle, gazing, calm and slow,
  O'er all the horrors of the scene below;
  Intent alone to sate himself with blood,
  From the torn victims of the raging flood.

The white-headed eagle is three feet long, and seven feet in extent; the bill is of a rich
yellow; cere the same, slightly tinged with green; mouth flesh-coloured; tip of the tongue,
bluish black; the head, chief part of the neck, vent, tail coverts, and tail, are white in
the perfect, or old birds of both sexes, in those under three years of age these parts are
of a gray brown; the rest of the plumage is deep, dark brown, each feather tipt with pale brown,
lightest on the shoulder of the wing, and darkest towards its extremities. The conformation
of the wing is admirably adapted for the support of so large a bird; it measures two feet in
breadth on the greater quills, and sixteen inches on the lesser; the longest primaries are
twenty inches in length, and upwards of one inch in circumference where they enter the skin;
the broadest secondaries are three inches in breadth across the vane; the scapulars are very
large and broad, spreading from the back to the wing, to prevent the air from passing through;
another range of broad flat feathers, from three to ten inches in length, also extend from
the lower part of the breast to the wing below, for the same purpose; between these lies a
deep triangular cavity; the thighs are remarkably thick, strong, and muscular, covered with
long feathers pointing backwards, usually called the femoral feathers; the legs, which are
covered half way below the knee, before, with dark brown downy feathers, are of a rich yellow,
the colour of ripe Indian corn; feet the same; claws blue black, very large and strong, particularly
the inner one, which is considerably the largest; soles, very rough and warty; the eye is sunk,
under a bony, or cartilaginous projection, of a pale yellow colour, and is turned considerably
forwards, not standing parallel with the cheeks, the iris is of a bright straw colour, pupil black.

The male is generally two or three inches shorter than the female; the white on the head, neck,
and tail being more tinged with yellowish, and its whole appearance less formidable; the brown
plumage is also lighter, and the bird itself less daring than the female, a circumstance common
to almost all birds of prey.

The eagle is said to live to a great age--sixty, eighty, and, as some assert, one hundred years.
This circumstance is remarkable, when we consider the seeming intemperate habits of the bird.
Sometimes fasting, through necessity, for several days, and at other times gorging itself with
animal food till its craw swells out the plumage of that part, forming a large protuberance
on the breast. This, however, is its natural food, and for these habits its whole organization
is particularly adapted. It has not, like men, invented rich wines, ardent spirits, and a thousand
artificial poisons, in the form of soups, sauces, and sweetmeats. Its food is simple, it indulges
freely, uses great exercise, breathes the purest air, is healthy, vigorous, and long lived.
The lords of the creation themselves might derive some useful hints from these facts, were
they not already, in general, too wise, or too proud, to learn from their inferiors, the fowls
of the air and beasts of the field.

       *        *        *        *        *

NOTES OF A READER.

THE LATE MRS. SIDDONS.

The subsequent account of Mrs. Siddons, nearly fifty years since, will perhaps give the reader
a better outline of that "Queen of Tragedy" than any that has since appeared. We ought to mention
that it is quoted from Mr. Boaden's Memoirs, and was written on the appearance of Mrs. Siddons
in the character of Isabella, for the first time in London, October 10, 1782. Mr. Boaden thus
introduces the quotation, in vol. i. of his work:--

As the person of our great actress has undergone some change, and her features by time became
stronger, I should find it difficult now to describe her accurately by memory, as she stood
before the audience on the night of the 10th of October. I am relieved from this difficulty
by an account of her written at the time. I shall change only a few of the expressions then
used, more from a feeling as to composition than alteration as to sentiment.

There never, perhaps, was a better stage-figure than that of Mrs. Siddons. Her height is above
the middle size, but not at all inclined to the em-bon-point. There is, notwithstanding, nothing
sharp or angular in the frame; there is sufficient muscle to bestow a roundness upon the limbs,
and her attitudes are, therefore, distinguished equally by energy and grace. The symmetry of
her person is exact and captivating. Her face is peculiarly happy, the features being finely
formed, though strong, and never for an instant seeming overcharged, like the Italian faces,
nor coarse and unfeminine under whatever impulse; on the contrary, it is so thoroughly harmonized
when quiescent, and so expressive when impassioned, that most people think her more beautiful
than she is; so great, too, is the flexibility of her countenance, that the rapid transitions
of passion are given with a variety and effect that never tire upon the eye. Her voice is naturally
plaintive, and a tender melancholy in her level speaking denotes a being devoted to tragedy;
yet this seemingly settled quality of voice becomes at will sonorous or piercing, overwhelms
with rage, or in its wild shriek absolutely harrows up the soul. Her sorrow, too, is never
childish--her lamentation has a dignity which belongs, I think, to no other woman: it claims
your respect along with your tears. Her eye is brilliant and varying like the diamond; it is
singularly well placed; "it pries," in Shakspeare's language, "through the portal of the head,"
and has every aid from brows flexible beyond all female parallel, contracting to disdain, or
dilating with the emotions of sympathy, or pity, or anguish. Her memory is tenacious and exact--her
articulation clear and distinct--her pronunciation systematic and refined.

Nor has Nature been partially bountiful: she has endowed her with a quickness of conception,
and a strength of understanding equal to the proper use of such extraordinary gifts. So entirely
is she mistress of herself, so collected, and so determined in gestures, tone, and manner,
that she seldom errs, like other actors, because she doubts her powers or comprehension. She
studies her author attentively, conceives justly, and describes with a firm consciousness of
propriety. She is sparing in her action, because English nature does not act much; but it is
always proper, picturesque, graceful, and dignified: it arises immediately from the sentiments
and feeling, and is not seen to prepare itself before it begins. No studied trick or start
can be predicted;--no forced tremulation of the figure, where the vacancy of the eye declares
the absence of passion, can be seen;--no laborious strainings at false climax, in which the
tired voice reiterates one high tone beyond which it cannot reach, is ever heard;--no artificial
heaving of the breasts, so disgusting when the affectation is perceptible;--none of those arts
by which the actress is seen, and not the character, can be found in Mrs. Siddons. So natural
are her gradations and transitions, so classical and correct her speech and deportment, and
so intensely interesting her voice, form, and features, that there is no conveying an idea
of the pleasure she communicates by words. She must be seen to be known. What is still more
delightful, she is an original: she copies no one living or dead, but acts from nature and herself.

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC JOURNALS.

THE TWO MUNCHAUSENS.

By a veteran.

In the late ---- Regiment of Light Dragoons, were two worthy persons, who were denominated
the regimental liars: a distinction to which, giving every man his due, they were eminently
entitled. The great and fundamental requisites for accomplished lying, I conceive to be a good
memory, a fertile fancy, a ready wit, fluency of speech, and a brazen countenance, so that
you shall tell a man a most bare-faced falsehood, and afterwards adduce such connected proofs
as especially characterize actual facts. The following dialogue is a specimen of the talents
of the aforementioned mendacious personages.

C.--"See a man walk after he was shot dead! so have I, a whole day's march."

B.--"Come, come, that's stealing a march on our senses. No, no, it won't do: that's a naked
one; do pray turn them out with some kind of probability covering over them."

C.--"What, doubt my veracity;"

B.--"Not for the world; that would be illiberal and unkind, and by the way, now I think on
it, I believe the possibility of a man travelling without his cranium, for at the battle of
Laswaree, during that desperate contest for British India, I saw a sergeant of the seventy-sixth
shot dead; yet the fellow pursued his antagonist some hundred yards afterwards, threatening
vengeance on the miscreant for having robbed the service of one of its best men. Finding himself
weak from loss of blood, he deliberately unscrewed his head, threw it violently at the foe,
and took him on the spine; down he tumbled; the veteran jumped upon him; fearful was the struggle;
chest to chest, fist to fist; at last they joined in the death grapple, and dreadful indeed
was their dying hug."

C.--"My dear friend, I was an eye witness of the whole transaction. You have however forgotten
the best part of the story. After the sergeant had well pummelled his enemy, he picked up his
head again, and thrust into a neighbouring great gun: from the want of his peepers he made
a random shot, and killed the horse on which Lord Lake was riding--his Lordship saluted the sod."

B.--"I recollect it perfectly; for the nose of the said sergeant (recognised by sundry carbuncles)
was so hard, that the following day it was extracted from the abdomen of the unfortunate animal."

C.--"You make a mistake about the nose; it was discovered lodged in a loaf in a corporal's
knapsack; the man could swear to it, for it was perforated by three balls, and otherwise curiously
marked. Report said that a shell had once blown it completely off, and that it was stitched
on again by a shoe-maker, who, ever after, went by the name of the nosy cobbler."

B.--"Nothing impossible. It reminds me of a story somewhat as strange: During the battle of
Delhi there was a quarter-master in the regiment, a queer fellow, who was never at a loss;
(he is now in the corps, and can vouch for my statement) he was charging at the head of his
squadron, when he caught a cannon shot in his hands: instantly dismounting, he chucked the
ball into a field-piece, but, for want of a ramrod, he drove it home with his head. One of
the enemy, seeing him thus zealously occupied, fired off the gun; strange to tell he was not
killed! From constant exposure to the sun, in search of toddy, and from the free use of cocoa-nut
oil, his head had become proof against shot. The distance from the place whence he was projected,
to that where he was picked up, measured three miles, two furlongs, three yards, and eleven
inches. A hard-headed fellow, Sir.--In his career he upset his colonel and a brace of captains."

C.--"He did; and where the colonel was capsized, he made such a hole by his enormous weight,
that the sovereign of Delhi ordered a large well to be dug on the spot, in memory of the event."

B.--"I remember the well--twelve feet, three inches and a half, was the exact depth of the
excavation occasioned by the fall."

C.--"There you are wrong; only eleven feet, three inches--"

B.--"No, believe me, I am right; twelve feet, and three inches to a barleycorn."

C.--"Never mind: a little, this way or that, is of no consequence. The most extraordinary thing
was, that the gallant colonel only sprained his right arm."

B.--"By no means extraordinary. You remember the great gun of Agra, in which a regiment of
cavalry used to drill."

C--"I do. The one that fired the stone ball to the wall of Futtipoore Sikrah--twenty miles."

B.--"The same. Well, when that gun was fired, a thing that never occurred but once, the head
of the rash man who fired it was afterwards found in the Old Woman's Tank, eleven miles from
the spot, without so much as a blemish, except a slight singing of the right whisker."

C.--"Ah! I can never forget the time; I had just landed in Calcutta when we heard the report.
Some of the wadding went as far as Cawnpore."

Here the trumpet, sounding for morning drill, put a stop to the colloquy.--Englishman's Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MISER'S GRAVE.

BY THE ETTRICK SHEPHERD.

  Here's a lesson for the earth-born worm,
  So deep engraven on the meagre platen
  Of human frailty, so debased in hue,
  That he who dares peruse it needs but blush
  For his own nature. The poor shrivell'd wretch,
  For whose lean carcass yawns this hideous pit,
  Had naught that he desired in earth or heaven--
  No God, no Saviour, but that sordid pelf,
  O'er which he starved and gloated. I have seen him
  On the exchange, or in the market-place
  When money was in plenteous circulation,
  Gaze after it with such Satanic looks
  Of eagerness, that I have wonder'd oft
  How he from theft and murder could refrain.
  'Twas cowardice alone withheld his hands,
  For they would grasp and grapple at the air,
  When his grey eye had fixed on heaps of gold,
  While his clench'd teeth, and grinning, yearning face,
  Were dreadful to behold. The merchants oft
  Would mark his eye, then start and look again,
  As at the eye of basilisk or snake.
  His eye of greyish green ne'er shed one ray
  Of kind benignity or holy light
  On aught beneath the sun. Childhood, youth, beauty,
  To it had all one hue. Its rays reverted
  Right inward, back upon the greedy heart
  On which the gnawing worm of avarice
  Preyed without ceasing, straining every sense
  To that excruciable and yearning core.
    Some thirteen days agone, he comes to me,
  And after many sore and mean remarks
  On men's rapacity and sordid greed,
  He says, "Gabriel, thou art an honest man,
  As the world goes. How much, then, will you charge
  And make a grave for me, fifteen feet deep?"--
    "We'll talk of that when you require it, sir."
    "No, no. I want it made, and paid for too;
  I'll have it settled, else I know there will
  Be some unconscionable overcharge
  On my poor friends--a ruinous overcharge."--
    "But, sir, were it made now, it would fill up
  Each winter to the brim, and be to make
  Twenty or thirty times, if you live long." "There!
  there it is! Nothing but imposition!
  Even Time must rear his stern, unyielding front,
  And holding out his shrivelled skeleton hand,
  Demands my money. Naught but money! money!
  Were I coin'd into money I could not
  Half satisfy that craving greed of money.
  Well, how much do you charge? I'll pay you now,
  And take a bond from you that it be made
  When it is needed. Come, calculate with reason--
  Work's very cheap; and two good men will make
  That grave at two days' work: and I can have
  Men at a shilling each--without the meat--
  That's a great matter! Let them but to meat,
  'Tis utter ruin. I'll give none their meat--
  That I'll beware of. Men now-a-days are cheap,
  Cheap, dogcheap, and beggarly fond of work.
  One shilling each a-day, without the meat.
  Mind that, and ask in reason; for I wish
  To have that matter settled to my mind."--
    "Sir, there's no man alive will do't so cheap
  As I shall do it for the ready cash,"
  Says I, to put him from it with a joke.
  "I'll charge you, then, one-fourth part of a farthing
  For every cubic foot of work I do,
  Doubling the charge each foot that I descend."
    "Doubling as you descend! Why, that of course.
  A quarter of a farthing each square foot--
  No meat, remember! Not an inch of meat,
  Nor drink, nor dram. You're not to trust to these.
  Wilt stand that bargain, Gabriel?"--"I accept."
    He struck it, quite o'erjoy'd. We sought the clerk,
  Sign'd--seal'd. He drew his purse. The clerk went on
  Figuring and figuring. "What a fuss you make!
  'Tis plain," said he, "the sum is eighteen-pence"--
    "'Tis somewhat more, sir," said the civil clerk--
  And held out the account. "Two hundred round,
  And gallant payment over." The Miser's face
  Assumed the cast of death's worst lineaments.
  His skinny jaws fell down upon his breast;
  He tried to speak, but his dried tongue refused
  Its utterance, and cluck'd upon the gum.
  His heart-pipes whistled with a crannell'd sound;
  His knell-knees plaited, and his every bone
  Seem'd out of joint. He raved--he cursed--he wept--
  But payment he refused. I have my bond,
  Not yet a fortnight old, and shall be paid.
  It broke the Miser's heart. He ate no more,
  Nor drank, nor spake, but groan'd until he died;
  This grave kill'd him, and now yearns for his bones.
  But worse than all. 'Tis twenty years and more
  Since he brought home his coffin. On that chest
  His eye turn'd ever and anon. It minded him,
  He said, of death. And as be sat by night
  Beside his beamless hearth, with blanket round
  His shivering frame, if burst of winter wind
  Made the door jangle, or the chimney moan,
  Or crannied window whistle, he would start,
  And turn his meagre looks upon that chest;
  Then sit upon't, and watch till break of day.
     Old wives thought him religious--a good man!
  A great repentant sinner, who would leave
  His countless riches to sustain the poor.
  But mark the issue. Yesterday, at noon,
  Two men could scarcely move that ponderous chest
  To the bedside to lay the body in.
  They broke it sundry, and they found it framed
  With double bottom! All his worshipp'd gold
  Hoarded between the boards! O such a worm
  Sure never writhed beneath the dunghill's base!
  Fifteen feet under ground! and all his store
  Snug in beneath him. Such a heaven was his.
    Now, honest Teddy, think of such a wretch,
  And learn to shun his vices, one and all.
  Though richer than a Jew, he was more poor
  Than is the meanest beggar. At the cost
  Of other men a glutton. At his own,
  A starveling. A mere scrub. And such a coward,
  A cozener and liar--but a coward,
  And would have been a thief--But was a coward.

Blackwood's Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SELECTOR; AND LITERARY NOTICES OF NEW WORKS.

PARIS AND ITS HISTORICAL SCENES.

(Library of Entertaining Knowledge, Part 18.)

We have little inclination to quote more than a few passages from the General View of Paris
in this Number; the topographical portion of which, (as far as a four months residence there
will serve our judgment) is eminently characteristic.

Ancient City.

The Archbishop of Narbonne, writing in the reign of Francis I., (about 1520,) calls Paris even
then a world rather than a city[3]; yet at that period its population was probably not much
more than the fifth part of what it now is; nor did the quantity of ground it covered bear
even the same proportion to the immense space over which it has now extended. But in both convenience
and elegance, Paris has made still more extraordinary advances since the time of Francis than
even in population and extent. It was then, compared to what it now is, but a gloomy and incommodious
fortress, without even the security which encompassing fortifications might be supposed to
yield. Lighted only by candles placed here and there by the inhabitants themselves in their
windows, it was so infested by thieves and assassins that hardly any person ventured out after
dark, and the approach of night was the source of constant terror even to those who remained
in their houses. The streets thus imperfectly lighted, were worse paved; and most of them were
as dirty and narrow as those still to be seen in the more ancient part of the city. The supply
of water was so inadequate that the severest miseries were sometimes suffered from the absolute
want of that necessary of life, and the greatest inconveniences at all times from its scarcity.
Finally, the public edifices were without splendour, and even the best of the private houses
unprovided with many of what are now accounted the most indispensable accommodations. Instead
of all this, we behold Paris now one of the very central seats of civilization; and although
still deficient in many of the accommodations which supply to the necessities of the many instead
of the luxuries of the few, in possession of the greater portion of the most important provisions
which ingenuity has found out, whether for the comfort or the embellishment of existence. What
a contrast between the French capital of 1831, and that Lutetia of the ancient Parisii, which
Caesar found nearly nineteen hundred years ago occupying the little island, around which has
since extended itself so wide a circle of wealth, industry, intelligence, and the works which
these create!

    [3] Felibien, Histoire de Paris, tome i.

Bridges.

Paris, stands, like London, on both banks of a river, and is thus cut into two great divisions,
one to the north, and the other to the south, of the water. The Seine, however, is not nearly
so broad as the Thames; and the northern and southern halves of Paris are not, therefore, by
any means so much separated from each other, either locally, politically, or socially, as are
the corresponding portions of the English metropolis. They form, in all respects one city.

The Seine flows in a direction nearly opposite to that of the Thames, namely, from south-east
to north-west. It preserves almost a perfectly straight course in passing through Paris, except
that it bends considerably to the south immediately before leaving the town. The river, as
it flows through the heart of the city, is interrupted by three small islands lying in succession,
the two most westerly of which, the Ile de la Cité (otherwise called the Ile du Palais) and
the Ile St. Louis, or de Notre Dame, are covered with streets and houses. The third, called
the Ile Louvier, is used only as a depôt for fire-wood. The parts of the town on the opposite
sides of the river are connected with each other, and with these islands, by nineteen bridges,
thirteen of which are constructed of stone, and two of stone and iron: of the others two are
chain-bridges, one is built of wood, and two of wood and iron. Several of these structures,
especially the Pont des Arts, the Pont Louis XVI., and the Pont de Jena, or de l'Ecole Militaire,
all of which are to the west of the Ile du Palais, are distinguished by their majesty or elegance,
and add much beauty and picturesque effect to the vista of the river. Excepting at one place
where the two branches enclosing the Ile du Palais unite, immediately to the west of that island,
the breadth of the Seine at Paris is no where greater than about 550 English feet, and at some
points it is not more than half that distance from the one bank to the other. The bridges,
therefore, by which the Seine is traversed, are not to be compared in point of magnitude with
those of the Thames at London. Even the Pont Neuf, which connects the Ile du Palais with both
the northern and the southern divisions of the city, and comprehends in fact two bridges, with
an intermediate street, is shorter taken altogether, than Waterloo bridge by more than 200
feet; and the Pont Louis XVI., which next to the Pont Neuf is the longest of the Parisian stone
bridges, measures only about 485 feet between the abutments, while Westminster Bridge measures
1223, and Waterloo Bridge 1242 feet. It is in the number of its bridges alone, therefore, that
the Seine is superior to the Thames.

The Boulevards.

The most remarkable feature in the general appearance of Paris, is the inner inclosure formed
by the celebrated road called the Boulevards. On the north side of the river, the Boulevards
follow a line nearly midway, on an average, between the river and the wall. The space which
they comprehend, therefore, is but a small portion of that included within the outer boundary
of the city. The length of this part of the road is about 5,200 English yards, or somewhat
under three miles. That on the south side of the river is of far greater extent, approaching,
as it does, throughout its whole sweep, very much closer to the wall, and in some parts entirely
coinciding with it. It measures about 16,000 yards, or above nine miles in length. Each of
these lines, although in reality forming an uninterrupted road from its commencement to its
termination, is divided into a succession of parts, each having its particular name. The northern
Boulevards are twelve in number, the southern seven. We have nothing in England like the Parisian
Boulevards. They may be generally described as a road or street, of great breadth, along each
side of which are planted double rows of elms. But these shady avenues do not present merely
a picture of rural beauty. Rising as they do in the heart of a great city, they partake also
of its artificial elegance and splendour, and are associated with all the luxuries of architectural
decoration. Considered merely as a range of streets, the Boulevards are hardly rivalled by
any other part of Paris. Those to the north of the river are lined on both sides throughout
their whole extent, by buildings more uniformly handsome than are those of almost any other
street in the city, and by many which may be even described as magnificent. Some of these are
private residences; others are shops, cafés, public hotels, and theatres. The crowds by whom
so many parts of these Boulevards are frequented chiefly give to the scene its singular liveliness
and brilliancy. The southern Boulevards, though equally beautiful, are far from being so much
the habitual resort of the citizens; but the walks on this very account, have a charm for some
moods of mind which the others want. Another road, planted in a similar manner, has more recently
been carried round the outside of the present walls of the city. It is distinguished from the
inner Boulevards by the name of the Boulevards Extérieurs.

Streets.

