Hoby, Family of (Vol. viii., p. 243.).--In answer to MR. J. B. WHITBORNE, I beg to state that
the Rev. Sir Philip Hoby, Baronet, was in the early part of the last century chancellor of
the archdiocese of Dublin. He was an intimate friend of Archbishop Cobbe, and there is a picture
of him in canonicals at Newbridge, co. Dublin.

T. C.

Cambridge Graduates (Vol. viii., p. 365.).--Your correspondent will find a list of B.A.'s of
Cambridge University from the years 1500 to 1717 in Add. MS. 5885., British Museum.

GLAIUS.

{526}

"I own I like not," &c. (Vol. viii., p. 366.).--The lines--

 "I own like not Johnson's turgid style," &c.

are by Peter Pindar, whose works I have not, and so cannot give an exact reference. The extract
containing them will be found in Chambers' Cyclopædia of English Literature, vol. ii. p. 298.

P. J. F. GANTILLON, B.A.

"Topsy Turvy" (Vol. viii., p. 385.).--This is ludicrously derived, in Roland Cashel, p. 104.,
from top side t'other way.

P. J. F. GANTILLON, B.A.

"When the Maggot bites" (Vol. viii., pp. 244. 304. 353.).--Another illustration of this phrase
may be found in Swift (Introduction to Tale of a Tub):

    "The two principal qualifications (says he) of a fanatic preacher are,
    his inward light, and his head full of maggots; and the two different
    fates of his writings are to be burnt or worm-eaten."

The word maggot is sometimes used for the whim or crotchet itself; thus Butler:

 "To reconcile our late dissenters,
  Our brethren though by different venters;
  Unite them and their different maggots,
  As long and short sticks are in faggots."--Hudibras, part III. canto 2.

So also it is used by Samuel Wesley (father of the founder of the Methodists) in his rare and
facetious volume entitled Maggots, or Poems on several Subjects never before handled, 12mo., 1685.

WILLIAM BATES.

Birmingham.

"Salus populi," &c. (Vol. viii., p. 410.).--The saying "Salus populi supreme lex" is borrowed
from the model law of Cicero, in his treatise de Legibus, III. 3. It is made one of the duties
of the consuls, the supreme magistrates, to regard the safety of the state as their highest
rule of conduct:

    "Regio imperio duo sunto; iique præeundo, judicando, consulendo
    Prætores, Judices, Consules appellantor. Militiæ summum jus habento,
    nemini parento: ollis salus populi suprema lex esto."

The allusion appears to be to the formula used by the senate for conferring supreme power on
the consuls in cases of emergency: "Dare operam, ne quid respublica detrimenti caperet." (See
Sallust, Bell. Cat. c. 29.)

L.

Aristotle regards the safety of the citizens as the great end of law (see his Ethics, b. I.
ch. 4.); and Cicero (de Finibus, lib. ii. c. 5.) lays down a similar principle.

B. H. C.

Theodoro Paleologus (Vol. viii., p. 408.).--The inscription referred to was printed in Archæologia,
vol. xviii., and with some account of the Paleologi to which a Querist was referred in "N.
& Q.," Vol. v., p. 280. (see also pp. 173. 357.). It is astonishing how much will be found
in that "Californian mine," if the most excellent indices of the several volumes are only consulted.
Your correspondent could in the present case have pointed out the errors of the inscription
already in print had the indices to "N. & Q." attracted him.

J.

Worm in Books (Vol. viii., p. 412).--In reply to ALETHES I beg to acquaint him that I have
tried various means for destroying the worm in old books and MSS., and the most effectual has
been the chips of Russia leather; indeed, in but one instance have I known them fail.

NEWBURIENSIS.

The Porter Family (Vol. viii., p. 364.).--1. The reason of the word Agincourt being placed
above the inscription in Bristol Cathedral is, that the Porter family were descendants of Sir
William Porter who fought at Agincourt.

2. Charles Lempriere Porter was the son of Dr. Porter.

3. This family was descended from Endymion Porter of classic and loyal memory.[3]

J. R. W.

Bristol.

[Footnote 3: [The biographical notices of Endymion Porter are extremely scanty. Can our correspondent
furnish any particulars respecting him?--ED.]]

Buckle (Vol. viii., p. 304.).--This word is in common use by the artizans who work upon sheet-iron,
to denote the curl which a sheet of iron acquires in passing through a pair of rollers. The
word has been derived from the French boucle, a curl. The shoe-buckle has got its name from
its curved form. In the days in which every man in this country, who was in easy circumstances,
wore a wig, it was well known that to put a wig in buckle, meant to arrange its curls in due form.

N. W. S.

The "Forlorn Hope" (Vol. viii., p. 411.).--This is no quotation; but the expression arose in
the army from its leader or captain, who, being often a disappointed man, or one indifferent
to consequences, now ran the "forlorn hope" either of ending his days or obtaining a tomb in
Westminster Abbey. From the captain, after a time, the term descended to all the little gallant
band. In no part of our community will you find such {527} meaning expressions (often very
slang ones) used as in the army. A lady, without hearing anything to shock "ears polite," might
listen to the talk of a mess table, and be unable to understand clearly in what the conversation
consisted. "He is gone to the bad"--meaning, he is ruined. "A wigging from the office" (a very
favourite expression)--a reprimand from the colonel. "Wigging" naturally arising from tearing
the hair in anger or sorrow, and the office of course substituting the place from whence it
comes for the person who sent it. Besides may others, quæ nunc, &c.

A DRAGOON.

Nightingale and Thorn (Vol. iv., p. 175., &c.).--

 "If I had but a pottle of sack, like a sharp prickle,
  To knock my nose against when I am nodding,
  I should sing like a nightingale."--Fletcher, The Lover's Progress, Act
      III. Sc. 2.

W. J. BERNHARD SMITH.

Temple.

Burial in Unconsecrated Ground (Vol. vi., p. 448.; Vol. viii., p. 43.).--The following curious
entry occurs in the parish register of Pimperne, Dorset:

 "Anno 1627. Vicesimo quinto Octobris.

    "Peregrinus quidam tempore pestes in communi campo mortuus eodem loco
    quo inventus sepultus."

There was a pestilence in England in 1625. In 1628 sixteen thousand persons died of the plague
at Lyons.

W. E.

I do not know whether the case recorded in London Labour and the London Poor, vol. i. p. 411.--by
the way, is that work ever to be completed, and how far has it gone?--of a man buried at the
top of a house at Foot's Cray, in Kent, has been noticed by any correspondent.

P. J. F. GANTILLON, B.A.

Sangaree (Vol. iii., p. 141.).--I take it that the word ought to be spelled sansgris, being
derived from the French words sans, without, and gris, tipsy, meaning a beverage that would
not make tipsy. I have been a good deal in the French island of Martinique, and they use the
term frequently in this sense as applied to a beverage made of white wine ("Vin de Grave"),
syrup, water, and nutmeg with a small piece of fresh lime-skin hanging over the edge of the
glass. A native of Martinique gave me this as the derivation of the word. The beverage ought
not to be stirred after the nutmeg is put in it, as the fastidious say it would spoil the flavour.

T. B.

Point of Etiquette (Vol. viii., p. 386.).--The title Miss, without the Christian name, belongs
to the eldest unmarried daughter of the representative of the family only. If he have lost
his own children, his brother is heir presumptive merely to the family honours; and can neither
assume nor give to his daughter the titles to which they are only expectants. The matter becomes
evident, if you test the rule by a peerage instead of a squirage. Even the eldest daughter
of a baronet or landed gentleman loses her title of Miss, when her brother succeeds to the
representation, provided he have a daughter to claim the title.

P. P.

Etymology of "Monk" and "Till," &c. (Vol. viii., pp. 291. 409.).--Will you allow me one word
on these two cases? Monk is manifestly a Greek formative from [Greek: monos], and denotes a
solitaire.

The proposed derivation of till, from to-while, is not new; but still clearly mistaken, inasmuch
as the word till is found in Scotch, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, and others of the family.
A word thus compounded would be of less general use. Besides which, to-while would scarcely
produce such a form as till; it would rather change the t into an aspirate, which would appear
as th.

B. H. C.

Forrell (Vol. vii., p. 630.).--Your correspondent T. HUGHES derives this word (applied in Devonshire,
as he tells us, to the cover of book) from forrell, "a term still used by the trade to signify
an inferior kind of vellum." Is it not more natural to suppose it to be the same word which
the French have made fourreau, a cover or sheath? (See Du Cange, vv. Forellus, Forrellus.)

J. H. T.

Dublin.

Parochial Libraries (Vol. vii., p. 507.; Vol. viii. passim).--There is a library at Wimborne
Minster, in the Collegiate Church, which, on my visit two years since, appeared to contain
some valuable volumes, and was neglected and in very bad condition.

[theta].

       *       *       *       *       *

Miscellaneous.

NOTES ON BOOKS, ETC.

Dr. Lardner has just published the third and concluding course of his Handbook of Natural Philosophy
and Astronomy. The subjects treated of in the present volume are Meteorology and Astronomy,
and they are illustrated with thirty-seven lithographic plates, and upwards of two hundred
engravings on wood. The work was undertaken with the very popular object of supplying the means
of acquiring a competent knowledge of the methods and results of the physical sciences, without
any unusual acquaintance with mathematics; and in the methods of demonstration and illustration
of this series of treatises, that principle has as far as possible, been adopted so that by
means of the present volumes, persons who have not even a superficial knowledge of geometry
and algebra may yet acquire with great facility a considerable acquaintance with the sciences
of which they treat. The present volume contains a very elaborate index, which, {528} combined
with the analytical tables of contents, give to the entire series all the usefulness of a compendious
encyclopædia of natural philosophy and astronomy.

Willich's Income Tax Tables, Fourth Edition, 1853-1860, price One Florin, show at one view
the amount of duty at the various rates fixed by the late act, and are accompanied by a variety
of statistical information, tending to show that the wealth of the nation has increased in
as great, if not a greater, ratio, than the population. The price at which the work is issued
serves to lead our attention to a little pamphlet, published at sixpence, or 25 mils, by Mr.
Robert Mears, entitled Decimal Coinage Tables for simplifying and facilitating the Introduction
of the proposed new Coinage.

