ENGLISH READINGS FOR SCHOOLS

     "The virtue of books is the perfecting of reason, which is indeed
     the happiness of man."

     Richard De Bury.

     "On bokès for to rede I me delyte."

     Chaucer.

English Readings for Schools

GENERAL EDITOR

WILBUR LUCIUS CROSS

PROFESSOR OF ENGLISH IN YALE UNIVERSITY

PRESIDENT WILSON'S ADDRESSES

EDITED BY

GEORGE MCLEAN HARPER

PROFESSOR IN PRINCETON UNIVERSITY; AUTHOR OF "MASTERS OF FRENCH LITERATURE," "LIFE OF SAINTE-BEUVE,"
AND "WILLIAM WORDSWORTH, HIS LIFE, WORKS, AND INFLUENCE"

NEW YORK HENRY HOLT AND COMPANY

Copyright 1918, BY HENRY HOLT AND COMPANY

CONTENTS

Introduction

First Inaugural Address First Address to Congress Address on the Banking System Address at
Gettysburg Address on Mexican Affairs Understanding America Address before the Southern Commercial
Congress The State of the Union Trusts and Monopolies Panama Canal Tolls The Tampico Incident
In the Firmament of Memory Memorial Day Address at Arlington Closing a Chapter Annapolis Commencement
Address The Meaning of Liberty American Neutrality Appeal for Additional Revenue The Opinion
of the World The Power of Christian Young Men Annual Address to Congress A Message Address
before the United States Chamber of Commerce To Naturalized Citizens Address at Milwaukee The
Submarine Question American Principles The Demands of Railway Employees Speech of Acceptance
Lincoln's Beginnings The Triumph of Women's Suffrage The Terms of Peace Meeting Germany's Challenge
Request for Authority Second Inaugural Address The Call to War To the Country The German Plot
Reply to the Pope Labor must be Free The Call for War with Austria-Hungary Government Administration
of Railways The Conditions of Peace Force to the Utmost

INTRODUCTION

These addresses of President Woodrow Wilson represent only the most recent phase of his intellectual
activity. They are almost entirely concerned with political affairs, and more specifically
with defining Americanism. It will not be forgotten, however, that the life of Mr. Wilson as
President of the United States is but a short period compared with the whole of his public
career as professor of jurisprudence, history, and politics, as President of Princeton University,
as Governor of New Jersey, as an orator, and as a writer of many books.

Surprise has been expressed that a man, after reaching the age of fifty, should be able to
step from the "quiet" life of a teacher and author into the resounding regions of politics;
but Mr. Wilson's life as a scholar, professor, and author was not at all quiet in the sense
of being easy or untouched with exciting chances and changes, and, in the second place, he
carried into politics the steadying ideals and the methodical habits of his former occupation.

As these addresses themselves prove, he has retained something of the teacher's interest in
showing the relation between specific instances and the general forms of thought or action
of which they are a part. Not fact alone, but principle, is what he seeks to discover to his
audiences. In the addresses made in 1913 it is apparent that his main effort was to fasten
attention upon the principles of international justice and good will and to restrain the impulses
of those Americans who were inclined to hasty action with reference to Mexico. From the beginning
of the Great War to a point not much earlier than our own entrance into the struggle, he counselled
neutrality and inaction, with what motives one must judge from his statements and from events.
Only a few speeches belonging to this period have been included in the present collection.
When it became practically certain that war between the United States and Germany was inevitable,
there came into his utterances a new temper and a more direct kind of eloquence. With scarcely
an exception, this collection includes every one of his addresses made between August, 1916,
and February, 1918.

Some of the addresses are state papers, read to Congress, and were carefully composed. Others,
delivered in various places, appear to have been more or less extemporaneous. All are full
of their author's political philosophy, and many of them contain expressions of his opinions
on general subjects, such as personal character and conduct.

In order more fully to appreciate the weight of experience and the maturity of reflection which
give value to his words, it will be worth while to consider Mr. Wilson's entire career as a
scholar and man of letters, paying particular attention to the growth of his political ideals
and to the qualities of his style.

To be a literary artist, a writer must possess a constructive imagination. He must be a man
of feeling and have the gift of imparting to others some share of his own emotions. On almost
every page of President Wilson's writings, as in almost all his policies, whether educational
or political, is stamped the evidence of shaping, visionary power. Those of us who have known
him many years remember well that in his daily thought and speech he habitually proceeded by
this same poetic method, first growing warm with an idea and then by analogy and figure kindling
a sympathetic heat in his hearers.

The subjects that may excite an artist's imagination are infinitely numerous and belong to
every variety of conceivable life. A Coleridge or a Renan will make literature out of polemical
theology; a Huxley will write on the physical basis of life with emotion and in such a way
as to infect others with his own feelings; a Macaulay or a Froude will give what color he please
to the story of a nation and compel all but the most wary readers to see as through his eyes.
We are too much accustomed to reserve the title of literary artist for the creator of fiction,
whether in prose or in verse. Mr. Wilson is no less truly an artist because the vision that
fires his imagination, the vision he has spent his life in making clear to himself and others
and is now striving to realize in action, is a political conception. He has seen it in terms
of life, as a thing that grows, that speaks, that has faced dangers, that is full of promise,
that has charm, that is fit to stir a man's blood and demand a world's devotion; no wonder
he has warmed to it, no wonder he has clothed it in the richest garments of diction and rhythm
and figure.

There are small artists and great artists. Granted an equal portion of imagination and an equal
command of verbal resources, and still there will be this difference. It is an affair of more
or less intellectual depth and more or less character. If character were the only one of these
two things to be considered in the case of Mr. Wilson's writings, one might with little or
no hesitation predict that the best of them would long remain classics. They are full of character,
of a high and fine character. They have a tone peculiar to themselves, like a man's voice,
which is one of the most unmistakable properties of a man. It would be no reflection on an
author to say that his point of view in fundamental matters had changed in the course of thirty
or forty years; but the truth is that with reference to his great political ideal Mr. Wilson's
point of view has not widely changed. The scope of his survey has been enlarged, he has filled
up the intervening space with a thousand observations, he sees his object with a more penetrating
and commanding eye; but it is the same object that drew to itself his youthful gaze, and has
had its part in making him

     "The generous spirit, who, when brought
      Among the tasks of real life, hath wrought
      Upon the plan that pleased his boyish thought."

The world, in time, will judge of the amount of knowledge and the degree of purely intellectual
force that Mr. Wilson has applied in his field of study. A contemporary cannot well pronounce
such a judgment, especially if the province be not his own.

In the small space at my disposal I shall try, first, to say what I think is the political
conception or idea upon which Mr. Wilson has looked so steadily and with so deep emotion that
he has made of it a poetical subject. And then I shall venture to distinguish those processes
of imagination, that artistic method, which we call style, by which he has elucidated its meaning
for his readers so as to win for it their intelligent and moved regard. The inquiry will take
into account his earliest book, Congressional Government, published in 1885, Division and Reunion,
1893, An Old Master and Other Political Essays, 1893, Mere Literature and Other Essays, 1896,
George Washington, 1897, The State, written 1889, rewritten 1898, A History of the American
People, 1902, Constitutional Government in the United States, 1908, and a volume, issued very
recently in England, containing some of the President's statements on the war and entitled
America and Freedom.

Like a strong current through these works runs the doctrine that in a good government the law-making
power should be also the administering power and should bear full and specific responsibility;
safeguards against ill-considered action being provided in two directions, by the people on
the one hand, and on the other hand by law and custom, these latter being considered historically,
as an organic growth. He finds the elements and essentials of this doctrine in our Constitution,
though somewhat obscured by the old "literary" theory of checks and balances. He finds it more
fully acknowledged in the British Constitution. He finds it originating in our English race,
enunciated at Runnymede, developing by a slow but natural growth in English history, sanctioned
in the Petition of Right, the Revolution of 1688, and the Declaration of Rights, achieved for
us in our own Revolution, and illustrated by the implied powers of Congress and the more directly
exercised powers of the House of Commons. It is a corollary of this doctrine that the President
of the United States, to whom in the veto and in his peculiar relations to the Senate our Constitution
gives a very real legislative function, should associate himself closely with Congress, not
merely as one who may annul but also as one who initiates policies and helps to translate them
into laws. In his Congressional Government, begun when he was a student in Princeton and finished
before he was twenty-eight years old, Mr. Wilson clearly indicates his dissatisfaction with
the tradition which would set the executive apart from the legislative power as a check against
it and not a coöperating element; and it is a remarkable proof of the man's integrity and persistent
personality that one of his first acts as President was to go before the Congress as if he
were its agent.

If any proof of his democracy were required, one might point to his rather surprising statement,
which he has repeated more than once, that the chief value of Congressional debate is to arouse
and inform public opinion. He regards the will of the people as the real source of governmental
policy. Yet he is very impatient of those theories of the rights of man which found favor in
France in the eighteenth century and have been the mainspring of democratic movements on the
Continent of Europe. He regards political liberty, as we know it in this country, as a peculiar
possession of the English race to which, in all that concerns jurisprudence, we Americans belong.

The other safeguard against arbitrary action by the combined legislative-administrative power
is, he declares, national respect for the spirit of those general legal conceptions which,
through many centuries, have been making themselves part and parcel of our racial instinct.
He perceives that the British Constitution, though unwritten, is as effective as ours and commands
obedience fully as much as ours, and that both appeal to a certain ingrained legal sense, common
to all the English-speaking peoples. These peoples do not really have revolutions. What we
call the American Revolution was only the reaffirming of principles which were as precious
in the eyes of most Englishmen as they were in the eyes of Washington, Hamilton, and Madison,
but which had been for a time and owing to peculiar circumstances, neglected or contravened.
Political development in this family of nations does not, he maintains, proceed by revolution,
but by evolution. On all these points his Constitutional Government in the United States is
only a richer and more mature statement and illustration of the ideas expressed in his Congressional
Government. The main thesis of his George Washington is that the great Virginian and first
American was the truest Englishman of his time, a modern Hampden or Eliot, a Burke in action.
Again and again he pays respect to Chief Justice Marshall, who represented, in our early history,
the conception of law as something in its breadth and majesty older and more sacred than the
decrees of any particular legislature, and yet capable of being so interpreted as to accommodate
itself to progress. Mr. Wilson has from the beginning been an admiring student of Burke. And
if Burke has been his study, Bagehot has been his schoolmaster. The choice of book and teacher
is significant. Mere Literature shows how Mr. Wilson revered them in 1896; his public life
proves that he learned their lessons well. In An Old Master and Other Essays, he had already
borne witness to the genius of Adam Smith and John Stuart Mill, who, as compared with Continental
writers, illustrate in the field of economics the Anglo-Saxon spirit of respect for customs
that have grown by organic processes.

Mr. Wilson's Division and Reunion is an admirable treatment of a question upon which a Southerner
might have been expected to write as a Southerner. He has discussed it as an American. His
well-known text-book The State, which has been revised and frequently reprinted, discusses
the chief theories of the origin of government, describes the administrative systems of Greece
and Rome and of the great nations of medieval and modern Europe and of the United States, and
treats in detail of the functions and objects of government, with special reference to law
and its workings. His History of the American People, though it contains many passages of insight
and has the charm that comes from intense appreciation of details, is too diffuse and repetitious.
A great history should be a combination of a chronicle and a treatise; it should be a record
of facts and at the same time a philosophical exposition of an idea. Mr. Wilson's five-volume
work is insufficient as a chronicle and too long for an essay. Yet an essay it really is. Moreover,
unless I myself am blinded by prejudice, it makes too much of the errors committed by our government
in the reconstruction period after the Civil War. On the whole, with all their faults, the
administrations of Grant and Hayes accomplished a task of enormous difficulty, with remarkably
little impatience and intemperance. The disadvantage of having been written originally under
pressure in monthly instalments, for a periodical, is clearly visible in the History. There
is a too constant effort to catch the eye with picturesque description. Nevertheless, in this
book, as in the others, Mr. Wilson evokes in his readers a noble image of that government,
constitutional, traditional, democratic, self-developing, which, from the days of his youth,
aroused in him a poetic enthusiasm.

And now for the way his imagination works and clothes itself in language. The quality of his
mind is poetic, and his style is highly figurative. There have been very few professors, lecturing
on abstruse subjects, such as economics, jurisprudence, and politics, who have dared to give
so free a rein to an instinct frankly artistic. In the early days of his career, Mr. Wilson
was invited to follow two courses which were supposed to be inconsistent with each other. The
so-called "scientific" method, much admired at that time even when applied to subjects in which
philosophic insight or a sense for beauty are the proper guides, was being urged upon the rising
generation of scholars. Perhaps the Johns Hopkins University was the center of this impulse
in America; at least it was thought to be, though the source was almost wholly German. If he
had had to be a dry-as-dust in order to be a writer on politics and history, Mr. Wilson would
have preferred to turn his attention to biography and literary criticism. But he promptly resolved
to disregard the warnings of pedants and to be a man of letters though a professor of history
and politics. I well remember the irritation, sometimes amused and sometimes angry, with which
he used to speak of those who were persuaded that scholarship was in some way contaminated
by the touch of imagination or philosophy. He at least would run the risk. And so he set himself
to work cultivating the graces of style no less assiduously than the exactness of science.
There is a distinct filiation in his diction, by which, from Stevenson to Lamb and from Lamb
to Sir Thomas Browne, one can trace it back to the quaint old prose writers of the seventeenth
century. I remember his calling my attention, in 1890, or thereabouts, to the delightful stylistic
qualities of those worthies. Many of his colors are from their ink-horns, in which the pigments
were of deep and varied hues. When he is sententious and didactic he seems to have caught something
of Emerson's manner. And indeed there is in all his writings a flavor of optimism and a slightly
dogmatic, even when thoroughly gentle and persuasive, tone which he has in common with the
New England sage.

But in spite of all these resemblances to older authors, Mr. Wilson gives proof in his style
of a masterful independence. He is constantly determined to think for himself, to get to the
bottom of his subject, and finally to express the matter in terms of his own personality. Especially
is this evident in his early works, where he struggles manfully to be himself, even in the
choice of words and phrases, weighing and analyzing the most current idioms and often making
in them some thoughtful alteration the better to express his exact meaning. His literary training
appears to have been almost wholly English. There are few traces in his writings of any classical
reading or of any first-hand acquaintance with French, German, or Italian authors. And indeed
in the substance of his thought I wonder if he is sufficiently hospitable to foreign ideas,
especially to the vast body of comment on the French Revolution. I imagine few Continental
authorities would agree with him in his comparatively low estimate of the importance of that
great movement, which he seems to regard with almost unmitigated disapproval.

In Mr. Wilson's addresses and public letters concerning the War he re-affirms his principles
and applies them with high confidence to the fateful problems of this time. His tone has become
vastly deeper and sounder since he made his great decision, and from his Speech to Congress,
on February 3, 1917, to his recent Baltimore appeal, it has rung true to every good impulse
in the hearts of our people. His letter to the Pope is in every way his master-piece, in style,
in temper, and in power of thought. He has led his country to the place it ought to occupy,
by the side of that other English democracy whose institutions, ideals, and destiny are almost
identical with our own, as he has demonstrated in the writings of half a lifetime. Let us hope
there was prophetic virtue in a passage of his Constitutional Government, where, speaking of
the relation between our several States and the Union that binds them together, he says they
"may yet afford the world itself the model of federation and liberty it may in God's providence
come to seek."

No one can rise from a perusal of the great mass of Mr. Wilson's writings without an almost
oppressive sense of his unremitting and strenuous industry. From his senior year in college
to the present day he has borne the anxieties and responsibilities of authorship. The work
has been done with extreme conscientiousness in regard to accuracy and clearness of thinking
and with sedulous care for justness and beauty of expression. It might well crown a life with
honor. And when we remember the thousands of his college lectures and the hundreds of his miscellaneous
addresses which have found no record in print, when we recall the labors of university administration
which crowded upon him in middle life, when we consider the spectacle of his calm, prompt,
orderly, and energetic performance of public duty in these latter years, our admiration for
the literary artist is enhanced by our profound respect for the man.[A]

[A] A considerable part of this Introduction appeared originally as an article in The Princeton
Alumni Weekly.

PRESIDENT WILSON'S ADDRESSES

FIRST INAUGURAL ADDRESS

[Delivered at the Capitol, in Washington, March 4, 1913.]

There has been a change of government. It began two years ago, when the House of Representatives
became Democratic by a decisive majority. It has now been completed. The Senate about to assemble
will also be Democratic. The offices of President and Vice-President have been put into the
hands of Democrats. What does the change mean? That is the question that is uppermost in our
minds to-day. That is the question I am going to try to answer, in order, if I may, to interpret
the occasion.

It means much more than the mere success of a party. The success of a party means little except
when the Nation is using that party for a large and definite purpose. No one can mistake the
purpose for which the Nation now seeks to use the Democratic Party. It seeks to use it to interpret
a change in its own plans and point of view. Some old things with which we had grown familiar,
and which had begun to creep into the very habit of our thought and of our lives, have altered
their aspect as we have latterly looked critically upon them, with fresh, awakened eyes; have
dropped their disguises and shown themselves alien and sinister. Some new things, as we look
frankly upon them, willing to comprehend their real character, have come to assume the aspect
of things long believed in and familiar, stuff of our own convictions. We have been refreshed
by a new insight into our own life.

We see that in many things that life is very great. It is incomparably great in its material
aspects, in its body of wealth, in the diversity and sweep of its energy, in the industries
which have been conceived and built up by the genius of individual men and the limitless enterprise
of groups of men. It is great, also, very great, in its moral force. Nowhere else in the world
have noble men and women exhibited in more striking forms the beauty and the energy of sympathy
and helpfulness and counsel in their efforts to rectify wrong, alleviate suffering, and set
the weak in the way of strength and hope. We have built up, moreover, a great system of government,
which has stood through a long age as in many respects a model for those who seek to set liberty
upon foundations that will endure against fortuitous change, against storm and accident. Our
life contains every great thing, and contains it in rich abundance.

