(832) George, Earl of Euston, who died in the lifetime of his
father.  He seems to have been a man of the most odious
character.  He has been already mentioned in the course
                            of these letters, upon the
occasion of his marriage with the ill-fated lady Dorothy
Boyle, who died from his ill-treatment of her.  Upon a picture
of lady Dorothy at the Duke of Devonshire's at Chiswick, is
the following touching inscription, written by her mother,
which commemorates her virtues and her fate:-

"lady Dorothy Boyle, Born May the 14th, 1724. She was the comfort and joy of her parents, the
delight of all who knew her angelick of temper, and the admiration of all who saw her beauty.
She was marry'd October the 10th, 1741, and delivered (by death) from misery, May the 2nd,
1742.  This picture was drawn seven weeks after her death (from memory) by her most affectionate
mother, Dorothy Burlington."-D.

329 letter 111 To Sir Horace Mann. Friday noon, July 29, 1743.

I don't know what I write-I am all a flurry of thoughts-a battle-a victory!  I dare not yet
be glad-I know no particulars of my friends.  This instant my lord has had a messenger from
the Duke of Newcastle, who has sent him a copy of Lord Carteret's letter from the field of
battle.  The King was in all the heat of the fire, and safe--the Duke is wounded in the calf
of the leg, but slightly; Duc d'Aremberg in the breast; General Clayton and Colonel Piers are
the only officers of note said to be killed-here is all my trust!  The French passed the Mayne
that morning with twenty-five thousand men, and are driven back.  We have lost two thousand,
and they four-several of their general officers, and of the Maison du Roi, are taken prisoners:
the battle lasted from ten in the morning till four.  The Hanoverians behaved admirably.  The
Imperialists(833) were the aggressors; in short, 'In all public views, it is all that could
be wished-the King in the action, and his son wounded-the Hanoverians behaving well-the French
beaten: what obloquy will not all this wipe out! Triumph, and write it to Rome! I don't know
what our numbers were; I believe about thirty thousand, for there were twelve thousand Hessians
and Hanoverians who had not joined them.  O! in my hurry, I had forgot the place-you must talk
of the battle of Dettingen!

After dinner.  My child, I am calling together all my thoughts, and rejoice in this victory
as much as I dare; for in the raptures of' conquest, how dare I think that my Lord Carteret,
or the rest of those who have written, thought just of whom I thought? The post comes in tomorrow
morning, but it is not sure that we shall learn any particular certainties so soon as that.
Well! how happy it is that the King has had such an opportunity of distinguishing himself'!(834)
what a figure he will make!  They talked of its being below his dignity to command an auxiliary
army: my lord says it will not be thought below his dignity to have sought dangers These were
the flower of the French troops: I flatter myself they will tempt no more battles.  such, and
we might march from one end of France to the other.  So we are in a French war, at least well
begun! My lord has been drinking the healths of Lord Stair and Lord Carteret: he says, "since
it was well done, he does not care by whom it was done."  He thinks differently from the rest
of the world: he thought from the first, that France never missed such an opportunity as when
they undertook the German war, instead of joining with Spain against us.  If I hear any more
tomorrow before the post goes out, I will let you know.  Tell me if this is the first you hear
of the victory: I would fain be the first to give you so much pleasure.

Saturday morning.

Well, my dear child, all is safe! I have not so much as an acquaintance hurt.  The more we
hear the greater it turns out. Lord Cholmondeley writes my lord from London that we gained
the victory with only fifteen regiments, not eleven thousand men, and SO not half in number
to the French.  I fancy their soldiery behaved ill, by the Gallantry of their officers; for
Ranby, the King'S private surgeon, writes that he alone has 150 officers of distinction desperately
wounded under his care.  Marquis Fenelon's son is among the prisoners, and says Marshal Noailles
is dangerously wounded; so is Duc d'Aremberg. Honeywood's regiment sustained the attack, and
are almost all killed: his natural son has five wounds, and cannot live.  The horse were pursuing
when the letters came away, so there is no certain account of the slaughter.  Lord Albemarle
had his horse shot under him.  In short, the victory is complete. There is no describing what
one hears of the spirits and bravery of our men.  One of them dressed himself up in the belts
of three officers, and swore he would wear them as long as he lived.  Another ran up to Lord
Carteret, who was in a coach near the action the whole time, and said, "Here, my lord, do hold
this watch for me; I have just killed a French officer and taken it, and I will go take another."

Adieu! my dear Sir: May the rest of the war be as glorious as the beginning!

(833) The Bavarians.

(834) Frederick the Great, in his "Histoire de mon Temps," gives the Following account of George
the Second at the battle of Dettingen.  "The King was on horseback, and rode forward to reconnoitre
the enemy: his horse, frightened at the cannonading, ran away with his Majesty, and nearly
carried him into the midst of the French lines: fortunately, one of his attendants succeeded
in stopping him.  George then abandoned his horse, and fought on foot, at the head of his Hanoverian
battalions.  With his sword drawn, and his body placed in the attitude of a fencing-master,
who is about to make a lunge in carte, he continued to expose himself, without Circling, to
the enemy's fire."-D.

To Mr. Chute.

My dear Sir, I wish you joy, and you wish me joy, and Mr. Whithed, and Mr. Mann, and Mrs. Bosville,
etc.  Don't get drunk and get the gout.  I expect to be drunk with hogsheads of the Mayne-water,
and with odes to his Majesty and the Duke, and Te Deums.  Patapan begs you will get him a dispensation
from Rome to go and hear the thanksgiving at St. Paul's.  We are all mad-drums, trumpets, bumpers,
bonfires! The mob are wild, and cry, "Long live King George and the Duke of Cumberland, and
Lord Stair and Lord Carteret, and General Clayton that's dead!" My Lord Lovel says, "Thanks
to the gods that John(835) has done his duty!"

Adieu! my dear Dukes of Marlborough! I am ever your JOHN DUKE OF MARLBOROUGh.

I have got the Life of King Theodore, but I don't know how to convey it--I will inquire for
some way.

We are quite alone.

(836) The two sons of the Duke du Maine, a natural son, but legitimated, of Lewis the Fourteenth,
by Madame de Montespan.-E.

(837) Where Mr. Pelham lived.

(838) Charles Montagu, Earl of Halifax, the "Bufo" of Pope

"Proud as Apollo, on his forked hill Sate full-blown Bufo, I)uff'd by every quill; Fed with
soft dedication all day long, Horace and he went hand in hand in song."-E.

333 Letter 113 To Sir Horace Mann. Houghton, July 11, 1743.

The Pembroke is arrived! Your brother slipped a slice of paper into a letter which he sent
me from you the other day, with those pleasant words, "The Pembroke is arrived." I am going
to receive it. I shall be in town the end of this week, only stay there about ten days, and
wait on the Dominichin hither.  Now I tremble!  If it should not stand the trial among the
number of capital pictures here!  But it must; It will.

O, sweet lady!(839) What shall I do about her letter? I must answer it-and where to find a
penful of Italian in the world, I know not.  Well, she must take what she can get: gold and
silver I have not, but what I have I give unto her.  Do you say a vast deal of my concern for
her illness, and that I could not find decompounds and superlatives enough to express myself.
You never tell me a syllable from my sovereign lady the princess: has she forgot me? What is
become of Prince Beauvau?(840) is he warring against us? Shall I write to Mr. Conway to be
very civil to him for my sake, if he is taken prisoner?  We expect another battle every day.
Broglio has joined Noailles, and Prince Charles is on the Neckar. Noailles says, "Qu'il a fait
une folie, mais qu'il est pr`et `a la r`eparer."  There is great blame thrown on Baron Ilton,
the Hanoverian General for having hindered the Guards from en(,aging.  If they had, and the
horse, who behaved wretchedly, had done their duty, it is agreed that there would be no second
engagement.  The poor Duke is in a much worse way than was at first apprehended: his wound
proves a bad one; he is gross, and has had a shivering fit, which is often the forerunner of
a mortification.  There has been much thought of making knights-banneret, but I believe the
scheme is laid aside; for, in the first place, they are never made but on the field of battle,
and now it was not thought on till some days after; and besides, the King intended to make
some who were not actually in the battle.

Adieu! Possibly I may hear something in town worth telling you.

(839) Madame Grifoni.

(840) Son of Prince Craon.

334 letter 114 To Sir Horace Mann. Arlington Street, July 19.

Here am I come a-Dominichining! and the first thing, I hear is, that the Pembroke must perform
quarantine fourteen days for coming from the Mediterranean, and a week airing.  It is forty
days, if they bring the plague from Sicily.  I will bear this misfortune as heroically as I
can; and considering I have London to bear it in, may possibly support it well enough.

The private letters from the army all talk of the King's going to Hanover, 2nd of August, N.
S. If he should not, one shall be no longer in pain for him; for the French have repassed the
Rhine, and think only of preparing against Prince Charles, who is marching sixty-two thousand
men, full of conquest and revenge, to regain his own country.  I most cordially wish him success,
and that his bravery may recover what his abject brother gave up so tamely, and which he takes
as little personal pains to regain.  It is not at all determined whether we are to carry the
war into France.  It is ridiculous enough! we have the name of war with Spain, without the
thing and war with France, without the name!

The maiden heroes of the Guards are in great wrath with General Ilton, who kept them out of
harm's way.  They call him "the Confectioner," because he says he preserved them.

The week before I left Houghton my father had a most dreadful accident: it had near been fatal;
but he escaped miraculously. He dined abroad, and went up to sleep.  As he was coming down
again, not quite awakened, he was surprised at seeing the company through a glass-door which
he had not observed: his foot slipped, and he, who is now entirely unwieldy and helpless, fell
at once down the stairs against the door, which, had it not been there, he had dashed himself
to pieces, in a stone hall.  He cut his forehead two inches long to the pericranium, and another
gash upon his temple; but, most luckily, did himself' no other hurt, and was quite well again
before I came away.

I find Lord Stafford (841) married to Miss Cantillon; they are to live half the year in London,
half in Paris.  Lord Lincoln is soon to marry his cousin Miss Pelham: it will be great joy
to the whole house of Newcastle.

There is no determination yet come about the Treasury.  Most people wish for Mr. Pelham; few
for Lord Carteret; none for Lord Bath.  My Lady TOWnshend said an admirable thing the other
day to this last: he was complaining much of a pain in his side-"Oh!" said she, "that can't
be; you have no side."

I have a new cabinet for my enamels and miniatures Just come home, which I am sure you would
like: it is of rosewood; the doors inlaid with carvings in ivory.' I wish you could see 'It!
Are you to be forever ministerial sans rel`ache?  Are you never to have leave to come and "settle
your private affairs," as the newspapers call it?

A thousand loves to the Chutes.  Does my sovereign lady yet remember me, or has she lost with
her eyes all thought of m! Adieu!

P.S. Princess Louisa goes soon to her young Denmark: and Princess Emily, it is now said, will
have the man of Lubeck. If he had missed the crown of Sweden, he was to have taken Princess
Caroline, because, in his private capacity, he was not a competent match for the now-first
daughter of England. He is extremely handsome; it is fifteen years since Princess Emily was so.

(841) William-Matthias, third Earl of Stafford.  He died in 1751 without issue.-E.

335 letter 115 To Sir Horace Mann. Arlington Street, July 31, 1743.

If I went by my last week's reason for not writing to you, I should miss this post too, for
I have no more to tell you than I had then; but at that rate, there would be great vacuums
in our correspondence.  I am still here, waiting for the Dominichin and the rest of the things.
I have incredibly trouble about them, for they arrived just as the quarantine was established.
Then they found out that the Pembroke had left the fleet so long before the infection in Sicily
began, and had not touched at any port there, that the admiralty absolved it.  Then the things
were brought up; then they were sent back to be aired; and still I am not to have them in a
week.  I tremble for the pictures; for they are to be aired at the rough discretion of a master
of a hoy, for nobody I could send would be suffered to go aboard.  The city is outrageous;
for you know, to merchants there is no plague so dreadful as a stoppage of their trade. The
regency are so temporizing and timid, especially in this inter-ministerium, that I am in great
apprehensions of our having the plague an island, so many ports, no power absolute or active
enough to establish the necessary precautions, and all are necessary! And now it is on the
continent too! While confined to Sicily there were hopes: but I scarce conceive that it will
stop in two or three villages in Calabria.  My dear child, Heaven preserve you from it! I am
in the utmost pain on its being so near you.  What will you do! whither will you go, if it
reaches Tuscany? Never think of staying in Florence: shall I get you permission to retire out
of that State, in case of danger? but sure you would not hesitate on such a crisis!

We have no news from the army: the minister there communicates nothing to those here.  No answer
comes about the Treasury. All is suspense: and clouds of breaches ready to burst.  now strange
is this jumble! France with an unsettled ministry; England with an unsettled one; a victory
just gained over them, yet no war ensuing, or declared from either side; our minister still
at Paris, as if to settle an amicable intelligence of the losses on both sides!  I think there
was Only wanting for Mr. Thompson to notify to them in form our victory over them, and for
Bussy(843) to have civil letters of congratulation-'tis so well-bred an age!

I must tell you a bon-mot of Winnington.  I was at dinner with him and Lord Lincoln and Lord
Stafford last week, and it happened to be a maigre day of which Stafford was talking, though,
you may believe, without any scruples; "Why," said Winnington, "what a religion is yours! they
let you eat nothing, and vet make you swallow every thing!"

My dear child, you will think when I am going to give you a new commission, that I ought to
remember those you give me. Indeed I have not forgot one, though I know not how to execute
them.  The Life of King Theodore is too big to send but by a messenger; by the first that goes
you shall have it.  For cobolt and zingho, your brother and I have made all inquiries, but
almost in vain, except that one person has told him that there Is some such thing in Lancashire;
I have written thither to inquire.  For the tea-trees, it is my brother-'s fault, whom I desired,
as he is at Chelsea, to get some from the Physic-garden: he forgot it; but now I am in town
myself, if possible, you shall have some seed.  After this, I still know not how to give you
a commission, for you over-execute; but on conditions uninfringeable, I will give you one.
I have begun to collect drawings: now, if you will at any time buy me any that you meet with
at reasonable rates, for I will not give great prices, I shall be much obliged to you.  I would
not have above one, to be sure, of any of the Florentine school, nor above one of any master
after the immediate scholars of Carlo Maratti.  For the Bolognese school, I care not how many;
though I fear they will be too dear.  But Mr. Chute understands them.  One condition is, that
if he collects drawings as well as prints, there is an end of the commission; for you shall
not buy me any, when he perhaps would like to purchase them.  The other condition is, that
you regularly set down the prices you pay; otherwise, if you send me any without the price,
I instantly return them unopened to your brother: this, upon my honour, I will most strictly
perform.

Adieu! write me minutely the history of the plague.  If it makes any progress towards you,
I shall be a most unhappy man. I am far from easy on our own account here.

(843) Mr. Thompson and the Abb`e de Bussy were the English and French residents.

336 letter 117 To Sir Horace Mann. Arlington Street, Aug. 14, 1743.

I should write to Mr. Chute to-day, but I won't till next post: I will tell you why presently.
Last week I did not write at all; because I was every day waiting for the Dominichin, etc.
which I at last got last night-But oh!  that etc.! It makes me write to you, but I must leave
it etc. for I can't undertake to develop it.  I can find no words to thank you from my own
fund; but Must apply an expression of the Princess Craon's to myself, Which the number of charming
things you have sent me absolutely melts down from the bombast, of which it consisted when
she sent it me. "Monsieur, votre g`en`erosit`e," (I am not sure it was not "votre magnificence,")
"ne me laisse rien `a d`esirer de tout ce qui se trouve de pr`ecieux en Angleterre, dans la
Chine, et aux Indes." But still this don't express etc.  The charming Madame S`evign`e, who
was still handsomer than Madame de Craon, and had infinite wit, condescended to pun on sending
her daughter an excessively fine pearl necklace-"Voil`a, ma fille, un pr`esent passant tous
les pr`esents pass`es et pr`esents!"  Do you know that these words reduced to serious meaning,
are not sufficient for what you have sent me! If I were not afraid of giving you all the trouble
of airing and quarantine which I have had with them, I would send them to you back again! It
is well our virtue is out of the ministry!  What reproach it would undergo! Why, my dear child,
here would be bribery in folio! How would mortals stare at such a present as this to the son
of a fallen minister! I believe half of it would reinstate us again though the vast box of
essences would not half sweeten the treasury after the dirty wretches that have fouled it since.

The Dominichin is safe; so is every thing.  I cannot think it of the same hand with the Sasso
Ferrati you sent me.  This last is not so manier`e as the Dominichin; for the more I look at
it, the more I am convinced it is of him.  It goes down with me to-morrow to Houghton.  The
Andrea del Sarto is particularly fine! the Sasso Ferriti particularly graceful-oh! I should
have kept that word for the Magdalen's head, which is beautiful beyond measure.  Indeed, my
dear Sir, I am glad, after my confusion is a little abated, that your part of the things is
so delightful; for I am very little satisfied with my own purchases.  Donato Creti's(844) copy
is a wretched, raw daub; the beautiful Virgin of the original he has made horrible.  Then for
the statue, the face is not so broad as my nail, and has not the turn of the antique.  Indeed,
La Vall`ee has done the drapery well, but I can't pardon him the head. My table I like; though
he has stuck in among the ornaments two vile china jars, that look like the modern japanning
by ladies.  The Hermaphrodite, on my seeing it again, is too sharp and hard-in short, your
present has put me out of humour with every thing of my own.  You shall hear next week how
my lord is satisfied with his Dominichin.  I have received the letter and drawings by Crewe.
By the way, my drawings of the gallery are as bad as any thing of my own ordering.  They gave
Crewe the letter for you at the-office, I believe, for I knew nothing of his going, or I had
sent you the Life of King Theodore.

I was interrupted in my letter this morning by the Duke of Devonshire, who called to see the
Dominichin.  Nobody knows pictures better: he was charmed with it, and did not doubt its Dominichinality.

I find another letter from you to-night of August 6th, and thank you a thousand times for your
goodness about Mr. Conway: but I believe I told you, that as he is in the Guards, he was not
engaged.  We hear nothing but that we are going to cross the Rhine.  All we know is from private
letters: the Ministry hear nothing.  When the Hussars went to Kevenhuller for orders, he said,
"Messieurs, l'Alsace est `a vous; je n'ai point d'autres ordres `a vous donner."  They have
accordingly taken up their residence in a fine chateau belonging to the Cardinal de Rohan,
as Bishop of Strasbourg. We expect nothing but war; and that war expects nothing but conquest.

Your account of our officers was very false; for, instead of the soldiers going on without
commanders, some of them were ready to go without their soldiers.  I am sorry you have such
plague with your Neptune(845) and the Sardinian-we know not of them scarce.

I really forget any thing of an Italian greyhound for the Tesi.  I promised her, I remember,
a black spaniel-but how to send it! I did promise one of the former to Marquis Mari at Genoa,
which I absolutely have not been able to get yet, though I have often tried; but since the
last Lord Halifax died, there is no meeting with any of the breed.  If I can, I will get her
one.  I am sorry you are engaged in the opera.  I have found it a most dear undertaking.  I
was not in the management: Lord Middlesex was chief.  We were thirty subscribers, at two hundred
pounds each, which was to last four years, and no other demands ever to be made.  Instead of
that, we have been made to pay fifty-six pounds over and above the subscription in one winter.
I told the secretary in a passion, that it was the last money I would ever pay for the follies
of directors.

I tremble at hearing that the plague is not over, as we thought, but still spreading.  You
will see in the papers That Lord Hervey is dead-luckily, I think. for himself; for he had outlived
the last inch of character.  Adieu!

(844) A copy of a celebrated picture by Guido at Bologna, of the Patron Saints of that city.
VOL. 1. 29.-D.

(845) Admiral Matthews.

338 letter 117 To John Chute, Esq.(846) Houghton, August 20, 1743.

Indeed, my dear Sir, you certainly did not use to be stupid, and till you give me more substantial
proof that you are so, I shall not believe it.  As for your temperate diet and milk bringing
about such a metamorphosis, I hold it impossible.  I have such lamentable proofs every day
before my eyes of the stupefying qualities of beef, ale, and wine, that I have contracted a
most religious veneration for your spiritual nouriture.  Only imagine that I here every day
see men, who are mountains of roast beef, and only seem just roughly hewn out into the outlines
of human form, like the giant-rock at Pratolino! I shudder when I see them brandish their knives
in act to carve, and look on them as savages that devour one another.  I should not stare at
all more than I do, if yonder alderman at the lower end of the table was to stick his fork
into his neighbour's jolly cheek, and cut a brave slice of brown and fat.  Why, I'll swear
I see no difference between a country gentleman and a sirloin; whenever the first laughs, or
the latter is cut, there runs out the same stream of gravy! Indeed, the sirloin does not ask
quite so many questions.  I have an aunt here, a family piece of goods, an old remnant of inquisitive
hospitality and economy, who, to all intents and purposes is as beefy as her neighbours.  She
wore me so down yesterday with interrogatories, that I dreamt all night she was at my ear with
who's and why's, and when's and where's, till at last in my very sleep I cried out, For God
in heaven's sake, Madam, ask me no more questions!

Oh! my dear Sir, don't you find that nine parts in ten of the world are of no use but to make
you wish yourself with that tenth part? I am so far from growing used to mankind by living
amongst them, that my natural ferocity and wildness does but every day grow worse.  They tire
me, they fatigue me; I don't know what to do with them; I don't know what to say to them; I
fling open the windows and fancy I want air; and when I get by myself, I undress myself, and
seem to have had people in my pockets, in my plaits, -and on my shoulders! I indeed find this
fatigue worse in the country than in town, because one can avoid it there, and has more resources;
but it is there too.  I fear 'tis growing old; but I literally seem to have murdered a man
whose name was Ennui, for his ghost is ever before me.  They say there is no English word for
ennui;(847) I think you may translate it most literally by what is called "entertaining people,"
and "doing the honours:" that is, you sit an hour with somebody you don't know, and don't care
for, talk about the wind and the weather, and ask a thousand foolish questions, which all begin
with, "I think you live a good deal in the country," or, "I think you don't love this thing
or that."  Oh! 'tis dreadful!

I'll tell you what is delightful-the Dominichin!(848)  My dear Sir, if ever there was a Dominichin,
if ever there was an original picture, this is one.  I am quite happy; for my father is as
much transported with it as I am.  It is hung in the gallery, where are all his most capital
pictures, and he himself thinks it beats all but the two Guido'S.  That of the Doctors and
The Octagon-I don't know if you ever saw them? What a chain of thought this leads me into!
but why should I not indulge it? I will flatter myself with your, some time or other, passing
a few days with me.  Why must I never expect to see any thing but Beefs in a gallery which
would not yield even to the Colonna! If I do not most unlimitedly wish to see you and Mr. Whithed
in it this very moment, it is only because I would not take you from our dear Mann.  Adieu!
you charming people all.  Is not Madam Bosville a Beef? Yours, most sincerely.

(846) this very lively letter is the first of a series, hitherto unpublished, addressed by
Mr. Walpole to John Chute, Esq. of the Vine, in the county of Hants.  Mr. Chute was the grandson
of Chaloner Chute, Esq.  Speaker of the House of Commons to Richard Cromwell's parliament.
On the death of his brother Anthony, in 1754, he succeeded to the family estates, and died
in 1776.-E.

(847) According to Lord Byron--

"Ennui is a growth of English root, Though nameless in our language: we retort The fact for
words, and let the French translate That awful yawn, which sleep cannot abate."

(848) Thus described by Walpole in his Description Of the Pictures at Houghton Hall:- "The
Virgin and Child, a most beautiful, bright, and capital picture, by Dominichino: bought out
of the Zambeccari palace at Bologna by Horace Walpole, junior."-E.

340 Letter 118 To Sir Horace Mann. Houghton, Aug. 29, 1743.

You frighten me about the Spaniards entering Tuscany: it is so probable, that I have no hopes
against it but in their weakness.  If all the accounts of their weakness and desertion are
true, it must be easy to repel them.  If their march to Florence is to keep pace with Prince
Charles's entering Lorrain, it is not yet near: hitherto, he has not found the passage of the
Rhine practicable.  The French have assembled greater armies to oppose it than was expected.
We are marching to assist him: the King goes on with the army.  I am extremely sorry for the
Chevalier de Beauvau's(849) accident; as sorry, perhaps, as the prince or princess; for you
know he was no favourite.  The release of the French prisoners prevents the civilities which
I would have taken care to have had shown him.  You may tell the princess, that though it will
be so much honour to us to have any of her family it) our power, vet I shall always be extremely
concerned to have such an opportunity of showing my attention to them.  there's a period in
her own style-"Comment! Monsieur des attentions: qu'il est poli! qu'il s`cait tOUrner une civilit`e!"

"Ha!(850) la brave Angloise! e viva!"  What would I have given to have overheard you breaking
it to the gallant!  But of all, commend me to the good man Nykin!  Why, Mamie (851) himself
could not have cuddled up an affair for his sovereign lady better.

                         I have a commission from my lord to
send you ten thousand thanks for his bronze-. He admires it
beyond measure.  It came down last Friday, on his
birthday,(852) and was placed at the upper end of the gallery,
which was illuminated on the occasion: indeed, it is
incredible what a magnificent appearance it made.  There were
sixty-four candles, which showed all the pictures to great
advantage.  The Dominichin did itself and us honour.  There is
not the least question of its being original: one might as
well doubt the originality of King Patapan!  His patapanic
majesty is not one of the least curiosities of Houghton.  The
crowds that come to see the house stare at him, and ask what
creature it is.  As he does not speak one word of Norfolk,
there are strange conjectures made about him.  Some think that
he is a foreign prince come to marry Lady Mary.  The
disaffected say he is a Hanoverian: but the common people, who
observe my lord's vast fondness for him, take him for his good
genius, which they call his familiar.

You will have seen in the papers that Mr. Pelham is at last first lord of the Treasury.  Lord
Bath had sent over Sir John Rushout's valet de chambre to Hanau to ask it.  It is a great question
now what side he will take; or rather, if any side will take him.  It is not yet known what
the good folks in the Treasury will do-I believe, what they can.  Nothing farther will be determined
till the King's return.

(849) Third son of Prince Craon, and knight of Malta.

(850) This relates to an intrigue which was observed in a church between an English gentleman
and a lady who was at Florence with her husband.  Mr. Mann was desired to speak to the lover
to choose more proper places.

(851) Prince Craon's name for the princess.  She was mistress of Leopold, the last Duke of
Lorrain, who married her to M. de Beauvau, and prevailed on the Emperor to make him a prince
of the empire.  Leopold had twenty children by her, who all resembled him; and he got his death
by a cold which he contracted in standing to sea a new house, which he had built for her, furnished.
The duchess was extremely jealous, and once retired to Paris, to complain to her brother the
Regent; but he was not a man to quarrel with his brother-in-law for things of that nature,
and sent his sister back.  Madame de Craon gave into devotion after the Duke's death.

(852) August 26.

(853) Youngest daughter of George the Second.  She was married in the following October, and
died in 1751, at the age of twenty-seven.-E.

(854) The residence of the Prince of Wales.  This noble building was burnt to the ground in
1795, and nothing of its furniture preserved but the tapestry that represents the Duke of Marlborough's
victories.-E.

343 letter 120 To sir Horace Mann. Houghton, Sept. 17, 1743.

As much as we laughed at Prince Craon's history of the King and Lord Stair, you see it was
not absolutely without foundation.  I don't just believe that he threatened his master with
the parliament.  They say he gives for reason of his Quitting, their not having accepted one
plan of operation that he has offered.  There is a long memorial that he presented to the King,
with which I don't doubt but his lordship will oblige the public.(856)  He has ordered all
his equipages to be sold by public auction in the camp.  This is all I can tell you of this
event, and this is more than has been written to the ministry here.  They talk of great uneasinesses
among the English officers, all of which I don't believe.  The army is put into commission.
Prince Charles has not passed the Rhine, nor we any thing but our time.  The papers of to-day
tell us of a definitive treaty signed by us and the Queen of Hungary with the King of Sardinia,
which I will flatter myself will tend to your defence.  I am not in much less trepidation about
Tuscany than Richcourt is, though I scarce think my fears reasonable; but while you are concerned,
I fear every thing.

My lord does not admire the account of the lanfranc; thanks you, and will let it alone.  I
am going to town in ten days, not a little tired of the country, and in the utmost impatience
for the winter; which I am sure from all political prospects, must be entertaining to one who
only intends to see them at the length of the telescope. I was lately diverted with an article
in the Abecodario Pittorico, in the article of William Dobson: it says, "Nacque nel quartiere
d'Holbrons in Inghilterra."(857)  Did the author take Holborn for a city, or Inghilterra for
the capital of the island of London?  Adieu!

(856) In this memorial Lord Stair complained that his advice had been slighted, hinted at Hanoverian
partialities, and asked permission to retire, as he expressed it, to his plough. His resignation
was accepted, with marks of the King's displeasure at the language in which it was tendered.-E.

(857) Charles the First used to call Dobson the English Tintoret.  He is said to have been
the first painter who introduced the practice of obliging persons who sat to him to pay half
the price in advance.-E.

344 letter 121 To Sir Horace Mann. Newmarket, Oct. 3, 1743.

I am writing to you in an inn on the road to London.  What a paradise should I have thought
this when I was in the Italian inns in a wide barn with four ample windows, which had nothing
more like glass than shutters and iron bars ' no tester to the bed, and the saddles and portmanteaus
heaped on me to keep off the cold.  What a paradise did I think the inn at Dover when I came
back! and what magnificence Were twopenny prints, saltcellars, and boxes to hold the knives:
but the summum bonum was small-beer and the newspaper.

"I bless'd my stars, and called it luxury!"

