At daybreak, the little patch of blue up aloft that mariners so delight to see, shewed us hopes
of a fine day. Shortly afterwards we observed a Russian corvette standing out from the land,
having just left the anchorage we are about to visit, namely, Olga bay, another fine harbour
on the Siberian seaboard. Here we found the Russian admiral, the "Vigilant," and an Italian
frigate--the "Vittor Pisani." From hence the "Pegasus" was despatched to Nagasaki, whilst we
and the "Vigilant" headed for Vladivostock, calling at Nayedznik bay on the way, and anchoring
for the night.

We made three or four attempts to start in the morning, but each time were compelled to delay
our departure, out of respect for the heavy fogs which would gather so rapidly in our vicinity.
When at length we did get outside, things did not improve, by which we infer that the maritime
region of Siberia is a dangerous one at this season. However we steamed along at a pretty brisk
rate, and by 10 a.m. had the satisfaction of seeing Vladivostock open out before us. This town
is Russia's principal seaport and naval station in this part of her dominions--the head quarters
of her navy, and the great military depôt. It has an extremely pleasant appearance from the
harbour. On going on shore, though, and examining things in detail I saw that the houses which
looked so charming from the ship were constructed of rough unhewn logs of timber, the crevices
being filled up with mud. The inhabitants are principally Russian, of course--soldiers and
sailors, with their wives; but, in addition, there are Coreans, Chinese, and a few (very few)
Japanese. The Russian women are coarse and masculine in appearance, are dressed in cotton print
gowns put on very slovenly, wear no covering on the head except their unkempt and dishevelled
hair, ride on horseback like a man, and have their feet and legs encased in enormous sea-boots.
Everybody wears these leather boots just as everyone is an equestrian. Even the officers' wives
have a slovenly, faded look; and I can honestly say that I never saw one amongst them whom,
from her appearance, I should style a lady. There is scarcely a street or road in the place,
and the only thoroughfare is that suggested by the deep and sloppy ruts made by the heavy lumbering
cart and the uncomfortable drosky--the latter a four-wheeled concern peculiar to Russia, possessing
a couple of seats running fore and aft, and so near the ground that the passengers' feet are
in imminent danger of being brought in contact with stray stones and other inequalities.

In a town such as this one would expect to find commodities both reasonable in price and plenty
in variety. Not so, however; what little business there is in the provision line is in the
hands of the "ubiquitous"--I mean the Chinaman. Lemonade is a thing unknown, and none of us
was bold enough to tackle that vile brew--Russian beer. Of course, like all salt water fish,
after being on shore for a short time we wanted "damping;" but there seemed no possibility
of our wants being understood, as, seemingly, nobody could speak English. Now, when the British
seaman particularly wants anything to drink, and can't get it, he generally uses language which
(all things considered) is rather more forcible than polite--that is to say, we would not care
for ladies to hear it. It was so here. Vladivostock was this, that, and the other, garnished
with sundry and manifold adjectives; in fact it was anything but a town. I dare say, had our
sailors the least inkling that all this while they were listened to and understood, they would
have reserved some of their more choice figures of speech. It was so, however; for suddenly
somebody asked, in splendid English, "Do you require anything, gentlemen?" Our interrogator
was a Russian military officer, with several ribbons and crosses on his broad breast. We stated
our difficulty, and he very politely directed us to a French hotel, and even accompanied us
part of the way. I certainly was not prepared to hear English spoken so well by a Rooski.

CHAPTER XII.

    "Come, friends, who plough the sea,
    A truce to navigation, let's take another station."

  CHEFOO--NAGASAKI EN ROUTE.--JAPAN REVISITED.--
  KOBE.--YOKOHAMA.

August 31st.--At the early hour of four this morning the shrill sound of those ear-piercing
instruments, the boatswains' pipes in combination, resounded clearly and distinctly in the
pure raw air, as "all hands" summoned the sleepy crew to heave up anchor. In less than an hour,
thanks to the modern sailors' help, the steam capstan, our white wings were spread for the
expected breeze outside the harbour. As yet, however, the wind has not been enticed, it being,
as one of our shipmates from the sister isle put it, "a dead calm, with what wind there was
dead ahead." Further on we overhauled a splendid breeze, which caused our canvas to strain
in every fibre as we careened to its pressure. This gave us such material help that by noon
of next day we had carved a good big slice out of the six hundred miles to Nagasaki.

September 3rd.--From the greasy appearance of the moon last night, and from a study of other
varied phenomena whereby sailors, from time immemorial, have learnt to forecast the weather,
we "smelt" a change of some sort was about to happen; and we sleepers, on turning out in the
morning, were in no wise surprised to find that the wind had headed us, that all the sails
were furled, and the ship poking her nose into a nasty sea. But this was a blind: the clerk
of the weather was evidently meditating a stronger blow from the original direction, and had
only gone on ahead to seek some of his refractory forces to give us the full benefit of the
combination. All sail again, fast and furious we drove through it, and succeeded in knocking
"seven and a bit" out of the old "Duke;" 'twould take something like a hurricane to persuade
her to more. We tore past Tsu-sima, an island in the Corea strait, and laughingly cleared the
run down to Nagasaki.

September 4th.--As information had reached us at Vladivostock that cholera was raging pretty
freely at Nagasaki, instead of proceeding at once to the anchorage we brought up at the mouth
of the harbour, under the lee of Tacabuco, until such times as we should hear more definite
and accurate accounts of the extent of the enemy's depredations. Like another much-libelled
personage, who is often painted much blacker than he perhaps is, the cholera, through undoubtedly
present, was confined to the poorer haunts of the city, so that with necessary precautions
there was nothing to fear. Stopping everybody's leave, though, unfortunately happened to be
a necessary precaution, and communication with the shore was limited to the visits of the bumboat
and washermen.

On the following morning we commenced to fill up with coal. I have before remarked that in
this port we have lady coal heavers. It so chanced that for once they were rather short-handed,
and to expedite the work a party of blue-jackets were sent to clear a spare lighter. Whether
or not they mistook the commander's order, or whether their eyes had got blinded with coal
dust I can't say, but sure am I that they failed, every man-jack of them, to go into the indicated
boat. May be, the sight of women at "unwomanly work" was too much for Jack's chivalry--at any
rate, they had jumped in among the women and were cheerfully heaving out the coal whilst the
latter bad a smoke. Now this, however laudable in itself, was clearly not the commander's intention,
and the gallants, much against their will, had to yield to pressure and clear the bachelor lighter.

September 7th.--In company with the "Growler" and "Sylvia" we left the shores of fair Nagasaki;
and after despatching the small fry about their business we shaped our course for Chefoo. The
wind for a short distance was again fair; but having, presumably, discovered its mistake, and
that we had had a full share of his favors lately, old boisterous suddenly changed his tactics,
and intimated to us in unmistakable language, by alternate lulls and squalls, that he was about
to do something rash. At noon of the second day out, after, we must confess, ample warning,
he had apparently decided what to do, the wind came up as foul as it could well be. We were
at this time off the island of Quelpart, still carrying reduced sail and barely going our course.

The breeze, though strong, was steady and all went well until the ship reached the western
extremity of the mountainous island, when, with a roar and a screech truly terrific, a squall
struck us in wild, fitful gusts. We were carrying reefed topsails and trysails at the time,
and it was fortunate that we had no more sail on, or surely our spars must have gone over the
side. As it was, the fore trysail split with the report of a cannon, and the main-topsail,
unable to stand the enormous strain, was torn from top to bottom. To make things more cheerful,
the clouds, in their sport, hurled blinding slanting sheets of water at us; for it would be
an error to say that rain fell. An effort was made to furl sails; but though there was no lack
of cheerful hands speedily on the yards, numbers became powerless to manipulate canvas which
by the combined elements had been converted into deal boards. As it was impossible that orders
could be heard from deck, the officers went aloft and lay out on the yards amongst the men,
encouraging them by voice and example. The attempt had to be given up and the sails secured
to the yards by lashings.

September 11th.--The dreary, monotonous, unenlivening coast line of China, with its interminable
sand hills and granite peaks, once more in sight. The landscapes of north China are, if anything,
more dreary than ever. We must however take the bad with the good. Chefoo lies before us, and
into Chefoo we are bound to go. We cannot, as yet, see any town, because of a sort of natural
breakwater of sand and rocks which stretches almost across the harbour's mouth; but that there
is an anchorage beyond is clear, from the thousands of masts pointing skyward. So slow was
our progress into the harbour that it seemed as if we were never going to get there at all;
but eventually we dropped anchor at about three miles from what I suppose pretends to be a
town, but which from such a distance looked more like a straggling village. We had gone in
quite far enough, though, for every revolution of the screws discoloured the water with sand
and mud, and, furthermore, I believe we touched, for a distinct not to be mistaken vibration
was clearly felt by all hands. This part of the anchorage is much exposed to the sea; and,
in the event of a blow from the northward, we are in a position to encounter its full fury.
Chefoo, notwithstanding its uninteresting appearance, seems to be a pretty regular port of
call for men-of-war, several of which are lying at anchor within the bar.

There must be some spots in the neighbourhood capable of cultivation, for our bumboat is loaded
with an abundance of tempting fruits--grapes of rich bloom and large growth, apples which would
do no discredit to a West of England orchard, and peaches scarcely inferior to those v of the
Mediterranean. And how cheap everything is--eggs you can get for the asking almost, whilst
a whole fowl (prepared and cooked in a manner which, out of charity to the Chinese culinary
art, we wont pry into too closely, but which our sailor gourmands relish nevertheless) is obtainable
for five cents! I refer, of course, to that bird which our shipmates denominate "dungaree chicken."
Our first impression of Chefoo is that it is the place of all others on the station to send
emaciated ships' companies to regain their stamina.

The district has a special manufacture of silk, much prized by our female friends at home,
made from the fibres of the bamboo. Did you ever see such a wonderful plant as that same bamboo?
I could not enumerate half the uses to which the natives of China and Japan apply its beautiful
slender golden stem. The silk, of a color resembling brown holland, is really very good, and
makes excellent summer out-door dresses for the European ladies and girls at Chefoo. Some of
the best costumes I noticed on shore were made of this material.

Shortly after our arrival the "Vigilant" came in, en route for Tientsin, a port further up
the Gulf of Pe-chili, and to the westward of us. You may perhaps remember that it was here
the recent massacre of some helpless French sisters of mercy took place, an event which at
one time seemed very likely to have embroiled China into a war with France.

I wonder if I should be wrong in saying that one of the principal reasons which makes this
so desirable a port for navy ships is the advantages presented by the sand-bar at the mouth
of the harbour for shore evolutions? This may or may not be so; but scarcely a week passed
without our captain taking us ashore to play at soldiers, and sometimes two or even three times
a week. The bar has many qualities suitable for military operations; a rocky grass-covered
mound at the western extremity in particular forming an excellent position for the field guns
and assaulting parties. This spot will be always remembered by our ship's company by the name
of Fort Cleveland, a name they themselves bestowed on it, because the captain, who conducted
these landing parties with strict regard to military tactics, so frequently made it the culminating
point in the day's manoeuvres.

After all it was deemed advisable to shift out of our present unsafe anchorage to a more secure
one inside the bar, and, as the "Modeste" was about to leave for Chusan, she came alongside
and took us in tow. We have met with no heavy weather here yet; but we shall be fortunate indeed
if we don't get a "brew" at this season.

We had been here somewhere about ten days when the Chinese governor came on board, attended,
as is the custom in China, by a numerous suite of lesser mandarins and their retainers. Chefoo
is an important military command, as well as one of the chief naval ports in the empire; hence
the governor is a high military mandarin. From the governor downwards they were all dressed
pretty much alike. The mandarins were distinguishable only by a button, worn on the top of
their mushroom hats. The colour and material of this button, like the "tails" of a pasha, indicate
the position of the wearer, the red being considered the highest of all. In addition to the
button the military insignia of a tuft of horse hair, dyed scarlet, depended from the top of
the hat of each, whilst some of the more fortunate wore a peacock's feather stuck jauntily
under the button. I say more fortunate because, like our K.C.B.'s, only a very few can ever
hope to attain to such a mark of the sovereign's favor. These feathers are bestowed by the
emperor, generally in person, on such of his subjects as have achieved some renown, either
as a soldier or in the equally honorable province of letters. We may well believe, then, that
amongst such a people as the Chinese, whose very breath almost is at the emperor's pleasure,
such a distinction is the chiefest ambition of every man; for all may aspire to it.

A day or so subsequent to the events I have described before, the captain of a trading junk
from Tientsin reported that the "Vigilant" had grounded in the Pei-ho, and had sustained considerable
damage to her rudder and stern-post, a report which was strictly true; for soon the admiral
returned, and at once ordered the "Vigilant" to Hong Kong for repairs.

Shortly before sailing the admiral inspected the ship. On this occasion "Sailor," our widowed
cat, was decked out in all the gay and gaudy trappings of a field officer on parade, and, what
is more to the point, he was seemingly quite aware that he was looking smart. I suppose "Sailor"
can never have read the "Jackdaw of Rheims," but he certainly looked the words of that conceited
bird as he strutted proudly along before the admiral; and I feel assured that, though the commander-in-chief
may not have thought much about the matter, there was no doubt in pussy's mind as to his being
one of the "greatest folk here to-day."

By the third day out we had reached the Corean archipelago, and found ourselves off the northern
coast of Quelpart, where we had recently met with such rough handling. The course was slightly
altered to enable us to touch at a small island in the same group, named Port Hamilton. This,
until very recently, was, I believe, the only place in the peninsula empire where foreigners--Europeans
and Americans--were allowed to hold any intercourse with the natives. It was left to our admiral
to alter this edict, and to break through their prejudices.

October 23rd.--At four o'clock this morning we dashed through the strait of Simoneski under
steam and canvas, with the wind dead aft and fresh, in company with some hundreds of junks,
whose bellying snowy sails and neat trim hulls had much the appearance of a yachting contest.

By sundown we had made the original anchorage. Owing, I suppose, to the season being further
advanced, the scenery has lost that freshness we noticed during our first trip through, but
not its charm--I think it could never do that. The little bay looked very lovely to-night with
the moon's flood of silver light streaming down on its thousand isles.

"Fair luna" had scarcely left us to gladden another world of night before the anchor was at
the bows and the ship holding on her onward course; and though the wind was both strong and
favourable, no advantage was taken of it to sail, for we were navigating such intricate labyrinths,
cutting so sharply around islets, and dodging in and out so many channels and passages, that
the jib and spanker were the only sails that could be used with any degree of safety; but when
at length we broke out into the open again, we spread our wings to the gale and made short
work of the distance to Kobé.

Our arrival was most opportune, both for ourselves and also for society on shore. To the regatta
committee we were specially welcome, for a regatta was to be held in the afternoon, and the
presence of our band was certainly a pleasing and unlooked-for item in the programme of proceedings.
Our third cutter took the first prize in the navy race, though it was an open question whether
the Russian boat did not deserve it. It was ruled that "Rooski" had forfeited all claim to
a place, in consequence of fouling twice--so somebody said; though there were others who declared
that ours fouled the Russians. This led to angry words, and a considerable show of splenetic
feeling amongst the committee, which was at length toned down by the appearance of a Russian
officer, who begged that, rightly or wrongly, the prize might be awarded to the English boat.

