While he did not forget his sweetheart--the thought of her was often in his mind, and the fact
that her future was so intimately connected with his own gave to every action a new meaning--he
had such a multitude of things to do and was so eager to get them all done at once that day
after day went by and he could not find time to call upon her.

Crane remonstrated in vain. His protests against Seaton's incessant work had no effect. Seaton
insisted that he must fix firmly just a few more points before they eluded him, and stuck doggedly
to his task.

Finally, Crane laid his work aside and went to call upon the girl. He found her just leaving
home, and fell into step beside her. For awhile she tried to rouse herself to be entertaining,
or at least friendly, but the usual ease with which she chatted had deserted her, and her false
gayety did not deceive the keen-minded Crane for an instant. Soon the two were silent as they
walked along together. Crane's thoughts were on the beautiful girl beside him, and on the splendid
young genius under his roof, so deeply immersed in his problem that he was insensible to everything
else.

       *       *       *       *       *

"I have just left Dick," Crane said suddenly, and paying no attention to her startled glance.
"Did you ever in your life see anyone with his singleness of purpose? With all his brilliance,
one idea at a time is all that he seems capable of--though that is probably why he is such
a genius. He is working himself insane. Has he told you about leaving the Bureau?"

"No. Has he? Has it anything to do with what happened that day at the laboratory? I haven't
seen him since the accident, or discovery, whichever it was, happened. He came to see me at
half-past ten, when he was invited for dinner--oh, Martin, I had been so angry!--and he told
such a preposterous story, I've been wondering since if I didn't dream it."

"No, you didn't dream it, no matter how wild it sounded. He said it, and it is all true. I
cannot explain it to you; Dick himself cannot explain it, even to me. But I can give you an
idea of what we both think it may come to."

"Yes, do."

"Well, he has discovered something that makes copper act mighty queer--knocks it off its feet,
so to speak. That day a piece went up and never did come down."

"Yes, that is what is so preposterous!"

"Just a moment, please," replied the imperturbable Crane. "You should know that nothing ordinary
can account for Dick's behavior, and after what I have seen this last week I shall never again
think anything preposterous. As I said, this piece of copper departed, via the window, for
scenes unknown. As far as a pair of good binoculars could follow it, it held to a perfectly
straight course toward those scenes. We intend to follow it in some suitable vehicle."

He paused, looking at his companion's face, but she did not speak.

"Building the conveyance is where I come in," he continued in his matter-of-fact voice. "As
you know, I happen to have almost as much money as Dick has brains, and some day, before the
summer is over, we expect to go somewhere. We do not know where, but it will be a long way
from this earth."

There was a silence, then Dorothy said, helplessly:

"Well, go on.... I can't understand...."

"Neither can I. All I know is that Dick wants to build a heavy steel hull, and he is going
to put something inside it that will take us out into space. Only occasionally do I see a little
light as he tries to explain the mechanism of the thing to me."

After enjoining upon her the strictest secrecy he repeated the story that Seaton had told him,
and informed her as to the present condition of affairs.

"It's no wonder the other chemists thought he was crazy, is it, Martin?"

"No, especially after the failure of his demonstration the next morning. You see, he tried
to prove to the others that he was right, and nothing happened. He has found out since that
an electrical machine in another room, which was not running that morning, played a very important
part. When the copper refused to act as it had the night before they all took the snap judgment
that he had suffered an attack of temporary insanity, and that the solution was worthless.
They called him 'Nobody Holme'."

"It almost fits, at that!" exclaimed Dorothy, laughing.

"But if he thought of that," she added, thoughtfully, "if he was brilliant enough to build
up such a wonderful theory ... think out such a thing as actually traveling to the stars ...
all on such a slight foundation of fact ... I wonder why he couldn't have told me?"

She hadn't meant to utter the last thought. Nobody must know how being left out of it had hurt
her, and she would have recalled the words if she could. Crane understood, and answered loyally.

"He will tell you all about it very soon, never fear. His is the mind of a great scientist,
working on a subject of which but very few men have even an inkling. I am certain that the
only reason he thought of me is that he could not finance the investigation alone. Never think
for an instant that his absorption implies a lack of fondness for you. You are his anchor,
his only hold on known things. In fact, it was about this that I came to see you. Dick is working
himself at a rate that not even a machine can stand. He eats hardly anything, and if he sleeps
at all, I have never caught him at it. That idea is driving him day and night, and if he goes
on the way he is going, it means a breakdown. I do not know whether you can make him listen
to reason or not--certainly no one else can. If you think you can do it, that is to be your
job, and it will be the biggest one of the three."

"How well you understand him," Dorothy said, after a pause. "You make me feel ashamed, Martin.
I should have known without being told. Then I wouldn't have had these nasty little doubts
about him."

"I should call them perfectly natural, considering the circumstances," he answered. "Men with
minds like Dick's are rare. They work on only one track. Your part will be hard. He will come
to you, bursting with news and aching to tell you all about his theories and facts and calculations,
and you must try to take his mind off the whole thing and make him think of something else.
It looks impossible to me."

       *       *       *       *       *

The smile had come back to Dorothy's face. Her head, graced by its wealth of gleaming auburn
hair, was borne proudly, and glancing mischief lit her violet eyes.

"Didn't you just tell me nothing is impossible? You know, Martin, that I can make Dicky forget
everything, even interstellar--did I get that word right?--space itself, with my violin."

"Trying to beguile a scientist from his hobby is comparable only to luring a drug addict away
from his vice ... but I would not be surprised if you could do it," he slowly replied.

For he had heard her play. She and Seaton had been caught near his home by a sudden shower
while on horseback, and had dashed in for shelter. While the rain beat outside and while Shiro
was preparing one of his famous suppers, Crane had suggested that she pass the time by playing
his "fiddle." Dorothy realized, with the first sweep of the bow, that she was playing a Stradivarius,
the like of which she had played before only in her dreams. She forgot her listeners, forgot
the time and the place, and poured out in her music all the beauty and tenderness of her nature.
Soft and full the tones filled the room, and in Crane's vision there rose a home filled with
happy work, with laughter and companionship, with playing children who turned their faces to
their mother as do flowers to the light. Sensing the girl's dreams as the music filled his
ears, he realized as never before in his busy, purposeful life how beautiful a home with the
right woman could be. No thought of love for Dorothy entered his mind, for he knew that the
love existing between her and his friend was of the kind that nothing could alter, but he felt
that she had unwittingly given him a great gift. Often thereafter in his lonely hours he had
imagined that dream-home, and nothing less than its perfection would ever satisfy him.

For a time they walked on in silence. On Dorothy's face was a tender look, the reflection of
her happy thoughts, and in Crane's mind floated again the vision of his ideal home, the home
whose central figure he was unable to visualize. At last she turned and placed her hand on his arm.

"You have done a great deal for me--for us," she said simply. "I wish there were something
I could do for you in return."

"You have already done much more than that for me, Dorothy," he answered, more slowly even
than usual. "It is hard for me to express just what it is, but I want you to know that you
and Dick mean much to me.... You are the first real woman I have ever known, and some day,
if life is good to me, I hope to have some girl as lovely care for me."

Dorothy's sensitive face flushed warmly. So unexpected and sincere was his praise that it made
her feel both proud and humble. She had never realized that this quiet, apparently unimaginative
man had seen all the ideals she expressed in her music. A woman expects to appear lovely to
her lover, and to the men who would be her lovers if they could, but here was a man who neither
sought nor expected any favors, saying that he wanted some girl as lovely for his own. Truly
it was a compliment to be cherished.

After they had returned to the house and Crane had taken his departure, Dorothy heard the purr
of a rapidly approaching motorcycle, and her heart leaped as she went to the door to welcome
her lover.

"It seems like a month since I saw you last, sweetheart!" he exclaimed, as he lifted her clear
from the floor in a passionate embrace and kissed in turn her lips, her eyes, the tip of her
nose, the elusive dimple in her cheek, and the adorable curve of her neck.

"It seems longer than that to me, Dicky. I was perfectly miserable until Martin called this
afternoon and explained what you have been doing."

"Yes, I met him on the way over. But honestly, Dottie, I simply couldn't get away. I wanted
to, the worst way, but everything went so slow...."

"Slow? When you have a whole laboratory installed in a week? What would you call speed?"

"About two days. And then, there were a lot of little ideas that had to be nailed down before
they got away from me. This is a horribly big job, Dottie, and when a fellow gets into it he
can't quit. But you know that I love you just the same, even though I do appear to neglect
you," he continued with fierce intensity. I love you with everything there is in me. "I love
you, mind, body and spirit; love you as a man should love the one and only woman. For you are
the only woman, there never was and never will be another. I love you morally, physically,
intellectually, and every other way there is, for the perfect little darling that you are."

She moved in his embrace and her arms tightened about his neck.

"You are the nearest thing to absolute perfection that ever came into this imperfect world,"
he continued. "Just to think of a girl of your sheer beauty, your ability, your charm, your
all-round perfection, being engaged to a thing like me, makes me dizzy--but I sure do love
you, little girl of mine. I will love you as long as we live, and afterward, my soul will love
your soul throughout eternity. You know that, sweetheart girl."

"Oh, Dick!" she whispered, her soul shaken with response to his love. "I never dreamed it possible
for a woman to love as I love you. 'Whither thou goest....'"

Her voice failed in the tempest of her emotion, and they clung together in silence.

They were finally interrupted by Dorothy's stately and gracious mother, who came in to greet
Seaton and invite him to have dinner with them.

"I knew that Dot would forget such an unimportant matter," she said, with a glint of Dorothy's
own mischief in her eyes.

       *       *       *       *       *

As they went into the dining-room Dorothy was amazed to see the changes that six days had wrought
in Seaton. His face looked thin, almost haggard. Fine lines had made their appearance at the
corners of his eyes and around his mouth, and faint but unmistakable blue rings encircled his eyes.

"You have been working too hard, boy," she reproved him gravely.

"Oh, no," he rejoined lightly. "I'm all right, I never felt better. Why, I could whip a rattlesnake
right now, and give him the first bite!"

She laughed at his reply, but the look of concern did not leave her face. As soon as they were
seated at the table she turned to her father, a clean-cut, gray-haired man of fifty, known
as one of the shrewdest attorneys in the city.

"Daddy," she demanded, "what do you mean by being elected director in the Seaton-Crane Company
and not telling me anything about it?"

"Daughter," he replied in the same tone, "what do you mean by asking such a question as that?
Don't you know that it is a lawyer's business to get information, and to give it out only to
paying clients? However, I can tell you all I know about the Seaton-Crane Company without adding
to your store of knowledge at all. I was present at one meeting, gravely voted 'aye' once,
and that is all."

"Didn't you draw up the articles of incorporation?"

"I am doing it, yes; but they don't mean anything. They merely empower the Company to do anything
it wants to, the same as other large companies do." Then, after a quick but searching glance
at Seaton's worn face and a warning glance at his daughter, he remarked:

"I read in the Star this evening that Enright and Stanwix will probably make the Australian
Davis Cup team, and that the Hawaiian with the unpronounceable name has broken three or four
more world's records. What do you think of our tennis chances this year, Dick?"

Dorothy flushed, and the conversation, steered by the lawyer into the safer channels, turned
to tennis, swimming, and other sports. Seaton, whose plate was unobtrusively kept full by Mr.
Vaneman, ate such a dinner as he had not eaten in weeks. After the meal was over they all went
into the spacious living-room, where the men ensconced themselves in comfortable Morris chairs
with long, black cigars between their teeth, and all four engaged in a spirited discussion
of various topics of the day. After a time, the older couple left the room, the lawyer going
into his study to work, as he always did in the evening.

"Well, Dicky, how's everything?" Dorothy asked, unthinkingly.

The result of this innocent question was astonishing. Seaton leaped to his feet. The problem,
dormant for two hours, was again in complete possession of his mind.

"Rotten!" he snapped, striding back and forth and brandishing his half-smoked cigar. "My head
is so thick that it takes a thousand years for an idea to filter into it. I should have the
whole thing clear by this time, but I haven't. There's something, some little factor, that
I can't get. I've almost had it a dozen times, but it always gets away from me. I know that
the force is there and I can liberate it, but I can't work out a system of control until I
can understand exactly why it acts the way it does." Then, more slowly, thinking aloud rather
than addressing the girl:

"The force is attraction toward all matter, generated by the vibrations of all the constituent
electrons in parallel planes. It is directed along a line perpendicular to the plane of vibration
at its center, and approaches infinity as the angle theta approaches the limit of Pi divided
by two. Therefore, by shifting the axis of rotation or the plane of vibration thus making theta
vary between the limits of zero and Pi divided by two...."

He was interrupted by Dorothy, who, mortified by her thoughtlessness in getting him started,
had sprung up and seized him by the arm.

"Sit down, Dicky!" she implored. "Sit down, you're rocking the boat! Save your mathematics
for Martin. Don't you know that I could never find out why 'x' was equal to 'y' or to anything
else in algebra?"

She led him back to his chair, where he drew her down to a seat on the arm beside him.

"Whom do you love?" she whispered gayly in his ear.

After a time she freed herself.

       *       *       *       *       *

"I haven't practised today. Don't you want me to play for you a little?"

"Fine business, Dottie. When you play a violin, it talks."

She took down her violin and played; first his favorites, crashing selections from operas and
solos by the great masters, abounding in harmonies on two strings. Then she changed to reveries
and soft, plaintive melodies. Seaton listened with profound enjoyment. Under the spell of the
music he relaxed, pushed out the footrest of the chair, and lay back at ease, smoking dreamily.
The cigar finished and his hands at rest, his eyes closed of themselves. The music, now a crooning
lullaby, grew softer and slower, until his deep and regular breathing showed that he was sound
asleep. She stopped playing and sat watching him intently, her violin in readiness to play
again, if he should show the least sign of waking, but there was no such sign. Freed from the
tyranny of the mighty brain which had been driving it so unmercifully, his body was making
up for many hours of lost sleep.

Assured that he was really asleep, Dorothy tip-toed to her father's study and quietly went in.

"Daddy, Dick is asleep out there in the chair. What shall we do with him?"

"Good work, Dottie Dimple. I heard you playing him to sleep--you almost put me to sleep as
well. I'll get a blanket and we'll put him to bed right where he is."

"Dear old Dad," she said softly, sitting on the arm of his chair and rubbing her cheek against
his. "You always did understand, didn't you?"

"I try to, Kitten," he answered, pulling her ear. "Seaton is too good a man to see go to pieces
when it can be prevented. That is why I signalled you to keep the talk off the company and
his work. One of the best lawyers I ever knew, a real genius, went to pieces that same way.
He was on a big, almost an impossible, case. He couldn't think of anything else, didn't eat
or sleep much for months. He won the case, but it broke him. But he wasn't in love with a big,
red-headed beauty of a girl, and so didn't have her to fiddle him to sleep.

"Well, I'll go get the blanket," he concluded, with a sudden change in his tone.

In a few moments he returned and they went into the living-room together. Seaton lay in exactly
the same position, only the regular lifting of his powerful chest showing that he was alive.

"I think we had better...."

"Sh ... sh," interrupted the girl in an intense whisper. "You'll wake him up, Daddy."

"Bosh! You couldn't wake him up with a club. His own name might rouse him, particularly if
you said it; no other ordinary sound would. I started to say that I think we had better put
him to bed on the davenport. He would be more comfortable."

"But that would surely wake him. And he's so big...."

"Oh, no, it wouldn't, unless I drop him on the floor. And he doesn't weigh much over two hundred,
does he?"

"About ten or eleven pounds."

"Even though I am a lawyer, and old and decrepit, I can still handle that much."

With Dorothy anxiously watching the proceeding and trying to help, Vaneman picked Seaton up
out of the chair, with some effort, and carried him across the room. The sleeping man muttered
as if in protest at being disturbed, but made no other sign of consciousness. The lawyer then
calmly removed Seaton's shoes and collar, while the girl arranged pillows under his head and
tucked the blanket around him. Vaneman bent a quizzical glance upon his daughter, under which
a flaming blush spread from her throat to her hair.

"Well," she said, defiantly, "I'm going to, anyway."

"My dear, of course you are. If you didn't, I would disown you."

As her father turned away, Dorothy knelt beside her lover and pressed her lips tightly to his.

"Good night, sweetheart," she murmured.

"'Night," he muttered in his sleep, as his lips responded faintly to her caress.

Vaneman waited for his daughter, and when she appeared, the blush again suffusing her face,
he put his arm around her.

"Dorothy," he said at the door of her room, using her full name, a very unusual thing for him,
"the father of such a girl as you are hates to lose her, but I advise you to stick to that
boy. Believe in him and trust him, no matter what happens. He is a real man."

"I know it, Dad ... thank you. I had a touch of the blues today, but I never will again. I
think more of his little finger than I do of all the other men I ever knew, put together. But
how do you know him so well? I know him, of course, but that's different."

"I have various ways of getting information. I know Dick Seaton better than you do--better
than he knows himself. I have known all about every man who ever looked at you twice. I have
been afraid once or twice that I would have to take a hand, but you saw them right, just as
you see Seaton right. For some time I have been afraid of the thought of your marrying, the
young men in your social set are such a hopeless lot, but I am not any more. When I hand my
little girl over to her husband next October I can be really happy with you, instead of anxious
for you. That's how well I know Richard Seaton.... Well, good night, daughter mine."

"Good night, Daddy dear," she replied, throwing her arms around his neck. "I have the finest
Dad a girl ever had, and the finest ... boy. Good night."

       *       *       *       *       *

It was three o'clock the following afternoon when Seaton appeared in the laboratory. His long
rest had removed all the signs of overwork and he was his alert, vigorous self, but when Crane
saw him and called out a cheery greeting he returned it with a sheepish smile.

"Don't say anything, Martin--I'm thinking it all, and then some. I made a regular fool of myself
last night. Went to sleep in a chair and slept seventeen hours without a break. I never felt
so cheap in my life."

"You were worn out, Dick, and you know it. That sleep put you on your feet again, and I hope
you will have sense enough to take care of yourself after this. I warn you now, Dick, that
if you start any more of that midnight work I will simply call Dorothy over here and have her
take charge of you."

"That's it, Mart, rub it in. Don't you see that I am flat on my back, with all four paws in
the air? But I'm going to sleep every night. I promised Dottie to go to bed not later than
twelve, if I have to quit right in the middle of an idea, and I told her that I was coming
out to see her every other evening and every Sunday. But here's the dope. I've got that missing
factor in my theory--got it while I was eating breakfast this afternoon."

"If you had eaten and slept regularly here and kept yourself fit you would have seen it before."

"Yes, I guess that's right, too. If I miss a meal or a sleep from now on I want you to sand-bag
me. But never mind that. Here's the explanation. We doped out before, you know, that the force
is something like magnetism, and is generated when the coil causes the electrons of this specially-treated
copper to vibrate in parallel planes. The knotty point was what could be the effect of a weak
electric current in liberating the power. I've got it! It shifts the plane of vibration of
the electrons!"

"It is impossible to shift that plane, Dick. It is fixed by physical state, just as speed is
fixed by temperature."

"No, it isn't. That is, it usually is, but in this case it may be shifted. Here's the mathematical
proof."

So saying, Seaton went over to the drafting table, tacked down a huge sheet of paper, and sketched
rapidly, explaining as he drew. Soon the two men were engaged in a profound mathematical argument.
Sheet after sheet of paper was filled with equations and calculations, and the table was covered
with reference books. After two hours of intense study and hot discussion Crane's face took
on a look of dawning comprehension, which changed to amazement and then to joy. For the first
time in Seaton's long acquaintance with him, his habitual calm was broken.

"By George!" he cried, shaking Seaton's hand in both of his. "I think you have it! But how
under the sun did you get the idea? That calculus isn't in any of the books. Where did you
get it? Dick, you're a wonder!"

"I don't know how I got the idea, it merely came to me. But that Math is right--it's got to
be right, no other conclusion is possible. Now, if that calc. is right, and I know it is, do
you see how narrow the permissible limits of shifting are? Look at equation 236. Believe me,
I sure was lucky, that day in the Bureau. It's a wonder I didn't blow up the whole works. Suppose
I hadn't been working with a storage cell that gave only four amperes at two volts? That's
unusually low, you know, for that kind of work."

       *       *       *       *       *

Crane carefully studied the equation referred to and figured for a moment.

"In that case the limit would be exactly eight watts. Anything above that means instant decomposition?"

"Yes."

Crane whistled, a long, low whistle.

"And that bath weighed forty pounds--enough to vaporize the whole planet. Dick, it cannot be
possible."

"It doesn't seem that way, but it is. It certainly makes me turn cold all over, though, to
think of what might have happened. You know now why I wouldn't touch the solution again until
I had this stuff worked out?"

"I certainly do. You should be even more afraid of it now. I don't mind nitroglycerin or T.N.T.,
but anything like that is merely a child's plaything compared to this. Perhaps we had better
drop it?"

"Not in seven thousand years. The mere fact that I was so lucky at first proves that Fate intended
this thing to be my oyster. However, I'll not tempt the old lady any farther. I'm going to
start with one millionth of a volt, and will use a piece of copper visible only under a microscope.
But there's absolutely no danger, now that we know what it is. I can make it eat out of my
hand. Look at this equation here, though. That being true, it looks as though you could get
the same explosive effect by taking a piece of copper which had once been partially decomposed
and subjecting it to some force, say an extremely heavy current. Again under the influence
of the coil, a small current would explode it, wouldn't it?"

"It looks that way, from those figures."

"Say, wouldn't that make some bullet? Unstabilize a piece of copper in that way and put it
inside a rifle bullet, arranged to make a short circuit on impact. By making the piece of copper
barely visible you could have the explosive effect of only a few sticks of dynamite--a piece
the size of a pea would obliterate New York City. But that's a long way from our flying-machine."

"Perhaps not so far as you think. When we explore new worlds it might be a good idea to have
a liberal supply of such ammunition, of various weights, for emergencies."

"It might, at that. Here's another point in equation 249. Suppose the unstabilized copper were
treated with a very weak current, not strong enough to explode it? A sort of borderline condition?
The energy would be liberated, apparently, but in an entirely new way. Wonder what would happen?
I can't see from the theory--have to work it out. And here's another somewhat similar condition,
right here, that will need investigating. I've sure got a lot of experimental work ahead of
me before I'll know anything. How're things going with you?"

"I have the drawings and blue-prints of the ship itself done, and working sketches of the commercial
power-plant. I am working now on the details, such as navigating instruments, food, water,
and air supplies, special motors, and all of the hundred and one little things that must be
taken into consideration. Then, as soon as you get the power under control, we will have only
to sketch in the details of the power-plant and its supports before we can begin construction."

"Fine, Mart, that's great. Well, let's get busy!"

CHAPTER IV

Steel Liberates Energy--Unexpectedly

DuQuesne was in his laboratory, poring over an abstruse article in a foreign journal of science,
when Scott came breezily in with a newspaper in his hand, across the front page of which stretched
great headlines.

"Hello, Blackie!" he called. "Come down to earth and listen to this tale of mystery from that
world-renowned fount of exactitude and authority, the Washington Clarion. Some miscreant has
piled up and touched off a few thousand tons of T.N.T. and picric acid up in the hills. Read
about it, it's good."

DuQuesne read:

     MYSTERIOUS EXPLOSION!

     MOUNTAIN VILLAGE WIPED OUT OF EXISTENCE!
     TWO HUNDRED DEAD, NONE INJURED!

     FORCE FELT ALL OVER WORLD. CAUSE UNKNOWN.
     SCIENTISTS BAFFLED.

     HARPER'S FERRY. March 26.--At 10: 23 A.M. today, the village of
     Bankerville, about thirty miles north of this place, was totally
     destroyed by an explosion of such terrific violence that
     seismographs all over the world recorded the shock, and that
     windows were shattered even in this city. A thick pall of dust and
     smoke was observed in the sky and parties set out immediately. They
     found, instead of the little mountain village, nothing except an
     immense, crater-like hole in the ground, some two miles in diameter
     and variously estimated at from two to three thousand feet deep. No
     survivors have been found, no bodies have been recovered. The
     entire village, with its two hundred inhabitants, has been wiped
     out of existence. Not so much as a splinter of wood or a fragment
     of brick from any of the houses can be found. Scientists are unable
     to account for the terrific force of the explosion, which far
     exceeded that of the most violent explosive known.

"Hm ... m. That sounds reasonable, doesn't it?" asked DuQuesne, sarcastically, as he finished
reading.

"It sure does," replied Scott, grinning. "What'd'you suppose it was? Think the reporter heard
a tire blow out on Pennsylvania Avenue?"

"Perhaps. Nothing to it, anyway," as he turned back to his work.

As soon as the visitor had gone a sneering smile spread over DuQuesne's face and he picked
up his telephone.

"The fool did it. That will cure him of sucking eggs!" he muttered. "Operator? DuQuesne speaking.
I am expecting a call this afternoon. Please ask him to call me at my house.... Thank you."

"Fred," he called to his helper, "if anyone wants me, tell them that I have gone home."

He left the building and stepped into his car. In less than half an hour he arrived at his
house on Park Road, overlooking beautiful Rock Creek Park. Here he lived alone save for an
old colored couple who were his servants.

In the busiest part of the afternoon Chambers rushed unannounced into Brookings' private office.
His face was white as chalk.

"Read that, Mr. Brookings!" he gasped, thrusting the Clarion extra into his hand.

Brookings read the news of the explosion, then looked at his chief chemist, his face turning gray.

"Yes, sir, that was our laboratory," said Chambers, dully.

"The fool! Didn't you tell him to work with small quantities?"

"I did. He said not to worry, that he was taking no chances, that he would never have more
than a gram of copper on hand at once in the whole laboratory."

"Well ... I'll ... be ... damned!" Slowly turning to the telephone, Brookings called a number
and asked for Doctor DuQuesne, then called another.

"Brookings speaking. I would like to see you this afternoon. Will you be at home?... I'll be
there in about an hour. Good bye."

       *       *       *       *       *

When Brookings arrived he was shown into DuQuesne's study. The two men shook hands perfunctorily
and sat down, the scientist waiting for the other to speak.

"Well, DuQuesne, you were right. Our man couldn't handle it. But of course you didn't mean
the terms you mentioned before?"

DuQuesne's lips smiled; a hard, cold smile.

"You know what I said, Brookings. Those terms are now doubled, twenty thousand and ten million.
Nothing else goes."

"I expected it, since you never back down. The Corporation expects to pay for its mistakes.
We accept your terms and I have contracts here for your services as research director, at a
salary of two hundred and forty thousand dollars per annum, with the bonus and royalties you
demand."

DuQuesne glanced over the documents and thrust them into his pocket.

"I'll go over these with my attorney to-night, and mail one back to you if he approves the
contract. In the meantime, we may as well get down to business."

"What would you suggest?" asked Brookings.

"You people stole the solution, I see...."

"Don't use such harsh language, Doctor, it's...."

"Why not? I'm for direct action, first, last and all the time. This thing is too important
to permit of mincing words or actions, it's a waste of time. Have you the solution here?"

"Yes, here it is," drawing the bottle from his pocket.

"Where's the rest of it?" asked DuQuesne as he noted the size of the bottle.

"All that we found is here, except about a teaspoonful which the expert had to work on," replied
Brookings. "We didn't get it all, only half of it. The rest of it was diluted with water, so
that it wouldn't be missed. After we get started, if you find it works out satisfactorily,
we can procure the rest of it. That will certainly cause a disturbance, but it may be necessary...."

"Half of it!" interrupted DuQuesne. "You haven't one-twentieth of it here. When I saw it in
the Bureau, Seaton had about five hundred milliliters--over a pint--of it. I wonder if you're
double-crossing me again?"

"No, you're not," he continued, paying no attention to the other's protestations of innocence.
"You're paying me too much to want to block me now. The crook you sent out to get the stuff
turned in only this much. Do you suppose he is holding out on us?"

"No. You know Perkins and his methods."

"He missed the main bottle, then. That's where your methods make me tired. When I want anything
done, I believe in doing it myself, then I know it's done right. As to what I suggest, that's
easy. I will take three or four of Perkins' gunmen tonight. We'll go out there and raid the
place. We'll shoot Seaton and anybody else who gets in the way. We'll dynamite the safe and
take their solution, plans, notes, money, and anything else we want."

"No, no, Doctor, that's too crude altogether. If we have to do that, let it be only as a last
resort."

"I say do it first, then we know we will get results. I tell you I'm afraid of pussyfooting
and gumshoeing around Seaton and Crane. I used to think that Seaton was easy, but he seems
to have developed greatly in the last few weeks, and Crane never was anybody's fool. Together
they make a combination hard to beat. Brute force, applied without warning, is our best bet,
and there's no danger, you know that. We've got away clean with lots worse stuff."

"It's always dangerous, and we could wink at such tactics only after everything else has failed.
Why not work it out from this solution we have, and then quietly get the rest of it? After
we have it worked out, Seaton might get into an accident on his motorcycle, and we could prove
by the state of development of our plans that we discovered it long ago."

"Because developing the stuff is highly dangerous, as you have found out. Even Seaton wouldn't
have been alive now if he hadn't had a lot of luck at the start. Then, too, it would take too
much time. Seaton has already developed it--you see, I haven't been asleep and I know what
he has done, just as well as you do--and why should we go through all that slow and dangerous
experimental work when we can get their notes and plans as well as not? There is bound to be
trouble anyway when we steal all their solution, even though they haven't missed this little
bit of it yet, and it might as well come now as any other time. The Corporation is amply protected,
and I am still a Government chemist. Nobody even suspects that I am in on this deal. I will
never see you except after hours and in private, and will never come near your offices. We
will be so cautious that, even if anyone should get suspicious, they can't possibly link us
together, and until they do link us together, we are all safe. No, Brookings, a raid in force
is the only sure and safe way. What is more natural than a burglary of a rich man's house?
It will be a simple affair. The police will stir around for a few days, then it will all be
forgotten and we can go ahead. Nobody will suspect anything except Crane, if he is alive, and
he won't be able to do anything."

So the argument raged. Brookings was convinced that DuQuesne was right in wanting to get possession
of all the solution, and also of the working notes and plans, but would not agree to the means
suggested, holding out for quieter and more devious, but less actionable methods. Finally he
ended the argument with a flat refusal to countenance the raid, and the scientist was forced
to yield, although he declared that they would have to use his methods in the end, and that
it would save time, money, and perhaps lives, if they were used first. Brookings then took
from his pocket his wireless and called Perkins. He told him of the larger bottle of solution,
instructing him to secure it and to bring back all plans, notes, and other material he could
find which in any way pertained to the matter in hand. Then, after promising DuQuesne to keep
him informed of developments, and giving him an instrument similar to the one he himself carried,
Brookings took his leave.

       *       *       *       *       *

Seaton had worked from early morning until late at night, but had rigorously kept his promise
to Dorothy. He had slept seven or eight hours every night and had called upon her regularly,
returning from the visits with ever-keener zest for his work.

Late in the afternoon, upon the day of the explosion, Seaton stepped into Crane's shop with
a mass of notes in his hand.

"Well, Mart, I've got it--some of it, at least. The power is just what we figured it, so immensely
large as to be beyond belief. I have found:

"First: That it is a practically irresistible pull along the axis of the treated wire or bar.
It is apparently focused at infinity, as near-by objects are not affected.

"Second: I have studied two of the border-line regions of current we discussed. I have found
that in one the power is liberated as a similar attractive force but is focused upon the first
object in line with the axis of the bar. As long as the current is applied it remains focused
upon that object, no matter what comes between. In the second border-line condition the power
is liberated as a terrific repulsion.

"Third: That the copper is completely transformed into available energy, there being no heat
whatever liberated.

"Fourth: Most important of all, that the X acts only as a catalyst for the copper and is not
itself consumed, so that an infinitesimally thin coating is all that is required."

"You certainly have found out a great deal about it," replied Crane, who had been listening
with the closest attention, a look of admiration upon his face. "You have all the essential
facts right there. Now we can go ahead and put in the details which will finish up the plans
completely. Also, one of those points solves my hardest problem, that of getting back to the
earth after we lose sight of it. We can make a small bar in that border-line condition and
focus it upon the earth, and we can use that repulsive property to ward off any meteorites
which may come too close to us."

"That's right. I never thought of using those points for anything. I found them out incidentally,
and merely mentioned them as interesting facts. I have a model of the main bar built, though,
that will lift me into the air and pull me all around. Want to see it work?"

"I certainly do."

As they were going out to the landing field Shiro called to them and they turned back to the
house, learning that Dorothy and her father had just arrived.

"Hello, boys!" Dorothy said, bestowing her radiant smile upon them both as Seaton seized her
hand. "Dad and I came out to see that you were taking care of yourselves, and to see what you
are doing. Are visitors allowed?"

"No," replied Seaton promptly. "All visitors are barred. Members of the firm and members of
the family, however, are not classed as visitors."

"You came at the right time," said Crane, smiling. "Dick has just finished a model, and was
about to demonstrate it to me when you arrived. Come with us and watch the...."

"I object," interrupted Seaton. "It is a highly undignified performance as yet, and...."

"Objection overruled," interposed the lawyer, decisively. "You are too young and impetuous
to have any dignity; therefore, any performance not undignified would be impossible, a priori.
The demonstration will proceed."

       *       *       *       *       *

Laughing merrily, the four made their way to the testing shed, in front of which Seaton donned
a heavy leather harness, buckled about his shoulders, body and legs; to which were attached
numerous handles, switches, boxes and other pieces of apparatus. He snapped the switch which
started the Tesla coil in the shed and pressed a button on an instrument in his hand, attached
to his harness by a small steel cable. Instantly there was a creak of straining leather and
he shot vertically into the air for perhaps a hundred feet, where he stopped and remained motionless
for a few moments. Then the watchers saw him point his arm and dart in the direction in which
he pointed. By merely pointing, apparently, he changed his direction at will; going up and
down, forward and backward, describing circles and loops and figures of eight. After a few
minutes of this display he descended, slowing up abruptly as he neared the ground and making
an easy landing.

"There, oh beauteous lady and esteemed sirs," he began, with a low bow and a sweeping flourish--when
there was a snap, and he was jerked sidewise off his feet. In bowing, his cumbersome harness
had pressed the controlling switch and the instrument he held in his hand, which contained
the power-plant, or bar, had torn itself loose from its buckle. Instead of being within easy
reach of his hand it was over six feet away, and was dragging him helplessly after it, straight
toward the high stone wall! But only momentarily was he helpless, his keen mind discovering
a way out of the predicament even as he managed to scramble to his feet in spite of the rapid
pace. Throwing his body sidewise and reaching out his long arm as far as possible toward the
bar, he succeeded in swinging it around so that he was running back toward the party and the
spacious landing field. Dorothy and her father were standing motionless, staring at Seaton;
the former with terror in her eyes, the latter in blank amazement. Crane had darted to the
switch controlling the coil, and was reaching for it when Seaton passed them.

"Don't touch that switch!" he yelled. "I'll catch that thing yet!"

At this evidence that Seaton still thought himself master of the situation, Crane began to
laugh, though he still kept his hand near the controlling switch. Dorothy, relieved of her
fear for her lover's safety, could not help but join him, so ludicrous were Seaton's antics.
The bar was straight out in front of him, about five feet above the ground, going somewhat
faster than a man could run. It turned now to the right, now to the left, as his weight was
thrown to one side or the other. Seaton, dragged along like a small boy trying to hold a runaway
calf by the tail, was covering the ground in prodigious leaps and bounds; at the same time
pulling himself up, hand over hand, to the bar in front of him. He soon reached it, seized
it in both hands, again darted into the air, and descended lightly near the others, who were
rocking with laughter.

"I said it would be undignified," chuckled Seaton, rather short of breath, "but I didn't know
just how much so it was going to be."

Dorothy tucked her fingers into his hand.

"Are you hurt anywhere, Dick?"

"Not a bit. He led me a great chase, though."

"I was scared to death until you told Martin to let the switch alone. But it was funny then!
I hadn't noticed your resemblance to a jumping-jack before. Won't you do it again sometime
and let us take a movie of it?"

"That was as good as any show in town, Dick," said the lawyer, wiping his eyes, "but you must
be more careful. Next time, it might not be funny at all."

"There will be no next time for this rig," replied Seaton. "This is merely to show us that
our ideas are all right. The next trip will be in a full-scale, completely-equipped boat."

"It was perfectly wonderful," declared Dorothy. "I know this first flight of yours will be
a turning-point or something in history. I don't pretend to understand how you did it--the
sight of you standing still up there in the air made me wonder if I really were awake, even
though I knew what to expect--but we wouldn't have missed it for worlds, would we, Dad?"

"No. I am very glad that we saw the first demonstration. The world has never before seen anything
like it, and you two men will rank as two of the greatest discoverers."

"Seaton will, you mean," replied Crane, uncomfortably. "You know I didn't have anything to
do with it."

"It's nearly all yours," denied Seaton. "Without your ideas I would have lost myself in space
in my first attempt."

"You are both wrong," said Vaneman. "You, Martin, haven't enough imagination; and you, Dick,
have altogether too much, for either of you to have done this alone. The honor will be divided
equally between you."

       *       *       *       *       *

He turned to Crane as Dorothy and Seaton set out toward the house.

"What are you going to do with it, commercially? Dick, of course, hasn't thought of anything
except this space-car--equally of course, you have?"

"Yes. Knowing the general nature of the power and confident that Dick would control it, I have
already drawn up sketches for a power-plant installation of five hundred thousand electrical
horsepower, which will enable us to sell power for less than one-tenth of a cent per kilowatt-hour
and still return twenty percent annual dividends. However, the power-plant comes after the flyer."

"Why? Why not build the power-plant first, and take the pleasure trip afterward?"

"There are several reasons. The principal one is that Dick and I would rather be off exploring
new worlds, while the other members of the Seaton-Crane Company, Engineers, build the power-plant."

During the talk the men had reached the house, into which the others had disappeared some time
before. Upon Crane's invitation, Vaneman and his daughter stayed to dinner, and Dorothy played
for awhile upon Crane's wonderful violin. The rest of the evening was spent in animated discussion
of the realization of Seaton's dreams of flying without wings and beyond the supporting atmosphere.
Seaton and Crane did their best to explain to the non-technical visitors how such flight was
possible.

"Well, I am beginning to understand it a little," said Dorothy finally. "In plain language,
it is like a big magnet or something, but different. Is that it?"

"That's it exactly," Seaton assured her.

"What are you going to call it? It isn't like anything else that ever was. Already this evening
you have called it a bus, a boat, a kite, a star-hound, a wagon, an aerial flivver, a sky-chariot,
a space-eating wampus, and I don't know what else. Even Martin has called it a vehicle, a ship,
a bird, and a shell. What is its real name?"

"I don't know. It hasn't got any that I know of. What would you suggest, Dottie?"

"I don't know what general name should be applied to them, but for this one there is only one
possible name, 'The Skylark.'"

"Exactly right, Dorothy," said Crane.

"Fine!" cried Seaton. "And you shall christen it, Dottie, with a big Florence flask full of
absolute vacuum. 'I christen you "The Skylark." BANG!'"

As the guests were leaving, at a late hour, Vaneman said:

"Oh, yes. I bought an extra Clarion as we came out. It tells a wild tale of an explosion so
violent that science cannot explain it. I don't suppose it is true, but it may make interesting
reading for you two scientific sharps. Good night."

Seaton accompanied Dorothy to the car, bidding her a more intimate farewell on the way. When
he returned, Crane, with an unusual expression of concern on his face, handed him the paper
without a word.

       *       *       *       *       *

"What's up, old man? Something in it?" he asked, as he took the paper. He fell silent as he
read the first words, and after he had read the entire article he said slowly:

"True, beyond a doubt. Even a Clarion reporter couldn't imagine that. It's all intra-atomic
energy, all right--some poor devil trying our stunt without my horseshoe in his pocket."

"Think, Dick! Something is wrong somewhere. You know that two people did not discover X at
the same time. The answer is that somebody stole your idea, but the idea is worthless without
the X. You say that the stuff is extremely rare--where did they get it?"

"That's right, Mart. I never thought of that. The stuff is extremely rare. I am supposed to
know something about rare metals, and I never heard of it before--there isn't even a gap in
the Periodic System in which it belongs. I would bet a hat that we have every milligram known
to the world at present."

"Well, then," said the practical Crane. "We had better see whether or not we have all we started
with."

Asking Shiro to bring the large bottle from the vault, he opened the living-room safe and brought
forth the small vial. The large bottle was still nearly full, the seal upon it unbroken. The
vial was apparently exactly as Seaton had left it after he had made his bars.

"Our stuff seems to be all there," said Crane. "It looks as though someone else has discovered
it also."

"I don't believe it," said Seaton, their positions now reversed. "It's altogether too rare."

He scanned both bottles narrowly.

"I can tell by taking the densities," he added, and ran up to the laboratory, returning with
a Westphal balance in his hand. After testing both solutions he said slowly:

"Well, the mystery is solved. The large bottle has a specific gravity of 1.80, as it had when
I prepared it; that in the vial reads only 1.41. Somebody has burglarized this safe and taken
almost half of the solution, filling the vial up with colored water. The stuff is so strong
that I probably never would have noticed the difference."

"But who could it have been?"

"Search me! But it's nothing to worry about now, anyway, because whoever it was is gone where
he'll never do it again. He's taken the solution with him, too, so that nobody else can get it."

"I wish I were sure of that, Dick. The man who tried to do the research work is undoubtedly
gone--but who is back of him?"

"Nobody, probably. Who would want to be?"

"To borrow your own phrase, Dick, Scott 'chirped it' when he called you 'Nobody Holme.' For
a man with your brains you have the least sense of anybody I know. You know that this thing
is worth, as a power project alone, thousands of millions of dollars, and that there are dozens
of big concerns who would cheerfully put us both out of the way for a thousandth of that amount.
The question is not to find one concern who might be backing a thing like that, but to pick
out the one who is backing it."

       *       *       *       *       *

After thinking deeply for a few moments he went on:

"The idea was taken from your demonstration in the Bureau, either by an eye-witness or by someone
who heard about it afterward, probably the former. Even though it failed, one man saw the possibilities.
Who was that man? Who was there?"

"Oh, a lot of the fellows were there. Scott, Smith, Penfield, DuQuesne, Roberts--quite a bunch
of them. Let's see--Scott hasn't brains enough to do anything. Smith doesn't know anything
about anything except amines. Penfield is a pure scientist, who wouldn't even quote an authority
without asking permission. DuQuesne is ... hm-m ... DuQuesne ... he ... I...."

"Yes. DuQuesne. I have heard of him. He's the big black fellow, about your own size? He has
the brains, the ability, and the inclination, has he not?"

"Well, I wouldn't want to say that. I don't know him very well, and personal dislike is no
ground at all for suspicion, you know."

"Enough to warrant investigation. Is there anyone else who might have reasoned it out as you
did, and as DuQuesne possibly could?"

"Not that I remember. But we can count DuQuesne out, anyway, because he called me up this afternoon
about some notes on gallium; so he is still in the Bureau. Besides, he wouldn't let anybody
else investigate it if he got it. He would do it himself, and I don't think he would have blown
himself up. I never did like him very well personally--he's such a cold, inhuman son of a fish--but
you've got to hand it to him for ability. He's probably the best man in the world today on
that kind of thing."

"No, I do not think that we will count him out yet. He may have had nothing to do with it,
but we will have him investigated nevertheless, and will guard against future visitors here."

Turning to the telephone, he called the private number of a well-known detective.

"Prescott? Crane speaking. Sorry to get you out of bed, but I should like to have a complete
report upon Dr. Marc C. DuQuesne, of the Rare Metals Laboratory, as soon as possible. Every
detail for the last two weeks, every move and every thought if possible. Please keep a good
man on him until further notice.... I wish you would send two or three guards out here right
away, to-night; men you can trust and who will stay awake.... Thanks. Good night."

CHAPTER V

Direct Action

Seaton and Crane spent some time developing the object-compass. Crane made a number of these
instruments, mounted in gymbals, so that the delicate needles were free to turn in any direction
whatever. They were mounted upon jeweled bearings, but bearings made of such great strength,
that Seaton protested.

"What's the use, Mart? You don't expect a watch to be treated like a stone-crusher. That needle
weighs less than half a gram. Why mount it as though it weighed twenty pounds?"

"To be safe. Remember the acceleration the Lark will be capable of, and also that on some other
worlds, which we hope to visit, this needle will weigh more than it does here."

"That's right, Mart, I never thought of that. Anyway, we can't be too safe to suit me."

When the compasses were done and the power through them had been adjusted to one-thousandth
of a watt, the lowest they could maintain with accuracy, they focused each instrument upon
one of a set of most carefully weighed glass beads, ranging in size from a pin-head up to a
large marble, and had the beads taken across the country by Shiro, in order to test the sensitiveness
and accuracy of the new instruments. The first test was made at a distance of one hundred miles,
the last at nearly three thousand. They found, as they had expected, that from the weight of
the object and the time it took the needle to come to rest after being displaced from its line
by a gentle tap of the finger, they could easily calculate the distance from the compass to
the object. This fact pleased Crane immensely, as it gave him a sure means of navigation in
space. The only objection to its use in measuring earthly distances was its extreme delicacy,
the needle focused upon the smallest bead in the lot at a distance of three thousand miles
coming to rest in little more than one second.

The question of navigation solved, the two next devoted themselves to perfecting the "X-plosive
bullet," as Seaton called it. From his notes and equations Seaton calculated the weight of
copper necessary to exert the explosive force of one pound of nitro-glycerin, and weighed out,
on the most delicate assay-balance made, various fractions and multiples of this amount of
the treated copper, while Crane fitted up the bullets of automatic-pistol cartridges to receive
the charges and to explode them on impact.

They placed their blueprints and working notes in the safe, as usual, taking with them only
those notes dealing with the object-compass and the X-plosive bullet, upon which they were
still working. No one except Shiro knew that the original tracings, from which the blue-prints
had been made, and their final, classified notes were always kept in the vault. They cautioned
him and the three guards to keep a close watch until they returned. Then they set out in the
biplane, to try out the new weapon in a lonely place where the exploding shells could do no damage.

       *       *       *       *       *

They found that the X-plosive came fully up to expectations. The smallest charge they had prepared,
fired by Crane at a great stump a full hundred yards away from the bare, flat-topped knoll
that had afforded them a landing-place, tore it bodily from the ground and reduced it to splinters,
while the force of the explosion made the two men stagger.

"She sure is big medicine!" laughed Seaton. "Wonder what a real one will do?" and drawing his
pistol, he inserted a cartridge carrying a much heavier charge.

"Better be careful with the big ones," cautioned Crane. "What are you going to shoot at?"

"That rock over there," pointing to a huge boulder half a mile away across the small valley.
"Want to bet me a dinner I can't hit it?"

"No. You forget that I saw you win the pistol trophy of the District."

The pistol cracked, and when the bullet reached its destination the great stone was obliterated
in a vast ball of flame. After a moment there was a deafening report--a crash as though the
world were falling to pieces. Both men were hurled violently backward, stumbling and falling
flat. Picking themselves up, they looked across the valley at the place where the boulder had
stood, to see only an immense cloud of dust, which slowly blew away, revealing a huge hole
in the ground. They were silent a moment, awed by the frightful power they had loosed.

"Well, Mart," Seaton broke the silence, "I'll say those one-milligram loads are plenty big
enough. If that'd been something coming after us--whether any possible other-world animal,
a foreign battleship, or the mythical great sea-serpent himself, it'd be a good Indian now.
Yes? No?"

"Yes. When we use the heavier charges we must use long-range rifles. Have you had enough demonstration
or do you want to shoot some more?"

"I've had enough, thanks. That last rock I bounced off of was no pillow, I'll tell the world.
Besides, it looks as though I'd busted a leg or two off of our noble steed with my shot, and
we may have to walk back home."

An examination of the plane, which had been moved many feet and almost overturned by the force
of the explosion, revealed no damage that they could not repair on the spot, and dusk saw them
speeding through the air toward the distant city.

In response to a summons from his chief, Perkins silently appeared in Brookings' office, without
his usual complacent smile.

"Haven't you done anything yet, after all this time?" demanded the magnate. "We're getting
tired of this delay."

"I can't help it, Mr. Brookings," replied the subordinate. "They've got detectives from Prescott's
all over the place. Our best men have been trying ever since the day of the explosion, but
can't do a thing without resorting to violence. I went out there myself and looked them over,
without being seen. There isn't a man there with a record, and I haven't been able so far to
get anything on any one of them that we can use as a handle."

"No, Prescott's men are hard to do anything with. But can't you...?" Brookings paused significantly.

"I was coming to that. I thought one of them might be seen, and I talked to him a little, over
the phone, but I couldn't talk loud enough without consulting you. I mentioned ten, but he
held out for twenty-five. Said he wouldn't consider it at all, but he wants to quit Prescott
and go into business for himself."

"Go ahead on twenty-five. We want to get action," said Brookings, as he wrote an order on the
cashier for twenty-five thousand dollars in small-to-medium bills. "That is cheap enough, considering
what DuQuesne's rough stuff would probably cost. Report tomorrow about four, over our private
phone--no, I'll come down to the café, it's safer."

       *       *       *       *       *

The place referred to was the Perkins Café, a high-class restaurant on Pennsylvania Avenue,
heavily patronized by the diplomatic, political, financial, and sporting circles of upper-class
Washington. It was famous for its discreet waiters, and for the absolutely private rooms. Many
of its patrons knew of its unique telephone service, in which each call went through such a
devious system of relays that any attempt to trace it was hopeless; they knew that while "The
Perkins" would not knowingly lend itself to any violation of law, it was an entirely safe and
thoroughly satisfactory place in which to conduct business of the most secret and confidential
character; a place from which one could enjoy personal conversation with persons to whom he
wished to remain invisible and untraceable: a place which had never been known to "leak." For
these reasons it was really the diplomatic and political center of the country, and over its
secret wires had gone, in guarded language, messages that would have rocked the world had they
gone astray. It was recognized that the place was occasionally, by its very nature, used for
illegal purposes, but it was such a political, financial, and diplomatic necessity that it
carried a "Hands Off" sign. It was never investigated by Congress and never raided by the police.
Hundreds of telephone calls were handled daily. A man would come in, order something served
in a private room, leave a name at the desk, and say that he was expecting a call. There the
affair ended. The telephone operators were hand-picked, men of very short memories, carefully
trained never to look at a face and never to remember a name or a number. Although the precaution
was unnecessary, this shortness of memory was often encouraged by bills of various denominations.

No one except Perkins and the heads of the great World Steel Corporation knew that the urbane
and polished proprietor of the café was a criminal of the blackest kind, whose liberty and
life itself were dependent upon the will of the Corporation; or that the restaurant was especially
planned and maintained as a blind for its underground activities; or that Perkins was holding
a position which suited him exactly and which he would not have given up for wealth or glory--that
of being the guiding genius who planned nefarious things for the men higher up, and saw to
it that they were carried out by the men lower down. He was in constant personal touch with
his superiors, but in order to avoid any chance of betrayal he never saw his subordinates personally.
Not only were they entirely ignorant of his identity, but all possible means of their tracing
him had been foreseen and guarded against. He called them on the telephone, but they never
called him. The only possible way in which any of his subordinates could get in touch with
him was by means of the wonderful wireless telephone already referred to, developed by a drug-crazed
genius who had died shortly after it was perfected. It was a tiny instrument, no larger than
a watch, but of practically unlimited range. The controlling central station of the few instruments
in existence, from which any instrument could be cut out, changed in tune, or totally destroyed
at will, was in Perkins' office safe. A man intrusted with an unusually important job would
receive from an unknown source an instrument, with directions sufficient for its use. As soon
as the job was done he would find, upon again attempting to use the telephone, that its interior
was so hopelessly wrecked that not even the most skilled artisan could reproduce what it had
once been.

       *       *       *       *       *

At four o'clock Brookings was ushered into the private office of the master criminal, who was
plainly ill at ease.

"I've got to report another failure, Mr. Brookings. It's nobody's fault, just one of those
things that couldn't be helped. I handled this myself. Our man left the door unlocked and kept
the others busy in another room. I had just started to work when Crane's Japanese servant,
who was supposed to be asleep, appeared upon the scene. If I hadn't known something about jiu-jutsu
myself, he'd have broken my neck. As it was, I barely got away, with the Jap and all three
guards close behind me...."

"I'm not interested in excuses," broke in the magnate, angrily. "We'll have to turn it over
to DuQuesne after all unless you get something done, and get it done quick. Can't you get to
that Jap some way?"

"Certainly I can. I never yet saw the man who couldn't be reached, one way or another. I've
had 'Silk' Humphreys, the best fixer in the business, working on him all day, and he'll be
neutral before night. If the long green won't quiet him--and I never saw a Jap refuse it yet--a
lead pipe will. Silk hasn't reported yet, but I expect to hear from him any minute now, through
our man out there."

As he spoke, the almost inaudible buzzer in his pocket gave a signal.

"There he is now," said Perkins, as he took out his wireless instrument. "You might listen
in and hear what he has to say."

Brookings took out his own telephone and held it to his ear.

"Hello," Perkins spoke gruffly into the tiny transmitter. "What've you got on your chest?"

"Your foot slipped on the Jap," the stranger replied. "He crabbed the game right. Slats and
the big fellow put all the stuff into the box, told us to watch it until they get back tonight--they
may be late--then went off in Slats' ship to test something--couldn't find out what. Silk tackled
the yellow boy, and went up to fifty grand, but the Jap couldn't see him at all. Silk started
to argue, and the Jap didn't do a thing but lay him out, cold. This afternoon, while the Jap
was out in the grounds, three stick-up men jumped him. He bumped one of them off with his hands
and the others with his gat--one of those big automatics that throw a slug like a cannon. None
of us knew he had it. That's all, except that I am quitting Prescott right now. Anything else
I can do for you, whoever you are?"

"No. Your job's done."

The conversation closed. Perkins pressed the switch which reduced the interior of the spy's
wireless instrument to a fused mass of metal, and Brookings called DuQuesne on the telephone.

"I would like to talk to you," he said. "Shall I come there or would you rather come to my office?"

"I'll come there. They're watching this house. They have one man in front and one in back,
a couple of detectaphones in my rooms here, and have coupled onto this telephone.

"Don't worry," he continued calmly as the other made an exclamation of dismay. "Talk ahead
as loud as you please--they can't hear you. Do you think that those poor, ignorant flat feet
can show me anything about electricity? I'd shoot a jolt along their wires that would burn
their ears off if it weren't my cue to act the innocent and absorbed scientist. As it is, their
instruments are all registering dense silence. I am deep in study right now, and can't be disturbed!"

"Can you get out?"

"Certainly. I have that same private entrance down beside the house wall and the same tunnel
I used before. I'll see you in about fifteen minutes."

       *       *       *       *       *

In Brookings' office, DuQuesne told of the constant surveillance over him.

"They suspect me on general principles, I think," he continued. "They are apparently trying
to connect me with somebody. I don't think they suspect you at all, and they won't unless they
get some better methods. I have devices fitted up to turn the lights off and on, raise and
lower the windows, and even cast shadows at certain times. The housekeeper knows that when
I go to my library after dinner, I have retired to study, and that it is as much as anyone's
life is worth to disturb me. Also, I am well known to be firmly fixed in my habits, so it's
easy to fool those detectives. Last night I went out and watched them. They hung around a couple
of hours after my lights went out, then walked off together. I can dodge them any time and
have all my nights free without their ever suspecting anything."

"Are you free tonight?"

"Yes. The time-switches are all set, and as long as I get back before daylight, so they can
see me get up and go to work, it will be all right."

Brookings told him briefly of the failures to secure the solution and the plans, of the death
of the three men sent to silence Shiro, and of all the other developments. DuQuesne listened,
his face impassive.

"Well," he said as Brookings ceased. "I thought you would bull it, but not quite so badly.
But there's no use whining now. I can't use my original plan of attack in force, as they are
prepared and might be able to stand us off until the police could arrive."

He thought deeply for a time, then said, intensely:

"If I go into this thing, Brookings, I am in absolute command. Everything goes as I say. Understand?"

"Yes. It's up to you, now."

"All right, I think I've got it. Can you get me a Curtiss biplane in an hour, and a man about
six feet tall who weighs about a hundred and sixty pounds? I want to drive the plane myself,
and have the man, dressed in full leathers and hood, in the passenger's seat, shot so full
of chloroform or dope that he will be completely unconscious for at least two hours."

"Easy. We can get you any kind of plane you want in an hour, and Perkins can find a man of
that description who would be glad to have a dream at that price. But what's the idea?... Pardon
me, I shouldn't have asked that," he added, as the saturnine chemist shot him a black look
from beneath his heavy brows.

Well, within the hour, DuQuesne drove up to a private aviation field and found awaiting him
a Curtiss biplane, whose attendant jumped into an automobile and sped away as he approached.
He quickly donned a heavy leather suit, similar to the one Seaton always wore in the air, and
drew the hood over his face. Then, after a searching look at the lean form of the unconscious
man in the other seat, he was off, the plane climbing swiftly under his expert hand. He took
a wide circle to the west and north.

Soon Shiro and the two guards, hearing the roar of an approaching airplane, looked out and
saw what they supposed to be Crane's biplane coming down with terrific speed in an almost vertical
nose-dive, as though the driver were in an extremity of haste. Flattening out just in time
to avert destruction it taxied up the field almost to the house. The watchers saw a man recognizable
as Seaton by his suit and his unmistakable physique stand up and wave both arms frantically,
heard him shout hoarsely "... all of you ... out here," saw him point to Crane's apparently
lifeless form and slump down in his seat. All three ran out to help the unconscious aviators,
but just as they reached the machine there were three silenced reports and the three men fell
to the ground. DuQuesne leaped lightly out of the machine and looked narrowly at the bodies
at his feet. He saw that the two detectives were dead, but found with some chagrin that the
Japanese still showed faint signs of life. He half drew his pistol to finish the job, but observing
that the victim was probably fatally wounded he thrust it back into its holster and went on
into the house. Drawing on rubber gloves he rapidly blew the door off the safe with nitro-glycerin
and took out everything it contained. He set aside a roll of blueprints, numerous notebooks,
some money and other valuables, and a small vial of solution--but of the larger bottle there
was no trace. He then ransacked the entire house, from cellar to attic, with no better success.
So cleverly was the entrance to the vault concealed in the basement wall that he failed to
discover it.

"I might have expected this of Crane," he thought, half aloud, "after all the warning that
fool Brookings persisted in giving him. This is the natural result of his nonsense. The rest
of the solution is probably in the safest safe-deposit vault in the United States. But I've
got their plans and notes, and enough solution for the present. I'll get the rest of it when
I want it--there's more than one way to kill any cat that ever lived!"

Returning to the machine, DuQuesne calmly stepped over the bodies of the detectives and the
unconscious form of the dying Japanese, who was uttering an occasional groan. He started the
engine and took his seat. There was an increasing roar as he opened the throttle, and soon
he descended upon the field from which he had set out. He noted that there was a man in an
automobile at some distance from the hangar, evidently waiting to take care of the plane and
his still unconscious passenger. Rapidly resuming his ordinary clothing, he stepped into his
automobile and was soon back in his own rooms, poring over the blueprints and notebooks.

       *       *       *       *       *

Seaton and Crane both felt that something was wrong when they approached the landing field
and saw that the landing-lights were not burning, as they always were kept lighted whenever
the plane was abroad after dark. By the dim light of the old moon Crane made a bumpy landing
and they sprang from their seats and hastened toward the house. As they neared it they heard
a faint moan and turned toward the sound, Seaton whipping out his electric torch with one hand
and his automatic pistol with the other. At the sight that met their eyes, however, he hastily
replaced the weapon and bent over Shiro, a touch assuring him that the other two were beyond
the reach of help. Silently they picked up the injured man and carried him gently into his
own room, barely glancing at the wrecked safe on the way. Seaton applied first-aid treatment
to the ghastly wound in Shiro's head, which both men supposed to be certainly fatal, while
Crane called a noted surgeon, asking him to come at once. He then telephoned the coroner, the
police, and finally Prescott, with whom he held a long conversation.

Having done all in their power for the unfortunate man, they stood at his bedside, their anger
all the more terrible for the fact that it was silent. Seaton stood with every muscle tense.
He was seething with rage, his face purple and his eyes almost emitting sparks, his teeth clenched
until the muscles of his jaws stood out in bands and lumps. His right hand, white-knuckled,
gripped the butt of his pistol, while under his left the brass rail of the bed slowly bent
under the intensity of his unconscious muscular effort. Crane stood still, apparently impassive,
but with his face perfectly white and with every feature stern and cold as though cut from
marble. Seaton was the first to speak.

"Mart," he gritted, his voice husky with fury, "a man who would leave another man alone to
die after giving him that, ain't a man--he's a thing. If Shiro dies and we can ever find out
who did it I'll shoot him with the biggest explosive charge I've got. No, I won't either, that'd
be too sudden. I'll take him apart with my bare hands."

"We will find him, Dick," Crane replied in a level, deadly voice entirely unlike his usual
tone. "That is one thing money can do. We will get him if money, influence, and detectives
can do it."

The tension was relieved by the arrival of the surgeon and his two nurses, who set to work
with the machine-like rapidity and precision of their highly-specialized craft. After a few
minutes, the work completed, the surgeon turned to the two men who had been watching him so
intently, with a smile upon his clean-shaven face.

"Merely a scalp wound, Mr. Crane," he stated. "He should recover consciousness in an hour or
so." Then, breaking in upon Seaton's exclamation, "It looks much worse than it really is. The
bullet glanced off the skull instead of penetrating it, stunning him by the force the blow.
There are no indications that the brain is affected in any way, and while the affected area
of the scalp is large, it is a clean wound and should heal rapidly. He will probably be up
and around in a couple of days, and by the time his hair grows again, he will not be able to
find a scar."

As he took his leave, the police and coroner arrived. After making a thorough investigation,
in which they learned what had been stolen and shrewdly deduced the manner in which the robbery
had been accomplished, they departed, taking with them the bodies. They were authorized by
Crane to offer a reward of one million dollars for information leading to the arrest and conviction
of the murderer. After everyone except the nurses had gone, Crane showed them the rooms they
were to occupy while caring for the wounded man. As the surgeon had foretold, Shiro soon recovered
consciousness. After telling his story he dropped into a deep sleep, and Seaton and Crane,
after another telephonic conference with Prescott, retired for the rest of the night.

CHAPTER VI

The Object-Compass at Work

Prescott, after a sleepless night, joined Seaton and Crane at breakfast.

"What do you make of it, Mr. Prescott?" asked Crane. "Seaton here thinks it was DuQuesne, possibly
acting for some foreign power, after our flying-machine to use in war. I think it was some
big industrial concern after our power-plant. What is your opinion?"

"I haven't any," replied the great detective after a moment. "Either guess may be true, although
I am almost positive that Dr. DuQuesne had nothing to do with it, either way. It was no ordinary
burglary, that is certain from Shiro's story. It was done by someone who had exact information
of your movements and habits. He chose a time when you were away, probably not so much from
fear of you as because it was only in your absence that he could succeed as he did in getting
all the guards out at once where he could handle them. He was a man with one accomplice or
who worked alone, and who was almost exactly Seaton's size and build. He was undoubtedly an
expert, as he blew the safe and searched the whole house without leaving a finger-print or
any other clue, however slight, that I can find--a thing I have never before seen done in all
my experience."

"His size should help in locating him," declared Crane. "While there are undoubtedly thousands
of men of Dick's six-feet-one and two-fifths, they are fairly well scattered, are they not?"

"Yes, they are, but his very size only makes it worse. I have gone over all the records I could,
in the short time I have had, and can't find an expert of that class with anywhere near that
description."

"How about the third guard, the one who escaped?" asked Seaton.

"He wasn't here. It was his afternoon off, you know, and he said that he wouldn't come back
into this job on a bet--that he wasn't afraid of anything ordinary, but he didn't like the
looks of things out here. That sounded fishy to me, and I fired him. He may have been the leak,
of course, though I have always found him reliable before. If he did leak, he must have got
a whale of a slice for it. He is under constant watch, and if we can ever get anything on him,
I will nail him to the cross. But that doesn't help get this affair straightened out. I haven't
given up, of course, there are lots of things not tried yet, but I must admit that temporarily,
at least, I am up a stump."

"Well," remarked Seaton, "that million-dollar reward will bring him in, sure. No honor that
ever existed among thieves, or even among free-lances of diplomacy, could stand that strain."

"I'm not so sure of that, Dick," said Crane. "If either one of our ideas is the right one,
very few men would know enough about the affair to give pertinent information, and they probably
would not live long enough to enjoy the reward very thoroughly. Even a million dollars fails
in that case."

"I rather agree with Mr. Crane, Seaton. If it were an ordinary affair--and I am as sure it
is not as the police are that it is--a reward of that size would get us our man within two
days. As it is, I doubt very much that the reward will do us any good. I'm afraid that it will
never be claimed."

"Wonder if the Secret Service could help us out? They'd be interested if it should turn out
to be some foreign power."

"I took it up with the Chief himself, just after it happened last night. He doesn't think that
it can be a foreign country. He has their agents pretty well spotted, and the only one that
could fill the bill--you know a man with that description and with the cold nerve to do the
job would be apt to be known--was in San Francisco, the time this job was pulled off."

       *       *       *       *       *

"The more you talk, the more I am convinced that it was DuQuesne himself," declared Seaton,
positively. "He is almost exactly my size and build, is the only man I know of who could do
anything with the solution after he got it, and he has nerve enough to do anything."

"I would like to think it was DuQuesne," replied the detective, thoughtfully, "but I'm afraid
we'll have to count him out of it entirely. He has been under the constant surveillance of
my best men ever since you mentioned him. We have detectaphones in his rooms, wires on his
telephone, and are watching him night and day. He never goes out except to work, never has
any except unimportant telephone calls, and the instruments register only the occasional scratching
of a match, the rustle of papers, and other noises of a man studying. He's innocent."

"That may be true," assented Seaton doubtfully, "but you want to remember that he knows more
about electricity than the guy that invented it, and I'm not sure that he can't talk to a detectaphone
and make it say anything he wants it to. Anyway, we can soon settle it. Yesterday I made a
special trip down to the Bureau, with some notes as an excuse, to set this object-compass on
him," taking one of the small instruments from his pocket as he spoke. "I watched him a while
last night, then fixed an alarm to wake me if the needle moved much, but it pointed steady
all night. See! It's moving now. That means that he is going to work early, as usual. Now I'm
morally certain that he's mixed up in this thing somewhere, and I'm not convinced that he isn't
slipping one over on your men some way--he's a clever devil. I wonder if you wouldn't take
this compass and watch him yourself tonight, just on general principles? Or let me do it. I'd
be glad to. I say 'tonight' because if he did get the stuff here he didn't deliver it anywhere
last night. It's just a chance, of course, but he may do it tonight."

After the compass had been explained to the detective he gladly consented to the plan, declaring
that he would willingly spend the time just to watch such an unheard-of instrument work. After
another hour of fruitless discussion Prescott took his leave, saying that he would mount an
impregnable guard from that time on.

Late that evening Prescott joined the two men who were watching DuQuesne's house. They reported
that all was perfectly quiet, as usual. The scientist was in his library, the instruments registering
only the usual occasional faint sounds of a man absorbed in study. But after an hour of waiting,
and while the microphones made a noise as of rustling papers, the needle of the compass moved.
It dipped slowly toward the earth as though DuQuesne were descending into the cellar, but at
the same time the shadow of his unmistakable profile was thrown upon the window shade as he
apparently crossed the room.

"Can't you hear him walk?" demanded Prescott.

"No. He has heavy Turkish rugs all over the library, and he always walks very lightly, besides."

       *       *       *       *       *

Prescott watched the needle in amazement as it dipped deeper and deeper, pointing down into
the earth almost under his feet and then behind him, as though DuQuesne had walked beneath
him. He did not, could not, believe it. He was certain that something had gone wrong with the
strange instrument in his hand, nevertheless he followed the pointing needle. It led him beside
Park Road, down the hill, straight toward the long bridge which forms one entrance to Rock
Creek Park. Though skeptical, Prescott took no chances, and as he approached the bridge he
left the road and concealed himself behind a clump of trees, from which point of vantage he
could see the ground beneath the bridge as well as the roadway. Soon the bridge trembled under
the weight of a heavy automobile going toward the city at a high rate of speed. He saw DuQuesne,
with a roll of papers under his arm, emerge from under the bridge just in time to leap aboard
the automobile, which slowed down only enough to enable him to board it in safety. The detective
noticed that the car was a Pierce-Arrow limousine--a car not common, even in Washington--and
rushed out to get its number, but the license plates were so smeared with oil and dust that
the numbers could not be read by the light of the tail lamp. Glancing at the compass in his
hand he saw that the delicate needle was now pointing steadily at the fleeing car, and all
doubts as to the power of the instrument were dispelled. He rejoined his men, informed them
that DuQuesne had eluded them, and took one of them up the hill to a nearby garage. There he
engaged a fast car and set out in pursuit, choosing the path for the chauffeur by means of
the compass. His search ended at the residence of Brookings, the General Manager of the great
World Steel Corporation. Here he dismissed the car and watched the house while his assistant
went to bring out the fast motorcycle used by Prescott when high speed was desirable.

After four hours a small car bearing the license number of a distant state--which was found,
by subsequent telegraphing, to be unknown to the authorities of that state--drove under the
porte-cochère, and the hidden watcher saw DuQuesne, without the papers, step into it. Knowing
now what to expect, Prescott drove his racing motorcycle at full speed out to the Park Road
Bridge and concealed himself beneath the structure, in a position commanding a view of the
concrete abutment through which the scientist must have come. Soon he heard a car slow down
overhead, heard a few rapid footfalls, and saw the dark form of a large man outlined against
the gray face of the abutment. He saw the man lift his hand high above his head, and saw a
black rectangle appear in the gray, engulf the man, and disappear. After a few minutes he approached
the abutment and searched its face with the help of his flash-light. He finally succeeded in
tracing the almost imperceptible crack which outlined the door, and the concealed button which
DuQuesne had pressed to open it. He did not press the button, as it might be connected to an
alarm. Deep in thought, he mounted his motorcycle and made his way to his home to get a few
hours of sleep before reporting to Crane whom he was scheduled to see at breakfast next morning.

       *       *       *       *       *

Both men were waiting for him when he appeared, and he noticed with pleasure that Shiro, with
a heavily-bandaged head, was insisting that he was perfectly able to wait on the table instead
of breakfasting in bed. He calmly proceeded to serve breakfast in spite of Crane's remonstrances,
having ceremoniously ordered out of the kitchen the colored man who had been secured to take
his place.

"Well, gentlemen," the detective began, "part of the mystery is straightened out. I was entirely
wrong, and each of you were partly right. It was DuQuesne, in all probability. It is equally
probable that a great company--in this case the World Steel Corporation--is backing him, though
I don't believe there is a ghost of a show of ever being able to prove it in law. Your 'object-compass'
did the trick."

He narrated all the events of the previous night.

"I'd like to send him to the chair for this job," said Seaton with rising anger. "We ought
to shoot him anyway, damn him--I'm sorry duels have gone out of fashion, for I can't shoot
him off-hand, the way things are now--I sure wish I could."

"No, you cannot shoot him," said Crane, thoughtfully, "and neither can I, worse luck. We are
not in his class there. And you must not fight with him, either"--noting that Seaton's powerful
hands had doubled into fists, the knuckles showing white through the tanned skin--"though that
would be a fight worth watching and I would like to see you give him the beating of his life.
A little thing like a beating is not a fraction of what he deserves and it would show him that
we have found him out. No, we must do it legally or let him entirely alone. You think there
is no hope of proving it, Prescott?"

"Frankly, I see very little chance of it. There is always hope, of course, and if that bunch
of pirates ever makes a slip, we'll be right there waiting to catch 'em. While I don't believe
in holding out false encouragement, they've never slipped yet. I'll take my men off DuQuesne,
now that we've linked him up with Steel. It doesn't make any difference, does it, whether he
goes to them every night or only once a week?

"No."

"Then about all I can do is to get everything I can on that Steel crowd, and that is very much
like trying to get blood out of a turnip. I intend to keep after them, of course, for I owe
them something for killing two of my men here, as well as for other favors they have done me
in the past, but don't expect too much. I have tackled them before, and so have police headquarters
and even the Secret Service itself, under cover, and all that any of us has been able to get
is an occasional small fish. We could never land the big fellows. In fact, we have never found
the slightest material proof of what we are morally certain is the truth, that World Steel
is back of a lot of deviltry all over the country. The little fellows who do the work either
don't know anything or are afraid to tell. I'll see if I can find out what they are doing with
the stuff they stole, but I'm not even sure of doing that. You can't plant instruments on that
bunch--it would be like trying to stick a pin into a sleeping cat without waking him up. They
undoubtedly have one of the best corps of detectives in the world. You haven't perfected an
instrument which enables you to see into a closed room and hear what is going on there, have
you?" And upon being assured that they had not, he took his leave.

"Optimistic cuss, ain't he?" remarked Seaton.

"He has cause to be, Dick. World Steel is a soulless corporation if there ever was one. They
have the shrewdest lawyers in the country, and they get away legally with things that are flagrantly
illegal, such as freezing out competitors, stealing patents, and the like. Report has it that
they do not stop at arson, treason, or murder to attain their ends, but as Prescott said, they
never leave any legal proof behind them."

"Well, we should fret, anyway. Of course, a monopoly is what they're after, but they can't
form one because they can't possibly get the rest of our solution. Even if they should get
it, we can get more. It won't be as easy as this last batch was, since the X was undoubtedly
present in some particular lot of platinum in extraordinary quantities, but now that I know
exactly what to look for, I can find more. So they can't get their monopoly unless they kill
us off...."

"Exactly. Go on, I see you are getting the idea. If we should both conveniently die, they could
get the solution from the company, and have the monopoly, since no one else can handle it."

"But they couldn't get away with it, Mart--never in a thousand years, even if they wanted to.
Of course I am small fry, but you are too big a man for even Steel to do away with. It can't
be done."

"I am not so sure of that. Airplane accidents are numerous, and I am an aviator. Also, has
it ever occurred to you that the heavy forging for the Skylark, ordered a while ago, are of steel?"

Seaton paused, dumbfounded, in the act of lighting his pipe.

"But thanks to your object-compass, we are warned." Crane continued, evenly. "Those forgings
are going through the most complete set of tests known to the industry, and if they go into
the Skylark at all it will be after I am thoroughly convinced that they will not give way on
our first trip into space. But we can do nothing until the steel arrives, and with the guard
Prescott has here now we are safe enough. Luckily, the enemy knows nothing of the object-compass
or the X-plosive, and we must keep them in ignorance. Hereinafter, not even the guards get
a look at anything we do."

"They sure don't. Let's get busy!"

       *       *       *       *       *

DuQuesne and Brookings met in conference in a private room of the Perkins Café.

"What's the good word, Doctor?"

"So-so," replied the scientist. "The stuff is all they said it was, but we haven't enough of
it to build much of a power-plant. We can't go ahead with it, anyway, as long as Seaton and
Crane have nearly all their original solution."

"No, we can't. We must find a way of getting it. I see now that we should have done as you
suggested, and taken it before they had warning and put it out of our reach."

"There's no use holding post-mortems. We've got to get it, some way, and everybody that knows
anything about that new metal, how to get it or how to handle it, must die. At first, it would
have been enough to kill Seaton. Now, however, there is no doubt that Crane knows all about
it, and he probably has left complete instructions in case he gets killed in an accident--he's
the kind that would. We will have to keep our eyes open and wipe out those instructions and
anyone who has seen them. You see that, don't you?"

"Yes, I am afraid that is the only way out. We must have the monopoly, and anyone who might
be able to interfere with it must be removed. How has your search for more X prospered?"

"About as well as I expected. We bought up all the platinum wastes we could get, and reworked
all the metallic platinum and allied metals we could buy in the open market, and got less than
a gram of X out of the whole lot. It's scarcer than radium. Seaton's finding so much of it
at once was an accident, pure and simple--it couldn't happen once in a million years."

"Well, have you any suggestions as to how we can get that solution?"

"No. I haven't thought of anything but that very thing ever since I found that they had hidden
it, and I can't yet see any good way of getting it. My forte is direct action and that fails
in this case, since no amount of force or torture could make Crane reveal the hiding-place
of the solution. It's probably in the safest safe-deposit vault in the country. He wouldn't
carry the key on him, probably wouldn't have it in the house. Killing Seaton or Crane, or both
of them, is easy enough, but it probably wouldn't get us the solution, as I have no doubt that
Crane has provided for everything."

"Probably he has. But if he should disappear the stuff would have to come to light, or the
Seaton-Crane Company might start their power-plant. In that case, we probably could get it?"

"Possibly, you mean. That method is too slow to suit me, though. It would take months, perhaps
years, and would be devilishly uncertain, to boot. They'll know something is in the wind, and
the stuff will be surrounded by every safeguard they can think of. There must be some better
way than that, but I haven't been able to think of it."

"Neither have I, but your phrase 'direct action' gives me an idea. You say that that method
has failed. What do you think of trying indirect action in the shape of Perkins, who is indirection
personified?"

"Bring him in. He may be able to figure out something."

       *       *       *       *       *

Perkins was called in, and the main phases of the situation laid before him. The three men
sat in silence for many minutes while the crafty strategist studied the problem. Finally he spoke.

"There's only one way, gentlemen. We must get a handle on either Seaton or Crane strong enough
to make them give up their bottle of dope, their plans, and everything...."

"Handle!" interrupted DuQuesne. "You talk like a fool! You can't get anything on either of them."

"You misunderstand me, Doctor. You can get a handle of some kind on any living man. Not necessarily
in his past, you understand--I know that anything like that is out of the question in this
case--but in his future. With some men it is money, with others power, with others fame, with
others women or some woman, and so on down the list. What can we use here? Money is out of
the question, so are power and fame, as they already have both in plain sight. It seems to
me that women would be our best chance."

"Hah!" snorted the chemist. "Crane has been chased by all the women of three continents so
long that he's womanproof. Seaton is worse--he's engaged, and wouldn't realize that a woman
was on his trail, even if you could find a better looking one to work on him than the girl
he's engaged to--which would be a hard job. Cleopatra herself couldn't swing that order."

"Engaged? That makes it simple as A B C."

"Simple? In the devil's name, how?"

"Easy as falling off a log. You have enough of the dope to build a space-car from those plans,
haven't you?"

"Yes. What has that to do with the case?"

"It has everything to do with it. I would suggest that we build such a car and use it to carry
off the girl. After we have her safe we could tell Seaton that she is marooned on some distant
planet, and that she will be returned to earth only after all the solution, all notes, plans,
and everything pertaining to the new metal are surrendered. That will bring him, and Crane
will consent. Then, afterward, Dr. Seaton may go away indefinitely, and if desirable, Mr. Crane
may accompany him."

"But suppose they try to fight?" asked Brookings.

Perkins slid down into his chair in deep thought, his pale eyes under half-closed lids darting
here and there, his stubby fingers worrying his watch-chain restlessly.

"Who is the girl?" he asked at last.

"Dorothy Vaneman, the daughter of the lawyer. She's that auburn-haired beauty that the papers
were so full of when she came out last year."

"Vaneman is a director in the Seaton-Crane Company. That makes it still better. If they show
fight and follow us, that beautiful car we are making for them will collapse and they will
be out of the way. Vaneman, as Seaton's prospective father-in-law and a member of his company,
probably knows something about the secret. Maybe all of it. With his daughter in a space-car,
supposedly out in space, and Seaton and Crane out of the way, Vaneman would listen to reason
and let go of the solution, particularly as nobody knows much about it except Seaton and Crane."

"That strikes me as a perfectly feasible plan," said Brookings. "But you wouldn't really take
her to another planet, would you? Why not use an automobile or an airplane, and tell Seaton
that it was a space-car?"

"I wouldn't advise that. He might not believe it, and they might make a lot of trouble. It
must be a real space-car even if we don't take her out of the city. To make it more impressive,
you should take her in plain sight of Seaton--no, that would be too dangerous, as I have found
out from the police that Seaton has a permit to carry arms, and I know that he is one of the
fastest men with a pistol in the whole country. Do it in plain sight of her folks, say, or
a crowd of people; being masked, of course, or dressed in an aviator's suit, with the hood
and goggles on. Take her straight up out of sight, then hide her somewhere until Seaton listens
to reason. I know that he will listen, but if he doesn't, you might let him see you start out
to visit her. He'll be sure to follow you in their rotten car. As soon as he does that, he's
our meat. But that raises the question of who is going to drive the car?"

"I am," replied DuQuesne. "I will need some help, though, as at least one man must stay with
the girl while I bring the car back."

"We don't want to let anybody else in on this if we can help it," cautioned Brookings. "You
could go along, couldn't you, Perkins?"

"Is it safe?"

"Absolutely," answered DuQuesne. "They have everything worked out to the queen's taste."

"That's all right, then. I'll take the trip. Also," turning to Brookings, "it will help in
another little thing we are doing--the Spencer affair."

"Haven't you got that stuff away from her yet, after having had her locked up in that hell-hole
for two months?" asked Brookings.

"No. She's stubborn as a mule. We've given her the third degree time after time, but it's no use."

       *       *       *       *       *

"What's this?" asked DuQuesne. "Deviltry in the main office?"

"Yes. This Margaret Spencer claims that we swindled her father out of an invention and indirectly
caused his death. She secured a position with us in search of evidence. She is an expert stenographer,
and showed such ability that she was promoted until she became my secretary. Our detectives
must have been asleep, as she made away with some photographs and drawings before they caught
her. She has no real evidence, of course, but she might cause trouble with a jury, especially
as she is one of the best-looking women in Washington. Perkins is holding her until she returns
the stolen articles."

"Why can't you kill her off?"

"She cannot be disposed of until after we know where the stuff is, because she says, and Perkins
believes, that the evidence will show up in her effects. We must do something about her soon,
as the search for her is dying down and she will be given up for dead."

"What's the idea about her and the space-car?"

"If the car proves reliable we might actually take her out into space and give her the choice
between telling and walking back. She has nerve enough here on earth to die before giving up,
but I don't believe any human being would be game to go it alone on a strange world. She'd wilt."

"I believe you're right, Perkins. Your suggestions are the best way out. Don't you think so,
Doctor?"

"Yes, I don't see how we can fail--we're sure to win, either way. You are prepared for trouble
afterward, of course?"

"Certainly, but I don't think there will be much trouble. They can't possibly link the three
of us together. They aren't wise to you, are they, Doctor?"

"Not a chance!" sneered DuQuesne. "They ran themselves ragged trying to get something on me,
but they couldn't do it. They have given me up as a bad job. I am still as careful as ever,
though--I am merely a pure scientist in the Bureau of Chemistry!"

All three laughed, and Perkins left the room. The talk then turned to the construction of the
space-car. It was decided to rush the work on it, so that DuQuesne could familiarize himself
with its operation, but not to take any steps in the actual abduction until such time as Seaton
and Crane were nearly ready to take their first flight, so that they could pursue the abductors
in case Seaton was still obdurate after a few days of his fiancée's absence. DuQuesne insisted
that the car should mount a couple of heavy guns, to destroy the pursuing car if the faulty
members should happen to hold together long enough to carry it out into space.

After a long discussion, in which every detail of the plan was carefully considered, the two
men left the restaurant, by different exits.

CHAPTER VII

The Trial Voyage

The great steel forgings which were to form the framework of the Skylark finally arrived and
were hauled into the testing shed. There, behind closed doors, Crane inspected every square
inch of the massive members with a lens, but could find nothing wrong. Still unsatisfied, he
fitted up an electrical testing apparatus in order to search out flaws which might be hidden
beneath the surface. This device revealed flaws in every piece, and after thoroughly testing
each one and mapping out the imperfections he turned to Seaton with a grave face.

"Worse than useless, every one of them. They are barely strong enough to stand shipment. They
figured that we would go slowly until we were well out of the atmosphere, then put on power--then
something would give way and we would never come back."

"That's about the right dope, I guess. But now what'll we do? We can't cancel without letting
them know we're onto them, and we certainly can't use this stuff."

"No, but we will go ahead and build this ship, anyway, so that they will think that we are
going ahead with it. At the same time we will build another one, about four times this size,
in absolute secrecy, and...."

"What d'you mean, absolute secrecy? How can you keep steel castings and forgings of that size
secret from Steel?"

"I know a chap who owns and operates a small steel plant, so insignificant, relatively, that
he has not yet been bought out or frozen out by Steel. I was able to do him a small favor once,
and I am sure that he will be glad to return it. We will not be able to oversee the work, that
is a drawback. We can get MacDougall to do it for us, however, and with him doing the work
we can rest assured that there will be nothing off color. Even Steel couldn't buy him."

"MacDougall! The man who installed the Intercontinental plant? He wouldn't touch a little job
like this with a pole!"

"I think he would. He and I are rather friendly, and after I tell him all about it he will
be glad to take it. It means building the first interplanetary vessel, you know."

"Wouldn't Steel follow him up if he should go to work on a mysterious project? He's too big
to hide."

"No. He will go camping--he often does. I have gone with him several times when we were completely
out of touch with civilization for two months at a time. Now, about the ship we want. Have
you any ideas?"

"It will cost more than our entire capital."

"That is easily arranged. We do not care how much it costs."

Seaton began to object to drawing so heavily upon the resources of his friend, but was promptly
silenced.

"I told you when we started," Crane said flatly, "that your solution and your idea are worth
far more than half a million. In fact, they are worth more than everything I have. No more
talk of the money end of it, Dick."

"All right. We'll build a regular go-getter. Four times the size--she'll be a bear-cat, Mart.
I'm glad this one is on the fritz. She'll carry a two-hundred-pound bar--Zowie! Watch our smoke!
And say, why wouldn't it be a good idea to build an attractor--a thing like an object-compass,
but mounting a ten-pound bar instead of a needle, so that if they chase us in space we can
reach out and grab 'em? We might mount a machine-gun in each quadrant, shooting X-plosive bullets,
through pressure gaskets in the walls. We should have something for defense--I don't like the
possibility of having that gang of pirates after us, and nothing to fight back with except
thought-waves."

"Right. We will do both those things. But we should make the power-plant big enough to avert
any possible contingency--say four hundred pounds--and we should have everything in duplicate,
from power-plant to push-buttons."

"I don't think that's necessary, Mart. Don't you think that's carrying caution to extremes?"

"Possibly--but I would rather be a live coward than a dead hero, wouldn't you?"

"You chirped it, old scout, I sure would. I never did like the looks of that old guy with the
scythe, and I would hate to let DuQuesne feel that he had slipped something over on me at my
own game. Besides, I've developed a lot of caution myself, lately. Double she is, with a skin
of four-foot Norwegian armor. Let's get busy!"

       *       *       *       *       *

They made the necessary alteration in the plans, and in a few days work was begun upon the
huge steel shell in the little mountain steel-plant. The work was done under the constant supervision
of the great MacDougall, by men who had been in his employ for years and who were all above
suspicion. While it was being built Seaton and Crane employed a force of men and went ahead
with the construction of the space-car in the testing shed. While they did not openly slight
the work nearly all their time was spent in the house, perfecting the many essential things
which were to go into the real Skylark. There was the attractor, for which they had to perfect
a special sighting apparatus so that it could act in any direction, and yet would not focus
upon the ship itself nor anything it contained. There were many other things.

It was in this work that the strikingly different temperaments and abilities of the two men
were most clearly revealed. Seaton strode up and down the room, puffing great volumes of smoke
from his hot and reeking briar, suggesting methods and ideas, his keen mind finding the way
over, around, or through the apparently insuperable obstacles which beset their path. Crane,
seated calmly at the drafting-table, occasionally inhaling a mouthful of smoke from one of
his specially-made cigarettes, mercilessly tore Seaton's suggestions to shreds--pointing out
their weaknesses, proving his points with his cold, incisive reasoning and his slide-rule calculations
of factors, stresses, and strains. Seaton in turn would find a remedy for every defect, and
finally, the idea complete and perfect, Crane would impale it upon the point of his drafting
pencil and spread it in every detail upon the paper before him, while Seaton's active mind
leaped to the next problem.

Not being vitally interested in the thing being built in the shed, they did not know that to
the flawed members were being attached faulty plates, by imperfect welding. Even if they had
been interested they could not have found the poor workmanship by any ordinary inspection,
for it was being done by a picked crew of experts picked by Perkins. But to make things even,
Perkins' crew did not know that the peculiar instruments installed by Seaton and Crane, of
which their foreman took many photographs, were not real instruments, and were made only nearly
enough like them to pass inspection. They were utterly useless, in design and function far
different from the real instruments intended for the Skylark.

Finally, the last dummy instrument was installed in the worthless space-car, which the friends
referred to between themselves as "The Cripple," a name which Seaton soon changed to "Old Crip."
The construction crew was dismissed after Crane had let the foreman overhear a talk between
Seaton and himself in which they decided not to start for a few days as they had some final
experiments to make. Prescott reported that Steel had relaxed its vigilance and was apparently
waiting for the first flight. About the same time word was received from MacDougall that the
real Skylark was ready for the finishing touches. A huge triplane descended upon Crane Field
and was loaded to its capacity with strange looking equipment. When it left Seaton and Crane
went with it, "to make the final tests before the first flight," leaving a heavy guard over
the house and the testing shed.

A few nights later, in inky blackness, a huge shape descended rapidly in front of the shed,
whose ponderous doors opened to receive it and closed quickly after it. The Skylark moved lightly
and easily as a wafted feather, betraying its thousands of tons of weight only by the hole
it made in the hard-beaten earth of the floor as it settled to rest. Opening one of the heavy
doors, Seaton and Crane sprang out into the darkness.

Dorothy and her father, who had been informed that the Skylark was to be brought home that
night, were waiting. Seaton caught up his sweetheart in one mighty arm and extended his hand
past her to Vaneman, who seized it in both his own. Upon the young man's face was the look
of a victorious king returning from conquest. For a few minutes disconnected exclamations were
all that any of the party could utter. Then Seaton, loosening slightly his bear's hold upon
Dorothy, spoke.

"She flies!" he cried exultantly. "She flies, dearest, like a ray of light for speed and like
a bit of thistledown for lightness. We've been around the moon!"

"Around the moon!" cried the two amazed visitors. "So soon?" asked Vaneman. "When did you start?"

"Almost an hour ago," replied Crane readily; he had already taken out his watch. His voice
was calm, his face quiet, but to those who knew him best a deeper resonance in his voice and
a deeper blue sparkle in his eyes betrayed his emotion. Both inventors were moved more than
they could have told by their achievement, by the complete success of the great space-cruiser
upon which they had labored for months with all the power of their marvelous intellects. Seaton
stood now at the summit of his pride. No recognition by the masses, no applause by the multitudes,
no praise even from the upper ten of his own profession could equal for him the silent adulation
of the two before him. Dorothy's exquisite face was glorified as she looked at her lover. Her
eyes wonderful as they told him how high he stood above all others in her world, how much she
loved him. Seeing that look; that sweet face, more beautiful than ever in this, his hour of
triumph; that perfect, adorable body, Seaton forgot the others and a more profound exaltation
than that brought by his flight filled his being--humble thankfulness that he was the man to
receive the untold treasure of her great giving.

"Every bit of mechanism we had occasion to use worked perfectly," Crane stated proudly. "We
did not find it necessary to change any of our apparatus and we hope to make a longer flight
soon. The hour we took on this trip might easily have been only a few minutes, for the Lark
did not even begin to pick up speed."

       *       *       *       *       *

Shiro looked at Crane with an air of utter devotion and bowed until his head approached the floor.

"Sir," he said in his stilted English. "Honorable Skylark shall be marvelous wonder. If permitting,
I shall luxuriate in preparing suitable refreshment."

The permission granted, he trotted away into the house, and the travelers invited their visitors
to inspect the new craft. Crane and the older man climbed through the circular doorway, which
was at an elevation of several feet above the ground. Seaton and Dorothy exchanged a brief
but enthusiastic caress before he lifted her lightly up to the opening and followed her up
a short flight of stairs. Although she knew what to expect, from her lover's descriptions and
from her own knowledge of "Old Crip," which she had seen many times, she caught her breath
in amazement as she stood up and looked about the brilliantly-lighted interior of the great
sky-rover. It was a sight such as had never before been seen upon earth.

She saw a spherical shell of hardened steel armor-plate, fully forty feet in diameter; though
its true shape was not readily apparent from the inside, as it was divided into several compartments
by horizontal floors or decks. In the exact center of the huge shell was a spherical network
of enormous steel beams. Inside this structure could be seen a similar network which, mounted
upon universal bearings, was free to revolve in any direction. This inner network was filled
with machinery, surrounding a shining copper cylinder. From the outer network radiated six
mighty supporting columns. These, branching as they neared the hull of the vessel, supported
the power-plant and steering apparatus in the center and so strengthened the shell that the
whole structure was nearly as strong as a solid steel ball. She noticed that the floor, perhaps
eight feet below the center, was heavily upholstered in leather and did not seem solid; and
that the same was true of the dozen or more seats--she could not call them chairs--which were
built in various places. She gazed with interest at the two instrument boards, upon which flashed
tiny lights and the highly-polished plate glass, condensite, and metal of many instruments,
the use of which she could not guess.

After a few minutes of silence both visitors began to ask questions, and Seaton showed them
the principal features of the novel craft. Crane accompanied them in silence, enjoying their
pleasure, glorying in the mighty vessel. Seaton called attention to the great size and strength
of the lateral supporting columns, one of which was immediately above their heads, and then
led them over to the vertical column which pierced the middle of the floor. Enormous as the
lateral had seemed, it appeared puny in comparison with this monster of fabricated steel. Seaton
explained that the two verticals were many times stronger than the four laterals, as the center
of gravity of the ship had been made lower than its geometrical center, so that the apparent
motion of the vessel and therefore the power of the bar, would usually be merely vertical.
Resting one hand caressingly upon the huge column, he exultantly explained that these members
were "the last word in strength, made up of many separate I-beams and angles of the strongest
known special steel, latticed and braced until no conceivable force could make them yield a
millimeter."

"But why such strength?" asked the lawyer doubtfully. "This column alone would hold up Brooklyn
Bridge."

"To hold down the power-plant, so that the bar won't tear through the ship when we cut her
loose," replied Seaton. "Have you any idea how fast this bird can fly?"

"Well, I have heard you speak of traveling with the velocity of light, but that is overdrawn,
isn't it?"

"Not very much. Our figures show that with this four-hundred-pound bar"--pointing to the copper
cylinder in the exact center of the inner sphere--"we could develop not only the velocity of
light, but an acceleration equal to that velocity, were it not for the increase in mass at
high velocities, as shown by Einstein and others. We can't go very fast near the earth, of
course, as the friction of the air would melt the whole works in a few minutes. Until we get
out of the atmosphere our speed will be limited by the ability of steel to withstand melting
by the friction of the air to somewhere in the neighborhood of four or five thousand miles
per hour, but out in space we can develop any speed we wish, up to that of light as a limit."

"I studied physics a little in my youth. Wouldn't the mere force of such an acceleration as
you mention flatten you on the floor and hold you there? And any sudden jar would certainly
kill you."

       *       *       *       *       *

"There can't be any sudden jar. This is a special floor, you notice. It is mounted on long,
extremely heavy springs, to take up any possible jar. Also, whenever we are putting on power
we won't try to stand up, our legs would crimple up like strings. We will ride securely strapped
into those special seats, which are mounted the same as the floor, only a whole lot more so.
As to the acceleration...."

"That word means picking up speed, doesn't it?" interrupted Dorothy.

"The rate of picking up speed," corrected Seaton. "That is, if you were going forty miles per
hour one minute, and fifty the next minute, your acceleration would be ten miles per hour per
minute. See? It's acceleration that makes you feel funny when you start up or down in an elevator."

"Then riding in this thing will be like starting up in an elevator so that your heart sinks
into your boots and you can't breathe?"

"Yes, only worse. We will pick up speed faster and keep on doing it...."

"Seriously," interrupted the lawyer, "do you think that the human body can stand any such acceleration
as that?"

"I don't know. We are going to find out, by starting out slowly and increasing our acceleration
to as much as we can stand."

"I see," Vaneman replied. "But how are you going to steer her? How do you keep permanent reference
points, since there are no directions in space?"

"That was our hardest problem," explained Seaton, "but Martin solved it perfectly. See the
power-plant up there? Notice those big supporting rings and bearings? Well, the power-plant
is entirely separate from the ship, as it is inside that inner sphere, about which the outer
sphere and the ship itself are free to revolve in any direction. No matter how much the ship
rolls and pitches, as she is bound to do every time we come near enough to any star or planet
to be influenced by its gravitation, the bar stays where it is pointed. Those six big jackets
in the outer sphere, on the six sides of the bar, cover six pairs of gyroscope wheels, weighing
several tons each, turning at a terrific speed in a vacuum. The gyroscopes keep the whole outer
sphere in exactly the same position as long as they are kept turning, and afford us not only
permanent planes of reference, but also a solid foundation in those planes which can be used
in pointing the bar. The bar can be turned instantly to any direction whatever by special electrical
instruments on the boards. You see, the outer sphere stays immovably fixed in that position,
with the bar at liberty to turn in any direction inside it, and the ship at liberty to do the
same thing outside it.

"Now we will show you where we sleep," Seaton continued. "We have eight rooms, four below and
four above," leading the way to a narrow, steep steel stairway and down into a very narrow
hall, from either side of which two doors opened. "This is my room, the adjoining one is Mart's.
Shiro sleeps across the hall. The rest of the rooms are for our guests on future trips."

Sliding back the door, he switched on the light and revealed a small but fully-appointed bedroom,
completely furnished with everything necessary, yet everything condensed into the least possible
space. The floor, like the one above, was of cushioned leather supported by springs. The bed
was a modification of the special seats already referred to. Opening another sliding door,
he showed them an equally complete and equally compact bathroom.

"You see, we have all the comforts of home. This bathroom, however, is practical only when
we have some force downward, either gravitation or our own acceleration. The same reasoning
accounts for the hand-rails you see everywhere on board. Drifting in space, you know, there
is no weight, and you can't walk; you must pull yourself around. If you tried to take a step
you would bounce up and hit the ceiling, and stay there. That is why the ceilings are so well
padded. And if you tried to wash your face you would throw water all over the place, and it
would float around in the air instead of falling to the floor. As long as we can walk we can
use the bathroom--if I should want to wash my face while we are drifting, I just press this
button here, and the pilot will put on enough acceleration to make the correct use of water
possible. There are a lot of surprising things about a trip into space."

"I don't doubt it a bit, and I'm simply wild to go for a ride with you. When will you take
me, Dicky?" asked Dorothy eagerly.

"Very soon, Dottie. As soon as we get her in perfect running condition. You shall be the first
to ride with us, I promise you."

"Where do you cook and eat? How do you see out? How about the air and water supply? How do
you keep warm, or cool, as the case may be?" asked the girl's father, as though he were cross-examining
a witness.

"Shiro has a galley on the main floor, and tables fold up into the wall of the main compartment.
The passengers see out by sliding back steel panels, which normally cover the windows. The
pilot can see in any direction from his seat at the instrument-board, by means of special instruments,
something like periscopes. The windows are made of optical glass similar to that used in the
largest telescopes. They are nearly as thick as the hull and have a compressive resistance
almost equal to that of armor steel. Although so thick, they are crystal clear, and a speck
of dust on the outer surface is easily seen. We have water enough in tanks to last us three
months, or indefinitely if we should have to be careful, as we can automatically distill and
purify all our waste water, recovering absolutely pure H2O. We have compressed air, also in
tanks, but we need very little, as the air is constantly being purified. Also, we have oxygen-generating
apparatus aboard, in case we should run short. As to keeping warm, we have electric heating
coils, run by the practically inexhaustible power of a small metal bar. If we get too near
the sun and get too warm, we have a refrigerating machine to cool us off. Anything else?"

"You'd better give up, Dad," laughingly advised his daughter. "You've thought of everything,
haven't you, Dick?"

"Mart has, I think. This is all his doing, you know. I wouldn't have thought of a tenth of
it, myself."

"I must remind you young folks," said the older man, glancing at his watch, "that it is very
late and high time for Dottie and me to be going home. We would like to stay and see the rest
of it, but you know we must be away from here before daylight."

       *       *       *       *       *

As they went into the house Vaneman asked:

"What does the other side of the moon look like? I have always been curious about it."

"We were not able to see much," replied Crane "It was too dark and we did not take the time
to explore it, but from what we could see by means of our searchlights it is very much like
this side--the most barren and desolate place imaginable. After we go to Mars, we intend to
explore the moon thoroughly."

"Mars, then, is your first goal? When do you intend to start?"

"We haven't decided definitely. Probably in a day or two. Everything is ready now."

As the Vanemans had come out in the street car, in order to attract as little attention as
possible, Seaton volunteered to take them home in one of Crane's cars. As they bade Crane goodnight
after enjoying Shiro's "suitable refreshment" the lawyer took the chauffeur's seat, motioning
his daughter and Seaton into the closed body of the car. As soon as they had started Dorothy
turned in the embrace of her lover's arm.

"Dick," she said fiercely. "I would have been worried sick if I had known that you were way
off there?"

"I knew it, sweetheart. That's why I didn't tell you we were going. We both knew the Skylark
was perfectly safe, but I knew that you would worry about our first trip. Now that we have
been to the moon you won't be uneasy when we go to Mars, will you, dear?"

"I can't help it, boy. I will be afraid that something terrible has happened, every minute.
Won't you take me with you? Then, if anything happens, it will happen to both of us, and that
is as it should be. You know that I wouldn't want to keep on living if anything should happen
to you."

He put both arms around her as his reply, and pressed his cheek to hers.

"Dorothy sweetheart, I know exactly how you feel. I feel the same way myself. I'm awfully sorry,
dear, but I can't do it. I know the machine is safe, but I've got to prove it to everybody
else before I take you on a long trip with me. Your father will agree with me that you ought
not to go, on the first trip or two, anyway. And besides, what would Madam Grundy say?"

"Well, there is a way...." she began, and he felt her face turn hot.

His arms tightened around her and his breath came fast.

"I know it, sweetheart, and I would like nothing better in the world than to be married today
and take our honeymoon in the Skylark, but I can't do it. After we come back from the first
long trip we will be married just as soon as you say ready, and after that we will always be
together wherever I go. But I can't take even the millionth part of a chance with anything
as valuable as you are--you see that, don't you, Dottie?"

"I suppose so," she returned disconsolately, "but you'll make it a short trip, for my sake?
I know I won't rest a minute until you get back."

"I promise you that we won't be gone more than four days. Then for the greatest honeymoon that
ever was," and they clung together in the dark body of the car, each busy with solemn and beautiful
thoughts of the happiness to come.

They soon reached their destination. As they entered the house Dorothy made one more attempt.

"Dad, Dick is just too perfectly mean. He says he won't take me on the first trip. If you were
going out there wouldn't mother want to go along too?"

After listening to Seaton he gave his decision.

"Dick is right, Kitten. He must make the long trip first. Then, after the machine is proved
reliable, you may go with him. I can think of no better way of spending a honeymoon--it will
be a new one, at least. And you needn't worry about the boys getting back safely. I might not
trust either of them alone, but together they are invincible. Good-night, children. I wish
you success, Dick," as he turned away.

Seaton took a lover's leave of Dorothy, and went into the lawyer's study, taking an envelope
from his pocket.

"Mr. Vaneman," he said in a low voice, "we think the Steel crowd is still camping on our trail.
We are ready for them, with a lot of stuff that they never heard of, but in case anything goes
wrong, Martin has written between the lines of this legal form, in invisible ink A-36, exactly
how to get possession of all our notes and plans, so that the company can go ahead with everything.
With those directions any chemist can find and use the stuff safely. Please put this envelope
in the safest place you can think of, and then forget it unless they get both Crane and me.
There's about one chance in a million of their doing that, but Mart doesn't gamble on even
that chance."

"He is right, Dick. I believe that you can outwit them in any situation, but I will keep this
paper where no one except myself can ever see it, nevertheless. Good-night, son, and good luck."

"The same to you, sir, and thank you. Good-night."

    +--------------------------------------+
    |                                      |
    | The author of this story, being a   |
    | chemist of high standing and an      |
    | excellent mathematician, gives us a  |
    | rare gem in this interplanetary      |
    | tale. For one thing, he suggests an  |
    | interesting use of the action of     |
    | acceleration. In this instalment it  |
    | is made to take the place of gravity |
    | when the interplanetary vehicle is   |
    | out in open space. In order to get   |
    | the gravity effect, a positive or    |
    | negative acceleration could be given |
    | out.                                 |
    |                                      |
    | This instalment retains its easy     |
    | flow of language and continues to    |
    | develop surprise episodes with a     |
    | remarkable degree of realism.       |
    |                                      |
    +--------------------------------------+

CHAPTER VIII

Indirect Action

The afternoon following the homecoming of the Skylark, Seaton and Dorothy returned from a long
horseback ride in the park. After Seaton had mounted his motorcycle Dorothy turned toward a
bench in the shade of an old elm to watch a game of tennis on the court next door. Scarcely
had she seated herself when a great copper-plated ball alighted upon the lawn in front of her.
A heavy steel door snapped open and a powerful figure clad in aviator's leather, the face completely
covered by the hood, leaped out. She jumped to her feet with a cry of joyful surprise, thinking
it was Seaton--a cry which died suddenly as she realized that Seaton had just left her and
that this vessel was far too small to be the Skylark. She turned in flight, but the stranger
caught her in three strides. She found herself helpless in a pair of arms equal in strength
to Seaton's own. Picking her up lightly as a baby, DuQuesne carried her over to the space-car.
Shriek after shriek rang out as she found that her utmost struggles were of no avail against
the giant strength of her captor, that her fiercely-driven nails glanced harmlessly off the
heavy glass and leather of his hood, and that her teeth were equally ineffective against his suit.

With the girl in his arms DuQuesne stepped into the vessel, and as the door clanged shut behind
them Dorothy caught a glimpse of another woman, tied hand and foot in one of the side seats
of the car.

"Tie her feet, Perkins," DuQuesne ordered brusquely, holding her around the body so that her
feet extended straight out in front of him. "She's a wildcat."

As Perkins threw one end of a small rope around her ankles Dorothy doubled up her knees, drawing
her feet as far away from him as possible. As he incautiously approached, she kicked out viciously,
with all the force of her muscular young body behind her heavy riding-boots.

The sharp heel of one small boot struck Perkins squarely in the pit of the stomach--a true
"solar-plexus" blow--and completely knocked out, he staggered back against the instrument-board.
His out-flung arm pushed the speed lever clear out to its last notch, throwing the entire current
of the batteries through the bar, which was pointed straight up, as it had been when they made
their landing, and closing the switch which threw on the power of the repelling outer coating.
There was a creak of the mighty steel fabric, stressed almost to its limit as the vessel darted
upward with its stupendous velocity, and only the carefully-planned spring-and-cushion floor
saved their lives as they were thrown flat and held there by the awful force of their acceleration
as the space-car tore through the thin layer of the earth's atmosphere. So terrific was their
speed, that the friction of the air did not have time to set them afire--they were through
it and into the perfect vacuum of interstellar space before the thick steel hull was even warmed
through. Dorothy lay flat upon her back, just as she had fallen, unable even to move her arms,
gaining each breath only by a terrible effort. Perkins was a huddled heap under the instrument-board.
The other captive, Brookings' ex-secretary, was in somewhat better case, as her bonds had snapped
like string and she was lying at full length in one of the side-seats--forced into that position
and held there, as the design of the seats was adapted for the most comfortable position possible
under such conditions. She, like Dorothy, was gasping for breath, her straining muscles barely
able to force air into her lungs because of the paralyzing weight of her chest.

DuQuesne alone was able to move, and it required all of his Herculean strength to creep and
crawl, snake-like, toward the instrument-board. Finally attaining his goal, he summoned all
his strength to grasp, not the controlling lever, which he knew was beyond his reach, but a
cut-out switch only a couple of feet above his head. With a series of convulsive movements
he fought his way up, first until he was crouching on his elbows and knees, and then into a
squatting position. Placing his left hand under his right, he made a last supreme effort. Perspiration
streamed from him, his mighty muscles stood out in ridges visible even under the heavy leather
of his coat, his lips parted in a snarl over his locked teeth as he threw every ounce of his
wonderful body into an effort to force his right hand up to the switch. His hand approached
it slowly--closed over it and pulled it out.

The result was startling. With the mighty power instantly cut off, and with not even the ordinary
force of gravitation to counteract the force DuQuesne was exerting, his own muscular effort
hurled him up toward the center of the car and against the instrument-board. The switch, still
in his grasp, was again closed. His shoulder crashed against the levers which controlled the
direction of the bar, swinging it through a wide arc. As the ship darted off in the new direction
with all its old acceleration, he was hurled against the instrument board, tearing one end
loose from its supports and falling unconscious to the floor on the other side. After a time,
which seemed like an eternity, Dorothy and the other girl felt their senses slowly leave them.

With four unconscious passengers, the space-car hurtled through empty space, its already inconceivable
velocity being augmented every second by a quantity bringing its velocity near to that of light,
driven onward by the incredible power of the disintegrating copper bar.

       *       *       *       *       *

Seaton had gone only a short distance from his sweetheart's home when over the purring of his
engine he thought he heard Dorothy's voice raised in a scream. He did not wait to make sure,
but whirled his machine about and the purring changed instantly to a staccato roar as he threw
open the throttle and advanced the spark. Gravel flew from beneath his skidding wheels as he
negotiated the turn into the Vaneman grounds at suicidal speed. But with all his haste he arrived
upon the scene just in time to see the door of the space-car close. Before he could reach it
the vessel disappeared, with nothing to mark its departure save a violent whirl of grass and
sod, uprooted and carried far into the air by the vacuum of its wake. To the excited tennis-players
and the screaming mother of the abducted girl it seemed as though the great metal ball had
vanished utterly--only Seaton, knowing what to expect, saw the line it made in the air and
saw for an instant a minute dot in the sky before it disappeared.

Interrupting the clamor of the young people, each of whom was trying to tell him what had happened,
he spoke to Mrs. Vaneman.

"Mother, Dottie's all right," he said rapidly but gently. "Steel's got her, but they won't
keep her long. Don't worry, we'll get her. It may take a week or it may take a year, but we'll
bring her back," and leaping upon his motorcycle, he shattered all the speed laws on his way
to Crane's house.

"Mart!" he yelled, rushing into the shop, "they've got Dottie, in a bus made from our plans.
Let's go!" as he started on a run for the testing shed.

"Wait a minute!" crisply shouted Crane. "Don't go off half-cocked. What is your plan?"

"Plan, hell!" barked the enraged chemist. "Chase 'em!"

"Which way did they go, and when?"

"Straight up, full power, twenty minutes ago."

"Too long ago. Straight up has changed its direction several degrees since then. They may have
covered a million miles, or they may have come back and landed next door. Sit down and think--we
need all your brains now."

Regaining his self-possession as the wisdom of his friend's advice came home to him, Seaton
sat down and pulled out his pipe. There was a tense silence for an instant. Then he leaped
to his feet and darted into his room, returning with an object-compass whose needle pointed upward.

"DuQuesne did it," he cried exultantly. "This baby is still looking right at him. Now let's
go--make it snappy!"

"Not yet. We should find out how far away they are; that may give us an idea."

Suiting action to word, he took up his stopwatch and set the needle swinging. They watched
it with strained faces as second after second went by and it still continued to swing. When
it had come to rest Crane read his watch and made a rapid calculation.

"About three hundred and fifty million miles," he stated. "Clear out of our solar system already,
and from the distance covered he must have had a constant acceleration so as to approximate
the velocity of light, and he is still going with full...."

"But nothing can possibly go that fast, Mart, it's impossible. How about Einstein's theory?"

"That is a theory, this measurement of distance is a fact, as you know from our tests."

"That's right. Another good theory gone to pot. But how do you account for his distance? D'you
suppose he's lost control?"

"He must have. I do not believe that he would willingly stand that acceleration, nor that he
would have gone that far of his own accord. Do you?"

"I sure don't. We don't know how big a bar they are carrying, so we can't estimate how long
it is going to take us to catch them. But let's not waste any more time, Mart. For Cat's sake,
let's get busy!"

"We have only those four bars, Dick--two for each unit. Do you think that will be enough? Think
of how far we may have to go, what we may possibly get into, and what it will mean to Dottie
if we fail for lack of power."

Seaton, though furiously eager to be off, paused at this new idea, and half-regretfully he replied:

"We are so far behind them already that I guess a few hours more won't make much difference.
It sure would be disastrous to get out near one of the fixed stars and have our power quit.
I guess you're right, we'd better get a couple more--make it four, then we'll have enough to
chase them half our lives. We'd better load up on grub and X-plosive ammunition, too."

       *       *       *       *       *

While Crane and Shiro carried additional provisions and boxes of cartridges into the "Skylark,"
Seaton once more mounted his motorcycle and sped across the city to the brass foundry. The
manager of the plant took his order, but blandly informed him that there was not that much
copper in the city, that it would be a week or ten days before the order could be filled. Seaton
suggested that they melt up some copper cable and other goods already manufactured, offering
ten times their value, but the manager was obdurate, saying that he could not violate the rule
of priority of orders. Seaton then went to other places, endeavoring to buy scrap copper, trolley
wire, electric cable, anything made of the ruddy metal, but found none for sale in quantities
large enough to be of any use. After several hours of fruitless search, he returned home in
a towering rage and explained to Crane, in lurid language, his failure to secure the copper.
The latter was unmoved.

"After you left, it occurred to me that you might not get any. You see, Steel is still watching
us."

Fire shot from Seaton's eyes.

"I'm going to clean up that bunch," he gritted through his teeth as he started straight for
the door.

"Not yet, Dick," Crane remonstrated. "We can go down to Wilson's in a few minutes, and I know
we can get it there if he has it. The "Skylark" is all ready to travel."

No more words were needed. They hurried into the space-car and soon were standing in the office
of the plant in which the vessel had been built. When they had made their wants known, the
iron-master shook his head.

"I'm sorry, Crane, but I have only a few pounds of copper in the shop, and we have no suitable
furnace."

Seaton broke out violently at this, but Crane interrupted him, explaining their inability to
get the metal anywhere else and the urgency of their need. When he had finished, Wilson brought
his fist down upon his desk.

"I'll get it if I have to melt up our dynamos," he roared. "We'll have to rig a crucible, but
we'll have your bars out just as soon as the whole force of this damned scrap-heap can make 'em!"

Calling in his foreman, he bellowed orders, and while automobiles scoured the nearby towns
for scrap copper, the crucible and molds were made ready.

Nearly two days passed before the gleaming copper cylinders were finished. During this time
Crane added to their already complete equipment every article he could conceive of their having
any use for, while Seaton raged up and down the plant in a black fury of impatience. Just before
the bars were ready, they made another reading on the object-compass. Their faces grew tense
and drawn and their hearts turned sick as second followed second and minute followed minute
and the needle still oscillated. Finally, however, it came to rest, and Seaton's voice almost
failed him as he read his figures.

"Two hundred and thirty-five light-years, Mart. They're lost, and still going. Good-bye, old
scout," holding out his hand, "Tell Vaneman that I'll bring her back or else stay out there
myself."

"You must be crazy, Dick. You know I am going."

"Why? No use in both of us taking such a chance. If Dottie's gone, of course I want to go too,
but you don't."

"Nonsense, Dick. Of course this is somewhat farther than we had planned on going for our maiden
voyage, but where is the difference? It is just as safe to go a thousand light-years as only
one, and we have power and food for any contingency. There is no more danger in this trip than
there is in one to Mars. At all events, I am going whether you want me to or not, so save your
breath."

"You lie like a thief, Mart--you know what we are up against as well as I do. But if you insist
on coming along, I'm sure glad to have you."

As their hands met in a crushing grip, the bars were brought up and loaded into the carriers.
Waving good-bye to Wilson, they closed the massive door and took their positions. Seaton adjusted
the bar parallel with the needle of the object-compass, turned on the coil, and advanced the
speed-lever until Crane, reading the pyro-meters, warned him to slow down, as the shell was
heating. Free of the earth's atmosphere, he slowly advanced the lever, one notch at a time,
until he could no longer support the increasing weight of his hand, but had to draw out the
rolling support designed for that emergency. He pushed the lever a few notches farther, and
felt himself forced down violently into the seat. He was now lying at full length, the seat
having automatically moved upward so that his hand still controlled the lever. Still he kept
putting on more power, until the indicator showed that more than three-quarters of the power
was in operation and he felt that he could stand but little more.

"How are you making it, Mart?" he asked, talking with difficulty because of the great weight
of his tongue and jaws.

"All right so far," came the response, in a hesitating, almost stammering voice, "but I do
not know how much more I can take. If you can stand it, go ahead."

"This is enough for awhile, until we get used to it. Any time you want to rest, tell me and
I'll cut her down."

"Keep her at this for four or five hours. Then cut down until we can walk, so that we can eat
and take another reading on distance. Remember that it will take as long to stop as it does
to get up speed, and that we must be careful not to ram them. There would be nothing left of
either car."

"All right. Talking's too darn much work, I'll talk to you again when we ease down. I sure
am glad we're on our way at last."

CHAPTER IX

Lost In Space

For forty-eight hours the uncontrolled atomic motor dragged the masterless vessel with its
four unconscious passengers through the illimitable reaches of empty space, with an awful and
constantly increasing velocity. When only a few traces of copper remained in the power-plant,
the acceleration began to decrease and the powerful springs began to restore the floor and
the seats to their normal positions. The last particle of copper having been transformed into
energy, the speed of the vessel became constant. Apparently motionless to those inside it,
it was in reality traversing space with a velocity thousands of times greater than that of
light. As the force which had been holding them down was relaxed, the lungs, which had been
able to secure only air enough to maintain faint sparks of life, began to function more normally
and soon all four recovered consciousness, drinking in the life-giving oxygen in a rapid succession
of breaths so deep that it seemed as though their lungs must burst with each inhalation.

DuQuesne was the first to gain control of himself. His first effort to rise to his feet lifted
him from the floor, and he floated lightly to the ceiling, striking it with a gentle bump and
remaining suspended in the air. The others, who had not yet attempted to move, stared at him
in wide-eyed amazement. Reaching out and clutching one of the supporting columns, he drew himself
back to the floor and cautiously removed his leather suit, transferring two heavy automatic
pistols as he did so. By gingerly feeling of his injured body, he discovered that no bones
were broken, although he was terribly bruised. He then glanced around to learn how his companions
were faring. He saw that they were all sitting up, the girls resting, Perkins removing his
aviator's costume.

"Good morning, Doctor DuQuesne. What happened when I kicked your friend?"

DuQuesne smiled.

"Good morning, Miss Vaneman. Several things happened. He fell into the controls, turning on
all the juice. We left shortly afterward. I tried to shut the power off, and in doing so I
balled things up worse than ever. Then I went to sleep, and just woke up."

"Have you any idea where we are?"

"No, but I can make a fair estimate, I think," and glancing at the empty chamber in which the
bar had been, he took out his notebook and pen and figured for a few minutes. As he finished,
he drew himself along by a handrail to one of the windows, then to another. He returned with
a puzzled expression on his face and made a long calculation.

"I don't know exactly what to make of this," he said thoughtfully. "We are so far away from
the earth that even the fixed stars are unrecognizable. The power was on exactly forty-eight
hours, since that is the life of that particular bar under full current. We should still be
close to our own solar system, since it is theoretically impossible to develop any velocity
greater than that of light. But in fact, we have. I know enough about astronomy to recognize
the fixed stars from any point within a light-year or so of the sun, and I can't see a single
familiar star. I never could see how mass could be a function of velocity, and now I am convinced
that it is not. We have been accelerating for forty-eight hours!"

He turned to Dorothy.

"While we were unconscious, Miss Vaneman, we had probably attained a velocity of something
like seven billion four hundred thirteen million miles per second, and that is the approximate
speed at which we are now traveling. We must be nearly six quadrillion miles, and that is a
space of several hundred light-years--away from our solar system, or, more plainly, about six
times as far away from our earth as the North Star is. We couldn't see our sun with a telescope,
even if we knew which way to look for it."

       *       *       *       *       *

At this paralyzing news, Dorothy's face turned white and Margaret Spencer quietly fainted in
her seat.

"Then we can never get back?" asked Dorothy slowly.

At this question, Perkins' self-control gave way and his thin veneer of decency disappeared
completely.

"You got us into this whole thing!" he screamed as he leaped at Dorothy with murderous fury
gleaming in his pale eyes and his fingers curved into talons. Instead of reaching her, however,
he merely sprawled grotesquely in midair, and DuQuesne knocked him clear across the vessel
with one powerful blow of his fist.

"Get back there, you cowardly cur," he said evenly. "Even though we are a long way from home,
try to remember you're a man, at least. One more break like that and I'll throw you out of
the boat. It isn't her fault that we are out here, but our own. The blame for it is a very
small matter, anyway; the thing of importance is to get back as soon as possible."

"But how can we get back?" asked Perkins sullenly from the corner where he was crouching, fear
in every feature. "The power is gone, the controls are wrecked, and we are hopelessly lost
in space."

"Oh, I wouldn't say 'hopelessly,'" returned the other, "I have never been in any situation
yet that I couldn't get out of, and I won't be convinced until I am dead that I can't get out
of this one. We have two extra power bars, we can fix the board, and if I can't navigate us
back close enough to our solar system to find it, I am more of a dub than I think I am. How
about a little bite to eat?"

"Show us where it is!" exclaimed Dorothy. "Now that you mention it, I find that I am starved
to death."

DuQuesne looked at her keenly.

"I admire your nerve, Miss Vaneman. I didn't suppose that that animal over there would show
such a wide streak of yellow, but I was rather afraid that you girls might go to pieces."

"I'm scared blue, of course," Dorothy admitted frankly, "but hysterics won't do any good, and
we simply must get back."

"Certainly, we must and we will," stated DuQuesne calmly. "If you like, you might find something
for us to eat in the galley there, while I see what I can do with this board that I wrecked
with my head. By the way, that cubby-hole there is the apartment reserved for you two ladies.
We are in rather cramped quarters, but I think you will find everything you need."

As Dorothy drew herself along the handrail toward the room designated, accompanied by the other
girl who, though conscious, had paid little attention to anything around her, she could not
help feeling a thrill of admiration for the splendid villain who had abducted her. Calm and
cool, always master of himself, apparently paying no attention to the terrible bruises which
disfigured half his face and doubtless half his body as well, she admitted to herself that
it was only his example, which had enabled her to maintain her self-control in their present
plight. As she crawled over Perkins' discarded suit, she remembered that he had not taken any
weapons from it. After a rapid glance around to assure herself that she was not being watched,
she quickly searched the coat, bringing to light not one, but two pistols, which she thrust
into her pocket. She saw with relief that they were regulation army automatics, with whose
use she was familiar from much target practise with Seaton.

In the room, which was a miniature of the one she had seen on the Skylark, the girls found
clothing, toilet articles, and everything necessary for a long trip. As they were setting themselves
to rights, Dorothy electing to stay in her riding suit, they surveyed each other frankly and
each was reassured by what she saw. Dorothy saw a girl of twenty-two, of her own stature, with
a mass of heavy, wavy black hair. Her eyes, a singularly rich and deep brown, contrasted strangely
with the beautiful ivory of her skin. She was normally a beautiful girl, thought Dorothy, but
her beauty was marred by suffering and privation. Her naturally slender form was thin, her
face was haggard and worn. The stranger broke the silence.

       *       *       *       *       *

"I'm Margaret Spencer," she began abruptly, "former secretary to His Royal Highness, Brookings
of Steel. They swindled my father out of an invention worth millions and he died, broken-hearted.
I got the job to see if I couldn't get enough evidence to convict them, and I had quite a lot
when they caught me. I had some things that they were afraid to lose, and I had them so well
hidden that they couldn't find them, so they kidnapped me to make me give them back. They haven't
dared kill me so far for fear the evidence will show up after my death--which it will. However,
I will be legally dead before long, and then they know the whole thing will come out, so they
have brought me out here to make me talk or kill me. Talking won't do me any good now, though,
and I don't believe it ever would have. They would have killed me after they got the stuff
back, anyway. So you see I, at least, will never get back to the earth alive."

"Cheer up--we'll all get back safely."

"No, we won't. You don't know that man Perkins--if that is his name. I never heard him called
any real name before. He is simply unspeakable--vile--hideous--everything that is base. He
was my jailer, and I utterly loathe and despise him. He is mean and underhanded and tricky--he
reminds me of a slimy, poisonous snake. He will kill me: I know it."

"But how about Doctor DuQuesne? Surely he isn't that kind of man? He wouldn't let him."

"I've never met him before, but from what I heard of him in the office, he's even worse than
Perkins, but in an entirely different way. There's nothing small or mean about him, and I don't
believe he would go out of his way to hurt anyone, as Perkins would. But he is absolutely cold
and hard, a perfect fiend. Where his interests are concerned, there's nothing under the sun,
good or bad, that he won't do. But I'm glad that Perkins had me instead of 'The Doctor,' as
they call him. Perkins raises such a bitter personal feeling, that anybody would rather die
than give up to him in anything. DuQuesne, however, would have tortured me impersonally and
scientifically--cold and self-contained all the while and using the most efficient methods,
and I am sure he would have got it out of me some way. He always gets what he goes after."

"Oh, come, Miss Spencer!" Dorothy interrupted the half-hysterical girl. "You're too hard on
him. Didn't you see him knock Perkins down when he came after me?"

"Well, maybe he has a few gentlemanly instincts, which he uses when he doesn't lose anything
by it. More likely he merely intended to rebuke him for a useless action. He is a firm Pragmatist--anything
that is useful is all right, anything that is useless is a crime. More probably yet, he wants
you left alive. Of course that is his real reason. He went to the trouble of kidnapping you,
so naturally he won't let Perkins or anybody else kill you until he is through with you. Otherwise
he would have let Perkins do anything he wanted to with you, without lifting a finger."

"I can't quite believe that," Dorothy replied, though a cold chill struck at her heart as she
remembered the inhuman crime attributed to this man, and she quailed at the thought of being
in his charge, countless millions of miles from earth, a thought only partly counteracted by
the fact that she was now armed. "He has treated us with every consideration so far, let's
hope for the best. Anyway, I'm sure that we'll get back safely."

"Why so sure? Have you something up your sleeve?"

"No--or yes, in a way I have, though nothing very definite. I'm Dorothy Vaneman, and I am engaged
to the man who discovered the thing that makes this space-car go...."

"That's why they kidnapped you, then--to make him give up all his rights to it. It's like them."

"Yes, I think that's why they did it. But they won't keep me long. Dick Seaton will find me,
I know. I feel it."

"But that's exactly what they want!" cried Margaret excitedly. "In my spying around I heard
a little about this very thing--the name Seaton brings it to my mind. His car is broken in
some way, so that it will kill him the first time he tries to run it."

"That's where they underestimated Dick and his partner. You have heard of Martin Crane, of course?"

"I think I heard his name mentioned in the office, together with Seaton's, but that's all."

"Well, besides other things, Martin is quite a wonderful mechanic, and he found out that our
Skylark was spoiled. So they built another one, a lot bigger, and I am sure that they are following
us, right now."

"But how can they possibly follow us, when we are going so fast and are so far away?" queried
the other girl, once more despondent.

"I don't quite know, but I do know that Dick will find a way. He's simply wonderful. He knows
more now than that Doctor DuQuesne will ever learn in all his life, and he will find us in
a few days. I feel it in my bones. Besides, I picked Perkins' pockets of these two pistols.
Can you shoot an automatic?"

"Yes," replied the other girl, as she seized one of the guns, assured herself that its magazine
was full, and slipped it into her pocket. "I used to practise a lot with my father's. This
makes me feel a whole lot better. And call me Peggy, won't you? It will seem good to hear my
name again. After what I've been through lately, even this trip will be a vacation for me."

"Well, then, cheer up, Peggy dear, we're going to be great friends. Let's go get us all something
to eat. I'm simply starved, and I know you are, too."

       *       *       *       *       *

The presence of the pistol in her pocket and Dorothy's unwavering faith in her lover, lifted
the stranger out of the mood of despair into which the long imprisonment, the brutal treatment,
and the present situation had plunged her, and she was almost cheerful as they drew themselves
along the hand-rail leading to the tiny galley.

"I simply can't get used to the idea of nothing having any weight--look here!" laughed Dorothy,
as she took a boiled ham out of the refrigerator and hung it upon an imaginary hook in the
air, where it remained motionless. "Doesn't it make you feel funny?"

"It is a queer sensation. I feel light, like a toy balloon, and I feel awfully weird inside.
If we have no weight, why does it hurt so when we bump into anything? And when you throw anything,
like the Doctor did Perkins, why does it hit as hard as ever?"

"It's mass or inertia or something like that. A thing has it everywhere, whether it weighs
anything or not. Dick explained it all to me. I understood it when he told me about it, but
I'm afraid it didn't sink in very deep. Did you ever study physics?"

"I had a year of it in college, but it was more or less of a joke. I went to a girls' school,
and all we had to do in physics was to get the credit; we didn't have to learn it."

"Me too. Next time I go to school I'm going to Yale or Harvard or some such place, and I'll
learn so much mathematics and science that I'll have to wear a bandeau to keep my massive intellect
in place."

During this conversation they had prepared a substantial luncheon and had arranged it daintily
upon two large trays, in spite of the difficulty caused by the fact that nothing would remain
in place by its own weight. The feast prepared, Dorothy took her tray from the table as carefully
as she could, and saw the sandwiches and bottles start to float toward the ceiling. Hastily
inverting the tray above the escaping viands, she pushed them back down upon the table. In
doing so she lifted herself clear from the floor, as she had forgotten to hold herself down.

"What'll we do, anyway?" she wailed when she had recovered her position. "Everything wants
to fly all over the place!"

"Put another tray on top of it and hold them together," suggested Margaret. "I wish we had
a birdcage. Then we could open the door and grab a sandwich as it flies out."

By covering the trays the girls finally carried the luncheon out into the main compartment,
where they gave DuQuesne and Perkins one of the trays and all fell to eating hungrily. DuQuesne
paused with a glint of amusement in his one sound eye as he saw Dorothy trying to pour ginger
ale out of a bottle.

"It can't be done, Miss Vaneman. You'll have to drink it through a straw. That will work, since
our air pressure is normal. Be careful not to choke on it, though; your swallowing will have
to be all muscular out here. Gravity won't help you. Or wait a bit--I have the control board
fixed and it will be a matter of only a few minutes to put in another bar and get enough acceleration
to take the place of gravity."

He placed one of the extra power bars in the chamber and pushed the speed lever into the first
notch, and there was a lurch of the whole vessel as it swung around the bar so that the floor
was once more perpendicular to it. He took a couple of steps, returned, and advanced the lever
another notch.

"There that's about the same as gravity. Now we can act like human beings and eat in comfort."

"That's a wonderful relief, Doctor!" cried Dorothy. "Are we going back toward the earth?"

"Not yet. I reversed the bar, but we will have to use up all of this one before we can even
start back. Until this bar is gone we will merely be slowing down."

       *       *       *       *       *

As the meal progressed, Dorothy noticed that DuQuesne's left arm seemed almost helpless, and
that he ate with great difficulty because of his terribly bruised face. As soon as they had
removed the trays she went into her room, where she had seen a small medicine chest, and brought
out a couple of bottles.

"Lie down here, Doctor DuQuesne," she commanded. "I'm going to apply a little first-aid to
the injured. Arnica and iodine are all I can find, but they'll help a little."

"I'm all right," began the scientist, but at her imperious gesture he submitted, and she bathed
his battered features with the healing lotion and painted the worst bruises with iodine.

"I see your arm is lame. Where does it hurt?"

"Shoulder's the worst. I rammed it through the board when we started out."

He opened his shirt at the throat and bared his shoulder, and Dorothy gasped--as much at the
size and power of the muscles displayed, as at the extent and severity of the man's injuries.
Stepping into the gallery, she brought out hot water and towels and gently bathed away the
clotted blood that had been forced through the skin.

"Massage it a little with the arnica as I move the arm," he directed coolly, and she did so,
pityingly. He did not wince and made no sign of pain, but she saw beads of perspiration appear
upon his face, and wondered at his fortitude.

"That's fine," he said gratefully as she finished, and a peculiar expression came over his
face. "It feels one hundred per cent better already. But why do you do it? I should think you
would feel like crowning me with that basin instead of playing nurse."

"Efficiency," she replied with a smile. "I'm taking a leaf out of your own book. You are our
chief engineer, you know, and it won't do to have you laid up."

"That's a logical explanation, but it doesn't go far enough," he rejoined, still studying her
intently. She did not reply, but turned to Perkins.

"How are you, Mr. Perkins? Do you require medical attention?"

"No," growled Perkins from the seat in which he had crouched immediately after eating. "Keep
away from me, or I'll cut your heart out!"

"Shut up!" snapped DuQuesne. "Remember what I said?"

"I haven't done anything," snarled the other.

"I said I would throw you out if you made another break," DuQuesne informed him evenly, "and
I meant it. If you can't talk decently, keep still. Understand that you are to keep off Miss
Vaneman, words and actions. I am in charge of her, and I will put up with no interference whatever.
This is your last warning."

"How about Spencer, then?"

"I have nothing to say about her, she's not mine," responded DuQuesne with a shrug.

An evil light appeared in Perkins' eyes and he took out a wicked-looking knife and began to
strop it carefully upon the leather of the seat, glaring at his victim the while.

"Well, I have something to say...." blazed Dorothy, but she was silenced by a gesture from
Margaret, who calmly took the pistol from her pocket, jerked the slide back, throwing a cartridge
into the chamber, and held the weapon up on one finger, admiring it from all sides.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Don't worry about his knife. He has been sharpening it for my benefit for the last month.
He doesn't mean anything by it."

At this unexpected show of resistance, Perkins stared at her for an instant, then glanced at
his coat.

"Yes, this was yours, once. You needn't bother about picking up your coat, they're both gone.
You might be tempted to throw that knife, so drop it on the floor and kick it over to me before
I count three.

"One." The heavy pistol steadied into line with his chest and her finger tightened on the trigger.

"Two." He obeyed and she picked up the knife. He turned to DuQuesne, who had watched the scene
unmoved, a faint smile upon his saturnine face.

"Doctor!" he cried, shaking with fear. "Why don't you shoot her or take that gun away from
her? Surely you don't want to see me murdered?"

"Why not?" replied DuQuesne calmly. "It is nothing to me whether she kills you or you kill
her. You brought it on yourself by your own carelessness. Any man with brains doesn't leave
guns lying around within reach of prisoners, and a blind man could have seen Miss Vaneman getting
your hardware."

"You saw her take them and didn't warn me?" croaked Perkins.

"Why should I warn you? If you can't take care of your own prisoner she earns her liberty,
as far as I am concerned. I never did like your style, Perkins, especially your methods of
handling--or rather mishandling--women. You could have made her give up the stuff she recovered
from that ass Brookings inside of an hour, and wouldn't have had to kill her afterward, either."

"How?" sneered the other. "If you are so good at that kind of thing, why didn't you try it
on Seaton and Crane?"

"There are seven different methods to use on a woman like Miss Spencer, each of which will
produce the desired result. The reason I did not try them on either Seaton or Crane is that
they would have failed. Your method of indirect action is probably the only one that will succeed.
That is why I adopted it."

"Well, what are you going to do about it?" shrieked Perkins. "Are you going to sit there and
lecture all day?"

"I am going to do nothing whatever," answered the scientist coldly. "If you had any brains
you would see that you are in no danger. Miss Spencer will undoubtedly kill you if you attack
her--not otherwise. That is an Anglo-Saxon weakness."

"Did you see me take the pistols?" queried Dorothy.

"Certainly. I'm not blind. You have one of them in your right coat pocket now."

"Then why didn't you, or don't you, try to take it away from me?" she asked in wonder.

"If I had objected to your having them, you would never have got them. If I didn't want you
to have a gun now, I would take it away from you. You know that, don't you?" and his black
eyes stared into her violet ones with such calm certainty of his ability that she felt her
heart sink.

"Yes," she admitted finally, "I believe you could--that is, unless I were angry enough to shoot
you."

"That wouldn't help you. I can shoot faster and straighter than you can, and would shoot it
out of your hand. However, I have no objection to your having the gun, since it is no part
of my plan to offer you any further indignity of any kind. Even if you had the necessary coldness
of nerve or cruelty of disposition--of which I have one, Perkins the other, and you neither--you
wouldn't shoot me now, because you can't get back to the earth without me. After we get back
I will take the guns away from both of you if I think it desirable. In the meantime, play with
them all you please."

"Has Perkins any more knives or guns or things in his room?" demanded Dorothy.

"How should I know?" indifferently; then, as both girls started for Perkins' room he ordered
brusquely:

"Sit down, Miss Vaneman. Let them fight it out. Perkins has his orders to lay off you--you
lay off him. I'm not taking any chances of getting you hurt, that's one reason I wanted you
armed. If he gets gay, shoot him; otherwise, hands off completely."

Dorothy threw up her head in defiance, but meeting his cold stare she paused irresolutely and
finally sat down, biting her lips in anger, while the other girl went on.

"That's better. She doesn't need any help to whip that yellow dog. He's whipped already. He
never would think of fighting unless the odds were three to one in his favor."

       *       *       *       *       *

When Margaret had returned from a fruitless search of Perkins' room and had assured herself
that he had no more weapons concealed about his person, she thrust the pistol back into her
pocket and sat down.

"That ends that," she declared. "I guess you will be good now, won't you, Mr. Perkins?"

"Yes," that worthy muttered. "I have to be, now that you've got the drop on me and DuQuesne's
gone back on me. But wait until we get back! I'll get you then, you...."

"Stop right there!" sharply. "There's nothing I would rather do than shoot you right now, if
you give me the slightest excuse, such as that name you were about to call me. Now go ahead!"

DuQuesne broke the silence that followed.

"Well, now that the battle is over, and since we are fed and rested, I suggest that we slow
down a bit and get ready to start back. Pick out comfortable seats, everybody, and I'll shoot
a little more juice through that bar."

Seating himself before the instrument board, he advanced the speed lever slowly until nearly
three-quarters of the full power was on, as much as he thought the others could stand.

For sixty hours he drove the car, reducing the acceleration only at intervals during which
they ate and walked about their narrow quarters in order to restore the blood to circulation
in their suffering bodies. The power was not reduced for sleep; everyone slept as best he could.

Dorothy and Margaret talked together at every opportunity, and a real intimacy grew up between
them. Perkins was for the most part sullenly quiet, knowing himself despised by all the others
and having no outlet here for his particular brand of cleverness. DuQuesne was always occupied
with his work and only occasionally addressed a remark to one or another of the party, except
during meals. At those periods of general recuperation, he talked easily and well upon many
topics. There was no animosity in his bearing nor did he seem to perceive any directed toward
himself, but when any of the others ventured to infringe upon his ideas of how discipline should
be maintained, DuQuesne's reproof was merciless. Dorothy almost liked him, but Margaret insisted
that she considered him worse than ever.

When the bar was exhausted, DuQuesne lifted the sole remaining cylinder into place.

"We should be nearly stationary with respect to the earth," he remarked. "Now we will start back."

"Why, it felt as though we were picking up speed for the last three days!" exclaimed Margaret.

"Yes, it feels that way because we have nothing to judge by. Slowing down in one direction
feels exactly like starting up in the opposite one. There is no means of knowing whether we
are standing still, going away from the earth, or going toward it, since we have nothing stationary
upon which to make observations. However, since the two bars were of exactly the same size
and were exerted in opposite directions except for a few minutes after we left the earth, we
are nearly stationary now. I will put on power until this bar is something less than half gone,
then coast for three or four days. By the end of that time we should be able to recognize our
solar system from the appearance of the fixed stars."

He again advanced the lever, and for many hours silence filled the car as it hurtled through
space. DuQuesne, waking up from a long nap, saw that the bar no longer pointed directly toward
the top of the ship, perpendicular to the floor, but was inclined at a sharp angle. He reduced
the current, and felt the lurch of the car as it swung around the bar, increasing the angle
many degrees. He measured the angle carefully and peered out of all the windows on one side
of the car. Returning to the bar after a time, he again measured the angle, and found that
it had increased greatly.

"What's the matter, Doctor DuQuesne?" asked Dorothy, who had also been asleep.

"We are being deflected from our course. You see the bar doesn't point straight up any more?
Of course the direction of the bar hasn't changed, the car has swung around it."

"What does that mean?"

"We have come close enough to some star so that its attraction swings the bottom of the car
around. Normally, you know, the bottom of the car follows directly behind the bar. It doesn't
mean much yet except that we are being drawn away from our straight line, but if the attraction
gets much stronger it may make us miss our solar system completely. I have been looking for
the star in question, but can't see it yet. We'll probably pull away from it very shortly."

       *       *       *       *       *

He threw on the power, and for some time watched the bar anxiously, expecting to see it swing
back into the vertical, but the angle continually increased. He again reduced the current and
searched the heavens for the troublesome body.

"Do you see it yet?" asked Dorothy with concern.

"No, there's apparently nothing near enough to account for all this deflection."

He took out a pair of large night-glasses and peered through them for several minutes.

"Good God! It's a dead sun, and we're nearly onto it! It looks as large as our moon!"

Springing to the board, he whirled the bar into the vertical. He took down a strange instrument,
went to the bottom window, and measured the apparent size of the dark star. Then, after cautioning
the rest of the party to sit tight, he advanced the lever farther than it had been before.
After half an hour he again slackened the pace and made another observation, finding to his
astonishment that the dark mass had almost doubled its apparent size! Dorothy, noting his expression,
was about to speak, but he forestalled her.

"We lost ground, instead of gaining, that spurt," he remarked, as he hastened to his post.
"It must be inconceivably large, to exert such an enormous attractive force at this distance.
We'll have to put on full power. Hang onto yourselves as best you can."

He then pushed the lever out to its last notch and left it there until the bar was nearly gone,
only to find that the faint disk of the monster globe was even larger than before, being now
visible to the unaided eye. Revived, the three others saw it plainly--a great dim circle, visible
as is the dark portion of the new moon--and, the power shut off, they felt themselves falling
toward it with sickening speed. Perkins screamed with mad fear and flung himself grovelling
upon the floor. Margaret, her nerves still unstrung, clutched at her heart with both hands.
Dorothy, though her eyes looked like great black holes in her white face, looked DuQuesne in
the eye steadily.

"This is the end, then?"

"Not yet," he replied in a calm and level voice. "The end will not come for a good many hours,
as I have calculated that it will take at least two days, probably more, to fall the distance
we have to go. We have all that time in which to think out a way of escape."

"Won't the outer repulsive shell keep up from striking it, or at least break the force of our
fall?"

"No. It was designed only as protection from meteorites and other small bodies. It is heavy
enough to swing us away from a small planet, but it will be used up long before we strike."

He lighted a cigarette and sat at case, as though in his own study, his brow wrinkled in thought
as he made calculations in his notebook. Finally he rose to his feet.

"There's only one chance that I can see. That is to gather up every scrap of copper we have
and try to pull ourselves far enough out of line so that we will take an hyperbolic orbit around
that body instead of falling into it."

"What good will that do us?" asked Margaret, striving for self-control. "We will starve to
death finally, won't we?"

"Not necessarily. That will give us time to figure out something else."

"You won't have to figure out anything else, Doctor," stated Dorothy positively. "If we miss
that moon, Dick and Martin will find us before very long."

"Not in this life. If they tried to follow us, they're both dead before now."

"That's where even you are wrong!" she flashed at him. "They knew you were wrecking our machine,
so they built another one, a good one. And they know a lot of things about this new metal that
you have never dreamed of, since they were not in the plans you stole."

       *       *       *       *       *

DuQuesne went directly to the heart of the matter, paying no attention to her barbed shafts.

"Can they follow us through space without seeing us?" he demanded.

"Yes--or at least, I think they can."

"How do they do it?"

"I don't know--I wouldn't tell you if I did."

"You'll tell if you know," he declared, his voice cutting like a knife. "But that can wait
until after we get out of this. The thing to do now is to dodge that world."

He searched the vessel for copper, ruthlessly tearing out almost everything that contained
the metal, hammering it flat and throwing it into the power-plant. He set the bar at right
angles to the line of their fall and turned on the current. When the metal was exhausted, he
made another series of observations upon the body toward which they were falling, and reported
quietly:

"We made a lot of distance, but not enough. Everything goes in, this time."

He tore out the single remaining light-wire, leaving the car in darkness save for the diffused
light of his electric torch, and broke up the only remaining motor. He then took his almost
priceless Swiss watch, his heavy signet ring, his scarf pin, and the cartridges from his pistol,
and added them to the collection. Flashing his lamp upon Perkins, he relieved him of everything
he had which contained copper.

"I think I have a few pennies in my pocketbook," suggested Dorothy.

"Get 'em," he directed briefly, and while she was gone he searched Margaret, without result
save for the cartridges in her pistol, as she had no jewelry remaining after her imprisonment.
Dorothy returned and handed him everything she had found.

"I would like to keep this ring," she said slowly, pointing to a slender circlet of gold set
with a solitaire diamond, "if you think there is any chance of us getting clear."

"Everything goes that has any copper in it," he said coldly, "and I am glad to see that Seaton
is too good a chemist to buy any platinum jewelry. You may keep the diamond, though," as he
wrenched the jewel out of its setting and returned it to her.

He threw all the metal into the central chamber and the vessel gave a tremendous lurch as the
power was again applied. It was soon spent, however, and after the final observation, the others
waiting in breathless suspense for him to finish his calculations, he made his curt announcement.

"Not enough."

Perkins, his mind weakened by the strain of the last few days, went completely insane at the
words. With a wild howl he threw himself at the unmoved scientist, who struck him with the
butt of his pistol as he leaped, the mighty force of DuQuesne's blow crushing his skull like
an eggshell and throwing him backward to the opposite side of the vessel. Margaret lay in her
seat in a dead faint. Dorothy and DuQuesne looked at each other in the feeble light of the
torch. To the girl's amazement, the man was as calm as though he were safe in his own house,
and she made a determined effort to hold herself together.

"What next, Doctor DuQuesne?"

"I don't know. We have a couple of days yet, at least. I'll have to study awhile."

"In that time Dick will find us, I know."

"Even if they do find us in time, which I doubt, what good will it do? It simply means that
they will go with us instead of saving us, for of course they can't pull away, since we couldn't.
I hope they don't find us, but locate this star in time to keep away from it."

"Why?" she gasped. "You have been planning to kill both of them! I should think you would be
delighted to take them with us?"

"Far from it. Please try to be logical. I intended to remove them because they stood in the
way of my developing this new metal. If I am to be out of the way--and frankly, I see very
little chance of getting out of this--I hope that Seaton goes ahead with it. It is the greatest
discovery the world has ever known, and if both Seaton and I, the only two men in the world
who know how to handle it, drop out, it will be lost for perhaps hundreds of years."

"If Dick's finding us means that he must go, too, of course I hope that he won't find us, but
I don't believe that. I simply know that he could get us away from here."

She continued more slowly, almost speaking to herself, her heart sinking with her voice:

"He is following us, and he won't stop even if he does see this dead star and knows that he
can't get away. We will die together."

"There's no denying the fact that our situation is critical, but you know a man isn't dead
until after his heart stops beating. We have two whole days yet, and in that time, I can probably
dope out some way of getting away from here."

"I hope so," she replied, keeping her voice from breaking only by a great effort. "But go ahead
with your doping. I'm worn out." She drew herself down upon one of the seats and stared at
the ceiling, fighting to restrain an almost overpowering impulse to scream.

Thus the hours wore by--Perkins dead; Margaret still unconscious; Dorothy lying in her seat,
her thoughts a formless prayer, buoyed up only by her faith in God and in her lover; DuQuesne
self-possessed, smoking innumerable cigarettes, his keen mind grappling with its most desperate
problem, grimly fighting until the very last instant of life--while the powerless space-car
fell with an appalling velocity, faster and faster; falling toward that cold and desolate monster
of the heaven.

CHAPTER X

The Rescue

Seaton and Crane drove the Skylark in the direction indicated by the unwavering object-compass
with the greatest acceleration they could stand, each man taking a twelve-hour watch at the
instrument board.

Now, indeed, did the Skylark justify the faith of her builders, and the two inventors, with
an exultant certainty of their success, flew out beyond man's wildest imaginings. Had it not
been for the haunting fear for Dorothy's safety, the journey would have been one of pure triumph,
and even that anxiety did not prevent a profound joy in the enterprise.

"If that misguided mutt thinks he can pull off a stunt like that and get away with it, he's
got another think coming," asserted Seaton, after making a reading on the other car after several
days of the flight. "He went off half-cocked this time, for sure, and we've got him foul. We'd
better put on some negative pretty soon hadn't we, Mart? Only a little over a hundred light-years
now."

Crane nodded agreement and Seaton continued:

"It'll take as long to stop, of course, as it has taken to get out here, and if we ram them--GOOD
NIGHT! Let's figure it out as nearly as we can."

They calculated their own speed, and that of the other vessel, as shown by the various readings
taken, and applied just enough negative acceleration to slow the Skylark down to the speed
of the other space-car when they should come up with it. They smiled at each other in recognition
of the perfect working of the mechanism when the huge vessel had spun, with a sickening lurch,
through a complete half-circle, the instant the power was reversed. Each knew that they were
actually traveling in a direction that to them seemed "down," but with a constantly diminishing
velocity, even though they seemed to be still going "up" with an increasing speed.

Until nearly the end of the calculated time the two took turns as before, but as the time of
meeting drew near both men were on the alert, taking readings on the object-compass every few
minutes. Finally Crane announced:

"We are almost on them, Dick. They are so close that it is almost impossible to time the needle--less
than ten thousand miles."

Seaton gradually increased the retarding force until the needle showed that they were very
close to the other vessel and maintaining a constant distance from it. He then shut off the
power, and both men hurried to the bottom window to search for the fleeing ship with their
powerful night-glasses. They looked at each other in amazement as they felt themselves falling
almost directly downward, with an astounding acceleration.

"What do you make of it, Dick?" asked Crane calmly, as he brought his glasses to his eyes and
stared out into the black heavens, studded with multitudes of brilliant and unfamiliar stars.

"I don't make it at all, Mart. By the feel, I should say we were falling toward something that
would make our earth look like a pin-head. I remember now that I noticed that the bus was getting
a little out of plumb with the bar all this last watch. I didn't pay much attention to it,
as I couldn't see anything out of the way. Nothing but a sun could be big enough to raise all
this disturbance, and I can't see any close enough to be afraid of, can you?"

"No, and I cannot see the Steel space-car, either. Look sharp."

"Of course," Seaton continued to argue as he peered out into the night, "it is theoretically
possible that a heavenly body can exist large enough so that it could exert even this much
force and still appear no larger than an ordinary star, but I don't believe it is probable.
Give me three or four minutes of visual angle and I'll believe anything, but none of these
stars are big enough to have any visual angle at all. Furthermore...."

"There is at least half a degree of visual angle!" broke in his friend intensely. "Just to
the left of that constellation that looks so much like a question mark. It is not bright, but
dark, like a very dark moon--barely perceptible."

Seaton pointed his glass eagerly in the direction indicated.

"Great Cat!" he ejaculated. "I'll say that's some moon! Wouldn't that rattle your slats? And
there's DuQuesne's bus, too, on the right edge. Get it?"

As they stood up, Seaton's mood turned to one of deadly earnestness, and a grave look came
over Crane's face as the seriousness of their situation dawned upon them. Trained mathematicians
both, they knew instantly that that unknown world was of inconceivable mass, and that their
chance of escape was none too good, even should they abandon the other craft to its fate. Seaton
stared at Crane, his fists clenched and drops of perspiration standing on his forehead. Suddenly,
with agony in his eyes and in his voice, he spoke.

"Mighty slim chance of getting away if we go through with it, old man.... Hate like the devil....
Have no right to ask you to throw yourself away, too."

"Enough of that, Dick. You had nothing to do with my coming: you could not have kept me away.
We will see it through."

Their hands met in a fierce clasp, broken by Seaton, as he jumped to the levers with an intense:

"Well, let's get busy!"

In a few minutes they had reduced the distance until they could plainly see the other vessel,
a small black circle against the faintly luminous disk. As it leaped into clear relief in the
beam of his powerful searchlight, Seaton focused the great attractor upon the fugitive car
and threw in the lever which released the full force of that mighty magnet, while Crane attracted
the attention of the vessel's occupants by means of a momentary burst of solid machine-gun
bullets, which he knew would glance harmlessly off the steel hull.

       *       *       *       *       *

After an interminable silence, DuQuesne drew himself out of his seat. He took a long inhalation,
deposited the butt of his cigarette carefully in his ash tray, and made his way to his room.
He returned with three heavy fur suits provided with air helmets, two of which he handed to
the girls, who were huddled in a seat with their arms around each other. These suits were the
armor designed by Crane for use in exploring the vacuum and the intense cold of dead worlds.
Air-tight, braced with fine steel netting, and supplied with air at normal pressure from small
tanks by automatic valves, they made their wearers independent of surrounding conditions of
pressure and temperature.

"The next thing to do," DuQuesne stated calmly, "is to get the copper off the outside of the
ship. That is the last resort, as it robs us of our only safeguard against meteorites, but
this is the time for last-resort measures. I'm going after that copper. Put these suits on,
as our air will leave as soon as I open the door, and practically an absolute vacuum and equally
absolute zero will come in."

As he spoke, the ship was enveloped in a blinding glare and they were thrown flat as the vessel
slowed down in its terrific fall. The thought flashed across DuQuesne's mind that they had
already entered the atmosphere of that monster globe and were being slowed down and set afire
by its friction, but he dismissed it as quickly as it had come--the light in that case would
be the green of copper, not this bluish-white. His next thought was that there had been a collision
of meteors in the neighborhood, and that their retardation was due to the outer coating. While
these thoughts were flickering through his mind, they heard an insistent metallic tapping,
which DuQuesne recognized instantly.

"A machine-gun!" he blurted in amazement. "How in...."

"It's Dick!" screamed Dorothy, with flashing eyes. "He's found us, just as I knew he would.
You couldn't beat Dick and Martin in a thousand years!"

The tension under which they had been laboring so long suddenly released, the two girls locked
their arms around each other in a half-hysterical outburst of relief. Margaret's meaningless
words and Dorothy's incoherent praises of her lover and Crane mingled with their racking sobs
as each fought to recover self-possession.

DuQuesne had instantly mounted to the upper window. Throwing back the cover, he flashed his
torch rapidly. The glare of the searchlight was snuffed out and he saw a flashing light spell
out in dots and dashes:

"Can you read Morse?"

"Yes," he signalled back. "Power gone, drifting into...."

"We know it. Will you resist?"

"No."

"Have you fur pressure-suits?"

"Yes."

"Put them on. Shut off your outer coating. Will touch so your upper door against our lower.
Open, transfer quick."

"O. K."

       *       *       *       *       *

Hastily returning to the main compartment, he briefly informed the girls as to what had happened.
All three donned the suits and stationed themselves at the upper opening. Rapidly, but with
unerring precision, the two ships were brought into place and held together by the attractor.
As the doors were opened, there was a screaming hiss as the air of the vessels escaped through
the narrow crack between them. The passengers saw the moisture in the air turn into snow, and
saw the air itself first liquefy and then freeze into a solid coating upon the metal around
the orifices at the touch of the frightful cold outside--the absolute zero of interstellar
space, about four hundred sixty degrees below zero in the every-day scale of temperature. The
moisture of their breath condensed upon the inside of the double glasses of their helmets,
rendering sight useless.

Dorothy pushed the other girl ahead of her. DuQuesne seized her and tossed her lightly through
the doorway in such a manner that she would not touch the metal, which would have frozen instantly
anything coming into contact with it. Seaton was waiting. Feeling a woman's slender form in
his arms, he crushed her to him in a mighty embrace, and was astonished to feel movements of
resistance, and to hear a strange, girlish voice cry out:

"Don't! It's me! Dorothy's next!"

Releasing her abruptly, he passed her on to Martin and turned just in time to catch his sweetheart,
who, knowing that he would be there and recognizing his powerful arms at the first touch, returned
his embrace with a fierce intensity which even he had never suspected that she could exert.
They stood motionless, locked in each other's arms, while DuQuesne dove through the opening
and snapped the door shut behind him.

The air-pressure and temperature back to normal, the cumbersome suits were hastily removed,
and Seaton's lips met Dorothy's in a long, clinging caress. DuQuesne's cold, incisive voice
broke the silence.

"Every second counts. I would suggest that we go somewhere."

"Just a minute!" snapped Crane. "Dick, what shall we do with this murderer?"

Seaton had forgotten DuQuesne utterly in the joy of holding his sweetheart in his arms, but
at his friend's words, he faced about and his face grew stern.

"By rights, we ought to chuck him back into his own tub and let him go to the devil," he said
savagely, doubling his fists and turning swiftly.

"No, no, Dick," remonstrated Dorothy, seizing his arm. "He treated us very well, and saved
my life once. Anyway, you mustn't kill him."

"No, I suppose not," grudgingly assented her lover, "and I won't, either, unless he gives me
at least half an excuse."

"We might iron him to a post?" suggested Crane, doubtfully.

"I think there's a better way," replied Seaton. "He may be able to work his way. His brain
hits on all twelve, and he's strong as a bull. Our chance of getting back isn't a certainty,
as you know." He turned to DuQuesne.

"I've heard that your word is good."

"It has never been broken."

"Will you give your word to act as one of the party, for the good of us all, if we don't iron you?"

"Yes--until we get back to the earth. Provided, of course, that I reserve the right to escape
at any time between now and then if I wish to and can do so without injuring the vessel or
any member of the party in any way."

"Agreed. Let's get busy--we're altogether too close to that dud there to suit me. Sit tight,
everybody, we're on our way!" he cried, as he turned to the board, applied one notch of power,
and shut off the attractor. The Skylark slowed down a trifle in its mad fall, the other vessel
continued on its way--a helpless hulk, manned by a corpse, falling to destruction upon the
bleak wastes of a desert world.

"Hold on!" said DuQuesne sharply. "Your power is the same as mine was, in proportion to your
mass, isn't it?"

"Yes."

"Then our goose is cooked. I couldn't pull away from it with everything I had, couldn't even
swing out enough to make an orbit, either hyperbolic or elliptical around it. With a reserve
bar you will be able to make an orbit, but you can't get away from it."

"Thanks for the dope. That saves our wasting some effort. Our power-plant can be doubled up
in emergencies, thanks to Martin's cautious old bean. We'll simply double her up and go away
from here."

       *       *       *       *       *

"There is one thing we didn't consider quite enough," said Crane, thoughtfully. "I started
to faint back there before the full power of even one motor was in use. With the motor doubled,
each of us will be held down by a force of many tons--we would all be helpless."

"Yes," added Dorothy, with foreboding in her eyes, "we were all unconscious on the way out,
except Dr. DuQuesne."

"Well, then, Blackie and I, as the huskiest members of the party, will give her the juice until
only one of us is left with his eyes open. If that isn't enough to pull us clear, we'll have
to give her the whole works and let her ramble by herself after we all go out. How about it,
Blackie?" unconsciously falling into the old Bureau nickname. "Do you think we can make it
stop at unconsciousness with double power on?"

DuQuesne studied the two girls carefully.

"With oxygen in the helmets instead of air, we all may be able to stand it. These special cushions
keep the body from flattening out, as it normally would under such a pressure. The unconsciousness
is simply a suffocation caused by the lateral muscles being unable to lift the ribs--in other
words, the air-pumps aren't strong enough for the added work put upon them. At least we stand
a chance this way. We may live through the pressure while we are pulling away, and we certainly
shall die if we don't pull away."

After a brief consultation, the men set to work with furious haste. While Crane placed extra
bars in each of the motors and DuQuesne made careful observations upon the apparent size of
the now plainly visible world toward which they were being drawn so irresistibly, Seaton connected
the helmets with the air-and oxygen-tanks through a valve upon the board, by means of which
he could change at will the oxygen content of the air they breathed. He then placed the strange
girl, who seemed dazed by the frightful sensation of their never-ending fall, upon one of the
seats, fitted the cumbersome helmet upon her head, strapped her carefully into place, and turned
to Dorothy. In an instant they were in each other's arms. He felt her labored breathing and
the wild beating of her heart, pressed so closely to his, and saw the fear of the unknown in
the violet depths of her eyes, but she looked at him unflinchingly.

"Dick, sweetheart, if this is good-bye...."

He interrupted her with a kiss.

"It isn't good-bye yet, Dottie mine. This is merely a trial effort, to see what we will have
to do to get away. Next time will be the time to worry."

"I'm not worried, really ... but in case ... you see ... I ... we ..."

The gray eyes softened and misted over as he pressed his cheek to hers.

"I understand, sweetheart," he whispered. "This is not good-bye, but if we don't pull through
we'll go together, and that is what we both want."

As Crane and DuQuesne finished their tasks, Seaton fitted his sweetheart's helmet, placed her
tenderly upon the seat, buckled the heavy restraining straps about her slender body, and donned
his own helmet. He took his place at the main instrument board, DuQuesne stationing himself
at the other.

"What did you read on it, Blackie?" asked Seaton.

"Two degrees, one minute, twelve seconds diameter," replied DuQuesne. "Altogether too close
for comfort. How shall we apply the power? One of us must stay awake, or we'll go on as long
as the bars last."

"You put on one notch, then I'll put on one. We can feel the bus jump with each notch. We'll
keep it up until one of us is so far gone that he can't raise the bar--the one that raises
last will have to let the ship run for thirty minutes or an hour, then cut down his power.
Then the other fellow will revive and cut his off, for an observation. How's that?"

"All right."

       *       *       *       *       *

They took their places, and Seaton felt the vessel slow down in its horrible fall as DuQuesne
threw his lever into the first notch. He responded instantly by advancing his own, and notch
after notch the power applied to the ship by the now doubled motor was rapidly increased. The
passengers felt their suits envelope them and began to labor for breath. Seaton slowly turned
the mixing valve, a little with each advance of his lever, until pure oxygen flowed through
the pipes. The power levers had moved scarcely half of their range, yet minutes now intervened
between each advance instead of seconds, as at the start.

As each of the two men was determined that he would make the last advance, the duel continued
longer than either would have thought possible. Seaton made what he thought his final effort
and waited--only to feel, after a few minutes, the upward surge telling him that DuQuesne was
still able to move his lever. His brain reeled. His arm seemed paralyzed by its own enormous
weight, and felt as though it, the rolling table upon which it rested, and the supporting framework
were so immovably welded together that it was impossible to move it even the quarter-inch necessary
to operate the ratchet-lever. He could not move his body, which was oppressed by a sickening
weight. His utmost efforts to breathe forced only a little of the life-giving oxygen into his
lungs, which smarted painfully at the touch of the undiluted gas, and he felt that he could
not long retain consciousness under such conditions. Nevertheless, he summoned all his strength
and advanced the lever one more notch. He stared at the clock-face above his head, knowing
that if DuQuesne could advance his lever again he would lose consciousness and be beaten. Minute
after minute went by, however, and the acceleration of the ship remained constant. Seaton,
knowing that he was in sole control of the power-plant, fought to retain possession of his
faculties, while the hands of the clock told off the interminable minutes.

After an eternity of time an hour had passed, and Seaton attempted to cut down his power, only
to find with horror that the long strain had so weakened him that he could not reverse the
ratchet. He was still able, however, to give the lever the backward jerk which disconnected
the wires completely--and the safety straps creaked with the sudden stress as, half the power
instantly shut off, the suddenly released springs tried to hurl five bodies against the ceiling.
After a few minutes DuQuesne revived and slowly cut off his power. To the dismay of both men
they were again falling!

DuQuesne hurried to the lower window to make the observation, remarking:

"You're a better man than I am, Gunga Din."

"Only because you're so badly bunged up. One more notch would've got my goat," replied Seaton
frankly as he made his way to Dorothy's side. He noticed as he reached her, that Crane had
removed his helmet and was approaching the other girl. By the time DuQuesne had finished the
observation, the other passengers had completely recovered, apparently none the worse for their
experience.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Did we gain anything?" asked Seaton eagerly.

"I make it two, four, thirteen. We've lost about two minutes of arc. How much power did we
have on?"

"A little over half--thirty-two points out of sixty possible."

"We were still falling pretty fast. We'll have to put on everything we've got. Since neither
of us can put it on we'll have to rig up an automatic feed. It'll take time, but it's the only
way."

"The automatic control is already there," put in Crane, forestalling Seaton's explanation.
"The only question is whether we will live through it--and that is not really a question, since
certain death is the only alternative. We must do it."

"We sure must," answered Seaton soberly.

Dorothy gravely nodded assent.

"What do you fellows think of a little plus pressure on the oxygen?" asked Seaton. "I think
it would help a lot."

"I think it's a good idea," said DuQuesne, and Crane added:

"Four or five inches of water will be about all the pressure we can stand. Any more might burn
our lungs too badly."

The pressure apparatus was quickly arranged and the motors filled to capacity with reserve
bars--enough to last seventy-two hours--the scientists having decided that they must risk everything
on one trial and put in enough, if possible, to pull them clear out of the influence of this
center of attraction, as the time lost in slowing up to change bars might well mean the difference
between success and failure. Where they might lie at the end of the wild dash for safety, how
they were to retrace their way with their depleted supply of copper, what other dangers of
dead star, planet, or sun lay in their path--all these were terrifying questions that had to
be ignored.

       *       *       *       *       *

DuQuesne was the only member of the party who actually felt any calmness, the quiet of the
others expressing their courage in facing fear. Life seemed very sweet and desirable to them,
the distant earth a very Paradise! Through Dorothy's mind flashed the visions she had built
up during long sweet hours, visions of a long life with Seaton. As she breathed an inaudible
prayer, she glanced up and saw Seaton standing beside her, gazing down upon her with his very
soul in his eyes. Never would she forget the expression upon his face. Even in that crucial
hour, his great love for her overshadowed every other feeling, and no thought of self was in
his mind--his care was all for her. There was a long farewell caress. Both knew that it might
be goodbye, but both were silent as the violet eyes and the gray looked into each other's depths
and conveyed messages far beyond the power of words. Once more he adjusted her helmet and strapped
her into place.

As Crane had in the meantime cared for the other girl, the men again took their places and
Seaton started the motor which would automatically advance the speed levers, one notch every
five seconds, until the full power of both motors was exerted. As the power was increased,
he turned the valve as before, until the helmets were filled with pure oxygen under a pressure
of five inches of water.

Margaret Spencer, weakened by her imprisonment, was the first to lose consciousness, and soon
afterward Dorothy felt her senses leave her. A half-minute, in the course of which six mighty
surges were felt, as more of the power of the doubled motor was released, and Crane had gone,
calmly analyzing his sensations to the last. After a time DuQuesne also lapsed into unconsciousness,
making no particular effort to avoid it, as he knew that the involuntary muscles would function
quite as well without the direction of the will. Seaton, although he knew it was useless, fought
to keep his senses as long as possible, counting the impulses he felt as the levers were advanced.

"Thirty-two." He felt exactly as he had before, when he had advanced the lever for the last time.

"Thirty-three." A giant hand shut off his breath completely, though he was fighting to his
utmost for air. An intolerable weight rested upon his eyeballs, forcing them backward into
his head. The universe whirled about him in dizzy circles--orange and black and green stars
flashed before his bursting eyes.

"Thirty-four." The stars became more brilliant and of more variegated colors, and a giant pen
dipped in fire was writing equations and mathematico-chemical symbols upon his quivering brain.
He joined the circling universe, which he had hitherto kept away from him by main strength,
and whirled about his own body, tracing a logarithmic spiral with infinite velocity--leaving
his body an infinite distance behind.

"Thirty-five." The stars and the fiery pen exploded in a wild coruscation of searing, blinding
light and he plunged from his spiral into a black abyss.

       *       *       *       *       *

In spite of the terrific stress put upon the machine, every part functioned perfectly, and
soon after Seaton had lost consciousness the vessel began to draw away from the sinister globe;
slowly at first, faster and faster as more and more of the almost unlimited power of the mighty
motor was released. Soon the levers were out to the last notch and the machine was exerting
its maximum effort. One hour and an observer upon the Skylark would have seen that the apparent
size of the massive unknown world was rapidly decreasing; twenty hours and it was so far away
as to be invisible, though its effect was still great; forty hours and the effect was slight;
sixty hours and the Skylark was out of range of the slightest measurable force of the monster
it had left.

Hurtled onward by the inconceivable power of the unleashed copper demon in its center, the
Skylark flew through the infinite reaches of interstellar space with an unthinkable, almost
incalculable velocity--beside which the velocity of light was as that of a snail to that of
a rifle bullet; a velocity augmented every second by a quantity almost double that of light itself.

CHAPTER XI

Through Space Into the Carboniferous

Seaton opened his eyes and gazed about him wonderingly. Only half conscious, bruised and sore
in every part of his body, he could not at first realize what had happened. Instinctively drawing
a deep breath, he coughed and choked as the undiluted oxygen filled his lungs, bringing with
it a complete understanding of the situation. Knowing from the lack of any apparent motion
that the power had been sufficient to pull the car away from that fatal globe, his first thought
was for Dorothy, and he tore off his helmet and turned toward her. The force of even that slight
movement, wafted him gently into the air where he hung suspended several minutes before his
struggles enabled him to clutch a post and draw himself down to the floor. A quick glance around
informed him that Dorothy, as well as the others, was still unconscious. Making his way rapidly
to her, he placed her face downward upon the floor and began artificial respiration. Very soon
he was rewarded by the coughing he had longed to hear. He tore off her helmet and clasped her
to his breast in an agony of relief, while she sobbed convulsively upon his shoulder. The first
ecstasy of their greeting over, Dorothy started guiltily.

"Oh, Dick!" she exclaimed. "How about Peggy? You must see how she is!"

"Never mind," answered Crane's voice cheerily. "She is coming to nicely."

Glancing around quickly, they saw that Crane had already revived the stranger, and that DuQuesne
was not in sight. Dorothy blushed, the vivid wave of color rising to her glorious hair, and
hastily disengaged her arms from around her lover's neck, drawing away from him. Seaton, also
blushing, dropped his arms, and Dorothy floated away from him, frantically clutching at a brace
just beyond reach.

"Pull me down, Dick!" she called, laughing gaily.

Seaton, seizing her instinctively, neglected his own anchorage and they hung in the air together,
while Crane and Margaret, each holding a strap, laughed with unrestrained merriment.

"Tweet, tweet--I'm a canary!" chuckled Seaton. "Throw us a rope!"

"A Dicky-bird, you mean," interposed Dorothy.

