The doctrine of Hume's which next confronts us is his famous one concerning Cause and Effect.
He commences it by explaining that all objects of human enquiry are divisible into two kinds--1.
Relations of Ideas, like those of which geometry, algebra, and arithmetic treat, and which
are either intuitively certain, or 'discoverable by the mere operation of thought, without
dependence on what is anywhere existent in the universe,' as, for example, the truths demonstrated
by Euclid, which would be equally incontestable even 'though there were never a circle or a
triangle in nature:' 2. Matters of Fact, as, for example, the sun's rising and setting, or
the emission of light and heat by fire, which are never discoverable by unassisted reason,
because of no one of them would the opposite imply a contradiction or be consequently inconceivable;
and in our knowledge of any one of which we can never 'go beyond the evidence of our memory
and senses,' except by means of reasons derived from experience of some fact or facts connected
in some way or other with the particular matter of fact we are considering.

So far, all is comparatively plain sailing, but Hume now propounds a difficulty which he at
first presents as seemingly insurmountable, but which I cannot help thinking to be mainly of
his own creation, and which he himself, almost immediately afterwards, suggests a mode, though
a very inadequate mode, of overcoming. His language here is not marked by his usual perspicuity,
or rather--to speak without respect of persons--it contradicts itself in most astounding fashion;
but his meaning is not the less certainly the following, for there is no other construction
which his words will bear.

'What,' he asks, 'is the foundation of all conclusions from experience?' Why is it that, having
found that such an object has always been attended with such an effect, we infer that similar
objects will always be attended with similar effects? The proposition that a certain antecedent
has always been followed by a certain consequent, and the proposition that the same antecedent
will be followed by the same consequent, are not identical. What, then, is the connexion between
them which causes one to be inferred from the other? The connexion is unhesitatingly pronounced
by him to be neither intuitively perceived, nor yet to be 'founded on any process of the understanding.'
If you insist that the inference is made by a chain of reasoning, he challenges you to produce
that reasoning, and taking for granted that you have none to produce, he proceeds to indicate
what principle it is which, in his opinion, does determine us to form the inference. That principle
he declares to be custom or habit, by which alone, he asserts, we are, after the constant conjunction
of two objects, determined to expect the one from the appearance of the other; adding that
all inferences from experience are effects of custom, not of reasoning.

What is the correct answer to this question of Hume's I shall be rash enough to endeavour to
indicate a little further on; meanwhile there can be no temerity in saying that whatever be
the right answer, Hume's is certainly a wrong one. Habit plainly cannot be its own parent.
It enables us to repeat more easily what we have already repeatedly done, but it cannot be
the cause of our doing or being able to do anything for the first time. An infant that has
once burnt its fingers by touching the flame of a candle, expects that if it touch the flame
again it will burn its fingers again, but it does not expect this because it has been in the
habit of expecting it. Neither, if we be here bidden to understand that the habit referred
to is not any mental habit of our own, but a habit which we have observed certain phenomena
to have of following each other, shall we thereby be brought one whit nearer the truth. Our
infant with the burnt finger has not observed that flame is in the habit of burning. It only
knows that flame did burn on the one occasion on which it tried the experiment, which experiment
it consequently declines to repeat. Besides, no one needs to be told that inferences, though
thus capable of being drawn from single occurrences, are drawn with increased confidence from
observation of habit. We all know already that, having always found that fire burns, we infer
that it always will burn. What we want to know is, why we draw this inference. This is the
question which Hume puts, and respecting which he gives very positively the negative reply
that the inference is not drawn either intuitively, nor yet by any process of the understanding.
Yet that a body when not moving must needs be at rest, is not more certainly demonstrable than
that inferences cannot possibly be drawn except in one or other of these two ways. Is not every
inference a species of belief, and must not every belief be either innate within us, or have
been acquired artificially; and, as in the latter case, it is a mental acquisition, must it
not in that case have been acquired by an operation of the mind or understanding? Is it not
clear, then, that inferences must always be either intuitive or ratiocinative; and is it not
strange that Hume should deny that they ever are so? Yet stranger still is it, that even while
denying them to be either one or the other, he, almost in the same breath, pronounces them
to be both. With all humility, I submit the following as a possible solution of the enigma.

The one solitary ground on which Hume denies the argumentative and ratiocinative character
of what he nevertheless terms arguments and reasonings, is the impossibility of producing the
chains of argument or reasoning of which they are composed. But this impossibility can at most
only prove that the reasonings are elementary, and have, consequently, no component parts into
which they can be resolved. But reasoning is not the less reasoning for being elementary, or
for being only a single link in a chain, instead of being itself a chain composed of many links.
Still, being elementary, it may occur to, and pass through, the mind with extreme rapidity--with
not less rapidity than an intuition or instinct, for which therefore it may easily be mistaken,
as accordingly it has actually been by Hume. But that a reasoning from experience is not really
an instinct is certain, firstly, because intuitive or instinctive reasoning, if not a phrase
absolutely devoid of meaning, is a contradiction in terms; and, secondly, because, if it were
instinctive, it would precede instead of following experience, and a baby, instead of finding
out that flame burns by touching it, would know beforehand that flame burns, and would therefore
not touch it. That such a definition should for a moment have satisfied its author's curiosity,
is itself a psychological curiosity which must not, however, be suffered to detain us. Whoever,
not content with knowing perfectly well what belief is, desires to have his knowledge of it
set down in writing, should read the admirable notes on the subject, with which Mr. John Mill
and Mr. Bain have enriched the last edition of Mr. James Mill's 'Analysis of the Human Mind.'
Most readers, however, will probably be disposed to avail themselves here of a rather favourite
phrase of Hume himself, and to plead that, 'if we agree about the thing, it is needless to
dispute about terms;' and it is not unlikely that such of them as may have formed their notion
of metaphysical discussions in general from the specimens given above, may go so far as to
hint a doubt whether any of the nice verbal distinctions which metaphysicians so much affect,
are really worth the trouble required to understand them. Nor would anyone, perhaps, be much
the worse for acting upon this suspicion, provided that, in accordance with it, he kept altogether
aloof from the studies which it disparages. His ideas need not be the less clear because he
neither knows nor cares of what they are copies, nor whether they are copies of anything; nor
will the order of their occurrence be at all affected in consequence of his being similarly
careless, whether that order is or is not governed by a law of association; neither need his
inferences from experience be the less sound in consequence of his never having enquired how
or why they are deduced. But although the most absolute ignorance and corresponding indifference
about these and kindred topics may not tend in the least to disqualify him for performance
of the whole duty of man, it is not the less important that, if he do care to know aught about
them, his knowledge should be exact, for there is no knowing beforehand how luxuriantly the
minutest germ of theoretical error may ramify in practice, or into what substantive quagmire
trust in deceitful shadows may lead. These respectable aphorisms may be beneficially borne
in mind during perusal of what is about to be said.

If the fact were really, as Hume supposed, that we have no reason for our inferences from experience,
and draw them only because either we have been in the habit of drawing them, or because we
are so constituted as to be unable to help drawing them, the reason of our drawing them plainly
could not be that we perceive any necessary connection between antecedent and consequent events,
or any force or power binding these together as cause and effect. Accordingly, Hume does not
scruple to affirm that 'we have no idea of connection or power at all, and that these words
are absolutely without meaning when employed either in philosophical reasoning or in common
life.' Every idea, he argues, referring to a rule which he somewhat hastily supposes himself
to have already proved to be without exception, must needs have been copied from some preceding
sensible impression, but neither from within nor from without can we have received an impression
from which this particular idea can have been copied. No keenest scrutiny of any portion of
matter, no study of its external configuration or internal structure could, previously to experience,
enable us to conjecture that it could produce any effect whatever, still less any particular
effect: could enable us to guess, for instance, that flame would burn, or ice would chill,
if touched. Nor even though on once touching flame we get our fingers burnt, are mature philosophers
like us to conclude, as if we had no more intelligence than so many babies, that if we touch
again we shall be burnt again. All we have as yet learnt from the experiment is that the sensation
of touching fire has once been followed by the sensation of burning, but nothing has occurred
to suggest that in the first sensation lurked any secret power of producing the second. And
what a single experiment does not prove, no number of repetitions of precisely the same experiment
with precisely the same results can prove. Even though on a lengthened course of experience
we have found that in every case of our touching flame our fingers have been burnt, we are
still as far as ever from perceiving any bond of connection between the two events. We do indeed
believe that as flame when touched has hitherto invariably burnt, so, whenever touched hereafter,
it will hereafter invariably burn; but this, according to Hume, we believe simply because by
long practice we have contracted such a habit of associating the idea of touched flame with
burnt fingers, that whenever we witness the one we cannot help expecting the other.

Neither, if, withdrawing our eyes from the outward world, we cast them inwardly upon the operations
of our own minds, shall we, according to Hume, any the more discover what we are in search
of. What though we know by experience that whatever, within certain limits, our will appoints,
our bodily organs or mental faculties will ordinarily perform; that our limbs will move as
we wish them, and our memory, reason, or imagination bring forward ideas which we desire to
contemplate, what knowledge have we here beyond that of certain volitions and certain other
acts taking place in succession? What smallest evidence have we of any connection between the
volitions and the other acts? A volition is an operation of the mind, is it not? and body is
matter, is it not? And do you pretend to know--can you form the smallest approach to a guess--how
mind is united with body, and how it is possible therefore for the refined spiritual essence
to actuate the gross material substance.

If, nevertheless, you fancy you understand in what manner the will has some of the bodily organs
under its government, how, pray, do you account for its not having all equally--the heart and
liver as well as the tongue and fingers? Without trying, you never would have discovered that
your bowels will not, any more than without trying you could have known that your limbs will,
ordinarily move in conformity with your wishes. Neither, if one of your limbs were to be suddenly
paralysed, would you, until you tried, become aware that it would no longer move as you wished.
If there be, then, a power attached to the will, it is plainly experience alone which apprises
you of its existence; whereas if you were independently conscious of it, you would know beforehand
precisely what it can and what it cannot effect, and would, moreover, when you lost it, become
instantly aware of your loss.

Again, and above all, does not anatomy teach us that when the mind wills the movement of any
bodily member, it 'is not the member itself which is immediately moved, but certain intervening
nerves, muscles, and animal spirits, or possibly something still more minute and more unknown,'
through which the motion is successively propagated until it reach the member? So that when
the mind wills one event, a series of other events, quite different and quite unthought of,
take place instead; and it is only by their means that the will's purpose is finally achieved.
But how can the mind be conscious, how can it form the remotest conception, of a power which
not only never does what the mind desires, but never does aught of which the mind is cognisant?

And as we are thus utterly unable to perceive any power that the mind has over the body, so
are we equally unconscious of any power of the mind over itself. We know as little of its internal
nature and constitution as we do of its mode of connection with the body. We know by experience
that at the bidding of the will ideas are continually brought forward; but by what means they
are brought forward we are absolutely ignorant, as we are also of the reasons of the fluctuation
of mental activity, and why mental operations are more vigorous in health than in sickness,
before breakfast than after a heavy dinner or deep carouse.

Such, on the issue immediately before us, is Hume's reasoning, to which--though necessarily
very greatly condensing it--I shall, I am sure, be acknowledged to have conscientiously striven
to do full justice, by bringing all its points into the strongest light, and arranging them
in the most effective order. Still, with its utmost strength thus displayed before us, we are
fully warranted in asserting à priori that its whole utmost strength is weakness. If, by following
a leader who has engaged to conduct us to a certain spot, we find ourselves at our journey's
end in a quite different place, no appeal that the guide can make to maps or finger-posts will
persuade us that he has not mistaken the way. Nor need our judgment be otherwise, even though
our guide be Hume, if, having started with him in pursuit of truth, we are finally landed in
a patent absurdity. With all due respect for logic, we protest with Tony Lumpkin against being
argufied out of our senses, as we plainly should be if we allowed ourselves to be persuaded
that whenever we use the words power or connection we have no idea thereto correspondent. Since,
then, Hume tells us this, we may be quite sure that he has been deluded by some fallacy which
may be detected by adequate search; and being, moreover, sensible that we really have the idea
our possession of which is denied by him, we may be equally sure that the original of which
the idea is a copy is similarly discoverable. In sooth, neither the one nor the other is far
to seek. The fallacy consists simply in confusion of the definite with the indefinite article.
The original of our idea of power Hume himself indicates even while rejecting it. Although
constrained by Hume's demonstration to confess that we cannot even conjecture of what kind
is the authority which the will exercises over the limbs, we are not the less sensible that
it does exercise an authority of some sort or other, which they are unable to disobey. We know
that in ordinary circumstances our limbs will move when we wish them to move, and will remain
quiet when we wish them not to move. Nor this only. We moreover know, or at any rate fancy
we know, that they would not have moved unless we had wished them. In examples like these of
volitions followed, as the case may be, by premeditated motion or rest, we have something more
than the simple sequence observable in the succession of external events. We do not perceive
simply that, as when fire is lighted, heat is emitted, so when the mind wills the body moves.
We perceive clearly that there must be a connection of some sort between antecedent and consequent,
without which the first certainly would not and, we fancy, could not have followed the first.
We perceive, in short, that the second followed because the first preceded. If fire were an
animated being, capable of forming and manifesting volitions; and if we observed that whenever
it wished to emit heat, heat was emitted; and that whenever it wished to withhold heat, heat
was withheld; and if we were thereupon to say that fire has the power of emitting or withholding
heat at its pleasure, our words surely would not be destitute of signification; they would
certainly possess some meaning, and that a very obvious one. And so they as certainly do when
we say that the mind has power over those bodily movements which we observe to take place and
to cease in constant conformity with its will. I am not saying that what they mean is necessarily
truth--we will come to that presently--all I say as yet is, that they mean something, and that
that something, whether it be a real or only an imaginary perception, is perfectly fitted to
be the original of that idea of 'power' connecting cause and effect, or of 'connection' between
cause and effect, which Hume maintains does not exist, because there is no original from which
it can have been copied. It matters not that we are quite ignorant of what nature is the something
from which our idea of power possessed by the mind over the body is derived, and which, for
aught we know, may reside, not in the mind, but in the body, and may consist, not of any strength
inherent in the former, but of loyalty and docility inherent in the latter. Just as the authority
of a popular general over a well-disciplined army is not the less real because the soldiers,
every one of whose lives is at the general's disposal, might, if so inclined, mutiny en masse,
so it can make no difference in the mind's power over the body whether the mind be intrinsically
able to enforce obedience, or the limbs be so constituted as to be unable to disobey. As little
does it matter that we are also ignorant of the mode in which the mind's behests are communicated
to the members. It is not the less certain that in some mode or other they are communicated.
Neither does it signify more that the mind does not communicate directly with the part of the
body which it desires to influence, and acts upon that part only by means of action propagated
through a series of intervening parts; or that it is able to direct only some organs, and not
others, or cannot direct even those, if by some accident they have become seriously deranged.
A strong-armed blockhead is not the less obviously able to pump up water because the terms
'muscular contractility' and 'atmospheric pressure' are as heathen Greek to him; or because
the pump-handle, which alone is directly moved by him, touches, not the water itself, but only
the first link in a chain of mechanism connecting it with the water; or because, if the sucker
of the pump got choked, or the well were to dry up, it would be vain for him to go on moving
the pump-handle. Blockhead as he is, nothing of all this in the least diminishes his conviction
that as long as the pump continues in order and there remains water in the well, he can oblige
the water to rise by moving the pump-handle; nor can anything analogous prevent the mind from
feeling that whenever, in ordinary circumstances, it wills that the limbs be moved, the limbs
not only will be moved, but cannot help being moved accordingly. But it is simply impossible
that, from the exercise of volitions which it knows will be obeyed, the mind should not receive
the sensation of exercising causal power; and having thus got the sensation, it has nothing
to do but to copy the sensation in order to get the idea of causal power. Ce n'est que le premier
pas qui coûte; the first step being taken the others cost nothing. The mind having, by introspection
of its own operations, discovered what Hume, though professing to look in the same direction,
unaccountably contrived to overlook--the idea, namely, of causal power--proceeds to apply that
idea to the connection of external phenomena. Not only do we, whenever we see a horse or an
ox walking of its own accord, infer that the animal walks because it wishes to walk; but having
observed that, when a stone is thrown into the air it invariably falls presently afterwards
towards the ground; that a magnet invariably attracts any light piece of iron placed near it;
that red-hot coals always burn; and that water always moistens, we infer that the second constituent
of each brace of phenomena takes place because of the first, meaning thereby that there is
some strong bond connecting the two and compelling one to follow the other. If called upon
to justify this inference, we may do so by reducing to absurdity its only possible alternative.
If there be supposed to be no connection between two phenomena constituting one of those invariable
sequences which we are accustomed to denominate cause and effect, the sequence which they constitute
must needs be an unconnected sequence, and the only reason for styling one of the phenomena
a cause is, that it is an antecedent which the other invariably follows. But according to this,
as has been pointed out over and over again, day would be the cause of night, and night the
cause of day, and tidal flux and reflux likewise would be each other's causes; and Mr. J. S.
Mill has therefore proposed to interpolate a word, and to define the cause of a phenomenon
as 'the antecedent on which it (the phenomenon) is invariably and unconditionally consequent.'[30]
I must, however, confess myself unable to perceive how the definition is improved by this emendation.
There is not, and cannot possibly be, such a thing as unconditionally invariable sequence,
as, indeed, Mr. Mill himself virtually admits by expressly assuming as an indispensable condition
of all causation that 'the present constitution of things endure.' But if, notwithstanding
the presence of this indispensable condition, it be permissible to call any sequence unconditionally
invariable, then the sequences of night upon day and of day upon night are such sequences,
and day and night continue consequently entitled to be styled each other's causes as much under
the amended as under the original definition. For as long as 'the present constitution of things
endures,' that is, as long as the earth continues to revolve on its axis, and the sun continues
to shine, and no opaque substance intervenes between earth and sun, day and night will continue
to be as invariably and unconditionally each other's antecedents as sunlight will continue
to be the antecedent or concomitant of day. True, Mr. Mill denies that the earth's diurnal
motion is part of the present constitution of things, because, according to him, 'nothing can
be so called which might possibly be terminated or altered by natural causes:' but, if so,
then neither ought sunlight to be so called, for it too quite possibly may, nay, in the opinion
of many philosophers, most certainly will, be extinguished eventually by natural causes. If
day ought not to be called the unconditionally invariable consequent of night merely because
it would cease to be so if the earth were to cease turning on its axis, then neither ought
it to be called the unconditionally invariable consequent of the unshrouded proximity of the
sun, inasmuch as it would cease to be thereupon consequent if the sun were to become burnt
out. If night be not, and if sunlight be, the cause of day, the reason is not that sunlight
always hitherto has been, and, on one indispensable condition, always will be followed by day,
for so equally has hitherto been, and on the same condition will hereafter be, night. The real
reason is, that sunlight not only always has been and will be, but also always must be followed
by day; that unless the constitution of nature very materially change, wherever is sunlight
day must be; whereas not only might day be, although night had never preceded, but unless night
had preceded, day must have been from the beginning. In short, to constitute cause, invariability,
however unconditional, will not suffice. Another quality must be added, and that quality I
contend to be obligatoriness. A cause, I maintain, would not be a cause unless its effect not
only do or will, but must necessarily follow it. In common with the great unphilosophic mass
of mankind, I hold that between cause and effect there is a binding power which constrains
the one to follow the other. If asked whence we suppose that power can have been derived, such
of us, as conscious that we are 'no very great wits,' don't mind confessing that we 'believe
in a God,' will not mind either suggesting that the power, wherever not exerted by an animated
creature, may possibly be directly from God. One thing certain is, that inanimate matter cannot
possibly possess or exercise any force or power whatever, so that, unless matter, although
apparently dead, be really alive, attraction, cohesion, gravitation, and all its other so called
forces, being incompatible with dead inertness, must needs be manifestations of some living,
and possibly divine, power. Far from there being any difficulty in conceiving Omnipresent Deity
to be exhibiting its might in every speck of universal space in every instant of never-ending
time, it is, on the contrary, impossible to conceive otherwise. We cannot conceive one single
minutest point in limitless extension to be for one moment exempt from the immediate control
of a divine nature assumed to be

  Diffused throughout infinity's expanse
  And co-existent with eternity.

Here, indeed, we hasten to acknowledge with Hume that 'our line is too short to fathom the
immense abyss' which we have now reached. But we need not, therefore, follow Hume to the lengths
to which his insidious mock-modesty would fain entice us. We may concede to him that 'we have
no idea of a Supreme Being but what we learn from reflection on our own faculties,' but we
need not imitate him by perversely shutting our eyes to the evidences of an energy inherent
in our own faculties, and thereby entitle him to insist on our joining him in denying that
there is any evidence of energy in the Supreme Being. We need not, because constrained to admit
that we know no more of the essence of divine, than we do of human, power, pretend that we
cannot even conceive such a thing as divine power. Hume's affectation of profound ignorance
on the subject must have occasioned unusual amusement in a certain quarter. The Devil can seldom
have had a more hearty grin at his darling sin than when witnessing this peculiar exhibition
of the pride that apes humility. Even for those who should undertake to deduce from it the
impossibility of any liberty of human will, and consequently of any human responsibility, pleading
that, inasmuch as with a continued chain of necessary causes, reaching from the first great
cause of all to every separate volition of every single human creature, it must needs be the
Creator of the world who is the ultimate author of all volitions, and consequently solely accountable
for every crime which man commits, he affects, with exceedingly ill-sitting sanctimoniousness,
to have no better answer than that such belief, being impious, must be absurd and cannot be
true. It did not suit his purpose to point out that the volitions of Omnipotence itself, equally
with human volitions, are necessary effects of causes--the causes in their case being the other
attributes with which Omnipotence is conjoined--and that as it is nevertheless impossible for
the volitions of Omnipotence to be otherwise than absolutely free and uncontrolled, so there
is no reason why human volitions likewise should not, in spite of the same objection, be as
thoroughly free as our own feelings assure us they are.

Hume's sudden conversion, so amazing at first sight, from flattest denial to positivest assertion
of causal power, becomes intelligible when he is seen immediately afterwards using his newly
adopted creed as a fulcrum whereon to rest his argumentative lever in his assault upon Miracles.
About that celebrated piece of reasoning, startling as the avowal may sound, there is, to my
mind, nothing more remarkable than its celebrity, for, on close inspection, it will be found
to be entirely made up of (1) the demonstration of a truism, and (2) the inculcation of a confessedly
misleading rule. Not far from its commencement will be found a definition which, if correct,
would leave nothing to dispute about. A miracle, we are told, is 'a violation of the laws of
nature,' of laws which a firm and unalterable experience has established. But if so, cadit
quæstio. Of course, there can be no alteration of the unalterable. No need, of course, of further
words to prove that a miracle thus defined is an impossibility.

Let us suppose, however, the word unalterable to have been used here by a slip of the pen instead
of unaltered, and that Hume really meant by a miracle any alteration of what had previously
appeared to be the constant course of nature. Even so, we shall have him contending that no
amount, however great, of testimony however unimpeachable, ought to be accepted as adequate
proof of such an alteration. Of what he urges in support of this position much may be at once
dismissed as altogether irrelevant. That the most honest witness may be the dupe of optical
or auricular illusion, or of a distorting or magnifying imagination; that there is in many
minds a natural predisposition to believe in the marvellous, and that the love of astonishing
often gives exaggerated expression to the exaggerations of the fancy; that self-interest and
religious zeal often furnish additional motives for mendacity, and that testimony, even when
sincere at first, is apt to become corrupted at every stage as it passes from hand to hand,
or is committed to paper--all this, together with any further enumeration of circumstances
calculated to invalidate testimony, is quite beside the real question. It merely proves what
no one needs to have proved, the propriety, viz., of weighing evidence and balancing adverse
probabilities; and even though it proved in addition that of all the so-styled miracles on
record, there is not a single one the evidence for which is sufficient, it would still prove
nothing to the purpose. For Hume is arguing against the credibility, not of any miracles in
particular, but of all miracles in general, those included the witnesses for which are of indisputable
intelligence and undisputed veracity. Be the quality of the testimony what it may, no quantity
of it, according to him, can be sufficient. This is the essence of his thesis, the only part
of it in which there is any novelty, and in behalf of this part all that he has to say may
be resolved into a sophism, followed by a repetition of the same begging of the question, as
is involved in his afore-cited definition of a miracle. In substance it runs as follows. All
testimony is at best but a description of the results of sensible experience--of observations
of the senses--but the most faithful description must needs be a less vivid presentation of
truth than the reality described. A single original is better evidence than any number of copies.
Your own personal experience is more trustworthy than any number of mere records of the experience
of other people, and where the two conflict, the former always deserves preference. Now the
personal experience of each one of us assures us that many sets of natural phenomena take place
in perfectly invariable sequences, in sequences so invariable as to appear to be, and to be
familiarly spoken of as, manifestations or operations of certain inflexible laws of nature.
Within our experience there has never been a single deviation from any such law. Wherefore,
though all the rest of mankind should unite in asserting that they have observed such a deviation,
we ought not to believe them. Even though, for example--the example, however, being not Hume's,
but my own--we were, on leaving home some morning, to hear on all sides that, while we were
yet in bed, the sun was seen to rise in the west instead of the east, and though we found the
statement repeated in the 'Times' and 'Daily News,' and presently afterwards saw it posted
up at the Exchange as having been flashed by electric wire from New York and Kurrachee, we
are not for a moment to doubt that these reiterated and mutually corroborative statements are
utterly false. For, numerous and consistent as they may be, they are but copies of the experience
of other people, while, although we may have to oppose to them only our own single experience,
still that single experience is original, and therefore of more worth. The value, moreover,
of any experience is, irrespective of originality, determined by the difference in number between
the results of opposite kinds which it has discovered. The smaller number is deducted from
the larger, and the balance represents the probability that the results which have most frequently
occurred hitherto will continue to occur henceforward. The larger the deduction thus to be
made, the smaller the probability, and vice versâ; and when the deduction is nil, or when there
has hitherto been complete uniformity, the probability becomes virtual certainty. When two
original experiences are opposed to each other, their respective values, ascertained in the
same manner, are compared, and trust is reposed in one or the other accordingly. Now, according
to these principles, difficult as it might be in the case supposed for any one to conceive
what motive all the rest of the world could have for lying, it would be still more difficult
to believe them to be speaking truth. For why do we ever believe anything that anyone says?
Why but because we have learnt by experience that, when people have no apparent motive for
lying, they commonly do speak the truth? But the same experience which has taught us this has
taught us likewise that people do now and then lie without apparent motive. At best, therefore,
there is never more than a probability that people are speaking the truth, while in this instance,
the supposition that they might be speaking the truth would imply that there may be a truth
against which there is proof amounting to certainty. For what they affirm is that something
has happened the very reverse of what has invariably happened before in the same circumstances.
Is it not infinitely more likely that people should be lying as they have often done before,
than that the invariable course of nature should have undergone a variation? With evidence
on the one side that has never yet deceived, with no evidence on the other save what has often
proved deceptive, how can we hesitate which to accept? Even though the unanimity of testimony
be such as might otherwise be deemed complete proof, it is here met by absolutely complete
proof in the shape of a law of nature. The greater probability overwhelms the lesser. The stronger
proof annihilates the weaker, leaving none of it behind, so that whoever still persists in
believing that a law of nature has been violated, must be content to do so without one particle
of proof. No quantity of testimony can furnish the smallest proof of a miracle unless the falsehood
of the testimony would be a greater departure from antecedent uniformity--in other words, would
be a greater miracle--than the miracle which it attests. Unfortunately it is but too notorious
that there is not, and never has been, such a thing as uniform truthfulness of testimony to
depart from.

