  Say the tense-strained rope-strands sunder, say that either band prevail!
  Shall not "conquer" in the issue prove a Synonym for "fail"?
  "Banded Unions persecute," and Federated Money Bags
  Will not prove a jot or tittle juster. Fools! Haul down those flags!
  Competition is not conflict. So the Grand Old Casuist says,
  Speaking with the sager caution of his earlier calmer days.
  True! Athletic rivals straining at the tense tough-stranded rope,
  Strain in friendly competition, ruin not their aim or hope;
  But a lethal Tug of War 'twixt "federated" foemen blind.
  With a chasm at their feet, and each a yawning gulf behind,
  On a precipice precarious! Truly, too, a foolish fight!
  Rival Federated Wrongs will never further Common Right!

       *       *       *       *       *

"GIVE IT TO THE BARD!"

Mr. ROBERT INGERSOLL speaking of, and at, Poet WALT WHITMAN on the occasion of presenting the
aged and eccentric poet with the "long contemplated testimonial," to quote The Times, said,
that "W.W. is intellectually hospitable"--this sounds like 'ready to take in anybody'--"but
he refuses to accept a creed merely because it is wrinkled, old, and white-bearded. Hypocrisy
wears a venerable look; and relies on its mask to hide its stupidity and fear." Now this was
rather rough on the Bard, who is described as "an interesting figure, with his long white hair
falling over his shoulders." It seemed as if ROBERT INGERSOLL wished to imply, Don't be taken
in and accept W.W. at his own poetic valuation as a poet, simply because he is wrinkled, old,
white-haired, and wears a venerable look, which, after all, may be only a hypocritical mask?
Mr. INGERSOLL couldn't have been more infelicitous if he had "come to bury 'WHITMAN,' not to
praise him." Then he went on, "Neither does WHITMAN accept everything new." This clearly excepted
the testimonial, which, we may suppose, was brand new, or at all events, had been so at some
time or other, though having been "long contemplated" it might have got a trifle dusty or mouldy.
Then finished the orator, magnificently, epigrammatically, and emphatically, thus "He" (i.e.,
WALT WHITMAN) "wants truth." And with all our heart and soul we reply, "We wish he may get it."

       *       *       *       *       *

MR. PUNCH'S PRIZE NOVELS.--No. V., "Mignon's Mess-Room," will appear in our next Number.

       *       *       *       *       *

EMPLOYMENT OF CAPITAL.

Sir,--In the St. James's Gazette of Thursday week there was a quotation from Mr. BUCHANAN's
Modern Review, where, in support of his opinions, he quotes "Pope passim." Whatever may be
the outward and visible form of Mr. BUCHANAN's religion, it is discourteous, at least, even
for an ultra-Presbyterian Scotchman, to spell the name of a Pope without making the initial
letter a capital, and it is unlike a Scotchman not to make capital out of anything. Here, I
may say, that Mr. BUCHANAN's contributions to recent journalistic literature have been mostly
capital letters. But to return. Why POPE passim, and not POPE Passim, or POPE PASSIM? Is it
not mis-spelt? In vain have I searched history for the name of this Pope. Searchimus iterum.
But I must protest, in the mean time, of this particularly mean way of Bu-chananising a Roman
Pontiff. Please accept this as a MEMO FROM NEMO.

       *       *       *       *       *

