I should have burst into tears, I verily believe, but just then Lady Scapegrace sailed in,
and the usual forms of society had to be gone through; and she kissed me, and shook hands with
Mr. Jones, as if she really liked us; and we talked of the weather, and the shameful stoppages
of the train we had come by, and the general inconveniences of railways; and presently more
ladies came down, neat and crisp as if turned out of a bandbox, followed by their lords in
choking white neckcloths; and then Sir Guy himself appeared in a costume of surpassing splendour;
but still, although in his evening dress, brilliant with starch and polish and buttons and
jewellery, looking like a coachman in masquerade; and "dinner" was announced, and we all paired
off with the utmost ceremony, and I found myself seated between Frank Lovell and dear old Mr.
Lumley, and opposite the elder Miss Molasses, who scowled at me with an asperity of which I
should have believed her unmeaning face incapable, as if she hated me on this particular evening
more than all the other days of the year. I soon discovered the cause. Frank was more attentive
to me than I had ever known him, although there was a something in his manner that I did not
altogether like, a sort of freedom that I had never remarked before, and which made me colder
and more reserved than usual. It was evident he thought he might venture as far as he liked
with a young lady who drove four horses and smoked a cigar the while. I felt I was blushing
under my skin; but I was determined to brave it all out, to hide from every living soul my
own vexation and self-contempt. Once I caught a telegraphic signal exchanged between my neighbour
and Miss Molasses, after which she seemed more at ease, and went on with her dinner in comfort.
I was so angry now that I turned my shoulder towards Master Frank, and took refuge with my
dear old friend Mr. Lumley, who, utterly regardless of the noise and flirtation his better
half was carrying on at the other end of the table, discussed his cutlet quite contentedly,
and prosed away to me in his usual kind, consolatory manner. I was one of his great favourites;
in fact, he told me so, then and there. He always called me "my dear," and often vowed that
if he had only the use of his legs he would walk to the end of the world to make me a thoroughgoing
naturalist like himself. I was getting more at ease under his dear old wing. I had gone through
so much excitement during the day that this comparative inaction was a positive relief, and
I was really beginning to enjoy a sort of repose, when the Baronet's horrid voice from the
bottom of the table aroused me once more to an agony of shame and despite.

"Do me the honour to drink a glass of champagne; the champagne to Miss Coventry!" shouted Sir
Guy; "you must require it after your exertion. Egad! my team won't get over it in a hurry--the
roads were woolly and the time short--hey, Miss Kate? But d----n me if the whipcord was scarce.
I've done that seven miles in all weathers, and a sweet seven miles it is, but I never came
anything like the pace we did to-day. Your good health, Miss Kate; I'll have a fresh team put
together for you to-morrow, and a better cigar to smoke than the one I gave you to-day."

I could willingly have sunk into the earth--nay, crept under the table-cloth--anything to hide
my dishonoured head. The ladies looked at each other aghast, and then at me. The gentlemen,
even the stiffest of them, turned boldly round to survey such a phenomenon as the tobacco-smoking,
four-in-hand Miss Coventry. Mrs. Lumley showered her long ringlets all over her face with one
toss of her pretty little head that I might not see how heartily she was laughing. Lady Scapegrace
good-naturedly made an immense clatter with something that was handed to her, to distract attention
from my unfortunate self; but I believe I must have got up and left the room had not Cousin
John come adroitly to the rescue. He had not been studying the daily paper for nothing, and
his voice rose loud and clear through the awful silence that succeeded Sir Guy's polished remarks.

"Did you see that article in to-day's Times about Ministers?" asked John, of the public in
general; "there's another split in the Cabinet--this time it's on the malt-tax. To-day, in
the City, they were betting five to two there's a general election within a fortnight, and
taking two to one Ambidexter is Premier before the first of next month."

John! John! if you had saved my life I could not have been more obliged to you. Many of the
present party were members of Parliament--all were deep in politics. Most of them had seen
the Times, but none, like John, had the earliest intelligence from the City. I have since had
reason to believe he invented every syllable of it. However, such a topic was too engrossing
not to swamp every other, and no more allusions were made to my unfortunate escapade till Lady
Scapegrace had drawn on her gloves, bent her haughty head, and "made the move," at which we
all sailed away to tea and coffee in the drawing-room.

Here I was more at my ease. Lady Scapegrace and Mrs. Lumley, hating each other, were, of course,
inclined to be excessively kind to me--I formed a bond of union between the foes. We three,
particularly with such a weapon as the tongue of Mrs. Lumley, were more than a match for any
number of our own sex, and most of the other ladies gave in at once. Only Miss Molasses held
out, and eyed me once more with an expression of eager malice for which I could not easily
account. I remarked, too, that she seemed restless and fidgety, glanced anxiously ever and
anon at the door by which the gentlemen would join us, and seemed uncomfortable if any of us
approached an empty chair which was next to her seat. I began to have my suspicions of Frank
Lovell, notwithstanding all his asseverations. I determined to watch him narrowly; and if I
found my misgivings were true--if I discovered he was false and treacherous, why, then, I would--after
all, what could I do? It stung me to think how powerless I was.

Now, the establishment of Scamperley, although doubtless the bonds of domestic discipline were
by no means over-tightly drawn, was one in which servants, from the stately curly-headed "groom
of the chambers," down to the little boy in green that was always too late for the post, had
more than enough upon their hands. In the first place, nobody ever seemed to think of going
to bed much before daylight. This entailed a breakfast, protracted by one late sleeper after
another till luncheon-time; that meal was of unusual magnificence and variety; besides which,
a hot repast, dressed by the French cook, and accompanied by iced champagne, etc., required
to be served in one of the woods for the refreshment of Sir Guy's shooting guests. Then in
the afternoon there were constant fresh arrivals and rooms to be got ready; for when the host
and hostess were at home they kept the house full, and the day concluded with a large dinner-party,
at which seldom less than sixteen sat down to discuss the inspirations of Monsieur Horsd'oeuvre
and the priceless wines of Sir Guy. No wonder the servants looked tired and overworked, though
I fancy the luxury and good living downstairs was quite equal to that which elicited encomiums
from bon-vivants and connoisseurs above. Nevertheless, it was but just that they too should
have their share of relaxation and amusement; therefore did Sir Guy in his generosity give
an annual servants' ball, which he attended and opened himself in a state of hilarity not calculated
to inspire much respect amongst his retainers. He had, however, sufficient self-command invariably
to select as his partner the prettiest maidservant in his establishment. But if the baronet
failed in his dignity as head of the house, her ladyship had enough for both. She looked like
a queen as she sailed in, amongst her own domestics and all the retainers and hangers-on for
miles round. On the evening in question it amused me much to see the admiration, almost the
adoration, she elicited from old and young. No wonder: that stately form, that queenly brow,
had been bent over many a sick-bed; those deep, thrilling tones had spoken words of comfort
to many a humble sufferer; that white hand was ever ready to aid, ever open to relieve; good
or bad, none ever applied to Lady Scapegrace in vain.

"The virtuous it is pleasant to relieve and make friends of," she has often said to me in her
moments of confidence; "the wicked it is a duty to assist and to pity. Who should feel for
them, Kate, if I didn't? God knows I have been wicked enough myself."

The men-servants never took their eyes off her, and I fear made but sorry partners to the buxom
lasses of the household till "my lady" had left the room. I saw two stable-boys, evidently
fresh arrivals, who seemed perfectly transfixed with admiration, as at an apparition such as
they had never pictured to themselves in their dreams; and one rough fellow, a sort of under-keeper
in velveteen, with the frame of a Hercules and a fist that could have stunned an ox, having
gazed at her open-mouthed for about ten minutes without winking an eyelash, struck his hand
against his thigh, and exclaimed aloud to his own inexpressible relief, though utterly unconscious
of anything but the presence which so overpowered him,--

"Noa, dashed if ever I did!"

