Gunpowder Day, the boy was particularly low.  It was scowling, squally weather.  Huge broken
companies of cloud sailed swiftly overhead; raking gleams of sunlight swept the village, and
were followed by intervals of darkness and white, flying rain.  At times the wind lifted up
its voice and bellowed.  The trees were all scourging themselves along the meadows, the last
leaves flying like dust.

The Doctor, between the boy and the weather, was in his element; he had a theory to prove.
He sat with his watch out and a barometer in front of him, waiting for the squalls and noting
their effect upon the human pulse.  'For the true philosopher,' he remarked delightedly, 'every
fact in nature is a toy.'  A letter came to him; but, as its arrival coincided with the approach
of another gust, he merely crammed it into his pocket, gave the time to Jean-Marie, and the
next moment they were both counting their pulses as if for a wager.

At nightfall the wind rose into a tempest.  It besieged the hamlet, apparently from every side,
as if with batteries of cannon; the houses shook and groaned; live coals were blown upon the
floor.  The uproar and terror of the night kept people long awake, sitting with pallid faces
giving ear.

It was twelve before the Desprez family retired.  By half-past one, when the storm was already
somewhat past its height, the Doctor was awakened from a troubled slumber, and sat up.  A noise
still rang in his ears, but whether of this world or the world of dreams he was not certain.
Another clap of wind followed.  It was accompanied by a sickening movement of the whole house,
and in the subsequent lull Desprez could hear the tiles pouring like a cataract into the loft
above his head.  He plucked Anastasie bodily out of bed.

'Run!' he cried, thrusting some wearing apparel into her hands; 'the house is falling!  To
the garden!'

She did not pause to be twice bidden; she was down the stair in an instant.  She had never
before suspected herself of such activity.  The Doctor meanwhile, with the speed of a piece
of pantomime business, and undeterred by broken shins, proceeded to rout out Jean-Marie, tore
Aline from her virgin slumbers, seized her by the hand, and tumbled downstairs and into the
garden, with the girl tumbling behind him, still not half awake.

The fugitives rendezvous'd in the arbour by some common instinct.  Then came a bull's-eye flash
of struggling moonshine, which disclosed their four figures standing huddled from the wind
in a raffle of flying drapery, and not without a considerable need for more.  At the humiliating
spectacle Anastasie clutched her nightdress desperately about her and burst loudly into tears.
The Doctor flew to console her; but she elbowed him away.  She suspected everybody of being
the general public, and thought the darkness was alive with eyes.

Another gleam and another violent gust arrived together; the house was seen to rock on its
foundation, and, just as the light was once more eclipsed, a crash which triumphed over the
shouting of the wind announced its fall, and for a moment the whole garden was alive with skipping
tiles and brickbats.  One such missile grazed the Doctor's ear; another descended on the bare
foot of Aline, who instantly made night hideous with her shrieks.

By this time the hamlet was alarmed, lights flashed from the windows, hails reached the party,
and the Doctor answered, nobly contending against Aline and the tempest.  But this prospect
of help only awakened Anastasie to a more active stage of terror.

'Henri, people will be coming,' she screamed in her husband's ear.

'I trust so,' he replied.

'They cannot.  I would rather die,' she wailed.

'My dear,' said the Doctor reprovingly, 'you are excited.  I gave you some clothes.  What have
you done with them?'

'Oh, I don't know--I must have thrown them away!  Where are they?' she sobbed.

Desprez groped about in the darkness.  'Admirable!' he remarked; 'my grey velveteen trousers!
This will exactly meet your necessities.'

'Give them to me!' she cried fiercely; but as soon as she had them in her hands her mood appeared
to alter--she stood silent for a moment, and then pressed the garment back upon the Doctor.
'Give it to Aline,' she said--'poor girl.'

'Nonsense!' said the Doctor.  'Aline does not know what she is about. Aline is beside herself
with terror; and at any rate, she is a peasant. Now I am really concerned at this exposure
for a person of your housekeeping habits; my solicitude and your fantastic modesty both point
to the same remedy--the pantaloons.'  He held them ready.

'It is impossible.  You do not understand,' she said with dignity.

By this time rescue was at hand.  It had been found impracticable to enter by the street, for
the gate was blocked with masonry, and the nodding ruin still threatened further avalanches.
But between the Doctor's garden and the one on the right hand there was that very picturesque
contrivance--a common well; the door on the Desprez' side had chanced to be unbolted, and now,
through the arched aperture a man's bearded face and an arm supporting a lantern were introduced
into the world of windy darkness, where Anastasie concealed her woes.  The light struck here
and there among the tossing apple boughs, it glinted on the grass; but the lantern and the
glowing face became the centre of the world.  Anastasie crouched back from the intrusion.

'This way!' shouted the man.  'Are you all safe?'  Aline, still screaming, ran to the new comer,
and was presently hauled head-foremost through the wall.

'Now, Anastasie, come on; it is your turn,' said the husband.

'I cannot,' she replied.

'Are we all to die of exposure, madame?' thundered Doctor Desprez.

'You can go!' she cried.  'Oh, go, go away!  I can stay here; I am quite warm.'

The Doctor took her by the shoulders with an oath.

'Stop!' she screamed.  'I will put them on.'

She took the detested lendings in her hand once more; but her repulsion was stronger than shame.
'Never!' she cried, shuddering, and flung them far away into the night.

Next moment the Doctor had whirled her to the well.  The man was there and the lantern; Anastasie
closed her eyes and appeared to herself to be about to die.  How she was transported through
the arch she knew not; but once on the other side she was received by the neighbour's wife,
and enveloped in a friendly blanket.

Beds were made ready for the two women, clothes of very various sizes for the Doctor and Jean-Marie;
and for the remainder of the night, while madame dozed in and out on the borderland of hysterics,
her husband sat beside the fire and held forth to the admiring neighbours.  He showed them,
at length, the causes of the accident; for years, he explained, the fall had been impending;
one sign had followed another, the joints had opened, the plaster had cracked, the old walls
bowed inward; last, not three weeks ago, the cellar door had begun to work with difficulty
in its grooves.  'The cellar!' he said, gravely shaking his head over a glass of mulled wine.
'That reminds me of my poor vintages.  By a manifest providence the Hermitage was nearly at
an end.  One bottle--I lose but one bottle of that incomparable wine.  It had been set apart
against Jean- Marie's wedding.  Well, I must lay down some more; it will be an interest in
life.  I am, however, a man somewhat advanced in years.  My great work is now buried in the
fall of my humble roof; it will never be completed--my name will have been writ in water. 
And yet you find me calm--I would say cheerful.  Can your priest do more?'

By the first glimpse of day the party sallied forth from the fireside into the street.  The
wind had fallen, but still charioted a world of troubled clouds; the air bit like frost; and
the party, as they stood about the ruins in the rainy twilight of the morning, beat upon their
breasts and blew into their hands for warmth.  The house had entirely fallen, the walls outward,
the roof in; it was a mere heap of rubbish, with here and there a forlorn spear of broken rafter.
A sentinel was placed over the ruins to protect the property, and the party adjourned to Tentaillon's
to break their fast at the Doctor's expense.  The bottle circulated somewhat freely; and before
they left the table it had begun to snow.

For three days the snow continued to fall, and the ruins, covered with tarpaulin and watched
by sentries, were left undisturbed.  The Desprez' meanwhile had taken up their abode at Tentaillon's.
Madame spent her time in the kitchen, concocting little delicacies, with the admiring aid of
Madame Tentaillon, or sitting by the fire in thoughtful abstraction. The fall of the house
affected her wonderfully little; that blow had been parried by another; and in her mind she
was continually fighting over again the battle of the trousers.  Had she done right?  Had she
done wrong?  And now she would applaud her determination; and anon, with a horrid flush of
unavailing penitence, she would regret the trousers.  No juncture in her life had so much exercised
her judgment.  In the meantime the Doctor had become vastly pleased with his situation.  Two
of the summer boarders still lingered behind the rest, prisoners for lack of a remittance;
they were both English, but one of them spoke French pretty fluently, and was, besides, a humorous,
agile-minded fellow, with whom the Doctor could reason by the hour, secure of comprehension.
Many were the glasses they emptied, many the topics they discussed.

'Anastasie,' the Doctor said on the third morning, 'take an example from your husband, from
Jean-Marie!  The excitement has done more for the boy than all my tonics, he takes his turn
as sentry with positive gusto.  As for me, you behold me.  I have made friends with the Egyptians;
and my Pharaoh is, I swear it, a most agreeable companion.  You alone are hipped.  About a
house--a few dresses?  What are they in comparison to the "Pharmacopoeia"--the labour of years
lying buried below stones and sticks in this depressing hamlet?  The snow falls; I shake it
from my cloak!  Imitate me.  Our income will be impaired, I grant it, since we must rebuild;
but moderation, patience, and philosophy will gather about the hearth.  In the meanwhile, the
Tentaillons are obliging; the table, with your additions, will pass; only the wine is execrable--well,
I shall send for some to-day.  My Pharaoh will be gratified to drink a decent glass; aha! and
I shall see if he possesses that acme of organisation--a palate.  If he has a palate, he is
perfect.'

'Henri,' she said, shaking her head, 'you are a man; you cannot understand my feelings; no
woman could shake off the memory of so public a humiliation.'  The Doctor could not restrain
a titter.  'Pardon me, darling,' he said; 'but really, to the philosophical intelligence, the
incident appears so small a trifle.  You looked extremely well--'

'Henri!' she cried.

'Well, well, I will say no more,' he replied.  'Though, to be sure, if you had consented to
indue--A propos,' he broke off, 'and my trousers! They are lying in the snow--my favourite
trousers!'  And he dashed in quest of Jean-Marie.

Two hours afterwards the boy returned to the inn with a spade under one arm and a curious sop
of clothing under the other.

The Doctor ruefully took it in his hands.  'They have been!' he said. 'Their tense is past.
Excellent pantaloons, you are no more!  Stay, something in the pocket,' and he produced a piece
of paper.  'A letter! ay, now I mind me; it was received on the morning of the gale, when I
was absorbed in delicate investigations.  It is still legible.  From poor, dear Casimir!  It
is as well,' he chuckled, 'that I have educated him to patience.  Poor Casimir and his correspondence--his
infinitesimal, timorous, idiotic correspondence!'

He had by this time cautiously unfolded the wet letter; but, as he bent himself to decipher
the writing, a cloud descended on his brow.

'Bigre!' he cried, with a galvanic start.

And then the letter was whipped into the fire, and the Doctor's cap was on his head in the
turn of a hand.

'Ten minutes!  I can catch it, if I run,' he cried.  'It is always late. I go to Paris.  I
shall telegraph.'

'Henri! what is wrong?' cried his wife.

'Ottoman Bonds!' came from the disappearing Doctor; and Anastasie and Jean-Marie were left
face to face with the wet trousers.  Desprez had gone to Paris, for the second time in seven
years; he had gone to Paris with a pair of wooden shoes, a knitted spencer, a black blouse,
a country nightcap, and twenty francs in his pocket.  The fall of the house was but a secondary
marvel; the whole world might have fallen and scarce left his family more petrified.

CHAPTER VIII. THE WAGES OF PHILOSOPHY.

On the morning of the next day, the Doctor, a mere spectre of himself, was brought back in
the custody of Casimir.  They found Anastasie and the boy sitting together by the fire; and
Desprez, who had exchanged his toilette for a ready-made rig-out of poor materials, waved his
hand as he entered, and sank speechless on the nearest chair.  Madame turned direct to Casimir.

'What is wrong?' she cried.

'Well,' replied Casimir, 'what have I told you all along?  It has come. It is a clean shave,
this time; so you may as well bear up and make the best of it.  House down, too, eh?  Bad luck,
upon my soul.'

'Are we--are we--ruined?' she gasped.

The Doctor stretched out his arms to her.  'Ruined,' he replied, 'you are ruined by your sinister
husband.'

Casimir observed the consequent embrace through his eyeglass; then he turned to Jean-Marie.
'You hear?' he said.  'They are ruined; no more pickings, no more house, no more fat cutlets.
It strikes me, my friend, that you had best be packing; the present speculation is about worked
out.'  And he nodded to him meaningly.

'Never!' cried Desprez, springing up.  'Jean-Marie, if you prefer to leave me, now that I am
poor, you can go; you shall receive your hundred francs, if so much remains to me.  But if
you will consent to stay'--the Doctor wept a little--'Casimir offers me a place--as clerk,'
he resumed. 'The emoluments are slender, but they will be enough for three.  It is too much
already to have lost my fortune; must I lose my son?'

Jean-Marie sobbed bitterly, but without a word.

'I don't like boys who cry,' observed Casimir.  'This one is always crying.  Here! you clear
out of this for a little; I have business with your master and mistress, and these domestic
feelings may be settled after I am gone.  March!' and he held the door open.

Jean-Marie slunk out, like a detected thief.

By twelve they were all at table but Jean-Marie.

'Hey?' said Casimir.  'Gone, you see.  Took the hint at once.'

'I do not, I confess,' said Desprez, 'I do not seek to excuse his absence.  It speaks a want
of heart that disappoints me sorely.'

'Want of manners,' corrected Casimir.  'Heart, he never had.  Why, Desprez, for a clever fellow,
you are the most gullible mortal in creation.  Your ignorance of human nature and human business
is beyond belief.  You are swindled by heathen Turks, swindled by vagabond children, swindled
right and left, upstairs and downstairs.  I think it must be your imagination.  I thank my
stars I have none.'

'Pardon me,' replied Desprez, still humbly, but with a return of spirit at sight of a distinction
to be drawn; 'pardon me, Casimir.  You possess, even to an eminent degree, the commercial imagination.
It was the lack of that in me--it appears it is my weak point--that has led to these repeated
shocks.  By the commercial imagination the financier forecasts the destiny of his investments,
marks the falling house--'

'Egad,' interrupted Casimir: 'our friend the stable-boy appears to have his share of it.'

The Doctor was silenced; and the meal was continued and finished principally to the tune of
the brother-in-law's not very consolatory conversation.  He entirely ignored the two young
English painters, turning a blind eyeglass to their salutations, and continuing his remarks
as if he were alone in the bosom of his family; and with every second word he ripped another
stitch out of the air balloon of Desprez's vanity. By the time coffee was over the poor Doctor
was as limp as a napkin.

'Let us go and see the ruins,' said Casimir.

They strolled forth into the street.  The fall of the house, like the loss of a front tooth,
had quite transformed the village.  Through the gap the eye commanded a great stretch of open
snowy country, and the place shrank in comparison.  It was like a room with an open door. 
The sentinel stood by the green gate, looking very red and cold, but he had a pleasant word
for the Doctor and his wealthy kinsman.

Casimir looked at the mound of ruins, he tried the quality of the tarpaulin.  'H'm,' he said,
'I hope the cellar arch has stood.  If it has, my good brother, I will give you a good price
for the wines.'

'We shall start digging to-morrow,' said the sentry.  'There is no more fear of snow.'

'My friend,' returned Casimir sententiously, 'you had better wait till you get paid.'

The Doctor winced, and began dragging his offensive brother-in-law towards Tentaillon's.  In
the house there would be fewer auditors, and these already in the secret of his fall.

'Hullo!' cried Casimir, 'there goes the stable-boy with his luggage; no, egad, he is taking
it into the inn.'

And sure enough, Jean-Marie was seen to cross the snowy street and enter Tentaillon's, staggering
under a large hamper.

The Doctor stopped with a sudden, wild hope.

'What can he have?' he said.  'Let us go and see.'  And he hurried on.

'His luggage, to be sure,' answered Casimir.  'He is on the move--thanks to the commercial
imagination.'

'I have not seen that hamper for--for ever so long,' remarked the Doctor.

'Nor will you see it much longer,' chuckled Casimir; 'unless, indeed, we interfere.  And by
the way, I insist on an examination.'

'You will not require,' said Desprez, positively with a sob; and, casting a moist, triumphant
glance at Casimir, he began to run.

'What the devil is up with him, I wonder?' Casimir reflected; and then, curiosity taking the
upper hand, he followed the Doctor's example and took to his heels.

The hamper was so heavy and large, and Jean-Marie himself so little and so weary, that it had
taken him a great while to bundle it upstairs to the Desprez' private room; and he had just
set it down on the floor in front of Anastasie, when the Doctor arrived, and was closely followed
by the man of business.  Boy and hamper were both in a most sorry plight; for the one had passed
four months underground in a certain cave on the way to Acheres, and the other had run about
five miles as hard as his legs would carry him, half that distance under a staggering weight.

'Jean-Marie,' cried the Doctor, in a voice that was only too seraphic to be called hysterical,
'is it--?  It is!' he cried.  'O, my son, my son!' And he sat down upon the hamper and sobbed
like a little child.

'You will not go to Paris now,' said Jean-Marie sheepishly.

'Casimir,' said Desprez, raising his wet face, 'do you see that boy, that angel boy?  He is
the thief; he took the treasure from a man unfit to be entrusted with its use; he brings it
back to me when I am sobered and humbled.  These, Casimir, are the Fruits of my Teaching, and
this moment is the Reward of my Life.'

'Tiens,' said Casimir.

PRINTED BY SPOTTISWOODE AND CO. LTD., NEW-STREET SQUARE LONDON

Footnotes

{5}  Boggy.

{15}  Clock

{16}  Enjoy.

{140}  To come forrit--to offer oneself as a communicant.

{263}  Let it be so, for my tale!