Price Threepence. Stamped Edition, 6d.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES AND QUERIES.

The nature and design of the present work have been so fully stated in the Prospectus, and
are indeed so far explained by its very Title, that it is unnecessary to occupy any great portion
of its first number with details on the subject. We are under no temptation to fill its columns
with an account of what we hope future numbers will be. Indeed, we would rather give a specimen
than a description; and only regret that, from the wide range of subjects which it is intended
to embrace, and the correspondence and contributions of various kinds which we are led to expect,
even this can only be done gradually. A few words of introduction and explanation may, however,
be allowed; and indeed, ought to be prefixed, that we may be understood by those readers who
have not seen our Prospectus.

"WHEN FOUND, MAKE A NOTE OF," is a most admirable rule; and if the excellent Captain had never
uttered another word, he might have passed for a profound philosopher. It is a rule which should
shine in gilt letters on the gingerbread of youth, and the spectacle-case of age. Every man
who reads with any view beyond mere pastime, knows the value of it. Every one, more or less,
acts upon it. Every one regrets and suffers who neglects it. There is some trouble in it, to
be sure; but in what good thing is there not? and what trouble does it save! Nay, what mischief!
Half the lies that are current in the world owe their origin to a misplaced confidence in memory,
rather than to intentional falsehood. We have never known more than one man who could deliberately
and conscientiously say that his memory had never deceived him; and he (when he saw that he
had excited the surprise of his hearers, especially those who knew how many years he had spent
in the management of important commercial affairs) used to add,--because he had never trusted
it; but had uniformly written down what he was anxious to remember.

But, on the other hand, it cannot be denied that reading and writing men, of moderate industry,
who act on this rule for any considerable length of time, will accumulate a good deal of matter
in various forms, shapes, and sizes--some more, some less legible and intelligible--some unposted
in old pocket books--some on whole or half sheets, or mere scraps of paper, and backs of letters--some
lost sight of and forgotten, stuffing out old portfolios, or getting smoky edges in bundles
tied up with faded tape. There are, we are quite sure, countless boxes and drawers, and pigeon-holes
of such things, which want looking over, and would well repay the trouble.

Nay, we are sure that the proprietors would find themselves much benefited even if we were
to do nothing more than to induce them to look over their own collections. We need not add
that this unsuccessful search for Professor Mac Cribb's epistle, and the scroll of the Antiquary's
answer, was the unfortunate turning-point on which the very existence of the documents depended,
and that from that day to this nobody has seen them, or known where to look for them.

But we hope for more extensive and important benefits than these, from furnishing a medium
by which much valuable information may become a sort of common property among those who can
appreciate and use it. We do not anticipate any holding back by those whose "NOTES" are most
worth having, or any want of "QUERIES" from those best able to answer them. Some cheap and
frequent means for the interchange of thought is certainly wanted by those who are engaged
in literature, art, and science, and we only hope to persuade the best men in all, that we
offer them the best medium of communication with each other.

By this time, we hope, our readers are prepared to admit that our title (always one of the
most difficult points of a book to settle), has not been imprudently or unwisely adopted. We
wish to bring together the ideas and the wants, not merely of men engaged in the same lines
of action or inquiry, but also (and very particularly) of those who are going different ways,
and only meet at the crossings, where a helping hand is oftenest needed, and they would be
happy to give one if they knew it was wanted. In this way we desire that our little book should
take "NOTES," and be a medley of all that men are doing--that the Notes of the writer and the
reader, whatever be the subject-matter of his studies, of the antiquary, and the artist, the
man of science, the historian, the herald, and the genealogist, in short, Notes relating to
all subjects but such as are, in popular discourse, termed either political or polemical, should
meet in our columns in such juxta-position, as to give fair play to any natural attraction
or repulsion between them, and so that if there are any hooks and eyes among them, they may
catch each other.

Now, with all modesty, we submit, that for the title of such a work as we have in view, and
have endeavoured to describe, no word could be so proper as "NOTES." Can any man, in his wildest
dream of imagination, conceive of any thing that may not be--nay, that has not been--treated
of in a note? Thousands of things there are, no doubt, which cannot be sublimed into poetry,
or elevated into history, or treated of with dignity, in a stilted text of any kind, and which
are, as it is called, "thrown" into notes; but, after all, they are much like children sent
out of the stiff drawing-room into the nursery, snubbed to be sure by the act, but joyful in
the freedom of banishment. We were going to say (but it might sound vainglorious), where do
things read so well as in notes? but we will put the question in another form:--Where do you
so well test an author's learning and knowledge of his subject?--where do you find the pith
of his most elaborate researches?--where do his most original suggestions escape?--where do
you meet with the details that fix your attention at the time and cling to your memory for
ever?--where do both writer and reader luxuriate so much at their case, and feel that they
are wisely discursive?--But if we pursue this idea, it will be scarcely possible to avoid something
which might look like self-praise; and we content ourselves for the present with expressing
our humble conviction that we are doing a service to writers and readers, by calling forth
materials which they have themselves thought worth notice, but which, for want of elaboration,
and the "little leisure" that has not yet come, are lying, and may lie for ever, unnoticed
by others, and presenting them in an unadorned multum-in-parvo form. To our readers therefore
who are seeking for Truth, we repeat "When found make a NOTE of!" and we must add, "till then
make a QUERY."

       *       *       *       *       *

PLACE OF CAPTURE OF THE DUKE OF MONMOUTH.

20th October, 1849.

Mr. Editor,--Mr. Macaulay's account of the Battle of Sedgemoor is
rendered singularly picturesque and understandable by the personal
observation and local tradition which he has brought to bear upon it.
Might not his account of the capture of Monmouth derive some few
additional life-giving touches, from the same invaluable sources of
information. It is extremely interesting, as every thing adorned by Mr.
Macaulay's luminous style must necessarily be, but it lacks a little of
that bright and living reality, which, in the account of Sedgemoor, and
in many other parts of the book, are imparted by minute particularity
and precise local knowledge. Eng., i. pp.
    616-618. 2nd edition.

Now, this is all extremely admirable. It is a brilliant description of an important historical
incident. But on what precise spot did it take place? One would like to endeavour to realise
such an event at the very place where it occurred, and the historian should enable us to do
so. I believe the spot is very well known, and that the traditions of the neighbourhood upon
the subject are still vivid. It was near Woodyate's Inn, a well-known roadside inn, a few miles
from Salisbury, on the road to Blandford, that the Duke and his companions turned adrift their
horses. From thence they crossed the country in almost a due southerly direction. The tract
of land in which the Duke took refuge is rightly described by Mr. Macaulay, as "separated by
an inclosure from the open country." Its nature is no less clearly indicated by its local name
of "The Island." The open down which surrounds it is called Shag's Heath. The Island is described
as being about a mile and a half from Woodlands, and in the parish of Horton, in Dorsetshire.
The field in which the Duke concealed himself is still called "Monmouth Close." It is at the
north-eastern extremity of the Island. An ash-tree at the foot of which the would-be-king was
found crouching in a ditch and half hid under the fern, was standing a few years ago, and was
deeply indented with the carved initials of crowds of persons who has been to visit it. Mr.
Macaulay has mentioned that the fields were covered--it was the eighth of July--with standing
crops of rye, pease, and oats. In one of them, a field of pease, tradition tells us that the
Duke dropped a gold snuff-box. It was picked up some time afterwards by a labourer, who carried
it to Mrs. Uvedale of Horton, probably the proprietress of the field, and received in reward
fifteen pounds, which was said to be half its value. On his capture, the Duke was first taken
to the house of Anthony Etterick, Esq., a magistrate who resided at Holt, which adjoins Horton.
Tradition, which records the popular feeling rather than the fact, reports, that the poor woman
who informed the pursuers that she had seen two strangers lurking in the Island--her name was
Amy Farrant--never prospered afterwards; and that Henry Parkin, the soldier, who, spying the
skirt of the smock-frock which the Duke had assumed as a disguise, recalled the searching party
just as they were leaving the Island, burst into tears and reproached himself bitterly for
his fatal discovery.

It is a defect in the Ordnance Survey, that neither the Island nor Monmouth Close is indicated
upon it by name.

I know not, Mr. Editor, whether these particulars are of the kind which you design to print
as "NOTES." If they are so, and you give them place in your miscellany, be good enough to add
a "QUERY" addressed to your Dorsetshire correspondents, as to whether the ash-tree is now standing,
and what is the actual condition of the spot at the present time. The facts I have stated are
partly derived from the book known as Addison's Anecdotes, vol. iv., p. 12. 1794, 8vo. They
have been used, more or less, by the late Rev. P. Hall, in his Account of Ringwood, and by
Mr. Roberts, in his Life of Monmouth.

With the best of good wishes for the success of your most useful periodical,

Believe me, Mr. Editor,

Yours very truly,

JOHN BRUCE.

       *       *       *       *       *

SHAKESPEARE AND DEER-STEALING.

In "The Life of Shakespeare," prefixed to the edition of his Works I saw through the press
three of four years ago, I necessarily entered into the deer-stealing question, admitting that
I could not, as some had done, "entirely discredit the story," and following it up by proof
(in opposition to the assertion of Malone), that Sir Thomas Lucy had deer, which Shakespeare
might have been concerned in stealing. I also, in the same place (vol. i. p. xcv.), showed,
from several authorities, how common and how venial offence it was considered in the middle
of the reign of Elizabeth. Looking over some MSS. of that time, a few weeks since, I met with
a very singular and confirmatory piece of evidence, establishing that in the year 1585, the
precise period when our great dramatist is supposed to have made free with the deer of the
knight of Charlcote, nearly all the cooks'-shops and ordinaries of London were supplied with
stolen venison. The following letter from the lord mayor (which I copy from the original) of
that day, Thomas Pullyson, to secretary Walsingham, speaks for itself, and shows that the matter
has been deemed of so much important as to call for the interposition of the Privy Council:
the city authorities were required to take instant and arbitrary measures for putting an end
to the consumption of venison and to the practice of deer-stealing, by means of which houses
&c. of public resort in London were furnished with that favourite viand. The letter of the
lord mayor was a speedy reply to a communication from the queen's ministers on the subject:--

    "Right honorable, where yesterday I receaved letters from her Ma'tes
    most honorable privie councill, advertisinge me that her highnes was
    enformed that Venison ys as ordinarilie sould by the Cookes of
    London as other flesh, to the greate distruction of the game.
    Commaundinge me thereby to take severall bondes of xl'li the peece
    of all the Cookes in London not to buye or sell any venison
    hereafter, uppon payne of forfayture of the same bondes; neyther to
    receave any venison to bake without keepinge a note of theire names
    that shall deliver the same unto them. Whereupon presentlie I called
    the Wardens of the Cookes before me, advertisinge them hereof,
    requiringe them to cause their whole company to appeare before me,
    to thende I might take bondes accordinge to a condition hereinclosed
    sent to your Ho.; whoe answered that touchinge the first clause
    thereof they were well pleased therewith, but for the latter clause
    they thought yt a greate inconvenience to their companie, and
    therefore required they might be permitted to make theire answeres,
    and alledge theire reasons therof before theire honors. Affirmed
    alsoe, that the Tablinge howses and Tavernes are greater receyvors
    and destroyers of stollen venison than all the rest of the Cittie:
    whereupon they craved that eyther they maye be likewise bounden, or
    else authoritie may be geven to the Cookes to searche for the same
    hereafter. I have therefore taken bondes of the wardens for their
    speedy appearance before theire honors to answere the same; and I am
    bolde to pray your Ho. to impart the same unto their Ho., and that I
    maye with speede receyve theire future direction herein. And soe I
    humbly take my leave. London, the xj'th of June, 1585.

    "Your honors to commaunde,

    "THOMAS PULLYSON, maior."

I dare say that the registers of the Privy Council contain some record of what was done on
the occasion, and would enable us to decide whether the very reasonable request of the Cooks
of London had been complied with. Whether this be or be not so, the above document establishes
beyond question that in the summer of 1585 cooks'-shops, tabling-houses (i.e. ordinaries),
and taverns, were abundantly supplied with stolen venison, and that the offence of stealing
must have been very common.

J. PAYNE COLLIER

Kensington, Oct. 26, 1849

       *       *       *       *       *

"PRAY REMEMBER THE GROTTO!" ON ST. JAMES' DAY.

When the great popularity which the legends of the Saints formerly enjoyed is considered it
becomes matter of surprise that they should not have been more frequently consulted for illustrations
of our folk-lore and popular observances. The Edinburgh Reviewer of Mrs. Jameson's Sacred and
Legendary Art has, with great judgement, extracted from that work a legend, in which, as he
shows very clearly[A], we have the real, although hitherto unnoticed, origin of the Three Balls
which still form the recognised sign of a Pawnbroker. The passage is so curious, that it should
be transferred entire to the "NOTES AND QUERIES."

  [A] Edinburgh Review, vol. lxxxix. p.400.

    "None of the many diligent investigators of our popular antiquities
    have yet traced home the three golden balls of our pawnbrokers to
    the emblem of St. Nicholas. They have been properly enough referred
    to the Lombard merchants, who were the first to open loan-shops in
    England for the relief of temporary distress. But the Lombards had
    merely assumed an emblem which had been appropriated to St.
    Nicholas, as their charitable predecessor in that very line of
    business. The following is the legend: and it is too prettily told
    to be omitted:--

    "'Now in that city (Panthera) there dwelt a certain nobleman, who
    had three daughters, and, from being rich, he became poor; so poor
    that there remained no means of obtaining food for his daughters but
    by sacrificing them to an infamous life; and oftentimes it came into
    his mind to tell them so, but shame and sorrow held him dumb.
    Meanwhile the maidens wept continually, not knowing what to do, and
    not having bread to eat; and their father became more and more
    desperate. When Nicholas heard of this, he thought it shame that
    such a thing should happen in a Christian land; therefore one night,
    when the maidens were asleep, and their father alone sat watching
    and weeping, he took a handful of gold, and, tying it up in a
    handkerchief, he repaired to the dwelling of the poor man. He
    considered how he might bestow it without making himself known; and,
    while he stood irresolute, the moon coming from behind a cloud
    showed him a window open; so he threw it in, and it fell at the feet
    of the father, who, when he found it, returned thanks, and with it
    he portioned his eldest daughter. A second time Nicholas provided a
    similar sum, and again he threw it in by night; and with it the
    nobleman married his second daughter. But he greatly desired to know
    who it was that came to his aid; therefore he determined to watch:
    and when the good Saint came for the third time, and prepared to
    throw in the third portion, he was discovered, for the nobleman
    seized him by the skirt of his robe, and flung himself at his feet,
    saying, "O Nicholas! servant of God! why seek to hid thyself?" and
    he kissed his feet and his hands. But Nicholas made him promise that
    he would tell no man. And many other charitable works did Nicholas
    perform in his native city.'

    "These three purses of gold, or, as they are more customarily
    figured, these three golden balls, disposed in exact pawnbroker
    fashion, are to this day the recognised special emblem of the
    charitable St. Nicholas."

And now for the more immediate object of the present Note, which is to show--what, when once
pointed out, will, I think, readily be admitted, namely, that in the grotto formed of oyster
shells, and lighted with a votive candle, to which on old St. James's day (5th August) the
passer by is earnestly entreated to contribute by cries of, "Pray remember the Grotto!" we
have a memorial of the world-renowned shrine of St. James at Compostella.

The popularity which St. James formerly enjoyed in England, and the zeal with which his shrine
was visited by natives of this country, have recently been so clearly shown by Mr. J.G. Nichols,
in his interesting little volume, Pilgrimages to St. Mary of Walsingham and St. Thomas of Canterbury,
that I need not here insist upon these points.

What the original object of making these grottoes may have been I can only suggest: but I shall
not be surprised if it should turn out that they were formerly erected on the anniversary of
St. James by poor persons, as an invitation to the pious who could not visit Compostella, to
show their reverence for the Saint by almsgiving to their needy brethren.

Oysters are only allowed to be sold in London (which city, by the by, levied a tax of two pence
on every person going and returning by the river Thames on pilgrimage to the shrine of St.
James), after St. James's day. Why is this? I wish Mr. Wansey, who is an able antiquary, and
one authorised to look into the records of Fishmongers' Company, would give us the information
upon this point which these documents may be expected to furnish.

WILLIAM J. THOMS.

P.S.--I should be glad if any of the readers of "NOTES AND QUERIES" could explain to that Erasmus
alludes, when he says, "Culmeis ornatus torquibus, brachium habet ova serpentum," which L'Estrange
translated, "Straw-works,--snakes, eggs for bracelets;" and Mr. Nichols, who honestly states
that he is unable to explain the allusion, as he does not find such emblems elsewhere mentioned,--"adorned
with straw necklaces and bracelets of serpents' eggs."

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTE OF A MS. VOLUME OF CHRONICLES AT REIGATE.

Amongst the objects of the useful medium of literary communication afforded by the publication
of "NOTES AND QUERIES," one appears to be a record of the casual notice of "some book or some
edition, hitherto unknown or imperfectly described." I am induced therefore to inquire, whether
the existence of an ancient MS. volume of Chronicles, which I have recently noticed in the
little library adjoining Reigate Church, is already known to those who investigate out monastic
annals? This volume may probably not have escaped their research, especially since the republication
and extension of Wharton's Collection, have been recently proposed. A chronological series
of chronicles relativing to the see of Canterbury was announced amongst the projected publications
of the "Anglia Christiana Society."

The Reigate library, of which brief mention is made in Manning's and Bray's History of Surrey
(vol. i. p. 314.) without any notice of its contents, is preserved in the upper chamber of
a building on the north side of the chancel, erected in 1513, and designated as a "vestibulum"
in a contemporary inscription. The collection is small, and amoungst the most interesting volumes
is a small folio, in the original oaken boards covered with white leather, presented to the
library, 7. June, 1701, by William Jordan, of Gatwick, in the adjacent parish of Charlwood,
probably the same person who was member for the borough of Reigate in 1717. Of previous possessors
of the book nothing is recorded. It comprises several concise chronicles, which may be thus
described:--

1. "Cathologus Romanorum Pontificum:"--imperfect, commencing with fol. 11; some leaves also
lost at the end. It closes with the year 1359, in the times of Innocent VI.

2. "De Imperatoribus Romanis:"--from Julius Caesar to the election and coronation of Charles
IV. after the death of the emperor Lewis of Bavaria, and the battle of Cressy, in 1347.

3. "Compilacio Cronicorum de diversis Archiepiscopis ecclesie Cantuariensis:"--the chronicle
of Stephen Birchington, a monk of Canterbury, printed by Wharton, from a MS. in the Lambeth
collection. The text varies in many particulars, which may be of minor moment, but deserve
collation. The writing varies towards the close, as if the annals had been continued at intervals;
and they close with the succession of Archibishop William de Witleseye, in 1368, as in the
text printed by Wharton (Anglia Sacra, vol. i. pp. 1-48.).

4. "De principio mundi, et etatibus ejusdem.--De insulis et civitatibus Anglie:"--forming a
sort of brief preface to the following--"Hic incipit Bruto de gestis Anglorum." The narrative
begins with a tale of a certain giant king of Greece, in the year 3009, who had thirty daughters:
the eldest, Albina, gave her name to Albion. The history is continued to the accession of William
Rufus.

5. "Incipit Cronica de adquisicione Regni Anglie per Willelmum Ducem Normannorum," &c. closing
in 1364, with the birth of Edward of Engolesme, eldest son of the Black Prince. Wharton speaks
of "Historiae de regibus Anglorum, de Pontificibus Romanis, et de Imperatoribus Romanis," as
found together with the chronicle of the archibishops of Canterbury; both in the Lambeth MS.
and in another formerly in the possession of William Reede, Bishop of Chichester: and he was
inclined to attribute the whole to the pen of Birchington.

6. "Gesta Scotorum contra Anglicos:"--commencing in 1066, with the times of Malcolm, king of
Scotland, and ending in 1346, with the capture of David II., and the calamitous defeat of the
Scots near Durham.

At the commencement of the volume are found some miscellaneous writings of less interesting
character. I noticed, however, an entry relating to the foundation of a chapel at "Ocolte,"
now written Knockholt, in Kent, by Ralph Scot, who had erected a mansion remote from the parish
church, and obtained license for the consecration of the chapel in the year 1281, in the time
of Archbishop Kilwareby.

The writing of the MS. appears to be of the latter half of the fourteenth century. Possibly
there may be reader of these "NOTES AND QUERIES," more familiar with such inquiries than myself,
who may have examined other contemporary MSS. of the compilations of Stephen Birchington. I
shall be thankful for any information regarding them, and especially as regards the existence
of any transcript of the Canterbury Annals, extended beyond the year 1368, with which this
copy as well as that used by Wharton closes; whilst he supposes that in the chronicle as cited
by Jocelin, chaplain to Matthew Parker, they had been carried as far as the year 1382.

ALBERT WAY.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MORNING CHRONICLE, ETC.--WHEN FIRST ESTABLISHED.

It is read in the Newspaper Directory that The Morning Chronicle was established in 1770, The
Morning Herald in 1781, The Times, 1st January, 1788. I believe that not one of these dates
is correct, and that of The Morning Herald to be wrong by fifteen years or more. Can you, or
any of the readers of "NOTES AND QUERIES," give me the exact dates, or tell me where I can
find the earlier volumes; say, the first ten, or either or all?

D.

       *       *       *       *       *

VALUE OF A REPOSITORY FOR "NOTES."--NEW EDITION OF HERBERT'S "AMES."

    [The suggestions in the following Paper are so extremely valuable,
    that we are not only pleased to give it insertion, but hope that our
    readers will take advantage of our columns to carry out Dr.
    Maitland's recommendations.]

Sir,--My attention has been particularly engaged by one suggestion in your Prospectus, because
it seems to hold out a hope that your intended work will furnish what has long been a desideratum
in literature. We really do want something that may form a "supplement to works already in
existence--a treasury for enriching future editions of them;" while it may also receive (as
I have no doubt you meant to include,) such contributions of moderate extent, as may tend to
render fuller and more correct some works which have little or no chance of future editions.
In this way you may be of great use in every department of literature; and especially in works
of reference. With them, indeed, correctness is everything; perfect accuracy is not to be attained,
and the nearest possible approximation to it can be made only by many little careful steps,
backwards as well as forwards.

By works of reference, however, I do not mean Dictionaries, though I would include them, as
a class of works for which I have a singular respect, and to which my remark particularly applies.
There are many other books, and some which very properly aspire to the tile of History, which
are, in fact and practically, books of reference, and of little value if they have not the
completeness and accuracy which should characterise that class of works. Now it frequently
happens to people whose reading is at all discursive, that they incidentally fall upon small
matters of correction or criticism, which are of little value to themselves, but would be very
useful to those who are otherwise engaged, if they knew of their existence.

I might perhaps illustrate this matter by referring to various works; but it happens to be
more in my way to mention Herbert's edition of Ames's Typographical Antiquities. It may be
hoped that some day or other, the valuable matter of which it consists will be reduced to a
better form and method; for it seems hardly too much to say, that he appears to have adopted
the very worst that could have been selected. I need not tell you that I have no idea of undertaking
such a thing, and I really have no suspicion (I wish I had) that anybody else is thinking of
doing it:--or, in other words, I am not attempting to make use of your columns by insinuating
a preparatory puff for a work in progress, or even in contemplation. I only mention the book
as one of a class which may be essentially benefited by your offering a receptacle for illustrations,
additions, and corrections, such as individually, or in small collections, are of little or
no value, and are frequently almost in the very opposite condition to those things which are
of no value to any body but the owner. For instance, when I was in the habit of seeing many
of the books noted by Herbert, and had his volumes lying beside me, I made hundreds, perhaps
thousands, of petty corrections, and many from books which he had not had an opportunity of
seeing, and of which he could only reprint incorrect descriptions. All of these, though trifling
in themselves, are things which should be noticed in case of a reprint; but how much time and
trouble would it cost an editor to find and collate the necessary books? That, to be sure,
is his business; but the question for the public is, Would it be done at all? and could it
in such cases be done so well in any other way, as by appointing some place of rendezvous for
the casual and incidental materials for improvement which may fall in the way of readers pursuing
different lines of inquiry, and rewarded, as men in pursuit of truth always are, whatever may
be their success as to their immediate object, by finding more than they are looking for--things,
too, which when they get into their right places, show that they were worth finding--and, perhaps,
unknown to those more conversant with the subject to which they belong, just because they were
in the out-of-the-way place where they were found by somebody who was looking for something else.

S.R. MAITLAND.

       *       *       *       *       *

A FLEMISH ACCOUNT.

T.B.M. will be obliged by references to any early instances of the use of the expression "A
Flemish account," and of any explanation as to its origin and primary signification.

       *       *       *       *       *

BIBLIOGRAPHIC PROJECT.

Of the various sections into which the history of English literature is divisible, there is
no one in which the absence of collective materials is more seriously felt--no one in which
we are more in need of authentic notes, or which is more apt to raise perplexing queries--than
that which relates to the authorship of anonymous and pseudonymous works.

The importance of the inquiry is not inferior to the ardour with which it has sometimes been
pursued, or the curiosity which it has excited. On all questions of testimony, whether historical
or scientific, it is a consideration of the position and character of the writer which chiefly
enables us to decide on the credibility of his statements, to account for the bias of his opinions,
and to estimate his entire evidence at its just value. The remark also applies, in a qualified
sense, to productions of an imaginative nature.

On the number of the works of this class, I can only hazard a conjecture. In French literature,
it amounts to about one-third part of the whole mass. In English literature, it cannot be less
than one-sixth part--perhaps more. Be it as it may, the SYSTEMATIC ARRANGEMENT of all that
has been revealed in that way, and of all that is dicoverable, is essential to the perfection
of literary history, of literary biography, and of bibliography.

At the present moment, I can only announce the project as a stimulus to unemployed aspirants,
and as a hint to fortunate collectors, to prepare for an exhibition of their cryptic treasures.--On
a future occasion I shall describe the plan of construction which seems more eligible--shall
briefly notice the scattered materials which it may be expedient to consult, whether in public
depositories, or in private hands--and shall make an appeal to those whose assistance may be
required, to enable a competent editor to carry out the plan with credit and success.

On the prevalence of anonymous writing, on its occasional convenience, and on its pernicious
consequences, I shall make no remarks. Facts, rather than arguments, should be the staple commodity
of an instructive miscellany.

BOLTON CORNEY.

Barnes Terrace, Surrey,

29th Oct., 1849.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES FROM FLY-LEAVES.--NO. 1.

Many scholars and reading-men are in the habit of noting down on the fly-leaves of their books
memoranda, sometimes critical, sometimes bibliographical, the result of their own knowledge
or research. The following are specimens of the kind of Notes to which we allude; and the possessors
of volumes enriched by the Notes and memoranda of men of learning to whom they formerly belonged,
will render us and our readers a most acceptable service by forwarding to us copies of them
for insertion.

Douce on John of Salisbury. MS. Note in a copy of Policraticus, Lug. Bat. 1639.

    "This extraordinary man flourished in the reign of Henry II., and
    was, therefore, of Old Salisbury, not of New Salisbury, which was
    not founded till the reign of Henry III. Having had the best
    education of the time, and being not only a genius, but intimate
    with the most eminent men, in particular with Pope Hadrian (who was
    himself an Englishman), he became at length a bishop, and died in
    1182. He had perused and studies most of the Latin classics, and
    appears to have decorated every part of his work with splendid
    fragments extracted out of them."--Harris's Philosophical
    Arrangements, p. 457.

See more relating to John of Salisbury in Fabricii, Bib. Med. AEtatis, iv. 380.; in Tanner,
Biblioth. Britannico Hibernica; in Baillet's Jugemens des Savans, ii. 204. See Senebier, Catalogue
des Manuscrits de Geneve, p. 226.

"Johannes Sarisb. multa ex Apuleio desumpsit," Almclooven, Plagiaror. Syllab. 36.; and it might
have been justly added, that he borrowed from Petronius. See the references I have made on
the last leaf.

Janus Dousa, in his Notes on Petronius, had called John of Salisbury "Cornicula;" but Thomasius,
in p. 240 of his work, De Plagio Literario, vindicates him satisfactorily. See Lipp. ad. Tacit.
Annal XII. (pezzi di porpora), not noticed by any editor of Petronius. Has various readings.
See my old edition.

  Lacrimas commodabat.
   ----    commendabat. Saris. better.

  Itaque cruciarii unius parentes
   ----  cruciati   ----  ----. Saris.

The above is from Zanetti's Collection of Ialian Novels, 4 vol. 8vo. Venet. 1754.

Mezeray, the French historian, translated this work 1640, 4to; and there is an old French translation
of it in 1360 by Denis Soulechat.

The article pasted on the inside of the cover (viz. the following
extract)
    "Surisberiensis (J.) Policraticus, &c., 8vo. L. Bat. 1595; very
    scarce, vellum 6s. This book is of great curiosity; it is stated in
    the preface that the author, J. of Salibury, was present at the
    murther of Thomas a Becket, whose intimate friend he was; and that
    'dum pius Thomas ab impio milite cedetur in capite, Johannis hujus
    brachium fere simul percisum est,'"
is from Lilly's Catalogue, and the passage relating to Becket was copied
from that of Payne, to whom I communicated it, and which is found in the
first edition only, being perhaps purposely omitted in all the others.

F.D.

    [We believe the majority of the books in Mr. Douce's valuable
    library, now deposited in the Bodleian, contain memoranda, like
    those in his John of Salisbury; and any of our Oxford friends
    could not do us a greater service than by communicating other
    specimens of the Book-noting of this able and zealous antiquary.]

       *       *       *       *       *

LIBER SENTENTIARUM.--INQUISITION OF THOULOUSE.

Mr. Editor,--In or about 1756, an ancient manuscript in folio, on vellum, was deposited in
the British Museum by Dr. Secker, then Bishop of Oxford, afterwards Archbishop of Canterbury,
and still, I take for granted, remains in that institution. It was intitled upon the cover,
Liber Sententiarum; but contained the Acts and Decisions of the Inquisition of Thoulouse, from
the year 1307 to 1323. It had been purchased by the contributions of the Archbishops of Canterbury
and York, of the Bishop of Oxford himself, and of various other prelates, the lord Chancellor,
the Speaker of the House of Commons of that time, the Viscount Royston, &c.

Can any of your readers inform me whether any or what portions of this manuscript have been
hitherto communicated to the world, either in the way of publication or translation, or of
abridgment, in whole or in part? An analysis of this manuscript would be interesting to many
readers of ecclesiastical history.

  INQUISITORIUS.

       *       *       *       *       *

NEW FACTS ABOUT LADY ARABELLA STUART.

The following extracts, from "The Declaration of the Accompte of Nicholas Pay, gentleman, appoynted
by warraunte of the righte honorable the lordes of the kinges ma'ts Privie Councell, to receave
and yssue sondrye somes of money for the provycon of dyett and other chardges of the ladye
Arbella Seymour, whoe by his hignes comaundemente and pleasure shoulde haue bene remoued into
the countye Palatyne of Duresme, under the chardge of the Reverende Father in God Will'm lorde
Bishpp of Duresme; but after was stayed and appointed to remayne at Eastbarnett duringe his
hignes good pleasure," are new to the history of this unfortunate lady. The account includes
all sums of money "receaved and yssued ffrom the xiiij'th daye of Marche 1610, untill the vij'th
daye of June 1611," and the account itself (as preserved in the Audit Office) "was taken and
declared before the right honorable Roberte Earle of Salisbury, Lord Highe Threas of Englande
and S'r Julius Caesar, Knighte, Chancellor and Under-Threas of Th'exchequer the xij'th of Ffebruary
1611" [1611/12]. The extracts throw some fresh light on her movements on her road from London
to Durham. At East Barnet, it is well known, she eluded the vigilance of her keepers, and threw
the king and council into the utmost consternation.

  PETER CUNNINGHAM.

    "Allowed for money payde for Dyett, lodginge and other necessarie
    chardges and expences of the said ladye Arbella Seymour and suche
    p'sons as were appointed to attende her in her journey into the
    countie Palatyne of Duresme: as hereafter followeth.

    "At Highgate for sixe days begonne the xv'th daye of Marche 1610 and
    ended the xxj'st of the same month, on w'ch day her ladishipp
    removed to Barnet--xviij'li. v'i. iij'd.

    "At Barnett for xj'th dayes begonne the xxj'st of March 1610 and
    ended the first of Aprill 1611, beinge that daye removed to
    Estbarnett--lxxj'li. v'i. viij'd.

    "Chardges of the Stable for the xvij'en dayes
    abovemenconed--xxxviij'li. x'i. ix'd.

    "Lodginge of some of the retinewe of the lady Arbella and the said
    lorde Bishopp, and for other necessaries duringe the xvij'en days
    aforesaid--xij'li. xix'i.

    "Ryding and postinge chardges--viz. for posthorses from Lambeth to
    Highgate and from thence to Barnett. To Mr. Beeston and others for
    their chardges three severall tymes to Barnett from London and from
    Highgate. To the servauntes of the lord bishp of Duresme sente at
    severall tymes to the lordes of the Councell and for other
    businesses concerninge this service; and to Sir James Crofte,
    Knight, for the chardges of himselfe, his men, and horses attendinge
    at London in this service--ix'li. xviij's. vj'd.

    "Rewardes to sondryre p'rsons, viz. to messengers sent from the
    Courte during the staye of the Lorde Bishopp at Highgate and
    Barnett. To diuerse p'rsons who tooke paynes at Highgate and
    Barnett. Geven in the Inne for glasses broken, and in rewardes to
    the meanar servauntes at Barnett, xxx's. &c. In all the some of
    xij'li. ix's. vj'd.

    "Also allowed to the sayde Accomptaunte for money by his owne handes
    yssued and payde in this service from the time of her ladishipps
    removinge from the Inne in Barnett to the house of Thomas Conyers
    Esquir in Estbarnett, as hereafter is menconed:

    "Expences of dyett for the lady Arbella her servauntes and others
    appointed to attende her at Estbarnett by the space of lxviij dayes
    begonne the first of April 1611, and ended the vij'th of June
    following at cix's. iij'd. p'r diem--ccclxxj'li. xj's. v'd.

    "Chardges of the Stable, viz.--for three lytter horses, one sumpter
    horse, and fyve coche horses for xxvj dayes at ij's. the horse by
    daye and night. For the Stable at Estbarnett for lxviij dayes
    begonne the first of Aprill 1611 and ended the vij'th of June
    followinge: and for hyer of a coche of Thomas Webster employed in
    this service by the space of xxiij dyes at xx's. per
    diem--lxxvij'li. vj's. ix'd.

    "Boardwages of Cochemen, Lyttermen and Sumpter-man and their men at
    viij's. and iij's. iij'd. and iij's. each per diem--l'li. x's.

    "Enterteynement to sondrye p'rsons appointed to attende the said
    lady Arbella Seymour. To Nicholas Pay the accomptaunte xxxv'li. x's.
    To William Lewen for his attendaunce in the office of caterer of
    poultrye at iiij's. per diem to himselfe and his horse. To Richarde
    Mathewe for his attendance in the butterye and pantrye at iij's. per
    diem for himselfe and his horse. To Thomas Mylles for his
    attendaunce in the larder and kitchen at iij's. per diem for
    himselfe and his horse--lxvj'li. ij's.

    "To rydinge and posting-chardges, viz. of Henry Mynors at severall
    tymes from Barnett to Whitehall and backe againe for dyreccons in
    this service from the lordes of the privie Councell xxxv's. and for
    post-horses to carye the ladye Arbella Seymour her servauntes from
    Barnett to London xvij's. For the hier of horses at severall tymes
    for S'r James Crofte betweene Barnett and London in attendinge the
    lordes of the Councell in this service xl's.--iiij'li. xij's.

    "For caryadges for removing the ladie Arbella and her companie
    from Lambeth to Highgate and from thence to Barnet,
    &c.--lxxviij'li. xv's.

    "In rewardes to sondrye p'rsons, viz. to the servauntes in Mr.
    Conyers house and laborers to make clean the house,
    &c.--iiij'li. xv's.

    "To Mathias Melwarde one of the Princes chaplaynes for his paynes in
    attending the ladye Arbella Seymour to preache and reade prayers
    duringe her aboade at Estbarnett--v'li.

    "Houserent paid to Thomas Conyers Equier, for the rent of his house
    in Estbarnett for the lady Arbella Seymour and her companie for x'en
    weekes at xx's. the week--x'li.

    "Payde out the Receipte of the Exchequier to thandes of the ladye
    Arbella Seymour for her own furnishinge in her journey into the
    Bishoprycke of Durham--cc'li.

    "Money payde to Thomas Moundeforde, Doctor of physicke and an
    Apothecarye appointed by order of the lordes of the privie Councell
    to geve their attendaunce uppon the saide lady Arbella: viz. for the
    enterteynement of the saide Doctor Moundeforde for cl'tie dayes
    begonne the viij'th of Ffebruarie 1610 and ended the vij'th of Julie
    following 1611 at xxx's. per diem--ccxxv'li.

    "Ffor the enterteynement of his Apothecarye for ninety dayes at
    xiij's. iiij'd. per diem--lx'li.

    "Ffor twoe cabbanetts furnished w'th thinges necessary and used in
    the tyme of the saide ladye Arbella for sycknes--xij'li.

    "For chardges of horsehier and other expences of the saide Doctor
    Moundeford--iij'li.

    "JUL. CAESAR."

       *       *       *       *       *

POEM MENTIONED IN ONE OF THE LANSDOWNE MSS.

In vol. 61. of the Lansdowne MSS. in the British Museum occurs the following remarkable letter
from the Bishop of London (John Aylmer) to Lord Burghley. I wish to be informed to what "foolish
rhime," which had been printed in Oxford and London, it applies? It is a question of some literary
importance to me at the present moment, and I am glad to have the opportunity of putting it
by means of your new hebdomadal undertaking. I hope to meet with a reply in your "NOTES AND
QUERIES" of next week.

    "To the Lord Treasurer,

    "Yt may please your good L. to understand, that upon inquiry made
    for the setting forth of this foolish rime, I finde that it was
    first printed at Oxford, by Joseph Barnes, and after here by Toby
    Cooke, without licence, who is now out of towne, but as sone as he
    returneth, I will talke with him about it. I marvell that they of
    Oxford will suffer such toyes to be sett forth by their authority;
    for in my opinion it had been better to have thanked God, than to
    have insulted upon men, and especially upon princes. And so I take
    my leave of your good L., praying God to send you health to his
    honour and all our good. From my pallace at London, this xxix'th of
    Aprill 1589.

    "Your good L. to command in X'o.,

    "JOHN LOND."

If the above refer to any production in verse upon the defeat of the Armada, Lord Burghley
(who had probably made inquiries of the Bishop) seems to have been actuated by some extraordinary
and uncalled-for delicacy towards the King of Spain. Waiting an explanation, I am your

HEARTY WELL-WISHER.

Lond. Oct. 23. 1849.

I cannot find that Aylmer's letter has ever been noticed by any of our literary antiquaries.

       *       *       *       *       *

MADOC'S EXPEDITION TO AMERICA.

Mr. Editor,--Can any of your readers direct me to the different authors who have treated of
the asserted expedition of Madoc to America; or to any Papers upon that subject which have
appeared in any Periodicals, or Transactions of learned societies.

A STUDENT.

       *       *       *       *       *

LORD CHATHAM'S SPEECH ON THE AMERICAN STAMP ACT.

Mr. Editor,--The following is an extract from Lord Brougham's Character of Chatham, vol. i. p. 27.

    "The Debates on the American Stamp Act in 1764 are the first that
    can be said to have been preserved at all, through the happy
    accident of Lord Charlemont, assisted by Sir Robert Dean, &c. &c.,
    and accordingly they have handed down to us some Notes of Lord
    Chatham's celebrated Speech upon that Question."

Can any of your readers inform me where these "NOTES" of this "celebrated speech" are to be found?

D.

       *       *       *       *       *

DORNE, THE BOOKSELLER.--HENNO RUSTICUS.

Sir,--I gladly avail myself of the "NOTES AND QUERIES," to request information on the following
points:--

I. Is any thing known, and especially from the writings of Erasmus, of a bookseller and publisher
of the Low Countries named Dorne, who lived at the beginning of the sixteenth century?

II. Is any thing known of a little work of early date, called Henno rusticus?

III. Or of another, called Of the sige (signe?) of the end?

Trusting that some of your readers will be enabled to throw light upon one or other of these
points,

I remain, &c.

W.

       *       *       *       *       *

BOOKS AND ODD VOLUMES WANTED TO PURCHASE.

JONES (EDMUND) GEOGRAPHICAL HISTORICAL, AND RELIGIOUS ACCOUNT OF ABERYSTWITH. 8vo. Trevecka. 1779.

CARTARI.--DA ROSA D'ORO PONTIFICIA, ETC. 4to. Rome. 1681.

SHAKSPEARE'S DRAMATIC WORKS.--The Fourth Volume of WHITTINGHAM's Edition, in 7 vols. 24mo.
Chiswick. They will see, on a very little reflection, that it is plainly his interest to take
all he can get, and make the most, and best, of everything; and therefore he begs them to take
for granted that their communications are received and appreciated, even if the succeeding
Number bears no proof of it. He is convinced that the want of specific acknowledgement will
only be felt by those who have no idea of the labour and difficulty attendant on the hurried
management of such a work, and of the impossibility of sometimes giving an explanation, when
there really is one which would quite satisfy the writer, for the delay or non-insertion of
his communication. Correspondents in such cases have no reason, and if they understood an editor's
position they would feel that they have no right, to consider themselves undervalued; but nothing
short of personal experience in editorship would explain to them the perplexities and evil
consequences arising from an opposite course.

       *       *       *       *       *

AUBERY JUNIOR The coincidence is certainly curious. When the 3rd of November was fixed for
the first appearance of "NOTES AND QUERIES," it was little thought that it was the anniversary
of the birth of John Aubrey, the most noted Querist, if not the queerest Noter, of all English
antiquaries. His "Mem. to ask Mr. ----" no doubt indirectly suggested our title.

PHILOBIBLION is thanked for his suggestion, that we should "print lists of all the books printed
by the Roxburgh, Abbotsford, Camden, Spottiswoode, and other publishing Clubs and Societies."
His suggestion had, however, been anticipated: arrangements are making for giving not only
the information suggested by PHILOBIBLION, but also particulars of the works issued by the
different Continental publishing Societies, such as  La Societe de L'Histoire de France, Der
Literaische Verein in Stuttgart, and the Svenska Fornskrift-Saellskap of Stockholm, so that
the English reader may be put into possession of facts connected with these Societies not to
be found elsewhere.

MANCHESTER (Box 720.) is thanked for his suggestion.

BOOKS AND ODD VOLUMES WANTED. We believe that this will prove one of the most useful divisions
of our weekly sheet. Gentlemen who may be unable to meet with any book or volume of which they
are in want may, upon furnishing name, date, size, &c., have it inserted in this List free
of cost. Persons having such volumes to dispose of are requested to send reports of price,
&c. to Mr. Bell, our publisher.

       *       *       *       *       *
       *       *       *       *       *

This day is published, price 2s. 6d.; by post, 3s.

ILLUSTRATIONS AND ENQUIRIES RELATING TO MESMERISM. Part I. By the Rev. S.R. Maitland, D.D.,
F.R.S., F.A.S.; sometime Librarian to the late Archbishop of Canterbury, and Keeper of the
MSS at Lambeth.

W. STEPHENSEN, 12. and 13. Parliament Street.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE CANADIAN SOCIETY FOR THE PUBLICATION OF EARLY HISTORICAL AND LITERARY REMAINS.

The following works are now ready for delivery to Members who have paid their Annual Subscription
of 1l., due on the first of May last.--

I. INEDITED LETTERS OF QUEEN ELIZABETH, AND KING JAMES VI. From the Originals in the possession
of the Rev. Edward Ryder, of Oaksey, Wilts., and from a MS. formerly belonging to Sir P. Thompson.
Edited by JOHN BRUCE, Esq. Treas. S.A.

II. THE CHRONICLE OF THE ABBEY OF PETERBOROUGH; from a MS. in the Library of the Society of
Antiquaries. Edited by THOMAS STAPLETON, Esq. F.S.A.

WILLIAM J. THOMS, Secretary.

Applications from Members who have not received their copies may be made to Messrs. Nichols.
25. Parliament Street, Westminster, from whom prospectuses of the Society (the annual subscription
to which is 1l.) may be obtained, and to whose care all communications for the Secretary should
be addressed.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SHAKESPEARE SOCIETY. THE CHANDOS PORTRAIT.

The engraving from the Chandos Portrait of Shakespeare by Mr. Cousins, A.R.A., is now ready
for delivery to Subscribers who have paid their Annual Subscription of 1l. for the years 1848
and 1849. Members in arrear, or persons desirous to become members, are requested to forward
their subscriptions to the Agent, Mr. SKEFFINGTON, Bookseller, 192. Piccadilly, immediately,
in order that the limited number of Prints may be delivered previously to the obliteration
of the plate.

By order of the Council,

F.G. TOMLINS, Secretary.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANTIQUARIAN GLEANINGS IN THE NORTH OF ENGLAND: being examples of antique furniture, plate,
church decoration, objects of historical interest, &c. Drawn and etched by W. B. SCOTT.

    "A collection of antiquarian relics, chiefly in the decorative
    branch of art, preserved in the Northern Counties, pourtrayed by a
    very competent hand. Many of the objects possess considerable
    interest; such as the chair of the Venerable Bede. Cromwell's sword
    and watch, and the grace cup of Thomas-a-Becket. All are drawn with
    that distinctness which makes them available for the Antiquarian,
    for the Artist who is studying costumes, and for the study of
    Decorative Art."--Spectator.

MEMOIRS OF MUSICK.

Just published, Royal 8vo., Part II., price 2s. 6d.

CHRISTIAN MONUMENTS IN ENGLAND AND WALES; an Historical and Descriptive Sketch of the various
classes of Monumental Memorials which have been in use in this country from about the time
of the Norman Conquest. Profusely illustrated with Wood Engravings. To be published in Four
Parts. Part I. price 7s. 6d., Part II. 2s. 6d. By the Rev. CHARLES BOUTELL, M.A., Rector of
Downham Market.

Also,

Royal 8vo., 10s. 6d.; large paper, 15s.

MONUMENTAL BRASSES AND SLABS: an Historical and Descriptive Notice of the Incised Monumental
Memorials of the Middle Ages. With upwards of 200 Engravings. Part I. containing Ten Plates,
5s. plain; 7s. 6d. coloured; to be completed in Three or Four Parts.

Also,

In parts, each containing twelve plates; Royal 8vo. 1s. 6d.; folio, 2s. 6d.; or, on India paper,
5s.

THE MONUMENTAL BRASSES OF ENGLAND; a Series of Engravings upon Wood, from every variety of
these interesting and valuable memorials, accompanied with brief descriptive notices.

Parts I. to XI. of this work are published: Part XII. will complete the volume.

    "In the numbers of the attractive work now before us, the perfection
    to which engraving on wood has been carried is strikingly shown. The
    amount of information conveyed in moderate compass, and at a most
    trifling cost, renders this collection of examples of costume, of
    decorative design, and of heraldry, highly acceptable. The minute
    and faithful exactness with which the smallest details are
    reproduced is a most valuable quality in these portraitures: their
    variety is striking: selected, in great part, from memorials hitherto
    unknown or imperfectly engraved, each number of M. Boutell's
    collection might form the text of a monograph on mediaeval costume
    in its three great divisions.--Military, Ecclesiastical, and
    Secular."--Archaeological Journal, vol. vi. p. 91.

GEORGE BELL, 186. Fleet Street.

       *       *       *       *       *

MR. BENTLEY'S NEW PUBLICATIONS, NOW READY.

I.

In Two Vols. post 8vo.

THE CITIES AND WILDS OF ANDALUCIA. By the Hon. R. DUNDAS MURRAY.

II.

In Three Vols. post 8vo.

HANDS NOT HEARTS. A Story of the Day. By Miss WILKINSON.

III.

In Two Vols. post 8vo.

TWENTY-FIVE YEARS' SERVICE IN THE HUDSON'S BAY TERRITORY. By JOHN MCLEAN.

IV.

In Three Vols. 8vo. price 21s. A Third Edition, with Additions, of

MR. WHITESIDE'S ITALY IN THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.

V.

In crown 8vo. price 6s. neatly bound.

THE SECOND VOLUME OF PRESCOTT'S HISTORICAL WORKS. Containing the Reign of Ferdinand and Isabella.
Vol. II.

N.B.--Mr. Prescott's Historical Works will be completed in eight monthly volumes.

VI.

In post 8vo. price 3s. 6d. neatly bound.

CAPTAIN MARRYAT'S ADVENTURES OF MONS. VIOLET.

RICHARD BENTLEY, New Burlington Street. (Publisher in Ordinary to Her Majesty.)

Oct. 31, 1849.

       *       *       *       *       *

Just published, in demy 8vo. embossed cloth, fine paper, with Illustrations, price 14s.

WESTMINSTER: Memorials of the City, its Palaces, Whitehall, Parish Churches, Worthies, St.
Peter's College, the Streets, Modern Buildings, and Ancient Institutions. By the Rev. MACKENZIE
E. C. WALCOTT, M.A., of Exeter College, Oxford, Curate of St. Margaret's, Westminster, and
Author of the History of that Church.

See Morning Post, May 17.; John Bull, June 2,; Critic, June 15.; Atlas, June 16.; Christian
Remembrancer, July 1.; Magazine of Science, Oct. 1.; West of England Conservative, Sept. 20.;
Ecclesiologist, Oct. 1.; Bentley's Miscellany, Oct. 1., &c.

London: J. MASTERS, 78. Bond Street.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTICE.--The VOLUME of the PROCEEDINGS of the ARCHAEOLOGICAL INSTITUTE at SALISBURY is now
in preparation, uniform with the former volumes. As few copies will be printed beyond those
which may be subscribed for, it is particularly requested that all who wish to have the Volume
will forward their names at once to the Secretary of the Institute, 26. Suffolk Street, or
to MR. BELL, 186. Fleet Street.

       *       *       *       *       *

ARCHAEOLOGICAL WORKS.

BY JOHN YONGE AKERMAN, Sec. 8vo. 15s.

JOHN RUSSELL SMITH, 4. Old Compton Street, Soho Square, London.

       *       *       *       *       *

Albemarle Street. Nov. 1849.

MR. MURRAY'S LIST OF FORTHCOMING WORKS.

LORD CAMPBELL: LIVES of the CHIEF JUSTICES of ENGLAND. From the Norman Conquest till the Death
of Lord Mansfield. 2 vols. 8vo.

M. GUIZOT: THE ENGLISH REVOLUTION of 1640-1688, and the Causes of its Success. Post 8vo.

GEORGE BORROW, ESQ.: LAVENGRO, an AUTO-BIOGRAPHY, 3 vols. post 8vo.

GEORGE GROTE, ESQ.: HISTORY of GREECE (continued). From the Peace of Nikias down to the Battle
of Knidus. (b.c. 421 to 394.) Maps. 2 vols. 8vo.

THOMAS H. DYER, ESQ.: LIFE of JOHN CALVIN. Compiled from authentic Sources, and particularly
from his Correspondence. Portrait. 8vo.

GEORGE TICKNOR, ESQ.: A HISTORY of SPANISH LITERATURE. With Criticism on particular Works,
and Biographical Notices of Prominent Writers. 3 vols. 8vo.

SIR HUMPHRY DAVY: CONSOLATIONS in TRAVEL, and SALMONIA, or DAYS of FLY FISHING. New Edition.
Beautifully printed. 2 vols. Fcp. 8vo.

AUTHOR of "BERTHA'S JOURNAL:" THE MINORITY of an HEIRESS; or, the Progress of Character. A
Work for Young Persons. 2 vols. 12mo.

DR. WM. SMITH: A NEW CLASICAL DICTIONARY, of GREEK and ROMAN MYTHOLOGY, BIOGRAPHY, and GEOGRAPHY.
For the Use of Colleges and Schools. One Volume, 8vo.

JOHN PAGET, ESQ.: HUNGARY and TRANSYLVANIA. With Remarks on their Condition, Social, Political,
and Economical. New Edition. Plates. 2 vols. 8vo.

JOSEPH MARRYAT, ESQ.: A HISTORY of POTTERY and PORCELAIN. With a Description of the Manufacture
from the Earliest Period in various Countries. Plates and Woodcuts. 8vo.

COLUMBUS: LIFE and VOYAGES of COLUMBUS, together with the VOYAGES of HIS COMPANIONS. By WASHINGTON
IRVING, Esq. A New Edition. Maps. 3 vols. 8vo.

JOHN MURRAY, Albemarle Street.

       *       *       *       *       *

NEW WORKS.

I.

SOUTHEY'S LIFE AND LETTERS. LIFE and CORRESPONDENCE of the late ROBERT SOUTHEY. Vol. I. containing
his early Autobiography, College Life, Scheme of Social Colonisation in America, Visit to Lisbon,
&c. Edited by his Son, the Rev. CHARLES CUTHBERT SOUTHEY, M.A. With Portrait and View of Keswick,
Cumberland. Post 8vo. 10s. 6d.

*** To be completed in Six Volumes, each embellished with a Family Portait and a Landscape.
Illustrated by W. Westall. Volume II. will be published at the end of December, and the succeeding
volumes every alternate month.

II.

SOUTHEY'S COMMONPLACE BOOK. Edited by his Son-in-law, the Rev. J. W. Warter. SECOND SERIES,
being "SPECIAL COLLECTIONS," and forming a Volume complete in itself. Square crown 8vo. [Nearly
Ready.

III.

An INQUIRY into the RISE and GROWTH of the ROYAL PREROGATIVE. By the late JOHN ALLEN, Master
of Dulwich College. A New Edition, with the Author's last Corrections: preceded by M. Berenger's
"Rapport" on the Work read before the Institute of France; and Article on the same from the
EDINBURGH REVIEW; and a Biographical Notice of the Author. To which is added, an Inquiry into
the Life and Character of King Eadwig, from the Author's MS. 8vo. 12s.

IV.

SIR EDWARD GRAHAM; or, Railway Speculators. By CATHERINE SINCLAIR, Author of "Modern Accomplishments,"
"Jane Bouverie," &c. 3 vols. post 8vo. 31s. 6d.

V.

NED ALLEN; or, the Past Age. By DAVID HANNAY, Esq. 2 vols. post 8vo. 21s.

VI.

SONGS, BALLADS, and SACRED SONGS. By THOMAS MOORE, First collected Edition. Uniform in size
with the smaller Edition of Mr. Macaulay's "Lays of Ancient Rome," and of Moore's "Lalla Rookh"
and "Irish Melodies." 16mo. with Vignette Title. 5s.

VII.

POETICAL WORKS of LETITIA ELIZABETH LANDON (L. E. L.) New Edition, uniform with the smaller
Edition of Mr. Maculay's "Lays of Ancient Rome," and of Moore's "Irish Melodies" and "Lalla
Rookh." 2 vols. 16mo. with Vignette Title. [Nearly Ready

VIII.

ASPECTS of NATURE, in Different Lands and Different Climates; with Scientific Elucidations.
By ALEXANDER VON HUMBOLDT. Translated by Mrs. SABINE. Uniform with the Cheap Edition of Sabine's
Authorised English Translation of Humboldt's "COSMOS," and with Mr. Murray's "HOME AND COLONIAL
LIBRARY." 2 vols. 16mo. 3s 6d. each, cloth.

IX. By the Rev. J. E. RIDDLE, M.A., of St. Edmund Hall, Oxford, Post 8vo. 50s. By C. D. YONGE.
Post 4to. 21s.

XI.

The EDUCATION of the FEELINGS. By CHARLES BRAY. 2nd Edit. 16mo. 2s. 6d.

