Malthus was not a thoroughgoing supporter of the 'do-nothing' doctrine. He approved of a national
system of education, and of the early factory acts, though only as applied to infant labour.
So, as we shall see, did all the Utilitarians. The 'individualism,' however, is not less decided;
and leads him to speak as though the elasticity of population were not merely an essential
factor in the social problem, but the sole principle from which all solutions must be deduced.
He is thus led, as I have tried to show, to a narrow interpretation of his 'moral check.' He
is apt to take 'vice' simply as a product of excessive pressure, and, in his general phrases
at least, to overlook its reciprocal tendency to cause pressure. The 'moral check' is only
preventive or negative, not a positive cause of superior vigour. A similar defect appears in
his theory of the vis medicatrix. He was, I hold, perfectly right in emphasising the importance
of individual responsibility. No reform can be permanent which does not raise the morality
of the individual. His insistence upon this truth was of the highest importance, and it is
to be wished that its importance might be more fully recognised to-day. The one-sidedness appears
in his proposal to abolish the poor-law simply. That became the most conspicuous and widely
accepted doctrine. All men of 'sense,' said Sydney Smith--certainly a qualified representative
of the class--in 1820, agree, first, that the poor-law must be abolished; and secondly, that
it must be abolished very gradually.[280] That is really to assume that by refusing to help
people at all, you will force them to help themselves. There is another alternative, namely,
that they may, as Malthus himself often recognises, become demoralised by excessive poverty.
To do simply nothing may lead to degeneration instead of increased energy. The possibility
of an improved law, which might act as a moral discipline instead of a simply corrupting agency,
is simply left out of account; and the tendency to stimulate reckless population is regarded
not only as one probable consequence, but as the very essence of all poor-laws. Upon Malthus's
assumptions, the statement that sound political and social theories must be based upon systematic
inquiry into facts, meant that the individual was the ultimate unalterable unit, whose interest
in his own welfare gave the one fulcrum for all possible changes. The ideal 'state of nature'
was a fiction. The true basis of our inquiries is the actual man known to us by observation.
The main fault of this being was the excess of the instinct of multiplication, and the way
to improve him was to show how it might conflict with the instinct of self-preservation. In
this shape the doctrine expressed the most characteristic tendency of the Utilitarians, and
divided them from the Socialists or believers in abstract rights of man.

VI. RENT

Here, then, we are at a central point of the Utilitarian creed. The expansive force of population
is, in a sense, the great motive power which moulds the whole social structure; or, rather,
it forces together the independent units, and welds them into an aggregate. The influence of
this doctrine upon other economical speculations is of the highest importance. One critical
stage in the process is marked by the enunciation of the theory of rent, which was to become
another essential article of the true faith. The introduction of this doctrine is characteristic,
and marks the point at which Ricardo superseded Malthus as chief expositor of the doctrine.

