       *       *       *       *       *

THE NATURALIST.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PEARL IN THE OYSTER.

Cowper eloquently says

    There is glory in the grass, and splendour in the flower;

and the imagery might have been extended to the irridescent pearl within the rudely-formed
shell of the oyster. Poets have feigned that pearls are

      Rain from the sky,
  Which turns into pearls as it falls in the sea;

we need scarcely add that science has exploded this imaginative fertility.

Pearl is, in fact, a calcareous secretion by the fish of bivalve shells; and principally by
such as inhabit shells of foliated structure, as sea and fresh water muscles, oysters, &c.
A pearl consists of carbonate of lime, in the form of nacre, and animal matter arranged in
concentric layers around a nucleus; the solution indicating no trace of any phosphate of lime.
To this lamellar structure the irridescence is to be ascribed. Each layer is presumed to be
annual; so that a pearl must be of slow growth, and those of large size can only be found in
full-grown oysters. The finest and largest are produced from the Meleagrina margaratifera,
(Lamarck,) a native of the sea, and of various coasts. A considerable number are likewise taken
from the Unio margaratifera, which inhabits the rivers of Europe; and, it is singular, as remarked
by Humboldt, that though several species of this genus abound in the rivers of South America,
no pearls are ever found in them. The pearls are situated in the body of the oyster, or they
lie loose between it and the shell; or, lastly, they are fixed to the latter by a kind of neck;
and it is said they do not appear until the animal has reached its fourth year.

Naturalists have much disputed the formation of pearls. Mr. Gray justly observes they are merely
the internal nacred coat of the shell, which has been forced, by some extraneous cause, to
assume a spherical form. Lister, on the other hand, states "a distemper in the creature produces
them," and compares them with calculi in the kidneys of man. But, as observed by a more recent
inquirer,[12] "though they are accidental formations, and, of course, not always to be found
in the shellfish which are known usually to contain them, still they are the products of a
regular secretion, applied, however, in an unusual way, either to avert harm or allay irritation.
That, in many instances they are formed by the oyster, to protect itself against aggression,
is evident; for, with a plug of this nacred and solid material it shuts out worms and other
intruders which have perforated the softer shell, and are intent on making prey of the hapless
inmate: and it was apparently the knowledge of this fact that suggested to Linnaeus his method
of producing pearls at pleasure, by puncturing the shell with a pointed wire. But this explanation
accounts only for the origin of such pearls as are attached to the shell; while the best and
greatest number, and, indeed, the only ones which can be strung, have no such attachment, and
are formed in the body of the animal itself. 'The small and middling pearls,' says Sir Alexander
Johnston, 'are formed in the thickest part of the flesh of the oyster, near the union of the
two shells; the large pearls almost loose in that part called the beard.' Now, these may be
the effect merely of an excess in the supply of calcareous matter, of which the oyster wishes
to get rid; or, they may be formed by an effusion of pearl, to cover some irritating and extraneous
body." The reality of the latter theory is strengthened, if not proved by the Chinese forcing
the swan muscle to make pearls by throwing into its shell, when open, five or six minute mother-of-pearl
beads, which, being left for a year, are found covered with a crust perfectly resembling the
real pearl. Such is one method of getting artificial pearls. The extraneous body which naturally
serves for the nucleus, appears to be very often, or, as Sir E. Home says, always, a blighted
ovum or egg. This theory which, however, is here but partly explained, has been fully adopted
by Sir E. Home:--"if," says the enthusiastic baronet, "I shall prove that this, the richest
jewel in a monarch's crown, which cannot be imitated by any art of man, either in the beauty
of its form or the brilliancy and lustre produced by a central illuminated cell, is the abortive
egg of an oyster enveloped in its own nacre, of which it receives annually a layer of increase
during the life of the animal, who will not be struck with wonder and astonishment?" And, we
must add, that the proofs are very much in favour of this conclusion.

    [12] The writer of An Introduction to the Natural History of
         Molluscous Animals, in a Series of Letters: one of the
         most delightful contributions to the Magazine of Natural
         History, since the establishment of that valuable
         journal.

       *       *       *       *       *

ROMAN TOMBS.

"Tombs," observes the clever author of Rome in the Nineteenth Century, "formed a far more prominent
feature in ancient communities than in ours. They were not crowded into obscure churchyards,
or hidden in invisible vaults, but were sedulously spread abroad in the most conspicuous places,
and by the sides of the public ways." Hence we may add, the "Siste Viator" (traveller, stop!)
so common upon tombs to this day. But why are not tombs placed by the roadside in our times?
"It would seem," says the writer just quoted, "as if these mementos of mortality were not so
painful or so saddening to Pagans as to Christians; and, that death, when believed to be final
dissolution, was not so awful or revolting as when known to be the passage to immortality.
I pretend not to explain the paradox, I only state it; and, certain it is, that every image
connected with human dissolution, seems now more fearful to the imagination, and is far more
sedulously shunned, than it ever was in times when the light of Christianity had not dawned
upon the world."[13]

    [13] Rome in the Nineteenth Century, vol. ii. letter 36.

The high-ways do not, however, appear to have been the earliest sites of tombs. According to
Fosbroke, "the veneration with which the ancients viewed their places of sepulture, seems to
have formed the foundation upon which they raised their boundless mythology; and, as is supposed,
with some probability, introduced the belief in national and tutelary gods, as well as the
practice of worshipping them through the medium of statues; for the places where their heroes
were interred, when ascertained, were held especially sacred, and frequently a temple erected
over their body, hallowed the spot. It was thus that the bodies of their fathers, buried at
the entrance of the house, consecrated the vestibule to their memory, and gave birth to a host
of local deities, who were supposed to hold that part of the dwelling under their peculiar
protection. Removed from the dwelling-houses to the highways, the tombs of the departed were
still viewed as objects of the highest veneration."[14]

    [14] Encyclopaedia of Antiquities, p. 64.

Our readers may remember that the ancient Romans never permitted the dead to be buried within
the city,[15] a practice well worthy the imitation of its modern inhabitants.

    [15] See an Interesting Inquiry on Burying in Vaults, by an
         esteemed Correspondent, since deceased--in vol. xv. of
         The Mirror.

The tombs of the Romans were characterized by their impressive grandeur. The Roman satirists,
Juvenal and Horace, censure the pomp and splendour of the tombs, particularly those on the
Via Appia. "On that 'Queen of Ways,' and way to the Queen of Cities, were crowded the proud
sepulchres of the most distinguished Romans: and their mouldering remains still attest their
ancient grandeur." Again, "those who have traced the long line of the Appian Way, between its
ruined and blackening sepulchres, or stood in the Street of Tombs that leads to the Gate of
Pompeii, and gazed on the sculptured magnificence of these marble dwellings of the dead, must
have felt their solemnity, and admired their splendour."[16]

    [16] Rome, &c., vol. ii.

Antiquarian writers have carefully classified the Roman tombs. We have, however, only space
to remark generally, that the sepulchres were either square, circular, or pyramidal buildings,
and with one entrance only, which was invariably on the side farthest from the public road.
They usually consisted of a vault in which the urns and sarcophagi were deposited, and a chamber
above, in which the statues or effigies of the dead were placed, and the libations and obsequies
performed. These sepulchres were usually places of family interment, but sometimes they were
solitary tombs. Of the latter description is the Tomb of Caecilia Metella, which is generally
acknowledged to be the most beautiful sepulchral monument in the world. It consists of a round
tower formed of immense blocks of Tiburtine stone, fixed together without cement, and adorned
with a Doric marble frieze, on which are sculptured rams' heads festooned with garlands of
flowers. "That they are rams' heads, must be evident to any one who will take the trouble to
examine them, though they are usually denominated the heads of oxen, because the tomb itself
is vulgarly called Capo di Bove. But this name is obviously derived from an ox's head, (the
arms of the Gaetani family, by whom it was converted into a fortress,) which was affixed many
centuries ago on the side of the tower next the Appian Way, and still remains there; and, accordingly,
the vulgar name is Capo di Bove, 'the head of the ox,' in the singular--not in the plural."

Forsyth refers to this tomb as the only one of the ancient structures that bears the name of
its tenant; this does not appear to be correct. The beautiful tower rests upon a square basement,
which has been despoiled of its exterior coating by Popes and other purloiners, but the greatest
part of it is buried beneath the soil. The wall of the tower itself, the interior of which
is entirely built of brick, is 20 feet at least in thickness. The sepulchral vault was below
the present level of the earth, and it was not until the time of Paul III. that it was opened,
when the beautiful marble sarcophagus of Caecilia Metella, now in the Palazzo Farnese, was
found in it. A golden urn, containing the ashes, is said to have been discovered at the same
time. That Caecilia Metella, for whose dust this magnificent monument was raised, was the daughter
of Metellus, and the wife of Crassus, is all we know. "Her husband, who was the richest and
meanest of the Romans, had himself no grave. He perished miserably with a Roman army in the
deserts of the East, in that unsuccessful expedition against the Parthians which has stamped
his memory with incapacity and shame."[17] The rude battlements on the top of the tower, and
all the old walls and fortifications which surround it, are the work of the Gaetani family,
who long maintained their feudal warfare here. Forsyth observes:--"Crassus built this tomb
of travertine stone 24 feet thick, to secure the bones of a single woman; while the adjoining
castle had but a thin wall of soft tufo to defend all the Gaetani from the fury of civil war."
Eustace says: "The solidity and simplicity of this monument are worthy of the republican era
in which it was erected, and have enabled it to resist and survive the lapse and incidents
of two thousand years."[18]

    [17] Rome, &c., vol. ii.

    [18] Classical Tour, vol. i., p. 407.

