Indeed, the whole question of species, as well as varieties, is likely to undergo material
modifications in the future. On some points the botanists and zoologists differ widely already,
many making likeness among individuals a secondary consideration, and genealogical succession
the absolute test of species. Others, on the contrary, make resemblance the fundamental rule,
and look upon habitual fecundity within hereditary limits as provisional, or answering to temporary
needs only. These differences of opinion would seem to be the more tenaciously held as the
question of new varieties presses for solution at the hands of nature, rather than by the agency
of man. All these varieties tend less to new races than to cluster about type-centres, and
can go no further than certain fixed limits of variation, beyond which all oscillations cease.
But none of these questions touch the real marrow of the controversy as to origin, or aid us
in determining the duration of species.

The presence of the two great families of trees--the sequoias and the oaks--as far back as
the Miocene period, if not extending through the Eocene into the Cretacious, is conclusive
of the point we would make, that no great evolutional changes have taken place in the last
two or three million years, and none are likely to take place in the next million years, except
that the Sequoia gigantea may drop out, from the vandalism of man or the next glacial drift.

M. Ch. Martins, in his "Voyage Botanique A(C)n Norwege," says "that each species of the vegetable
kingdom is a kind of thermometer which has its own zero." It may also be said to have its hygrometric
and telluric gauges, or instruments to determine the necessary conditions of moisture and soil-constituents.
When the temperature is below zero, the physiological functions of the plant are suspended,
either in temporary hybernation or death. And so when the hygrometric gauge falls below the
point of actual sustentation, the plant shrinks and dies; while, without the necessary conditions,
it would never have made its appearance. There was nothing more imperative in the command for
the earth to bring forth than the necessary conditions on which plant-life depended in the
first instance, and still depends, as we have endeavored to show.

Dr. J.G. Cooper, in an interesting article prepared by him at the expense of the Smithsonian
Institute, on the distribution of the forests and trees of North America, with notes and observations
on the physical geography, climate, etc., of the country, after classifying, arranging, and
tabulating the results of the various observations forwarded to that institution, indulges
in the following general observations: "We have with a tropical summer a tropical variety of
trees, but chiefly of northern forms. Again, with our arctic winters, we have a group of trees,
which, though of tropical forms, are so adapted to the climate as to lose their leaves, like
the northern forms, in winter. But, here, it must be distinctly understood, is no alteration
produced by climate. Trees are made for and not by climate, and they keep their characteristics
throughout their whole range, which with some extends through a great variety of climate."
The italics are the authors, and we suppose he means by "tropical" and "arctic," the sub-tropical
and sub-arctic.

In making his general observations, he had before him large collections of the leaves, fruits,
bark, and wood of trees from all parts of the United States, including portions of Mexico,
the Canadas and Alaska, and extending from the Atlantic to the Pacific. But one of the most
important elements--in fact, the most important--is wanting in the tables before us, and that
is, the elevation at which these thousands of specimens were obtained. So great an oversight
as this should not have occurred, although it may not have been entirely Dr. Cooper's fault.
He had his materials to work upon, and may have done the best that any one could with them.
And yet it is just as important to know at what elevation a particular tree grows in its own
plant zone, as to know whether it comes from a sub-arctic or sub-tropical region.

But this was not the comment we designed to make. Dr. Cooper labors, with most professional
botanists, under the delusion that all our plants and trees originated in some one "centre
of creation," at some period or other in time and place, and have been steadily spreading themselves
outward from that centre until they occupy their present areas of distribution. We have no
objection to his clinging to this superannuated faith and belief, if he derives any pleasure
in flushing up these "traditional grasshoppers." But we have a right to insist that he shall
be logical. He wants it distinctly understood that trees are made for, and not by, climate.
Then his "centre of creation" should be everywhere, not a localized one. For he insists that
no alteration can be produced by climate, but that the characteristics of each specific form
are preserved throughout its entire range of distribution. But if these nomadic and migratory
forms have wandered thus far from their centres of creation, it would seem that the trees had
either adapted themselves to the climate, or the climate to the trees. But our Smithsonian
systematizer will allow us neither horn of this dilemma. He insists that the trees were made
for the climate, and that they have preserved their characteristic features during their entire
ambulation upon the earth's surface.

With the change of a single monosyllabic predicate, this proposition is undoubtedly true. We
have never heard that plants or trees were "made." They were ordered "to grow," or rather the
earth was commanded to bring them forth, which is an equivalent induction. And the fact that
they grow now, renders it absolutely certain that they grew at first, when "out of the ground
made the Lord God to grow" every plant of the field, and every tree that is pleasant to the
sight. We accept this genesis for the want of a better. And if Dr. Cooper will add to his climatic
conditions, the hygrometric and other conditions necessary for the development and growth of
his plants and trees, we will agree with him to the fullest extent of his novel position--that
trees neither adapt themselves to the climate, nor the climate to the trees; although it is
true that trees modify climate quite as much as they are modified by it. The true physiological
formula is undoubtedly this:--Trees make their appearance in climatic and other environing
conditions, and flourish, without material change in characteristics, so long as these conditions
favor. Why they make their appearance is not a debatable question, except as we assume a preA"xisting
vital principle, and apply to its elucidation our subtlest dialectical methods. We are told
that God commanded the earth to bring them forth, after his spirit (the animating soul of life)
had moved upon the face of the depths--the chaotic and formless mass of the earth in the beginning.
Plato has uttered no profounder or more comprehensive truth than this, with all his conceptions
of Deity and the perfect archetypal world after which he conceived our own to be modeled. Our
preference for the Bible genesis over the Platonic conception is, that it is vastly simpler
and constitutes a more objective reality to the human soul.

Chapter VII.

What Is Life? Its Various Theories.

The question, "What is life?" does not lie within the province of human reason, the science
of logic, or the intuitions of consciousness, to determine. It furnishes no objective datum
on which to predicate attributes that are either congruent or diverse. It can only be defined
as the coordination of the vis vitae in nature, which is an undisguised form of reasoning in
a circle. We can ascribe to it only such attributes as are utterly inconceivable in any other
concept or object of thought. It admits of but one attribution, and that embracing an identical
proposition. To say of life that it is "a coArdination of action," might be true as a partial
judgment, but not as a comprehensive one; otherwise, crystallization would fall under its category,
which is manifestly an illicit induction. It allows, therefore, of no possible explication,
analysis, or separate logical predicament. It stands absolutely alone and apart by itself--a
positive, self-subsistent vital principle, or process of action, which all physiologists agree,
for the sake of convenience and uniformity of expression, in designating as a power, property,
force, etc., in nature. Whenever questioned as to its origin the subtlest and profoundest intellects,
in all ages of the world, have returned but one answer: "I know no possible origin but God"--the
great primal source of all life in the universe.

Among the ancients we find an almost equivalent induction in the phrases, borrowed by them
from the highest antiquity, "Jupiter est genitor," "Jupiter est quodcunque vivit," etc., which,
although uninspired utterances, strike their roots deeply into the terra incognita of consciousness,
wherein we ascribe to God the "issues of life" as a paramount theological conception. When
the ingenious and learned Frenchman defined life as "the sum of all the functions by which
death is resisted," he was as conclusively indulging in the argumentum in circulo as if he
had said, "Life is the antithesis of what is not life." This would be as luminous a definition
as that which should make Theism the opposite of Anti-theism, or the Algebraic statement x-y
the antithesis of x+y--one of no definitional value so long as there is no known quantity expressed
in the formula.

To begin with begging the question, and then adroitly whipping the argument about a pivotal
point, as a boy would whip a top, may be amusing enough to the childish mind, but is manifestly
making no more progress in logic than to substitute an ingenious paraphrase of a term for its
real definition. It is a mere verbal feat at best, without the possibility of reaching any
determinate judgment. It is like some of the half-circular phrases we are likely to meet with
in the categories of modern materialistic science, such as the "correlated correlates of motion,"
the "potentiated potentialities of sky-mist," the "undifferentiated differentialities of life-stuff,"
called, by special condescension on the part of the materialists, "life." All of which is an
easy logic, but a whimsical enough way of putting it.

