The following announcement was published in a London periodical, dated August 1, 1802:—“The
Surrey Iron Railway is now completed over the high road through Wandsworth town.  On Wednesday,
June 8, several carriages of all descriptions passed over the iron rails without meeting with
the least obstacle.  Among these, the Portsmouth wagon, drawn by eight horses and weighing
from eight to ten tons, passed over the rails, and did not appear to make the slightest impression
upon them.”

MERTHYR TYDVIL RAILWAY.

An Act of Parliament was granted for a railway to Merthyr Tydvil in 1803, and the following
year the first locomotive which ran on a railway is described in a racy manner by the Western
Mail, as follows:—“Quaint, rattling, puffing, asthmatic, and wheezy, the pioneer of ten thousand
gilding creations of beauty and strength made its way between the white-washed houses of the
old tramway at Merthyr.  It has a dwarf body placed on a high framework, constructed by the
hedge carpenter of the place in the roughest possible fashion.  The wheels were equally rough
and large, and surmounting all was a huge stack, ugly enough when it was new, but in after
times made uglier by whitewash and rust.  Every movement was made with a hideous uproar, snorting
and clanking, and this, aided by the noise of the escaping steam, formed a tableau from which,
met in the byeway, every old woman would run with affright.  The Merthyr locomotive was made
jointly by Trevithick, a Cornishman, and Rees Jones, of Penydarran.  The day fixed for the
trial was the 12th of February, 1804, and the track a tramway, lately formed from Penydarran,
at the back of Plymouth Works, by the side of the Troedyrhiw, and so down to the navigation.
Great was the concourse assembled; villagers of all ages and sizes thronged the spot; and the
rumour of the day’s doings even penetrated up the defiles of Taff Vawr and Taff Vach, bringing
down old apple-faced farmers and their wives, who were told of a power and a speed that would
alter everything, and do away with horses altogether.  Prim, cosy, apple-faced people, innocent
and primitive, little thought ye then of the changes which the clanking monster was to yield;
how Grey Dobbin would see flying by a mass of wood and iron, thousands of tons of weight, bearing
not only the commerce of the country, but hundreds of people as well; how rivers and mountains
would afford no obstacle, as the mighty azure waves leap the one and dash through the other.
On the first engine and trains that started on the memorable day in February, twenty persons
clustered like bees, anxious, we learn in the ‘History of Merthyr,’ to win immortality by being
thus distinguished above all their fellows; the trains were six in number, laden with iron,
and amidst a concourse of villagers, including the constable, the ‘druggister,’ and the class
generally dubbed ‘shopwors’ by the natives, were Richard Crawshay and Mr. Samuel Homfray. 
The driver was one William Richards, and on the engine were perched Trevithick and Rees Jones,
their faces black, but their eyes bright with the anticipation of victory.  Soon the signal
was given, and amidst a mighty roar from the people, the wheels turned and the mass moved forward,
going steadily at the rate of five miles an hour until a bridge was reached a little below
the town that did not admit of the stack going under, and as this was built of bricks, there
was a great crash and instant stoppage.  Trevithick and Jones were of the old-fashioned school
of men who did not believe in impossibilities.  The fickle crowd, too, who had hurrahed like
mad, hung back and said ‘It won’t do’; but these heroes, the advance-guard of a race who had
done more to make England famous than battles by land or sea, sprang to the ground and worked
like Britons, never ceasing until they had repaired the mishap, and then they rattled on, and
finally reached their journey’s end.  The return journey was a failure, on account of gradients
and curves, but the possibility of success was demonstrated; and from this run on the Merthyr
tramway the railway age—marked with throes and suspense, delays, accidents, and misadventures—finally
began.”

AN AFFRIGHTED TOLL-KEEPER.

There is a story told by Coleridge about the steam engine which Trevithick exhibited at work
on a temporary railroad in London. Trevithick and his partner Captain Vivian, prior to this
exhibition were riding on the carriage on the turnpike road near to Plymouth.  It had committed
sundry damage in its course, knocking down the rails of a gentleman’s garden, when Vivian saw
the toll-bar in front of them closed he called to Trevithick to slacken speed which he did
just in time to save the gate.  The affrighted toll-keeper instantly opened it.  “What have
us got to pay?” asked Captain Vivian, careful as to honesty if reckless as to grammar.

“Na-na-na-na!” stammered the poor man, trembling in every limb, with his teeth chattering as
if he had got the ague.

“What have us got to pay, I ask?”

“Na-noth-nothing to pay!  My de-dear Mr. Devil, do drive as fast as you can!  Nothing to pay!”

AN EARLY RAILWAY.

More than twenty years before the opening of the Liverpool and Manchester Railway, the celebrated
engineer Trevithick constructed, not only a locomotive engine, but also a railway, that the
London public might see with their own eyes what the new high pressure steam engine could effect,
and how greatly superior a railway was to a common road for locomotion. The sister of Davies
Gilbert named this engine “Catch me who can.”  The following interesting account in a letter
to a correspondent was given by John Isaac Hawkins, an engineer well known in his day.

“Sir,—Observing that it is stated in your last number (No. 1232, dated the 20th instant, page
269), under the head of ‘Twenty-one Years’ Retrospect of the Railway System,’ that the greatest
speed of Trevithick’s engine was five miles an hour, I think it due to the memory of that extraordinary
man to declare that about the year 1808 he laid down a circular railway in a field adjoining
the New Road, near or at the spot now forming the southern half of Euston Square; that he placed
a locomotive engine, weighing about ten tons, on that railway—on which I rode, with my watch
in hand—at the rate of twelve miles an hour; that Mr. Trevithick then gave his opinion that
it would go twenty miles an hour, or more, on a straight railway; that the engine was exhibited
at one shilling admittance, including a ride for the few who were not too timid; that it ran
for some weeks, when a rail broke and occasioned the engine to fly off in a tangent and overturn,
the ground being very soft at the time.  Mr. Trevithick having expended all his means in erecting
the works and enclosure, and the shillings not having come in fast enough to pay current expenses,
the engine was not again set on the rail.”

SHREWD OBSERVERS.

Sir Richard Phillips was a man of foresight, for, in the year 1813, he wrote the following
words in his “Morning Walk to Kew,” a book of some popularity in its day:—“I found delight
in witnessing at Wandsworth the economy of horse labour on the iron railway.

The celebrated Cuvier, in an address delivered by him before the French Institute in the year
1816, thus referred to the nascent locomotive:—“A steam engine, mounted upon a carriage whose
wheels indent themselves along a road specially prepared for it, is attached to a line of loaded
vehicles.  A fire is lit underneath the boiler, by which the engine is speedily set in motion,
and in a short time the whole are brought to their journey’s end.  The traveller who, from
a distance, first sees this strange spectacle of a train of loaded carriages traversing the
country by the simple force of steam, can with difficulty believe his eyes.”

The locomotive thus described by Cuvier was the first engine of the kind regularly employed
in the working of railway traffic.  It was impelled by means of a cogged wheel, which worked
into a cogged rail, after the method adopted by Mr. Blenkinsop, upon the Middleton Coal Railway,
near Leeds; and the speed of the train which it dragged behind it was only from three to four
miles an hour.

Ten years later, the same power and speed of the locomotive were still matters of wonderment,
for, in 1825, we find Mr. Mackenzie, in his “History of Northumberland” thus describing the
performances on the Wylam Coal Railroad:—“A stranger,” said he, “is struck with surprise and
astonishment on seeing a locomotive engine moving majestically along the road at the rate of
four or five miles an hour, drawing along from ten to fourteen loaded wagons, weighing about
twenty-one-and-a-half tons; and his surprise is increased on witnessing the extraordinary facility
with which the engine is managed.  This invention is indeed a noble triumph of science.”

In the same year, the first attempt was made to carry passengers by railway between Stockton
and Darlington.  A machine resembling the yellow caravan still seen at country fairs was built
and fitted up with seats all round it, and set upon the rails, along which it was drawn by
a horse.  It was found exceedingly convenient to travel by, and the number of passengers between
the two towns so much increased that several bodies of old stage coaches were bought up, mounted
upon railway wheels, and added to the carrying stock of the Stockton and Darlington Company.
At length the horse was finally discarded in favour of the locomotive, and not only coals and
merchandise, but passengers of all classes, were drawn by steam.

                                                          —Railway News.

A RAILWAY PROJECTOR.

In the year 1819, Thomas Gray—a deep thinker with a mind of comprehensive grasp—was travelling
in the North of England when he saw a train of coal-wagons drawn by steam along a colliery
tramroad.  “Why,” he questioned the engineer, “are not these tramroads laid down all over England,
so as to supersede our common roads, and steam engines employed to convey goods and passengers
along them, so as to supersede horse power?”  The engineer replied, “Just propose you that
to the nation, sir, and see what you will get by it!  Why, sir, you will be worried to death
for your pains.”  Nothing daunted by this reply, Thomas Gray could scarcely think or talk upon
any other subject.  In vision he saw the country covered with a network of tramroads.  Before
his time the famous Duke of Bridgewater might have some misgivings about his canals.  It is
related on a certain occasion some one said to him, “You must be making handsomely out of your
canals.”  “Oh, yes,” grumbled he in reply, “they will last my time, but I don’t like the look
of these tramroads; there’s mischief in them.”  Mr. Gray, with prophetic eye, saw the great
changes which the iron railway would make in the means of transit throughout the civilized
world.  He evidently anticipated that the locomotive of the future would be capable of going
at a considerable speed, for on the plate is engraved these lines:—

    “No speed with this can fleetest horse compare;
    No weight like this canal or vessel bear.
    As this will commerce every way promote,
    To this let sons of commerce grant their vote.”

Mr. Gray in his book exhibits a marvellous insight into the wants and requirements of the country.
He remarks, “The plan might be commenced between the towns of Manchester and Liverpool, where
a trial could soon be made, as the distance is not very great, and the commercial part of England
would thereby be better able to appreciate its many excellent properties and prove its efficacy.
All the great trading towns of Lancashire and Yorkshire would then eagerly embrace the opportunity
to secure so commodious and easy a conveyance, and cause branch railways to be laid down in
every possible direction.  The convenience and economy in the carriage of the raw material
to the numerous manufactories established in these counties, the expeditious and cheap delivery
of piece goods bought by the merchants every week at the various markets, and the despatch
in forwarding bales and packages to the outposts cannot fail to strike the merchant and manufacturer
as points of the first importance.  Nothing, for example, would be so likely to raise the ports
of Hull, Liverpool, and Bristol to an unprecedented pitch of prosperity as the establishment
of railways to those ports, thereby rendering the communication from the east to the west seas,
and all intermediate places, rapid, cheap, and effectual.  Anyone at all conversant with commerce
must feel the vast importance of such an undertaking in forwarding the produce of America,
Brazils, the East and West Indies, etc., from Liverpool and Bristol, via Hull, to the opposite
shores of Germany and Holland, and, vice versa, the produce of the Baltic, via Hull, to Liverpool
and Bristol.  Again, by the establishment of morning and evening mail steam carriages, the
commercial interest would derive considerable advantage; the inland mails might be forwarded
with greater despatch and the letters delivered much earlier than by the extra post; the opportunity
of correspondence between London and all mercantile places would be much improved, and the
rate of postage might be generally diminished without injuring the receipts of the post office,
because any deficiency occasioned by a reduction in the postage would be made good by the increased
number of journeys which mail steam carriages might make. The London and Edinburgh mail steam
carriages might take all the mails and parcels on the line of road between these two cities,
which would exceedingly reduce the expense occasioned by mail coaches on the present footing.
The ordinary stage coaches, caravans, or wagons, running any considerable distance along the
main railway, might also be conducted on peculiarly favourable terms to the public; for instance,
one steam engine of superior power would enable its proprietors to convey several coaches,
caravans, or wagons, linked together until they arrive at their respective branches, when other
engines might proceed on with them to their destination.  By a due regulation of the departure
and arrival of coaches, caravans, and wagons along these branches the whole communication throughout
the country would be so simple and so complete as to enable every individual to partake of
the various productions of particular situations, and to enjoy, at a moderate expense every
improvement introduced into society.  The great economy of such a measure must be obvious to
everyone, seeing that, instead of each coach changing horses between London and Edinburgh,
say twenty-five times, requiring a hundred horses, besides the supernumerary ones kept at every
stage in case of accidents, the whole journey of several coaches would be performed with the
simple expense of one steam engine.  No animal strength will be able to give that uniform and
regular acceleration to our commercial intercourse which may be accomplished by railways; however
great animal speed, there cannot be a doubt that it would be considerably surpassed by mail
steam carriages, and that the expense would be infinitely less.  The exorbitant charge now
made for small parcels prevents that natural intercourse of friendship between families resident
in different parts of the kingdom, in the same manner as the heavy postage of letters prevents
free communication, and consequently diminishes very considerably the consumption of paper
which would take place under a less burdensome taxation.”

Mr. Gray’s book would no doubt excite ridicule and amazement when published sixty years ago.
The farmers of that day might well be excused for incredulity when perusing a passage like
the following:—“The present system of conveyance,” says Mr. Gray, “affords but tolerable accommodation
to farmers, and the common way in which they attend markets must always confine them within
very limited distances.  It is, however, expected that the railway will present a suitable
conveyance for attending market-towns thirty or forty miles off, as also for forwarding considerable
supplies of grain, hay, straw, vegetables, and every description of live stock to the metropolis
at a very easy expense, and with the greatest celerity, from all parts of the kingdom.”

A writer in Chambers’s Journal, 1847, remarks:—“It was not until after four or five years of
agitation, and several editions of Mr. Gray’s work had been published and successively commented
upon by many newspapers, that commercial men were roused to give the proposed scheme its first
great trial on the road between Liverpool and Manchester.  The success of that experiment,
insured by the engineering skill of Stephenson, was the signal for all that has since been
done both in this island and in other parts of the world.  Unfortunately, the public has been
too busy these many years in making railways to inquire to whom it owes its gratitude for having
first expounded and advocated their claims; and probably there are few men now living who have
served the public as effectually, with so little return in the way of thanks or applause, as
Mr. Thomas Gray, the proposer in 1820 of a general system of transit by railways.”

Poor Gray!  He was far ahead of his times.  Public men called him a bore, and people in Nottingham,
where he resided, said he was cracked.  The Quarterly Review declared such persons are not
worth our notice, and the Edinburgh Review said “Put him in a straight jacket.”  Thus the world
is often ignorant of its greatest benefactors.  Gray died in poverty.  His widow and daughters
earned their living by teaching a small school at Exeter.

OPENING OF THE DARLINGTON AND STOCKTON RAILWAY.

In the autumn of 1825 the Times gave an account of the origin of one of the most gigantic enterprises
of modern times.  In that year the Darlington and Stockton Railway was formally opened by the
proprietors for the use of the public.  It was a single railway, and the object of its promoters
was to open the London market to the Durham Collieries, as well as to facilitate the obtaining
of fuel to the country along its line and certain parts of Yorkshire.  The account of the opening
says:—

A train of carriages was attached to a locomotive engine of the most improved construction,
and built by Mr. George Stephenson, in the following order:—(1) Locomotive engine, with the
engineer and assistants; (2) tender with coals and water; next six wagons loaded with coals
and flour; then an elegant covered coach, with the committee and other proprietors of the railway;
then 21 wagons fitted up on the occasion for passengers; and, last of all, six wagons loaded
with coals, making altogether a train of 38 carriages, exclusive of the engine and tender.
Tickets were distributed to the number of nearly 300 for those whom it was intended should
occupy the coach and wagons; but such was the pressure and crowd that both loaded and empty
carriages were instantly filled with passengers.  The signal being given, the engine started
off with this immense train of carriages.  In some parts the speed was frequently 12 miles
per hour, and in one place, for a short distance, near Darlington, 15 miles per hour, and at
that time the number of passengers was counted to 450, which, together with the coals, merchandise,
and carriages, would amount to nearly 90 tons.  After some little delay in arranging the procession,
the engine, with her load, arrived at Darlington a distance of eight miles and three-quarters,
in 65 minutes, exclusive of stops, averaging about eight miles an hour.

EARLY RAILWAY COMPETITION.

The first Stockton and Darlington Act gave permission to all parties to use the line on payment
of certain rates.  Thus private individuals might work their own horses and carriages upon
the railway and be their own carriers.

The Editor of The Scotsman, having engaged in researches into the laws of friction established
by Vince and Coloumb, published the results in a series of articles in his journal in 1824
showing how twenty miles an hour was, on theoretic grounds, within the limits of possibility;
and it was to his writings on this point that Mr. Nicholas Wood alluded when he spoke of the
ridiculous expectation that engines would ever travel at the rate of twenty, or even twelve
miles an hour.

ALARMIST VIEWS.

A writer in the Quarterly Review, in 1825, was quite prophetical as to the dangers connected
with railway travelling.  He observes:—“It is certainly some consolation to those who are to
be whirled at the rate of 18 or 20 miles an hour by means of a high-pressure engine, to be
told that there is no danger of being sea-sick while on shore, that they are not to be scalded
to death, nor drowned, nor dashed to pieces by the bursting of a boiler; and that they need
not mind being struck by the flying off or breaking of a wheel.  Sir Isaac Coffin seconded
the motion, indignantly denouncing the project as fraught with fraud and imposition.  He would
not consent to see widows’ premises invaded, and “how,” he asked, “would any person like to
have a railroad under his parlour window? . . .  What, he would like to know, was to be done
with all those who had advanced money in making and repairing turnpike-roads?  What with those
who may still wish to travel in their own or hired carriages, after the fashion of their forefathers?

At the present day it is amusing to read the speeches of the counsel employed against an act
of Parliament being passed in favour of the railway between Liverpool and Manchester.  The
learned Sergeant says, he should like to have seven, but he would be content to go six.  I
will show you he cannot go six; and probably, for any practical purposes, I may be able to
show, that I can keep up with him by the canal.  Now the real evidence to which you alone can
pay attention shows, that practically, and for useful purposes, upon the average, and to keep
up the rate of speed continually, they may go at something more than four miles an hour.  In
one of the collieries, there is a small engine with wheels four feet in diameter, which, with
moderate weights has gone six; but I will not admit, because, in an experiment or two, they
may have been driven at the rate of seven or eight miles an hour—because a small engine has
been driven at the rate of six, that this is the average rate at which they can carry goods
upon a railroad for the purpose of commerce, for that is the point to which the Committee ought
to direct their attention, and to which the evidence is to be applied.  It is quite idle to
suppose, that an experiment made to ascertain the speed, when the power is worked up to the
greatest extent, can afford a fair criterion of that which an engine will do in all states
of the weather.  I say so, for a scientific person happened to see a locomotive engine coming
down an inclined plane, with a tolerable weight behind it, and he found that the strokes were
reduced from fifty to twelve, as soon as the wind acted upon it; so that every gale that would
produce an interruption to the intercourse by the canals, would prevent the progress of a locomotive
engine, so that they have no advantage in that respect.”

DIFFICULTIES ENCOUNTERED IN MAKING RAILWAY SURVEYS.

Difficulties connected with making surveys of land were encountered from the very commencement
of railway enterprise.  The following dialogue on the subject took place in the Committee of
the House of Commons, April 27, 1825.  Mr. Sergeant Spankie was the questioner and George Stephenson
was the respondent.

Q.  “You were asked about the quality of the soil through which you were to bore in order to
ascertain the strata, and you were rather taunted because you had not ascertained the precise
strata; had you any opportunity of boring?”

A.  “I had none; I was threatened to be driven off the ground, and severely used if I were
found upon the ground.”

Q.  “You were right, then, not to attempt to bore?”

A.  “Of course, I durst not attempt to bore, after those threats.”

Q.  “Were you exposed to any inconvenience in taking your surveys in consequence of these interruptions?”

A.  “We were.”

Q.  “On whose property?”

A.  “On my Lord Sefton’s, Lord Derby’s, and particularly Mr. Bradshaw’s part.”

Q.  “I believe you came near the coping of some of the canals?”

A.  “I believe I was threatened to be ducked in the pond if I proceeded; and, of course we
had a great deal of the survey to make by stealth, at the time the persons were at dinner;
we could not get it by night, and guns were discharged over the grounds belonging to Captain
Bradshaw, to prevent us; I can state further, I was twice turned off the ground myself (Mr.
Bradshaw’s) by his men; and they said, if I did not go instantly they would take me up, and
carry me off to Worsley.”

Committee.  Q.  “Had you ever asked leave?”

A.  “I did, of all the gentlemen to whom I have alluded; at least, if I did not ask leave of
all myself, I did of my Lord Derby, but I did not of Lord Sefton, but the Committee had—at
least I was so informed; and I last year asked leave of Mr. Bradshaw’s tenants to pass there,
and they denied me; they stated that damage had been done, and I said if they would tell me
what it was, I would pay them, and they said it was two pounds, and I paid it, though I do
not believe it amounted to one shilling.”

Q.  “Do you suppose it is a likely thing to obtain leave from any gentleman to survey his land,
when he knew that your men had gone upon his land to take levels without his leave, and he
himself found them going through the corn, and through the gardens of his tenants, and trampling
down the strawberry beds, which they were cultivating for the Liverpool market?”

A.  “I have found it sometimes very difficult to get through places of that kind.”

In some cases, Mr. Williams remarks, large bodies of navvies were collected for the defence
of the surveyors; and being liberally provided with liquor, and paid well for the task, they
intimidated the rightful owners, who were obliged to be satisfied with warrants of committal
and charges of assault.  The navvies were the more willing to engage in such undertakings,
because the project, if carried out, afforded them the prospect of increased labour.

LIVERPOOL AND MANCHESTER RAILWAY.

Mr. C. F. Adams, jun., remarks:—“It was this element of spontaneity, therefore,—the instant
and dramatic recognition of success, which gave a peculiar interest to everything connected
with the Manchester and Liverpool railroad.  The whole world was looking at it, with a full
realizing sense that something great and momentous was impending.  Every day people watched
the gradual development of the thing, and actually took part in it.  In doing so they had sensations
and those sensations they have described.  There is consequently an element of human nature
surrounding it.  To their descriptions time has only lent a new freshness.  They are full of
honest wonder.  They are much better and more valuable and more interesting now than they were
fifty years ago, and for that reason are well worth exhuming.

“To introduce the contemporaneous story of the day, however, it is not necessary even to briefly
review the long series of events which had slowly led up to it.  The world is tolerably familiar
with the early life of George Stephenson, and with the vexatious obstacles he had to overcome
before he could even secure a trial for his invention.  The man himself, however, is an object
of a good deal more curiosity to us, than he was to those among whom he lived and moved.  A
living glimpse at him now is worth dwelling upon, and is the best possible preface to any account
of his great day of life triumph.  Just such a glimpse of the man has been given to us at the
moment when at last all difficulties had been overcome—when the Manchester and Liverpool railroad
was completed; and, literally, not only the eyes of Great Britain but those of all civilized
countries were directed to it and to him who had originated it.  At just that time it chanced
that the celebrated actor, John Kemble, was fulfilling an engagement at Liverpool with his
daughter, since known as Mrs. Frances Kemble Butler.  The extraordinary social advantages the
Kemble family enjoyed gave both father and daughter opportunities such as seldom come in the
way of ordinary mortals.  For the time being they were, in fact, the lions of the stage, just
as George Stephenson was the lion of the new railroad.  As was most natural the three lions
were brought together.  The young actress has since published her impressions, jotted down
at the time, of the old engineer.  Her account of a ride side by side with George Stephenson,
on the seat of his locomotive, over the as yet unopened road, is one of the most interesting
and life-like records we have of the man and the enterprise.  Perhaps it is the most interesting.
The company by whom the ceremony is to be performed, is expected to amount to eight or nine
hundred persons, including the Duke of Wellington and several others of the nobility.  They
will leave Liverpool at an early hour in the forenoon, probably ten o’clock, in carriages drawn
by eight or nine engines, including the new engine of Messrs. Braithwaite and Ericsson, if
it be ready in time.  The other engines will be those constructed by Mr. Stephenson, and each
of them will draw about a hundred persons.  On their arrival at Manchester, the company will
enter the upper stories of the warehouses by means of a spacious outside wooden staircase,
which is in course of erection for the purpose by Mr. Bellhouse.  The upper storey of the range
of warehouses is divided into five apartments, each measuring sixty-six feet by fifty-six.
In four of these a number of tables (which Mr. Bellhouse is also preparing) will be placed,
and the company will partake of a splendid cold collation which is to be provided by Mr. Lynn,
of the Waterloo Hotel, Liverpool.  A large apartment at the east end of the warehouses will
be reserved as a withdrawing room for the ladies, and is partitioned off for that purpose.
After partaking of the hospitality of the directors, the company will return to Liverpool in
the same order in which they arrive.  We understand that each shareholder in the railway will
be entitled to a seat (transferable) in one of the carriages, on this interesting and important
occasion.  It may be proper to state, for the information of the public, that no one will be
permitted to go upon the railway between Ordsall lane and the warehouses, and parties of the
military and police will be placed to preserve order, and prevent intrusion.  Beyond Ordsall
lane, however, the public will be freely admitted to view the procession as it passes: and
no restriction will be laid upon them farther than may be requisite to prevent them from approaching
too close to the rails, lest accidents should occur.  By extending themselves along either
side of the road towards Eccles any number of people, however great, may be easily accommodated.”

Of the carrying out on the 15th the programme thus carefully laid down, a contemporaneous reporter
has left the following account:—

“The town itself [Liverpool] was never so full of strangers; they poured in during the last
and the beginning of the present week from almost all parts of the three kingdoms, and we believe
that through Chester alone, which is by no means a principal road to Liverpool, four hundred
extra passengers were forwarded on Tuesday.  All the inns in the town were crowded to overflowing,
and carriages stood in the streets at night, for want of room in the stable yards.

“On the morning of Wednesday the population of the town and of the country began very early
to assemble near the railway.  The weather was favourable, and the Company’s station at the
boundary of the town was the rendezvous of the nobility and gentry who attended, to form the
procession at Manchester.  Never was there such an assemblage of rank, wealth, beauty, and
fashion in this neighbourhood.  From before nine o’clock until ten the entrance in Crown street
was thronged by the splendid equipages from which the company was alighting, and the area in
which the railway carriages were placed was gradually filling with gay groups eagerly searching
for their respective places, as indicated by numbers corresponding with those on their tickets.
The large and elegant car constructed for the nobility, and the accompanying cars for the Directors
and the musicians were seen through the lesser tunnel, where persons moving about at the far
end appeared as diminutive as if viewed through a concave glass.  The effect was singular and
striking.  In a short time all those cars were brought along the tunnel into the yard which
then contained all the carriages, which were to be attached to the eight locomotive engines
which were in readiness beyond the tunnel in the great excavation at Edge-hill.  By this time
the area presented a beautiful spectacle, thirty-three carriages being filled by elegantly
dressed persons, each train of carriages being distinguished by silk flags of different colours;
the band of the fourth King’s Own Regiment, stationed in the adjoining area, playing military
airs, the Wellington Harmonic Band, in a Grecian car for the procession, performing many beautiful
miscellaneous pieces; and a third band occupying a stage above Mr. Harding’s Grand Stand, at
William the Fourth’s Hotel, spiritedly adding to the liveliness of the hour whenever the other
bands ceased.

“A few minutes before ten, the discharge of a gun and the cheers of the assembly announced
the arrival of the Duke of Wellington, who entered the area with the Marquis and Marchioness
of Salisbury and a number of friends, the band playing ‘See the conquering hero comes.’  He
returned the congratulations of the company, and in a few moments the grand car, which he and
the nobility and the principal gentry occupied, and the cars attached to it, were permitted
to proceed; we say permitted, because no applied power, except a slight impulse at first, is
requisite to propel carriages along the tunnel, the slope being just sufficient to call into
effect the principle of gravitation.  The tunnel was lighted with gas, and the motion in passing
through it must have been as pleasing as it was novel to all the party.  On arriving at the
engine station, the cars were attached to the Northumbrian locomotive engine, on the southern
of the two lines of rail; and immediately the other trains of carriages started through the
tunnel and were attached to their respective engines on the northern of the lines.

“We had the good fortune to have a place in the first train after the grand cars, which train,
drawn by the Phoenix, consisted of three open and two close carriages, each carrying twenty-six
ladies and gentlemen. The lofty banks of the engine station were crowded with thousands of
spectators, whose enthusiastic cheering seemed to rend the air.  From this point to Wavertree-lane,
while the procession was forming, the grand cars passed and repassed the other trains of carriages
several times, running as they did in the same direction on the two parallel tracks, which
gave the assembled thousands and tens of thousands the opportunity of seeing distinctly the
illustrious strangers, whose presence gave extraordinary interest to the scene.  Some soldiers
of the 4th Regiment assisted the railway police in keeping the way clear and preserving order,
and they discharged their duty in a very proper manner.  A few minutes before eleven all was
ready for the journey, and certainly a journey upon a railway is one of the most delightful
that can be imagined.  Our first thoughts it might be supposed, from the road being so level,
were that it must be monotonous and uninteresting.  It is precisely the contrary; for as the
road does not rise and fall like the ground over which we pass, but proceeds nearly at a level,
whether the land be high or low, we are at one moment drawn through a hill, and find ourselves
seventy feet below the surface, in an Alpine chasm, and at another we are as many feet above
the green fields, traversing a raised path, from which we look down upon the roofs of farm
houses, and see the distant hills and woods.  These variations give an interest to such a journey
which cannot be appreciated until they are witnessed.  The signal gun being fired, we started
in beautiful style, amidst the deafening plaudits of the well dressed people who thronged the
numerous booths, and all the walls and eminences on both sides the line.  Our speed was gradually
increased till, entering the Olive Mountain excavation, we rushed into the awful chasm at the
rate of twenty-four miles an hour. The banks, the bridges over our heads, and the rude projecting
corners along the sides, were covered with masses of human beings past whom we glided as if
upon the wings of the wind.  We soon came into the open country of Broad Green, having fine
views of Huyton and Prescot on the left, and the hilly grounds of Cheshire on the right.  Vehicles
of every description stood in the fields on both sides, and thousands of spectators still lined
the margin of the road; some horses seemed alarmed, but after trotting with their carriages
to the farther hedges, they stood still as if their fears had subsided.  After passing Whiston,
sometimes going slowly, sometimes swiftly, we observed that a vista formed by several bridges
crossing the road gave a pleasing effect to the view.  Under Rainhill Bridge, which, like all
the others, was crowded with spectators, the Duke’s car stopped until we passed, and on this,
as on similar occasions, we had excellent opportunities of seeing the whole of the noble party,
distinguishing the Marquis and Marchioness of Salisbury, the Earl and Countess of Wilton, Lord
Stanley, and others, in the fore part of the car; alongside of the latter part was Mr. Huskisson,
standing with his face always toward us; and further behind was Lord Hill, and others, among
whom the Mayor of Liverpool took his station.  At this place Mr. Bretherton had a large party
of friends in a field, overlooking the road.  As we approached the Sutton inclined plane the
Duke’s car passed us again at a most rapid rate—it appeared rapid even to us who were travelling
then at, probably, fifteen miles an hour.  We had a fine view of Billings Hill from this neighbourhood,
and of a thousand various coloured fields.  A grand stand was here erected, beautifully decorated,
and crowded with ladies and gentlemen from St. Helen’s and the neighbourhood.  Entering upon
Parr Moss we had a good view of Newton Race Course and the stands, and at this time the Duke
was far ahead of us; the grand cars appeared actually of diminutive dimensions, and in a short
time we saw them gliding beautifully over the Sankey Viaduct, from which a scene truly magnificent
lay before us.

“The fields below us were occupied by thousands who cheered us as we passed over the stupendous
edifice; carriages filled the narrow lanes, and vessels in the water had been detained in order
that their crews might gaze up at the gorgeous pageant passing far above their masts heads.
Here again was a grand stand, and here again enthusiastic plaudits almost deafened us.  Shortly,
we passed the borough of Newton, crossing a fine bridge over the Warrington road, and reached
Parkside, seventeen miles from Liverpool, in about four minutes under the hour.  At this place
the engines were ranged under different watering stations to receive fresh water, the whole
extending along nearly half a mile of road.  Our train and two others passed the Duke’s car,
and we in the first train had had our engine supplied with water, and were ready to start,
some time before we were aware of the melancholy cause of our apparently great delay.  We had
most of us, alighted, and were walking about, congratulating each other generally, and the
ladies particularly, on the truly delightful treat we were enjoying, all hearts bounding with
joyous excitement, and every tongue eloquent in the praise of the gigantic work now completed,
and the advantages and pleasures it afforded.  A murmur and an agitation at a little distance
betokened something alarming and we too soon learned the nature of that lamentable event, which
we cannot record without the most agonized feelings.  On inquiring, we learnt the dreadful
particulars.  After three of the engines with their trains had passed the Duke’s carriage,
although the others had to follow, the company began to alight from all the carriages which
had arrived.  The Duke of Wellington and Mr. Huskisson had just shaken hands, and Mr. Huskisson,
Prince Esterhazy, Mr. Birch, Mr. H. Earle, Mr. William Holmes, M.P., and others were standing
in the road, when the other carriages were approaching.  An alarm being given, most of the
gentlemen sprang into the carriage, but Mr. Huskisson seemed flurried, and from some cause,
not clearly ascertained, he fell under the engine of the approaching carriages, the wheel of
which shattered his leg in the most dreadful manner.  On being raised from the ground by the
Earl of Wilton, Mr. Holmes, and other gentlemen, his only exclamations were:—“Where is Mrs.
Huskisson?  I have met my death.  God forgive me.” Immediately after he swooned.  Dr. Brandreth,
and Dr. Southey, of London, immediately applied bandages to the limb.  In a short time the
engine was detached from the Duke’s carriage, and the musician’s car being prepared for the
purpose, the Right Honourable gentleman was placed in it, accompanied by his afflicted lady,
with Dr. Brandreth, Dr. Southey, Earl of Wilton, and Mr. Stephenson, who set off in the direction
of Manchester.

“The whole of the procession remained at least another hour uncertain what course to adopt.
A consultation was held on the open part of the road, and the Duke of Wellington was soon surrounded
by the Directors, and a mournful group of gentlemen.  At first it was thought advisable to
return to Liverpool, merely despatching one engine and a set of carriages, to convey home Lady
Wilton, and others who did not wish to return to Liverpool.  The Duke of Wellington and Sir
Robert Peel seemed to favour this course; others thought it best to proceed as originally intended:
but no decision was made till the Boroughreeve of Manchester stated, that if the procession
did not reach Manchester, where an unprecedented concourse of people would be assembled, and
would wait for it, he should be fearful of the consequences to the peace of the town. This
turned the scale, and his Grace then proposed that the whole party should proceed, and return
as soon as possible, all festivity at Manchester being avoided.  The Phœnix, with its train,
was then attached to the North Star and its train, and from the two united a long chain was
affixed to his Grace’s car, and although it was on the other line of rail, it was found to
draw the whole along exceedingly well.  About half-past one, we resumed our journey; and we
should here mention that the Wigan Branch Railway Company had erected near Parkside bridge
a grand stand, which they and their friends occupied, and from which they enthusiastically
cheered the procession.  On reaching the twentieth mile post we had a beautiful view of Rivington
Pike and Blackstone Edge, and at the twenty-first the smoke of Manchester appeared to be directly
at the termination of our view.  Groups of people continued to cheer us, but we could not reply;
our enjoyment was over. Tyldesley Church, and a vast region of smiling fields here met the
eye, as we traversed the flat surface of Chat Moss, in the midst of which a vast crowd was
assembled to greet us with their plaudits; and from the twenty-fourth mile post we began to
find ourselves flanked on both sides by spectators extending in a continuous and thickening
body all the way to Manchester.  At the twenty-fifth mile post we met Mr. Stephenson returning
with the Northumbrian engine.  In answer to innumerable and eager inquiries, Mr. Stephenson
said he had left Mr. Huskisson at the house of the Rev. Mr. Blackburne, Vicar of Eccles, and
had then proceeded to Manchester, whence he brought back medical assistance, and that the surgeons,
after seeing Mr. Huskisson, had expressed a hope that there was no danger.  Mr. Stephenson’s
speed had been at the rate of thirty-four miles an hour during this painful errand.  The engine
being then again attached to the Duke’s car, the procession dashed forward, passing countless
thousands of people upon house tops, booths, high ground, bridges, etc., and our readers must
imagine, for we cannot describe, such a movement through an avenue of living beings, and extending
six miles in length.  Upon one bridge a tri-colored flag was displayed; near another the motto
of “Vote by ballot” was seen; in a field near Eccles, a poor and wretchedly dressed man had
his loom close to the roadside, and was weaving with all his might; cries of “No Corn Laws,”
were occasionally heard, and for about two miles the cheerings of the crowd were interspersed
with a continual hissing and hooting from the minority.  On approaching the bridge which crosses
the Irwell, the 59th regiment was drawn up, flanking the road on each side, and presenting
arms as his Grace passed along.  We reached the warehouses at a quarter before three, and those
who alighted were shown into the large upper rooms where a most elegant cold collation had
been prepared by Mr. Lynn, for more than one thousand persons.  The greater portion of the
company, as the carriages continued to arrive, visited the rooms and partook in silence of
some refreshment.  They then returned to their carriages which had been properly placed for
returning.  His Grace and the principal party did not alight; but he went through a most fatiguing
office for more than an hour and a half, in shaking hands with thousands of people, to whom
he stooped over the hand rail of the carriage, and who seemed insatiable in their desire to
join hands with him.  Many women brought their children to him, lifting them up that he might
bless them, which he did, and during the whole time he had scarcely a minute’s respite.  At
half-past four the Duke’s car began to move away for Liverpool.

“They would have been detained a little longer, in order that three of the engines, which had
been to Eccles for water, might have dropped into the rear to take their places; but Mr. Lavender
represented that the crowd was so thickening in upon all sides, and becoming so clamorous for
admission into the area, that he would not answer for the peace of the town, if further delay
took place.  The three engines were on the same line of rail as the Duke, and they could not
cross to the other line without getting to a turning place, and as the Duke could not be delayed
on account of his keeping the crowd together, there was no alternative but to send the engines
forward.  One of the other engines was then attached to our train, and we followed the Duke
rapidly, while the six trains behind had only three engines left to bring them back.  Of course,
we kept pace with the Duke, who stopped at Eccles to inquire after Mr. Huskisson.  The answer
received was that there was now no hope of his life being saved; and this intelligence plunged
the whole party into still deeper distress.  We proceeded without meeting any fresh incident
until we passed Prescot, where we found two of the three engines at the 6½ mile post, where
a turning had been effected, but the third had gone on to Liverpool; we then detached the one
we had borrowed, and the three set out to meet the six remaining trains of carriages.  Our
carriages were then connected with the grand cars, the engine of which now drew the whole number
of nine carriages, containing nearly three hundred persons, at a very smart rate.  We were
now getting into vast crowds of people, most of them ignorant of the dreadful event which had
taken place, and all of them giving us enthusiastic cheers which we could not return.

“At Roby, his Grace and the Childwalls alighted and proceeded home; our carriages then moved
forward to Liverpool, where we arrived about seven o’clock, and went down the great tunnel,
under the town, a part of the work which, more than any other, astonished the numerous strangers
present.  It is, indeed, a wonderful work, and makes an impression never to be effaced from
the memory.  The Company’s yard, from St. James’s Street to Wapping, was filled with carriages
waiting for the returning parties, who separated with feelings of mingled gratification and
distress, to which we shall not attempt to give utterance.  We afterwards learnt that the parties
we left at Manchester placed the three remaining engines together, and all the carriages together,
so as to form one grand procession, including twenty-four carriages, and were coming home at
a steady pace, when they were met near Newton, by the other three engines, which were then
attached to the rest, and they arrived in Liverpool about ten o’clock.

“Thus ended a pageant which, for importance as to its object and grandeur in its details, is
admitted to have exceeded anything ever witnessed.  We conversed with many gentlemen of great
experience in public life, who spoke of the scene as surpassing anything they had ever beheld,
and who computed, upon data which they considered to be satisfactory, that not fewer than 500,000
persons must have been spectators of the procession.”

So far from being a success, the occasion was, after the accident to Mr. Huskisson, such a
series of mortifying disappointments and the Duke of Wellington’s experience at Manchester
had been so very far removed from gratifying that the directors of the company felt moved to
exonerate themselves from the load of censure by an official explanation.  This they did in
the following language:—

“On the subject of delay which took place in the starting from Manchester, and consequently
in the arrival at Liverpool, of the last three engines, with twenty-four carriages and six
hundred passengers, being the train allotted to six of the engines, we are authorized to state
that the directors think it due to the proprietors and others constituting the large assemblage
of company in the above trains to make known the following particulars:

“Three out of the six locomotive engines which belonged to the above trains had proceeded on
the south road from Manchester to Eccles, to take in water, with the intention of returning
to Manchester, and so getting out of that line of road before any of the trains should start
on their return home.  Before this, however, was accomplished, the following circumstances
seemed to render it imperative for the train of carriages containing the Duke of Wellington
and a great many of the distinguished visitors to leave Manchester.  The eagerness on the part
of the crowd to see the Duke, and to shake hands with him, was very great, so much so that
his Grace held out both his hands to the pressing multitude at the same time; the assembling
crowd becoming more dense every minute, closely surrounded the carriages, as the principal
attraction was this particular train.  The difficulty of proceeding at all increased every
moment and consequently the danger of accident upon the attempt being made to force a way through
the throng also increased.  At this juncture Mr. Lavender, the head of the police establishment
of Manchester, interfered, and entreated that the Duke’s train should move on, or he could
not answer for the consequences.  Under these circumstances, and the day being well advanced,
it was thought expedient at all events to move forward while it was still practicable to do
so.  The order was accordingly given, and the train passed along out of the immediate neighbourhood
of Manchester without accident to anyone.  When they had proceeded a few miles they fell in
with the engines belonging to the trains left at Manchester, and these engines being on the
same line as the carriages of the procession, there was no alternative but bringing the Duke’s
train back through the dense multitude to Manchester, or proceeding with three extra engines
to the neighbourhood of Liverpool (all passing places from one road to the other being removed,
with a view to safety, on the occasion), and afterwards sending them back to the assistance
of the trains unfortunately left behind.  It was determined to proceed towards Liverpool, as
being decidedly the most advisable course under the circumstances of the case; and it may be
mentioned for the satisfaction of any party who may have considered that he was in some measure
left in the lurch, that Mr. Moss, the Deputy Chairman, had left Mrs. Moss and several of his
family to come with the trains which had been so left behind.  Three engines having to draw
a load calculated for six, their progress was of course much retarded, besides a considerable
delay which took place before the starting of the last trains, owing to the uncertainty which
existed as to what had become of the three missing engines.  These engines, after proceeding
to within a few miles of Liverpool, were enabled to return to Park-side, in the neighbourhood
of Newton, where they were attached to the other three and the whole proceeding safely to Liverpool,
where they arrived at ten in the evening.”

The case was, however, here stated, to say the least, in the mildest possible manner.  The
fact was that the authorities at Manchester had, and not without reason, passed a very panic-stricken
hour on account of the Duke of Wellington.  That personage had been in a position of no inconsiderable
peril.  Though the reporter preserved a decorous silence on that point, the ministerial car
had on the way been pelted, as well as hooted; and at Manchester a vast mass of not particularly
well disposed persons had fairly overwhelmed both police and soldiery, and had taken complete
possession of the tracks.  They were not riotous but they were very rough; and they insisted
on climbing upon the carriages and pressing their attentions on the distinguished inmates in
a manner somewhat at variance with English ideas of propriety.  The Duke’s efforts at conciliatory
manners, as evinced through much hand-shaking, were not without significance.  It was small
matter for wonder, therefore, that the terrified authorities, before they got him out of their
town, heartily regretted that they had not allowed him to have his own way after the accident
to Mr. Huskisson, when he proposed to turn back without coming to it.  Having once got him
safely started back to Liverpool, therefore, they preferred to leave the other guests to take
care of themselves, rather than have the Duke face the crowd again.  As there were no sidings
on that early road, and the connections between the tracks had, as a measure of safety, been
temporarily removed, the ministerial train in moving towards Liverpool had necessarily pushed
before it the engines belonging to the other trains.  The unfortunate guests on those other
trains, thus left to their fate, had for the rest of the day a very dreary time of it.  To
avoid accidents, the six trains abandoned at Manchester were united into one, to which were
attached the three locomotives remaining.  In this form they started.  Presently the strain
broke the couplings.  Pieces of rope were then put in requisition, and again they got in motion.
In due time the three other engines came along, but they could only be used by putting them
on in front of the three already attached to the train.  Two of them were used in that way,
and the eleven cars thus drawn by five locomotives, and preceded at a short distance by one
other, went on towards Liverpool.  It was dark, and to meet the exigencies of the occasion
the first germ of the present elaborate system of railroad night signals was improvised on
the spot. From the foremost and pioneer locomotive obstacles were signalled to the train locomotives
by the very primitive expedient of swinging the lighted end of a tar-rope.  At Rainhill the
weight of the train proved too much for the combined motive-power, and the thoroughly wearied
passengers had to leave their carriages and walk up the incline.  When they got to the summit
and, resuming their seats, were again in motion, fresh delay was occasioned by the leading
locomotive running into a wheel-barrow, maliciously placed on the track to obstruct it.  Not
until ten o’clock did they enter the tunnel at Liverpool.  Meanwhile all sorts of rumours of
general disaster had for hours been circulating among the vast concourse of spectators who
were assembled waiting for their friends, and whose relief expressed itself in hearty cheers
as the train at last rolled safely into the station.

We have also Miss Kemble’s story of this day, to which in her letter of August 25th she had
looked forward with such eager interest.

                                     MANCHESTER, September 20th, 1830.  [Besides Mr. Huskisson, another man named
Stephenson had about this time been killed on the railroad].

Miss Kemble was mistaken in stating Mr. Huskisson after his accident was removed to Manchester.
He was conveyed to the vicarage, at Eccles, near Manchester.  Of the vicar’s wife, Dean Stanley’s
mother thus writes, (January 17, 1832,):—“There is one person who interests me very much, Mrs.
Tom Blackburne, the Vicaress of Eccles, who received poor Mr. Huskisson, and immortalised herself
by her activity, sense, and conduct throughout.”  A writer in the Cornhill Magazine, for March,
1884, referring to the opening of the Liverpool and Manchester Railway, remarks:—“In celebration
of this experiment, for even then most people only looked upon it as a doubtful thing, the
houses of the adjacent parts of Lancashire were filled with guests.  Mr. John Blackburne, M.P.,
asked his brother and sister-in-law, Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Blackburne, to stay at Hale Hall,
near Liverpool, (which his ancestors in the direct line had possessed since 1199,) and to go
with his party to the ceremony and fetes of the day.

The invitation was accepted, and Mr. and Mrs. Blackburne went to Hale. Now, however, occurred
one of those strange circumstances utterly condemned by critics of fiction as ‘unreal,’ ‘unnatural,’
or ‘impossible;’ only in this case it happened to be true, in spite of all these epithets.
Mrs. Blackburne, rather strong-minded than otherwise, at all events one of the last women in
the world to be affected by imagination, became possessed by an unmistakable presentiment,
which made her feel quite sure that her presence was required at home; and she went home at
once.  There were difficulties in her way; every carriage was required, but she would go. 
She drove to Warrington, and from thence ‘took boat’ up the Irwell to Eccles.  Canal boats
were then regular conveyances, divided into first and second classes.  There were no mobs or
excitement anywhere on the 14th, and Mrs. Blackburne got quickly to Eccles without any adventures.
When there, except that one of her children was unwell, she could find nothing wrong, or in
the least likely to account for the presentiment which had driven her home in spite of all
the natural enough, ridicule of her husband and friends at Hale.

Early on the morning of the 15th, an incident occurred, the narration of which may throw some
light on the temper of the times.  Mr. Barton, of Swinton, came to say that a mob was expected
to come from Oldham to attack the Duke of Wellington, then at the height of his unpopularity
among the masses; for just by Eccles three miles of the line was left unguarded, ‘Could Mr.
Blackburne say what was to be done?’

‘My husband is away,’ said the Vicaress, ‘but I know that about fifty special constables were
out last year, the very men for this work, if their licenses have not expired.’

‘Never mind licenses,’ replied Mr. Barton, with a superb indifference to form, quite natural
under the circumstances.  ‘Where can I find the men?’

‘Oh,’ replied Mrs. Blackburne, ‘I can get the men for you.’

Mr. Barton hesitated, but soon with gratitude accepted the offer, and with the help of the
churchwardens and constables ‘a guard for the Duke’ was soon collected on the bridge of Eccles,
armed with staves and clubs to be dispersed along the line.

This done, she had a tent put up for herself and children, with whom were Lord Wilton’s little
daughters, the Ladies Elizabeth and Katherine Egerton, and their governess.  The tent was just
above the cutting and looked down on to it, and they would have a good view of the first train,
expected to pass about eleven o’clock.  The morning wore on, the crowds were increasing, and
low murmurs of wonder were heard.  It was thought that the experiment had failed.  A few of
the villagers came into the field, but none troubled the little band of watchers.  The bright
sunshine had passed away, and it had become dark, with large hot drops of rain, forerunners
of a coming thunderstorm.  The people lined the whole of the way from Manchester to Liverpool,
and, as far as the eye could reach, faces were seen anxiously looking towards Liverpool.  Suddenly
a strange roar was heard from the crowd, not a cheer of triumph, but a prolonged wail, beginning
at the furthest point of travelling along the swarming banks like the incoming swirl of a breaker
as it runs upon a gravelled beach.

Like a true woman, her first thought was for her husband, as Mrs. Blackburne heard the words
repeated on all sides, ‘An accident!’  ‘The Vicarage!’  She flew across the field to the gate
and met a sad procession bringing in a sorely-wounded yet quite conscious man.  She saw in
a moment that he had medals on his coat, and had been very tall, so that it could not be as
she feared.  The relief of that moment may be imagined.  Then the quiet presence of mind, by
practice habitual to her, and the ready flow of sympathy left her no time to think of anything
but the sufferer, who said to her pathetically, ‘I shall not trouble you long!’  She had not
only the will but the power to help, even to supplying from her own medicine chest and stores,
kept for the poor, everything that the surgeons required.

It was Lord Wilton who suggested the removal of Mr. Huskisson to Eccles Vicarage and improvised
a tourniquet on the spot, while soon the medical men who were in the train did what they could
for him.  Mr. Blackburne, as will be remembered, was not with his wife, and only the presentiment
which had brought Mrs. Blackburne home had given the means of so readily and quickly obtaining
surgical necessaries and rest.  Mr. Blackburne, writing to his mother-in-law the day after
this accident, referring to Mr. Huskisson, remarks:—“To the last he retained his senses.  Lord
Granville says when the dying man heard Wilton propose to take him to this house he exclaimed,
‘Pray take me there; there I shall indeed be taken care of.’

But fancy my horror!  Not one word did I know of his being here till I had passed the place,
and was literally eating my luncheon at Manchester!  In vain did I try to get a conveyance,
till at last the Duke of Wellington sent to me and ordered his car to start, and I came with
him back, he intending to come here; but the crowd was so immense that the police dared not
let him get out.  To be sure, when my people on the bridge saw me standing with him, they did
shout, ‘That’s as it should be—Vicar for us!’  He said, ‘These people seem to know you well.’

Entre nous, at the door I met my love, and after a good cry (I don’t know which was the greatest
fool!) set to work.  The poor fellow was glad to see me, and never shall I forget the scene,
his poor wife holding his head, and the great men weeping, for they all wept!  He then received
the Sacrament, added some codocils to his will, and seemed perfectly resigned.  But his agonies
were dreadful!  Ransome says they must have been so.  He expired at nine.  We never left him
till he breathed his last.  Poor woman!  How she lamented his loss; yet her struggles to bear
with fortitude are wonderful.  I wish you could have heard him exclaim, after my petition ‘Forgive
us our trespasses as we forgive . . . ’  ‘I have not the smallest ill-will to any one person
in the whole world.’ They stay here until Saturday, when they begin the sad journey to convey
him to Sussex.  They wanted to bury him at Liverpool, but she refused.  I forgot to tell you
that he told Lawrence before starting that he wished he were safe back.”

Mr. Huskisson was not buried at Chichester, for at last Mrs. Huskisson consented to the popular
wish that his body might have a public funeral at Liverpool, where a statue of him by Gibson
now stands in the cemetery.”

ELEVATED SIGHT-SEERS WISHING TO DESCEND.

Sir J. A. Picton, in his Memorials of Liverpool, relates an amusing incident connected with
the opening of the railway at that town.  “On the opening of the railway,” he remarks, “of
course, every point and ‘coin of vantage’ from whence the procession could be best seen was
eagerly availed of.  A tolerably high chimney had recently been built upon the railway ground,
affording a sufficient platform on the scaffolding at the top for the accommodation of two
or three persons.  Two gentlemen connected with the engineer’s department took advantage of
this crowning eminence to obtain a really ‘bird’s eye view’ of the whole proceedings. They
were wound up by the tackle used in hoisting the bricks, and enjoyed the perspective from their
airy height to their hearts’ content.  When all was over they, of course, wished to descend,
and gave the signal to be let down again, but alas! there was no response.  The man in charge,
excited by the events of the day, confused by the sorrowful news by which it was closed, and,
it may be, oblivious from other causes, had utterly forgotten his engagement and gone home.
Here was a prospect!  The shades of evening were gathering, the multitudes departing, and every
probability of being obliged to act the part of St. Simeon of Stylites very involuntarily.
Despair added force and strength to their lungs, and at length—their condition and difficulty
having attracted attention—they were relieved from their unpleasant predicament.”

THE DUKE’S CARRIAGE.

A correspondent of the Athenæum, in 1830, speaking of the carriage prepared for the Duke of
Wellington at the opening of the Liverpool and Manchester Railway, remarks: “It rather resembled
an eastern pavilion than anything our northern idea considers a carriage.  The floor is 32
feet long by 8 wide, gilt pillars support a crimson canopy 24 feet long, and it might for magnitude
be likened to the car of Juggernaut; yet this huge machine, with the preceding steam engine,
moved along at its own fiery will even more swimmingly, a ‘thing of heart and mind,’ than a
ship on the ocean.”

LORD BROUGHAM’S SPEECH.

At a dinner given at Liverpool in celebration of the opening of the Liverpool and Manchester
Railway, Lord Brougham thus discourses upon the memorable event and the death of Mr. Huskisson:—“When
I saw the difficulties of space, as it were, overcome; when I beheld a kind of miracle exhibited
before my astonished eyes; when I saw the rocks excavated and the gigantic power of man penetrating
through miles of the solid mass, and gaining a great, a lasting, an almost perennial conquest
over the powers of nature by his skill and industry; when I contemplated all this, was it possible
for me to avoid the reflections which crowded into my mind, not in praise of man’s great success,
not in admiration of the genius and perseverance he had displayed, or even of the courage he
had shown in setting himself against the obstacles that matter afforded to his course—no! but
the melancholy reflection that these prodigious efforts of the human race, so fruitful of praise
but so much more fruitful of lasting blessing to mankind, have forced a tear from my eye by
that unhappy casualty which deprived me of a friend and you of a representative!”

AN EARLY RIDE ON THE LIVERPOOL AND MANCHESTER RAILWAY.

No account of its first beginnings would, however, be complete for our time, which did not
also give an idea of the impressions produced on one travelling over it before yet the novelty
of the thing had quite worn away.  It was a long time, comparatively, after September, 1830,
before the men who had made a trip over the railroad ceased to be objects of deep curiosity.
Here is the account of his experience by one of these far-travelled men, with all its freshness
still lingering about it:—

“Although the whole passage between Liverpool and Manchester is a series of enchantments, surpassing
any in the Arabian Nights, because they are realities, not fictions, yet there are epochs in
the transit which are peculiarly exciting.  These are the startings, the ascents, the descents,
the tunnels, the Chat Moss, the meetings.  At the instant of starting, or rather before, the
automaton belches forth an explosion of steam, and seems for a second or two quiescent.  But
quickly the explosions are reiterated, with shorter and shorter intervals, till they become
too rapid to be counted, though still distinct.  These belchings or explosions more nearly
resemble the pantings of a lion or tiger, than any sound that has ever vibrated on my ear.
During the ascent they become slower and slower, till the automaton actually labours like an
animal out of breath, from the tremendous efforts to gain the highest point of elevation. 
The progression is proportionate; and before the said point is gained, the train is not moving
faster than a horse can pace.  With the slow motion of the mighty and animated machine, the
breathing becomes more laborious, the growl more distinct, till at length the animal appears
exhausted and groans like the tiger, when overpowered in combat by the buffalo.

“The moment that the height is reached and the descent commences, the pantings rapidly increase;
the engine with its train starts off with augmenting velocity; and in a few seconds it is flying
down the declivity like lightning, and with a uniform growl or roar, like a continuous discharge
of distant artillery.

“At this period, the whole train is going at the rate of thirty-five or forty miles an hour!
I was on the outside, and in front of the first carriage, just over the engine.  The scene
was magnificent, I had almost said terrific.  Although it was a dead calm the wind appeared
to be blowing a hurricane, such was the velocity with which we darted through the air.  Yet
all was steady; and there was something in the precision of the machinery that inspired a degree
of confidence over fear—of safety over danger.  A man may travel from the Pole to the Equator,
from the Straits of Malacca to the Isthmus of Darien, and he will see nothing so astonishing
as this.  The pangs of Etna and Vesuvius excite feelings of horror as well as of terror; the
convulsion of the elements during a thunderstorm carries with it nothing but pride, much less
of pleasure, to counteract the awe inspired by the fearful workings of perturbed nature; but
the scene which is here presented, and which I cannot adequately describe, engenders a proud
consciousness of superiority in human ingenuity, more intense and convincing than any effort
or product of the poet, the painter, the philosopher, or the divine.  The projections or transits
of the train through the tunnels or arches are very electrifying.  The deafening peal of thunder,
the sudden immersion in gloom, and the clash of reverberated sounds in confined space combine
to produce a momentary shudder or idea of destruction—a thrill of annihilation, which is instantly
dispelled on emerging into the cheerful light.

“The meetings or crossings of the steam trains flying in opposite directions are scarcely less
agitating to the nerves than their transits through the tunnels.  The velocity of their course,
the propinquity or apparent identity of the iron orbits along which these meteors move, call
forth the involuntary but fearful thought of a possible collision, with all its horrible consequences.
The period of suspense, however, though exquisitely painful, is but momentary; and in a few
seconds the object of terror is far out of sight behind.

“Nor is the rapid passage across Chat Moss unworthy of notice.  The ingenuity with which two
narrow rods of iron are made to bear whole trains of wagons, laden with many hundred tons of
commerce, and bounding across a wide, semi-fluid morass, previously impassable by man or beast,
is beyond all praise and deserving of eternal record.  Only conceive a slender bridge of two
minute iron rails, several miles in length, level as Waterloo, elastic as whalebone, yet firm
as adamant!  Along this splendid triumph of human genius—this veritable via triumphalis—the
train of carriages bounds with the velocity of the stricken deer; the vibrations of the resilient
moss causing the ponderous engine and its enormous suite to glide along the surface of an extensive
quagmire as safely as a practiced skater skims the icy mirror of a frozen lake.

“The first class or train is the most fashionable, but the second or third are the most amusing.
I travelled one day from Liverpool to Manchester in the lumber train.  Many of the carriages
were occupied by the swinish multitude, and others by a multitude of swine.  These last were
naturally vociferous if not eloquent.  It is evident that the other passengers would have been
considerably annoyed by the orators of this last group, had there not been stationed in each
carriage an officer somewhat analogous to the Usher of the Black Rod, but whose designation
on the railroad I found to be ‘Comptroller of the Gammon.’  No sooner did one of the long-faced
gentlemen raise his note too high, or wag his jaw too long, than the ‘Comptroller of the Gammon’
gave him a whack over the snout with the butt end of his shillelagh; a snubber which never
failed to stop his oratory for the remainder of the journey.”

To one familiar with the history of railroad legislation the last paragraph is peculiarly significant.
For years after the railroad system was inaugurated, and until legislation was invoked to compel
something better, the companies persisted in carrying passengers of the third class in uncovered
carriages, exposed to all weather, and with no more decencies or comforts than were accorded
to swine.

EARLY RAILWAY TRAVELLING.

A writer in Notes and Queries remarks:—“On looking over a diary kept by my father during two
journeys northward in 1830–31, I thought the readers might be amused with his account of what
he saw of railway travelling, then in its infancy:—

“Monday, Oct. 11, 1830, Darlington.—Walked to the railroad, which comes within half-a-mile
of the town.  Saw a steam engine drawing about twenty-five wagons, each containing about two
tons and a half of coals. A single horse draws four such wagons.  I went to Stockton at four
o’clock by coach on the railroad; one horse draws about twenty-four passengers.  I did not
like it at all, for the road is very ugly in appearance, and, being only one line with occasional
turns for passing, we were sometimes obliged to wait, and at other times to be drawn back,
so that we were full two hours going eleven miles, and they are often more than three hours.
There is no other conveyance, as the cheapness has driven the stage-coaches off the road. 
I only paid 1s. for eleven miles.  The motion was very unpleasant—a continual jolting and disagreeable
noise.”

On Sept. 1, 1831, he remarks:—“The railroad to Stockton has been improved since I was here,
as they are now laying down a second line.”

“Wednesday, Oct. 27, 1830.—Left Manchester at ten o’clock by the railroad for Liverpool.  We
enter upon it by a staircase through the office from the street at present, but there will,
I suppose, be an open entrance, by-and-bye; they have built extensive warehouses adjoining.
We were two hours and a half going to Liverpool (about thirty-two miles), and I must think
the advantages have been a good deal overrated, for, prejudice apart, I think most people will
allow that expedition is the only real advantage gained; the road itself is ugly, though curious
and wonderful as a work of art.  Near Liverpool it is cut very deeply through rock, and there
is a long tunnel which leads into a yard where omnibusses wait to convey passengers to the
inns.  The tunnel is too low for the engines at present in use, and the carriages are drawn
through it by donkeys.  The engines are calculated to draw fifty tons. . .  I cannot say that
I at all liked it; the speed was too great to be pleasant, and makes you rather giddy, and
certainly it is not smoother and easier than a good turnpike road.  When the carriages stop
or go on, a very violent jolting takes place, from the ends of the carriages jostling together.
I have heard many say they prefer a horse-coach, but the majority are in favour of the railroad,
and they will, no doubt, knock up the coaches.”

“Monday, Sept. 12, 1831.—Left Manchester by coach at ten o’clock, and arrived in Liverpool
at half-past two. . .  The railroad is not supposed to answer vastly well, but they are making
a branch to Warrington, which will hurt the Sankey Navigation, and throw 1,500 men out of employment;
these people are said to be loud in their execrations of it, and to threaten revenge.  It is
certain the proprietors do not all feel easy about it, as one living at Warrington has determined
never to go by it, and was coming to Liverpool by our coach if there had been room.  He would
gladly sell his shares.  A dividend of 4 per cent. had been paid for six months, but money
had been borrowed. . . .  Charge for tonnage of goods, 10s. for thirty-two miles, which appears
very dear to me.”

CRABB ROBINSON’S FIRST RAILWAY JOURNEY.

“June 9th, 1833.—(Liverpool).  At twelve o’clock I got upon an omnibus, and was driven up a
steep hill to the place where the steam carriages start.  We travelled in the second class
of carriages.  There were five carriages linked together, in each of which were placed open
seats for the travellers, four or five facing each other; but not all were full; and, besides,
there was a close carriage, and also a machine for luggage. The fare was four shillings for
the thirty-one miles.  Everything went on so rapidly that I had scarcely the power of observation.
The road begins at an excavation through a rock, and is to a certain extent insulated from
the adjacent country.  It is occasionally placed on bridges, and frequently intersected by
ordinary roads.  Not quite a perfect level is preserved.  On setting off there is a slight
jolt, arising from the chain catching each carriage, but, once in motion, we proceeded as smoothly
as possible.  For a minute or two the pace is gentle, and is constantly varying.  The machine
produces little smoke or steam.  First in order is the tall chimney; then the boiler, a barrel-like
vessel; then an oblong reservoir of water; then a vehicle for coals; and then comes, of a length
infinitely extendible, the train of carriages.  If all the seats had been filled, our train
would have carried about 150 passengers; but a gentleman assured me at Chester that he went
with a thousand persons to Newton fair.  There must have been two engines then.  I have heard
since that two thousand persons or more went to and from the fair that day. But two thousand
only, at three shillings each way, would have produced £600!  But, after all, the expense is
so great that it is considered uncertain whether the establishment will ultimately remunerate
the proprietors.  Yet I have heard that it already yields the shareholders a dividend of nine
per cent.  And Bills have passed for making railroads between London and Birmingham, and Birmingham
and Liverpool.  What a change it will produce in the intercourse!  One conveyance will take
between 100 and 200 passengers, and the journey will be made in a forenoon!  Of the rapidity
of the journey I had better experience on my return; but I may say now that, stoppages included,
it may certainly be made at the rate of twenty miles an hour.

“I should have observed before that the most remarkable movements of the journey are those
in which trains pass one another.  The rapidity is such that there is no recognizing the features
of a traveller.  On several occasions, the noise of the passing engine was like the whizzing
of a rocket.  Guards are stationed in the road, holding flags, to give notice to the drivers
when to stop.  Near Newton I noticed an inscription recording the memorable death of Huskisson.”

                                                —Crabb Robinson’s Diary.

EARLY AMERICAN RAILWAY ENTERPRISE.

Mr. C. F. Adams, in his work on Railroads: Their Origin and Problems, remarks:—“There is, indeed,
some reason for believing that the South Carolina Railroad was the first ever constructed in
any country with a definite plan of operating it exclusively by locomotive steam power.  But
in America there was not—indeed, from the very circumstances of the case, there could not have
been—any such dramatic occasions and surprises as those witnessed at Liverpool in 1829 and
1830.  Nevertheless, the people of Charleston were pressing close on the heels of those at
Liverpool, for on the 15th of January, 1831—exactly four months after the formal opening of
the Manchester and Liverpool road—the first anniversary of the South Carolina Railroad was
celebrated with due honor.  A queer-looking machine, the outline of which was sufficient in
itself to prove that the inventor owed nothing to Stephenson, had been constructed at the West
Point Foundry Works in New York during the summer of 1830—a first attempt to supply that locomotive
power which the Board had, with sublime confidence in possibilities, unanimously voted on the
14th of the preceding January should alone be used on the road.  The name of Best Friend was
given to this very simple product of native genius.  The idea of the multitubular boiler had
not yet suggested itself in America.  The Best Friend, therefore, was supplied with a common
vertical boiler, ‘in form of an old-fashioned porter-bottle, the furnace at the bottom surrounded
with water, and all filled inside of what we call teats running out from the sides and tops.’
By means of the projections or ‘teats’ a portion at least of the necessary heating surface
was provided. The cylinder was at the front of the platform, the rear end of which was occupied
by the boiler, and it was fed by means of a connecting pipe. Thanks to the indefatigable researches
of an enthusiast on railroad construction, we have an account of the performances of this and
all the other pioneers among American locomotives, and the pictures with which Mr. W. H. Brown
has enriched his book would alone render it both curious and valuable.  Prior to the stockholders’
anniversary of January 15th, 1831, it seems that the Best Friend had made several trips ‘running
at the rate of sixteen to twenty-one miles an hour, with forty or fifty passengers in some
four or five cars, and without the cars, thirty to thirty-five miles an hour.’  The stockholders’
day was, however, a special occasion, and the papers of the following Monday, for it happened
on a Saturday, gave the following account of it:—

“Notice having been previously given, inviting the stockholders, about one hundred and fifty
assembled in the course of the morning at the company’s buildings in Line Street, together
with a number of invited guests.  The weather the day and night previous had been stormy, and
the morning was cold and cloudy.  Anticipating a postponement of the ceremonies, the locomotive
engine had been taken to pieces for cleaning, but upon the assembling of the company she was
put in order, the cylinders new packed and at the word the apparatus was ready for movement.
The first trip was performed with two pleasure cars attached, and a small carriage, fitted
for the occasion, upon which was a detachment of United States troops and a field-piece which
had been politely granted by Major Belton for the occasion. . .  The number of passengers brought
down, which was performed in two trips, was estimated at upward of two hundred.  A band of
music enlivened the scene, and great hilarity and good humour prevailed throughout the day.”

It was not long, however, before the Best Friend came to serious grief. Naturally, and even
necessarily, inasmuch as it was a South Carolina institution, it was provided with a negro
fireman.  It so happened that this functionary while in the discharge of his duties was much
annoyed by the escape of steam from the safety valve, and, not having made himself complete
master of the principles underlying the use of steam as a source of power, he took advantage
of a temporary absence of the engineer in charge to effect a radical remedy of this cause of
annoyance.  He not only fastened down the valve lever, but further made the thing perfectly
sure by sitting upon it.  The consequences were hardly less disastrous to the Best Friend than
to the chattel fireman.  Neither were of much further practical use.  Before this mishap chanced,
however in June, 1831, a second locomotive, called the West Point, had arrived in Charleston,
and this last was constructed on the principle of Stephenson’s Rocket.  In its general aspect,
indeed, it greatly resembled that already famous prototype.  There is a very characteristic
and suggestive cut representing a trial trip made with this locomotive on March 5th, 1831.
The nerves of the Charleston people had been a good deal disturbed and their confidence in
steam as a safe motor shaken by the disaster which had befallen the Best Friend.  Mindful of
this fact, and very properly solicitous for the safety of their guests, the directors now had
recourse to a very simple and ingenious expedient. They put what they called a ‘barrier car’
between the locomotive and passenger coaches of the train.  This barrier car consisted of a
platform on wheels upon which were piled six bales of cotton.  A fortification was thus provided
between the passengers and any future negro sitting on the safety valve.  We are also assured
that ‘the safety valve being out of the reach of any person but the engineer, will contribute
to the prevention of accidents in the future, such as befel the Best Friend.’ Judging by the
cut which represents the train, this occasion must have been even more marked for its ‘hilarity’
than the earlier one which has already been described.  Besides the locomotive and the barrier
car there are four passenger coaches.  In the first of these was a negro band, in general appearance
very closely resembling the minstrels of a later day, the members of which are energetically
performing on musical instruments of various familiar descriptions.  Then follow three cars
full of the saddest looking white passengers, who were present as we were informed to the number
of one hundred and seventeen.  The excursion was, however, highly successful, and two-and-a-quarter
miles of road were passed over in the short space of eight minutes—about the speed at which
a good horse would trot for the same distance.

This was in March, 1831.  About six months before, however, there had actually been a trial
of speed between a horse and one of the pioneer locomotives, which had not resulted in favour
of the locomotive.  It took place on the present Baltimore and Ohio road upon the 28th of August,
1830.  The engine in this case was contrived by no other than Mr. Peter Cooper.  And it affords
a striking illustration of how recent those events which now seem so remote really were, that
here is a man until very recently living, and amongst the most familiar to the eyes of the
present generation, who was a contemporary of Stephenson, and himself invented a locomotive
during the Rainhill year, being then nearly forty years of age.  The Cooper engine, however,
was scarcely more than a working model.  Its active-minded inventor hardly seems to have aimed
at anything more than a demonstration of possibilities.  The whole thing weighed only a ton,
and was of one horse power; in fact it was not larger than those handcars now in common use
with railroad section-men.  In order to secure the requisite pressure of steam in so small
a boiler, a sort of bellows was provided which was kept in action by means of a drum attached
to one of the car-wheels over which passed a cord which worked a pulley, which in turn worked
the bellows.  Thus, of Stephenson’s two great devices, without either of which his success
at Rainhill would have been impossible—the waste steam blast and the multitubular boiler—Peter
Cooper had only got hold of the last.  He owed his defeat in the race between his engine and
a horse to the fact that he had not got hold of the first.  It happened in this wise.  Several
experimental trips had been made with the little engine on the Baltimore and Ohio road, the
first sections of which had recently been completed and were then operated upon by means of
horses.  The success of these trips was such that at last, just seventeen days before the formal
opening of the Manchester and Liverpool road on the other side of the Atlantic, a small open
car was attached to the engine—the name of which, by the way, was Tom Thumb—and upon this a
party of directors and their friends were carried from Baltimore to Ellicott’s Mills and back,
a distance of some twenty-six miles.

The trip out was made in an hour, and was very successful.  The return was less so, and for
the following reason:—

“The great stage proprietors of the day were Stockton and Stokes; and on that occasion a gallant
grey, of great beauty and power, was driven by them from town, attached to another car on the
second track—for the company had begun by making two tracks to the Mills—and met the engine
at the Relay House on its way back.  From this point it was determined to have a race home,
and the start being even, away went horse and engine, the snort of the one and the puff of
the other keeping tune and time.

“At first the grey had the best of it, for his steam would be applied to the greatest advantage
on the instant, while the engine had to wait until the rotation of the wheels set the blower
to work.  The horse was perhaps a quarter of a mile ahead when the safety valve of the engine
lifted, and the thin blue vapour issuing from it showed an excess of steam.  The blower whistled,
the steam blew off in vapoury clouds, the pace increased, the passengers shouted, the engine
gained on the horse, soon it lapped him—the silk was plied—the race was neck and neck, nose
and nose—then the engine passed the horse, and a great hurrah hailed the victory.  But it was
not repeated, for, just at this time, when the grey’s master was about giving up, the band
which draws the pulley which moved the blower slipped from the drum, the safety valve ceased
to scream, and the engine—for want of breath—began to wheeze and pant.  In vain Mr. Cooper,
who was his own engineer and fireman, lacerated his hands in attempting to replace the band
upon the wheel; the horse gained upon the machine and passed it, and although the band was
presently replaced, and the steam again did its best, the horse was too far ahead to be overtaken,
and came in the winner of the race.”

ENGLISH AND AMERICAN OPPOSITION.

What wonder that such an innovation as railways was strenuously opposed, threatening, as it
did, the coaching interest, and the posting interest, the canal interest, and the sporting
interest, and private interests of every variety.  “Gentlemen, as an individual,” said a sporting
M.P. for Cheltenham, “I hate your railways; I detest them altogether; I wish the concoctors
of the Cheltenham and Oxford, and the concoctors of every other scheme, including the solicitors
and engineers, were at rest in Paradise.  Gentlemen, I detest railroads; nothing is more distasteful
to me than to hear the echo of our hills reverberating with the noise of hissing railroad engines,
running through the heart of our hunting country, and destroying that noble sport to which
I have been accustomed from my childhood.”  And at Tewkesbury, one speaker contended that “any
railway would be injurious;” compared engines to “war-horses and fiery meteors;” and affirmed
that “the evils contained in Pandora’s box were but trifles compared with those that would
be consequent on railways.” Even in go-aheadative America, some steady jog trotting opponents
raised their voices against the nascent system; one of whom (a canal stockholder, by the way)
chronicled the following objective arguments. “He saw what would be the effect of it; that
it would set the whole world a-gadding.  Twenty miles an hour, sir!  Why you will not be able
to keep an apprentice-boy at his work; every Saturday evening he must take a trip to Ohio,
to spend the Sabbath with his sweetheart.  Grave plodding citizens will be flying about like
comets.  All local attachments must be at an end.  It will encourage flightiness of intellect.
Veracious people will turn into the most immeasurable liars; all their conceptions will be
exaggerated by their magnificent notions of distance.  ‘Only a hundred miles off!  Tut, nonsense,
I’ll step across, madam, and bring your fan!’ ‘Pray, sir, will you dine with me to-day at my
little box at Alleghany?’ ‘Why, indeed, I don’t know.  I shall be in town until twelve.  Well,
I shall be there; but you must let me off in time for the theatre.’  And then, sir, there will
be barrels of pork, and cargoes of flour, and chaldrons of coals, and even lead and whiskey,
and such-like sober things that have always been used to sober travelling, whisking away like
a set of sky-rockets.  It will upset all the gravity of the nation.  If two gentlemen have
an affair of honour, they have only to steal off to the Rocky Mountains, and there no jurisdiction
can touch them.  And then, sir, think of flying for debt!  A set of bailiffs, mounted on bomb-shells,
would not overtake an absconded debtor, only give him a fair start.  Upon the whole, sir, it
is a pestilential, topsy-turvy, harum-scarum whirligig.  Give me the old, solemn, straightforward,
regular Dutch canal—three miles an hour for expresses, and two for ordinary journeys, with
a yoke of oxen for a heavy load!  I go for beasts of burthen: it is more primitive and scriptural,
and suits a moral and religious people better.  None of your hop-skip-and-jump whimsies for me.”

                                               —Sharpe’s London Journal.

AN UNPLEASANT TRIAL TRIP.

Mr. O. F. Adams remarks:—“A famous trial trip with a new locomotive engine was that made on
the 9th of August, 1831, on the new line from Albany to Schenectady over the Mohawk Valley
road.  The train was made up of a locomotive, the De Witt Clinton, its tender, and five or
six passenger coaches—which were, indeed, nothing but the bodies of stage coaches placed upon
trucks.  The first two of these coaches were set aside for distinguished visitors; the others
were surmounted with seats of plank to accommodate as many as possible of the great throng
of persons who were anxious to participate in the trip.  Inside and out the coaches were crowded;
every seat was full.  They presented a very motley appearance on arriving at the first station.”
Here, “a short stop was made, and a successful experiment tried to remedy the unpleasant jerks.
A plan was soon hit upon and put into execution.  The three links in the couplings of the cars
were stretched to their utmost tension, a rail from a fence in the neighbourhood was placed
between each pair of cars and made fast by means of the packing yarn from the cylinders.  This
arrangement improved the order of things, and it was found to answer the purpose when the signal
was again given and the engine started.’”

PROGNOSTICATIONS OF FAILURE.

In the year 1831, the writer of a pamphlet, who styled himself Investigator, essayed the task
of “proving by facts and arguments” that a railway between London and Birmingham would be a
“burden upon the trade of the country and would never pay.”  The difficulties and dangers of
the enterprise he thus sets forth:—

“The causes of greater danger on the railway are several.  A velocity of fifteen miles an hour
is in itself a great source of danger, as the smallest obstacle might produce the most serious
consequences.  If, at that rate, the engine or any forward part of the train should suddenly
stop, the whole would be cracked by the collision like nutshells.  At all turnings there is
a danger that the latter part of the train may swing off the rails; and, if that takes place,
the most serious consequences must ensue before the whole train can be stopped.  The line,
too, upon which the train must be steered admits of little lateral deviation, while a stage
coach has a choice of the whole roadway.  Independently of the velocity, which in coaches is
the chief source of danger, there are many perils on the railway, the rails stand up like so
many thick knives, and any one alighting on them would have but a slight chance of his life
. . .  Another consideration which would deter travellers, more especially invalids, ladies,
and children, from making use of the railways, would be want of accommodation along the line,
unless the directors of the railway choose to build inns as commodious as those on the present
line of road. But those inns the directors would have in part to support also, because they
would be out of the way of any business except that arising from the railway, and that would
be so trifling and so accidental that the landlords could not afford to keep either a cellar
or a larder.

Robert Stephenson, while engaged in the survey of the above line, encountered much opposition
from landed proprietors.

A great deal of opposition was encountered in making the surveys for the London and Birmingham
Railway, and although, in every case, as little damage was done as possible, simply because
it was the interest of those concerned to conciliate all parties along the line, yet, in several
instances, the opposition was of a most violent nature; in one case no skill or ingenuity could
evade the watchfulness and determination of the lords of the soil, and the survey was at last
accomplished at night by means of dark lanterns.

On another occasion, when Mr. Gooch was taking levels through some of the large tracts of grazing
land, a few miles from London, two brothers, occupying the land came to him in a great rage,
and insisted on his leaving their property immediately.  He contrived to learn from them that
the adjoining field was not theirs and he therefore remonstrated but very slightly with them,
and then walked quietly through the gap in the hedge into the next field, and planted his level
on the highest ground he could find—his assistant remaining at the last level station, distant
about a hundred and sixty yards, apparently quite unconscious of what had taken place, although
one of the brothers was moving very quickly towards him, for the purpose of sending him off.
Now, if the assistant had moved his staff before Mr. Gooch had got his sight at it through
the telescope of his level, all his previous work would have been completely lost, and the
survey must have been completed in whatever manner it could have been done—the great object,
however, was to prevent this serious inconvenience.  The moment Mr. Gooch commenced looking
through his telescope at the staff held by his assistant, the grazier nearest him, spreading
out the tails of his coat, tried to place himself between the staff and the telescope, in order
to intercept all vision, and at the same time commenced shouting violently to his comrade,
desiring him to make haste and knock down the staff.  Fortunately for Mr. Gooch, although nature
had made this amiable being’s ears longer than usual, yet they performed their office very
badly, and as he could not see distinctly what Mr. Gooch was about—the hedge being between
them—he very simply asked the man at the staff what his (the enquirer’s) brother said.  “Oh,”
replied the man, “he is calling to you to stop that horse there which is galloping out of the
fold yard.”  Away went Clodpole, as fast as he could run, to restrain the unruly energies of
Smolensko the Ninth, or whatever other name the unlucky quadruped might be called, and Mr.
Gooch in the meanwhile quietly took the sight required—he having, with great judgment, planted
his level on ground sufficiently high to enable him to see over the head of any grazier in
the land; but his clever assistant, as soon as he perceived that all was right, had to take
to his heels and make the shortest cut to the high road.

                                —Roscoe’s London and Birmingham Railway.

SANITARY OBJECTIONS.

Mr. Smiles, in his Life of George Stephenson, remarks:—“Sanitary objections were also urged
in opposition to railways, and many wise doctors strongly inveighed against tunnels.  Sir Anthony
Carlisle insisted that “tunnels would expose healthy people to colds, catarrhs, and consumption.”
The noise, the darkness, and the dangers of tunnel travelling were depicted in all their horrors.
Worst of all, however, was ‘the destruction of the atmospheric air,’ as Dr. Lardner termed
it. Elaborate calculations were made by that gentleman to prove that the provision of ventilating
shafts would be altogether insufficient to prevent the dangers arising from the combustion
of coke, producing carbonic acid gas, which in large quantities was fatal to life.  He showed,
for instance, that in the proposed Box tunnel, on the Great Western Railway, the passage of
100 tons would deposit about 3090 lbs. of noxious gases, incapable of supporting life!  Here
was an uncomfortable prospect of suffocation for passengers between London and Bristol.  But
steps were adopted to allay these formidable sources of terror.  Solemn documents, in the form
of certificates, were got up and published, signed by several of the most distinguished physicians
of the day, attesting the perfect wholesomeness of tunnels, and the purity of the air in them.
Perhaps they went further than was necessary in alleging, what certainly subsequent experience
has not verified, that the atmosphere of the tunnel was ‘dry, of an agreeable temperature,
and free from smell.’  Mr. Stephenson declared his conviction that a tunnel twenty miles long
could be worked safely and without more danger to life than a railway in the open air; but,
at the same time, he admits that tunnels were nuisances, which he endeavoured to avoid wherever
practicable.”

ELEVATED RAILWAYS.

In the Gentleman’s Magazine for June, 1830, it is stated:—“There are at present exhibiting
in Edinburgh three large models, accompanied with drawings of railways and their carriages,
invented by Mr. Dick, who has a patent.  These railways are of a different nature from those
hitherto in use, inasmuch as they are not laid along the surface of the ground, but elevated
to such a height as, when necessary, to pass over the tops of houses and trees.  The principal
supports are of stone, and, being placed at considerable distances, have cast-iron pillars
between them.  The carriages are to be dragged along with a velocity hitherto unparalleled,
by means of a rope drawn by a steam engine or other prime mover, a series being placed at intervals
along the railway.  From the construction of the railway and carriages the friction is very small.”

EVIDENCE OF A GENERAL SALESMAN.

The advantages London derives from railways, in regard to its supply of good meat, may be gathered
from the evidence given by Mr. George Rowley in 1834, on behalf of the Great Western Railway
Company.

“You have been a general salesman of live and dead stock of all descriptions in Newgate Market
32 years?”—“Yes.”

“What is about the annual amount of your sales?”—“I turn over £300,000 in a year.”

“Would a railway that facilitated the communication between London and Bristol be an advantage
to your business?”—“I think it would be a special advantage to London altogether.”

“In what way?”—“The facility of having goods brought in reference to live stock is very important;
I have been in the habit of paying Mr. Bowman, of Bristol, £1,000 a-week for many weeks; that
has been for sending live hogs to me to be sold, to be slaughtered in London; and I have, out
of that £1,000 a-week as many as 40 or 50 pigs die on the road, and they have sold for little
or nothing.  The exertion of the pigs kills them.”

“The means of conveying pigs on a railway would be a great advantage?”—“Yes, as far as having
the pigs come good to market, without being subject to a distemper that creates fever, and
they die as red as that bag before you, and when they are killed in good health they die a
natural colour.”

“Then do I understand you that those who are fortunate enough to survive the journey are the
worse for it?”—“Yes, in weight.”

“And in quality?”—“Yes!  All meat killed in the country, and delivered in the London market
dead, in a good state, will make from 6d. to 8d. a stone more than what is slaughtered in London.”

THE ANXIOUS HAIR-DRESSER.

“Clanwilliam mentioned this evening an incident which proves the wonderful celerity of the
railroads.  Mr. Isidore, the Queen’s coiffeur, who receives £2,000 a year for dressing Her
Majesty’s hair twice-a-day, had gone to London in the morning to return to Windsor in time
for her toilet; but on arriving at the station he was just five minutes too late, and saw the
train depart without him.  His horror was great, as he knew that his want of punctuality would
deprive him of his place, as no train would start for the next two hours.  The only resource
was to order a special train, for which he was obliged to pay £18; but the establishment feeling
the importance of his business, ordered extra steam to be put on, and convoyed the anxious
hair-dresser 18 miles in 18 minutes, which extricated him from all his difficulties.”

                                      Raike’s Diary from 1831 to 1847.

SHARP PRACTICE.

Sir Francis Head, Bart., in his Stokers and Pokers, remarks:—“During the construction of the
present London and North Western Railway, a landlady at Hillmorton, near Rugby, of very sharp
practice, which she had imbibed in dealings for many years with canal boatmen, was constantly
remarking aloud that no navvy should ever “do” her; and although the railway was in her immediate
neighbourhood, and although the navvies were her principal customers, she took pleasure on
every opportunity in repeating the invidious remark.

“It had, however, one fine morning scarcely left her large, full-blown, rosy lips, when a fine-looking
young fellow, walking up to her, carrying in both hands a huge stone bottle, commonly called
a ‘grey-neck,’ briefly asked her for ‘half a gallon of gin;’ which was no sooner measured and
poured in than the money was rudely demanded before it could be taken away.

“On the navvy declining to pay the exorbitant price asked, the landlady, with a face like a
peony, angrily told him he must either pay for the gin or instantly return it.

“He silently chose the latter, and accordingly, while the eyes of his antagonist were wrathfully
fixed upon his, he returned into her measure the half gallon, and then quietly walked off;
but having previously put into his grey-neck half a gallon of water, each party eventually
found themselves in possession of half a gallon of gin and water; and, however either may have
enjoyed the mixture, it is historically recorded at Hillmorton that the landlady was never
again heard unnecessarily to boast that no navvy could do her.”

A NAVVY’S REASON FOR NOT GOING TO CHURCH.

A navvy at Kilsby, being asked why he did not go to church? duly answered in geological language—“Why,
Soonday hasn’t cropped out here yet!” By which he meant that the clergyman appointed to the
new village had not yet arrived.

SNAKES’ HEADS.

One of the earliest forms of rails used by the Americans consisted of a flat bar half-an-inch
thick spiked down to longitudinal timbers.  In the process of running the train, the iron was
curved, the spikes loosened, and the ends of the bars turned up, and were known by the name
of snakes’ heads.  Occasionally they pierced the bottoms of the carriages and injured passengers,
and it was no uncommon thing to hear passengers speculate as to which line they would go by,
as showing fewest snakes’ heads.

PREJUDICE REMOVED.

Mr. William Reed, a land agent, was called, in 1834, to give evidence in favour of the Great
Western Railway.  He was questioned as to the benefits conferred upon the localities passed
through by the Manchester and Liverpool Railway.  He was asked, “From your knowledge of the
property in the neighbourhood, can you say that the houses have not decreased in value?”  “Yes;
I know an instance of a gentleman who had a house very near, and, though he quarrelled very
much with the Company when they came there, and said, ‘Very well, if you will come let me have
a high wall to keep you out of sight,’ and a year-and-a-half ago he petitioned the Company
to take down the wall, and he has put up an iron railing, so that he may see them.”

A RIDE FROM BOSTON TO PROVIDENCE IN 1835.

The early railway enterprise in America was not regarded by all persons with feelings of unmixed
satisfaction.  Thus we read of the railway journey taken by a gentleman of the old school,
whose experience and sensations—if not very satisfactory to himself—are worth recording:—“July
22, 1835.—This morning at nine o’clock I took passage in a railroad car (from Boston) for Providence.
Five or six other cars were attached to the locomotive, and uglier boxes I do not wish to travel
in.  They were made to stow away some thirty human beings, who sit cheek by jowl as best they
can.  Two poor fellows who were not much in the habit of making their toilet squeezed me into
a corner, while the hot sun drew from their garments a villanous compound of smells made up
of salt fish, tar, and molasses.  By and bye, just twelve—only twelve—bouncing factory girls
were introduced, who were going on a party of pleasure to Newport.  ‘Make room for the ladies!’
bawled out the superintendent, ‘Come, gentlemen, jump up on the top; plenty of room there.’
‘I’m afraid of the bridge knocking my brains out,’ said a passenger.  Some made one excuse
and some another.  For my part, I flatly told him that since I had belonged to the corps of
Silver Greys I had lost my gallantry, and did not intend to move.  The whole twelve were, however,
introduced, and soon made themselves at home, sucking lemons and eating green apples. . . 
The rich and the poor, the educated and the ignorant, the polite and the vulgar, all herd together
in this modern improvement of travelling.  The consequence is a complete amalgamation.  Master
and servant sleep heads and points on the cabin floor of the steamer, feed at the same table,
sit in each other’s laps, as it were, in the cars; and all this for the sake of doing very
uncomfortably in two days what would be done delightfully in eight or ten.  Shall we be much
longer kept by this toilsome fashion of hurrying, hurrying, from starting (those who can afford
it) on a journey with our own horses, and moving slowly, surely, and profitably through the
country, with the power of enjoying its beauty, and be the means of creating good inns.  Undoubtedly,
a line of post-horses and post-chaises would long ago have been established along our great
roads had not steam monopolized everything. . . .  Talk of ladies on board a steamboat or in
a railroad car.  There are none!  I never feel like a gentleman there, and I cannot perceive
a semblance of gentility in any one who makes part of the travelling mob.  When I see women
whom, in their drawing rooms or elsewhere, I have been accustomed to respect and treat with
every suitable deference—when I see them, I say, elbowing their way through a crowd of dirty
emigrants or lowbred homespun fellows in petticoats or breeches in our country, in order to
reach a table spread for a hundred or more, I lose sight of their pretensions to gentility
and view them as belonging to the plebeian herd.  To restore herself to her caste, let a lady
move in select company at five miles an hour, and take her meals in comfort at a good inn,
where she may dine decently. . . .  After all, the old-fashioned way of five or six miles,
with liberty to dine in a decent inn and be master of one’s movements, with the delight of
seeing the country and getting along rationally, is the mode to which I cling, and which will
be adopted again by the generations of after times.”

                                         —Recollections of Samuel Breck.

APPEALING TO THE CLERGY.

Mr. C. F. Adams remarks:—“During the periods of discouragement which, a few years later, marked
certain stages of the construction of the Western road, connecting Worcester with Albany—when
both money and courage seemed almost exhausted—Mr. De Grand never for a moment faltered.  He
might almost be said to have then had Western railroad on the brain.  Among other things, he
issued a circular which caused much amusement and not improbably some scandal among the more
precise.  The Rev. S. K. Lothrop, then a young man, had preached a sermon in Brattle Street
Church which attracted a good deal of attention, on the subject of the moral and Christianizing
influence of railroads.  Mr. De Grand thought he saw his occasion, and he certainly availed
himself of it.  He at once had a circular printed, a copy of which he sent to every clergyman
in Massachusetts, suggesting the propriety of a discourse on ‘The moral and Christianizing
influence of railroads in general and of the Western railroad in particular.’”

AIR-WAYS INSTEAD OF RAILWAYS.

In the Mechanics’ Magazine for July 22nd, 1837, is to be found the following remarkable suggestion:—“In
many parts of the new railroads, where there has been some objection to the locomotive engines,
stationary ones are resorted to, as everyone knows to draw the vehicles along.  Why might not
these vehicles be balloons?  Why, instead of being dragged on the surface of the ground, along
costly viaducts or under disagreeable tunnels, might they not travel two or three hundred feet
high?  By balloons, I mean, of course, anything raised in the air by means of a gas lighter
than the air.  They might be of all shapes and sizes to suit convenience.  The practicability
of this plan does not seem to be doubtful.  Its advantages are obvious.  Instead of having
to purchase, as for a railway, the whole line of track passed over, the company for a balloon-way
would only have to procure those spots of ground on which they proposed to erect stationary
engines; and these need in no case be of peculiar value, since their being a hundred yards
one way or the other would make little difference.  Viaducts of course would never be necessary,
cuttings in very few occasions indeed, if at all.  The chief expense of balloons is their inflation,
which is renewed at every new ascent; but in these balloons the gas once in need never to be
let out, and one inflation would be enough.”

The same writer a few years later on observes:—“One feature of the air-way to supersede the
railway would be, that besides preventing the destruction of the architectural beauties of
the metropolis, now menaced by the multitudinous network of viaducts and subways at war with
the existing thoroughfares, it would occasion the construction of numerous lofty towers as
stations of arrival and departure, which would afford an opportunity of architectural effect
hitherto undreamed of.”

PREJUDICE AGAINST CARRYING COALS BY RAILWAYS.

Rev. F. S. Williams in an article upon “Railway Revolutions,” remarks:—“When railways were
first established it was never imagined that they would be so far degraded as to carry coals;
but George Stephenson and others soon saw how great a service railways might render in developing
and distributing the mineral wealth of the country.  Prejudice had, however, to be timidly
and vigorously overcome.  When it was mentioned to a certain eminent railway authority that
George Stephenson had spoken of sending coals by railway: ‘Coals!’ he exclaimed, ‘they will
want us to carry dung next.’  The remark was reported to ‘Old George,’ who was not behind his
critic in the energy of his expression.  ‘You tell B—,’ he said, ‘that when he travels by railway,
they carry dung now!’ The strength of the feeling against the traffic is sufficiently illustrated
by the fact that, when the London and Birmingham Railway began to carry coal, the wagons that
contained it were sheeted over that their contents might not be seen; and when a coal wharf
was first made at Crick station, a screen was built to hide the work from the observation of
passengers on the line.  Even the possibility of carrying coal at a remunerative price was
denied.  ‘I am very sorry,’ said Lord Eldon, referring to this subject, ‘to find the intelligent
people of the north country gone mad on the subject of railways;’ and another eminent authority
declared: ‘It is all very well to spend money; it will do some good; but I will eat all the
coals your railway will carry.’

“George Stephenson, however, and other friends of coal, held on their way; and he declared
that the time would come when London would be supplied with coal by railway.

A correspondent writes to the Pall Mall Gazette:—“Our poetic literature, so rich in other respects,
is entirely wanting in epitaphs on the victims of railway accidents.  A specimen of what may
be turned in this line is to be seen on a tombstone in the picturesque churchyard of Harrow-on-the-Hill.
It was, I observe, written as long ago as 1838, so that it can be reproduced without much danger
of hurting the feelings of those who may have known and loved the subject of this touching
elegy. The name of the victim was Port, and the circumstances of his death are thus set forth:—

    Bright was the morn, and happy rose poor Port;
    Gay on the train he used his wonted sport.
    Ere noon arrived his mangled form they bore
    With pain distorted and overwhelmed with gore.
    When evening came and closed the fatal day,
    A mutilated corpse the sufferer lay.”

AN ENGINE-DRIVER’S EPITAPH.

In the cemetery at Alton, Illinois, there is a tombstone bearing the following inscription:—

    “My engine is now cold and still.
    No water does my boiler fill.
    My coke affords its flame no more,
    My days of usefulness are o’er;
    My wheels deny their noted speed,
    No more my guiding hand they heed;
    My whistle—it has lost its tone,
    Its shrill and thrilling sound is gone;
    My valves are now thrown open wide,
    My flanges all refuse to glide;
    My clacks—alas! though once so strong,
    Refuse their aid in the busy throng;
    No more I feel each urging breath,
    My steam is now condensed in death;
    Life’s railway o’er, each station past,
    In death I’m stopped, and rest at last.”

This epitaph was written by an engineer on the old Chicago and Mississippi Railroad, who was
fatally injured by an accident on the road; and while he lay awaiting the death which he knew
to be inevitable, he wrote the lines which are engraved upon his tombstone.

TRAFFIC-TAKING.

Between the years 1836 and 1839, when there were many railway acts applied for, traffic-taking
became a lucrative calling.  It was necessary that some approximate estimate should be made
as to the income which the lines might be expected to yield.  Arithmeticians, who calculated
traffic receipts, were to be found to prove what promoters of railways required to satisfy
shareholders and Parliamentary Committees.  The Eastern Counties Railway was estimated to pay
a dividend of 23½ per cent.; the London and Cambridge, 14½ per cent.; the Sheffield and Manchester,
18½ per cent.  One shareholder of this company was so sanguine as to the success of the line
that in a letter to the Railway Magazine he calculated on a dividend of 80 per cent.  Bitter
indeed must have been the disappointment of those railway shareholders who pinned their faith
to the estimates of traffic-takers, when instead of receiving large dividends, little was received,
and in some instances the lines paid no dividend at all.

MONEY LOST AND FOUND.

On Friday night, a servant of the Birmingham Railway Company found in one of the first-class
carriages, after the passengers had left, a pocket book containing a check on a London Bank
for £2,000 and £2,500 in bank notes.  He delivered the book and its contents to the principal
officer, and it was forwarded to the gentleman to whom it belonged, his address being discovered
from some letters in the pocket book.  He had gone to bed, and risen and dressed himself next
morning without discovering his loss, which was only made known by the restoration of the property.
He immediately tendered £20 to the party who had found his money, but this being contrary to
the regulations of the directors, the party, though a poor man, could not receive the reward.
As the temptation, however, was so great to apply the money to his own use, the matter is to
be brought before a meeting of the directors.

                                                  —Aris’s Gazette, 1839.

ORIGIN OF COOK’S RAILWAY EXCURSIONS.

Mr. Thomas Cook, the celebrated excursionist, in an article in the Leisure Hour remarks:—“As
a pioneer in a wide field of thought and action, my course can never be repeated.  It has been
mine to battle against inaugural difficulties, and to place the system on a basis of consolidated
strength.  It was mine to lay the foundations of a system on which others, both individuals
and companies, have builded, and there is not a phase of the tourist plans of Europe and America
that was not embodied in my plans or foreshadowed in my ideas.  The whole thing seemed to come
to me as by intuition, and my spirit recoiled at the idea of imitation.

“The beginning was very small, and was on this wise.  I believe that the Midland Railway from
Derby to Rugby via Leicester was opened in 1840. At that time I knew but little of railways,
having only travelled over the Leicester and Swannington line from Leicester to Long Lane,
a terminus near to the Leicestershire collieries.  The reports in the papers of the opening
of the new line created astonishment in Leicestershire, and I had read of an interchange of
visits between the Leicester and Nottingham Mechanics’ Institutes.  I was an enthusiastic temperance
man, and the secretary of a district association, which embraced parts of the two counties
of Leicester and Northampton.  A great meeting was to be held at Leicester, over which Lawrence
Heyworth, Esq., of Liverpool—a great railway as well as temperance man—was advertised to preside.
From my residence at Market Harborough I walked to Leicester (fifteen miles) to attend that
meeting.  About midway between Harborough and Leicester—my mind’s eye has often reverted to
the spot—a thought flashed through my brain, what a glorious thing it would be if the newly-developed
powers of railways and locomotion could be made subservient to the promotion of temperance.
That thought grew upon me as I travelled over the last six or eight miles.  I carried it up
to the platform, and, strong in the confidence of the sympathy of the chairman, I broached
the idea of engaging a special train to carry the friends of temperance from Leicester to Loughborough
and back to attend a quarterly delegate meeting appointed to be held there in two or three
weeks following.  The chairman approved, the meeting roared with excitement, and early next
day I proposed my grand scheme to John Fox Bell, the resident secretary of the Midland Counties
Railway Company.  Mr. Paget, of Loughborough, opened his park for a gala, and on the day appointed
about five hundred passengers filled some twenty or twenty-five open carriages—they were called
‘tubs’ in those days—and the party rode the enormous distance of eleven miles and back for
a shilling, children half-price.  We carried music with us, and music met us at the Loughborough
station.  The people crowded the streets, filled windows, covered the house-tops, and cheered
us all along the line, with the heartiest welcome.  All went off in the best style and in perfect
safety we returned to Leicester; and thus was struck the keynote of my excursions, and the
social idea grew upon me.”

THE DEODAND.

It was a principle of English common law derived from the feudal period, that anything through
the instrumentality of which death occurred was forfeited to the crown as a deodand; accordingly
down to the year 1840 and even later, we find, in all cases where persons were killed, records
of deodands levied by the coroners’ juries upon locomotives.  These appear to have been arbitrarily
imposed and graduated in amount accordingly as circumstances seemed to excite in greater or
less degree the sympathies or the indignation of the jury.  In November, 1838, for instance,
a locomotive exploded upon the Liverpool and Manchester line, killing its engineer and fireman;
and for this escapade a deodand of twenty pounds was assessed upon it by the coroner’s jury;
while upon another occasion, in 1839, when the locomotive struck and killed a man and horse
at a street crossing, the deodand was fixed at no less a sum than fourteen hundred pounds,
the full value of the engine.  Yet in this last case there did not appear to be any circumstances
rendering the company liable in civil damages.  The deodand seems to have been looked upon
as a species of rude penalty imposed on the use of dangerous appliances, a sharp reminder to
the companies to look sharply after their locomotives and employés.  Thus upon the 24th of
December, 1841, on the Great Western Railway, a train, while moving through a thick fog at
a high rate of speed, came suddenly in contact with a mass of earth which had slid from the
embankment at the side on to the track.  Instantly the whole rear of the train was piled up
on the top of the first carriage, which happened to be crowded with passengers, eight of whom
were killed on the spot, while seventeen others were more or less injured.  The coroner’s jury
returned a verdict of accidental death, and at the same time, as if to give the company a forcible
hint to look closer to the condition of its embankment, a deodand of one hundred pounds was
levied on the locomotive and tender.

AN UNFORTUNATE DISCUSSION.

Two gentlemen sitting opposite each other in a railway carriage got into a political argument;
one was elderly and a staunch Conservative, the other was young and an ultra-Radical.  It may
be readily conceived that, as the argument went on, the abuse became fast and furious; all
sorts of unpleasant phrases and epithets were bandied about, personalities were freely indulged
in, and the other passengers were absolutely compelled to interfere to prevent a fracas.  At
the end of the journey the disputants parted in mutual disgust, and looking unutterable things.
It so happened that the young man had a letter of introduction to an influential person in
the neighbourhood respecting a legal appointment which was then vacant, which the young man
desired to obtain, and which the elderly gentleman had the power to secure.  The young petitioner,
first going to his hotel and making himself presentable, sallied forth on his errand.  He reached
the noble mansion of the person to whom his letter of introduction was addressed, was ushered
into an ante-room, and there awaited, with mingled hope and fear, the all-important interview.
After a few minutes the door opened and, horrible to relate! he who entered was the young man’s
travelling opponent, and thus the opponents of an hour since stood face to face.  The confusion
and humiliation on the one side, and the hauteur and coldness on the other, may be readily
imagined.  Sir Edward C—, however—for such he was—although he instantly recognized his recent
antagonist, was too well-bred to make any allusion to the transaction.  He took the letter
of introduction in silence, read it, folded it up, and returned it to the presenter with a
bitter smile and the following speech: “Sir, I am infinitely obliged to my friend, Mr. —, for
recommending to my notice a gentleman whom he conceives to be so well fitted for the vacant
post as yourself; but permit me to say that, inasmuch as the office you are desirous to fill
exists upon a purely Conservative tenure, and can only be appropriately administered by a person
of Conservative tendency, I could not think of doing such violence to your well-known political
principles as to recommend you for the post in question.”  With these words and another smile
more grim than before, Sir Edward C— bowed the chapfallen petitioner out, and he quickly took
his way to the railway station, secretly vowing never again to enter into political argument
with an unknown railway traveller.

                                    —The Railway Traveller’s Handy Book.

DOG TICKET.

Shortly after telegraphs were laid alongside of railways, a principal officer of a railway
company got into a compartment of a stopping train at an intermediate station.  The train had
hardly left, when an elderly gentleman, in terms of endearment, invited what turned out to
be a little Skye terrier to come out of its concealment under the seat.  The dog came out,
jumped up, and appeared to enjoy his journey until the speed of the train slackened previous
to stopping at a station, the dog then instinctively retreated to its hiding place, and came
out again in due course after the train had started.  The officer of the company left the train
at a station or two afterwards.  On its arrival at the London ticket platform the gentleman
delivered up the tickets for his party. “Dog ticket, sir, please.”  “Dog ticket, what dog ticket?”
“Ticket, sir, for Skye terrier, black and tan, with his ears nearly over his eyes; travelling,
for comfort’s sake, under the seat opposite to you, sir, in a large carpet bag, red ground
with yellow cross-bars.”  The gentleman found resistance useless; he paid the fare demanded,
when the ticket-collector—who throughout the scene had never changed a muscle—handed him a
ticket that he had prepared beforehand.  “Dog ticket, sir; gentlemen not allowed to travel
with a dog without a dog ticket; you will have to give it up in London.”  “Yes, but how did
you know I had a dog?  That’s what puzzles me!”  “Ah, sir,” said the ticket-collector, relaxing
a little, but with an air of satisfaction, “the telegraph is laid on our railway.  Them’s the
wires you see on the outside; we find them very useful in our business, etc.  Thank you, sir,
good morning.” It is needless to tell what part the principal officer played in this little
drama.  On arrival in London the dog ticket was duly claimed, a little word to that effect
having been sent up by a previous train to be sure to have it demanded, although, as a usual
practice, dog tickets are collected at the same time as those of passengers.

                                           —Roney’s Rambles on Railways.

THE ELECTRIC CONSTABLE.

The first application of the telegraph to police purposes took place in 1844, on the Great
Western Railway, and, as it was the first intimation thieves got of the electric constable
being on duty, it is full of interest.  The following extracts are from the telegraph book
kept at the Paddington Station:—

“Eton Montem Day, August 28, 1844.—The Commissioners of Police having issued orders that several
officers of the detective force shall be stationed at Paddington to watch the movements of
suspicious persons, going by the down train, and give notice by the electric telegraph to the
Slough station of the number of such suspected persons, and dress, their names (if known),
also the carriages in which they are.”

Now come the messages following one after the other, and influencing the fate of the marked
individuals with all the celerity, certainty, and calmness of the Nemesis of the Greek drama:—

“Paddington, 10.20 a.m.—Mail train just started.  It contains three thieves, named Sparrow,
Burrell, and Spurgeon, in the first compartment of the fourth first-class carriage.”

“Slough, 10.50 a.m.—Mail train arrived.  The officers have cautioned the three thieves.”

“Paddington, 10.50 a.m.—Special train just left.  It contained two thieves; one named Oliver
Martin, who is dressed in black, crape on his hat; the other named Fiddler Dick, in black trousers
and light blouse. Both in the third compartment of the first second-class carriage.”

“Slough, 11.16 a.m.—Special train arrived.  Officers have taken the two thieves into custody,
a lady having lost her bag, containing a purse with two sovereigns and some silver in it; one
of the sovereigns was sworn to by the lady as having been her property.  It was found in Fiddler
Dick’s watch fob.”

It appears that, on the arrival of the train, a policeman opened the door of the “third compartment
of the first second-class carriage,” and asked the passengers if they had missed anything?
A search in pockets and bags accordingly ensued, until one lady called out that her purse was gone.

“Fiddler Dick, you are wanted,” was the immediate demand of the police officer, beckoning to
the culprit, who came out of the carriage thunder-struck at the discovery, and gave himself
up, together with the booty, with the air of a completely beaten man.  The effect of the capture
so cleverly brought about is thus spoken of in the telegraph book:—

“Slough, 11.51 a.m.—Several of the suspected persons who came by the various down-trains are
lurking about Slough, uttering bitter invectives against the telegraph.  Not one of those cautioned
has ventured to proceed to the Montem.”

RUNAWAY MATCH.

Sir Francis Head in his account of the London and North-Western Railway remarks:—“During a
marriage which very lately took place at —, one of the bridesmaids was so deeply affected by
the ceremony that she took the opportunity of the concentrated interest excited by the bride
to elope from church with an admirer.  The instant her parents discovered their sad loss, messengers
were sent to all the railway stations to stop the fugitives.  The telegraph also went to work,
and with such effect that, before night, no less than four affectionate couples legitimately
married that morning were interrupted on their several marriage jaunts and most seriously bothered,
inconvenienced, and impeded by policemen and magistrates.”

A RAILWAY ROMANCE.

An incident of an amusing though of a rather serious nature occurred some years ago on the
London and South-Western Railway.  A gentleman, whose place of residence was Maple Derwell,
near Basingstoke, got into a first-class carriage at the Waterloo terminus, with the intention
of proceeding home by one of the main line down trains.  His only fellow-passengers in the
compartment were a lady and an infant, and another gentleman, and thus things remained until
the arrival of the train at Walton, where the other gentleman left the carriage, leaving the
first gentleman with the lady and child.  Shortly after this the train reached the Weybridge
station, and on its stopping the lady, under the pretence of looking for her servant or carriage,
requested her male fellow-passenger to hold the infant for a few minutes while she went to
search for what she wanted.  The bell rang for the starting of the train and the gentleman
thus strangely left with the baby began to get rather fidgety, and anxious to return his charge
to the mother.  The lady, however, did not again put in any appearance, and the train went
on without her, the child remaining with the gentleman, who, on arriving at his destination
took the child home to his wife and explained the circumstance under which it came into his
possession.  No application has, at present, it is understood, been made for the “lost child,”
which has for the nonce been adopted by the gentleman and his wife, who, it is said, are without
any family of their own.

GIGANTIC POWER OF LOCOMOTIVE ENGINES.

Sir Francis Head remarks:—“The gigantic power of the locomotive engines hourly committed to
the charge of these drivers was lately strangely exemplified in the large engine stable at
the Camden Station.  A passenger engine, whose furnace-fire had but shortly been lighted, was
standing in this huge building surrounded by a number of artificers, who, in presence of the
chief superintendent, were working in various directions around it.  While they were all busily
occupied, the fire in the furnace—by burning up faster than was expected—suddenly imparted
to the engine the breath of life; and no sooner had the minimum of steam necessary to move
it been thus created, than this infant Hercules not only walked off, but without the smallest
embarrassment walked through the 14-inch brick wall of the great building which contained it,
to the terror of the superintendent and workmen, who expected every instant that the roof above
their heads would fall in and extinguish them.  In consequence of the spindle of the regulator
having got out of its socket the very same accident occurred shortly afterwards with another
engine, which, in like manner, walked through another portion of this 14-inch wall of the stable
that contained it, just as a thorough-bred horse would have walked out of the door.  And if
such be the irresistible power of the locomotive engine when feebly walking in its new-born
state, unattended or unassisted even by its tender, is it not appalling to reflect what must
be its momentum when, in the full vigour of its life, it is flying down a steep gradient at
the rate of 50 miles an hour, backed up by, say, 30 passenger carriages, each weighing on an
average 5½ tons?  If ordinary houses could suddenly be placed in its path, it would, passengers
and all, run through them as a musket-ball goes through a keg of butter; but what would be
the result if, at this full speed, the engine by any accident were to be diverted against a
mass of solid rock, such as sometimes is to be seen at the entrance of a tunnel, it is impossible
to calculate or even to conjecture.  It is stated by the company’s superintendent, who witnessed
the occurrence, that some time ago an ordinary accident happening to a luggage train near Loughborough,
the wagons overrode each other until the uppermost one was found piled 40 feet above the rails!”

NOVEL NOTICE TO DEFAULTING SHAREHOLDERS.

In the early days of railway enterprise there was often much difficulty in obtaining the punctual
payment of calls from the shareholders.  The Leicester and Swannington line was thus troubled.
The Secretary, adopting a rather novel way to collect the calls, wrote to the defaulters:—“I
am therefore necessitated to inform you, that unless the sum of £2 is paid on or before the
22nd instant, your name will be furnished to one of the principal and most pressing creditors
of the company.”  The missives of the Secretary generally had the desired effect.

A QUICK DECISION.

The elder Brunel was habitually absent in society, but no man was more remarkable for presence
of mind in an emergency.  Numerous instances are recorded of this latter quality, but none
more striking than that of his adventure in the act of inspecting the Birmingham Railway. 
Suddenly in a confined part of the road a train was seen approaching from either end of the
line, and at a speed which it was difficult to calculate.  The spectators were horrified; there
was not an instant to be lost; but an instant sufficed to the experienced engineer to determine
the safest course under the circumstances.  Without attempting to cross the road, which would
have been almost certain destruction, he at once took his position exactly midway between the
up and down lines, and drawing the skirts of his coat close around him, allowed the two trains
to sweep past him; when to the great relief of those who witnessed the exciting scene, he was
found untouched upon the road.  Without the engineer’s experience which enabled him to form
so rapid a decision, there can be no doubt that he must have perished.

                                                  —The Temple Anecdotes.

THE VERSAILLES ACCIDENT IN 1842.

Mr. Charles F. Adams thus describes it:—“On the 8th of May, 1842, there happened in France
one of the most famous and horrible railroad slaughters ever recorded.  It was the birthday
of the king, Louis Phillipe, and, in accordance with the usual practice, the occasion had been
celebrated at Versailles by a great display of the fountains.  At half-past five o’clock these
had stopped playing, and a general rush ensued for the trains then about to leave for Paris.
That which went by the road along the left bank of the Seine was densely crowded, and was so
long that it required two locomotives to draw it.  As it was moving at a high rate of speed
between Bellevue and Menden, the axle of the foremost of these two locomotives broke, letting
the body of the engine drop to the ground.  It instantly stopped, and the second locomotive
was then driven by its impetus on top of the first, crushing its engineer and fireman, while
the contents of both the fire-boxes were scattered over the roadway and among the debris. 
Three carriages crowded with passengers were then piled on top of this burning mass, and there
crushed together into each other.  The doors of the train were all locked, as was then, and
indeed is still, the custom in Europe, and it so chanced that the carriages had all been newly
painted.  They blazed up like pine kindlings.  Some of the carriages were so shattered that
a portion of those in them were enabled to extricate themselves, but no less than forty were
held fast; and of these such as were not so fortunate as to be crushed to death in the first
shock perished hopelessly in the flames before the eyes of a throng of impotent lookers-on.
Some fifty-two or fifty-three persons were supposed to have lost their lives in this disaster,
and more than forty others were injured; the exact number of the killed, however, could never
be ascertained, as the telescoping of the carriages on top of the two locomotives had made
of the destroyed portion of the train a visible holocaust of the most hideous description.
Not only did whole families perish together—in one case no less than eleven members of the
same family sharing a common fate—but the remains of such as were destroyed could neither be
identified nor separated.  In one case a female foot was alone recognisable, while in others
the bodies were calcined and fused into an undistinguishable mass.  The Academy of Sciences
appointed a committee to inquire whether Admiral D’Urville, a distinguished French navigator,
was among the victims.  His body was thought to be found, but it was so terribly mutilated
that it could be recognized only by a sculptor, who chanced some time before to have taken
a phrenological cast of his skull.  His wife and only son had perished with him.

“It is not easy now to conceive the excitement and dismay which this catastrophe caused throughout
France.  The new invention was at once associated in the minds of an excitable people with
novel forms of imminent death.  France had at best been laggard enough in its adoption of the
new appliance, and now it seemed for a time as if the Versailles disaster was to operate as
a barrier in the way of all further railroad development.  Persons availed themselves of the
steam roads already constructed as rarely as possible, and then in fear and trembling, while
steps were taken to substitute horse for steam power on other roads then in process of construction.”

AN AMATEUR SIGNALMAN.

Mr. Williams in his book, Our Iron Roads, gives an account of a foolish act of signalling to
stop a train; he says:—“An Irishman, who appears to have been in some measure acquainted with
the science of signalling, was on one occasion walking along the Great Western line without
permission, when he thought he might reduce his information to practical use. Accordingly,
on seeing an express train approach, he ran a short distance up the side of the cutting, and
began to wave a handkerchief very energetically, which he had secured to a stick, as a signal
to stop.  The warning was not to be disregarded, and never was command obeyed with greater
alacrity.  The works of the engine were reversed—the tender and van breaks were applied—and
soon, to the alarm of the passengers, the train came to a ‘dead halt.’  A hundred heads were
thrust out of the carriage windows, and the guard had scarcely time to exclaim, ‘What’s the
matter?’ when Paddy, with a knowing touch of his ‘brinks,’ asked his ‘honour if he would give
him a bit of a ride?’  So polite and ingenuous a request was not to be denied, and, though
biting his lips with annoyance, the officer replied ‘Oh, certainly; jump in here,’ and the
pilgrim was ensconced in the luggage van.  But instead of having his ride ‘for his thanks,’
the functionary duly handed him over to the magisterial authorities, that he might be taught
the important lesson, that railway companies did not keep express trains for Irish beggars,
and that such costly machinery was not to be imperilled with impunity, either by their freaks
or their ignorance.”

STEAM WHISTLE.

In the early days of railways, the signal of alarm was given by the blowing of a horn.  In
the year, 1833, an accident occurred on the Leicester and Swannington railway near Thornton,
at a level crossing, through an engine running against a horse and cart.  Mr. Bagster, the
manager, after narrating the circumstance to George Stephenson, asked “Is it not possible to
have a whistle fitted on the engine, which the steam can blow?”  “A very good thought,” replied
Stephenson.  “You go to Mr. So-and-So, a musical instrument maker, and get a model made, and
we will have a steam whistle, and put it on the next engine that comes on the line.”  When
the model was made it was sent to the Newcastle factory and future engines had the whistle
fitted on them.

EXEMPTION FROM ACCIDENTS.

Mr. C. F. Adams, remarks:—“Indeed, from the time of Mr. Huskisson’s death, during the period
of over eleven years, railroads enjoyed a remarkable and most fortunate exemption from accidents.
During all that time there did not occur a single disaster resulting in any considerable loss
of life.  This happy exemption was probably due to a variety of causes.  Those early roads
were in the first place, remarkably well and thoroughly built, and were very cautiously operated
under a light volume of traffic.  The precautions then taken and the appliances in use would,
it is true, strike the modern railroad superintendent as both primitive and comical; for instance,
they involve the running of independent pilot locomotives in advance of all night passenger
trains, and it was, by the way, on a pioneer locomotive of this description, on the return
trip of the excursion party from Manchester after the accident to Mr. Huskisson, that the first
recorded attempt was made in the direction of our present elaborate system of night signals.
On that occasion obstacles were signalled to those in charge of the succeeding trains by a
man on the pioneer locomotive, who used for that purpose a bit of lighted tarred rope.  Through
all the years between 1830 and 1841, nevertheless, not a single serious railroad disaster had
to be recorded.  Indeed, the luck—for it was nothing else—of these earlier times was truly
amazing. Thus on this same Liverpool and Manchester road, as a first-class train on the morning
of April 17, 1836, was moving at a speed of some thirty miles an hour, an axle broke under
the first passenger carriage, causing the whole train to leave the rails and throwing it down
the embankment, which at that point was twenty feet high.  The carriages were rolled over,
and the passengers in them turned topsy-turvy; nor, as they were securely locked in, could
they even extricate themselves when at last the wreck of the train reached firm bearings. 
And yet no one was killed.”

RIVAL CONTRACTORS AND THE BLOTTING PAD.

In rails, the same system has prevailed.  Ironmasters have been pitted against each other,
as to which should produce an apparent rail at the lowest price.  At the outset of railways
the rails were made of iron. Competition gradually produced rails in which a core, of what
is technically called “cinder,” is covered up with a skin of iron; and the cleverest foreman
for an ironmaster was the man who could make rails with the maximum of cinder and the minimum
of iron.  In more than one instance has it been known in relaying an old line the worn-out
rails have been sold at a higher price per ton than the new ones were bought for; yet this
would hardly open the eyes of the buyers.  The contrivances which are resorted to to get hold
of one another’s prices beforehand by competing contractors are manifold; and, when they attend
in person, they commonly put off the filling up of their tender till the last moment. Once
a shrewd contractor found himself at the same inn with a rival who always trod close on his
heels.  He was followed about and cross-questioned incessantly, and gave vague answers.  Within
half-an-hour of the last moment he went into the coffee room and sat himself down in a corner
where his rival could not overlook him.  There and then he filled up his tender, and, as he
rose from the table, left behind him the paper on which he had blotted it.  As he left the
room his rival caught up the blotting paper, and, with the exulting glee of a consciously successful
rival, read off the amount backwards.  “Done this time!” was his mental thought, as he filled
up his own tender a dollar lower, and hastened to deposit it.  To his utter surprise, the next
day he found that he had lost the contract, and complainingly asked his rival how it was, for
he had tendered below him.  “How did you know you were below me?”  “Because I found your blotting
paper.”  “I thought so.  I left it on purpose for you, and wrote another tender in my bedroom.
You had better make your own calculations next time!”

                                       —Roads and Rails, by W. B. Adams.

RAILWAY LEGISLATION.

A writer in the Encyclopædia Britannica remarks:—“The expenses, direct and incidental, of obtaining
an Act of Parliament have been in many cases enormous, and generally are excessive.  The adherence
to useless and expensive forms of Parliamentary Committees in what are called the standing
orders, or general regulations for the observance of promoters of railway bills, on the one
part, and the itching for opposition of railway companies, to resist fancied inroads on vested
rights, supposed injurious competition, on the other part, have been amongst the sources of
excessive expenditure.  Mr. Stephenson mentioned an instance showing how Parliament has entailed
expense upon railway companies by the system complained of.  The Trent Valley Railway was under
other titles originally proposed in 1836.  It was, however, thrown out by the standing orders
committee, in consequence of a barn of the value of £10, which was shown upon the general plan,
not having been exhibited upon an enlarged sheet.  In 1840, the line again went before Parliament.
It was opposed by the Grand Junction Railway Company, now part of the London and North-Western.
No less than 450 allegations were made against it before the standing orders subcommittee,
which was engaged twenty-two days in considering those objections.  They ultimately reported
that four or five of the allegations were proved, but the committee nevertheless allowed the
bill to proceed.  It was read a second time and then went into committee, by whom it was under
consideration for sixty-three days; and ultimately Parliament was prorogued before the report
could be made. Such were the delays and consequent expenses which the forms of the House occasioned
in this case, that it may be doubted if the ultimate cost of constructing the whole line was
very much more than was expended in obtaining permission from Parliament to make it.  This
example serves to show the expensive formalities, the delays, and difficulties, with which
Parliament surround railway legislation.  Another instance, quoted by the same authority, will
show not only the absurdity of the system of legislation, but also the afflicting spirit of
competition and opposition with which railway bills are canvassed in Parliament, and the expensive
outlay incurred by companies themselves.

“In 1845, a bill for a line now existing went before Parliament with eighteen competitors,
each party relying on the wisdom of Parliament to allow their bill at least to pass a second
reading!  Nineteen different parties condemned to one scene of contentious litigation!  They
each and all had to pay not only the costs of promoting their own line, but also the costs
of opposing eighteen other bills.  And yet conscious as government must have been of this fact,
Parliament deliberately abandoned the only step it ever took on any occasion of subjecting
railway projects to investigation by a preliminary tribunal.  Parliamentary committees generally
satisfied themselves with looking on and watching the ruinous game of competition for which
the public are ultimately to pay.  In fact, railway legislation became a mere scramble, conducted
on no system or principle.  Schemes of sound character were allowed to be defeated on merely
technical grounds, and others of very inferior character were sanctioned by public act, after
enormous Parliamentary expenses had been incurred.  Competing lines were granted, sometimes
parallel lines through the same district, and between the same towns.”

AN EXPENSIVE PARLIAMENTARY BILL.

A writer in the Popular Encyclopædia observes:—“But the most conspicuous example in recent
times, which overshadowed all others, of excessive expenditure in Parliamentary litigation
as well as in land and compensation, is supplied in the history of the Great Northern Company.
The preliminary expenses of surveys, notices to landowners, etc., commenced in 1844, and the
Bill was introduced into the House of Commons in 1845, when it was opposed by the London and
North-Western, the Eastern Counties, and the Midland Railways.  It was further opposed successively
by two other schemes, called the London and York and the Direct Northern. The contest lasted
eighty-two days before the House of Commons, more than half the time having been consumed by
opposition to the Bill.  The Bill was allowed to stand over till next year (1846), when it
began, before the Committee of the House of Lords, where it left off in the Lower House in
the year 1845 on account of the magnitude of the case.  The Bill was before the Upper House
between three and four weeks, and in the same year (1846) it was granted.  The promoters of
the rival projects were bought off, and all their expenses paid, including the costs of the
opposition of the neighbouring lines already named, before the Great Northern bill was passed;
and the ‘preliminary expenses,’ comprising the whole expenditure of every kind up to the passing
of the bill was £590,355, or more than half-a-million sterling, incurred at the end of two
years of litigation.  Subsequently to the passing of the Act an additional sum of £172,722
was expended for law engineering expenses in Parliament to 31st December, 1857, which was spent
almost wholly in obtaining leave from Parliament to make various alterations.  Thus it would
appear that a sum total of £763,077 was spent as Parliamentary charges for obtaining leave
to construct 245 miles, being at the rate of £3,118 per mile.”

THE RECTOR AND HIS PIG.

“I have been a rector for many years,” writes a clergyman, “and have often heard and read of
tithe-pigs, though I have never met with a specimen of them.  But I had once a little pig given
to me which was of a choice breed, and only just able to leave his mother.  I had to convey
him by carriage to the X station; from thence, twenty-three miles to Y station, and from thence,
eighty-two miles to Z station, and from there, eight miles by carriage.  I had a comfortable
rabbit-hutch of a box made for him, with a supply of fresh cabbages for his dinner on the road.
I started off with my wife, children, and nurse; and of these impediments piggy proved to be
the most formidable.  First, a council of war was held over him at X station by the railway
officials, who finally decided that this small porker must travel as ‘two dogs.’  Two dog tickets
were therefore procured for him; and so we journeyed on to Y station.  There a second council
of war was held, and the officials of Y said that the officials of X (another line) might be
prosecuted for charging my piggy as two dogs, but that he must travel to Z as a horse, and
that he must have a huge horse-box entirely to himself for the next eighty-two miles. I declined
to pay for the horse-box—they refused to let me have my pig—officials swarmed around me—the
station master advised me to pay for the horse-box and probably the company would return the
extra charge.  I scorned the probability, having no faith in the company—the train (it was
a London express) was already detained ten minutes by this wrangle; and finally I whirled away
bereft of my pig.  I felt sure that he would be forwarded by the next train, but as that would
not reach Z till a late hour in the evening, and it was Saturday, I had to tell my pig tale
to the officials; and not only so, but to go to the adjacent hotel and hire a pig-stye till
the Monday, and fee a porter for seeing to the pig until I could send a cart for him on that
day.  Of course the pig was sent after me by the next train; and as the charge for him was
less than a halfpenny a mile, I presume he was not considered to be a horse.  Yet this fact
remains—and it is worth the attention of the Zoological Society, if not of railway officials—that
this small porker was never recognised as a pig, but began his railway journey as two dogs,
and was then changed into a horse.”

SIR MORTON PETO’S RAILWAY MISSION.

Mr., afterwards Sir S. Morton Peto, having undertaken the construction of certain railways
in East Anglia, was at this time in the habit of spending a considerable part of the year in
the neighbourhood of Norwich, and, with his family, joined Mr. Brock’s congregation.  It will
afterwards appear how many important movements turned upon the friendship which was thus formed;
but it is only now to be noted that, in the course of frequent conversations, the practicability
was discussed of attempting something which might serve to interest and improve the large number
of labourers employed on the works in progress.  They were part of that peculiar body of men
which had been gradually formed during a long course of years for employment in the construction,
first of navigable canals, and then of railways, and called, from their earlier occupation,
“navvies.”  They were drawn from diverse parts of the British Islands, and professed, in some
instances, hostile forms of religion, but were distinguished chiefly by extreme ignorance and
all but total spiritual insensibility.  They had, at the same time, a common life and an unwritten
law, affecting their relations to each other, their employers, and the rest of the world. 
That they were accessible to kind attentions—clearly disinterested—followed from their being
men, but they required to be approached with the greatest caution and patience.  Mr. Brock’s
wide and various sympathy, joined with his friend’s steady support, led—under the divine blessing—to
measures which proved very successful.  Mr. Peto constructed commodious halls capable of being
moved onward as the line of railway advanced, and affording comfortable shelter for the men
in their leisure hours, and furnished with books and publications supplying amusement, useful
information, and religious knowledge.  To give life to this apparatus, Christian men, carefully
selected, mingled familiarly with the rude but grateful toilers, helping them to read and write,
encouraging them to acquire self-command, and above all, especially when they were convened
on Sundays, presenting and pressing home upon them the words of eternal life.

Mr. Brock had liberty to draw on the “Railway Mission Account,” at the Norwich Bank, to any
extent that he found necessary, and in a short time he had a body of the best men, he was accustomed
to say, that he ever knew at work upon all the chief points of the lines.  No part of his now
extended labours gave him greater delight than in superintending these missionaries, reading
their weekly journals, arranging their periodical movements, counselling and comforting them
in their difficulties, and visiting them, sometimes apart and at other times at conferences
for united consultation and prayer, held at Yarmouth, Ely, or March.

Results of the best character, of which the record is on high, arose out of these operations.

                            —Birrell’s Life of the Rev. W. Brock, D.D.

CLEVER CAPTURE.

A few days ago (1845), a gentleman left Glasgow in one of the day trains, with a large sum
of money about his person.  On the train arriving at the Edinburgh terminus, the gentleman
left it, along with the other passengers, on foot for some distance.  It was not long, however,
before he discovered that his pocket book, containing £700, in bank notes was missing.  He
immediately returned to the terminus, where the first person he happened to find was the stoker
of the train that had brought him to Edinburgh, who, on being spoken to, remembered seeing
the gentleman leaving the terminus, and another person following close behind him, whom he
supposed to be his servant; he further stated, that the supposed servant had started to return
with the train which had just left for Glasgow.  The gentleman immediately ordered an express
train, but as some time elapsed before the steam could be got up, it was feared the gentleman
and the stoker would not reach Glasgow in time to secure the culprit.  However, having gone
the distance in about an hour, they had the satisfaction of seeing the train before them close
to the Cowlairs station, just about to descend the inclined plane and tunnel, and thus within
a mile and a half of the end of their journey.  The stoker immediately sounded his whistle,
which induced the conductor of the passenger train to conclude that some danger was in the
way, who had his train removed to the other line of rails, which left the road then quite clear
for the express train, which drove past the other with great speed, and arrived at the terminus
in sufficient time to get everything ready for the apprehension of the robber.  The stoker,
who thought he could identify the robber, assisted the police in searching the passenger train,
when the person whom he had taken for the gentleman’s servant was found with the pocket book
and also the £700 safe and untouched.  The gentleman then offered a handsome reward to the
stoker, who refused it on the plea that he had only done his duty; not satisfied, however,
with this answer, he left £100 with the manager, requesting him to pay the expenses of the
express train, and particularly to reward the stoker for his activity, and to remit the remainder
to his address.  Shortly after he received the whole £100, accompanied with a polite note,
declining any payment for the express train, and stating that it was the duty of the company
to reward the stoker, which they would not omit to do.

                                                      —Stirling Journal.

COMPENSATION FOR LAND.

Mr. Williams, in Our Iron Roads, gives much interesting information upon the subject of compensation
for land and buying off opposition to railway schemes.  He says:—“One noble lord had an estate
near a proposed line of railway, and on this estate was a beautiful mansion.  Naturally averse
to the desecration of his home and its neighbourhood, he gave his most uncompromising opposition
to the Bill, and found, in the Committee of both Houses, sympathizing listeners.  Little did
it aid the projectors that they urged that the line did not pass within six miles of that princely
domain; that the high road was much closer to his dwelling; and that, as the spot nearest the
house would be passed by means of a tunnel, no unsightliness would arise.  But no; no worldly
consideration affected the decision of the proprietor; and, arguments failing, it was found
that an appeal must be made to other means.  His opposition was ultimately bought off for twenty-eight
thousand pounds, to be paid when the railway reached his neighbourhood.  Time wore on, funds
became scarce, and the company found that it would be best to stop short at a particular portion
of their line, long before they reached the estate of the noble lord who had so violently opposed
their Bill, by which they sought to be released from the obligation of constructing the line
which had been so obnoxious to him.  What was their surprise at finding this very man their
chief opponent, and then fresh means had to be adopted for silencing his objections!

“A line had to be brought near to the property of a certain Member of Parliament.  It threatened
no injury to the estate, either by affecting its appearance or its intrinsic worth; and, on
the other hand, it afforded him a cheap, convenient, and expeditious means of communication
with the metropolis.  But the proprietor, being a legislator, had power at head-quarters, and
by his influence he nearly turned the line of railway aside; and this deviation would have
cost the projectors the sum of sixty thousand pounds.  Now it so happened that the house of
this honourable member, who had thus insisted on such costly deference to his peculiar feelings
respecting his property, was afflicted with the dry rot, and threatened every hour to fall
upon the head of its owner.  To pull down and rebuild it, would require the sum of thirty thousand
pounds.  The idea of compromise, beneficial to both parties, suggested itself.  If the railway
company rebuilt the house, or paid £30,000 to the owner of the estate, and were allowed to
pursue their original line, it was clear that they would be £30,000 the richer, as the enforced
deviation would cost £60,000; and, on the other hand, the owner of the estate would obtain
a secure house, or receive £30,000 in money.  The proposed bargain was struck, and £30,000
was paid by the Company.  ‘How can you live in that house,’ said some friend to him afterwards,
‘with the railroad coming so near?’  ‘Had it not done so,’ was the reply, ‘I could not have
lived in it at all.’

“One rather original character sold some land to the London and Birmingham Company, and was
loud and long in his outcries for compensation, expatiating on the damages which the formation
of the line would inevitably bring to his property.  His complaints were only stopped by the
payment of his demands.  A few months afterwards, a little additional land was required from
the same individual, when he actually demanded a much larger price for the new land than was
given him before; and, on surprise being expressed at the charge for that which he had declared
would inevitably be greatly deteriorated in value from the proximity of the railway, he coolly
replied: ‘Oh, I made a mistake then, in thinking the railway would injure my property; it has
increased its value, and of course you must pay me an increased price for it.’

“On one occasion, a trial occurred in which an eminent land valuer was put into the witness
box to swell the amount of damages, and he proceeded to expatiate on the injury committed by
railroads in general, and especially by the one in question, in cutting up the properties they
invaded.  When he had finished the delivery of this weighty piece of evidence, the counsel
for the Company put a newspaper into his hand, and asked him whether he had not inserted a
certain advertisement therein. The fact was undeniable, and on being read aloud, it proved
to be a declaration by the land valuer himself, that the approach of the railway which he had
come there to oppose, would prove exceedingly beneficial to some property in its immediate
vicinity then on sale.

“An illustration of the difference between the exorbitant demands made by parties for compensation,
and the real value of the property, may be mentioned.  The first claim made by the Directors
of the Glasgow Lunatic Asylum on the Edinburgh and Glasgow railway is stated to have been no
less than £44,000.  Before the trial came on, this sum was reduced to £10,000; the amount awarded
by the jury was £873.

“The opposition thus made, whether feigned or real, it was always advisable to remove; and
the money paid for this purpose, though ostensibly in the purchase of the ground, has been
on many occasions immense.  Sums of £35,000, £40,000, £50,000, £100,000, and £120,000, have
thus been paid; while various ingenious plans have been adopted of removing the opposition
of influential men.  An honourable member is said to have received £30,000 to withdraw his
opposition to a Bill before the House; and ‘not far off the celebrated year 1845, a lady of
title, so gossip talks, asked a certain nobleman to support a certain Bill, stating that, if
he did, she had the authority of the secretary of a great company to inform him that fifty
shares in a certain railway, then at a considerable premium, would be at his disposal.’

“One pleasing circumstance, however, highly honourable to the gentleman concerned, must not
be omitted.  The late Mr. Labouchere had made an agreement with the Eastern Counties Company
for a passage through his estate near Chelmsford, for the price of £35,000; his son and successor,
the Right Honourable Henry Labouchere, finding that the property was not deteriorated to the
anticipated extent, voluntarily returned £15,000.

“The practice of buying off opposition has not been confined to the proprietors of land.  We
learn from one of the Parliamentary Reports that in a certain district a pen-and-ink warfare
between two rival companies ran so high, and was, at least on one side, rewarded with such
success, that the friends of the older of the two projected lines thought it expedient to enter
into treaty with their literary opponent, and its editor very soon retired on a fortune.  It
is also asserted, on good authority, that, in a midland county, the facts and arguments of
an editor were wielded with such vigour that the opposing company found it necessary to adopt
extraordinary means on the occasion.  Bribes were offered, but refused; an opposition paper
was started, but its conductors quailed before the energy of their opponent, and it produced
little effect; every scheme that ingenuity could devise, and money carry out, was attempted,
but they successively and utterly failed.  At length a Director hit on a truly Machiavellian
plan—he was introduced to the proprietor of the journal, whom he cautiously informed that he
wished to risk a few thousands in newspaper property, and actually induced his unconscious
victim to sell the property, unknown to the editor.  When the bargain was concluded, the plot
was discovered; but it was then too late, and the wily Director took possession of the copyright
of the paper and the printing office on behalf of the company.  The services of the editor,
however, were not to be bought, he refused to barter away his independence, and retired—taking
with him the respect of both friends and enemies.”

A LANDOWNER’S OPPOSITION.

In Herepath’s Railway Journal for 1845 we meet with the following:—“A learned counsel, the
other day, gave as a reason for a wealthy and aristocratic landowner’s opposition to a great
line of railway approaching his residence by something more than a mile distance, that ‘His
Lordship rode horses that would not bear the puff of a steam engine.’  Truly this was a most
potent reason, and one that should weigh heavily against the scheme in the minds of the Committee.
His Lordship has a wood some two miles off, between which and his residence this railway is
intended to pass.  His lordship is fond of amusing himself there in hunting down little animals
called hares, and sometimes treats himself to a stag hunt.  Not the slightest interference
is contemplated with his lordship’s pastime, or rather pursuit, for such it is, occupying nearly
his whole time, and exercising all the ability of which he is possessed; but still he objects
to the intrusion.  The bridge that is to be constructed by the Company to give access to the
wood, or forest, is in itself all that could be wished, forming, rather than otherwise, an
ornamental structure to his lordship’s grounds; but then he fears that should an engine chance
(of course, these chances are not within his control) to pass under the bridge at the same
moment as he is passing over, his high blood horses would prance and rear, and suffer injury
therefrom.  His lordship is very careful and proud of his horse-flesh, and thinks it hard,
and what the legislature ought not to tolerate, that they (his horses) are to be worried, or
subjected to the chance of it, by making a railway to serve the public wants!

“This noble man is of opinion, too, that, should the railway be made, he is entitled to an
enormous amount of compensation; and, through his agent, assigns as a reason for his extravagant
demand—we do not exaggerate the fact—that he is averse to railways in general, and considers
the system as an unjustifiable invasion of the province of horse-flesh.  This horse jockey
lord thereby excuses his conscience in opposing and endeavouring to plunder the railway company
as far as he possibly can.”

PICTURE EVIDENCE.

Amongst laughable occurrences that enlivened the committee rooms during the gauge contest,
was a scene occasioned by a parliamentary counsel putting in as evidence, before the committee
on the Southampton and Manchester line, a printed picture of troubles consequent on a break
of gauge.  The picture was a forcible sketch that had appeared a few days before in the pages
of the Illustrated London News.  Opposing counsel of course argued against the production of
the work of art as testimony for the consideration of the committee.  After much argument on
both sides the chairman decided in favour of receiving the illustration, which was forthwith
put, amidst much laughter, into the hands of a witness, who was asked if it was a fair picture
of the evils that arose from a break of gauge.  The witness replying in the affirmative, the
engraving was then laid before the committee for inspection.

                                      —Railway Chronicle, June 13, 1846.

EXTRAORDINARY USE OF THE ELECTRIC TELEGRAPH.

Oct. 7, 1847.  An extraordinary instance has occurred of the application of the electric telegraph
at the London Bridge terminus of the South Eastern Railway.

Hutchings, the man found guilty and sentenced to death for poisoning his wife, was to have
been executed at Maidstone Goal at twelve o’clock. Shortly before the appointed hour for carrying
the sentence into effect, a message was received at the London Bridge terminus, from the Home
Office, requesting that an order should be sent by the electric telegraph instructing the Under-Sheriff
at Maidstone to stay the execution two hours.  By the agency of the electric telegraph the
communication was received in Maidstone with the usual rapidity, and the execution was for
a time stayed.  Shortly after the transmission of the order deferring the execution, a messenger
from the Home Office conveyed to the railway the Secretary of State’s order, that the law was
to take its course, and that the culprit was to be at once executed.  The telegraph clerk hesitated
to sending such a message without instructions from his principals.  The messenger from the
Home Office could not be certain that the order for Hutchings’s execution was signed by the
Home Secretary, although it bore his name; and Mr. Macgregor, the chairman, with great judgment
and humanity, instantly decided that it was not a sufficient authority in such a momentous matter.

An officer of confidence was immediately sent to the Secretary of State, to state their hesitation
and its cause, as the message was, in fact, a death warrant, and that Mr. Walter must have
undoubted evidence of its correctness.  On Mr. Walter drawing the attention of the Secretary
of State to the fact, that the transmission of such a message was, in effect, to make him the
Sheriff, the conduct of the railway company, in requiring unquestionable evidence and authority,
was warmly approved. The proper signature was affixed in Mr. Walter’s presence; and the telegraph
then conveyed to the criminal the sad news, that the suspension of the awful sentence was only
temporary.  Hutchings was executed soon after it reached Maidstone.

                                                 —Annual Register, 1847.

LOST LUGGAGE.

Sir Francis Head, giving an account of the contents of the Lost Luggage Office, at Euston Station,
observes:—“But there were a few articles that certainly we were not prepared to meet with,
and which but too clearly proved that the extraordinary terminus-excitement which had suddenly
caused so many virtuous ladies to elope from their red shawls—in short, to be all of a sudden
not only in ‘a bustle’ behind, but all over—had equally affected men of all sorts and conditions.

“One gentleman had left behind him a pair of leather hunting breeches! another his boot-jacks!
A soldier of the 22nd regiment had left his knapsack containing his kit.  Another soldier of
the 10th, poor fellow, had left his scarlet regimental coat!  Some cripple, probably overjoyed
at the sight of his family, had left behind him his crutches!!  But what astonished us above
all was, that some honest Scotchman, probably in the ecstasy of suddenly seeing among the crowd
the face of his faithful Jeanie, had actually left behind him the best portion of his bagpipes!!!

“Some little time ago the superintendent, on breaking open, previous to a general sale, a locked
leather hat-box, which had lain in this dungeon two years, found in it, under the hat, £65
in Bank of England notes, with one or two private letters, which enabled him to restore the
money to the owner, who, it turned out, had been so positive that had left his hat-box at an
hotel at Birmingham that he made no inquiry for it at the railway office.”

VERY NICE TO BE A RAILWAY ENGINEER.

A lady in conversation with a railway engineer observed, “It must be very nice to be a railway
engineer, and be able to travel about anywhere you want to go to for nothing.”

“Yes, madam,” was the reply, “It would, as you say, be very nice to travel about for nothing,
if we were not paid for it.  But you see,” he remarked, “railway engineers are like the cabman’s
horse.  The cabman has a very thin horse.  ‘Doesn’t your horse have enough to eat?’ inquired
a benevolent lady passenger.  ‘Oh yes, ma’am,’ replied cabby, ‘I give him lots o’ victuals
to eat, only, you see, he hasn’t any time to eat ’em.’ So it is with the railway engineer;
he has lots of pleasure of all kinds, only he has not any time to take it.”

AN ACCOMMODATING CONTRACTOR.

One railway of some scores of miles hung fire; the directors were congested with their fears
of exceeding the estimates, and so a shrewd man of business, a contractor, i.e., a man with
a mind contracted to profit and a keen eye to discern the paths of profit, called on them.
This man had made his way upward, and passing through the process of sub-contracting, had obtained
a glimpse of the upper glories.  And thus he relieved the directors from their difficulties,
by proffering to make the railway complete in all its parts, buy the land at the commencement,
and, if required, to engage the station-clerks at the conclusion, with all the staff complete,
so that his patrons might have no trouble, but begin business off-hand.  But the latter condition—the
staff and clerks—being simply a matter of patronage, the directors kept that trouble in their
own hands.

Our contractor loomed on the directors’ minds as a guardian angel, a guarantee against responsibilities,
backed by sufficient sureties, so the matter was without delay handed over to him, and he knew
what to do with it.

                                       —Roads and Rails, by W. B. Adams.

THE TWO DUKES AND THE TRAVELLER.

The following amusing anecdote is related of a commercial traveller who happened to get into
the same railway carriage in which the Dukes of Argyle and Northumberland were travelling.
The three chatted familiarly until the train stopped at Alnwick Junction, where the Duke of
Northumberland got out, and was met by a train of flunkeys and servants. “That must be a great
swell,” said the “commercial,” to his remaining companion.  “Yes,” responded the Duke of Argyle,
“he is the Duke of Northumberland.”  “Bless my soul!” exclaimed the “commercial.”  “And to
think that he should have been so condescending to two little snobs like us!”

THE GREAT RAILWAY MANIA DAY.

Never had there occurred, in the history of joint-stock enterprise, such another day as the
30th of November, 1845.  It was the day on which a madness for speculation arrived at its height,
to be followed by a collapse terrible to many thousand families.  Railways had been gradually
becoming successful, and the old companies had, in many cases, bought off, on very high terms,
rival lines which threatened to interfere with their profits.  Both of these circumstances
tended to encourage the concoction of new schemes.  There is always floating capital in England
waiting for profitable employment; there are always professional men looking out for employment
in great engineering works; and there are always scheming moneyless men ready to trade on the
folly of others. Thus the bankers and capitalists were willing to supply the capital; the engineers,
surveyors, architects, contractors, builders, solicitors, barristers, and Parliamentary agents
were willing to supply the brains and fingers; while, too often, cunning schemers pulled the
strings.  This was especially the case in 1845, when plans for new railways were brought forward
literally by hundreds, and with a recklessness perfectly marvellous.

By an enactment in force at that time, it was necessary, for the prosecution of any railway
scheme in Parliament, that a mass of documents should be deposited with the Board of Trade,
on or before the 30th of November in the preceding year.  The multitude of these schemes in
1845 was so great that there could not be found surveyors enough to prepare the plans and sections
in time.  Advertisements were inserted in the newspapers offering enormous pay for even a smattering
of this kind of skill.  Surveyors and architects from abroad were attracted to England; young
men at home were tempted to break the articles into which they had entered with their masters;
and others were seduced from various professions into that of railway engineers.  Sixty persons
in the employment of the Ordnance Department left their situations to gain enormous earnings
in this way.  There were desperate fights in various parts of England between property-owners
who were determined that their land should not be entered upon for the purpose of railway surveying,
and surveyors who knew that the schemes of their companies would be frustrated unless the surveys
were made and the plans deposited by the 30th of November.  To attain this end, force, fraud,
and bribery were freely made use of.  The 30th of November, 1845, fell on a Sunday; but it
was no Sunday at the office near the Board of Trade.  Vehicles were driving up during the whole
of the day, with agents and clerks bringing plans and sections.  In country districts, as the
day approached, and on the morning of the day, coaches-and-four were in greater request than
even at race-time, galloping at full speed to the nearest railway station.  On the Great Western
Railway an express train was hired by the agents of one new scheme.  The engine broke down;
the train came to a stand-still at Maidenhead, and, in this state, was run into by another
express train hired by the agents of a rival project; the opposite parties barely escaped with
their lives, but contrived to reach London at the last moment.  On this eventful Sunday there
were no fewer than ten of these express trains on the Great Western Railway, and eighteen on
the Eastern Counties!  One railway company was unable to deposit its papers because another
company surreptitiously bought, for a high sum, twenty of the necessary sheets from the lithographic
printer, and horses were killed in madly running about in search of the missing documents before
the fraud was discovered.  In some cases the lithographic stones were stolen; and in one instance
the printer was bribed, by a large sum, not to finish in proper time the plans for a rival
line.  One eminent house brought over four hundred lithographic printers from Belgium, and
even then, and with these, all the work ordered could not be executed.  Some of the plans were
only two-thirds lithographed, the rest being filled up by hand.  However executed, the problem
was to get these documents to Whitehall before midnight on the 30th of November.  Two guineas
a mile were in one instance paid for post-horses.  One express train steamed up to London 118
miles in an hour-and-a-half, nearly 80 miles an hour.  An established company having refused
an express train to the promoters of a rival scheme, the latter employed persons to get up
a mock funeral cortege, and engage an express train to convey it to London; they did so, and
the plans and sections came in the hearse, with solicitors and surveyors as mourners!

Copies of many of the documents had to be deposited with the clerks of the peace of the counties
to which the schemes severally related, as well as with the Board of Trade; and at some of
the offices of these clerks, strange scenes occurred on the Sunday.  At Preston, the doors
of the office were not opened, as the officials considered the orders which had been issued
to keep open on that particular Sunday, to apply only to the Board of Trade; but a crowd of
law agents and surveyors assembled, broke the windows, and threw their plans and sections into
the office.  At the Board of Trade, extra clerks were employed on that day, and all went pretty
smoothly until nine o’clock in the evening.  A rule was laid down for receiving the plans and
sections, hearing a few words of explanation from the agents, and making certain entries in
books.  But at length the work accumulated more rapidly than the clerks could attend to it,
and the agents arrived in greater number than the entrance hall could hold.  The anxiety was
somewhat allayed by an announcement, that whoever was inside the building before the clock
struck twelve should be deemed in good time.  Many of the agents bore the familiar name of
Smith; and when ‘Mr. Smith’ was summoned by the messenger to enter and speak concerning some
scheme, the name of which was not announced, in rushed several persons, of whom, of course,
only one could be the right Mr. Smith at that particular moment.  One agent arrived while the
clock was striking twelve, and was admitted.  Soon afterwards, a carriage with reeking horses
drove up; three agents rushed out, and finding the door closed, rang furiously at the bell;
no sooner did a policeman open the door to say that the time was past, than the agents threw
their bundles of plans and sections through the half-opened door into the hall; but this was
not permitted, and the policeman threw the documents out into the street. The baffled agents
were nearly maddened with vexation; for they had arrived in London from Harwich in good time,
and had been driven about Pimlico hither and thither, by a post-boy who did not, or would not,
know the way to the office of the Board of Trade.

The Times newspaper, in the same month, devoted three whole pages to an elaborate analysis,
by Mr. Spackman, of the various railway schemes brought forward in 1845.  “There were no less
than 620 in number, involving an (hypothetical) expenditure of 560 millions sterling; besides
643 other schemes which had not gone further than issuing prospectuses.

                                               —Chambers’s Book of Days.

PARODY UPON THE RAILWAY MANIA.

About the time of the bursting of the railway bubble, or the collapse of the mania of 1844–5,
the following clever lines appeared:—

    “There was a sound of revelry by night.”—Childe Harold.

A gentleman went to Liverpool in the morning, purchased, and took back with him to Manchester,
150 tons of cotton, which he sold, and afterwards obtained an order for a similar quantity.
He went again, and actually, that same evening, delivered the second quantity in Manchester,
“having travelled 120 miles in four separate journeys, and bought, sold, and delivered, 30
miles off, at two distinct deliveries, 300 tons of goods, in about 12 hours.”  The occurrence
is perfectly astounding; and, had it been hinted at fifty years ago, would have been deemed
impossible.

                                                —Railway Magazine, 1840.

RAILWAYS AND THE POST-OFFICE.

It might naturally be thought that the new and quicker means of transport afforded by the railway
would be eagerly utilised by the Post-office. There were, however, difficulties on both sides.
The railway companies objected to running trains during the night, and the old stage-coach
offered the advantage of greater regularity.  The railway was quicker, but was at least occasionally
uncertain.  Thus, in November, 1837, the four daily mail trains between Liverpool and Birmingham
on ten occasions arrived before the specified time, on eight occasions were exact to time,
and on 102 occasions varied in lateness of arrival from five minutes to five hours and five
minutes.  There were all sorts of mishaps and long delays by train.  The mail guard, like the
passenger guard, rode outside the train with a box before him called an “imperial,” which contained
the letters and papers entrusted to his charge.  In very stormy weather the mail guard would
prop up the lid of his imperial and get inside for shelter.  On one occasion when the mail
arrived at Liverpool the guard was found imprisoned in his letter-box.  The lid had fallen
and fastened in the male travesty of “Ginevra.”  Fortunately for him it was a burlesque and
not a tragedy.  Bags thrown to the guards at wayside stations not unfrequently got under the
wheels of the train and the contents were cut to pieces.  On one occasion, on the Grand Junction,
an engine failed through the fire-bars coming out.  The mails were removed from the train and
run on a platelayer’s “trolly,” but unfortunately the contents of the bags took fire and were
destroyed.  But many of these mishaps were obviated by the invention of Mr. Nathaniel Worsdell,
a Liverpool coachbuilder, in the service of the railway, who took out a patent in 1838 for
an appliance for picking up and dropping mail bags while the train was at full speed.  This
is still used.  The loads of railway vehicles, it may be mentioned, were limited by law to
four tons until the passage of the 5 and 6 Vic., c. 55.  In 1837, when the weight of the mails
passing daily on the London and Birmingham line was only about 14cwt., the late Sir Hardman
Earle suggested that a special compartment should be reserved for the mail guard in which he
could sort the letters en route.  The first vehicle specially set apart for mail purposes was
put upon the Grand Junction in 1838.  From this humble beginning has gradually developed the
express mails, in which the chief consideration is the swift transit of correspondence, and
which are therefore limited in the number of the passengers they are allowed to carry.  The
cost of carrying the mails in 1838 and 1839 between Manchester and Liverpool by rail, including
the guard’s fare, averaged about £1 a trip, or half of the cost of sending them by coach. 
The price paid to the Grand Junction for carriage of mails between Manchester and Liverpool
and Birmingham was 1d. a mile for the guard and ¾d. per cwt. per mile for the mails.  This
brought a revenue of about £3,000 a year. When the Chancellor of the Exchequer proposed and
carried the imposition of the passenger duty, in 1832, the company intimated to the Post-office
that they should advance the mail guard’s fare ½d. per mile.  In 1840 an agreement was negotiated
between the Post-office and railway authorities to convey the mails between Lancashire and
Birmingham four times daily for £19 10s. a day, with a penalty of £500 on the railway company
in case of bad time keeping.  This agreement was not carried into effect.

                                                   —Manchester Guardian.

RAILWAY SIGNALS.

The history of railway signals is a curious page in the annals of practical science.  For some
years signals seem scarcely to have been dreamt of.  Holding up a hat or an umbrella was at
first sufficient to stop a train at an intermediate station.  At level crossings the gates
had to stand closed across the line of rails, and on the top bar hung a lamp to indicate to
drivers that the way was blocked.  In 1839, Colonel Landman, of the Croydon line, said that
he should avoid the danger at a junction during a fog by going slowly, tolling a bell, beating
a drum, or sounding a whistle.  The first junction signal was denominated a lighthouse.  The
difficulties attending junctions may be judged of by the fact that when the Bolton and Preston
line was ready for opening it was agreed that no train should attempt to enter or leave the
North Union line at Euxton junction within fifteen minutes of a train being due on the main
line which might interfere with it.  The movable rails at junctions had to be removed by hand
and fixed into position by hammer and pin.  Mr. Watts, engineer to the Lancashire and Yorkshire
Railway, is believed to have been one of the first to use the tapering movable switch.  One
of Mr. Watts’s men invented the back weight, another designed the crank, while a third suggested
the long rod.  These improvements were all about the year 1846.  The first fixed signal set
up at stations was an ordinary round flag pole having a pulley on the top, upon which was hoisted
a green flag to stop a train and a red one to indicate danger on the road.  The night signal
was a hand lamp hoisted in the same way.  These were superseded by a signal on which an arm
was worked at the end of a rod, and a square lamp with two sides, red and white, having blinkers
working on hinges to shut out the light.  These were used until 1848.  The semaphores only
came into practical use some 20 years ago, and it is remarkable that the first time they were
used on the Liverpool and Manchester line they were the cause of a slight collision.  The use
of signal lights on trains was much advanced by two accidents which occurred on the North Union
line on the 7th September, 1841.  One of these happened at Farrington, where two passenger
trains came into collision.  The other happened at Euxton, where a coal train ran into a stage
coach which was taking passengers to Southport.  The Rev. Mr. Joy was killed, and several others,
including the station master, who lost one leg, were injured.  These were the first serious
accidents investigated by the now Government Inspector of Railways, Sir Frederic Smith, who
was appointed by the Board of Trade under Lord Seymour’s Act.

                                                   —Manchester Guardian.

FOG-SIGNALS.

During the prevalence of fogs, when neither signal-posts nor lights are of any use, detonating
signals are frequently employed, which are affixed to the rails, and exploded by the iron tread
of the advancing locomotive. All guards, policemen, and pointsmen who are not appointed to
stations, and all enginemen, gatemen, gangers and platelayers, and tunnel-men, are provided
with packets of these signals, which they are required always to have ready for use whilst
on duty; and every engine, on passing over one of these signals, is to be immediately stopped,
and the guards are to protect their train by sending back and placing a similar signal on the
line behind them every two hundred yards, to the distance of six hundred yards; the train may
then proceed slowly to the place of obstruction. When these detonating signals were first invented,
it was resolved to ascertain whether they acted efficiently, and especially whether the noise
they produced was sufficient to be distinctly heard by the engine driver.  One of them was
accordingly fixed to the rails on a particular line by the authority of the company, and in
due time the train having passed over it, reached its destination.  Here the engine driver
and his colleague were found to be in a state of great alarm, in consequence of a supposed
attack being made on them by an assassin, who, they said, lay down beside the line of rails
on which they had passed, and deliberately fired at them.  The efficiency of the means having
thus been tested, the apprehensions of the enginemen were removed, though there was at first
evident mortification manifested that they had been made the subjects of such a successful
experiment.

                                       —F. S. Williams’s Our Iron Roads.

“ALMOST DAR NOW.”

The following anecdote, illustrative of railroad facility, is very pointed.  A traveller inquired
of a negro the distance to a certain point.  “Dat ’pends on circumstances,” replied darkey.
“If you gwine afoot, it’ll take you about a day; if you gwine in de stage or homneybus, you
make it half a day; but if you get in one of dese smoke wagons, you be almost dar now.”

WORDSWORTH’S PROTEST.

The Hon. Edward Everett in the course of his speech at the Boston Railroad Jubilee in commemoration
of the opening of railroad communication between Boston and Canada, observed, “But, sir, as
I have already said, it is not the material results of this railroad system in which its happiest
influences are seen.  I recollect that seven or eight years ago there was a project to carry
a railroad into the lake country in England—into the heart of Westmoreland and Cumberland.
Mr. Wordsworth, the lately deceased poet, a resident in the centre of this region, opposed
the project.  He thought that the retirement and seclusion of this delightful region would
be disturbed by the panting of the locomotive and the cry of the steam whistle.  If I am not
mistaken, he published one or two sonnets in deprecation of the enterprise.  Mr. Wordsworth
was a kind-hearted man, as well as a most distinguished poet, but he was entirely mistaken,
as it seems to me, in this matter.  The quiet of a few spots may be disturbed, but a hundred
quiet spots are rendered accessible.  The bustle of the station-house may take the place of
the Druidical silence of some shady dell; but, Gracious Heavens, sir, how many of those verdant
cathedral arches, entwined by the hand of God in our pathless woods, are opened to the grateful
worship of man by these means of communication?

“How little of rural beauty you lose, even in a country of comparatively narrow dimensions
like England—how less than little in a country so vast as this—by works of this description.
You throw it open, with all its soothing and humanizing influences, to thousands who, but for
your railways and steamers, would have lived and died without ever having breathed the life-giving
air of the mountains; yes, sir, to tens of thousands who would have gone to their graves, and
the sooner for the prevention, without ever having caught a glimpse of the most magnificent
and beautiful spectacle which nature presents to the eye of man, that of a glorious curving
wave, a quarter-of-a-mile long, as it comes swelling and breasting toward the shore, till its
soft green ridge bursts into a crest of snow, and settles and digs along the whispering sands.”

REMARKABLE ADVERTISEMENT.

The most astonishing kind of property to leave behind at a railway station is mentioned in
an advertisement which appeared in the newspapers dated Swindon, April 27th, 1844.  It gave
notice “That a pair of bright bay horses, about sixteen hands high, with black switch tails
and manes,” had been left in the name of Hibbert; and notice was given that unless the horses
were claimed on or before the 12th day of May, they would be sold to pay expenses.  Accordingly
on that day they were sold.

                                                       —Household Words.

RAILWAY EPIGRAM.

In 1845, during the discussions on the Midland lines before the Committee of the House of Commons,
Mr. Hill, the Counsel, was addressing the Committee, when Sir John Rae Reid, who was a member
of it, handed the following lines to the chairman:—

    “Ye railway men, who mountains lower,
    Who level locks and valleys fill;
    Who thro’ the hills vast tunnels bore;
    Must now in turn be bored by Hill.”

SINGULAR CIRCUMSTANCE.

A certain gentleman of large property, and who had figured, if he does not now figure, as a
Railway Director, applied for shares in a certain projected railway.  Fifty, it seems were
allotted to him.  Whether that was the number he applied for or not, deponent saith not; but
by some means nothing (0) got added to the 50 and made it 500.  The deposit for the said 500
was paid into the bankers’, the scrip obtained, and before the mistake could be detected and
corrected—for no doubt it was only a mistake, or at most a lapsus pennæ—the shares were sold,
and some £2000 profit by this very fortunate accident found its way into the pocket of the
gentleman.

                                              —Herepath’s Journal, 1845.

LOUIS PHILIPPE AND THE ENGLISH NAVVIES.

Whittlesea Will, William Elthorpe, from Cambridgeshire, had a large railway experience; during
the construction of Longton Tunnel, he told me the following story:—“Ye see, Mr. Smith (Samuel
Smith, of Woodberry Down), I was a ganger for Mr. Price on the Marseilles and Avignon Line
in France, and I’d gangs of all nations to deal with.  Well, I could not manage ’em nohow mixed—there
were the Jarman Gang, the French Gang, the English, Scotch, and Irish Gangs, of course; the
Belgic Gang, the Spanish Gang, and the Peamounter Gang—that’s a Gang, d’ye see, that comes
off the mountains somewhere towards Italy.”  “Oh, the Piedmontese, you mean.” “Well, you may
call ’em Peedmanteeze if you like, but we call’d ’em Peamounters—and so at last I hit on the
plan of putting each gang by itself; gangs o’ nations, the Peamounter gang here, the Jarman
gang there, and the Belgic gang there, and so on, and it worked capital, each gang worked against
the other gang like good ’uns.

“Well one day our master, Mr. Price, gave the English gang a great entertainment at a sort
of Tea Garden place, near Paris, called Maison Lafitte, and we were coming home along the road
before dark—it was a summer’s evening—singing and shouting pretty loud, I dare say, when a
fat, oldish gentleman rode into the midst of us and pulling up said, taking off his hat—‘I
think you are English Navigators.’  ‘Well, and what if we are, old fellow, what’s that to you?’
‘Why, you are making a very great noise, and I noticed you did not make way for me, or salute
me as we met, which is not polite—every one in France salutes a gentleman. I’ve been in England,
I like the English,’ by this time his military attendants rode up, and seeing him alone in
the midst of us were going to ride us down at once but the old boy beckoned with his hand for
them to hold back, and continued his sarmont.  ‘I should wish you,’ says he, quite pleasant,
‘whilst you remain in France to be orderly, obliging, civil, and polite; it’s always the best—now
remember this: and here’s something for you to remember Louis Philippe by;’ putting his hand
into his pocket, he pulled out what silver he had, I suppose, threw it among us, and rode off—but,
my eyes, didn’t we give him a cheer!”

ADVANTAGES OF RAILWAY-TUNNELS.

We cannot help repeating a narrative which we heard on one occasion, told with infinite gravity
by a clergyman whose name we at once inquired about, and of whom we shall only say, that he
is one of the worthiest and best sons of the kirk, and knows when to be serious as well as
when to jest.  “Don’t tell me,” said he to a simple-looking Highland brother, who had apparently
made his first trial of railway travelling in coming up to the Assembly—“don’t tell me that
tunnels on railways are an unmitigated evil: they serve high moral and æsthetical purposes.
Only the other day I got into a railway carriage, and I had hardly taken my seat, when the
train started.  On looking up, I saw sitting opposite to me two of the most rabid dissenters
in Scotland.  I felt at once that there could be no pleasure for me in that journey, and with
gloomy heart and countenance I leaned back in my corner.  But all at once we plunged into a
deep tunnel, black as night, and when we emerged at the other end, my brow was clear and my
ill-humour was entirely dissipated.  Shall I tell you how this came to be?  All the way through
the tunnel I was shaking my fists in the dissenters’ faces, and making horrible mouths at them,
and that relieved me, and set me all right.  Don’t speak against tunnels again, my dear friend.”

                                                     —Fraser’s Magazine.

DAMAGES EASILY ADJUSTED.

It is related that the President of the Fitchburg Railroad, some thirty years ago, settled
with a number of passengers who had been wet but not seriously injured by the running off of
a train into the river, by paying them from $5 to $20 each.  One of them, a sailor, when his
terms were asked, said:—“Well, you see, mister, when I was down in the water, I looked up to
the bridge and calculated that we had fallen fifteen feet, so if you will pay me a dollar a
foot I will call it square.”

LIABILITIES OF RAILWAY ENGINEERS FOR THEIR ERRORS.

An action was tried before Mr. Justice Maule, July 30, 1846—the first case of the kind—which
established the liability of railway engineers for the consequences of any errors they commit.

The action was brought by the Dudley and Madeley Company against Mr. Giles, the engineer. 
They had paid him £4,000 for the preparation of the plans, etc., but when the time arrived
for depositing them with the Board of Trade they were not completely ready.  The scheme had
consequently failed.  This conduct of the defendant it was estimated had injured the company
to the extent of £40,000.  The counsel for the plaintiff did not claim damages to this amount,
but would be content with such a sum as the jury should, under the circumstances, think the
defendant ought to pay, as a penalty for the negligence of which he had been guilty.  For Mr.
Giles, it was contended, that the jury ought not, at the worst, to find a verdict for more
than £1,700, alleging that the remainder £2,300 had been paid by him in wages for work done,
and materials used.

The jury, however, returned a verdict to the tune of £4,500, or £500 beyond the full sum paid him.

But, what said the judge?  That “it was clear that the defendant had undertaken more work than
he could complete, and that he should not be allowed to gratify with impunity, and to the injury
of the plaintiffs, his desire to realise in a few months a fortune which should only be the
result of the labour of years.”

EXTRAORDINARY ACCIDENT.

Yesterday afternoon, as the Leeds train, which left that terminus at a quarter-past one o’clock,
was approaching Rugby, and within four miles of that station, an umbrella behind the private
carriage of Earl Zetland took fire, in consequence of a spark from the engine falling on it,
and presently the imperial on the roof and the upper part of the carriage were in a blaze.
Seated within it were the Countess of Zetland and her maid.  The train was proceeding at the
rate of forty miles an hour. Under these circumstances, Her Ladyship and maid descended from
the carriage to the truck, when—despite the caution to hold on given by a gentleman from a
window of one of the railway carriages—the maid threw herself headlong on the rail, and was
speedily lost sight of.  On the arrival of the train at Rugby an engine was despatched along
the line, when the young woman was found severely injured, and taken to the Infirmary at Leicester.
Lady Zetland remained at Rugby, where she was joined by His Lordship and the family physician
last night, by an express train from Euston-square.  How long will railway companies delay
establishing a means of communication between passengers and the guard?

                                                 —Times, Dec. 9th, 1847.

PROVIDENTIAL ESCAPE.

On Monday, at the New Bailey, two men, named William Hatfield and Mark Clegg, the former an
engine-driver and the latter a fireman in the employ of the London and North-Western Railway,
were brought up before Mr. Trafford, the stipendiary magistrate, and Captain Whittaker, charged
with drunkenness and gross negligence in the discharge of their duty.  Mr. Wagstaff, solicitor,
of Warrington, appeared on behalf of the Company, and from his statement and the evidence of
the witnesses it appeared that the prisoners had charge of the night mail train from Liverpool
to London, on Saturday, December 25, 1847.  The number of carriages and passengers was not
stated, but the pointsman at the Warrington junction being at his post, waiting for the train,
was surprised to hear it coming at a very rapid rate.  He had been preparing to turn the points
in order to shunt the train on to the Warrington junction, but as the train did not diminish
in speed, but rather increased as it approached, he, anticipating great danger if he should
turn the points, determined on the instant upon letting the train take its course, and not
turning them. Most fortunate was it that he exercised so much judgment and sagacity, for, in
consequence of the acuteness of the curve at Warrington junction and the tremendous rate at
which the train was proceeding—not less than forty miles an hour—it does not appear that anything
could have otherwise prevented the train from being overturned, and a frightful sacrifice of
human life ensuing.  Meantime the train continued its frightful progress; but the mail guard
seated at the end of the train, perceiving that it was going on towards Manchester, instead
of staying at the junction, signalled to the engine-driver and fireman, but without effect,
no notice whatever being taken of the signal.  Finding this to be the case, he, at very considerable
risk, passed over from carriage to carriage till he reached the engine, where he found both
the prisoners lying drunk.  At length, at Patricroft, however, he succeeded in stopping the
train just before it reached that station, a distance of 14 miles from Warrington. This again
appears to be almost a miraculous circumstance, for at the Patricroft station, on the same
line as that on which the mail train was running was another train, containing a number of
passengers, who thus escaped from the consequences of a dreadful collision.  The prisoners
were, of course, immediately given into custody, and convoyed to the New Bailey prison, while,
other assistance being obtained, the train was taken back again to Warrington junction.  The
regulation is in consequence of the sharp curve at this junction, that the trains shall not
run more than five miles an hour.  The bench sentenced both prisoners to two months hard labour.

                                                   —Manchester Examiner.

HIS PORTMANTEAU.

An English traveller in Germany entered a first-class carriage in which there was only one
seat vacant, a middle one.  A corner seat was occupied by a German, who evidently had placed
his portmanteau on the opposite one—at least the traveller suspected that this was the case.
The latter asked, “Is this seat engaged?”  “Yes,” was the reply.  When the time for the departure
of the train had almost arrived, the Englishman said, “Your friend is going to miss the train,
if he is not quick.”  “Oh, that is all right.  I’ll keep it for him.”  Soon the signal came
and the train started, when the passenger seized the portmanteau, and threw it out of the window,
exclaiming, “He’s missed his train but he mustn’t lose his baggage!”  That portmanteau was
the German’s.

GROWTH OF STATION BOOKSHOPS.

The gradual rise of the railway book-trade is a singular feature of our marvellous railway
era.  In the first instance, when the scope and capabilities of the rail had yet to be ascertained,
the privilege of selling books, newspapers, etc., at the several stations was freely granted
to any who might think proper to claim it.  Vendors came and went, when and how they chose,
their trade was of the humblest, and their profits were as varying as their punctuality.  By
degrees the business assumed shape, the newspaper man found it his interest to maintain a locus
standi in the establishment, and the establishment, in its turn, discerned a substantial means
of helping the poor or the deserving among its servants.  A cripple maimed in the company’s
service, or a married servant of a director or secretary, superseded the first batch of stragglers
and assumed responsibility by express appointment.  The responsibility, in truth, was not very
great at starting.  Railway travelling, at the time referred to, occupied but a very small
portion of a man’s time.  The longest line reached only thirty miles, and no traveller required
anything more solid than his newspaper for his hour’s steaming.  But as the iron lengthened,
and as cities remote from each other were brought closer, the time spent in the railway carriage
extended, travellers multiplied, and the newspaper ceased to be sufficient for the journey.
At this period reading matter for the rail sensibly increased; the tide of cheap literature
set in.  French novels, unfortunately, of questionable character were introduced by the newsman,
simply because he could buy them at one-third less than any other publication selling at the
same price.  The public purchased the wares they saw before them, and very soon the ingenious
caterers for railway readers flattered themselves that there was a general demand amongst all
classes for the peculiar style of literature upon which it had been their good fortune to hit.
The more eminent booksellers and publishers stood aloof, whilst others, less scrupulous, finding
a market open and ready-made to their hands were only too eager to supply it.  It was then
that the Parlour Library was set on foot.  Immense numbers of this work were sold to travellers,
and every addition to the stock was positively made on the assumption that persons of the better
class, who constitute the larger portion of railway readers, lose their accustomed taste the
moment they smell the engine and present themselves to the railway librarian.

                   —Preface to a Reprinted Article from the Times, 1851.

MESSRS. SMITHS’ BOOKSTALLS.

The following appeared in the Athenæum, 27th Jan., 1849.  “The new business in bookselling
which the farming of the line of the North-Western Railway by Mr. Smith, of the Strand, is
likely to open up, engages a good deal of attention in literary circles.  This new shop for
books will, it is thought, seriously injure many of the country booksellers, and remove at
the same time a portion of the business transacted by London tradesmen.  For instance, a country
gentleman wishing to purchase a new book will give his order, not as heretofore, to the Lintot
or Tonson of his particular district, but to the agent of the bookseller on the line of railway—the
party most directly in his way. Instead of waiting, as he was accustomed to do, till the bookseller
of his village or of the nearest town, can get his usual monthly parcel down from his agent
‘in the Row’—he will find his book at the locomotive library, and so be enabled to read the
last new novel before it is a little flat or the last new history in the same edition as the
resident in London.  A London gentleman hurrying from town with little time to spare will buy
the book he wants at the railway station where he takes his ticket—or perhaps at the next,
or third, or fourth, or at the last station (just as the fancy takes him) on his journey. 
It is quite possible to conceive such a final extension of this principle that the retail trade
in books may end in a great monopoly:—nay, instead of seeing the imprimatur of the Row or of
Albermarle Street upon a book, the great recommendation hereafter may be ‘Euston Square,’ ‘Paddington,’
‘The Nine Elms,’ or even ‘Shoreditch.’  Whatever may be the effect to the present race of booksellers
of this change in their business—it is probable that this new mart for books will raise the
profits of authors. How many hours are wasted at railway stations by people well to do in the
world, with a taste for books but no time to read advertisements or to drop in at a bookseller’s
to see what is new.  Already it is found that the sale at these places is not confined to cheap
or even ephemeral publications;—that it is not the novel or light work alone that is asked
for and bought.

“The prophecy of progress contained in the above paragraph has been fulfilled so far as the
North-Western and Mr. Smith are concerned.  His example, however, was not infectious for other
lines; and till within the last three months, when the Great Northern copied the good precedent,
and entered into a contract with Mr. Smith and his son, the greenest literature in dress and
in digestion was all that was offered to the wants of travellers by the directors of the South-Western,
the Great Western, and other trunk and branch lines with which England is intersected.  A traveller
in the eastern, western, and southern counties who does not bring his book with him can satisfy
his love of reading only by the commonest and cheapest trash—for the pretences to the appearance
of a bookseller’s shop made at Waterloo, at Shoreditch, at Paddington, and at London Bridge,
are something ridiculous.  This should not be.  It shows little for the public spirit of the
directors of our railways that such a system should remain.  Mr. Smith has, we believe, as
many as thirty-five shops at railway stations, extending from London to Liverpool, Chester
and Edinburgh.  His great stations are at Euston Square, Birmingham, Manchester, Liverpool
and Edinburgh.  He has a rolling stock of books valued at £10,000.  We call his stock rolling,
because he moves his wares with the inclinations of his readers.  If he finds a religious feeling
on the rise at Bangor, he withdraws Dickens and sends down Henry of Exeter or Mr. Bennett;
if a love for lighter reading is on the increase at Rugby, he withdraws Hallam and sends down
Thackeray and Jerrold.  He never undersells and he gives no credit.  His business is a ready-money
one, and he finds it his interest to maintain the dignity of literature by resolutely refusing
to admit pernicious publications among his stock.  He can well afford to pay the heavy fee
he does for his privilege; for his novel speculation has been a decided hit—of solid advantage
to himself and of permanent utility to the public.”

                                               —Athanæum, Sept. 5, 1851.

A RESIDENT ENGINEER AND SCIENTIFIC WITNESS.

Shortly after the first locomotives were placed on the London and Birmingham Railway, a scientific
civilian, who had given very positive evidence before Parliament as to the injury to health
and other intolerable evils that must arise from the construction of tunnels, paid a visit
to the line.  The resident engineer accompanied him in a first-class carriage over the newly-finished
portion of the works.  As they drew near Chalk Farm the engineer attracted the attention of
his visitor to the lamp at the top of the carriage.  “I should like to have your opinion on
this,” he said.  “The matter seems simple, but it requires a deal of thought.  You see it is
essential to keep the oil from dropping on the passengers.  The cup shape effectually prevents
this. Then the lamps would not burn.  We had to arrange an up-cast and down-cast chimney, in
order to ensure the circulation of air in the lamp. Then there was the question of shadow;”—and
so he continued, to the great edification of his listener, for five or six minutes.  When a
satisfactory conclusion as to the lamp had been arrived at, the learned man looked out of the
window.  “What place is this?” said he.  “Kensal Green.”  “But,” said the other, “how is that?
I thought there was one of your great tunnels to pass before we came to Kensal Green.”  “Oh,”
replied the Resident, carelessly, “did you not observe?  We came through Chalk Farm Tunnel
very steadily.”  The man of science felt himself caught.  He made no more reports upon tunnels.

                           —Personal Recollections of English Engineers.

EXTRAORDINARY SCENE AT A RAILWAY JUNCTION.

A most extraordinary and unprecedented scene occurred on Monday morning at the Clifton station,
about five miles from Manchester, where the East Lancashire line forms a junction with the
Lancashire and Yorkshire.  The East Lancashire are in the habit of running up-trains to Manchester,
past the Clifton junction, without stopping, afterwards making a declaration to the Lancashire
and Yorkshire Company of the number of passengers the trains contain, and for whom they will
have to pay toll.  The Lancashire and Yorkshire Company object to this plan, and demand that
the trains shall stop at Clifton, so that the number of passengers can be counted, and give
up their tickets.  The East Lancashire Company say that in addition to their declaration, the
other parties have access to all their books, and to the returns of their (the East Lancashire
Company’s) servants; and that the demand to take tickets, or to count, is only one of annoyance
and detention, adopted since the two companies have become competitors for the traffic to Bradford.
Towards the close of last week, the dispute assumed a serious aspect, by one of the Lancashire
and Yorkshire Company’s agents at Manchester (Mr. Blackmore) threatening that he would blockade
or stop up the East Lancashire line, at the point of junction, with a large balk of timber.
The East Lancashire Company got out a summons against Mr. Blackmore on Saturday; but, notwithstanding
this, the Lancashire and Yorkshire Company’s manager proceeded on Monday to carry the threat
into execution, despite the presence of a large body of the county police.  The East Lancashire
early trains were allowed to pass upon the Lancashire and Yorkshire line without obstruction;
but at half-past 10 o’clock in the morning, as the next East Lancashire train to Manchester
was one which would not stop at Clifton, but attempt to pass on to Manchester, a number of
labourers, under the direction of Captain Laws, laid a large balk of timber, secured by two
long iron crowbars, across the down rails to Manchester of the Lancashire and Yorkshire line,
behind which was brought up a train of six empty carriages, with its engine at the Manchester
end.  When the East Lancashire train came in sight, it was signalled to stop, and the Lancashire
and Yorkshire Company’s servants went and demanded the tickets from the passengers. This demand,
however, was fruitless, inasmuch as the East Lancashire parties had taken the tickets from
the passengers at the previous station—Ringley.  The first act of the East Lancashire Company’s
servants was to remove the balk of timber, and this they did without hindrance. They next attempted
to force before them the Lancashire and Yorkshire blockading train.  This they were not able
to do.  The East Lancashire Company then brought up a heavy train laden with stone, and took
up a position on the top line to Manchester.  Thus the Lancashire and Yorkshire Company’s double
line of rails was completely blocked up—one line by their own train, and the other by the stone
train of the East Lancashire Company.  In this position matters remained till near 12 o’clock.
There were altogether eight trains on the double lines of rails of the two companies, extending
more than half a mile.  After which the blockade was broken up, and the various trains were
allowed to pass onwards—fortunately without accident or injury to the passengers.

                                 —Manchester Examiner, March 13th, 1849.

GOODS’ COMPETITION.

Within the last fortnight, we understand, the London and North-Western, in conjunction with
the Lancashire and Yorkshire, have commenced carrying goods between Liverpool and Manchester,
a distance of 31 miles, at the ruinously low figure of 6d. per ton, where they used to have
8s.  We further hear that the 6d. includes the expenses of collection and delivery.  The cause
is a competition with the East Lancashire and the canal.  At a very low estimate it has been
calculated that every ton costs 6s. 3d., so that they are losing 5s. 9d. on every 6d. earned,
or 860 per cent.

How long this monstrous competition is to continue the directors only know, but the loss must
be frightful on both sides.  Chaplin and Horne had 10s. a ton for collecting and delivering
the goods at the London end of the London and North-Western Railway, and, though the expense
must be less in such comparatively small towns as Liverpool and Manchester, it can hardly be
less than a half that, 5s.  Therefore, allowing only 1s. 3d. for the bare railway carriage,
which is under a halfpenny a ton a mile, we have 6s. 3d., the estimate showing the above-mentioned
loss of 5s. 9d. on every 6d. earned.

                                  —Herepath’s Journal, Sept. 29th, 1849.

A POLITE REQUEST.

An amusing illustration of the formal politeness of a railway guard occurred some years ago
at the Reigate station.  He went to the window of a first class carriage, and said: “If you
please, sir, will you have the goodness to change your carriage here?”  “What for?” was the
gruff reply of Mr. Bull within.  “Because, sir, if you please, the wheel has been on fire since
half-way from the last station!”  John looked out; the wheel was sending forth a cloud of smoke,
and without waiting to require any further “persuasive influences,” he lost no time in condescending
to comply with the request.

A CHASE AFTER A RUNAWAY ENGINE.

Mr. Walker, the superintendent of the telegraphs of the South-Eastern Railway Company, remarks:—“On
New Year’s Day, 1850, a collision had occurred to an empty train at Gravesend, and the driver
having leaped from his engine, the latter darted alone at full speed for London. Notice was
immediately given by telegraph to London and other stations; and, while the line was kept clear,
an engine and other arrangements were prepared as a buttress to receive the runaway, while
all connected with the station awaited in awful suspense the expected shock.  The superintendent
of the railway also started down the line on an engine, and on passing the runaway he reversed
his engine and had it transferred at the next crossing to the up-line, so as to be in the rear
of the fugitive; he then started in chase, and on overtaking the other he ran into it at speed,
and the driver of the engine took possession of the fugitive, and all danger was at an end.
Twelve stations were passed in safety; it passed Woolwich at fifteen miles an hour; it was
within a couple of miles of London when it was arrested.  Had its approach been unknown, the
money value of the damage it would have caused might have equalled the cost of the whole line
of telegraph.”

STEAM DEFINED.

At a railway station, an old lady said to a very pompous looking gentleman, who was talking
about steam communication.  “Pray, sir, what is steam?”  “Steam, ma’am, is ah!—steam, is ah!
ah! steam is—steam!”  “I knew that chap couldn’t tell ye,” said a rough-looking fellow standing
by; “but steam is a bucket of water in a tremendous perspiration.”

IN A RAILWAY TUNNEL.

Mr. Osborne in the Sunday at Home, says, “I have heard from a friend a strange story of a tunnel,
which I will try to tell you as it was told to me.  A well-known engineer was walking one day
through a tunnel, a narrow one, and as he was going along, supposing himself safe, he thought
his ear caught the far-off rumble of a train in the tunnel.  After stopping and listening for
a moment, he became sure it was so, and that he was caught, and could not possibly get out
in time.  What was he to do? Should he draw himself up close to the side wall, making himself
as small as possible, that the train might not touch him.  Or should he lie down flat between
the rails and let the train pass over him.  Being an engineer, and knowing well the shape of
things, he decided to lie down between the rails as his best chance.  He had to make up his
mind quickly, for in a minute or so the whole train came to where he lay, and went thundering
over him, and—did him no harm whatever.  But he afterwards told his friends, that in that brief
moment of time, while the train was passing over, he saw his whole past life spread out like
a map, like an illuminated transparency, with every particular circumstance standing out plain.”

A QUICK WAY.

Some years ago, when a new railway was opened in the Highlands, a Highlander heard of it, and
bought a ticket for the first excursion.  The train was about half the distance to the next
station when a collision took place, and poor Donald was thrown unceremoniously into an adjacent
park.  After recovering his senses, he made the best of his way home, when the neighbours asked
him how he liked his ride.  “Oh,” replied Donald, “I liked it fine; but they have an awfu’
nasty quick way in puttin’ ane oot.”

HIGHLANDER AND A RAILWAY ENGINE.

We remember hearing a story of an old Highland peasant who happened to see a railway engine
for the first time.  He was coming down from the Grampians into Perthshire, and he thus described
the novel monster as it appeared in his astounded Celtic imagination:—“I was looking doon the
glens, when I saw a funny beast blowing off his perspiration; an’ I ran doon, an’ I tried to
stop him, but he just gave an awfu’ skirl an’ disappeared into a hole.”—(meaning, of course,
a tunnel).

                                                           —Once a Week.

EXTRACTS FROM MACREADY’S DIARIES.

“July 3rd, 1845.—Brewster called to cut my hair; he told me the tradesmen could not get paid
in London, for all the money was employed in railroads.”

“June 19th, 1850.—We were surprised by the entrance of Carlyle and Mrs. C—.  I was delighted
to see them.  Carlyle inveighed against railroads—he was quite in one of his exceptious moods.”

FREAKS OF CONCEALED BOGS.

Great difficulties have often been encountered by engineers in carrying earth embankments across
low grounds, which, under a fair, green surface, concealed the remains of ancient bogs, sometimes
of great depth.  Thus, on the Leeds and Bradford Extension, about 600 tons of stone and earth
were daily cast into an embankment near Bingley, and each morning the stuff thrown in on the
preceding day was found to have disappeared.  This went on for many weeks, the bank, however,
gradually advancing, and forcing up on either side a spongy black ridge of moss.  On the South-Western
Railway a heavy embankment, about fifty feet high, crossed a piece of ground near Newham, the
surface of which seemed to be perfectly sound and firm.  Twenty feet, however, beneath the
surface an old bog lay concealed; and the ground giving way, the fluid, pressed from beneath
the embankment, raised the adjacent meadows in all directions like waves of the sea.  A culvert,
which permitted the flow of a brook under the bank, was forced down, the passage of the water
entirely stopped, and several thousand acres of the finest land in Hampshire would have been
flooded but for the exertions of the engineer, who completed a new culvert just as the other
had become completely closed.  The Newton-green embankment, on the Sheffield and Manchester
line, gave way in like manner, and to such an extent as to spread out two or three times its
original width.  In this case it was found necessary to carry the line across the parts which
yielded, under strong timber shores.  On the Dundalk and Enniskillen line a heavy embankment
twenty feet high suddenly disappeared one night in the bog of Meghernakill, nearly adjoining
the river Fane.  The bed of the river was forced up, and the flow of the water for the time
was stopped, and the surrounding country heavily flooded.  A concealed bog of even greater
extent, on the Durham and Sunderland Railway, near Aycliff, was crossed by means of a double-planked
road, about two miles in length.  A few weeks after the line had been opened, part of the road
sank one night entirely out of sight.  The defect was made good merely by extending the floating
surface of the road at this portion of the bog.

                                                      —Quarterly Review.

A RAILWAY MARRIAGE.

In Maine, a conductor—too busy, we suggest, saying “Go ahead!” to be particular about wedding
formalities—invited his betrothed and a minister into a car, and while the train was in motion
was married; leaving that station a bachelor, at this station he was a married man!  It is
but one of a thousand examples of life as it goes in this fast country.

                                                       —New York Nation.

ATTEMPTED FRAUDS.

Feb. 29, 1849, Central Criminal Court.—Robert Duncan, aged 47, staymaker, Mary Duncan, his
wife, who surrendered to take her trial, and Pierce Wall O’Brien, aged 30, printer, were indicted
for conspiring together to obtain money from the London and North-Western Railway Company by
false pretences.

From the statement of Mr. Clarkson and the evidence, it appeared that the charges made against
the prisoners involved a most impudent attempt at fraud.  It appears that on the 5th of September
last year an accident occurred to the up mail train from York, near the Leighton Buzzard station,
but, although some injury was occasioned to the train, it seemed that none of the passengers
received any personal injury.  On the 26th of October following, however, the company received
a communication from Mr. Harrison, requiring compensation on behalf of defendant, Robert Duncan,
for an injury alleged to have been sustained by his wife upon the occasion of the collision
referred to, it being represented, also, that her brother, the defendant O’Brien, who was travelling
with her at the time from York, had likewise received serious injury by the same accident.
The company immediately sent a medical gentleman to the place described as the residence of
these persons, No. 59, George Street, Southwark, and he there saw the man Robert Duncan, who
represented that his wife was dangerously ill, and that the result of the accident on the railway
was a premature confinement, and that her life was in danger. Mr. Porter was then introduced
to the female defendant, whom he found in bed, apparently in great pain, and she confirmed
her husband’s statement. In the same house the prisoner O’Brien was found in bed, and he also
told the same story about the accident on the railway.  It appeared that some suspicion was
entertained by the company of the general character of the transaction, and they had been instituting
inquiries.  On the 2nd of November they received another letter from the prisoner Robert Duncan,
in which he made an offer to accept £60 for the injury his wife had received, and also stating
that Mr. O’Brien was willing to accept a similar amount for the damage he had sustained.  At
this it appeared Mr. Harrison resolved not to have anything further to do with the matter,
unless he received satisfactory proof of the truth of the story told by the parties; and another
solicitor was employed by the defendants, who brought an action against the company for damages
for the alleged injury, and he proceeded so far as to give notice of trial.  The case, however,
never went before a jury in that shape, and by this time it was discovered that there was no
truth in the story told by the defendants. It was proved at the period when the accident was
alleged to have occurred to the female defendant, she was residing with her husband, and was
in her usual health.  With regard to O’Brien, there was no evidence to show that he was upon
the train at the time the accident happened, but, according to the testimony of a witness named
Darke, during the period when the negotiation was going on with the company, O’Brien requested
him to write a letter to Mr. Harrison to the effect that he was riding in the same carriage
with Mrs. Duncan and her brother at the time of the accident, and he was aware of her having
been injured, and gave him a written statement to that effect, which he copied.  This witness,
in cross-examination, admitted that at the time he wrote the statement he was perfectly well
aware it was false, and he also said that notwithstanding this, he made no difficulty in doing
what O’Brien requested, and also that he should have been ready to make a solemn declaration
of the truth of the statement if he had been required to do so.

A verdict of “Not Guilty” was taken as to the female prisoner, on the ground that she was acting
under the control of her husband.  The jury returned a verdict of “Guilty” against the two
male defendants.

Mr. Clarkson said he was instructed to state that, at the period of the catastrophe on board
the Cricket steam-boat, the prisoners obtained a sum of £70 from the company to which that
vessel belonged, by the false pretence that they had received injury upon the occasion.

The Recorder sentenced Duncan to be imprisoned for twelve, and O’Brien for six months.

                                                        Annual Register.

A BRIDE’S LOST LUGGAGE.

The trouble which is bestowed by railway companies to cause the restitution of lost property
is incalculable.  Some years ago, a young lady lost a portmanteau from the rest of her luggage—a
pardonable oversight, for she was a bride starting on a honeymoon trip.  The bridegroom—never
on such occasions an accountable being—had not noticed the misfortune.  When the loss was discovered,
and application made respecting it, the lady spoke positively of having seen it at the station
whence they started, then again at a station where they had to change carriages; she saw it
also when they left the railway; it was all safe, she averred, at the hotel where they stopped
for a few days.  She was also certain that it was among the rest of the “things” when they
again started for a watering-place; but, when they arrived there, it was missing.  It contained
a new riding habit, value fifteen pounds.  The search that was instituted for this portmanteau
recalled that of Telemachus for Ulysses; the railway officials sent one of their clerks with
a carte blanche to trace the bride’s journey to the end of the last mile, till some tidings
of the strayed trunk could be traced.  He went to every station, to every coach-office in connection
with every station, to every town, to every hotel, and to every lodging that the happy couple
had visited.  His expenses actually amounted to fifteen pounds.  He came back without success.
At length the treasure was found; but where?  At the by-station on another line, whence the
bride had started from home a maiden.  Yet she had positively declared, without doubt or reservation,
that she had, “with her own eyes,” seen the trunk on the various stages of her tour; this can
only be accounted for by the peculiar flustration of a young lady just plunged into the vortex
of matrimony.  The husband paid the whole of the costs.

THIRD-CLASS PASSENGERS.

The conveyance of passengers at cheap fares was from the commencement of railways a great public
concern, and it was soon found necessary that the legislature should take action in the matter.
Accordingly, by the Regulation of Railways Act, 1844, all passenger railways were required
to run one train every day from end to end of their line, carrying third-class passengers at
a rate not exceeding one penny a mile, stopping at all stations, starting at hours approved
by the Board of Trade, travelling at least twelve miles an hour, and with carriages protected
from weather.  This enactment greatly encouraged the poorer classes in railway travelling;
but the companies were slow to carry out the new regulations cheerfully.  The trains were timed
at most inconvenient hours; to undertake a journey of any considerable length in one day at
third-class fare was almost out of the question.  In fact, a short-sighted policy of doing
almost everything to discourage third-class travelling was adopted by the Companies.

A traveller having started on a long journey, thinking to be able to travel all the way third-class,
would find at some stage of the route that he had arrived, only a few minutes perhaps, after
the departure of the cheap train to his destination, with no alternative but to wait for hours
or proceed by the express and pay accordingly.  Moreover, the third-class carriages were provided
with the very minimum of comfort.  It was not seen by the railway executive of that time that
the policy adopted was actually prejudicial to their own interests.

                                        Our Railways, by Joseph Parsloe.

IMPROVEMENT IN THIRD-CLASS TRAVELLING.

The Rev. F. S. Williams, in an article in the Contemporary Review, entitled “Railway Revolutions,”
remarks:—“We need not go back so far as the time when third-class passengers had to stand in
a sort of cattle-pen placed on wheels; it is only a few years since the Parliamentary trains
were run in bare fulfilment of the obligations of Parliament, and when a journey by one of
them could never be looked upon as anything better than a necessary evil.  To start in the
darkness of a winter’s morning to catch the only third-class train that ran; to sit, after
a slender breakfast, in a vehicle the windows of which were compounded of the largest amount
of wood and the smallest amount of glass, and which were carefully adjusted to exactly those
positions in which the fewest travellers could see out of them; to stop at every roadside station,
however insignificant; and to accomplish a journey of 200 miles in about ten hours—such were
the ordinary conditions which Parliament in its bounty provided for the people.  Occasionally,
moreover, the monotony of progress was interrupted by the shunting of the train into a siding,
where it might wait for more respectable passenger trains and fast goods to pass.”

“We remember,” says a writer, “once standing on the platform at Darlington when the Parliamentary
train arrived.  It was detained for a considerable time to allow a more favoured train to pass,
and, on the remonstrance of several of the passengers at the unexpected detention, they were
coolly informed, “Ye mun bide till yer betters gaw past, ye are only the nigger train.”

“If there is one part of my public life,” recently said Mr. Allport (Midland Railway) to the
writer, “in which I look back with more satisfaction than anything else, it is with reference
to the boon we conferred on third-class passengers.  When the rich man travels, or if he lies
in bed all day, his capital remains undiminished, and perhaps his income flows in all the same.
But when a poor man travels he has not only to pay his fare, but to sink his capital, for his
time is his capital; and if he now consumes only five hours instead of ten in making a journey,
he has saved five hours of time for useful labour—useful to himself, to his family, and to
society.  And I think with even more pleasure of the comfort in travelling we have been able
to confer upon women and children.  But it took,” he added, “five-and-twenty years’ work to
get it done.”

A GREAT DISCOVERY.

Confound that Pope Gregory who changed the style!  He, or some one else, has robbed the month
of February, in ordinary years, of no less than three days, for Mr. George Sutton, the solicitor,
has discovered and established by the last Brighton Act of Parliament that February has really
thirty-one days, while that good-for-nothing Pope led us to believe it had only twenty-eight.
The language of the 45th clause of the Act or of the bill which went into the Lords is:—

“That so much of the said Consolidation Act as enacts that the ordinary meetings of the company,
subsequent to the first ordinary meeting thereof, shall be held half-yearly on the 31st day
of July, and thirty-first day of February in each year, or within one month before or after
these days shall be, and the same is hereby repealed.”

The next clause enacts, we suppose by reason of “the 31st of February” being an inconvenient
day, that the meetings shall be held on the 31st of January and the 31st of July, a month before
or a month after.

On account of the great value of an addition of three days to our years, and, therefore, an
annual addition to our lives of three days, we beg to propose that a handsome testimonial be
given to Mr. George Sutton, the eminent solicitor of the Brighton Railway Company, the author
of the Act and the discoverer of the Pope’s wicked conduct.  We further propose that it be
given him on “the 31st day of February” next year, and that his salary be paid on that day,
and no other, every year.

                                   —Herepath’s Journal, June 24th, 1854.

A DREADED EVIL.

When the old Sheffield and Rotherham line was contemplated, “A hundred and twenty inhabitants
of Rotherham, headed by their vicar, petitioned against the bill, because they thought the
canal and turnpike furnished sufficient accommodation between the two towns, and because they
dreaded an incursion of the idle, drunken, and dissolute portion of the Sheffield people as
a consequence of increasing the facilities of transit.”  For a time the opposition was successful
but eventually the Lord’s Committee yielded to the perseverance of the promoters of the bill.

                                    Sheffield and Rotherham Independent.

REMARKABLE ADVENTURE.

A young lady some years ago thus related an adventure she met with in travelling.  “After I
had taken my seat one morning at Paddington, in an empty carriage, I was joined, just as the
train was moving off, by a strange-looking young man, with remarkably long flowing hair.  He
was, of course, a little hurried, but he seemed besides to be so disturbed and wild that I
was quite alarmed, for fear of his not being in his right mind, nor did his subsequent conduct
at all reassure me.  Our train was an express, and he inquired eagerly, at once, which was
the first station we were advertised to stop.  I consulted my Bradshaw and furnished him with
the required information.  It was Reading.  The young man looked at his watch.

“‘Madam,’ said he, ‘I have but half-an-hour between me and, it may be, ruin.  Excuse, therefore,
my abruptness.  You have, I perceive, a pair of scissors in your workbag.  Oblige me, if you
please, by cutting off all my hair.’

“‘Sir,’ said I, ‘it is impossible.’

“‘Madam,’ he urged, and a look of severe determination crossed his features; ‘I am a desperate
man.  Beware how you refuse me what I ask. Cut my hair off—short, close to the roots—immediately;
and here is a newspaper to hold the ambrosial curls.’

“I thought he was mad, of course; and believing that it would be dangerous to thwart him, I
cut off all his hair to the last lock.

“‘Now, madam,’ said he, unlocking a small portmanteau, ‘you will further oblige me by looking
out of the window, as I am about to change my clothes.’

“Of course I looked out of the window for a very considerable time, and when he observed, ‘Madam,
I need no longer put you to any inconvenience,’ I did not recognise the young man in the least.

“Instead of his former rather gay costume, he was attired in black, and wore a grey wig and
silver spectacles; he looked like a respectable divine of the Church of England, of about sixty-four
years of age; to complete that character, he held a volume of sermons in his hand, which—they
appeared so to absorb him—might have been his own.

“‘I do not wish to threaten you, young lady,’ he resumed, ‘and I think, besides, that I can
trust your kind face.  Will you promise me not to reveal this metamorphosis until your journey’s
end?’

“‘I will,’ said I, ‘most certainly.’

“At Reading, the guard and a person in plain clothes looked into our carriage.

“‘You have the ticket, my love,’ said the young man, blandly, and looking to me as though he
were my father.

“‘Never mind, sir; we don’t want them,’ said the official, as he withdrew his companion.

“‘I shall now leave you, madam,’ observed my fellow-traveller, as soon as the coast was clear;
‘by your kind and courageous conduct you have saved my life and, perhaps, even your own.’

“In another minute he was gone, and the train was in motion.  Not till the next morning did
I learn from the Times newspaper that the gentleman on whom I had operated as hair cutter had
committed a forgery to an enormous amount, in London, a few hours before I met him, and that
he had been tracked into the express train from Paddington; but that—although the telegraph
had been put in motion and described him accurately—at Reading, when the train was searched,
he was nowhere to be found.”

SAFETY ON THE FLOOR.

Many concussions give no warning of their approach, while others do, the usual premonitory
symptoms being a kind of bouncing or leaping of the train.  It is well to know that the bottom
of the carriage is the safest place, and, therefore, when a person has reason to anticipate
a concussion, he should, without hesitation, throw himself on the floor of the carriage.  It
was by this means that Lord Guillamore saved his life and that of his fellow passengers some
years since, when a concussion took place on one of the Irish railways.  His Lordship feeling
a shock, which he knew to be the forerunner of a concussion, without more ado sprang upon the
two persons sitting opposite to him, and dragged them with him to the bottom of the carriage;
the astonished persons at first imagined that they had been set upon by a maniac, and commenced
struggling for their liberty, but in a few seconds they but too well understood the nature
of the case; the concussion came, and the upper part of the carriage in which Lord Guillamore
and the other two persons were was shattered to pieces, while the floor was untouched, and
thus left them lying in safety; while the other carriages of the train presented nothing but
a ghastly spectacle of dead and wounded.

                                    —The Railway Traveller’s Handy Book.

LIFE UPON THE RAILWAY, BY A CONDUCTOR.

The Western Division of our road runs through a very mountainous part of Virginia, and the
stations are few and far between.  About three miles from one of these stations, the road runs
through a deep gorge of the Blue Ridge, and near the centre is a small valley, and there, hemmed
in by the everlasting hills, stood a small one-and-a-half-story log cabin. The few acres that
surrounded it were well cultivated as a garden, and upon the fruits thereof lived a widow and
her three children, by the name of Graff.  They were, indeed, untutored in the cold charities
of an outside world—I doubt much if they ever saw the sun shine beyond their own native hills.
In the summer time the children brought berries to the nearest station to sell, and with the
money they bought a few of the necessities of the outside refinement.

The oldest of these children I should judge to be about twelve years, and the youngest about
seven.  They were all girls, and looked nice and clean, and their healthful appearance and
natural delicacy gave them a ready welcome.  They appeared as if they had been brought up to
fear God and love their humble home and mother.  I had often stopped my train and let them
get off at their home, having found them at the station some three miles from home, after disposing
of their berries.

I had children at home, and I knew their little feet would be tired in walking three miles,
and therefore felt that it would be the same with these fatherless little ones.  They seemed
so pleased to ride, and thanked me with such hearty thanks, after letting them off near home.
They frequently offered me nice, tempting baskets of fruit for my kindness; yet I never accepted
any without paying their full value.

Now, if you remember, the winter of ’54 was very cold in that part of the State, and the snow
was nearly three feet deep on the mountains.

On the night of the 26th of December, of that year, it turned around warm, and the rain fell
in torrents.  A terrible storm swept the mountain tops, and almost filled the valleys with
water.  Upon that night my train was winding its way, at its usual speed, around the hills
and through the valleys, and as the road-bed was all solid rock, I had no fear of the banks
giving out.  The night was intensely dark, and the winds moaned piteously through the deep
gorges of the mountains.  Some of my passengers were trying to sleep, others were talking in
a low voice, to relieve the monotony of the scene.  Mothers had their children upon their knees,
as if to shield them from some unknown danger without.

It was near midnight, when a sharp whistle from the engine brought me to my feet.  I knew there
was danger by that whistle, and sprang to the brakes at once, but the brakesmen were all at
their posts, and soon brought the train to a stop.  I seized my lantern and found my way forward
as soon as possible, when what a sight met my gaze!  A bright fire of pine logs illuminated
the track for some distance, and not over forty rods ahead of our train a horrible gulf had
opened its maw to receive us!

The snow, together with the rain, had torn the whole side of the mountain out, and eternity
itself seemed spread out before us.  The widow Graff and her children had found it out, and
had brought light brush from their home below, and built a large fire to warn us of our danger.
They had been there more than two hours watching beside that beacon of safety.  As I went up
where that old lady stood drenched through by the rain and sleet, she grasped my arm and cried:

“Thank God! Mr. Sherbourn, we stopped you in time.  I would have lost my life before one hair
of your head should have been hurt.  Oh, I prayed to heaven that we might stop the train, and,
my God, I thank thee!”

The children were crying for joy.  I confess I don’t very often pray, but I did then and there.
I kneeled down by the side of that good old woman, and offered up thanks to an All Wise Being
for our safe deliverance from a most terrible death, and called down blessings without number
upon that good old woman and her children.  Near by stood the engineer, fireman, and brakesmen,
the tears streaming down their bronzed cheeks.

I immediately prevailed upon Mrs. Graff and the children to go back into the cars out of the
storm and cold.  After reaching the cars I related our hair-breadth escape, and to whom we
were indebted for our lives, and begged the men passengers to go forward and see for themselves.
They needed no further urging, and a great many of the ladies went also, regardless of the
storm.  They soon returned, and their pale faces gave full evidence of the frightful death
we had escaped.  The ladies and gentlemen vied with each other in their thanks and heartfelt
gratitude towards Mrs. Graff and her children, and assured her that they would never, never
forget her, and before the widow left the train she was presented with a purse of four hundred
and sixty dollars, the voluntary offering of a whole train of grateful passengers.  She refused
the proffered gift for some time, and said she had only done her duty, and the knowledge of
having done so was all the reward she asked.  However, she finally accepted the money, and
said it should go to educate her children.

The railway company built her a new house, gave her and her children a life pass over the road,
and ordered all trains to stop and let her get off at home when she wished, but the employés
needed no such orders, they can appreciate all such kindness—more so than the directors themselves.

The old lady frequently visits my home at H— and she is at all times a welcome visitor at my
fireside.  Two of the children are attending school at the same place.

                             —Appleton’s American Railway Anecdote Book.

A COUNTY COURT JUDGE’S FEELING AGAINST RAILWAYS.

In a County Court case at Carlisle, reported in the Carlisle Journal, of October 31st, 1851,
the judge (J. K. Knowles, Esq.) is represented to have said:—“You may depend upon it, if I
could do anything for you, I would, for I detest all railways.  If they get a verdict in this
case it will be the first, and I hope it will be the last.”

RAILWAY TICKETS.

A writer in that valuable miscellany Household Words, remarks:—“About thirteen years ago, a
Quaker was walking in a field in Northumberland, when a thought struck him.  The man who was
walking was named Thomas Edmonson.  He had been, though a Friend, not a very successful man
in life.  He was a man of integrity and honour, as he afterwards abundantly proved, but he
had been a bankrupt, and was maintaining himself as a clerk at a small station on the Newcastle
and Carlisle line.  In the course of his duties in this situation, he found it irksome to have
to write on every railway ticket that he delivered.  He saw the clumsiness of the method of
tearing the bit of paper off the printed sheet as it was wanted, and filling it up with pen
and ink.  He perceived how much time, trouble, and error might be saved by the process being
done in a mechanical way; and it was when he set his foot down on a particular spot on the
before mentioned field that the idea struck him how all that he wished might be done by a machine—how
tickets might be printed with the names of stations, the class of carriage, the dates of the
month, and all of them from end to end of the kingdom, on one uniform system.  Most inventors
accomplish their great deeds by degrees—one thought suggesting another from time to time; but,
when Thomas Edmonson showed his family the spot in the field where his invention occurred to
him, he used to say that it came to his mind complete, in its whole scope and all its details.
Out of it has grown the mighty institution of the Railway Clearing House; and with it the grand
organization by which the Railways of the United Kingdom act, in regard to the convenience
of individuals, as a unity.  We may see at a glance the difference to every one of us of the
present organized system—by which we can take our tickets from almost any place to another,
and get into a carriage on almost any of our great lines, to be conveyed without further care
to the opposite end of the kingdom—and the unorganized condition of affairs from which Mr.
Edmonson rescued us, whereby we should have been compelled to shift ourselves and our luggage
from time to time, buying new tickets, waiting while they were filled up, waiting at almost
every point of the journey, and having to do it with divers companies who had nothing to do
with each other but to find fault and be jealous.

“On Mr. Edmonson’s machines may be seen the name of Blaycock; Blaycock was a watchmaker, and
an acquaintance of Edmonson’s, and a man whom he knew to be capable of working out his idea.
He told him what he wanted; and Blaycock understood him, and realized his thought.  The third
machine that they made was nearly as good as those now in use.  The one we saw had scarcely
wanted five shillings worth of repairs in five years; and, when it needs more, it will be from
sheer wearing away of the brass-work, by constant hard friction.  The Manchester and Leeds
Railway Company were the first to avail themselves of Mr. Edmonson’s invention; and they secured
his services at their station at Oldham Road, for a time.  He took out a patent; and his invention
became so widely known and appreciated, that he soon withdrew himself from all other engagements,
to perfect its details and provide tickets to meet the daily growing demand. He let out his
patent on profitable terms—ten shillings per mile per annum; that is, a railway of thirty miles
long paid him fifteen pounds a year for a license to print its own tickets by his apparatus;
and a railway of sixty miles long paid him thirty pounds, and so on.  As his profits began
to come in, he began to spend them; and it is not the least interesting part of his history
to see how.  It has been told that he was a bankrupt early in life.  The very first use he
made of his money was to pay every shilling that he ever owed.  Ho was forty-six when he took
that walk in the field in Northumberland.  He was fifty-eight when he died, on the twenty-second
of June last year.”

TAKEN ABACK.

Four young cavalry officers, travelling by rail, from Boulogne to Paris, were joined at Amiens
by a quiet, elderly gentleman, who shortly requested that a little of one window might be opened—a
not unreasonable demand, as both were shut, and all four gentlemen were smoking.  But it was
refused, and again refused on being preferred a second time, very civilly; whereupon the elderly
gentleman put his umbrella through the glass.  “Shall we stand the impertinence of this bourgeois?”
said the officers to one another.  “Never.”  And they thrust four cards into his hand, which
he received methodically, and looked carefully at all four; producing his own, one of which
he tendered to each officer with a bow. Imagine their feelings when they read on each—“Marshal
Randon, Ministre de Guerre.”

FAITHFUL UNTO DEATH.

The engineer of a train near Montreal saw a large dog on the track.  He was barking furiously.
The engineer blew the whistle at him, but he did not stir, and crouching low, he was struck
by the locomotive and killed. There was a bit of white muslin on the locomotive, and it attracted
the attention of the engineer, who stopped the train and went back.  There lay the dead dog,
and a dead child, which had wandered upon the track and gone to sleep.  The dog had given his
signal to stop the train, and had died at his post.

NARROW ESCAPES FROM BEING LYNCHED.

A writer in All the Year Round, observes:—“A dreadful accident down in ‘Illonoy,’ had particularly
struck me as a warning; for there, while the shattered bodies were still being drawn from under
the piles of shivered carriages, the driver on being expostulated with, had replied:

‘I suppose this ain’t the first railway accident by long chalks!’

Upon which the indignant passengers were with difficulty prevented from lynching the wretch;
but he fled into the woods, and there for a time escaped pursuit.

But, two other railway journeys pressed more peculiarly on my mind; one was that of eight or
ten weeks ago, from Canandaigua to Antrim.  It was there a gentleman from Baltimore, fresh
from Chicago, told me of a railway accident he had himself been witness to, only two days before
I met him.  The 2.40 (night) train from Toledo to Chicago, in which he rode, was upset near
Pocahontas by two logs that had evidently been wilfully laid across the rails.  On inquiry
at the next station, it was discovered that a farmer who had had, a week before, two stray
calves killed near the same place, had been heard at a liquor store to say he would ‘pay them
out for his calves.’  This was enough for the excited passengers, vexed at the detention, and
enraged at the malice that had exposed them to danger and death.  A posse of them instantly
sallied out, beleaguered the farmer’s house, seized him after some resistance, put a rope round
his neck, dragged him to the nearest tree, and would have then and there lynched him, had not
two or three of the passengers rescued him, revolver in hand, and given him up to the nearest
magistrate.”

CURIOUS NOTICE.

The following notice, for the benefit of English travellers, was exhibited some years ago in
the carriage of a Dutch railway:—“You are requested not to put no heads nor arms out of te
windows.”

OBTAINING INFORMATION.

But one of the most difficult things in the world is the levity with which people talk about
“obtaining information.”  As if information were as easy to pick up as stones!  “It ain’t so
hard to nuss the sick,” said a hired nurse, “as some people might think; the most of ’em doesn’t
want nothing, and them as does doesn’t get it.”  Parodying this, one might say, it is much
harder to “obtain information” than some people think; the most don’t know anything, and those
who do don’t say what they know. Here is a real episode from the history of an inquiry, which
took place four or five years ago, into the desirability of making a new line of railway on
the Border.  A witness was giving what is called “traffic evidence,” in justification of the
alleged need of the railway, and this is what occurred:—

Mr. Brown (the cross-examining counsel for the opponents of the new line)—Do you mean to tell
the committee that you ever saw an inhabited house in that valley?

Witness—Yes I do.

Mr. Brown—Did you ever see a vehicle there in your life?

Witness—Yes, I did.

Mr. Brown—Very good.

Some other questions were put, which led to nothing particular: but, just as the witness—a
Scotchman—was leaving the box, the learned gentleman put one more question:—

Q.—I am instructed to ask you, if the vehicle you saw was not the hearse of the last inhabitant?

Answer—It was.

                                                     —Cornhill Magazine.

THE GOAT AND THE RAILWAY.

In Prussian Poland the goods and cattle trains are prohibited from carrying passengers under
any conditions, and, however urgent their necessities, the only exception allowed being the
herd-keepers in charge of cattle.  So strictly is this regulation enforced that even medical
men are not allowed to go by them when called for on an emergency, and where life and death
may be the result of their quick transit.  This is generally considered a great hardship, the
more so as there are only two passenger trains daily on the above railroads.  But the inventive
genius of a small German innkeeper at Lissa has hit upon a clever plan of circumventing the
government regulations in a perfectly legitimate manner.  He keeps a goat, which he hires out
to persons wanting to proceed in a hurry by a cattle train, at the rate of 6d. per station,
the passenger then applying for a ticket as the person in charge of the goat, which he obtains
without any difficulty.  In this manner a well-known nobleman, residing at Lissa, is frequently
seen travelling by the cattle train to Posen, in the passenger’s carriage, and the goat is
so tame that a very slender silk ribbon suffices to keep it from straying.

THE FIRST RAILWAY IN THE CRIMEA.

During the Russian War, in 1854, when the whole country was horror-struck with the report of
the sufferings endured by our brave soldiers in the Crimea, Mr. Peto, in the most noble and
disinterested manner, and at the cost of his seat in the House of Commons for Norwich—which
city he had represented for several years—constructed for the Government a line of railway
from Balaclava to the English camp before Sebastopol, which at the end of the war, with its
various branches, was 37 English miles in length and had 10 locomotives on it.  In recognition
of this patriotic service the honour of a baronetcy was, in the following year, conferred upon
him by Her Majesty.

                                                          —Old Jonathan.

THE BALACLAVA RAILWAY.

The following interesting extract from a communication to the Times, by Sir Morton Peto, Bart.,
respecting the construction of the railway from Balaclava to the British camp is worthy of
preservation.  Sir Morton remarks:—“It was in the midst of the dreary winter of 1854, when
the British army was suffering unparalleled hardships before Sebastopol, that it was resolved
to construct a railway from Balaclava to the British camp.  Let honour be given where honour
is due.—The idea emanated from the Duke of Newcastle.  His Grace applied to our firm to assist
in carrying out the design.  The sympathies of all England were excited at the time by the
sufferings of our troops.  Every one was emulous to contribute all that could be contributed
to their succour and support. The firm of which I am a partner was anxious to take its share
in the good work, and, on the Duke of Newcastle’s application, we cheerfully undertook to make
all the arrangements for carrying his Grace’s views into execution, on the understanding that
the work should be considered National; and that we should be permitted to execute it without
any charge for profit.

We accordingly placed at the disposal of Her Majesty’s Government the whole of our resources.
We fitted out transports with the stores necessary for the construction of the railway; employed
and equipped hundreds of men to execute the works; provided a commissariat exclusively for
their use; engaged medical officers to attend to their health, and placed the whole service
under the direction of the most experienced agents on our staff.  These important preliminaries
were arranged so effectually, and with so much despatch, that the Emperor of the French sent
an agent to this country to instruct himself as to the mode in which we equipped the expedition.

Every item shipped by us for the works was valued before shipment at its selling price; and
for all these items of valuation, as well as for the payments which we made for labour, we
received the certificate of the most eminent engineer of the day (the late lamented Mr. Robert
Stephenson).  We undertook the execution of the Balaclava Railway as a ‘National’ work, agreeing
to execute it without profit.  We performed our contract to the letter.  We never profited
by it to the extent of a single shilling.

The works (nearly seven miles of railway) were executed in less than a month; an incredibly
short space of time, considering the season of the year, the severity of the climate, and the
difficulties to which, considering the distance from home, we were all of us exposed.  It is
a matter of history that they eventuated in the taking of the great fortress of Sebastopol.
Before the railway was made, all the shot, all the shell, and all the ammunition necessary
for the siege, had to be carried from Balaclava to the camp, a distance of five miles up hill,
through mud and sludge, upon the backs of the soldiers.  An immense proportion of our troops
was told off for this most laborious service; of whom no less than 25 per cent per month perished
in its execution.  On the day the railway was opened, it carried to the camp of the British
army, in 24 hours, more shot and shell than had been brought from Balaclava for six weeks previously.

To our principal agent in the Crimea, the late Mr. Beattie, the greatest credit was due for
the way in which the arrangements were made, and the work executed on that side.  Mr. Beattie’s
labours were so arduous, and his efforts so untiring, that he died of fatigue within six weeks
after the completion of the work—a victim, absolutely, to his unparalleled exertions.  The
only favour in connection with these works which the Duke of Newcastle ever granted at our
request, he granted to the family of this lamented gentleman.  Mr. Beattie left a widow and
four children to deplore his loss, and through the favour of the Duke of Newcastle, the widow,
who now resides with her father, an estimable clergyman in the North of Ireland, enjoys a pension
as the widow of a colonel falling in the field.”

PASSENGERS AND OTHER CATTLE.

At the Eastern Counties meeting (1854) the solicitor cut short a clause about passengers, animals,
and cattle, by reading it “passengers and other cattle.”  We do not recollect passengers having
been classed with cattle before.  Perhaps the learned gentleman’s eyesight was defective, or
the print was not very clear.

EXPANSION OF RAILS.

Robert Routledge, in his article upon railways, remarks:—“It may easily be seen on looking
at a line of rails that they are not laid with the ends quite touching each other, or, at least,
they are not usually in contact.  The reason of this is that space must be allowed for the
expansion which takes place when a rise in the temperature occurs.  The neglect of this precaution
has sometimes led to damage and accidents.  A certain railway was opened in June, and, after
an excursion train had in the morning passed over it, the midday heat so expanded the iron
that the rails became, in some places, elevated to two feet above the level, and the sleepers
were torn up; so that in order to admit the return of the train, the rails had to be fully
relaid in a kind of zigzag.  In June, 1856, a train was thrown off the metals of the North-Eastern
Railway, in consequence of the rails rising up through expansion.”

A SMART REJOINDER.

An American railway employé asked for a pass down to visit his family. “You are in the employ
of the railway?” asked the gentleman applied to. “Yes.”  “You receive your pay regularly?”
“Yes.”  “Well, now, suppose you were working for a farmer, instead of a railway, would you
expect your employer to hitch up his team every Saturday night and carry you home?”  This seemed
a poser, but it wasn’t.  “No,” said the man promptly, “I wouldn’t expect that; but if the farmer
had his team hitched up and was going my way, I should call him a contemptible fellow if he
would not let me ride.”  Mr. Employé came out three minutes afterwards with a pass good for
three months.

COURTING ON A RAILWAY THIRTY MILES AN HOUR.

An incident occurred on the Little Miami Railway which outstrips, in point of speed and enterprise,
although in a somewhat different field, the lightning express, “fifty-cents-a-mile” special
train achievement which attended the delivery of the recent famous “defalcation report” in
this city.  The facts are about thus: A lady, somewhat past that period of life which the world
would term “young”—although she might differ from them—was on her way to this city, for purposes
connected with active industry.  At a point on the road a traveller took the train, who happened
to enter the car in which the young lady occupied a seat.  After walking up and down between
the seats, the gentleman found no unoccupied seat, except the one-half of that upon which the
lady had deposited her precious self and crinoline—the latter very modestly expansive.  Making
a virtue of necessity—a “stand-ee” berth or a little self-assurance—he modestly inquired if
the lady had a fellow-traveller, and took a seat.

As the train flew along with express speed, the strangers entered into a cosy conversation,
and mutual explanations.  The gentleman was pleased, and the lady certainly did not pout. 
After other subjects had been discussed, and worn thread-bare, the lady made inquiries as to
the price of a sewing machine, and where such an article could be purchased in this city. 
The gentleman ventured the opinion that she had “better secure a husband first.”  This opened
the way for another branch of conversation, and the broken field was industriously cultivated.

By the time the train arrived at the depot in this city, the gentleman had proposed and been
accepted (although the lady afterwards declared she regarded it all as a good joke).  The party
separated; the gentleman, all in good earnest, started for a license, and the lady made her
way to a boarding-house on Broadway, above Third, for dinner.  At two o’clock the gentleman
returned with a license and a Justice, to the great astonishment of the fair one, and after
a few tears and half-remonstrative expressions, she submitted with becoming modesty, and the
Squire performed the little ceremony in a twinkling.  If this is not a fast country, a search-warrant
would hardly succeed in finding one.

                                                 —Cincinnati Commercial.

THE MERCHANT AND HIS CLERK.

A London merchant resided a few miles from the City, in an elegant mansion, to and from which
he journeyed daily, and invariably by third class.  It happened that one of the clerks in his
employ lived in a cottage accessible by the same line of railway, but he always travelled first
class; the same train thus presenting the anomaly of the master being in that place which one
would naturally assign to the man, and the man appearing to usurp the position of the master.
One day these two alighted at the terminus in full view of each other.  “Well,” said Mr. B—,
in that tone of banter which a superior so frequently thinks it becoming to adopt, “I don’t
know how you manage to ride first-class, when in these hard times I find third-class fare as
much as I can afford.” “Sir,” replied the clerk, “you, who are known to be a person of wealth
and position, may adopt the most economical mode of travelling at no more risk than being thought
eccentric, and even with the applause of some for your manifest absence of pride.  But, as
for myself, I cannot afford to indulge in such irregularities.  Among the persons I travel
with I am reported to be a well-paid employé, and am respected accordingly; to maintain this
reputation I am compelled to travel in the same manner as they do, and were I to adopt an inferior
mode, it would be attributed to some serious falling off of income; a circumstance which would
occasion me not only loss of consideration among my quondam fellow-travellers, but one which,
upon coming to the ears of my butcher, baker, and grocer, might seriously injure my credit
with those highly respectable, but certainly worldly minded tradesmen.”  Mr. B— was not slow
in recognizing the full force of the argument, more particularly as the question of his own
liberality was involved, nor did he hesitate to give it a practical application by immediately
increasing the salary of his clerk; not only to the amount of a first-class season ticket,
but something over.

                                    —The Railway Traveller’s Handy Book.

REMARKABLE WILL.

Some years ago an old gentleman of very eccentric habits, Mr. John Younghusband, of Abbey Holme,
Cumberland, died, and his will has proved to be of the most eccentric character.  The Silloth
Railway runs through part of his property, an arrangement to which he was most passionately
averse; and though years have elapsed since then, his bitterness was in no way assuaged.  In
his will he leaves near £1000 to a solicitor who opposed the making of the railway; the rest
of his money he bequeaths to a comparative stranger upon these conditions—that the legatee
never speaks to one of the directors of the railway, that he never travels upon it, that he
never sends cattle or other traffic by it; and should he violate any of these conditions, the
estate reverts to the ordinary succession.  To Mr. John Irving and the other directors of the
Silloth line Mr. Younghusband has sarcastically bequeathed a farthing.

IMMENSE FRAUD ON THE GREAT-NORTHERN RAILWAY.

In the Annual Register for 1856, November 14th, we read, “Another fraud connected with the
transfer of shares and stock, but on a far grander scale, and by a much more pretentious criminal,
has been discovered.

“Of late some strange discrepancies had been observed in the accounts of the Great-Northern
Railway Company, and in particular that the amount paid for dividends considerably exceeded
the rateable proportion to the capital stock.  An investigation was directed.  The registrar
of shares, Mr. Leopold Redpath, expressed a decided opinion that the investigation into his
department would be useless, and, on its being pressed, absconded.  The investigation developed
a long-continued system of frauds of vast amount, to the amount, it was said, of nearly £250,000.

“Mr. Leopold Redpath passed in society as a gentleman of ample means, great taste, and possessed
of the Christian virtue of charity in no common degree.  He had a house in Chester Terrace,
handsomely furnished, and a “place” at Weybridge complete with every luxury that wealth could
procure; gave good dinners with excellent wines; kept good horses and neat carriages.  He was
a governor of Christ’s Hospital, the St. Ann’s Schools, and subscribed freely to the most useful
charities of London. His appointment on the Great-Northern was worth £300 per annum; but it
was supposed that this was only of consequence to Mr. Redpath as affording him a regular occupation
and an opportunity of operating in the share-market, in which he was known to have extensive
dealings.  The directors of the railway appear to have been perfectly aware that their servant
was living far beyond his salary, but they considered him to be a very successful speculator.
Upon this splendid bubble being blown up, Redpath fled to Paris; but, finding that the French
authorities were not inclined to protect him, he returned to London and surrendered himself.

“The mode in which this gigantic swindler had committed his frauds is simple enough.  Having
charge of the books in which the stock of the company is registered, he altered the sum standing
in the name of some bonâ fide stockholder to a much larger sum, generally by placing a figure
before it, by which simple means £500 became £1,500, or £2,500, or any larger number of thousands.
The surplus stock thus created Redpath sold in the stock-market, forging the name of the supposed
transferer, transferring the sum to the account of the supposed transferee in the register,
and either attesting it himself, or causing it to be attested by a young man, his protegé and
tool, but who appears to have been free from guilty cognizance.  In some instances the fraud
was but the more direct course of making a fictitious entry of stock, and then selling it.
By these processes the number of shareholders and the amount of stock on the company’s register
became greatly magnified, while, as the bonâ fide holders of stock remained credited with their
proper investments, there was no occasion for suspicion on their part.  How Redpath dealt with
subsequent transfers of the fictitious stock does not appear.  The prisoner was subjected to
repeated examination before the police magistrates, when this prodigious falsification was
thoroughly sifted, and the prisoner was finally committed for trial at the Central Criminal
Court in the following year.  It is said that the value of the leases, furniture, and articles
of taste in Redpath’s house in Chester Terrace is estimated at £30,000, and at Weybridge at
a still larger sum.  It is also said that Redpath and Robson, whose forged transfer of Crystal
Palace shares has been recorded in this chronicle, were formerly fellow clerks.

“Lionel Redpath was tried, January 16th, 1857, at the Central Criminal Court, and, being found
guilty, was sentenced to transportation for life. At the same time a junior clerk in his office,
Charles Kent, was also charged as his partner in the crime.  It appeared that Kent had acted
on many occasions as attesting witness to the forged transfers which Redpath had employed to
carry out his ends; but, as no guilty knowledge on the part of the former was shown, he was
acquitted.

“The railway company at first attempted to repudiate the forged stock which Redpath had put
into circulation, but pressing remonstrances, not unaccompanied by threats, having been made
by the Committee of the Stock Exchange, they consented to acknowledge it.  Then came the question
by whom the loss was to be borne; a question which was not solved until after considerable
litigation.  The directors asserted that it ought to be paid out of the current income of the
year, and so it was ultimately decided.  This led to a further question between the guaranteed
shareholders and the rest of the company.  For the diminution of the year’s earnings caused
by taking up the fictitious stock being so great as to render it impossible to satisfy the
guaranteed dividends out of the residue, it was contended on the part of the holders of those
shares that, by the provisions of the deed of settlement, the deficiency ought to be made up
out of the next year’s profits, so that the guarantee that they should receive their specified
dividends was not clogged with the condition in case a sufficient amount of earnings in each
year was made to pay them.  This dispute led to a Chancery suit, the decree in which was in
favour of the holders of the guaranteed shares.”

A LOST TICKET.

“Now, then, make haste there, will you, an’ give up your ticket,” exclaimed a railway guard
to a bandsman in the Volunteers returning from a review.  “Didna I tell ye I’ve lost it?” 
“Nonsense, man; feel in your pockets, you cannot hae lost it.”  “Can I no?” was the drunken
reply; “man, that’s naething, I’ve lost the big drum!”

MELANCHOLY ACCIDENT.—SINGULAR ACTION.

The Annual Register contains the following interesting case.  July 25, 1857.—At the Maidstone
Assizes an action arising out of a singular and melancholy accident was tried.  The action,
Shilling v. The Accidental Insurance Company, was brought by Charlotte Shilling, widow and
administratrix of Thomas Shilling, to recover from the defendants the sum of £2000, upon a
policy effected by the deceased on the life of her father-in-law, James Shilling.  The husband
of the plaintiff, Thomas Shilling, carried on the business of a builder at Malling, a short
distance from Maidstone.  His father, James Shilling, lived with him; he was nearly 80 years
old, and very infirm, and his son used to drive him about occasionally in his pony chaise.
In the month of March, last year, an application was made to the defendants to effect two policies
for £2000 each upon the lives of Thomas Shilling and James Shilling, and to secure that sum
in the event of either of them dying from an accident, and the policies were completed and
delivered in the following month of June.  On the evening of the 11th of July, 1856, about
half-past 7 o’clock, the father and son went from Malling with a pony and chaise, for the purpose
of proceeding to a stone quarry at Aylesford, where Thomas Shilling had business to transact,
and they never returned home again alive.  There where two roads by which they could have got
to the quarry from Malling, one of which was rather a dangerous one to be taken with a vehicle
and horse, on account of a steep bank leading to the river Medway being on one side and the
railway passing close to the other; but this route, it appears, was much shorter than the other,
which was nearly two miles round, and it was consequently constantly used both by pedestrians
and carriages.  About 8 o’clock the pony and chaise and the father and son were seen on this
road, and upon arriving at the gate leading to the quarry, Thomas Shilling got out, leaving
the pony and chaise in charge of his father.  Mr. Garnham, the owner of the quarry, was not
at home, and while one of the labourers was conversing with Thomas Shilling, the sound of an
approaching train was heard, and the men advised him to go back to his pony, for fear it should
take fright at the train, and he said he would do so, as it had been frightened by a train
on a previous occasion. He accordingly went towards the gate where he had left the pony and
chaise, and from that time there was no evidence to show what took place. The family sat up
the whole night awaiting the return of their relatives in the utmost possible alarm at their
absence; but nothing was heard of them until the following morning, when a bargeman found the
drowned pony and the chaise and the dead bodies of the father and son floating in the Medway,
near the spot where the chaise had been last seen on the previous evening.  They were taken
home, and a coroner’s inquest was held, and the only conclusion that could be arrived at was
that the pony had taken fright at the noise of the train, which appeared to have passed about
the time, and that he had jumped into the river, which at this spot was from 12 to 14 feet deep.

The policy on the life of the father had been assigned to the son, whose widow claimed the
two sums insured from the defendants.  That payable on the death of the son they paid: but
they refused to pay that due on the father’s policy, and pleaded to the action several pleas,
alleging certain violations of the conditions; and singularly enough, considering that they
had not disputed the son’s policy on the same ground, they now pleaded that the death was not
the result of accident, but arose from wanton and voluntary exposure to unnecessary danger.

The jury found a verdict for the plaintiff.

A CATASTROPHE.

Au old lady was going from Brookfield to Stamford, and took a seat in the train for the first
and last time in her life.  During the ride the train was thrown down an embankment.  Crawling
from beneath the débris unhurt, she spied a man sitting down, but with his legs laid down by
some heavy timber.  “Is this Stamford?” she anxiously inquired.  “No, madam,” was the reply,
“this is a catastrophe.”  “Oh!” she cried, “then I hadn’t oughter got off here.”

WEDDING AT A RAILWAY STATION.

Baltimore has had what it calls a romantic wedding at Camden Station.  A few moments before
the departure of the outbound Washington train, a gentleman accompanied by a lady and another
gentleman, whose clerical appearance indicated his profession, alighted from a carriage and
entered the depot.  Upon the locks of the leader of the party the snows of fifty winters had
evidently fallen, while the lady had apparently reached that age when she is supposed to have
lain aside her matrimonial cap.  Quietly approaching the officer on duty within the station,
they asked for a room where a marriage ceremony might be privately performed.  The request
was readily granted, and under the leadership of the obliging officer, the party was conducted
to the despatch room, a small lobby in the eastern part of the building, where in a few minutes
the twain were made man and wife.  With pleasant smiles, and a would-be-congratulated look
upon their countenances, they mingled with the crowd in waiting; and when the gates were thrown
open, arm in arm they boarded the train, their fellow-passengers all the while ignorant of
the interesting ceremony.

                                                     —Illustrated World.

ENGINE FASCINATION.

The fascination which engines and their human satellites exercise over some minds is very great;
and while speaking on the subject, I am reminded of a young man who haunted for years one of
our chief termini: he was the son of a leading west end confectioner, so that his early training
had in no way disposed him to an engineering life; but he was the most remarkable accumulation
of statistics in connection therewith I over knew.  The line employed several hundreds of engines,
and he not only knew the names of all of them, but when they were made, and who had made them;
when each one had last been supplied with a new set of tubes at the factory—this last, of course
only referred to the engines employed on the main line, which he had an opportunity of seeing,
and would miss when they were laid up for repair—and how this had had the pressure on its safety-valve
increased, and this had been diminished.  He had such a retentive memory for these and kindred
facts, that I have seen the foreman of the works appeal to him for information, which was never
lacking.  His penchant was so well known that he had special permission for access to the works.

                                                    —Chambers’s Journal.

COMPETITION FOR PASSENGERS.

Mr. Galt remarks:—“In the summer of 1857 the London and North-Western and Great Northern railways
contended with each other for the passenger traffic from London to Manchester.  First-class
and second-class passengers were conveyed at fares, there and back, of seven and sixpence and
five shillings respectively, the distance being 400 miles, and four clear days were allowed
in Manchester.  As might have been expected, trains were well filled, and, but for the fact
that the other traffic was much interfered with, the fares would, it is said, have been remunerative.
As it was, it is said the shareholders lost 1 per cent. dividend.

“Another memorable contest was carried on about the year 1853 between the Caledonian and the
Edinburgh and Glasgow Companies.  The latter suddenly reduced the fares between Edinburgh and
Glasgow for the three classes from eight shillings, six shillings, and four shillings, to one
shilling, ninepence, and sixpence.  The contest was continued for a-year-and-a-half, and cost
the Edinburgh and Glasgow Company nearly 1 per cent. in their dividends.”

ACCIDENT HOAX.

The following impudent hoax, contained in a letter which appeared in the Times in 1860, was
most annoying to the officials of the Great Northern Company.  It is headed:—

                 “Accident on the Great Northern Railway.
                      “To the Editor of the Times.

“Sir,—I beg to inform you of a serious accident, attended by severe injury, if not loss of
life, which occured to-day to the 8 o’clock a.m. train from Wakefield, on the Great Northern
railway, near Doncaster, by which I was a passenger.  As the train approached Doncaster, about
9 o’clock, the passengers were suddenly alarmed by the vehement oscillation of the carriages.
In a few seconds the engine had run off the line, dragging the greater part of the train with
it across the opposite line of rails.  By this time the concussion had become so vehement that
the grappling chains connecting the engine, tender, and first carriage with the rest of the
train providentially snapped.  This circumstance saved the lives of many.  But the engine,
tender, and first carriage were hurled over the embankment, all three being together overturned,
and the latter (a second-class one) nearly crushed.  The stoker was severely injured on the
head, and his recovery is more than doubtful; the engine driver contrived to leap off in time
to save himself with a few bruises. The shrieks of the passengers in the overturned carriage
(three women and five men) were fearful; and for some time their extrication was impossible.
One middle-aged woman had her thigh broken, another her arm fractured.  One old man had one,
if not two of his ribs broken.  The passengers in the other carriages, in one of which I was
travelling, were less seriously injured, though sufficiently so to talk about compensation,
instead of assisting in earnest those with broken limbs. The line of rails was torn up for
a considerable distance.  Owing to the telegraph being out of gear, some delay in communicating
with Doncaster was experienced.  A surgeon and various hands at length arrived with a special
train for the injured passengers, who, after long delay, were removed to Doncaster.  I, of
course, as a medical man, rendered what assistance I could.  Those worst injured were conveyed
to the Railway Arms, the recovery of more than one being doubted by myself.  At length a fresh
train started from Doncaster, and we reached London nearly two hours after due.

The carelessness of the Company will, I hope, be the subject of your severest animadversion.
The accident was caused by the tire of one of the right wheels of the engine having flown off;
and it is clear that the engine was not in a condition to ply between the stations of the Great
Northern railway.

I have no objection to your use of my name if you think fit to publish it.

                                                    Your obedient servant,
                                    Thomas Waddington, M.D., of Wakefield.
                                  Morley’s Hotel, Charing Cross, March 26.

To the above letter the following reply was sent to the Times.

                 “Alleged Accident on the Great Northern.
                      “To the Editor of the Times.

“Sir,—The Directors of the Great Northern railway will feel much obliged by the insertion of
the following statement in the Times to-morrow relative to a letter which appeared therein
to-day, signed ‘Thomas Waddington, M.D., of Wakefield,’ and headed, ‘Accident on the Great
Northern railway.’

There was no accident whatever yesterday on the Great Northern railway.

The trains all reached King’s Cross with punctuality, the most irregular in the whole day being
only five minutes late.  No such person as Thomas Waddington is known at Morley’s Hotel, whence
the letter in question is dated.

                                              I am, Sir, yours faithfully,
                                           Seymour Clark, General Manager,
                                                   King’s Cross, March 27.

In the Times on the day following appeared a letter from the real Dr. Waddington, of Wakefield,
(Edward not “Thomas”) confirmatory of the impudence of the hoax.

           “The alleged Accident on the Great Northern railway.
                      “To the Editor of the Times.

“Sir,—My attention has been called to a letter in the Times of yesterday (signed ‘Thomas Waddington,
M.D., of Wakefield’) the signature of which is as gross and impudent a fabrication as the circumstances
which the writer professes to detail.  I need only say there is no ‘M.D.’ here named Waddington
but myself, and that I was not on the Great Northern or any other Railway on the 26th inst,
when the accident is alleged to have occured.

Having obtained possession of the original letter, I have handed it to my solicitors, in the
hope that they may be enabled to discover and bring to justice the perpetrator of this very
stupid hoax.

                                         I am, Sir, your obedient servant,
                                                   Edward Waddington, M.D.

   Wakefield, March 28.

A’PENNY A MILE.

Two costers were looking at a railway time-table.

“Say, Jem,” said one of them, “vot’s P.M. mean?”

“Vy, penny a mile, to be sure.”

“Vell, vot’s A.M.?”

“A’penny a mile, to be sure.”

SINGULAR FREAK.

In October, 1857, Mr. Tindal Atkinson applied to Mr. Hammill, at Worship Street Police Court,
to obtain a summons under the following strange circumstances:—

“Mr. Atkinson stated that he was instructed on behalf of the Directors of the Eastern Counties
Railway Company to apply to the magistrate under the terms of their Act of Incorporation, for
a summons against Mr. Henry Hunt, of Waltham-Cross, Essex, for having unlawfully used and worked
a certain locomotive upon a portion of their line, without having previously obtained the permission
or approval of the engineers or agents of the company, whereby he had rendered himself liable
to a penalty of £20.  He should confine himself to that by stating that in the dark, on the
night of Thursday, the 1st instant, a locomotive engine belonging to Mr. Hunt was suddenly
discovered by some of the company’s servants to be running along the rails in close proximity
to one of the regular passenger trains on the North Woolwich line.  So great was the danger
of a collision, that they were obliged to instantly stop the train till the stranger engine
could get out of the way, to the great terror of the passengers by the train, and as he was
instructed it was almost the result of a merciful interposition of Providence that a collision
had not occurred between them, in which event it would probably have terminated fatally, to
a greater or lesser extent.  He now desired that summonses might be granted not only against
the owner of the engine so used, but also against the driver and stoker of it, both of whom,
it was obvious, must have been well aware of their committing an unlawful act, and of the perilous
nature of the service in which they were engaged when they were running an engine at such a
time and place.

“Mr. Hammill said it certainly was a most extraordinary proceeding for anyone to adopt, and
after the learned gentleman’s statement he had no hesitation whatever in granting summonses
against the whole of the persons engaged in it.”

A.B.C. AND D.E.F.

A gentleman travelling in a railway carriage was endeavouring, with considerable earnestness,
to impress some argument upon a fellow-traveller who was seated opposite to him, and who appeared
rather dull of apprehension.  At length, being slightly irritated, he exclaimed in a louder
tone, “Why, sir, it’s as plain as A.B.C.”  “That may be,” quietly replied the other, “but I
am D.E.F.”

NATIONAL CONTRAST.

The contrast which exists between the character of the French and English navvy may be briefly
exemplified by the following trifling anecdote:—

“In excavating a portion of the first tunnel east of Rouen towards Paris, a French miner dressed
in his blouse, and an English “navvy” in his white smock jacket, were suddenly buried alive
together by the falling in of the earth behind them.  Notwithstanding the violent commotion
which the intelligence of the accident excited above ground, Mr. Meek, the English engineer
who was constructing the work, after having quietly measured the distance from the shaft to
the sunken ground, satisfied himself that if the men, at the moment of the accident, were at
the head of “the drift” at which they were working, they would be safe.

Accordingly, getting together as many French and English labourers as he could collect, he
instantly commenced sinking a shaft, which was accomplished to the depth of 50 feet in the
extraordinary short space of eleven hours, and the men were thus brought up to the surface alive.

The Frenchman, on reaching the top, suddenly rushing forward, hugged and saluted on both cheeks
his friends and acquaintances, many of whom had assembled, and then, almost instantly overpowered
by conflicting feelings—by the recollection of the endless time he had been imprisoned and
by the joy of his release—he sat down on a log of timber, and, putting both his hands before
his face, he began to cry aloud most bitterly.

The English “navvy” sat himself down on the very same piece of timber—took his pit-cap off
his head—slowly wiped with it the perspiration from his hair and face—and then, looking for
some seconds into the hole or shaft close beside him through which he had been lifted, as if
he were calculating the number of cubic yards that had been excavated, he quite coolly, in
broad Lancashire dialect, said to the crowd of French and English who were staring at him,
as children and nursery-maids in our London Zoological Gardens stand gazing half-terrified
at the white bear, “YAW’VE BEAN A DARMNATION SHORT TOIME ABAAOWT IT!”

                                       Sir F. Head’s Stokers and Pokers.

REMARKABLE ACCIDENT.

The most remarkable railway accident on record happened some years ago on the North-Western
road between London and Liverpool.  A gentleman and his wife were travelling in a compartment
alone, when—the train going at the rate of forty miles an hour—an iron rail projecting from
a car on a side-track cut into the carriage and took the head of the lady clear off, and rolled
it into the husband’s lap.  He subsequently sued the company for damages, and created great
surprise in court by giving his age at thirty-six years, although his hair was snow white.
It had been turned from jet black by the horror of that event.

ENGINEERING LOAN, OR STAKING OUT A RAILWAY.

“Beau” Caldwell was a sporting genius of an extremely versatile character.  Like all his fraternity,
he was possessed of a pliancy of adaptation to circumstances that enabled him to succumb with
true philosophy to misfortunes, and also to grace the more exalted sphere of prosperity with
that natural ease attributed to gentlemen with bloated bank accounts.

Fertile in ingenuity and resources, Beau was rarely at his wit’s end for that nest egg of the
gambler, a stake.  His providence, when in luck, was such as to keep him continually on the
qui vive for a nucleus to build upon.

Beau, having exhausted the pockets and liberality of his contemporaries in Charleston, S.C.,
was constrained to “pitch his tent” in fresh pastures.  He therefore selected Abbeville, whither
he was immediately expedited by the agency of a “free pass.”

Snugly ensconced in his hotel, Beau ruminated over the means to raise the “plate.”  The bar-keeper
was assailed, but he was discovered to have scruples (anomalous barkeeper!)  The landlord was
a “grum wretch,” with no soul for speculation.  The cornered “sport” was finally reduced to
the alternative of “confidence of operation.”  Having arranged his scheme, he rented him a
precious negro boy, and borrowed an old theodolite.  Thus equipped, Beau betook himself to
the abode of a neighbouring planter, notorious for his wealth, obstinacy, and ignorance.  Operations
were commenced by sending the nigger into the planter’s barn-yard with a flagpole.  Beau got
himself up into a charming tableau, directly in front of the house.  He now roared at the top
of his voice, “72,000,000—51—8—11.”

After which he went to driving small stakes, in a very promiscuous manner, about the premises.

The planter hearing the shouting, and curious to ascertain the cause, put his head out of the
window.

“Now,” said Beau, again assuming his civil engineering pose, “go to the right a little further—there,
that’ll do.  47,000—92—5.”

“What the d---l are you doing in my barn-yard?” roared the planter.

Beau would not consent to answer this interrogation, but pursuing his business, hallooed out
to his “nigger”—

“Now go to the house, place your pole against the kitchen door, higher—stop at that.  86—45—6.”

“I say there,” again vociferated the planter, “get out of my yard.”

“I’m afraid we will have to go right through the house,” soliloquized Beau.

“I’m d--d if you do,” exclaimed the planter.

Beau now looked up for the first time, accosting the planter with a courteous—

“Good day, sir.”

“Good d---l, sir; you are committing a trespass.”

“My dear friend,” replied Beau, “public duty, imperative—no trespass—surveying railroad—State
job—your house in the way.  Must take off one corner, sir,—the kitchen part—least value—leave
the parlour—delightful room to see the cars rush by twelve times a day—make you accessible
to market.”

Beau, turning to the nigger, cried out—

“Put the pole against the kitchen door again—so, 85.”

“I say, stranger,” interrupted the planter, “I guess you ain’t dined.  As dinner’s up, suppose
you come in, and we’ll talk the matter over.”

Beau, delighted with the proposition, immediately acceded, not having tasted cooked provisions
that day.

“Now,” said the planter, while Beau was paying marked attention to a young turkey, “it’s mighty
inconvenient to have one’s homestead smashed up, without so much as asking the liberty.  And
more than that, if there’s law to be had, it shan’t be did either.”

“Pooh! nonsense, my dear friend,” replied Beau, “it’s the law that says the railroad must be
laid through kitchens.  Why, we have gone through seventeen kitchens and eight parlours in
the last eight miles—people don’t like it, but then it’s law, and there’s no alternative, except
the party persuades the surveyor to move a little to the left, and as curves costs money most
folks let it go through the kitchen.”

“Cost something, eh?” said the planter, eagerly catching at the bait thrown out for him.  “Would
not mind a trifle.  You see I don’t oppose the road, but if you’ll turn to the left and it
won’t be much expense, why I’ll stand it.”

“Let me see,” said Beau, counting his fingers, “forty and forty is eighty, and one hundred.
Yes, two hundred dollars will do it.” Unrolling a large map, intersected with lines running
in every direction, he continued—“There is your house, and here’s the road.  Air line.  You
see to move to the left we must excavate this hill.  As we are desirous of retaining the goodwill
of parties residing on the route, I’ll agree on the part of the company to secure the alteration,
and prevent your house from being molested.”

The planter revolved the matter in his mind for a moment and exclaimed:—

“You’ll guarantee the alteration?”

“Give a written document.”

“Then it’s a bargain.”

The planter without more delay gave Beau an order on his city factor for the stipulated sum,
and received in exchange a written document, guaranteeing the freedom of the kitchen from any
encroachment by the C. L. R. R. Co.

Before leaving, Beau took the planter on one side and requested him not to disclose their bargain
until after the railroad was built.

“You see, it mightn’t exactly suit the views of some people—partiality, you know.”

The last remark, accompanied by a suggestive wink, was returned by the planter in a similar
demonstration of owlishness.

Beau resumed his theodolite, drove a few stakes on the hill opposite, and proceeded onward
in the fulfilment of his duties.  As his light figure receded into obscurity and the distance,
the planter caught a sound vastly like 40—40—120—200.—And that was the last he ever heard of
the railroad.

                              Appleton’s American Railway Anecdote Book.

MR. FRANK BUCKLAND’S FIRST RAILWAY JOURNEY.

Mr. Spencer Walpole remarks:—“Of Mr. Buckland’s Christ Church days many good stories are told.
Almost every one has heard of the bear which he kept at his rooms, of its misdemeanours, and
its rustication.  Less familiar, perhaps, is the story of his first journey by the Great Western.
The dons, alarmed at the possible consequences of a railway to London, would not allow Brunel
to bring the line nearer than to Didcot. Dean Buckland in vain protested against the folly
of this decision, and the line was kept out of harm’s way at Didcot.  But, the very day on
which it was opened, Mr. Frank Buckland, with one or two other undergraduates, drove over to
Didcot, travelled up to London, and returned in time to fulfil all the regulations of the university.
The Dean, who was probably not altogether displeased at the joke, told the story to his friends
who had prided themselves in keeping the line from Oxford.  ‘Here,’ he said, ‘you have deprived
us of the advantage of a railway, and my son has been up to London.’”

SCENE BEFORE A SUB-COMMITTEE ON STANDING ORDERS. PETITIONING AGAINST A RAILWAY BILL, 1846.

“Well, Snooks,” began the Agent for the Promoters, in cross-examination, “you signed the petition
against the Bill—aye?”

“Yees, zur.  I zined summit, zur.”

“But that petition—did you sign that petition?”

“I do’ant nar, zur; I zined zummit, zur.”

“But don’t you know the contents of the petition?”

“The what, zur?”

“The contents; what’s in it.”

“Oa!  Noa, zur.”

“You don’t know what’s in the petition!—Why, ain’t you the petitioner himself?”

“Noa, zur, I doan’t nar that I be, zur.”

[“Snooks!  Snooks!  Snooks!” issued a voice from a stout and benevolent-looking elderly gentleman
from behind, “how can you say so, Snooks?  It’s your petition.”  The prompting, however, seemed
to produce but little impression upon him for whom it was intended, whatever effect it may
have had upon the minds of those whose ears it reached, but for whose service it was not intended].

“Really, Mr. Chairman,” observed the Agent for the Bill, who appeared to have no idea of Burking
the inquiry, “this is growing interesting.”

“The interest is all on your side,” remarked the Agent for the petition (against the Bill).

“Now, Snooks,” continued the Agent for the Bill, “apply your mind to the questions I shall
put to you, and let me caution you to reply to them truly and honestly.  Now, tell me—who got
you to sign this petition?”

“I object to the question,” interposed the Agent for the petition.  “The matter altogether
is descending into mean, trivial, and unnecessary details, which I am surprised my friend opposite
should attempt to trouble the Committee with.”

“I can readily understand, sir,” replied the other, “why my friend is so anxious to get rid
of this inquiry—simple and short as it will be; but I trust, sir, that you will consider it
of sufficient importance to allow it to proceed.  I purpose to put only a few questions more
on this extraordinary petition against the Bill (the bare meaning of the name of which the
petitioner does not seem to understand) for the purpose of eliciting some further information
respecting it.”

The Committee being thus appealed to by both parties, inclined their heads for a few moments
in order to facilitate a communication in whispers, and then decided that the inquiry might
proceed.  It was evident that the matter had excited an interest in the minds and breasts of
the honourable members of the Committee; created as much perhaps by the extreme mean and poverty-stricken
appearance of the witness—a miserable, dirty, and decrepit old man—as by the disclosures he
had already made.

“Well, Snooks, I was about to ask you (when my friend interrupted me) who got you to sign the
petition, or that zummit as you call it?”

“Some genelmen, zur.”

“Who were they—do you know their names?”

“Noa, zur, co’ant say I do nar ’em a’, zur.”

“But do you know any of them, was that gentleman behind you one?”

[The gentleman referred to was the fine benevolent-looking individual who had previously kindly
endeavoured to assist the witness in his answers, and who stood the present scrutiny with marked
composure and complaisance].

“Yees, zur, he war one on ’em.”

“Do you know his name?”

“Noa, zur, I doant; but he be one of the railway genelmen.”

“What did he say to you, when he requested you to sign the petition?”

“He said I ware to zine (pointing to the petition) that zummit.”

“When and where, pray, did you sign it?”

“A lot o’ railway genelmen kum to me on Sunday night last; and they wo’ make me do it, zur.”

“On Sunday night last, aye!”

“What, on Sunday night!” exclaimed one honourable member on the extreme right of the Chairman,
with horror depicted on his countenance; “are you sure, witness, that it was done in the evening
of a Sabbath?”

“The honourable member asks you, whether you are certain that you were called upon by the railway
gentlemen to sign the petition on a Sunday evening?  I think you told me last Sunday evening.”

“Oa, yees, zur; they kum just as we war a garing to chapel.”

“Disgraceful, and wrong in the extreme!” ejaculated the honourable member.

“And did not that gentleman” (continued the Agent for the Bill), “nor any of the railway gentlemen,
as you call them, when they requested you to sign, explain the nature and contents of the petition?”

“Noa, zur.”

“Then you don’t know at this moment what it’s for?”

“Noa, zur.”

“Of course, therefore, it’s not your petition as set forth?”

“I doant nar, zur.  I zined zummit.”

“Now, answer me, do you object to this line of railway?  Have you any dislike to it?”

“O, noa, zur.  I shud loak to zee it kum.”

“Exactly, you should like to see it made.  So you have been led to petition against it, though
you are favourable to it?”

The petitioner against the Bill did not appear to comprehend the precise drift of the remark,
and his only reply to the wordy fix into which the learned agent had drawn him was made in
the dumb-show of scratching with his one disengaged hand (the other being employed in holding
his hat) his uncombed head—an operation that created much laughter, which was not damped by
the Agent’s putting, with a serious face, a concluding question or remark to him to the effect
that he presumed he (the witness) had not paid, or engaged to pay, so many guineas a day to
his friend on the other side for the prosecution of the opposition against the Bill—had he;
yes, or no?  The witness’s appearance was the only and best answer.

The petition, of course, upon this exposé, was withdrawn.

This, the substance of what actually took place before one of the Sub-Committees on Standing
orders will give some idea of the nature of many of the petitions against Railway Bills, especially
on technical points.  It will serve to show in some measure what heartless mockeries these
petitions mostly are; the moral evils they give birth to—and that, even while complaining of
errors, they are themselves made up of falsehood.

AN IDEA ON RAILWAYS.

A happy comment on the annihilation of time and space by locomotive agency, is as follows:—A
little child who rode fifty miles in a railway train, and then took a coach to her uncle’s
house, some five miles further, was asked on her arrival if she came by the cars.  “We came
a little way in the cars, and all the rest of the way in a carriage.”

BURNING THE ROAD CLEAR.

It is related of Colonel Thomas A. Scott, that on one occasion, when making one of his swift
trips over the American lines under his control, his train was stopped by the wreck of a goods
train.  There was a dozen heavily loaded covered trucks piled up on the road, and it would
take a long time to get help from the nearest accessible point, and probably hours more to
get the track cleared by mere force of labour.  He surveyed the difficulty, made a rough calculation
of the cost of a total destruction of the freight, and promptly made up his mind to burn the
road clear.  By the time the relief train came the flames had done their work and nothing remained
but to patch up a few injuries done to the track so as to enable him to pursue his way.

HARSH TREATMENT OF A MAN OF COLOUR.

My treatment in the use of public conveyances about these times was extremely rough, especially
on “The Eastern Railroad,” from Boston to Portland.  On the road, as on many others, there
was a mean, dirty, and uncomfortable car set apart for coloured travellers, called the “Jim
Crow” car.  Regarding this as the fruit of slaveholding prejudice, and being determined to
fight the spirit of slavery wherever I might find it, I resolved to avoid this car, though
it sometimes required some courage to do so.  The coloured people generally accepted the situation,
and complained of me as making matters worse rather than better, by refusing to submit to this
proscription.  I, however, persisted, and sometimes was soundly beaten by the conductor and
brakeman.  On one occasion, six of these “fellows of the baser sort,” under the direction of
the conductor, set out to eject me from my seat.  As usual, I had purchased a first-class ticket,
and paid the required sum for it, and on the requirement of the conductor to leave, refused
to do so, when he called on these men “to snake me out.”  They attempted to obey with an air
which plainly told me they relished the job.  They, however, found me much attached to my seat,
and in removing me tore away two or three of the surrounding ones, on which I held with a firm
grasp, and did the car no service in some respects.  I was strong and muscular, and the seats
were not then so firmly attached or of as solid make as now.  The result was that Stephen A.
Chase, superintendent of the road, ordered all passenger trains to pass through Lynn, where
I then lived, without stopping.  This was a great inconvenience to the people, large numbers
of whom did business in Boston, and at other points of the road.  Led on, however, by James
N. Buffum, Jonathon Buffum, Christopher Robinson, William Bassett, and others, the people of
Lynn stood bravely by me, and denounced the railway management in emphatic terms.  Mr. Chase
made reply that a railroad corporation was neither a religious nor a reformatory body; and
that the road was run for the accommodation of the public; and that it required the exclusion
of the coloured people from its cars.  With an air of triumph he told us that we ought not
to expect a railroad company to be better than the Evangelical Church, and that until the churches
abolished the “negro pew,” we ought not to expect the railroad company to abolish the negro
car.  This argument was certainly good enough as against the Church, but good for nothing as
against the demands of justice and equity.  My old and dear friend, J. N. Buffum, made a point
against the company that they “often allowed dogs and monkeys to ride in first-class cars,
and yet excluded a man like Frederick Douglass!”  In a very few years this barbarous practice
was put away, and I think there have been no instances of such exclusion during the past thirty
years; and coloured people now, everywhere in New England, ride upon equal terms with other
passengers.

                                  —Life and Times of Frederick Douglass.

QUITE TOO CLEVER

The elder Dumas was at the railway station, just starting to join his yacht at Marseilles.
Several friends had accompanied him, to say good-bye.  Suddenly he was informed that he had
a hundred and fifty kilogrammes excess of luggage.  “Ho, ho!” cried Dumas.  “How many kilogrammes
are allowed?”  “Thirty for each person,” was the reply. Silently he made a mental calculation,
and then in a tone of triumph bade his secretary take places for five.  “In that way,” he explained,
“we shall have no excess.”

A DIFFICULTY SOLVED.

Among the improvements that have been carried out at Windsor during the autumn, has been an
entire alteration in the draining of the Home Park about Frogmore.  New drains have been laid,
and the waste earth has been used to level the ground.  This portion of the Royal domain was
almost wild at the beginning of the present reign.  It consisted of fields, with low hedges
and deep ditches, and was intersected by a road, on which stood several cottages and a public-house.
It was quite an eyesore, and Prince Albert was at his wit’s end to know how to convert it into
a park and exclude the public, as before this could be done, it was necessary to make a new
road in place of the one it was desired to abolish, and altogether a large outlay was inevitable;
and even in those days, it was out of the question to apply to Parliament for the amount required,
which, I believe, was about £80,000.

The difficulty, however, was solved in rather a strange way.  In the early days of railroads
they were looked upon as nuisances, and the authorities at Windsor Castle were firmly resolved
that no line should approach the Royal borough, in which resolution they were warmly supported
by the equally stupid and short-sighted managers of Eton College.  Although the inhabitants
sighed for a railway, none was brought nearer than Slough.  At this moment, when the park question
was being agitated, the South Western Directors brought forward a proposition that they should
make a line into Windsor, running along one side of the Home Park, and right under the Castle.
This audacious idea was regarded with indignation at the Castle, until a hint was received
that possibly, if Royal interest were forthcoming to support the plan, the Company might be
able to facilitate the proposed alterations; and it then came out, strangely enough, they had
fixed the precise sum needed (£80,000) as compensation for the disturbance of the Royal property.
No more was heard of the objections to the scheme, which had been so vehemently denounced a
few days before, but, no sooner did it transpire that the South-Western plan was not opposed
by the Castle interest than down came the Great-Western authorities in a fever of indignation,
for it appeared they had received an explicit promise that, if Windsor was ever desecrated
by a railway, they should have the preference.  So resolute was their attitude, that so far
as I remember, the sitting of Parliament was actually protracted in order that their Bill might
be passed; not that they got it without paying, for they gave £20,000 for an old stable and
yard which were required for their station, and which happened to stand on Crown property.
Things were sometimes managed strangely enough in those days.

                                                  —Truth, Dec. 29, 1881.

AN EXACTING LADY.

A lady of fashion with a pugdog and a husband entered the train at Paddington the other day.
There were in the carriage but two persons, a well-known Professor and his wife; yet the lady
of fashion coveted, not indeed his chair, but his seat.  “I wish to sit by the window, sir,”
she said, imperiously, and he had to move accordingly.  “No, sir, that won’t do,” she said,
as he meekly took the next place.  “I can’t have a stranger sitting close to me.  My husband
must sit where you are.”

                                                   Gentleman’s Magazine.

AMERICAN PATIENCE AND IMPERTURBABILITY.

About an hour after midnight, on our journey from Boston to Albany, we came to a sudden pause
where no station was visible; and immediately, very much to my surprise, the engine-driver,
conductor, and several passengers were seen sallying forth with lanterns, and hastening down
the embankment on our right.  “What are they going to do now?” said I to a gentleman, who,
like myself, kept his seat.  “Only to take a look at some cars that were smashed this morning,”
was the reply.  On opening the window to observe the state of affairs, as well as the darkness
would allow, there, to be sure, at the bottom and along the side of the high bank, lay an unhappy
train, just as it had been upset.  The locomotive on its side was partly buried in the earth;
and the cars which had followed it in its descent lay in a confused heap behind.  On the top
of the bank, near to us, the last car of all stood obliquely on end, with its hind wheels in
the air in a somewhat grotesque and threatening attitude.  All was now still and silent.  The
killed and wounded, if there were any, had been removed.  No living thing was visible but the
errant engineer and others from our train clambering with lanterns in their hands over a prostrate
wreck, and with heedless levity passing critical remarks on the catastrophe.  Curiosity being
satisfied all resumed their places, and the train moved on without a murmur of complaint as
to the unnecessary, and, considering the hour, very undesirable delay.  I allude to the circumstance,
as one of a variety of facts that fell within my observation, illustrative of the singular
degree of patience and imperturbability with which railway travellers in America submit uncomplainingly
to all sorts of detentions on their journey.

                    Things as they are in America, by W. Chambers, 1853.

A WIDE-AWAKE CONDUCTOR.

Dana Krum, one of the conductors on the Erie Railway, was approached before train time by an
unknown man, who spoke to him as if he had known him for years.  “I say, Dana,” said he, “I
have forgotten my pass, and I want to go to Susquehanna; I am a fireman on the road, you know.”
But the conductor told him he ought to have a pass with him.  It was the safest way.  Pretty
soon, Dana came along to collect tickets.  Seeing his man, he spoke when he reached him.  “Say,
my friend, have you got the time with you?”  “Yes,” said he, as he pulled out a watch, “it
is twenty minutes past nine.”  “Oh, it is, is it?  Now, if you don’t show me your pass or fare,
I will stop the train.  There is no railway man that I ever saw who would say ‘Twenty minutes
past nine.’  He would say, ‘Nine-twenty.’”  He settled.

A KID-GLOVED SAMSON.

A correspondent of the Chicago Journal relates the following feat of strength, to which he
was witness:—

“On Sunday, about nine o’clock A.M., as the train westward was within three or four miles of
Chicago, on the Fort Wayne road, a horse was discovered on the stilt-work between the rails.
The train was stopped, and workmen were sent to clear the track.  It was then discovered that
the body of the horse was resting on the sleepers.  His legs having passed through the open
spaces, were too short to reach the ground. Boards and rails were brought, and the open space
in front of the horse filled up, making a plank road for him in case he should be got up, and
by means of ropes one of his fore feet was raised, and there matters came to a halt.  It seemed
that no strength or stratagem could avail to release the animal.  Levers of boards were splintered,
and the men tugged at the ropes in vain, when a passenger, who was looking quietly on, stepped
forward, leisurely slipped off a pair of tinted kids, seized the horse by the tail, and with
tremendous force hurled him forward on the plank road.  No one assisted, and, indeed, the whole
thing was done so quickly that assistance was impossible.  The horse walked away looking foolish,
and casting suspicious side-glances towards his caudal extremity.  The lookers-on laughed and
shouted, while the stranger resumed his kids, muttering something about the inconvenience of
railway delays, lit a cigar, and walked slowly into the smoking car.  He was finely formed,
of muscular appearance, was very fashionably dressed, wore a moustache and whiskers of an auburn
or reddish colour, and to all questions as to who he was, only answered that he was a Pennsylvanian
travelling westward for his health.  The horse would certainly weigh at least twelve hundred.”

A RAILWAY TRAIN TURNED INTO A MAN-TRAP.

A branch of the Bombay presidency runs through a wild region, the inhabitants of which are
unsophisticated savages, addicted to thievery. The first day the line was opened a number of
these Arcadians conspired to intercept the train, and have a glorious loot.  To accomplish
their object they placed some trunks of trees across the rails; but the engine driver, keeping
a very sharp look out, as it happened to be his first trip on the line in question, descried
the trunks while yet they were at a considerable distance from him.  The breaks were then put
on, and when the locomotive had approached within a couple of feet of the trunks it was brought
to a standstill.  Then, instantaneously, like Roderick Dhu’s clansmen starting from the heather,
natives, previously invisible, swarmed up on all sides, and, crowding into the carriages, began
to pillage and plunder everything they could lay their hands upon.  While they were thus engaged,
the guard gave the signal to the driver, who at once reversed his engine and put it to the
top of its speed.  The reader may judge of the consternation of the robbers when they found
themselves whirled backwards at a pace that rendered escape impossible.  Some poor fellows
that attempted it were killed on the spot.

                                    —Central India Times, June 22, 1867.

THE RULING OCCUPATION STRONG ON SUNDAY.

In an Episcopal church in the north, not one hundred miles from Keith, a porter employed during
the week at the railway station, does duty on Sunday by blowing the bellows of the organ. 
The other Sunday, wearied by the long hours of railway attendance, combined, it may be, with
the soporific effects of a dull sermon, he fell sound asleep during the service, and so remained
when the pealing of the organ was required.  He was suddenly and rather rudely awakened by
another official when apparently dreaming of an approaching train, as he started to his feet
and roared out, with all the force and shrillness of stentorian lungs and habit, “Change here
for Elgin, Lossiemouth, and Burghead.”  The effect upon the congregation, sitting in expectation
of a concord of sweet sounds, may be imagined—it is unnecessary to describe it.

                                                —Dumfries Courier, 1866.

THE GOOD THINGS OF RAILWAY ACCIDENTS.

We have always thought that, except to lawyers and railway carriage and locomotive builders,
railway accidents were great misfortunes, but it is evident we were wrong and we hasten to
acknowledge our error.  Speaking on Thursday with a respectable broker about the heavy damages
(£2,000) given the day before on account of the Tottenham accident against the Eastern Counties
Company in the Court of Exchequer, he observed, “It is rather good when these things happen
as it moves the stock.  I have had an order for some days to buy Eastern Counties at 56 and
could not do it, but this verdict has sent them down one per cent., and enabled me now to buy
it.”  With all our railway experience we never dreamt of such a benefit as this accruing from
railway accidents, but it is evidently among the possibilities.

                            —Herepath’s Railway Journal, June 7th, 1860.

BENEFICIAL EFFECT OF A RAILWAY ACCIDENT.

A gentleman who was in a railway collision in 1869, wrote to the Times in November of that
year.  After stating that he had been threatened with a violent attack of rheumatic fever;
in fact, he observed, “my condition so alarmed me, and my dread of a sojourn in a Manchester
hotel bed for two or three months was so great, that I resolved to make a bold sortie and,
well wrapped up, start for London by the 3.30 p.m. Midland fast train.  From the time of leaving
that station to the time of the collision, my heart was going at express speed; my weak body
was in a profuse perspiration; flashes of pain announced that the muscular fibres were under
the tyrannical control of rheumatism, and I was almost beside myself with toothache.  From
the moment of the collision to the present hour no ache, pain, sweat, or tremor has troubled
me in the slightest degree, and instead of being, as I expected, and indeed intended, in bed
drinking tinct. aurantii, or absorbing through my pores oil of horse-chestnut, I am conscientiously
bound to be at my office bodily sound.  Don’t print my name and address, or the Midland Company
may come down upon me for compensation.”

AN EARLY MORNING RIDE TO THE RAILWAY STATION.

In the course of his peregrinations, the railway traveller may find himself in some out-of-the-way
place, where no regular vehicle can be obtained to convey him to the station, and this contretemps
is aggravated when the time of departure happens to be early in the morning. Captain B—, a
man of restless energy and adventurous spirit, emerged early one morning from a hovel in a
distant village, where from stress of weather he had been compelled to pass the night.  It
was just dawn of day, and within an hour of the train he wished to go by would start from the
station, about six miles distant.  He had with him a portmanteau, which it would be impossible
for him to carry within the prescribed time, but which he could not very well leave behind.
Pondering on what he should do, his eye lighted on a likely looking horse grazing in a field
hard by, while in the next field there was a line extended between two posts, for the purpose
of drying clothes upon.  The sight of these objects soon suggested the plan for him to adopt.
In an instant he detached the line, and then taking a piece of bread from his pocket, coaxed
the animal to approach him.  Captain B— was an adept in the management of horses, and as a
rough rider, perhaps, had no equal.  In a few seconds he had, by the aid of a portion of the
line, arranged his portmanteau pannier-wise across the horse’s back, and forming a bridle with
the remaining portion of the line, he led his steed into the lane, and sprang upon his back.
The horse rather relished the trip than otherwise, and what with the unaccustomed burden, and
the consciousness that he was being steered by a knowing hand, he sped onwards at a terrific
pace.  While in mid career, one of the mounted police espied the captain coming along the road
at a distance; recognizing the horse, but not knowing the rider, and noticing also the portmanteau,
and the uncouth equipment, this rural guardian of the peace came to the conclusion that this
was a case of robbery and horse stealing; and as the captain neared him, he endeavoured to
stop him, and stretched forth his hand to seize the improvised bridle, but the gallant equestrian
laughed to scorn the impotent attempt, and shook him off, and shot by him.  Thus foiled, the
policeman had nothing to do than to give chase; so turning his horse’s head he followed in
full cry.  The clatter and shouts of pursuer and pursued brought forth the inhabitants of the
cottages as they passed, and many of these joined in the chase.  Never since Turpin’s ride
to York, or Johnny Gilpin’s ride to Edmonton, had there been such a commotion caused by an
equestrian performance.  To make a long story short, the captain reached the station in ample
time; an explanation ensued; a handsome apology was tendered to the patrol, and a present equally
handsome was forwarded, together with the abstracted property, to the joint owner of the horse
and the clothes-line.

CHEAP FARES.

In the year 1868, Mr. Raphael Brandon brought out a book called Railways and the Public.  In
it he proposes that the railways should be purchased and worked by the government; and that
passengers, like letters, should travel any distance at a fixed charge.  He calculates that
a threepenny stamp for third-class, a sixpenny stamp for second-class, and a shilling stamp
for first-class, should take a passenger any distance whether long or short.  With the adoption
of the scheme, he believes, such an impetus would be given to passenger traffic that the returns
would amount to more than double what they are at present.  There may be flaws in Mr. Brandon’s
theory, yet it may be within the bounds of possibility that some great innovator may rise up
and do for the travelling public by way of organization what Sir Rowland Hill has done for
the postage of the country by the penny stamp.

WHAT ARE YOU GOING TO DO?

The above question was asked by a man of his friend who had been injured in a railway accident,
“I am first going in for repairs, and then for damages,” was the answer.

REPROOF FOR SWEARING.

The manager of one of the great Indian railways, in addressing a European subordinate given
to indulge in needless strong language, wrote as follows:—“Dear sir, it is with extreme regret
that I have to bring to your notice that I observed very unprofessional conduct on your part
this morning when making a trial trip.  I allude to the abusive language you used to the drivers
and others.  This I consider an unwarrantable assumption of my duties and functions, and, I
may say, rights and privileges.  Should you wish to abuse any of our employés, I think it will
be best in future to do so in regular form, and I beg to point out what I consider this to
be.  You will please to submit to me, in writing, the form of oath you wish to use, when, if
it meets my approval, I shall at once sanction it; but if not, I shall refer the same to the
directors; and, in the course of a few weeks, their decision will be known. Perhaps, to save
time, it might be as well for you to submit a list of the expletives generally in use by you,
and I can then at once refer those to which I object to the directors for their decision. 
But, pending that, you will please to understand that all cursing and swearing at drivers and
others engaged on the traffic arrangements in which you may wish to indulge must be done in
writing, and through me.  By adopting this course you will perceive how much responsibility
you will save yourself, and how very much the business of the company will be expedited, and
its interests promoted.”

THE BULLY RIGHTLY SERVED.

