ENGLAND IN AMERICA

1580-1652

By

Lyon Gardiner Tyler, LL.D.

J. & J. Harper Editions Harper & Row, Publishers New York and Evanston

1904 by Harper & Brothers.

CONTENTS

CHAP.                                                         PAGE

EDITOR'S INTRODUCTION                                         xiii

AUTHOR'S PREFACE                                               xix

    I. GENESIS OF ENGLISH COLONIZATION (1492-1579)               3

   II. GILBERT AND RALEIGH COLONIES (1583-1602)                 18

  III. FOUNDING OF VIRGINIA (1602-1608)                         34

   IV. GLOOM IN VIRGINIA (1608-1617)                            55

    V. TRANSITION OF VIRGINIA (1617-1640)                       76

   VI. SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC CONDITIONS OF VIRGINIA (1634-1652)  100

  VII. FOUNDING OF MARYLAND (1632-1650)                        118

 VIII. CONTENTIONS IN MARYLAND (1633-1652)                     134

   IX. FOUNDING OF PLYMOUTH (1608-1630)                        149

    X. DEVELOPMENT OF NEW PLYMOUTH (1621-1643)                 163

   XI. GENESIS OF MASSACHUSETTS (1628-1630)                    183

  XII. FOUNDING OF MASSACHUSETTS (1630-1642)                   196

 XIII. RELIGION AND GOVERNMENT IN MASSACHUSETTS (1631-1638)    210

  XIV. NARRAGANSETT AND CONNECTICUT SETTLEMENTS (1635-1637)    229

   XV. FOUNDING OF CONNECTICUT AND NEW HAVEN (1637-1652)       251

  XVI. NEW HAMPSHIRE AND MAINE (1653-1658)                     266

 XVII. COLONIAL NEIGHBORS (1643-1652)                          282

XVIII. THE NEW ENGLAND CONFEDERATION (1643-1654)               297

  XIX. EARLY NEW ENGLAND LIFE                                  318

   XX. CRITICAL ESSAY ON AUTHORITIES                           328

INDEX                                                          341

MAPS

ROANOKE ISLAND, JAMESTOWN, AND ST. MARY'S (1584-1632)                                     
facing 34

CHART OF VIRGINIA, SHOWING INDIAN AND EARLY ENGLISH SETTLEMENTS IN 1632                   
76

VIRGINIA IN 1652                                                99

MARYLAND IN 1652                                               133

NEW ENGLAND (1652)                                    facing 196

MAINE IN 1652                                                  265

NEW SWEDEN AND NEW NETHERLAND                                  296

EDITOR'S INTRODUCTION

Some space has already been given in this series to the English and their relation to the New
World, especially the latter half of Cheyney's European Background of American History, which
deals with the religious, social, and political institutions which the English colonists brought
with them; and chapter v. of Bourne's Spain in America, describing the Cabot voyages. This
volume begins a detailed story of the English settlement, and its title indicates the conception
of the author that during the first half-century the American colonies were simply outlying
portions of the English nation, but that owing to disturbances culminating in civil war they
had the opportunity to develop on lines not suggested by the home government.

The first two chapters deal with the unsuccessful attempts to plant English colonies, especially
by Gilbert and Raleigh. These beginnings are important because they proved the difficulty of
planting colonies through individual enterprise. At the same time the author brings out clearly
the various motives for colonization--the spirit of adventure, the desire to enjoy a new life,
and the intent to harm the commerce of the colonies of Spain.

In chapters iii. to vi. the author describes the final founding of the first successful colony,
Virginia, and emphasizes four notable characteristics of that movement. The first is the creation
of colonizing companies (a part of the movement described in its more general features by Cheyney
in his chapters vii. and viii.). The second is the great waste of money and the awful sacrifice
of human life caused by the failure of the colonizers to adapt themselves to the conditions
of life in America. That the people of Virginia should be fed on grain brought from England,
should build their houses in a swamp, should spend their feeble energies in military executions
of one another is an unhappy story made none the pleasanter by the knowledge that the founders
of the company in England were spending freely of their substance and their effort on the colony.
The third element in the growth of Virginia is the introduction of the staple crop, always
in demand, and adapted to the soil of Virginia. Tobacco, after 1616, speedily became the main
interest of Virginia, and without tobacco it must have gone down. A fourth characteristic is
the early evidence of an unconquerable desire for self-government, brought out in the movements
of the first assembly of 1619 and the later colonial government: here we have the germ of the
later American system of government.

The founding of the neighboring colony of Maryland (chapters vii. and viii.) marks the first
of the proprietary colonies; it followed by twenty-five years and had the advantage of the
unhappy experience of Virginia and of very capable management. The author shows how little
Maryland deserves the name of a Catholic colony, and he develops the Kent Island episode, the
first serious boundary controversy between two English commonwealths in America.

To the two earliest New England colonies are devoted five chapters (ix. to xiii.), which are
treated not as a separate episode but as part of the general spirit of colonization. Especial
attention is paid to the development of popular government in Massachusetts, where the relation
between governor, council, and freemen had an opportunity to work itself out. Through the transfer
of the charter to New England, America had its first experience of a plantation with a written
constitution for internal affairs. The fathers of the Puritan republics are further relieved
of the halo which generations of venerating descendants have bestowed upon them, and appear
as human characters. Though engaging in a great and difficult task, and while solving many
problems, they nevertheless denied their own fundamental precept of the right of a man to worship
God according to the dictates of his own conscience.

Chapters xiv. to xvi. describe the foundation of the little settlements in Connecticut, Rhode
Island, New Haven, New Hampshire, and Maine; and here we have an interesting picture of little
towns for a time standing quite independent, and gradually consolidating into commonwealths,
or coalescing with more powerful neighbors. Then follow (chapters xvii. and xviii.) the international
and intercolonial relations of the colonies, and especially the New England Confederation,
the first form of American federal government.

A brief sketch of the conditions of social life in New England (chapter xix.) brings out the
strong commercial spirit of the people as well as their intense religious life and the narrowness
of their social and intellectual status. The bibliographical essay is necessarily a selection
from the great literature of early English colonization, but is a conspectus of the most important
secondary works and collections of sources.

The aim of the volume is to show the reasons for as well as the progress of English colonization.
Hence for the illustration Sir Walter Raleigh has been chosen, as the most conspicuous colonizer
of his time. The freshness of the story is in its clear exposition of the terrible difficulties
in the way of founding self-sustaining colonies--the unfamiliar soil and climate, Indian enemies,
internal dissensions, interference by the English government, vague and conflicting territorial
grants. Yet out of these difficulties, in forty-five years of actual settlement, two southern
and six or seven northern communities were permanently established, in the face of the opposition
and rivalry of Spain, France, and Holland. For this task the editor has thought that President
Tyler is especially qualified, as an author whose descent and historical interest connect him
both with the northern and the southern groups of settlements.

AUTHOR'S PREFACE

This book covers a period of a little more than three-quarters of a century. It begins with
the first attempt at English colonization in America, in 1576, and ends with the year 1652,
when the supremacy of Parliament was recognized throughout the English colonies. The original
motive of colonization is found in English rivalry with the Spanish power; and the first chapter
of this work tells how this motive influenced Gilbert and Raleigh in their endeavors to plant
colonies in Newfoundland and North Carolina. Though unfortunate in permanent result, these
expeditions familiarized the people of England with the country of Virginia--a name given by
Queen Elizabeth to all the region from Canada to Florida--and stimulated the successful settlement
at Jamestown in the early part of the seventeenth century. With the charter of 1609 Virginia
was severed from North Virginia, to which Captain Smith soon gave the name of "New England";
and the story thereafter is of two streams of English emigration--one to Virginia and the other
to New England. Thence arose the Southern and Northern colonies of English America, which,
more than a century beyond the period of this book, united to form the great republic of the
United States.

The most interesting period in the history of any country is the formative period; and through
the mass of recently published original material on America the opportunity to tell its story
well has been of late years greatly increased. In the preparation of this work I have endeavored
to consult the original sources, and to admit secondary testimony only in matters of detail.
I beg to express my indebtedness to the authorities of the Harvard College Library and the
Virginia Library for their courtesy in giving me special facilities for the verification of
my authorities.

LYON GARDINER TYLER.

ENGLAND IN AMERICA

CHAPTER I

GENESIS OF ENGLISH COLONIZATION

(1492-1579)

Up to the last third of the sixteenth century American history was the history of Spanish conquest,
settlement, and exploration. Except for the feeble Portuguese settlements in Brazil and at
the mouth of the La Plata, from Florida and the Gulf of Mexico, around the eastern and western
coasts of South America, and northward to the Gulf of California, all was Spanish--main-land
and islands alike. The subject of this volume is the bold assertion of England to a rivalry
in European waters and on American coasts.

How came England, with four millions of people, to enter into a quarter of a century of war
with the greatest power in Europe? The answer is that Spain was already decaying, while England
was instinct with the spirit of progress and development. The contrast grew principally out
of the different attitude of the two nations towards the wealth introduced into Europe from
America, and towards the hitherto established religion of the Christian world. While the treasure
from Mexico and Peru enabled Charles V. and Philip II. to carry on great wars and to establish
an immense prestige at the different courts of Europe, it created a speculative spirit which
drew their subjects away from sober employment. For this reason manufacturing and agriculture,
for which Spain was once so distinguished, were neglected; and the kingdom, thinned of people
and decreasing in industry, grew dependent for supplies upon the neighboring countries.[1]

On the other hand, the treasures which destroyed the manufactures of Spain indirectly stimulated
those of England. Without manufactures, Spain had to employ her funds in buying from other
countries her clothing, furniture, and all that was necessary for the comfort of her citizens
at home or in her colonies in America. In 1560 not above a twentieth part of the commodities
exported to America consisted of Spanish-manufactured fabrics: all the rest came through the
foreign merchants resident in Spain.[2]

Similar differences arose from the attitude of the two kingdoms to religion. Philip loved to
regard himself as the champion of the Catholic church, and he encouraged it to extend its authority
in Spain in the most absolute manner. Spain became the favored home of the Inquisition, and
through its terrors the church acquired complete sovereignty over the minds of the people.
Since free thought was impossible, private enterprise gave way to mendicancy and indolence.
It was not long before one-half of the real estate of the realm fell into the hands of the
clergy and monastic orders.[3]

In England, on the other hand, Henry VIII.'s quarrel with the pope in 1534 gave Protestantism
a foothold; and the suppression of the convents and monasteries in 1537-1539 put the possibility
of the re-establishment of papal power out of question. Thus, while the body of the people
remained attached to the Catholic church under Edward VI. and Queen Mary, the clergy had no
great power, and there was plenty of room for free speech. Under Elizabeth various causes promoted
the growth of Protestantism till it became a permanent ruling principle. Since its spirit was
one of inquiry, private enterprise, instead of being suppressed as in Spain, spread the wings
of manufacture and commerce.[4]

Thus, collision between the two nations was unavoidable, and their rivalry enlisted all the
forces of religion and interest. Under such influences thousands of young Englishmen crossed
the channel to fight with William of Orange against the Spaniards or with the Huguenots against
the Guises, the allies of Spain. The same motives led to the dazzling exploits of Hawkins,
Drake, and Cavendish, and sent to the sea scores of English privateers; and it was the same
motives which stimulated Gilbert in 1576, eighty-four years after the Spaniards had taken possession,
in his grand design of planting a colony in America. Only five years later, in 1497, John Cabot,
under an English charter, reached the continent of North America in seeking a shorter route
by the northwest; and in 1498, with his son Sebastian Cabot, he repeated his visit. But nothing
important resulted from these voyages, and after long neglect their memory was revived by Hakluyt,[6]
only to support a claim for England to priority in discovery.

Indeed, England was not yet prepared for the work of colonization. Her commerce was still in
its infancy, and did not compare with that of either Italy, Spain, or Portugal. Neither Columbus
nor the Cabots were Englishmen, and the advantages of commerce were so little understood in
England about this period that the taking of interest for the use of money was prohibited.[7]
A voyage to some mart "within two days' distance" was counted a matter of great moment by merchant
adventurers.[8]

During the next half-century, only two noteworthy attempts were made by the English to accomplish
the purposes of the Cabots: De Prado visited Newfoundland in 1527 and Hore in 1535,[9] but
neither of the voyages was productive of any important result. Notwithstanding, England's commerce
made some advancement during this period. A substantial connection between England and America
was England's fisheries on the banks of Newfoundland; though used by other European states,
over fifty English ships spent two months in every year in those distant waters, and gained,
in the pursuit, valuable maritime experience. Probably, however, the development of trade in
a different quarter had a more direct connection with American colonization, for about 1530
William Hawkins visited the coast of Guinea and engaged in the slave-trade with Brazil.[10]

Suddenly, about the middle of the century, English commerce struck out boldly; conscious rivalry
with Spain had begun. The new era opens fitly with the return of Sebastian Cabot to England
from Spain, where since the death of Henry VII. he had served Charles V. In 1549, during the
third year of Edward VI., he was made grand pilot of England with an annual stipend of £166
13s. 4d.[11] He formed a company for the discovery of the northeast and the northwest passages,
and in 1553 an expedition under Sir Hugh Willoughby and Richard Chancellor penetrated the White
Sea and made known the wonders of the Russian Empire.[12] The company obtained, in 1554, a
charter of incorporation under the title of the "Merchant Adventurers for the Discovery of
Lands, Territories, Isles, Dominions, and Seignories Unknown or Frequented by Any English."
To Russia frequent voyages were thereafter made. A few days after the departure of Willoughby's
expedition Richard Eden published his Treatyse of the Newe India; and two years later appeared
his Decades of the New World, a book which was very popular among all classes of people in
England. Cabot died not many years later, and Eden, translator and compiler, attended at his
bedside, and "beckons us with something of awe to see him die."[13]

During Mary's reign (1553-1558) the Catholic church was restored in England, and by the influence
of the queen, who was married to King Philip, the expanding commerce of England was directed
away from the Spanish colonial possessions eastward to Russia, Barbary, Turkey, and Persia.
After her death the barriers against free commerce were thrown down. With the incoming of Elizabeth,
the Protestant church was re-established and the Protestant refugees returned from the continent;
and three years after her succession occurred the first of those great voyages which exposed
the weakness of Spain by showing that her rich possessions in America were practically unguarded
and unprotected.

In 1562 Sir John Hawkins, following in the track of his father William Hawkins, visited Guinea,
and, having loaded his ship with negroes, carried them to Hispaniola, where, despite the Spanish
law restricting the trade to the mother-country, he sold his slaves to the planters, and returned
to England with a rich freight of ginger, hides, and pearls. In 1564 Hawkins repeated the experiment
with greater success; and on his way home, in 1565, he stopped in Florida and relieved the
struggling French colony of Laudonnière, planted there by Admiral Coligny the year before,
and barbarously destroyed by the Spaniards soon after Hawkins's departure.[14] The difference
between our age and Queen Elizabeth's is illustrated by the fact that Hawkins, instead of being
put to death as a pirate for engaging in the slave-trade, was rewarded by the queen on his
return with a patent for a coat of arms.

In 1567 Hawkins with nine ships revisited the West Indies, but this time ill-fortune overtook
him. Driven by bad weather into the harbor of San Juan de Ulloa, he was attacked by the Spaniards,
several of his ships were sunk, and some of his men were captured and later put to torture
by the Inquisition. Hawkins escaped with two of his ships, and after a long and stormy passage
arrived safe in England (January 25, 1569).[15] Queen Elizabeth was greatly offended at this
conduct of the Spaniards, and in reprisal detained a squadron of Spanish treasure ships which
had sought safety in the port of London from some Huguenot cruisers.

In this expedition one of the two ships which escaped was commanded by a young man named Francis
Drake, who came to be regarded as the greatest seaman of his age. He was the son of a clergyman,
and was born in Devonshire, where centred for two centuries the maritime skill of England.
While a lad he followed the sea, and acquired reputation for his courage and sagacity. Three
years after the affair at San Juan, Drake fitted out a little squadron, and in 1572 sailed,
as he himself specially states, to inflict vengeance upon the Spaniards. He had no commission,
and on his own private account attacked a power with which his country was at peace.[16]

Drake attacked Nombre de Dios and Cartagena, and, as the historian relates, got together "a
pretty store of money," an evidence that his purpose was not wholly revenge. He marched across
the Isthmus of Panama and obtained his first view of the Pacific Ocean. "Vehemently transported
with desire to navigate that sea," he fell upon his knees, and "implored the Divine Assistance,
that he might at some time or other sail thither and make a perfect discovery of the same."[17]
Drake reached Plymouth on his return Sunday, August 9, 1573, in sermon time; and his arrival
created so much excitement that the people left the preacher alone in church so as to catch
a glimpse of the famous sailor.[18]

Drake contemplated greater deeds. He had now plenty of friends who wished to engage with him,
and he soon equipped a squadron of five ships. That he had saved something from the profits
of his former voyage is shown by his equipment. The Pelican, in which he sailed, had "expert
musicians and rich furniture," and "all the vessels for the table, yea, many even of the cook-room,
were of pure silver."[19] Drake's object now was to harry the coast of the ocean which he had
seen in 1573. Accordingly, he sailed from Plymouth (December 13, 1577), coasted along the shore
of South America, and, passing through the Straits of Magellan, entered the Pacific in September,
1578.

The Pelican was now the only one of his vessels left, as all the rest had either returned home
or been lost. Renaming the ship the Golden Hind, Drake swept up the western side of South America
and took the ports of Chili and Peru by surprise. He captured galleons carrying quantities
of gold, silver, and jewelry, and acquired plunder worth millions of dollars.[20] Drake did
not think it prudent to go home by the way he had come, but struck boldly northward in search
of a northeast passage into the Atlantic. He coasted along California as far as Oregon, repaired
his ship in a harbor near San Francisco, took possession of the country in the name of Queen
Elizabeth and called it Nova Albion. The revenge that Drake had taken for the affair at San
Juan de Ulloa was so complete that for more than a hundred years he was spoken of in Spanish
annals as "the Dragon."

His example stimulated adventure in all directions, and in 1586 Thomas Cavendish, of Ipswich,
sailed to South America and made a rich plunder at Spanish expense. He returned home by the
Cape of Good Hope, and was thus the second Englishman to circumnavigate the globe.[22]

In the mean time, another actor, hardly less adventurous but of a far grander purpose, had
stepped upon the stage of this tremendous historic drama. Sir Humphrey Gilbert was born in
Devonshire, schooled at Eton, and educated at Oxford. Between 1563 and 1576 he served in the
wars of France, Ireland, and the Netherlands, and was therefore thoroughly steeped in the military
training of the age.[23] The first evidence of Gilbert's great purpose was the charter by Parliament,
in the autumn of 1566, of a corporation for the discovery of new trades. Gilbert was a member,
and in 1567 he presented an unsuccessful petition to the queen for the use of two ships for
the discovery of a northwest passage to China and the establishment of a traffic with that
country.[24]

Before long Gilbert wrote a pamphlet, entitled "A Discourse to Prove a Passage by the Northwest
to Cathaia and the East Indies," which was shown by Gascoigne, a friend of Gilbert, to the
celebrated mariner Martin Frobisher, and stimulated him to his glorious voyages to the northeast
coast of North America.[25] Before Frobisher's departure on his first voyage Queen Elizabeth
sent for him and commended him for his enterprise, and when he sailed, July 1, 1576, she waved
her hand to him from her palace window.[26] He explored Frobisher's Strait and took possession
of the land called Meta Incognita in the name of the queen. He brought back with him a black
stone, which a gold-finder in London pronounced rich in gold, and the vain hope of a gold-mine
inspired two other voyages (1577, 1578). On his third voyage Frobisher entered the strait known
as Hudson Strait, but the ore with which he loaded his ships proved of little value. John Davis,
like Frobisher, made three voyages in three successive years (1585, 1586, 1587), and the chief
result of his labors was the discovery of the great strait which bears his name.[27]

Meanwhile, the idea of building up another English nation across the seas had taken a firm
hold on Gilbert, and among those who communed with him were his half-brother Sir Walter Raleigh,
his brothers Adrian and John Gilbert, besides Richard Hakluyt, Sir Philip Sydney, Sir Richard
Grenville, Sir George Peckham, and Secretary of State Sir Francis Walsingham. The ill success
of Frobisher had no influence upon their purpose; but four years elapsed after Gilbert's petition
to the crown in 1574 before he obtained his patent. How these years preyed upon the noble enthusiasm
of Gilbert we may understand from a letter commonly attributed to him, which was handed to
the queen in November, 1577: "I will do it if you will allow me; only you must resolve and
not delay or dally--the wings of man's life are plumed with the feathers of death."[28]

At length, however, the formalities were completed, and on June 11, 1578, letters to Gilbert
passed the seals for planting an English colony in America.[29] This detailed charter of colonization
is most interesting, since it contains several provisions which reappear in many later charters.
Gilbert was invested with all title to the soil within two hundred leagues of the place of
settlement, and large governmental authority was given him. To the crown were reserved only
the allegiance of the settlers and one-fifth of all the gold and silver to be found. Yet upon
Gilbert's power two notable limitations were imposed: the colonists were to enjoy "all the
privileges of free denizens and persons native of England"; and the protection of the nation
was withheld from any license granted by Gilbert "to rob or spoil by sea or by land."

Sir Humphrey lost no time in assembling a fleet, but it was not till November 19, 1578, that
he finally sailed from Plymouth with seven sail and three hundred and eighty-seven men, one
of the ships being commanded by Raleigh. The subsequent history of the expedition is only vaguely
known. The voyagers got into a fight with a Spanish squadron and a ship was lost.[30] Battered
and dispirited as the fleet was, Gilbert had still Drake's buccaneering expedient open to him;
but, loyal to the injunctions of the queen's charter, he chose to return, and the expedition
broke up at Kinsale, in Ireland.[31]

In this unfortunate voyage Gilbert buried the mass of his fortune, but, undismayed, he renewed
his enterprise. He was successful in enlisting a large number of gentlemen in the new venture,
and two friends who invested heavily--Sir Thomas Gerard, of Lancaster, and Sir George Peckham,
of Bucks--he rewarded by enormous grants of land and privileges.[32] Raleigh adventured £2000
and contributed a ship, the Ark Raleigh;[33] but probably no man did more in stirring up interest
than Richard Hakluyt, the famous naval historian, who about this time published his Divers
Voyages, which fired the heart and imagination of the nation.[34] In 1579 an exploring ship
was sent out under Simon Ferdinando, and the next year another sailed under John Walker. They
reached the coast of Maine, and the latter brought back the report of a silver-mine discovered
near the Penobscot.[35]

[Footnote 1: Cf. Bourne, Spain in America, chap. xvi.]

[Footnote 2: Cf. Cheyney, European Background of American History, chap. v.]

[Footnote 3: Prescott, Hist. of the Reign of Philip II., III., 443.]

[Footnote 4: Ibid., chaps, xi., xii.]

[Footnote 5: Maine Hist. Soc., Collections, 2d series, II., 59.]

[Footnote 6: Hakluyt, Discourse on Western Planting.]

[Footnote 7: Robertson, Works (ed. 1818), XI., 136.]

[Footnote 8: Nova Britannia (Force, Tracts, I., No. vi.).]

[Footnote 9: Purchas, Pilgrimes (ed. 1625), III., 809; Hakluyt, Voyages (ed. 1809), III., 167-174.]

[Footnote 10: Hakluyt, Voyages, III., 171; IV., 198.]

[Footnote 11: Purchas, Pilgrimes, III., 808; Hakluyt, Voyages, III., 31.]

[Footnote 12: Hakluyt, Voyages, I., 270.]

[Footnote 13: Winsor, Narrative and Critical History, III., 7.]

[Footnote 14: Hakluyt, Voyages, III., 593, 618.]

[Footnote 15: Ibid., 618-623.]

[Footnote 16: Hakluyt, Voyages, IV., 1; Winsor, Narrative and Critical History, III., 59-84.]

[Footnote 17: Camden, Annals, in Kennet, England, II., 478.]

[Footnote 18: Harris, Voyages and Travels, II., 15.]

[Footnote 19: Harris, Voyages and Travels, II., 15.]

[Footnote 20: Camden, Annals, in Kennet, England, II., 478, 479.]

[Footnote 21: Camden, Annals, in Kennet, England, II., 479, 480; Hakluyt, Voyages, IV., 232-246.]

[Footnote 22: Ibid., 316-341.]

[Footnote 23: Edwards, Life of Raleigh, I., 77.]

[Footnote 24: Cal. of State Pap., Col., 1513-1616, p. 8.]

[Footnote 25: Hakluyt, Voyages, III., 32-46; Edwards, Life of Raleigh, I., 77; Doyle, English
in America, I., 60.]

[Footnote 26: Hakluyt, Voyages, III., 53.]

[Footnote 27: Hakluyt, Voyages, III., 52-104, 132.]

[Footnote 28: Brown, Genesis of the United States, I., 9.]

[Footnote 29: Hakluyt, Voyages, III., 174-176.]

[Footnote 30: Hakluyt, Voyages, III., 186.]

[Footnote 31: Cal. of State Pap., Col., 1574-1674, p. 17.]

[Footnote 32: Cal. of State Pap., Col., 1574-1674, pp. 8-10.]

[Footnote 33: Edwards, Life of Raleigh, I., 82, 83.]

[Footnote 34: Stevens, Thomas Hariot, 40.]

[Footnote 35: Cal. of State Pap., Col., 1574-1660, p. 2.]

CHAPTER II

GILBERT AND RALEIGH COLONIES

(1583-1602)

