    "An Account of the First Aërial Voyage in Britain, in a series
    of letters to his guardian, the Chevalier Gherardo Compagni,
    written under the impressions of the various events that
    affected the undertaking, by Vicent Lunardi, Esq., Secretary to
    the Neapolitan Ambassador. 'A non esse nec fuisse non datur
    argumentum ad non posse.' Second edition, London: printed for
    the Author, and sold at the Panther; also by the Publisher J.
    Bell, at the British Library, Strand, and at Mr. Molini's,
    Woodstock Street, MDCCLXXXIV."

The book contains printed copies of the depositions of witnesses who beheld Lunardi's descent;
and Mr. Baker, who, as a magistrate, took those depositions on oath, to establish what he thought
so wonderful a fact, erected on the spot where the balloon descended, in a field near Colliers
End, in the parish of Standon, Herts, on the left of the high road from London to Cambridge,
a stone with the following inscription on a copper plate. It is still {381} legible, though
somewhat defaced. It is engraved in lines of unequal length, but to save your space I have
not adhered to those divisions.

COLL. ROYAL SOC.

Gwyn's London and Westminster (Vol. ii., p. 297.).--A reference to Mr. Croker's Boswell (last
edit. 1847, p. 181.) may best satisfy § N. "Gwyn," says Mr. Croker, "proposed the principle,
and in many instances the details, of the most important improvements which have been made
in the metropolis in our day." Was this copied into the Literary Gazette?

Mr. Sydney Smirke speaks favourably of Gwyn's favourite project, "the formation of a permanent
Board or Commission for superintending and controlling the architectural embellishments of
London." (Suggestions, &c., 8vo. 1834, p. 23.)

J.H.M. Bath.

Gwyn's London and Westminster (Vol. ii., p. 297.).--Under this head § N. inquires, "Will you
permit me, through your useful publication, to solicit information of the number and date of
the Literary Gazette which recalled public attention to this very remarkable fact:" namely,
that stated by Mr. Thomas Hunt, in his Exemplars of Tudor Architecture (Longmans, 1830), to
the effect that the Literary Gazette had referred to the work entitled London and Westminster
Improved, by John Gwynn. London, 1766, 4to., as having "pointed out almost all the designs
for the improvement of London which have been devised by the civil and military architects
of the present day."

In answer to the above, your correspondent will find two articles in the Literary Gazette on
this interesting subject; the first in No. 473., Feb. 11. 1826, in which it is mentioned that
Mr. Gwynn, founding himself in some degree upon the plan of Sir C. Wren, proposed

    "To carry a street from Piccadilly through Coventry Street,
    Sydney's Alley, Leicester Fields, Cranbourn Alley, and so to
    Long Acre, Queen Street, and Lincolns Inn Fields, and thus
    afford an easy access to Holborn; he also recommends the
    widening the Strand in its narrow parts," &c.

I need hardly notice that by the removal of Exeter Change, the alterations near Charing Cross,
and the more recent openings from Coventry Street, along the line suggested by Mr. Gwynn, his
designs have been so far carried out.

The second paper in the Literary Gazette was rather a long one, No. 532., March 31. 1827. In
it Mr. Gwynn's publication is analysed, and all the leading particulars bearing on the "old
novelties of our modern improvements" are brought to light.

The whole is worth your reprinting, and at your service, if you will send a copyist to the
Literary Gazette office to inspect the volume for 1827.

W.J., ED.

