The Long-Eared Owl is hardly tameable. The writer of this paragraph, when a boy, was the possessor,
for more than a year, of a very fine specimen. We called him Judge. He was a monster, and of
perfect plumage. Although he seemed to have some attachment to the children of the family who
fed him, he would not permit himself to be handled by them or by any one in the slightest.
Most of his time he spent in his cage, an immense affair, in which he was very comfortable.
Occasionally he had a day in the barn with the rats and mice.

The owl is of great usefulness to gardener, agriculturist, and landowner alike, for there is
not another bird of prey which is so great a destroyer of the enemies of vegetation.

THE OWL.

              We know not alway
              Who are kings by day,
    But the king of the night is the bold brown owl!

I wonder why the folks put my picture last in the book. It can't be because they don't like
me, for I'm sure I never bother them. I don't eat the farmer's corn like the crow, and no one
ever saw me quarrel with other birds.

Maybe it is because I can't sing. Well, there are lots of good people that can't sing, and
so there are lots of good birds that can't sing.

Did you ever see any other bird sit up as straight as I do? I couldn't sit up so straight if
I hadn't such long, sharp claws to hold on with.

My home is in the woods. Here we owls build our nests--most always in hollow trees.

During the day I stay in the nest or sit on a limb. I don't like day time for the light hurts
my eyes, but when it begins to grow dark then I like to stir around. All night long I am wide
awake and fly about getting food for my little hungry ones. They sleep most of the day and
it keeps me busy nearly all night to find them enough to eat.

I just finished my night's work when the man came to take my picture. It was getting light
and I told him to go to a large stump on the edge of the woods and I would sit for my picture.
So here I am. Don't you think I look wise? How do you like my large eyes? If I could smile
at you I would, but my face always looks sober. I have a great many cousins and if you really
like my picture, I'll have some of them talk to you next month. I don't think any of them have
such pretty feathers though. Just see if they have when they come.

Well, I must fly back to my perch in the old elm tree. Good-bye.

THE OWL.

    In the hollow tree, in the old gray tower,
      The spectral owl doth dwell;
    Dull, hated, despised in the sunshine hour,
      But at dusk he's abroad and well!
    Not a bird of the forest e'er mates with him;
      All mock him outright by day;
    But at night, when the woods grow still and dim,
      The boldest will shrink away!

          O! when the night falls, and roosts the fowl,
          Then, then, is the reign of the Horned Owl!

    And the owl hath a bride, who is fond and bold,
      And loveth the wood's deep gloom;
    And, with eyes like the shine of the moonstone cold,
      She awaiteth her ghastly groom.
    Not a feather she moves, not a carol she sings,
      As she waits in her tree so still,
    But when her heart heareth his flapping wings,
      She hoots out her welcome shrill!

          O! when the moon shines, and dogs do howl,
          Then, then, is the joy of the Horned Owl!

    Mourn not for the owl, nor his gloomy plight!
      The owl hath his share of good--
    If a prisoner he be in the broad daylight,
      He is lord in the dark greenwood!
    Nor lonely the bird, nor his ghastly mate,
      They are each unto each a pride;
    Thrice fonder, perhaps, since a strange, dark fate
      Hath rent them from all beside!

                     BRYAN W. PROCTER
                           (Barry Cornwall.)

       *       *       *       *       *

    THE
     Racycle
        NARROW TREAD

    THE VERDICT IS IN

      Please mention "BIRDS" when you write to advertisers.

TESTIMONIALS.

                           FRANKFORT, KY., February 3, 1897.
 W. J. BLACK, Vice-President,
                     Chicago, Ill.

Dear Sir: I have a copy of your magazine entitled "Birds," and beg to say that I consider it
one of the finest things on the subject that I have ever seen, and shall be pleased to recommend
it to county and city superintendents of the state.

                            Very respectfully,
                                    W. J. DAVIDSON,
                   State Superintendent Public Instruction.

       *       *       *

                      SAN FRANCISCO, CAL., January 27, 1897.
 W. J. BLACK, ESQ.,
           Chicago, Ill.

Dear Sir: I am very much obliged for the copy of "Birds" that has just come to hand. It should
be in the hands of every primary and grammar teacher. I send herewith copy of "List of San
Francisco Teachers."

                            Very respectfully,
                                       M. BABCOCK.

       *       *       *

                            LINCOLN, NEB., February 9, 1897.
 W. J. BLACK,
     Chicago, Ill.

Dear Sir: The first number of your magazine, "Birds," is upon my desk. I am highly pleased
with it. It will prove a very serviceable publication--one that strikes out along the right
lines. For the purpose intended, it has, in my opinion, no equal. It is clear, concise, and
admirably illustrated.

                            Very respectfully,
                                      W. R. JACKSON,
                   State Superintendent Public Instruction.

       *       *       *

                         NORTH LIMA, OHIO, February 1, 1897.
 MR. W. E. WATT,

Dear Sir: Sample copy of "Birds" received. All of the family delighted with it. We wish it
unbounded success. It will be an excellent supplement to "In Birdland" in the Ohio Teachers'
Reading Circle, and I venture Ohio will be to the front with a good subscription list. I enclose
list of teachers.

                            Very truly,
                               C. M. L. ALTDOERFFER,
                                  Township Superintendent.

       *       *       *

                                MILWAUKEE, January 30, 1897.
 NATURE STUDY PUBLISHING COMPANY,
             227 Dearborn Street, Chicago.

Gentlemen: I acknowledge with pleasure the receipt of your publication, "Birds," with accompanying
circulars. I consider it the best on the subject in existence. I have submitted the circulars
and publication to my teachers, who have nothing to say but praise in behalf of the monthly.

                            JULIUS TORNEY,
             Principal 2nd Dist.