Of the actors we met that night, but Miss Walker (Maire ni Shiubhlaigh) was with the Irish
Players on their American tour of 1911-12, and even she has not been continuously with them
since 1902. The amateurs had then but begun, under the direction of Mr. Fay, on the slow fashioning
of themselves into the finished folk-actors they proved themselves in America. But even this
acting, so little removed from that of amateurs at these rehearsals, had distinction, the distinction
of fidelity to life in "The Racing Lug," the distinction of possession by dream in "Deirdre";
and let it be remembered, too, that it was a rehearsal without costume, and that one had to
be carried away from the conventional dress of the Dublin streets, and had to be made to feel
that the characters in "The Racing Lug" were primitive fishermen, and the people of "Connla"
and "Deirdre" the people of Ireland's Homeric age.

Miss Maire T. Quinn, Mr. T. Dudley Digges, Mr. P.J. Kelly, with Miss Walker and the brothers
Fay,--Mr. W.G. Fay and Mr. Frank J. Fay,--were then the leading actors of the company. The
playwrights, too, took part in their own or their fellows' plays in the lesser rôles, Mr. Russell
sometimes playing the druid in his "Deirdre" and Mr. Colum carrying a spear or wearing a pea-jacket
as need was. One circumstance or another, politics or need, gradually lost the company every
one of these actors that took part in its first performances in 1902. There were comparatively
few changes, though, until 1904, the year in which Miss Horniman, "a generous English friend,"
took for them the old Mechanic Institute Theatre and, rebuilding it in part, turned it over
to the Irish National Dramatic Company for six years. Up to this time the actors had received
no pay, giving their services for love of country and of art, but with the more frequent performances
and their attendant rehearsals it became necessary to take a large part of the time of the
leading men and women, and then, of course, they had to be paid. Before the opening of the
Abbey Theatre, three of the chief actors, Miss Quinn and Mr. Digges and Mr. Kelly, came to
this country to appear in Irish plays in the Irish Section of the St. Louis Fair. The public
that gathered in St. Louis was not prepared for the new drama, being more used to the musical
play of the type Mr. Olcott has made familiar in America, or to the Bowery Irishman of the
Harrigan plays, or to the gross caricatures, Galwayed and ape-accoutred, of the before-curtain
interlude of the variety show. As a result the former National Players protested against the
policy of the Irish Section and returned to New York. Miss Walker was the principal actress
of the company after Miss Quinn's departure to America, and upon Miss Walker's withdrawal in
1905 the burden of the chief women's rôles fell upon Miss Allgood.

Mr. W.G. Fay and Mr. Frank J. Fay were still the leading men of the company, creating the principal
characters of all the plays of Synge and of those of Mr. Yeats and Lady Gregory that were produced
before 1908. Early in this year, as I have said, Mr. and Mrs. W.G. Fay and Mr. F.J. Fay left
the company, and, coming to America in the spring, played "The Rising of the Moon" and "A Pot
of Broth" in New York. They made, unfortunately, no great success in their appearances, as
their plays were not presented in bills devoted solely to Irish plays, but as curtain-raisers
to the usual conventional farce. Almost all the actors whom I have mentioned as leaving the
National Players eventually found their way into the conventional plays, but almost none of
them made successes there comparable in any degree to their successes in folk-drama or in plays
out of old Irish legend. Nor can it be said that actors trained in the dominant forms of present-day
English drama, even when so skilled as Mrs. Patrick Campbell, were wholly satisfying in their
assumption of rôles in the plays of the Renaissance. It was Miss Allgood, chief musician in
the London performances of Mr. Yeats's "Deirdre" in 1908, who won the greatest approval from
the London critics, and not Mrs. Campbell as Deirdre herself.

Miss Allgood had played principal parts with the Abbey Company from 1904 on. In 1906, her sister,
who plays under the name of Miss Maire O'Neill, came into the company, assuming the more romantic
rôles with a success as great as that of Miss Allgood in character parts and comedy. From 1906
they have shared the principal women's rôles, but, owing to Miss O'Neill's inability to come
to America in the fall of 1911, Miss McGee fell heir to many of her rôles. After the departure
of the Messrs. Fay, Mr. Sinclair, Mr. O'Donovan, and Mr. Kerrigan became the leading men. It
is not altogether accurate, however, to speak of any actor or actress of the company as leading
man or leading woman, for not only is one "a leading lady" one night, as was Miss McGee as
Pegeen Mike in "The Playboy of the Western World" on the American tour, and one of the village
girls in "The Well of the Saints" the next night, but the men and women alternate in the same
parts on different nights, as, for instance, on the American tour Cathleen ni Houlihan was
played now by Miss Allgood and now by Miss Walker.

The fact that few of the actors who have learned their art with the Irish National Dramatic
Society have achieved greatly in other drama is perhaps a proof that their powers are limited
to the folk-drama and the legendary drama that comprises almost the entire repertoire of the
company. Miss Allgood was, it is true, lent to Mr. Poel for the performances of "Measure for
Measure" in the spring of 1908, and won an unquestioned success as Isabella, but actors so
skilled as the Messrs. Fay have attained no notable success in other than Irish plays. During
the American tour of 1911-12 both Mr. Sinclair and Miss Allgood were much importuned by the
managers to accept American engagements, and it is hardly to be doubted but that both could
win success in conventional comedy. And yet one feels it was the part of wisdom as well as
of loyalty for them to withstand the lure.

The distinguishing characteristic of the art of the Abbey Players is naturalness. It is not
that their personalities happen to coincide with certain types of Irish character, but that
they know so well the types of the folk-plays, and even the characters who are not types that
appear in the folk-plays, that they are able to portray them to the life. The Abbey Players
have discarded most of the tricks of the stage, or perhaps it would be truer to say they do
not inherit the tricks of the stage or any traditional characterizations of parts. They are
taught to allow their demeanor and gesture and expression to rise out of the situation, to
"get up" their parts from their own ideas; and these ideas are interfered with only if they
run definitely counter to the ideas of stage-manager or author. The smallness of the Abbey
Theatre has saved them from the necessity of heightening effects that they may carry to the
farthest corners of a large house, a necessity that leads so often to over-emphasis by our
own actors. There are less than six hundred seats in the Abbey theatre (five hundred and sixty-two
by actual count), and it is so arranged that the words uttered on the stage carry easily without
emphasis all over the house.

