Into the Roman Empire, in the first three centuries of our era, Christianity gradually ate
its way. It originated among the Jews, to whom all representation of living things was hateful.
And it developed under the influence of Greek oriental mysticism, which had no kinship with
sculpture and painting; and so far as it had any expression in those arts worked in the direction
of that symbolism against which Greek art was a protest. Thus we could not expect any fresh
inspiration for art from early Christianity; on the contrary, Christianity would work upon
it as a blighting influence. If we examine the remains of Christian art in those early centuries,
in sarcophagus and mural painting, we find that it merely copied the contemporary pagan art,
only changing the subjects portrayed, and introducing a further development in the symbolic
interpretation of ordinary scenes.

Christianity offered almost no field for the exercise of Greek anthropomorphism. The latter
was closely bound up with polytheism and hero-worship. The Christian Apostles and Saints, who
took the place of the pagan Deities, were men who had lived on the earth and whose deeds belonged
not to mythology but to history, although at the time the line between history and mythology
was not clearly drawn, and history was largely diluted with myth. A few impersonations of nature,
such as river-gods, lingered on in the paintings of the Roman catacombs. And winged genii were
common there, whether cupids or cherubs it would be hard to say. But there was no realm into
which artistic fancy could stray, filling it with super-men and super-women. Angels might be
portrayed; but they all came from the Jewish angelology; and there was no artistic tradition
as to their types: it was only later that the types of Michael, Raphael, Gabriel, and others
were distinguished.

The second principle of Greek art, balance and symmetry, had almost disappeared in pagan art
in the Antonine age. The reliefs of triumphal arches and of sarcophagi are crowded with figures
inserted without order or method. Even the mural paintings of Pompeii have escaped from control;
and show no purposeful arrangement. Law and order have given place to individual fancy, unless
in cases where earlier schemes are adopted. And with artistic arrangement has disappeared all
attempt to idealize, to produce forms nobler and more beautiful than those seen every day.
The figure of Antinous is the latest in which we find any attempt to produce a type of ideal
beauty. Even the Virgin Mary and her Son are depicted without any attempt to render them beautiful.
Nor indeed does naturalism fare better than idealism. The representation of the human body
is no longer studied. The figures are clothed: and the clothing is purely conventional, while
the features of the landscape are far less carefully introduced than in Hellenistic Greek art.

In fact one feels that the artist had little interest in his art. Scenes from the Old and the
New Testament are the usual subjects. But the depiction is little more than picture-writing,
mere copies of traditional groups. The only thing regarded as of any interest is the meaning.
The ethical and spiritual point of view overlies and smothers any interest in the representation.

And this predominance of the didactic element over the sense of proportion, the love of beauty,
the appreciation of nature prevails more and more as Europe slowly moves towards the dark ages.
The lamps of Greek art burn more and more dimly. They are never wholly extinguished; for in
all ages there are born artists to whom they are the light of life; and in mediaeval carvings
one finds here and there a touch of humanism, most often in grotesque or satyric figures. We
must never forget that some of the later masterpieces of Greek work, such as the Column of
Trajan and the Arch of Beneventum, were always to be seen. And little as they were appreciated
by ordinary people, an artist here and there derived from them some appreciation of the beauty
of humanity.

Then in the thirteenth century the dry bones began to come together. The breath of fresh life
stirred Europe, or at least parts of Europe, such as North Italy, Southern Germany, Eastern
France. The magnificent Gothic Cathedrals rising in the north called forth the talent of the
painter and the sculptor for their adornment. A great Christian art arose, and in the thirteenth
and fourteenth centuries flourished widely. Certain qualities of high art it certainly had.
It was lighted by the lamp of fellowship. The sculpture was the work not of individuals, but
of guilds, groups of workers of the same style, and inspired by the same motives. It attained
to great beauty in decoration, in the adaptation to architectural purpose of the forms of plants
and flowers. Where it was most defective was in the rendering of the human form, whether nude
or draped, for in such matters the artists had no schooling to be compared with that of the Greeks.

When the full Renaissance came with the dispersion of the educated Greeks through Europe, there
was a conscious reawakening of the artistic influence of Greece, contemporaneously with the
revived interest in Greek literature and philosophy. A few great works of ancient sculpture,
the Laocoon, the Dying Gaul of the Capitol, the Apollo Belvedere were discovered; and collections
of ancient gems and coins were formed by many of the wealthy. We can judge from the life of
Benvenuto Cellini how profound was the effect produced by such discoveries. The great Italians
of the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries felt as if they had climbed out of darkness into light.
To rival works of Greek art was looked upon as the highest ambition which an artist could cherish.
Sculptors so great as Donatello and Michelangelo took the scanty remains of Greek masterpieces
as their models, and measured their attainments by the degree of success which they reached
in copying them. The lamps of Greek balance and symmetry, Greek idealism, and Greek naturalism
were rekindled, and the crowd of artists vied one with another in walking by their light.

We may mark four stages in the rediscovery of Greek sculpture. The first is the Italian Renaissance
already mentioned. The second originated in the visit of Winckelmann to Italy in 1755, and
the application by Goethe and Lessing of his discoveries to the judgement of contemporary art.
It tended greatly to the raising and purifying of the artistic taste of Europe. The splendid
promise of the Renaissance had degenerated into the mannerism and extravagance of Bernini and
his contemporaries. Winckelmann called it back to simplicity, to self-restraint, to ideality.
But before long this teaching also was perverted; and such sculptors as Thorwaldsen and Canova
were misled by the defects of the inferior examples of Greek sculpture, which were the only
ones accessible to Winckelmann, into a slavish copy of the antique or works of an artificial
grand style. Then came the third wave of revived Greek influence, when the sculptures of the
Parthenon found a home in London, and critics were able to observe how infinitely superior
the masterpieces of a really great age were to the copies of Roman times and the adaptations
of the Hellenistic age. When Haydon the painter first saw the Parthenon marbles he was immensely
impressed; but that which struck him most strongly was not the ideality, for which they have
since become proverbial, but the wonderful naturalism of much of their detail in contrast to
the grandiose conventions of his contemporaries. The fourth stage in our knowledge of Greek
sculpture comes from the very fruitful excavations on Greek soil, especially at Athens, Olympia,
and Delphi, which have shown us how widely varied is the range of the ancient sculptors, how
many their styles, how admirable their technique. This extension of our knowledge has not,
it is true, as yet much affected contemporary art, as art was affected by the teachings of
Winckelmann and the publishing of the marbles of the Parthenon. Until last year there was no
book in English setting forth the results of the excavations of Delphi; and there is even now
no book in English performing the same service for the excavations at Olympia. Sculptors are
so little educated in the history of their craft, that they do not easily learn from new sources
of knowledge. But by degrees, beyond doubt, the new views of Greek art will filter down to
them. A few recently discovered sculptures, such as the Charioteer of Delphi, the Hermes of
Praxiteles, the bronze head from Beneventum in the Louvre, the Demeter of Cnidus, have by their
overpowering charm affected artists and art. And most sculptors profess a great admiration
for Greek works, notably Rodin, who, although the tendency of his works is not in a classical
direction, yet uses the strongest language in praising the Greek masterpieces. But in general
the tendency of art towards extreme individualism and the search after novelty have more than
counteracted the somewhat shallow admiration of sculptors for what is antique.

X

At present religion and culture alike are struggling against the waves of barbarism reinvading.
It is not my business to speak here of the forces which are trying to crush religion among
us. But I may fitly conclude by sketching some of the tendencies against which culture based
upon that of Greece is our best antidote. If I have rightly set forth the principles of Greek
literature and art in past pages, the nature of their influence under present conditions will
be clear.

I must venture on a parallel which seems to me very suggestive, though some readers may regard
it as risky. There are two great standards set up in the past, to control the wayward fanaticisms
of men, and to keep them within the bounds of reason and good sense. The standard in religion
is set by the New Testament: the standard in art is set by Greece. As at the Renaissance the
peoples of Europe went back for their inspiration and their models to the literature and the
art of Hellas, so at the Reformation they, or at all events the Teutonic races, went back to
the early records of Christianity, appealing to them against the venality and corruption of
the dominant Church. And ever since, at intervals, there has arisen, alike in the field of
culture and in that of religion, an echo of the appeal to the classical past. It is to the
New Testament that Apostles like John Wesley and George Fox made their appeal, setting up in
opposition to the conventions and worldliness of the Church in their times the spirituality
and simplicity of the apostolic age, just as Goethe and Lessing turned men's minds from what
was contrary to reason and good taste in their surroundings to Greek beauty and simplicity.
And however some of the followers of Wesley and Fox may have gone beyond due bounds towards
fanaticism, yet in every branch of the Christian Society the influence of those modern prophets
has been renovating and purifying, just as the schools of critics which followed Goethe tended
greatly to increase among us sweetness and light.

In our schools and colleges, until quite lately, the religion of the New Testament and the
tradition of the Greek and Roman Classics have gone together, the one preserving us from superstition
and materialism in religion, the other making war upon the inherited barbarisms and brutalities
which we have from our not very distant ancestors. The spirit of anarchy in religion would
persuade us that there is no divine sanction for goodness and no eternal stamp on vice, that
morality is a matter of convention which every society and every nation has a right to invert
if it judges such inversion in the line of its interests. The spirit of anarchy in art proclaims
that all the works of nature are equally beautiful or equally ugly, that nothing which exists
is unfit to be represented in our galleries and public places, that so long as a picture or
a statue arouses a sentiment it does not matter whether the sentiment be one of delight and
aspiration or one of horror. If once the idea of beauty as the end to be aimed at be expelled
from art, art sinks like a stone to the bottom of the sea. Some people are ready to tolerate
any monstrosity in art, however remote from nature, however offensive to decency, however repugnant
to humanity. The whole artistic inheritance of the race from the day when men began to climb
out of barbarism is liable to be thrown away by an age which has unbounded confidence in its
own wisdom.

I should, however, be sorry to stop at this point, for I might leave on readers the impression
that I am in favour of the mere imitation of works of Greek art. That is by no means my view.
In the last century several sculptors, overpowered by the charm of the antique, produced statues
which closely followed ancient patterns, such as the Hope and the Hebe of Thorwaldsen, some
of the statues of Rauch and Schadow, and the tinted Venus of Gibson. Such works were necessarily
stillborn; they had not in them any breath of the life of a new age, any attempt to conform
to changed conditions. Very different was the following of the antique by Michelangelo. He
admired with enthusiasm such works of the Greek chisel as he knew; but he produced not dull
and academic reflections of them, but works of the most splendid originality and the greatest
charm. He imbibed not the letter but the spirit of Greek art; and even succeeded better than
most artists in combining that spirit with a breath of Christianity.

The parallel which I have drawn may be carried farther. A reversion to the letter of the New
Testament writers has been often attempted by considerable religious leaders of our time, especially
Tolstoi and the Quakers. They have gone back to the injunctions of the Sermon on the Mount,
and tried literally to abide by them. But it has become apparent to all but fanatics that such
procedure would be fatal to civil government and civilized life. It is the spirit not the letter
of the teaching of Jesus which is life-giving. In just the same way an acceptance of the mere
externals of Greek art would not help us at all; but a revival of its spirit would be a great
inspiration to modern artists. The lamps of Greek art will give light in any age. Greek idealism,
Greek balance and measure, Greek love of what is natural and healthful, Greek simplicity and
moderation are of the very essence of good art in all ages. We can no more revive the exact
conditions under which art arose than we can import into England the clear air, the bright
sun, the clear-cut shadows of the Greek landscape. But we can still look up to the philosophy,
the poetry, and the art of Greece as classical, as a revelation of what is most pleasing and
most enduring in human nature. And if we neglect them and reject them from the education of
our children, we shall destroy what has been ever since the Renaissance the source of pure
joy and refined feeling in the majority of cultured men; we shall make a great gap which material
prosperity, a deeper knowledge of the secrets of nature, the invention of fresh modes of amusement,
can never fill. And if we trust merely to the reflections of the Greek spirit in modern literature
and art, we shall be acting as the Roman Church in its darker ages has acted, in shutting away
from the people recourse to the primary documents of religion, and obliging them to be content
with such interpretations of those documents as the ruling hierarchy judged to be useful. We
must retain the right of appeal to our classical examples, whether in religion, in literature,
or in art. Arnold was right. The Bible, Homer, Shakespeare, Greek art remain the stars by which
we may direct our course over stormy seas.

P. GARDNER.

ARCHITECTURE

Nobody has ever disputed the beauty of Greek Architecture. We recognize the justice of a description
of the Parthenon as 'le suprême effort du génie à la poursuite du beau'; but the layman must
sometimes ask himself what does it mean? Where did it come from, where did it go to, why is
it thought so beautiful, how was it that this people relatively insignificant in power, in
territory, and in numbers, was able to attain to this astonishing supremacy in art? These are
questions not easily answered. The evidence is fragmentary and not always conclusive, the ruins
of a few temples and buildings, a technical treatise by a garrulous third-rate writer in the
first century A. D.,[125] the anecdotes of an indefatigable collector[126] a little later,
the notes of a traveller in the second century,[127] and the materials collected by the patient
research of scholars and archaeologists, pieced together on more or less ingenious hypotheses.
Indeed, a great part of what is written on Greek Architecture is simply hypothesis. There is
not much to go on, yet Greek Architecture (and by this I mean the architecture of the sixth
and fifth centuries B. C.) remains one of the great outstanding facts in the history of the
Architecture of the Western world, and the Art of the age of Pericles is the fountain-head
to which artists still return.

    [125] Vitruvius, De Architectura.

    [126] Pliny the Elder, Historia Naturalis, xxxvi.

    [127] Pausanias, Ἑλλαδος Περιηγησις {Hellados Periêgêsis}.

Where that art sprang from, and how it grew, is largely a matter of speculation. There have
been legends of civilizations wiped out in tremendous cataclysms that left no trace behind
them. Vague suggestions are made that the cradle of the race was in Asia. All we know for certain
is that the earliest civilizations of which actual historical evidence remains are those of
Chaldea and Egypt, and that the art of these countries reached a high degree of attainment
long before we come upon the earliest traces of art of any sort in Greece. That both these
countries contributed in varying degrees to the art of Greece is certain, but that is not the
whole of the story. As we shall see, another element comes into play, which made of that art
almost a new creation, differing in outlook and ideal from any art that preceded it, stamped
by the genius of a vigorous northern race with a character all its own. The art of the East
and the art of the West never really fused. There is a difference in kind between the joyous
vitality of pure Greek art, and the gloomy vision of Asia, with its craving for the vast and
terrible, its sombre imagination, its lack of humanity and indifference to the individual.

It is not, however, till far down in the progress of history that this differentiation asserts
itself. Greek art is relatively a late development. The Great Pyramid at Ghizeh was built some
2,000 years before a stone was laid of the masonry of Mycenae. The Hall of Columns of Karnak,
with its columns sixty feet high, was probably coeval with the Treasury of Atreus: in other
words, when the art of Greece and of the islands was scarcely out of the barbaric stage, a
wonderful art had been in existence across the Mediterranean from time immemorial. Both Egypt
and Chaldea attained a high degree of civilization long before the Dorians were ever heard
of. At some remote period the Egyptian influence penetrated to Crete and Cyprus, the islands
of the Aegean, and the mainland of Greece; and the intermediaries were the Phoenicians, that
enterprising race of merchant adventurers, whose home was in Syria, and whose fleets traversed
the Mediterranean from East to West. The Phoenicians were traders and not artists. In Egypt
they came into contact with a highly developed art, beyond their comprehension in its essential
features, yet including details which could easily be apprehended by their quick commercial
intelligence. Wherever they touched on their voyages, Cyprus, Crete, the southern islands of
the Aegean, the mainland of Greece, the south of Italy, Sicily, Carthage, the Balearic islands,
Spain in the far west, they probably carried with them, for trading purposes, minor articles
of Egyptian workmanship which may have supplied hints to the indigenous peoples. Where they
established settlements, they reproduced what they could recollect of the methods of Egyptian
architecture, possessing at second-hand a knowledge of technical methods in advance of anything
within the knowledge of the people among whom they settled. Rudimentary anticipations of the
Ionic volute are found in Phoenician capitals, vague reminiscences of what the traders had
seen in Egypt and elsewhere. Moreover, the Phoenicians, who possessed the skill of sailors
in the use of tackle, would have had little difficulty in handling large stones set dry in
more or less regular courses, which was a characteristic feature of Cretan and Mycenaean building.
It is too soon to describe the work as architecture. It is doubtful if the Phoenicians possessed
any aptitude for the arts. Their rôle was that of intermediaries only.

Obscure as was the part played by the Phoenicians in the early origins of art in Greece and
the islands, there was another channel through which Eastern influences came to bear on its
development, which is even more uncertain. To the west of Chaldea and north of Syria, dwelt
a race of which little is known, the Hittites. Carchemish, their capital, was on the upper
Euphrates, north-east of Antioch, and their power appears to have extended westward through
Asia Minor to the shores of the Aegean. Dr. Sayce says that in the thirteenth century B. C.
it extended from 'the banks of the Euphrates to the shores of the Aegean, including both the
cultured Semites of Syria and the rude barbarians of the Greek Seas', he even says that the
Hittites 'brought the civilization of the East to the barbarous tribes of the distant West'.
What actually remains of Hittite art hardly bears out this statement. When the Hittite power
was at its height, Minoan 'art' had long been practised in Crete, and according to the most
popular chronology, had already passed its prime and given way to the art of Mycenae and Tiryns.
The scanty evidence of Hittite art consists of bas-reliefs of figures and animals cut on the
face of rocks along the natural caravan routes through Asia Minor from East to West. This and
the evidence of seals and engraved gems show that Hittite art was derived first from Chaldea,
later from Egypt. It undoubtedly exercised some influence on the art of the early Greek settlers
on the eastern side of the Aegean, and gave it an Asiatic cast, which it never lost throughout
all its later developments. For the Greeks of Asia Minor never really understood the austere
ideal of Doric art. Ionian art crossed westward to Greece, but the Dorian never went east.
It was the art of a strong northern race, that found no place for itself among the softer peoples
of Asia Minor.

At this point we can take up the first rudimentary beginnings of Greek art. The discoveries
of the last forty years have proved the existence in Crete and Cyprus, Southern Greece, and
the islands of the Aegean, of an archaic art of obscure origin, of very great interest, and
of remarkable attainment in certain directions, long before the earliest beginnings of what
we mean when we speak of Greek architecture. So far as architecture is concerned, this archaic
art is of relatively minor importance. It plays a small part, if any, in subsequent developments,
and though enthusiastic explorers claim to find in it anticipations of the details of modern
domestic architecture, the evidence produced is unconvincing. Great movements in the arts always
owe some debt to the periods that have preceded them, but Minoan and Mycenaean art, at any
rate in regard to architecture, was rather the last word of a decaying civilization than the
first herald of the glorious art of Greece in the sixth and fifth centuries B. C. We are still
far back in remote ages, remote that is so far as Greek art is concerned, anywhere between
2000 and 1000 B. C. or even earlier,[128] back in the Minoan age of Crete with its rudimentary
architecture, and its relatively high excellence in the crafts, and in the age of Mycenae and
Tiryns, the age that produced the Lion Gate at Mycenae, and that strange half-barbaric work,
if I may be pardoned the term, the Treasury of Atreus. It is worth pausing to consider these
archaic buildings, not so much to show a relationship to later work (which scarcely existed),
as to call attention to the fact that the Minoan and Mycenaean builders were moving unconsciously
in a direction that would never have led to the column and lintel architecture of the seventh
and sixth centuries B. C. It might have led to some form of dome construction, it could never
have led to the Doric of the Sicilian temples. No stronger evidence of the genius of the Dorian
invaders could be produced than that, with this unpromising art in possession, they were yet
able in the course of three or four centuries to create Greek architecture. The design of the
Lion Gate is a strange jumble of ill-adjusted motives. It is set in a wall of great stones
roughly squared and laid dry. Two monolith jambs support a huge lintel, cambered in the middle
like the tie-beams of our sixteenth-century roofs. Above the lintel the courses are gathered
over, leaving between their lower faces and the top of the lintel a triangular space of a steep
pitch (about 60°), in which was inserted a frontispiece carved on a single stone representing
two lions standing up on either side of an archaic column supporting a fragment of a rudimentary
architrave.[129] The heraldic pose of the lions and the technique of their sculpture, so suggestive
of Assyrian reliefs with their splendid sense of muscular form and energy, are far ahead of
an architecture that is still barbaric, scarcely architecture at all. There is here nothing
to suggest the Doric of Paestum and Selinus, much to recall the megalithic buildings of Syria,
and the sculpture of the farther East.

    [128] Sir Arthur Evans has drawn up an ingenious chronology of Early
    Minoan (2800-2200 B. C.), Middle Minoan (2200-1700 B. C.), and Late
    Minoan (1700-1200 B. C.). The evidence is almost entirely that of
    pottery discovered on the site. The whole question of the relations
    of Minoan to Mycenaean art, and of this archaic art to the earlier
    civilizations of Egypt and Chaldea, is very obscure and uncertain.

    [129] The heraldic treatment of the lions is of Eastern origin. The
    Greeks had a tradition that the chieftains of Mycenae came from
    Lydia.

The Treasury of Atreus is still more remarkable, not only because it shows more skill in building,
but because its design is based on a structural motive which seems to have been wholly abandoned
by the successors of the Mycenaean builders. The Treasury of Atreus (or Tomb of Agamemnon)
was excavated in a hill, and consists of a long passage about 120 ft. by 21 ft. wide, with
retaining walls of megalithic masonry on either side, terminating in a great entrance doorway.
This doorway is flanked on either side by columns tapering downwards, and decorated with chevrons
in a manner very similar to Norman work of the eleventh century, and apparently intended solely
for ornament.[130] The entrance opened into a circular domed chamber about 48 ft. 6 in. in
diameter, 45 ft. 4 in. high, out of which opened another smaller chamber. The dome, in section,
is built on the curve of a parabola, formed with courses projecting over one another, and not
set out radial to the curve of the dome--in other words it is not a true dome or arch, but
a succession of corbels. The internal face of the dome is dressed down, and was covered with
ornament of some sort, whether metal rosettes, or enamelled terra-cotta, or wholly in metal,
possibly the famous gold of Mycenae, is not known. The whole of this chamber was covered in
with a mound of earth, in accordance with the primitive custom of concealing the chieftain's
grave. It is impossible to find, in this extremely interesting monument or in the domed chamber
of Orchomenos in Boeotia, any trace of future developments in Greek architecture. Both in intention
and in its psychological background it seems almost as remote from the Doric Temple as the
Great Pyramid itself. In point of fact architecture was still in a rudimentary stage. It has
been proved abundantly that Architecture comes late in the sequence of the Arts. People could
draw well, long before they could design. Among the cavemen, for example, there were admirable
draughtsmen, but they had to make their drawings on the sides of caves. That there existed
in the Minoan and Mycenaean ages skilful potters and metal-workers, is shown by the vases of
Knossos and the gold cups found at Vaphio near Sparta; that they built habitable buildings
and decorated them to the best of their ability is also proved, as, for example, the palace
of Tiryns, but it has not yet been shown that their builders reached the degree of skilled
design, at which building becomes architecture. Architecture had not yet found itself in Greece.

    [130] Portions of these columns are now in the British Museum.

Then somewhere about 1000 B. C. came the Dorian invasions, and the art of Crete and Mycenae
vanished into space--possibly the legend was right which said that the conquered people of
the mainland carried it away with them to Asia. Anyhow, the three or four centuries following
the Dorian invasions are a blank which future research may fill out for us, and so far as art
is concerned, there appears to have been a détente, during which the new race was settling
down to its conquest, finding itself, and assimilating something at any rate of the older civilization.
The survival of such buildings as the Treasury of Atreus show that the Dorians were not simple
barbarians, destroying all that came in their way. Even Sparta in its earlier days was not
a mere military machine. Discoveries made in 1906-9 suggest that from the ninth to the seventh
centuries B. C. Sparta had some sort of an art of its own showing traces of Asiatic influence
in its pottery--a little later Sparta concluded an alliance with Croesus, King of Lydia, and
Bathycles, an artist of Magnesia in Ionia, was treated with honour in Sparta. The Dorians were
something more than fighters, they seem to have possessed some sort of civilization, and to
have been endowed with a natural capacity for the arts, which after two or three centuries
of experiment will find its own splendid expression within very definite and original lines.
The legend of the return of the Heracleidae was to be justified by their later history. No
merely imitative race could have evolved the perfect manner of the great Doric temples from
the scraps of Egypt and the East, and the rudimentary buildings of Crete and Mycenae.

Greek architecture for the purpose of this study is Dorian architecture, and its elements are
simple. It was evolved in the design of their temples, and with the exception of their theatres
it was summed up in these temples. From the period during which Greek architecture was being
built up to its maturity, say from the seventh century B. C. to the completion of the Parthenon
in the fifth century B. C., the whole life of the Greek was coloured and dominated by his religion
and its observances; and his religion was not the sinister mystery of Egypt, but on the whole
a cheerful open-air Pantheism that gloried in the life and beauty of the visible world in which
he lived. He himself was content to live in a poor house, so long as he had his market-place,
his ceremonial theatre, and the glorious temples of his Gods. Moreover, to whatever depths
the Athenians may have sunk in the time of St. Paul, in the heroic days of Pericles they were
remarkable for constancy of purpose and the steadfastness of their ideals. They stood on the
ancient ways, and it never occurred to them to abandon the tradition of their fathers, their
business was to carry it forward to perfection. The result was that the architecture of their
temples proceeded on lines that long use had made sacrosanct; and its technique is summed up
in the history of two orders, the Doric and the Ionic.[131]

    [131] The order, I may say for the uninitiated, means the complete
    ordonnance of the column, the architrave resting immediately on its
    capital, the frieze and the cornice. It is the final expression of
    the simple device of the post and lintel, of the beam resting on the
    heads of two or more posts; and there is little doubt that in its
    ultimate origin, the Order is the translation into stone of the
    details of a rudimentary wooden construction.

Now, the order, its character, dimensions and disposition, with the wall of the Cella (or enclosed
shrine) within the colonnade, summed up the elements, the vocabulary, if one may so put it,
of Greek architecture; and we come here at the outset on a curious quality of the Greek genius,
and one that differentiates it from the Roman. The properties of wood and stone as materials
are clearly different, things can be done with the one which are impossible with the other;
but the Greeks either did not realize this or did not trouble their heads about it. They found
that the post and lintel was a simple means of building, and they adopted it as their permanent
method of construction. If the span became too wide, they thickened the posts (the columns
of Paestum are 7 ft. in diameter) and increased the strength of the beam (the architrave).
Hence the vast solidity of the Doric order of the temples of Sicily and Magna Graecia. The
Greek was incurious about construction qua construction. He found, in the column and the lintel,
means perfectly adequate to realize his ideal of high unalterable beauty, and he was content.
The Romans, who for a time were satisfied with these simple methods, became impatient of the
constructive limitation of the post and lintel. They wanted to cover in great spaces, and to
leave the floor unencumbered; and concentrating on this they arrived at the arch, the vault,
and the dome, and so became the greatest builders of the world. To them, the orders were a
mere appanage of decoration, which they never properly appreciated, of which they mistook the
intention, adopted the worst elements, and often enough made a gross misuse. The Greeks took
another line. They adopted the column and lintel once for all as the only possible method of
construction, and devoted all their labours to the incessant refinement of this type, eliminating
the unessential, arriving by constant selection at the most perfect expression of their purpose,
and their purpose was not that of the Roman and the modern architect, mainly utilitarian, it
was directed entirely to the aesthetic appeal, the appeal to the emotions through beauty of
line, of form, and in a less degree of colour. 'The whole fabric of Greek art goes to pieces
when it is brought into contact with a purely utilitarian nation like Rome.'[132]

    [132] Hellenistic Sculpture, by Guy Dickins, p. 85. The author,
    who wrote with something of the insight of the artist as well as the
    accurate knowledge of the scholar, died of wounds, on the Somme, in
    1916.

Of the two orders, the Doric and the Ionic, the Doric seems to me the purest embodiment of
the true Greek spirit, in its faultless form, and its austere restraint and rejection of the
unessential. It was, moreover, the order par excellence of the Greek temple of the mainland.
The Erechtheum was the only Ionic temple of first-rate importance in Greece, and the employment
of the Ionic order in Greece was confined to interiors and minor buildings. As for the Corinthian
order, the favourite order of the Romans, it was scarcely recognized by the Greeks. In all
their great temples, in Greece, in Sicily, and Magna Graecia, they used the Doric order.

How this order was arrived at we do not really know. Ingenious conjectures have been made as
to its origin in wooden construction, and though some of these conjectures are more probable
than others they leave us pretty well where we were in regard to the stages by which it reached
its final form. It has been suggested that the Doric column originated in the wooden post of
the earliest temples, such as are supposed to have existed in the Heraion at Olympia. The square
post would have its angles taken off, and become an octagon, and the further elimination of
the angles would gradually produce a form nearly circular in plan, in which the arrises of
the chamfered angles would remain, and this might easily suggest to artists so sensitive as
the Greeks, their further refinement and definition by a slight hollow between the arrises
which would constitute the flutings of the Doric column. Its derivations from the Minoan and
Mycenaean columns seems most improbable. There are two essential parts in the Doric column,
the shaft and the capital (the Greeks did not use any base for this order). The Minoan columns
taper downwards instead of upwards, an utterly unconstructional form, and though in the palace
of Knossos and at Tiryns columns of this shape appear to have been used to carry lintels, the
stone columns on either side of the entrance to the Treasury of Atreus at Mycenae were used
for decorative and not for structural purposes. On the other hand columns of great massiveness
tapering upwards had been used long before in Egypt; and though there is evidence against it,
it still seems probable that the suggestion of the shaft of the Doric column may have come
from Egypt. We first find it in Greece in the seventh century B. C. at the period when Psammetichus
I (671-617 B. C.) opened Egypt to Greek trade and settlement. The Greek colony of Naukratis
on the west side of the Nile delta was founded by Milesians about 650 B. C. and by the middle
of the sixth century B. C. definite trade relations were established between Naukratis and
the mainland of Greece. The Greek settlement at Daphnae on the eastern arm of the Nile appears
to have been founded at about the same time as Naukratis, in both cases with the sanction and
encouragement of the Egyptian king. The earliest Doric temples in Greece, Sicily, and Magna
Graecia date from the end of the seventh century and early part of the sixth century. The nearness
of date makes it probable that the shaft of the Doric order had its origin in the Egyptian
column seen by some quick-witted Greek when trading in Egypt. When we come to the capital of
the column, the rôles seem to be reversed, for we find nothing in Egyptian architecture to
suggest the echinus moulding under the square abacus of the Doric column; whereas the Mycenaean
column had a rudimentary capital which may have suggested the idea of the Doric capital. But
the notable thing about it is that when we first come across the Doric capital in Sicily and
Greece, it is already far in advance of anything that had gone before it in Greece, and it
is quite different from the columns of Egypt. In the Doric temple of Corinth (650-600 B. C.)
the columns have already reached the type form, the tapered shaft with its entasis or slight
convex curvature in outline, its massive solidity (the ratio is one of diameter to four and
a quarter of height), and the bold parabolic curve of the echinus moulding under the abacus
of its cap. In this form, the Doric column was an absolutely fresh note in architecture. Archaic
though they were, these columns at Corinth show that the Greeks were already on the track of
those refinements of form, those optical corrections and compensations, which differentiate
Greek architecture from that of any other race. The exaggeration in the entasis of the archaic
column disappears, its tapering was diminished, its height increased, and the overhang of the
capitals reduced, till in the Theseion (465 B. C.) and the Parthenon (450-438 B. C.) we reach
the final inimitable type. The column, which at Paestum was not much over four times the height
of its correct diameter, is now over five times, the great overhanging capitals are reduced
to reasonable dimensions, the depth of the entablature is diminished, the axis of the column
is slightly inclined inwards to give the impression of stability, the shafts have the slight
curve or 'entasis' just sufficiently marked to prevent the outline of the column looking incurved;
the lines of the stylobate, or continuous base, on which the columns stand, and the entablature
which they carry, have a slight rise toward the centre in order to correct the impression of
the lines sinking in the middle; the columns at the angles are thickened, because standing
free with the light all round them they would otherwise appear smaller than the columns standing
against the background of the building. Nothing was left to chance; every aspect of the building,
the relation of every part to the whole, and of the whole to its part, was studied profoundly,
so that there should be no failure in its perfect harmony. Except in Egyptian architecture,
and there to a much smaller extent, nothing like this had been done before. What the Greeks
did, was to formulate a rhythmical architecture, in which each part stood in a definite and
considered relation to the whole, so that even in their ruined state these Doric temples give
an irresistible impression of a great idea, a great architectural epic, in which each detail,
however beautiful, was subordinated to the unity of the conception as a whole. It is this abstract
quality which lifts Greek Doric so far above the ambitious art of later ages, and indeed above
all but the very finest work of any period of architecture.

Many attempts have been made to discover the secret of this wonderful perfection of proportion.
That the Greeks had a system of their own, that they worked to definite ratios of dimension
and number, and employed graphic methods of determining their proportions, such as the use
of triangles and the like to determine the limits of their designs, seems certain. But no contemporary
account of any such system remains; and all the explanations that are given are ex post facto,
made by theorists analysing existing buildings, not by architects designing new ones. Some
four or five hundred years later Vitruvius compiled a treatise on architecture, in which, following
the doctrines of the school of Alexandria, he expounded a Greek theory of proportion on the
basis of the human figure. Vitruvius is obscure, and does not seem to have been certain himself
whether the proportion of the parts of a design were to bear a relation to the whole, analogous
to that of members of a human body to the body as a whole, or whether the proportions of the
order were to be taken from the actual proportions of the human body; and he complicates the
position by reference to the 'perfect numbers' of the Greeks. But here again he was uncertain
whether the 'perfect number' was ten or six. After which, and having, in his reference to the
human figure as the canon of proportion, unwittingly set a trap for the scholars and artists
of the Renaissance, he drops the subject and digresses into a general classification of temples,
with formal rules for the placing and dimensions of columns, which have formed the staple of
treatises on classical architecture ever since. One should speak with gratitude of the labours
of Vitruvius, because, after all, his is the only technical treatise left us on the subject;
but he applied to the pure Greek temples a system evolved centuries later by critics and theorists;
he was thinking chiefly of Roman versions of Greek architecture, and he was more interested
in technical rules and precepts for the use of architects than in that abstract beauty which
was all the Greek cared for. No classification, however laborious, will reach the mystery of
Greek architecture. Its beauty is too subtle to be reduced to any formula.

The Doric order reigned supreme throughout the great period from the sixth till the end of
the fifth century B. C. It failed with the failure of the high ideals of Athens. Other forces
came into play to which it no longer responded, and later Greek critics even found fault with
the Doric order for certain 'mendosae et inconvenientes symmetriae';[133] but that order, the
true symbol of the sons of Heracles, was one of the most momentous contributions ever made
to the art of architecture. It was the keynote of Greek architecture throughout its finest
period. Later it was superseded by the Ionic order, and when Rome became paramount in the western
world, that, in its turn, yielded its place of pride to the Corinthian order, opulent, luxurious,
a little vulgar, a true register of the lowering of the sense and standard of beauty that followed
the downfall of Athens.

    [133] Vitruvius, iii. 1. The difficulty was, that if the triglyph
    was placed on the angle of the building (the practice of the Greeks)
    and the next triglyph was placed over the axis of the column, the
    metope (or panel) between these two triglyphs would be larger than
    the metopes between the triglyphs axial over the other columns. The
    Greeks solved it by reducing the width of the end intercolumniation,
    but later critics disliked this, and solved it by removing the end
    triglyph from the angle and placing it axial over the end column.

Meanwhile, on the other side of the Aegean, the Ionic order was reaching its perfect form through
a similar process of systematic thought on a type definitely adopted. The Greek colonies in
Asia Minor were of very early origin. Legend attributed their foundation to the earlier inhabitants
of Greece, driven out by the Dorians. By the sixth century B. C. the Greek colonies were well
established on the west and south-west coasts of Asia Minor, and had evolved their own characteristic
architectural idiom in the Ionic order and its column, more slender than the Doric, with its
moulded base and its strange characteristic capital, unsuitable from the constructional point
of view in stone or marble, yet ultimately attaining the exquisite beauty of line and modelling
of the capitals of the Erechtheion at Athens. Two things seem fairly certain as to the origin
of this capital; first, that it was derived from the wooden horizontal head-pieces fixed on
posts to reduce the bearing of the primitive wooden lintels; and, secondly, that the first
suggestion of the volute reached the Ionian Greeks from the East. A crude anticipation of the
volute is found in Phoenician work, and it also appears on a Hittite relief at Boghaz Keui
in the middle of Asia Minor. Its origin in either case was oriental, and we have here the other
motive in Greek architecture, Eastern, at any rate exotic, and, as compared with Doric, almost
alien to the true Greek genius. Yet this astonishing people gave it a form as far removed from
its barbarous originals, as the Doric capitals of the Parthenon from the capitals of the columns
of Mycenae, and when the Greeks of both sides of the Aegean drew together after the defeat
of the Persians, the Ionic order crossed the sea, and assumed a place of honour in the temples
of Greece, still, however, with rare exceptions, in subordination to the Doric order. In the
colonies in Asia Minor, the supremacy of the Ionic order had long been recognized. The Ionic
temple of Hera at Samos, 368 ft. long by 178 ft. wide, is supposed to have been built at the
end of the sixth or early in the fifth century B. C., and this was the forerunner of the great
fourth-century temples of Ionia, built when Architecture had changed its direction and Hellenistic
Art was beginning its adventurous career.

With these two orders as the terms and idioms of expression the Greeks built up the architecture
of their temples. Their plans were the simplest possible. The rudimentary type was a simple
chamber or cella, with a loggia open to the air except for two columns standing between the
two extremities of the side walls, which terminated in pilasters known as 'antae'.[134] The
next stage was to bring the colonnade forward,[135] stage number three repeated the column
at the other end of the building,[136] stage number four continued the colonnade along the
sides,[137] stage number five doubled the colonnade on all four sides,[138] and stage number
six retained the outer rows of columns but omitted the inner row along the sides, leaving a
wide passage-way all round the main building.[139] Vitruvius gives a further classification
by the spacing of columns which will be found in all the handbooks of classic architecture.
With minor variations in detail, these types remained constant for the temples of Greece and
Rome. The principal alterations occurred in the extension of the temple proper, at the expense
of the surrounding colonnade. In the Archaic temples, such as the older temples of Selinus
in Sicily (sixth century B. C.), the portico and colonnade occupy three-quarters of the site.
In the temple of Hephaestus (Theseion) at Athens (fifth century B. C.) the cella occupies only
a little more than half the total area, and in the Parthenon, built some twenty years later,
the size of the cella is still further increased. Most of these temples were covered in. Hypaethral
temples, in which the cella was open to the sky, are mentioned by Vitruvius, and it is probable
that some of the larger ones at any rate were partly open to the sky. But how the openings
were arranged is almost entirely a matter of conjecture. The roof used was of a very flat pitch,
one of height to four of base, later it was even flatter, and this dictated the slope of the
pediments. This roof covered the whole of the building, that is, both the cella and the colonnades
on either side of it, and as the Greeks were ignorant of the principle of the triangulated
truss built up of beams in compression and tension, they were at a loss to know how to carry
their roof without pushing out their walls. Hence the great solidity of their buildings, and
the rather clumsy expedient of the colonnades in the interiors of temples which appear to have
been the only means they could think of to carry the roof. One has to bear it in mind in thinking
of Greek architecture, that the Greeks were not constructors in the sense that the Romans were;
they built well, and the best of their masonry was extraordinarily skilful--only by unusual
skill in the cutting and setting of stone could they have carried out the delicate curves in
the columns and other parts of their buildings--but construction, in the sense of the invention
of new methods to meet difficult conditions, did not interest the Greek, and one cannot help
thinking that the Greeks may have been more successful with the outside of their buildings
than with the inside. It seems clear that they devoted most of their attention to the external
elevations. It is not really known for certain how they lit their temples, though of course
all sorts of suggestions of top-lighting have been made. It is possible that in some cases
they were lit only from the principal entrance, and it is certain that the Greek did not want
for the interior of his temple any such floods of light as are necessary under our northern
skies. In the first place, he enjoyed a most brilliant and penetrating light, so that within
his colonnades reflected light was amply sufficient to show the friezes and other ornaments,
and he did not hesitate to use strong primary colours to heighten and explain their effect,
wherever he found it necessary. In the second place, within the shrine itself, other considerations
came into play. A certain luminous atmosphere, rather than positive light was what was aimed
at, and the deep shadows of these internal colonnades might have helped this effect, adding
to the mystery of the figure of the God.

    [134] Vitruvius gives this as the 'aedes in antis'.

    [135] Pro-style (colonnade in front).

    [136] Amphipro-style (colonnade at both ends).

    [137] Peripteral (single colonnade all round).

    [138] Dipteral (double colonnade all round).

    [139] Pseudo-dipteral (inner row of columns omitted).

This, too, may be the explanation of what must strike an architect as an anomaly of design,
the Greek habit of placing enormous figures in the interior of their temples. The Greek, in
his own way, was a very religious man. In his temple, he was doing his utmost to set forth
the majesty of his God, and if it was necessary for this purpose he was even prepared to sacrifice
his principles as an artist, to ignore the scale of his interior and the rhythmic harmony of
his design, by the introduction of gigantic figures. The eye judges by what it knows, and the
readiest way of arriving at some idea of the size of a building or a monument is by relating
it to the normal size of the human figure. Vitruvius, in his confused way, suggested that the
human figure was the canon and standard of architectural design, but how is it possible to
determine the scale of a building which contained a figure at least six times the size of a
man, reaching from the floor to the roof? The chryselephantine figure of Zeus at Olympia, made
by Pheidias, is supposed to have been some thirty-five feet high, and to have reached nearly
to the roof, passing the double tier of columns and the gallery above the aisles of the cella.
Moreover, this god was represented as seated on his throne, so that by no possibility could
it have been in scale with the building so far as the architecture was concerned. Even the
gigantic temple of Zeus at Agrigentum with its external columns 61 ft. 9 in. in height, and
large enough for a man to stand within one of the flutings of the columns, could hardly have
stood up to figures on such a scale as this. Such a violent contrast in scale broke the principle
of συμμετρια {symmetria}, that strict relation of the part to the whole which the Greek artists
maintained elsewhere with scrupulous care. Artists with such a consummate sense of proportion
as the Greeks possessed would hardly have made a mistake here, and the conclusion one comes
to is that where their religion was in question, everything had to give way. Indeed, one can
imagine the tremendous effect of this colossal figure seen dimly in the half-light of the cella,
filling the whole temple with its presence. The same anomaly in scale occurred in the Akropolis
at Athens, where the vast figure of Athene Promachos must have reduced the beautiful Caryatides
of the Erechtheum to insignificance. M. Choisy makes a gallant effort to show that this want
of relationship in scale, and also in the siting of the temples, was deliberate and considered.
As a fact, the general rule that seems to have been observed in the time of Pericles was that
new temples should always be built on the site of the older ones,[140] but axis lines were
neglected, and even the masses of the Propylaea, beautiful building as it must have been, did
not balance. The Akropolis was just a collection of unrelated buildings, and in the great Temenos
of Delphi the various monuments were all anyhow.[141] The Sacred Way meandered about like an
S, and the only method it observed was to clear the various treasuries and shrines which appear
to have been scattered about within the enclosure, with a disregard of each other little less
than brutal--a rather suggestive symbol of the internecine rivalry of the small Greek states.
At Delphi, also, there was a huge figure of Apollo Sitalkas said to have been seventeen metres
high, which must have been hopelessly out of scale. The fact was that Greek architects of the
fifth century had not yet arrived at the conception of the city as a whole. They had an admirable
eye for a site, for example, the position of the Parthenon itself, and the temple of Hera Lacinia
at Agrigentum placed high above the sea, but it is unhistorical to invest even the architects
of the Parthenon and the Propylaea with a knowledge and outlook which was not thought of till
a hundred years later. Even the Greek architects and sculptors of the fifth century B. C. were
not omniscient, yet within their limits, in their mastery of what they set themselves to do,
the artists of the age of Pericles remain unapproachable, and theirs was the Golden Age of
Architecture. They had fixed for all time essential elements of the art, and had set up a standard
of attainment in pure form which no subsequent architecture has ever been able to reach.

    [140] The Erechtheum was an exception.

    [141] See Delphi, by Dr. Frederick Poulsen, p. 52. It is suggested
    that the Sacred Way was in existence before the shrines were built,
    and that its wanderings were necessitated by the gradients of the
    hillside. No sort of attempt, however, seems to have been made to
    correct this, or to treat it as an element of design.

The fall of Athens closed this splendid chapter, but Greek architecture was by no means done
with. The Silver Age, the Hellenistic art that followed, is of intense interest. With the rise
of the Macedonian monarchy the stage of history shifted from the mainland to the Ionian colonies
on the coast of Asia Minor. Cities such as Ephesus and Miletus became immensely prosperous,
Mausolus of Halicarnassus, the Attalids of Pergamon, possessed wealth that would have been
unimaginable to the Greeks of Marathon. The City State, fighting desperately for its existence,
inspired by high ideals of patriotism and religion, was a thing of the past. These Greeks of
Ionia were well content to enjoy the comfort and prosperity of a settled civilization without
having to fight for it; and the whole atmosphere of their existence must have been different
from the strenuous life of Greece in the fifth century. Moreover, the Ionian Greek, influenced,
even if subconsciously, by the spirit of Asia, was by temperament unable to maintain the intellectual
level of the Doric architecture of the mainland; and a difference appears in the whole orientation
of art, in sculpture perhaps even more than in architecture. The history of Hellenistic art
has yet to be written. It has been described as decadent, and it was undoubtedly responsible
for some very poor stuff, but it also produced the 'Victory' of Samothrace, one of the finest
things ever done in sculpture, and some very remarkable developments in architecture. It is
not to be judged by the standards of the art that preceded it. The Ionian Greek of the fourth
and third centuries B. C. broke away from the tradition of the mainland, a tradition always
rather alien to his instincts. His interest lay less in a somewhat impersonal religion than
in the assertion of his own individuality. He did not understand the lofty patriotism, and
the high ideal of abstract beauty that had inspired Pericles and his artists in the Akropolis;
indeed, there is a curiously modern feeling about much of his work, which became more marked
as he came under the dominance of Rome. The individualism, the realism, the revivalism, and
the commercialism of modern art, were all anticipated by the Hellenistic artists of Ionia,
of Rhodes, of Alexandria, and of Athens itself in the Roman period. Civilization was becoming
more complex, and one finds this reflected in Hellenistic art, at once more florid than the
Doric of the fourth century, yet also more skilful in its handling of complicated problems
of planning and design. No one wanted archaic simplicity when the wealth of Asia was flowing
into the treasuries of the Ionian states, and the expression of this opulent ease is found
in their magnificent temples, such as the third temple of Artemis at Ephesus, of which the
outer colonnade measured 342 ft. 6 in. by 163 ft. 9 in., or the vast temple of Apollo Didymaeus
at Miletus, 165 ft. wide by 360 ft. long out to out of the colonnades; or the amazing monument
of Mausolus of Caria at Halicarnassus, or the great altar of Pergamon. Fragments of the columns
of the Temple of Artemis, now in the British Museum, tell of its size and richness, they also
give the first hint of the downfall of art and civilization which was to follow centuries later.
The Greeks of the great period had kept the structural parts of their building free of ornament.
It would never have occurred to them to interfere with the lines of the column in any way that
would contradict its purpose; but the Greek architects of Ephesus not only placed their columns
on pedestals (making them so far less stable in appearance), but they adorned the lower part
of their Ionic columns with figures, of admirable execution, but perfectly inappropriate in
the position they occupy. One cannot imagine Pheidias making a mistake such as this. Splendid
in execution as Hellenistic sculpture often was, it won its place at the expense of architecture;
one looks in vain for that selection and restraint which give its undying distinction to the
earlier work.

The Greeks of the fifth century realized that architecture is an art with a definite purpose
other than that of a mere vehicle for sculpture, and that it makes its aesthetic appeal by
its own inherent qualities of rhythm, and proportion, spacing, mass, and outline. Though they
used sculpture and colour to heighten and intensify the effect of their architecture, they
saw very clearly the function of the arts in relation to each other, and kept their sculpture
and their colour in strict relation to the aesthetic purpose of their architecture. It is a
point on which later architects went lamentably astray. A great deal of early Renaissance work
is mere ornamentation of buildings, indeed in buildings such as the Certosa of Pavia the architecture
has almost ceased to exist; and most of the bad architecture of the last fifty years is due
to the deplorable fallacy that ornament is architecture. The columns of Ephesus, the sculpture
of the altar of Pergamon, brilliant as they were in technical accomplishment, were the first
hint of that decline which was in time to undermine the whole fabric of the Arts. Architecture
was deposed from its high intellectual dominance. It tended more and more to become a conventional
affair, and it was an easy transition from the exuberance of Hellenistic art to the point-blank
vulgarity of Roman ornamental architecture.

It was, however, inevitable that the fine simplicity of Periclean art should vanish with its
ideals, and one finds a certain compensation in the extension of the range and outlook of architecture,
which we owe to the Hellenistic architects of the fourth and succeeding centuries B. C. So
far as perfection of form was concerned, it was impossible to carry the art beyond the stage
to which Ictinus and Callicrates had brought it; but there still remained something, and something
very important, to be done. Axial planning, the consideration of the relation of building to
building, seem to have been outside the consciousness of Greeks of the fifth century, and each
building was treated as an unrelated unit. But the inconvenience of this, its loss of opportunity,
and the necessity of order and method, must have become apparent, as civilization became more
complex and more exacting. By the end of the fourth century B. C. the tradition of architectural
technique was firmly established, and architects were able to turn their attention to problems
of large planning, and these they seem to have handled with extraordinary skill. So far, what
had been done in this direction had been due to religious inspiration, as in the processional
ways leading to the Egyptian temples or the avenue of figures at Branchidae. What the Hellenistic
architects did was to think out consecutive schemes of city planning, in which the dominant
motive of arrangement was artistic. They had learnt to treat the temples, the public buildings,
the open spaces and approaches, as the elements of one harmonious composition, in which the
utmost use was made of the natural opportunities of the site. At Ephesus, for example, there
is supposed to have existed a consecutive scheme, larger than anything of the kind carried
out even in France in the eighteenth century, though the evidence, it should be noted, is largely
conjectural. As presented by sanguine and enthusiastic restorers the scheme was magnificent.
Next the port, and facing it on one side, was the Arsenal, a regular building opening on to
a court surrounded by a colonnade, which again opened on to the great 'Place', a square enclosure
some 850 ft. wide north and south, by 650 ft. east and west,[142] surrounded by a colonnade
on all four sides, with exhedrae, or semicircular recesses. In the centre of this Place was
an oblong water-piece, about 300 ft. by 200 ft., and on the farther side, opposite the Arsenal
buildings, were the Senate House and other public buildings; and behind these and to the right
and left of them the Theatre and the Stadium, partly excavated in Mount Coressus. The Arsenal,
the great Place with its water-piece, and the public buildings, were laid out on an axis line,
and on a regular rectangulated plan.

    [142] The Place Vendôme measures 450 ft. × 420 ft.; Grosvenor Square
    about 650 × 530; and Lincoln's Inn Fields about 800 × 630, measured
    from wall to wall of buildings.

A scheme such as this (if it is possible to accept a conjectural restoration), thought out
in all its bearings, meant a real advance in the range of architecture. It is useless to look
for the faultless beauty of the fifth century, but the resourcefulness and skill of the Hellenistic
architects gave a new meaning to the art; and indeed they might almost be said to have established
the first stage in the development of its modern practice. It was from these able Hellenistic
architects that the Romans learnt the monumental planning of their cities, and for centuries
the architects most frequently employed were Greeks of Asia Minor. At this point, Hellenistic
architecture merges into Roman, and loses its distinctive character. Through Roman it passes
on to modern architecture, and so in a sense the chain is complete; but between this later
art and pure Greek architecture there is a great gulf fixed, differences not only of technique
but of outlook, of ideal, and of temperament. The mighty Doric of Paestum, Selinus, and Segesta,
the Theseion and the Parthenon, remains for all time the perfect expression of the soul of
ancient Greece.

It is one of the ironies of history that when in the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries scholars
and artists awoke to the fact that there had been a great architecture in the past they should
have known of no other version of it but the Roman. What splendid developments might have followed
if the finer spirits of the Renaissance, Alberti, Bramante, or Peruzzi, had founded their theories
of architecture on the temples of Sicily and Magna Graecia, instead of on the debased examples
of Imperial Rome! They, at least, would have caught a glimpse of the beauty of abstract form
and perfect harmony, the secret of which seems to have been revealed to the Greeks alone among
the peoples of the world--and to them for only a transient period of their history. Unfortunately,
when Greek architecture was discovered in the second half of the eighteenth century, it became
the shibboleth of the 'virtuosi'. The national traditions, both of France and England, were
lost, Greek architecture became the fashion, and the misguided enthusiasm of pedants and amateurs
insisted on literal reproductions which completed the extinction of architecture as a vernacular
art, and replaced it by the series of revivalisms from which it has suffered for the last one
hundred and fifty years. Conscious and deliberate tinkering with the art of architecture ended
by destroying it.

We can never hope to revive Greek architecture, nor should we attempt to do so. There was once
a well-known Scotch architect who held that the column and the lintel was the only permissible
form of construction, and with this limitation and ill-selected Greek details he produced some
fantastically ugly buildings. Following a similar line of thought a famous critic of the last
century condemned methods of construction not sanctioned by the Old Testament. Both were wide
of the mark; because, above and beyond all technical details of architecture is the spirit
in which it is approached, the intellectual outlook of the artist on his art, and this may
express itself in widely differing forms. In Greek architecture of the Golden period, that
outlook was definite and distinctive, and it was one that has a very urgent lesson for us to-day.
The aim and ideal of the Greek was beauty of form, and this beauty, which he sought in the
first instance as the expression of his religion, ultimately became almost a religion in itself.
To the realization of this ideal he devoted all his powers, sparing himself no pains in chastening
his work till it had attained the utmost perfection possible. He merged himself in this work,
without thought of the expression of himself in his vision of a divine and immutable beauty.
It hardly occurred to him that his individual emotions were worth preserving. (In the sculpture
of the great period the expression of the face is usually one of unruffled calm.) Although
religious emotion was the source and inspiration of his work, his work was impersonal. He was
aloof from that feverish anxiety for self-revelation which has made much modern art so interesting
pathologically, and so detestable otherwise. Nor again had he anything of the virtuoso about
him. To him technique was not an end in itself. In Hellenistic art it became so, but not in
the Golden Age. Indeed, he was sometimes almost careless of exact modelling, and in architecture
he did not use the order as a mere exhibition of scholarship. In his search for beautiful form,
he stood upon the ancient ways, patient and serene, moving steadily to his appointed end. 'Ainsi
procède le génie grec, moins soucieux du nouveau que du mieux, il reporte vers l'épuration
des formes l'activité que d'autres dépensent en innovations souvent stériles, jusqu'à ce qu'enfin
il atteigne l'exquise mesure dans les efforts, et dans les expressions l'absolue justesse.'[143]
There have been rare periods since, when Architecture has moved with the same calm unhesitating
purpose, Gothic architecture, for example, in the twelfth and thirteenth centuries, and certain
phases of eighteenth-century architecture in France and England, when tradition was still active
and vital, and artists were content to let well alone.

    [143] Choisy, History of Architecture, vol. i, p. 298.

Modern conditions seem to be wholly against the Greek standpoint in art. The Arts are in the
melting-pot, the old standards of attainment are trampled under foot, and the prophets prophesy
falsely. Quite lately we were asked to find our inspiration in the fetishes of the Gold Coast,
and if the aim of the artist is to outstrip his brethren in brutality, the advice is sound.
A recent critic justified the antics of certain artists by the necessity they were under of
advertising themselves. That, no doubt, is the readiest way to immediate success. But the question
for the critic is, not the personal advancement of the artist but the value of his work; and
one would ask if any good work at any period in the history of art has been inspired by this
ambition to shout louder than one's neighbours. Certainly, the standpoint of the Greek was
the exact opposite. He did not seek advertisement and notoriety. He was happy with his inner
vision of beauty, and intent only on its realization. He had not the smallest desire to shock
or startle any one. There are occasions when shock tactics are necessary, but they are not
necessary every day in the week, nor is it necessary to make a clean sweep of the past before
one sets to work in one's own little corner of art.

What is wanted in modern art is some consciousness of this old Greek spirit, some recognition
of its value. The Greeks of the age of Pericles wanted neither revivalism nor revolution; they
moved forward, without haste or anxiety, on traditional lines, and they were able to do so
because their art was so interwoven with their life that, in the plastic arts, they could no
more have changed their methods of expression than they could have changed their manner of
speech. That high outlook on life is lost and hardly to be recovered under modern conditions
of social life and political government. It was perhaps only possible under the true democracy
of the small Greek city state, when every citizen took his share in the ordered life of the
community. Yet the Greek ideal remains. In our fitful fever of honest intention and wrong judgement,
high endeavour and point-blank commercialism, Greek art, the art of Pheidias and Ictinus, is
still the wise mother to whom we must return. The lesson of the Parthenon is the lesson of
a steadfast vision of beauty, held high above individual effort and failure, realizing itself
not in complex detail or calculated eccentricity, but in a serene and exquisite simplicity
of form. It teaches us that in the arts there are no short cuts, and that anarchy, the destruction
of what has been won for us in the past, is not advance but the straight road to the bottomless
pit of barbarism. Instead of repudiating the work of his fathers, the Greek carried it on to
its perfection, and built his palace of art on a sure foundation because he turned neither
to the right hand nor to the left, but steadily set his face towards the light.

REGINALD BLOMFIELD.

  +--------------------------------------------------------------+
  | Transcriber's Notes and Errata                               |
  |                                                              |
  | Greek text is followed by the transliterated version in      |
  | braces.                                                      |
  |                                                              |
  | The following typographical errors have been corrected.      |
  |                                                              |
  |     Error      Correction                                    |
  |     back       black                                         |
  |     stedfast   steadfast                                     |
  |                                                              |
  | The following words are found in hyphenated and unhyphenated |
  | forms in the text. The numbers of instances are given in     |
  | parentheses.                                                 |
  |                                                              |
  |     cuttle-fish (2)      cuttlefish (1)                      |
  |     fresh-water (1)      freshwater (1)                      |
  |     pre-occupation (4)   preoccupation (1)                   |
  |                          preoccupations (1)                  |
  |     re-arranging (1)     rearranging (1)                     |
  |     re-discovery (2)     rediscovery (3)                     |
  |     super-men (1)        supermen (1)                        |
  |     super-women (1)      superwomen (1)                      |
  |     text-book (5)        textbook (2)                        |
  |     text-books (2)       textbooks (3)                       |
  +--------------------------------------------------------------+