Fearing that she might discover our vulnerable "heel of Achilles" we had to take all chances.
We lashed down the safety valves, heaped quick-burning combustibles into the already raging
fires, and brought the boilers to a pressure that would have been unsafe under ordinary circumstances.
The propeller churned the mud and water furiously, but the ship did not stir. We piled on oiled
cotton waste, splints of wood, anything that would burn faster than coal. It seemed impossible
that the boilers could stand the pressure we were crowding upon them. Just as we were beginning
to despair there was a perceptible movement, and the Merrimac slowly dragged herself off the
shoal by main strength. We were saved.

Before our adversary saw that we were again afloat we made a dash for her, catching her quite
unprepared, and tried to ram her, but our commander was dubious about the result of a collision
without our iron-shod beak, and gave the signal to reverse the engines long before we reached
the Monitor. As a result I did not feel the slightest shock down in the engine-room, though
we struck her fairly enough.

The carpenter reported that the effect was to spring a leak forward. Lieutenant Jones sent
for me and asked me about it.

"It is impossible we can be making much water," I replied, "for the skin of the vessel is plainly
visible in the crank-pits."

A second time he sent for me and asked if we were making any water in the engine-room.

"With the two large Worthington pumps, besides the bilge injections, we could keep her afloat
for hours, even with a ten-inch shell in her hull," I assured him, repeating that there was
no water in the engine and boiler rooms.

We glided past, leaving the Monitor unscathed, but got between her and the Minnesota and opened
fire on the latter. The Monitor gallantly rushed to her rescue, passing so close under our
submerged stern that she almost snapped off our propeller. As she was passing, so near that
we could have leaped aboard her, Lieutenant Wood trained the stern-gun on her when she was
only twenty yards from its muzzle and delivered a rifle-pointed shell which dislodged the iron
logs sheltering the Monitor's conning-tower, carrying away the steering-gear and signal apparatus,
and blinding Captain Worden. It was a mistake to place the conning-tower so far from the turret
and the vitals of the ship. Since that time it has been located over the turret. The Monitor's
turret was a death-trap. It was only twenty feet in diameter, and every shot knocked off bolt-heads
and sent them flying against the gunners. If one of them barely touched the side of the turret
he would be stunned and momentarily paralyzed. Lieutenant Greene had been taken below in a
dazed condition and never fully recovered from the effects. One of the port shutters had been
jammed, putting a gun out of commission, and there was nothing for the Monitor to do but to
retreat and leave the Minnesota to her fate.

Captain Van Brunt, of the latter vessel, thought he was now doomed and was preparing to fire
his ship when he saw the Merrimac also withdrawing toward Norfolk.

It was at this juncture that Lieutenant Jones had sent for me and said: "The pilots will not
place us nearer to the Minnesota, and we cannot afford to run the risk of getting aground again.
I'm going to haul off under the guns of Sewall's Point and renew the attack on the rise of
the tide. Bank your fires and make any necessary adjustments to the machinery, but be prepared
to start up again later in the afternoon."

I went below to comply with his instructions, and later was astonished to hear cheering. Rushing
on deck, I found we were passing Craney Island on our way to Norfolk, and were being cheered
by the soldiers of the battery.

Our captain had consulted with some of his lieutenants. He explained afterward that as the
Monitor had proved herself so formidable an adversary he had thought best to get a supply of
solid shot, have the prow replaced, the port shutters put on, the armor belt extended below
water, and the guns whose muzzles had been shot away replaced, and then renew the engagement
with every chance of victory. I remember feeling as though a wet blanket had been thrown over
me. His reasoning was doubtless good, but it ignored the moral effect of leaving the Roads
without forcing the Minnesota to surrender.

As the Merrimac passed up the river, trailing the ensign of the Congress under the stars and
bars, she received a tremendous ovation from the crowds that lined the shores, while hundreds
of small boats, gay with flags and bunting, converted our course into a triumphal procession.

We went into dry-dock that very afternoon, and in about three weeks were ready to renew the
battle upon more advantageous terms, but the Monitor, though reinforced by two other ironclads,
the Galena and the Naugatuck, and every available vessel of the United States navy, was under
orders from Washington to refuse our challenge and bottle us up in the Roads. This strategy
filled us with rage and dismay, but it proved very effective.

Our new commander, Commodore Josiah Tatnall, was burning to distinguish himself, but he was
under orders not to risk the destruction or capture of the Merrimac by leaving the Roads, as
General Huger's division at Norfolk would then be at the mercy of the Federal fleet. Week after
week was passing and with it his golden opportunity. At last we went to Richmond and pressed
a plan for a sortie upon the President. He returned one afternoon and ordered every one aboard.
That night we slipped down the Roads and were soon passing Fort Monroe on our way out into
the Chesapeake.

Presently our army signal officer began waving his lantern communicating with our distant batteries,
and then told the result to Officer Jones, who reported to Tatnall. "We have been ordered to
return, sir," he said.

Tatnall was viewing the dim outlines of the fort through his glass and pretended not to hear.

"The order is peremptory," repeated Jones.

Tatnall hesitated. He was of half a mind to disobey. "Old Huger has outwitted me," he muttered.
"Do what you please. I leave you in command. I'm going to bed," and he went below in a high
dudgeon. Tatnall was a striking-looking man, standing over six feet, with florid complexion,
deep-sunken blue eyes, and a protruding under lip. That he did not have a chance to fight was
no fault of his.

Our life on board for the weeks that followed was far from comfortable. We were within sight
of the enemy, and at every movement of the opposing fleet it was "clear away for action." Steam
was kept up continually. Our cabins were without air ports and no ray of light even penetrated
the ward-rooms. There was nowhere to walk but on the upper grating--a modern prison is far
more comfortable. Sometimes the sailors waded on the submerged deck, giving rise to the superstition
among the darkies that they were the crew of the "debble ship" with power to walk on the water.

Norfolk was now being evacuated and we were covering Huger's retreat. When this was effected
we were to receive the signal and to make our own way up the James. Norfolk was in Federal
hands, and Huger had disappeared without signaling us, when our pilots informed us that Harrison's
Bar, which we must cross, drew only eighteen feet of water. Under their advice, on the night
of May 11th we lightened ship by throwing overboard all our coal and ballast, thus raising
our unprotected decks above water. At last all was ready--and then we found that the wind which
had been blowing down-stream all day had swept the water off the bar. When morning dawned the
Federal fleet must discover our defenseless condition, and defeat and capture were certain,
for we were now no longer an ironclad.

It was decided to abandon the vessel and set her on fire. We took the Merrimac to the bight
of Craney Island, and about midnight the work of disembarking the crew began. We had but two
boats, and it was sunrise before our three hundred and fifty men were all ashore. Cotton waste
and trains of powder were strewn about the deck, and Executive Officer Jones, who was the last
to leave the ship, applied the slow match. Then we marched silently through the woods to join
Huger, fifteen miles away at Suffolk.

Still unconquered, we hauled down our drooping colors, their laurels all fresh and green, with
mingled pride and grief, gave her to the flames, and set the lambent fires roaring about the
shotted guns. The slow match, the magazine, and that last, deep, low, sullen, mournful boom
told our people, now far away on the march, that their gallant ship was no more.

THE LAST OF THE MONITOR

III

THE LAST OF THE MONITOR

By an eye-witness, Rear-Admiral E.W. Watson, U.S.N.

On the 29th of December, 1862, nine months after her memorable combat with the Merrimac, the
Monitor, Commander John P. Bankhead, left Hampton Roads in tow of the Rhode Island, commanded
by Captain Stephen Decatur Trenchard, for Beaufort, North Carolina. The weather at the time
of starting looked favorable for the trip, but on the following day, when nearing Cape Hatteras,
the wind came out from the southeast and gradually freshened until by evening it was blowing
a moderate gale, with a tolerably heavy sea running. It was soon seen that the Monitor was
making heavy weather of it, and the engines were slowed down, but the course was still kept
head to the wind and sea.

This was a mistake, for experience later on in towing other vessels of her class proved that
the safest way to handle them in heavy weather was to let them lie in the trough of the sea,
when the waves would wash over their decks and the roll would not be excessive. The Monitor
was closely watched, all on board the Rhode Island feeling anxious for her safety. Toward the
end of the first watch--between 8 P.M. and midnight--the signal of distress, a red lantern,
was hoisted on the Monitor, and, unknown to those on the Rhode Island, the hawser was cut and
the anchor of the Monitor let go.

The Rhode Island immediately stopped her engine, and three boats were called away with an officer
in charge of each, and were sent to take off the Monitor's people. With the heavy sea running
it was a difficult matter to go alongside of her, and the first boat to reach her was thrown
by a wave upon the deck and a hole stove in her. The next wave washed the boat off, and with
considerable difficulty she took on board as many of the men as in her leaky condition could
make the return trip safely.

When the boats came alongside of the Monitor, her captain and executive officer went upon the
deck and, clinging to the life-lines with the waves washing over them, called to the crew to
come down from the turret and get into the boats, which they were reluctant to do at first.
Some were able to jump into the boats, and some landed in the water and were hauled in. Seeing
an old quartermaster with a large bundle under his arm, the executive officer, thinking that
it was his clothes-bag, told him that that was no time to be trying to save his effects. He
said nothing, but threw it into the boat. When the bundle was passed up over the side of the
Rhode Island it proved to be a little messenger-boy--probably the smallest and youngest one
in the service. The three boats were finally loaded and made their way back to the ship.

In the mean while the Rhode Island, in backing her engines, had fouled the hawser with her
port paddle-wheel, and being directly to windward of the Monitor, with her engines helpless,
drifted down upon her. It looked at one time as if she would strike the bow of the Monitor,
but, fortunately, she just missed it, and, scraping along her side, drifted off to leeward.

Another boat was sent to bring off the remainder of the Monitor's crew, but, being to leeward
now, she could make only slow headway against the seas, and before she got to her the men saw
the Monitor's light disappear, and knew that she had gone down. The hawser having finally been
cleared from the Rhode Island's wheel, she steamed around searching for the boat, sending up
rockets and burning blue lights to show her position. When the day dawned nothing could be
seen. After hailing a passing government vessel and telling them to search for the boat, the
Rhode Island steamed with all speed for Fortress Monroe to report the loss.

When the survivors of the ill-fated vessel were mustered on the deck of the Rhode Island, four
officers and twelve men were found missing, all of them probably buried in an iron coffin in
a watery grave about fifty miles to the southward and eastward of Cape Hatteras Light.

       *       *       *       *       *

The missing boat and crew of the Rhode Island were found by that vessel a week later safe in
Beaufort, North Carolina. They had been picked up by a schooner and taken into that port. The
officer in charge of the boat reported that in the early morning he had sighted a schooner
standing toward them, and had hoisted a black silk handkerchief belonging to one of the crew
on an oar as a signal of distress, but the people in the schooner, evidently thinking them
pirates who had come out of some one of the inlets of the coast, turned tail and scudded away
from them. A second schooner, coming along soon after, was more hospitable and took them aboard.

THE END