To the north-east of Jerusalem, in the large and fertile valley called El-Gaur, and watered
by the Jordan, we find the village of Rah, the ancient Jericho, denominated by Moses the City
of Palms. This is a name to which it is still entitled; but the groves of opobalsamum, or balm
of Moses, have long disappeared; nor is the neighbourhood any longer adorned with those singular
flowers known among the Crusaders by the familiar appellation of Jericho roses. A little farther
south two rough and barren chains of hills encompass with their dark steeps a long basin formed
in a clay soil mixed with bitumen and rock-salt. The water contained in this hollow is impregnated
with a solution of different saline substances, having lime, magnesia, and soda for their base,
partially neutralized with muriatic and sulfuric acid. The salt which it yields by evaporation
is about one-fourth, of its weight. The bituminous matter rises from time to time from the
bottom of the lake, floats on the surface, and is thrown out on the shores, where it is gathered
for various economical purposes. It is to be regretted that this inland sea has not yet been
examined with the attention which it deserves. We are told, indeed, by the greater number of
those who have visited it, that neither fish nor shells are to be found in its waters; that
an unwholesome vapour is constantly emitted from its bosom; and that its banks, hideous and
desolate in the extreme, are never cheered by the note of any bird. But it is admitted by the
same travellers, that the inhabitants are not sensible of any noxious qualities in its exhalations;
while the accounts formerly believed, that the winged tribes in attempting to fly over it fell
down dead, are now generally regarded as fabulous. Tradition supports the narrative of Sacred
Scripture so far as to teach that the channel of the Dead Sea was once a fertile valley, partly
resting on a mass of subterranean water, and partly composed of a stratum of bitumen; and that
a fire from heaven kindling these combustible materials, the rich soil sunk into the abyss
beneath, and Sodom and Gomorrah were consumed in the tremendous conflagration.

This brief outline of the geographical limits and physical characters of the Holy Land may
prove sufficient as an introduction to its ancient history. Details much more ample are to
be found in numerous works, whose authors, fascinated by the interesting recollections which
almost every object in Palestine is fitted to suggest, have endeavoured to transfer to the
minds of their readers the profound impressions which they themselves experienced from a personal
review of ancient scenes and monuments. But we purposely refrain at present from the minute
description to which the subject so naturally invites us, because, in a subsequent part of
our undertaking, we shall be unavoidably led into a train of local particularities, while setting
forth the actual condition of the country and of its venerable remains. Meantime, we supply,
in the following table, the means of comparing the division or distribution of Canaan among
the Twelve Tribes, with that which was afterward adopted by the Romans.

Ancient Canaanitish    Israelitish                    Roman Division.              Division.
Division.

Sidonians,             Tribe of Asher (in Libanus)   ]
Unknown,              [Naphtali (north-west of the   ]Upper Galilee.
                      [  Lake of Genesareth)         ]

Perizzites,            Zebulun (west of that lake)   ]
The same,             [Issachar (Valley of Esdraelon,]Lower Galilee.
                      [  Mount Tabor)                ]

Hivites,              [Half-tribe of Manasseh (Dora  ]
                      [  and Cesarea)                ]Samaria.
The same,              Ephraim (Shechem, Samaria)    ]

Jebusites,             Benjamin (Jericho, Jerusalem) ]
Amorites, Hittites,    Judah (Hebron, Judea proper)  ]
Philistines,          [Simeon (south-west of Judah)  ]Judea.
                      [Dan (Joppa)                   ]

Moabites,              Reuben (Peraea, Heshbon)      ]
Ammonites, Gilead,     Gad (Decapolis, Ammonites)    ]
Kingdom of Bashan,    [Half-tribe of Manasseh,       ]Peraea.
                      [  Gaulonitis, Batanea         ]

In a pastoral country, such as that beyond the river Jordan especially, where the desert in
most parts bordered upon the cultivated soil, the limits of the several possessions could not
at all times be distinctly marked. It is well known, besides, that the native inhabitants were
never entirely expelled by the victorious Hebrews, but that they retained, in some instances
by force, and in others by treaty, a considerable portion of land within the borders of all
the tribes,--a fact which is connected with many of the defections and troubles into which
the Israelites subsequently fell.

Learned men have long exercised their ingenuity with the view of determining the precise form
of the social condition which was assumed by the Israelites when they took possession of the
Promised Land. The purport of the address he delivered on this occasion, and which is given
at length in the twenty-third chapter of the book which bears his name, was solely to remind
them of their religious obligations as the chosen people of Jehovah, and of the labors that
they had yet to undergo in subduing the remainder of Canaan. Neither in this speech, nor in
the exhortation with which he afterward at Shechem endeavoured to animate the zeal and constancy
of his followers, did he make any allusion to the form of government that it behoved them to
adopt; declining even to direct their choice in the appointment of a chief, who might conduct
their armies in the field, and preside in the deliberations of the national council.

The first events which occurred after the demise of Joshua appear to establish the fact, that
to every tribe was committed the management of its own affairs, even to the extent of being
entitled to wage war and make peace without the advice or sanction of the general senate. The
only government to which the sons of Jacob had hitherto been accustomed, was that most ancient
and universal system of rule which gives to the head of every family the direction and control
of all its members. We find traces of this natural subordination among them, even under the
pressure of Egyptian bondage. During the negotiations which preceded their deliverance under
the ministry of Moses, the applications and messages were all addressed to the patriarchal
rulers of the people. "Go gather the elders of Israel together," was the command of Jehovah
to the son of Amram, when the latter received authority to rescue the descendants of Isaac
from the tyranny of Pharaoh.

But during the pilgrimage in the wilderness, and more particularly when the tribes approached
the confines of the devoted nations of Canaan, the original jurisdiction of the family chiefs
was rendered subordinate to the military power of their inspired leader, who, as the commander
of the armies of Israel, was esteemed and obeyed by his followers as the lieutenant of the
Lord of Hosts. In truth, the martial labours to which his office called him, placed the successor
of Moses at the head of his countrymen in quality of a general, guiding them on their march
or forming their array in the field of battle, rather than as a teacher of wisdom or the guardian
of a peculiar faith and worship. Until the conquered lands were divided among the victorious
tribes, Joshua was a soldier and nothing more; while, on the other hand, the congregation of
the Hebrews, who seconded so well his military plans, appear at that juncture on the page of
history in no other light than that of veteran troops, rendered hardy by long service in a
parching climate, and formidable by the arts of discipline under a skilful and warlike leader.

From the exode, in short, till towards the end of Joshua's administration, we lose sight of
that simple scheme of domestic superintendence which Jacob established among his sons. The
princes of tribes, and the heads of families, were converted into captains of thousands, of
hundreds, and of fifties; regulating their movements by the sound of the trumpet, and passing
their days of rest amid the vigilance and formality of a regular encampment. But no sooner
did they convert the sword into a ploughshare, and the spear into a pruning-hook, than they
unanimously returned to their more ancient form of society. As soon as there appeared a sufficient
quantity of land wrested from the Canaanites to afford to the tribes on the western side of
the Jordan a competent inheritance, Joshua "sent the people away, and they departed;" and from
this moment the military aspect that their community had assumed gave way to the patriarchal
model, to which in fact all their institutions bore an immediate reference, and to the restoration
of which their strongest hopes and wishes were constantly directed.

Actuated by such views, it cannot be denied that the Hebrews manifested an undue impatience
to enjoy the fruits of their successful invasion. They had fought, it should seem, to obtain
an inheritance in a rich and pleasant country, rather than to avenge the cause of pure religion,
or to punish the idolatrous practices of the children of Moab and Ammon. As soon, therefore,
as the fear of their name and the power of their arms had scattered the inhabitants of the
open countries, the Israelites began to sow and to plant; being more willing to make a covenant
with the residue of the enemy, than to purchase the blessings of a permanent peace by enduring
a little longer the fatigue and privations of war. Their eagerness to get possession of the
land flowing with milk and honey seems to have compelled Joshua to adopt a measure, which led
at no distant period to much guilt and suffering on the part of his people. He consented that
they should occupy the vacant fields before the nations which they had been commissioned to
displace were finally subdued; that that they should cast lots for provinces which were still
in the hands of the native Gentiles; and that they should distribute, by the line and the measuring-rod,
many extensive hills and fair valleys which had not yet submitted to the dominion of their swords.

The effects of this injudicious policy soon rendered themselves apparent; and all the evils
which were foreseen by the aged servant of God, when he addressed the congregation at Shechem,
were realized in a little time to their fullest extent. The Hebrews did indeed find the remnant
of the nations among whom they consented to dwell proving scourges in their sides and thorns
in their eyes, and still able to dispute with them the possession of the good land which they
had been taught to regard as a sacred inheritance conferred upon them in virtue of a divine
promise made to their fathers. For example, the author of the book of Judges relates, "the
Amorites forced the children of Dan into the mountains;" for, he adds, "they would not suffer
them to come down to the valley." Hence arose the fact, that the Israelites did not for several
hundred years complete their conquest of Palestine. The Canaanites, recovering from the terror
which had fallen upon them in the commencement of the Hebrew invasion, attempted, not only
to regain possession of their ancient territory, but even to obliterate all traces of their
defeat and subjection. What movements were made by the petty sovereigns of the country, in
order to effect their object, we are nowhere expressly told; but we find, from a consultation
held by the southern tribes of Israel, soon after the death of Joshua, that the necessity of
renewing military operations against the natives could no longer be postponed. It was resolved,
accordingly, that Judah and Simeon should unite their arms, and take the field, to prevent,
in the first place, an inroad with which their borders were threatened, and, subsequently,
to reduce to a state of entire subjection the cities and towns that stood within the limits
of their respective districts. Closely connected with this subject is a consideration of that
agrarian law which was sanctioned by Moses and acted upon by Joshua, and which will be found,
not only to have determined, but also to have secured, the inheritance of every Israelite who
entered the Promised Land.

The extent of that portion of Syria which was granted to the Hebrew nation has been variously
estimated. On the authority of Hecataeus, a native of Abdera, who is quoted by Josephus, the
limits of the territory possessed by the Jews are fixed at three millions of acres, supposing
the aroura of the Greeks to correspond to the denomination of English measure just specified.
Proceeding on this ground, the Abbe Fleury and other writers have undertaken to prove that
the quantity of land mentioned by Hecataeus would maintain only three millions three hundred
and seventy-five thousand men,--a computation which is liable to many objections, and has not
therefore been generally received. It is obvious, for instance, that the Abderite, who lived
in the reign of Alexander the Great, and is said to have afterward attached himself to the
person of the first Grecian king of Egypt, described the country of the Jews as he saw it,
under the dominion of the Syrian princes of the Macedonian line. He accordingly beheld only
the inheritance of the two tribes which had returned from the Babylonian captivity, and of
consequence confined his estimates to the provinces that they were permitted to enjoy; taking
no account of those extensive districts that formerly belonged to the Ten Tribes of Israel,
and which, in his days, were in the hands of that mixed race of men who were descended from
the Assyrian colonists whom Shalmaneser placed in their room.[12]

Confiding in the greater accuracy of Spanheim, Reland, and Lowman, we are inclined to compute
the Hebrew territory at about fifteen millions of acres; assuming, with these writers, that
the true boundaries of the Promised Land were, Mount Libanus on the north, the Wilderness of
Arabia on the south, and the Syrian Desert on the east. On the west some of the tribes extended
their possessions to the very waters of the Great Sea, though on other parts they found their
boundary restricted by the lands of the Philistines, whose rich domains comprehended the low
lands and strong cities which stretched along the shore. It has been calculated by Spanheim,
that the remotest points of the Holy Land, as possessed by King David, were situated at the
distance of three degrees of latitude, and as many degrees of longitude, including in all about
twenty-six thousand square miles.[13]

If this computation be correct, there was in the possession of the Hebrew chiefs land sufficient
to allow to every Israelite capable of bearing arms a lot of about twenty acres; reserving
for public uses, as also for the cities of the Levites, about one-tenth of the whole. It is
probable, however, that if we make a suitable allowance for lakes, mountains, and unproductive
tracts of ground, the portion to every householder would not be so large as the estimate now
stated. But within the limits of one-half of this quantity of land there were ample means for
plenty and frugal enjoyment. The Roman people under Romulus and long after could afford only
two acres to every legionary soldier; and in the most flourishing days of the commonwealth
the allowance did not exceed four. Hence the quatuor jugera, or four acres, is an expression
which proverbially indicated plebeian affluence and contentment,--a full remuneration for the
toils of war, and a sufficient inducement at all times to take up arms in defence of the republic.

The territory of the Hebrews was ordered to be equally divided among their tribes and families
according to their respective numbers; and the persons selected to superintend this national
work were Eleazar, the high-priest, Joshua, who acted in the character of judge, and the twelve
princes or heads of Israel. The rule which they followed is expressed in these words,--"And
ye shall divide the land by lot, for an inheritance among your families; and to the more ye
shall give the more inheritance; and to the fewer ye shall give the less inheritance: every
man's inheritance shall be in the place where his lot falleth; according to the tribes of your
fathers ye shall inherit."

Every tribe was thus put in possession of a separate district or province, in which all the
occupiers of the land were not only Israelites, but more particularly sprung from the same
stock, and descendants of the same patriarch. The several families, again, were placed in the
same neighbourhood, receiving their inheritance in the same part or subdivision of the tribe;
or, to use the language of Lowman, each tribe may be said to have lived together in one and
the same country, and each family in one and the same hundred; so that every neighbourhood
were relations to each other and of the same families, as well as inhabitants of the same place.

To secure the permanence and independence of every separate tribe, a law was enacted by the
authority of Heaven, providing that the landed property of every Israelite should be unalienable.
Whatever encumbrances might befall the owner of a field, and whatever might be the obligations
under which he placed himself to his creditor, he was released from all claims at the year
of jubilee. And the land shall not be sold for ever; for the land is mine, saith the Lord;
for ye are strangers and sojourners with me."[14]

The attentive reader of the Mosaical law will observe, that though a Hebrew could not divest
himself of his land in perpetuity, he could dispose of it so far as to put another person in
possession of it during a certain number of years; reserving to himself and his relations the
right of redeeming it, should they ever possess the means; and having at all events the sure
prospect of a reversion at the period of the jubilee. In the eye of the lawgiver this transaction
was not regarded as a sale of the land, but merely of the crops for a stated number of seasons.
It might indeed have been considered simply as a lease, had not the owner, as well as his nearest
kinsman, enjoyed the privilege of resuming occupation whenever they could repay the sum for
which the temporary use of the land had been purchased.[15]

The houses which were built in fields or villages were, in regard to the principle of alienation,
placed on the same footing as the lands themselves; being redeemable at all times, and destined
to return to their original owners in the year of jubilee. But, on the contrary, houses in
cities and large towns were, when sold, redeemable only during one year; after which the sale
was held binding forever. There was indeed an exception in this case in favour of the Levites,
who could at any time redeem "the houses of the cities of their possession," and who, moreover,
enjoyed the full advantage of the fiftieth year.

The Hebrews, like most other nations in a similar state of society, held their lands on the
condition of military service. The grounds of exemption allowed by Moses prove clearly that
every man of competent age was bound to bear arms in defence of his country,--a conclusion
which is at once strikingly illustrated and confirmed by the conduct of the Senate or Heads
of Tribes, in the melancholy war undertaken by them against the children of Benjamin. Upon
a muster of the confederated army at Mizpeh, it was discovered that no man had been sent from
Jabesh-gilead to join the camp; whereupon it was immediately resolved that twelve thousand
soldiers should be despatched to put all the inhabitants of that town to military execution.
And the congregation commanded them, saying, Go and smite Jabesh-gilead with the edge of the
sword, with the women and children; and the only reason assigned for this severe order was,
that "when the people were numbered, there were none of the men of Jabesh-gilead there."[16]

The reader will now be prepared to accompany us while we make a few remarks on the civil constitution
of the Hebrews, both as it respected the government of the several tribes viewed as separate
bodies, and as it applied to that of the whole nation as a confederated republic.

The tribes of Israel, strictly speaking, amounted only to twelve, descended from the twelve
sons of Jacob. But as the posterity of Joseph was divided into two tribes, it follows that
the host which entered the land of Canaan under Joshua comprehended thirteen of these distinct
genealogies. Viewed in reference to merely secular rights and duties, however, the offspring
of Levi having no part nor lot with their brethren, are not usually reckoned in the number;
while on other grounds, and chiefly an invincible propensity to idolatrous usages, the tribe
of Dan at a later period was sometimes excluded from the list. The whole amounted to six hundred
and six thousand seven hundred.[17]

In every tribe there was a chief called the Prince of the Tribe, or the Head of Thousands;
and under him were the Princes of Families, or Commanders of Hundreds. For example, we find
that at the muster which was made of the Hebrews in the Wilderness of Sinai, Nahshon, the son
of Amminadab, was Prince of the Tribe of Judah. This tribe, again, like all the others, was
divided into several families; the term being used here not in its ordinary acceptation, to
signify a mere household, but rather in the heraldic sense, to denote a lineage or kindred
descended from a common ancestor, and constituting the main branches of an original stock.
In this respect the Israelites were guided by the same principle which regulates precedency
among the Arabs, as well as among our own countrymen in the Highlands of Scotland. If to these
we add the thirteen Princes, the Heads of tribes, the sum of the two numbers will be seventy;
whence there is some ground for the conjectures of those who allege, that the council which
Moses formed in the Wilderness consisted of the patriarchal chiefs, who in right of birth were
recognized as bearing an hereditary rule over the several sections of the people.

It is probable that the first-born of the senior family of each tribe was usually received
as the prince of that tribe, and that the eldest son of every subordinate family succeeded
his father in the honours and duties which belonged to the rank of a patriarch. But the sacred
narrative presents too few details to permit us to form with confidence any general conclusions
in regard to this point. The case of Nahshon, besides, has been viewed as an instance quite
irreconcilable with such an opinion; and it certainly seems to prove, that if the Prince of
the Tribe was not elective, he was not always, at least, the direct descendant of the original
chief. Nahshon, as has just been stated, was the son of Amminadab, the son of Ram, who was
a younger son of Hezron the son of Pharez who was a younger son of Judah.[19]

From the particulars now stated, we find that every tribe had a head who presided over its
affairs, administered justice in all ordinary cases, and led the troops in time of war. He
was assisted in these important duties by the subordinate officers, the Chiefs of Families,
who formed his council in such matters of policy as affected their particular district, supported
his decisions in civil or criminal inquiries, and finally commanded under him in the field
of battle.

But the polity established by the Jewish lawgiver was not confined to the constitution and
government of the separate tribes. It likewise extended its regulations to the common welfare
of the whole, as one kingdom under the special direction of Jehovah; and provided that on all
great occasions they should have the means of readily uniting their counsels and their strength.
Even during the less orderly period which immediately followed the settlement of the Hebrews
in the land of their inheritance, we find traces of such a general government; a national senate,
whose deliberations guided the administration of affairs in all cases of difficulty or hazard;
a judge, who was invested with a high degree of executive authority as the first magistrate
of the commonwealth; and lastly, the controlling voice of the congregation of Israel, whose
concurrence appears to have been at all times necessary to give vigour and effect to the resolutions
of their leaders. To these constituent parts of the Hebrew government we may add the Oracle
or voice of Jehovah, without whose sanction, as revealed by Urim and Thummim, no measure of
importance could be adopted either by the council or by the judge.

It has been justly remarked, at the same time, that however extensive the power might be which
was committed to the supreme court of the nation, and how much soever the authority of a military
judge among the Israelites resembled that of a Roman dictator, the privilege of making laws
was at no period intrusted to any order of the Jewish state. As long as the Hebrews were governed
by a theocracy, this essential prerogative was retained by the Divine Head of the nation. "Now
therefore hearken, O Israel, unto the statutes, and unto the judgments, which I teach you,
for to do them, that ye may live, and go in and possess the land which the Lord God of your
fathers giveth you. Ye shall not add unto the word which I command you, neither shall ye diminish
aught from it, that ye may keep the commandments of the Lord your God which I command you."[20]

It is the opinion of learned men, that the Council of Seventy, established by Moses in the
Wilderness, was only a temporary appointment, and did not continue after the Hebrews were settled
in the Land of Canaan. The only national assembly of which we can discover any trace subsequently
to that event, is the occasional meeting of the Princes of Tribes and Chiefs of Families to
transact business of great public importance. On that memorable occasion, the interests and
character of the whole Hebrew commonwealth were at stake; for which reason the natural leaders
of the tribes gathered themselves together at the head of their kinsmen and followers,--even
four hundred thousand men that drew the sword,--in order to consult with one another, and to
adopt such measures as might be deemed most suitable for punishing the atrocities which had
been committed at Gibeah.

During the period to which this part of our narrative refers, the supreme power among the Hebrews
was occasionally exercised by judges,--an order of magistrates to which nothing similar is
to be found in any other country. The Carthaginians, indeed, had a description of rulers, whose
names, being derived from the same oriental term, appear to establish some resemblance in their
office to that of the successors of Joshua. But it will be found upon a comparison of their
authority, both in its origin and the purposes to which it was meant to be subservient, that
the Hebrew judges and the suffites of Carthage had very little in common. Nor do we find any
closer analogy in the duties of a Grecian archon or of a Roman consul. These were ordinary
magistrates, and periodically elected; whereas the judge was never invested with power except
when the exigencies of public affairs required the aid of extraordinary talents or the weight
of a supernatural appointment. On this account the Hebrew commander has been likened to the
Roman dictator, who, when the commonwealth was in danger, was intrusted with an authority almost
unlimited; and with a jurisdiction which extended to the lives and fortunes of nearly all his
countrymen. But in one important particular this similarity fails. The dictator laid down his
office as soon as the crisis which called for its exercise had passed away; and in no circumstances
was he entitled to retain such unwonted supremacy beyond a limited time. The judge, on the
other hand, remained invested with his high authority during the full period of his life, and
is therefore usually described by the sacred historian as presiding to the end of his days
over the tribes of Israel, amid the peace and security which his military skill, aided by the
blessing of Heaven, had restored to their land.[21]

The Hebrew judges, says Dupin, were not ordinary magistrates, but men raised up by God, on
whom the Israelites bestowed the chief government, either because they had delivered them from
the oppressions under which they groaned, or because of their prudence and equity. They ruled
according to the law of Jehovah, commanded their armies, made treaties with the neighbouring
princes, declared war and peace, and administered justice. They were different from kings,--

1. In that they were not established either by election or succession, but elevated to power
in an extraordinary manner.

2. In that they refused to take upon them the title and quality of king.

3. In that they levied no taxes upon the people for the maintenance of government.

4. In their manner of living, which was very far from the pomp and ostentation of the regal state.

5. In that they could make no new laws, but governed according to the statutes contained in
the Books of Moses.

6. In that the obedience paid to them by the people was voluntary and unforced, being at most
no more than consuls and magistrates of free cities.[22]

But it is less difficult to determine what the judges were not than to ascertain with precision
the various parts of their complicated office. In war, they led the host of Israel to meet
their enemies; and in peace, it is probable they presided in such courts of judicature as might
be found necessary for deciding upon intricate points of law, or for hearing appeals from inferior
tribunals. Those who went up to Deborah for judgment had, we may presume, brought their causes
in the first instance before the judges of their respective cities; and it was only, perhaps,
in cases where greater knowledge and a higher authority were required to give satisfaction
to the litigants that the chief magistrate of the republic, aided by certain members of the
priesthood, was called upon to pronounce a final decision.

It belongs to this part of the subject to mention the provision made by Moses, and established
by Joshua, for the due administration of justice throughout the land. To the same purpose Josephus
relates, in his account of the last address delivered by Moses to the Hebrew people, that this
great legislator gave instructions to appoint seven judges in every city, men who had distinguished
themselves by their good conduct and impartial feelings. Maimonides asserts, that in every
city where the number of householders amounted to a hundred and twenty there was a court consisting
of twenty-three judges, who were empowered to determine in almost all cases both civil and
criminal. This is unquestionably the same institution which is mentioned by Josephus in the
fourth book of his Antiquities, and described by him as being composed of seven judges and
fourteen subordinate officers, or assistants, selected from among the Levites; for these, with
the president and his deputy, make up the sum of twenty-three specified by the Jewish writers.
In smaller towns, the administration of law was intrusted to three judges, whose authority
extended to the determination of all questions respecting debt, theft, rights of inheritance,
restitution, and compensation. Though they could not inflict capital punishments, they had
power to visit minor offences with scourging and fines, according to the nature of the delinquency
and the amount of the injury sustained.[24]

Of the former of these judicial establishments, there were two fixed at Jerusalem even during
the period that the Sanhedrim of Seventy was invested with the supreme authority over the lives
and fortunes of their countrymen, one of which sat in the gate of Shusan, and the other in
that of Nicanor. The place where these judges held their audience was, as Cardinal Fleury remarks,
the gate of the city; for as the Israelites were all husbandmen who went out in the morning
to their work, and did not return till the evening, the gate of the city was the place where
the most frequently met; and we must not be astonished to find that the people laboured in
the fields and dwelt in the towns. These were not cities like our provincial capitals, which
can hardly subsist on what is supplied to them by twenty or thirty leagues of the surrounding
soil. They were the habitations for as many labourers as were necessary to cultivate the nearest
fields; hence, as the country was very populous, the towns were very thickly scattered. For
a similar reason among the Greeks and Romans, the scene of meeting for all matters of business
was the market-place, or forum, because they were all merchants.[25] Among the Jews, the judges
took their seats immediately after morning prayers, and continued till the end of the sixth
hour, or twelve o'clock; and their authority, though not in capital cases, continued to be
respected by the Israelites long after Jerusalem was levelled with the ground.[26]

With the aid of the particulars stated above, the reader mad have been enabled to form some
notion of the civil and political circumstances of the ancient Hebrews. They enjoyed the utmost
degree of freedom that was consistent with the objects of regular society, acknowledging no
authority but that of the laws as administered by the elders of their tribes and the heads
of their families. The equality of their property, too, and the sameness of their occupations,
precluded the rise of those distinctions in social life which, whatever may be their use in
older nations, are opposed by all the habits of a people whose sole cares are yet devoted to
the culture of their fields and the safety of their flocks. The form of government which suits
best with such a distribution of wealth and employment is unquestionably that which was established
by Moses on the basis of the ancient patriarchal rule. But it is worthy of notice, that this
model, so convenient in the earliest stage of social existence, was imperceptibly changed by
the increasing power and intelligence of the people at large, until, as happened towards the
close of Samuel's administration, the public voice made itself be heard recommending an entire
departure from obsolete notions. They glorified in the progress of the human race, that the
simple authority of the family-chief passes through a species of oligarchy into a practical
democracy, and ends at no very distant period in the nomination of an hereditary sovereign.

The epoch at which we now contemplate the Hebrew community is that very interesting one when
the wandering shepherd settles down into the stationary husbandman. The progeny of Abraham,
Isaac, and Jacob, who themselves were pastoral chiefs, appear to have retained a decided predilection
for that ancient mode of life. Moses, even after he had brought the twelve tribes within sight
of the promised land, found it necessary to indulge the families of Reuben, Gad, and Manasseh
so far as to give them the choice of a settlement beyond the Jordan, where they might devote
themselves to the keeping of cattle. From the conduct also of the other tribes, who showed
no small reluctance to divide the land and enter upon their several inheritances, it has been
concluded, with considerable probability, that they too would have preferred the erratic habits
of their ancestors to the more restricted pursuits which their great law-giver had prepared
for them amid cornfields, vineyards, and plantations of olives. They think it, as Arvieux remarks,
more congenial to liberty; because the man who with his herds ranges the desert at large will
be far less likely to submit to oppression than people with houses and lands. This mode of
thinking is of great antiquity in the eastern parts of the world. Diodorus Siculus, when speaking
of the Nabathaeans, relates, that they were by their laws prohibited from sowing, planting,
drinking wine, and building houses; every violation of the precept being punishable with death.
The reason assigned for this very singular rule is, their belief that those who possess such
things will be easily brought into subjection by a tyrant; on which account they continue,
says the historian, to traverse the desert, feeding their flocks, which consist partly of camels
and partly of sheep.

The fact now stated receives a remarkable confirmation from the notice contained in the book
of Jeremiah respecting the Rechabites, who, though they had for several ages been removed from
Arabia into Palestine, persevered in a sacred obedience to the command of their ancestor, refusing
to build houses, sow land, plant vineyards, or drink wine, but resolving to dwell in tents
throughout all their generations.

In regard to these points, the Hebrews, in the early age at which we are now considering them,
appear to have entertained sentiments not very different from those of the Arabs, from whose
sandy plains they had just emerged. The life of a migratory shepherd, too, has a very close
alliance with the habits of a freebooter; and the attentive reader of the ancient history of
the Israelites will recollect many instances wherein the descendants of Isaac gave ample proof
of their relationship to the posterity of Ishmael. The character of Abimelech, the son of Gideon,
for example, cannot be viewed in any other light than that of a captain of marauders. The men
of Shechem, whom he had hired to follow him, refused not to obey his commands, even when he
added murder to robbery. Jephthah, in like manner, when he was thrust out by his brethren,
became the chief of a band of freebooters in the land of Tob. "And there were gathered vain
men to Jephthah, and went out with him." But the elders of Gilead did not on that account regard
their brave countryman as less worthy to assume the direction of their affairs, and to be head
over all the inhabitants of their land,--an honour which he even hesitated to accept when compared
with the rank and emolument of the less orderly situation which they requested him to relinquish.

Nor did David himself think it unsuitable to his high prospects to have recourse for a time
to a predatory life. When compelled to flee from the presence of Saul, he took refuge in the
cave of Adullam; "and every one that was in distress, and every one that was in debt, and every
one that was discontented gathered themselves unto him, and he became a captain over them."
It has been suggested, indeed, that the son of the Bethlehemite employed his arms against such
persons only as were enemies to the Hebrews. But there is no good ground for this distinction.
His conduct to Nabal, whose possessions were in Carmel, proves, that when his camp was destitute
of provisions he deemed it no violation of honour to force a supply for the wants of his men,
even from the stores of a friendly house. We may judge, moreover, of the character of his followers,
as well from the remonstrance that was made by the parsimonious rustic to whom he sent them,
as from the effect which a refusal produced upon their ardent tempers. "Who is David? and who
is the son of Jesse? There be many servants now-a-days that break away every man from his master.
Shall I then take my bread, and my water, and my flesh that I have killed for my shearers,
and give it unto men whom I know not whence they be?--So David's young men turned their way,
and went again, and told him all those sayings. The courage and dexterity which such a life
requires stand high in the estimation of tribes who are almost constantly in a state of war;
and hence, in reading the history of the ancient Israelites, we must form an opinion of their
manners and principles, not according to the maxims of an enlightened age, but agreeably to
the habits, pursuits, and mental cultivation which belonged to their own times.

It is farther worthy of remark, that during the period of the Hebrew judges there is not the
slightest trace of those distinctions of rank which spring from mere wealth, office, or profession.
From the princes of Judah down to the meanest family in Benjamin, all were agriculturists or
shepherds, driving their own oxen, or attending in person to their sheep and their goats. The
hospitable Ephraimite, who received into his house at Gibeah the Levite and his unfortunate
companion, is described as "an old man coming from his work out of the field at even." Gideon,
again, was thrashing his corn with his own hands when the angel announced to him that he was
selected by Divine Providence to be the deliverer of his people. Boaz was attending his reapers
in the field when his benevolence was awakened in favour of Ruth, the widow of his kinsman.
When Saul received the news of the danger which threatened the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead,
he was in the act of "coming after the herd out of the field." Sovereign as he was, he thought
it not inconsistent with his rank to drive a yoke of oxen. Every one knows that David was employed
in keeping the sheep when he was summoned into the presence of Samuel to be anointed king over
Israel; and even when he was upon the throne, and had by his talents and bravery extended at
once the power and the reputation of his countrymen among the neighbouring nations, the annual
occupation of sheep-shearing called his sons and his daughters into the hill country to take
their share in its toils and amusements. In point of blood and ancestry, too, every descendant
of Jacob was held on the same footing; and the only ground of pre-eminence which one man could
claim over another was connected with old age, wisdom, strength, or courage,--the qualities
most respected in the original forms of civilized life.[29]

We have been the more careful to collect these fragments of personal history, because it is
chiefly from them that the few rays of light are reflected which illustrate the state of society
at the era of the Hebrew commonwealth. That the times in which the judges ruled were barbarous
and unsettled is rendered manifest, not less by the general tenor of events, than by the qualities
which predominated in the public mind during the long period that elapsed between the death
of Joshua and the reign of Solomon. These notices also convey to us some degree of information,
in regard to the political relations which subsisted among the Syrian tribes prior to the commencement
of the regal government at Jerusalem. The wars which were carried on at that remote epoch seem
not to have been waged with any view to permanent conquest, or even to territorial aggrandizement,
but merely to revenge an insult, to exact a ransom, or to abstract slaves and cattle. The history
of the judges supplies no facts which would lead us to infer that during any of tie servitudes,
which for their repeated transgressions were inflicted on the Hebrews, their lands were taken
from them, or their cities destroyed by their conquerors. It was not till a later age that
a more systematic plan of conquest was formed by the powerful princes who governed beyond the
Euphrates and on the banks of the Nile, and who, not content with the uncertain submission
of tributaries, resolved to reduce the Israelites for ever to the condition of subjects or
of bondmen.

The account which has been given of the political constitution of the ancient Jews would not
be complete were we to omit all notice of the tribe of Levi, the duties and revenues of which
were fixed by peculiar laws. It may, perhaps, be thought by some readers, that this institution
rested on a basis altogether spiritual; but, upon suitable inquiry, it will be found that the
Levitical offices comprehended a great variety of avocations, much more closely connected with
secular life than with the ministry of the tabernacle, or with the services which were due
to the priesthood. This sacred tribe, indeed, supplied to the whole nation of the Israelites
their judges, lawyers, scribes, teachers, and physicians; for Moses, in imitation of the Egyptians,
in whose wisdom he was early and deeply instructed, had thought proper to make the learned
professions hereditary in the several families of Levi's descendants.

We find, in the first chapter of the book of Numbers, a command issued by the authority of
Heaven to separate the tribe now mentioned from the rest of their brethren, and not to enrol
them among those who were to engage in war. It was determined, on similar grounds, that the
Levites were to have no inheritance in the land like the other tribes, but were to receive
from their kinsmen, in name of maintenance, a tenth part of the gross produce of their fields
and vineyards. The occupations for which they were set apart were altogether incompatible with
the pursuits of agriculture or the feeding of cattle. It was deemed expedient, therefore, that
they should be relieved from the cares and toil connected with the possession of territorial
estates, and devote their whole attention to the service of the altar and the instruction of
the people.

To effect these wise purposes, it was necessary that the members of this learned body should
not be confined to one particular district, but that they should be distributed among all the
other tribes, according to the extent of their several inheritances and the amount of their
population. With this view the law provided that a certain number of cities should be set apart
for them, together with such a portion of soil as might seem requisite for their comfort and
more immediate wants. When the other tribes were settled in their respective possessions, the
children of Levi reminded Joshua of the arrangement made by his predecessor, and claimed cities
to dwell in, and suburbs for their cattle. The justice of their appeal being admitted, the
Levitical stations were distributed as follows,--

                                                 Cities
In the tribes of Judah, Simeon, and Benjamin       13
In Ephraim, Dan, and the half-tribe of Manasseh    10
In the other half-tribe of Manasseh, Issachar,
  Asher, and Naphtali                              13
In Zebulun, Reuben, and Gad                        12
                                                   --
                                                   48

Every reader of the Bible is aware, that six of these cities were invested with the special
right of affording refuge and protection to a certain class of criminals. The Jewish doctors
maintain that this privilege, somewhat limited, belonged to all the forty-eight; for, being
sacred, no act of revenge or mortal retaliation was permitted to take place within their gates.
Into the six cities of refuge, properly so called, the manslayer could demand admittance, whether
the Levites were disposed to receive him or not; and on the same ground he was entitled to
gratuitous lodging and maintenance, until his cause should be determined by competent judges.
It is added, that they could exercise a discretionary power as to the reception of a homicide
into any other of their cities, and even in respect to the hire which they might demand for
the house used by him during temporary residence. But the institution of Moses, afterward completed
by Joshua, affords no countenance to these rabbinical distinctions; and we have no reason whatever
to believe that the benefit of asylum was granted to any Levitical town besides Hebron, Shechem,
Ramoth, Bezer, Kedesh, and Golan.[31]

As learning and the several professions connected with the knowledge of letters were confined
almost exclusively the tribe of Levi, the distribution of its members throughout the whole
of the Hebrew commonwealth was attended with many advantages. Every Levitical city became at
once a school and a seat of justice. There the language, the traditions, the history, and the
laws of their nation were the constant subjects of study, pursued with that zeal and earnestness
which can only arise from the feeling of a sacred obligation, combined with the impulse of
an ardent patriotism. Within their walls were deposited copies of their religious, moral, and
civil institutions; which it was their duty not only to preserve, but to multiply. They kept,
besides, the genealogies of the tribes; in which they marked the lineage of every family who
could trace their descent to the father of the faithful. Being carefully instructed in the
law, and possessed of the annals of their people from the earliest days, they were well qualified
to supply the courts with magistrates and scribes, men who were fitted not only to administer
justice, but also to frame a record of all their decisions. It is perfectly clear that, in
the reign of David and of the succeeding kings, the judges and other legal officers were selected
from among the Levites; there being in those days not fewer than six thousand of this learned
body who held such appointments.

Michaelis represents the Levitical law among the Hebrews in the light of a literary noblesse;
enjoying such a degree of wealth and consideration as to enable them to act as a counterpoise
to the influence of the aristocracy; while, on the other hand they prevented the adoption of
those hasty measures which were sometimes to be apprehended from the democratical nature of
the general government. They were not merely a spiritual brotherhood, but professional members
of all the different faculties; and by birth obliged to devote themselves to those branches
of study, for the cultivation of which they were so liberally rewarded. Like the Egyptian priesthood,
they occupied the whole field of literature and science; extending their inquiries to philosophy,
theology, natural history, mathematics, jurisprudence, civil history, and even medicine. Perhaps,
too, it was in imitation of the sages of the Nile that the Hebrews made these pursuits hereditary
in a consecrated tribe; whence flowed this obvious advantage, that the sons of the Levites,
from the very dawn of reason, were introduced to scientific researches, and favoured with a
regulated system of tuition suited to the occupation in which their lives were to be spent.
In short, the institution bears upon it all the marks of that wisdom for which the Mosaical
economy is so remarkably distinguished, when viewed as the basis of a government at once civil,
religious, and political.[32]

The youngest reader of the Sacred Volume cannot fail to have perceived, that the character
and government of the Hebrew judges withdraw the attention from the ordinary course of human
events, and fix it on the marvellous or supernatural. These personages were raised up by the
special providence of god, to discharge the duties of an office which the peculiar circumstances
of a chosen people from time to time rendered necessary; and the various gifts with which they
were endowed, as they constituted the main ground of vocation to their high employment, so
were they suited to the difficulties that they had to overcome, and to the achievements they
were called to perform. The sanctity of their manners did not, indeed, in all cases correspond
to the dignity of their station; and the miracles which they wrought for the welfare of their
country were not always accompanied with self-restraint and the due subordination of their
passions. Their military exploits were worthy of the highest admiration; while, in some instances,
their private conduct calls forth only our surprise and regret. For examples of heroism and
bravery, we can with confidence point to Gideon, to Samson, and to Jephthah; but there is not
in their character anything besides that a father could recommend to the imitation of his son,
or that a lover of order and pureness of living would wish to see adopted in modern society.
We observe, in the greater number of them, uncommon and even supernatural powers of body, as
well as of mind, united with the gross manners and fierce passions of barbarians. We applaud
their patriotism, admire their courage and talent to the field, and even share in the delight
which accompanied their triumphs; yet, when we return to their dwellings, we dare not inspect
too narrowly the usages of their domestic day, nor examine into the indulgences with which
they sometimes thought proper to remunerate the ails and cares of their public life. Divine
Wisdom, stooping to the imperfection of human nature, employed the instruments that were best
fitted for the gracious ends which, by their means, were about to be accomplished; though it
does not appear to have been intended that mankind should ever resort to the history of the
Judges for lessons of decorum, humanity, or virtue.

The weakness and jealousy which seem inseparable from a government comprehending a number of
Independent states, had been deeply felt during the administration of Eli, and even under that
of Samuel in his latter days. Established in different parts of the country, the several tribes
were actuated by local interests and selfish views; those in the north, who were exempted from
the hostile inroads of the hilistines and Ammonites, refusing to aid their brethren, the children
of Simeon and Judah, whose territory was constantly exposed to the ravages of those warlike
neighbours. In the time of the more recent judges, the federal union on which the Hebrew commonwealth
was founded appeared practically dissolved. Nay, a spirit of rivalry and dissension occasionally
manifested itself among the kindred communities of which it was composed;--Ephraim, stimulated
by envy, vexed Judah, and Judah vexed Ephraim.[33]

Meanwhile, several powerful kingdoms in the east, as well as the south, threatened the independence
of the Twelve Tribes, especially those on the borders of the desert. Assyria had already turned
her views towards the fertile lands which skirt the shores of the Mediterranean; and Egypt,
in order to protect her rich valley from the aggressions of that rising monarchy, began to
open her eyes to the expediency of securing the frontier towns in the nearest parts of Palestine.
In a word, it was fast becoming manifest that the existence of the Hebrews, as a free and distinct
people, could only be secured by reviving the union which had originally subsisted among their
leading families, under a form that would combine their physical strength and patriotism in
the support of a common cause. An aged priest, although he might with the utmost authority
direct the solemnities of their national worship, and even administer the laws to which they
were all bound to submit, could not command the secular obedience of rude clans, or, with any
prospect of success, lead them to battle against an enemy practised in all the stratagems of
war. The people, therefore, demanded the consent of Samuel to a change in the structure of
their government, that they might have a king, not only to preside over their civil affairs,
but also to go out before them and fight their battles.[34]

The principal reason assigned by the elders of Israel for the innovation which they required
at the hands of their ancient prophet was, that they might be "like all the nations;" evidently
alluding to the advantages of monarchical power, when decisive measures become necessary to
defend the interests of a state. It is remarkable that Moses had anticipated this natural result
in the progress of society, and even laid down rules for the administration of the regal government.
This wise legislator provided that the king of the Hebrews should not be a foreigner: lest
he might be tempted to sacrifice the interest of his subjects to the policy of his native land,
and perhaps to countenance the introduction of unauthorized rites into the worship of Jehovah.
It was also stipulated that the sovereign of the chosen people should not multiply horses to
himself, lest he should be carried by his ambition to make war in distant countries, and neglect
the welfare of the sacred inheritance promised to the fathers of the Jewish nation.[35]

The qualities which recommended Saul to the choice of Samuel and the approbation of the Tribes,
leave no room for doubt that it was chiefly as a military leader that the son of Kish was raised
to the throne. Nor was their expectation disappointed in the young Benjaminite, so far as courage
and zeal were required in conducting the affairs of war. But the impetuosity of his character,
and a certain indifference in regard to the claims of the national faith, paved the way for
his downfall and the extinction of his family. The scene of Gilboa, which terminated the career
of the first Hebrew monarch, exhibits a most affecting tragedy; in which the valour of a gallant
chief, contrasted with his despair and sorrow, throws a deceitful lustre over an event which
the reader feels that he ought to condemn.

David, to the skill of an experienced warrior, added a deep reverence for the institutions
of his country and the forms of Divine worship; whence he procured the high distinction of
being a man after God's own heart. To this celebrated king was reserved the honour of taking
from the Jebusites a strong fortress on the borders of Judah and Benjamin, and of laying the
foundations of Jerusalem, viewed, at least, as the metropolis of Palestine and the seat of
the Hebrew government. On Mount Zion he built a suburb of considerable beauty; and strength,
which continued for many years to bear his name, and to reflect the magnificence of his genius.
Not satisfied with this acquisition, he extended his arms on all sides, till the borders of
his kingdom touched the western bank of the Euphrates and the neighbourhood of Damascus. He
likewise defeated the Philistines, those restless enemies of the southern tribes, and added
their dominions to the crown of Israel. The Moabites, who had provoked his resentment, were
subjected to military execution, and deprived of a large portion of their land; an example
of severity which, so far from intimidating the children of Ammon, only provoked them to try
the fortune of war against the victorious monarch. David despatched an army under the command
of the irascible Joab, who, after worsting them in the field, inflicted a tremendous chastisement
upon the followers of Hanun, for having studiously insulted the ambassadors of his master.[36]

But the splendour of this reign was afterward clouded by domestic guilt and treason; and the
nation, which could now have defied the power of its bitterest enemies, was divided and rendered
miserable by the foul passions that issued from the royal palace. Still, notwithstanding the
rebellion of Absalom, and the defection of certain military leaders, David bequeathed to his
successor a flourishing kingdom; rapidly advancing in the arts of civilized life, enjoying
an advantageous commerce, the respect of neighbouring states, and a decided preponderance among
the minor governments of Western Asia. His last years were spent in making preparations for
the building of a temple at Jerusalem,--a work that he himself was not allowed to accomplish,
because his hands were stained with blood, which, however justly shed, rendered them unfit
for erecting an edifice to the God of mercy and peace.[37]

The success which had attended the arms of his father rendered the accession of Solomon tranquil
and secure, so far, at least, as we consider the designs of the surrounding nations. Accordingly;
finding himself in possession of quiet as well as of an overflowing treasury, he proceeded
to realize the pious intentions of David in regard to the house of God, and thereby to obey
the last commands which had been imposed upon him before he had received the crown. The chief
glory of Solomon's administration identified with the erection of the Temple. Nor were the
advantages arising from this great undertaking confined to the spiritual objects to which it
was principally subservient On the contrary, the necessity of employing foreign artists, and
of drawing part of his materials from a distance, suggested to the king the benefits of a regular
trade; and as the plains of Syria produced more corn than the natives could consume, he supplied
the merchants of Tyre and the adjoining ports with a valuable commodity, in return for the
manufactured goods which his own subjects could not fabricate. It was in his reign that the
Hebrews first became a commercial people; and although we must admit that considerable obscurity
still hangs over the tracks of navigation which were pursued by the mariners of Solomon, there
is no reason to doubt that his ships were to be seen on the Mediterranean, the Red Sea, and
the Persian Gulf.[38]

But the popularity of his government did not keep pace with the rapidity of his improvements
or the magnificence of his works. Perhaps the vast extent of his undertakings may have led
to unusual demands upon the industry of his people, and given occasion to those murmurs which
could hardly be repressed even within the precincts of the court. Like his predecessor, too,
he occasionally failed to illustrate, in his own conduct, the excellent precepts that he propounded
for the direction of others; and towards the close of his life, particularly, the wisdom of
his moral lessons was strongly contrasted with the practical follies which stand recorded against
him in the inspired narrative. He totally disregarded the leading principles of the constitution
constructed by Moses and left for the guidance of all Hebrew kings; not only multiplying horses
even to the extent of maintaining a large body of cavalry, and marrying many wives who turned
away his heart, but proceeding so far as to give his countenance to idolatrous worship within
sight of the very Temple which he had consecrated to Jehovah, the God of all the earth.[39]

It was in this reign that the limits of Jewish power attained their utmost reach, comprehending
even the remarkable district of Palmyrene, a spacious and fertile province in the midst of
a frightful desert. There were in it two principal towns, Thapsacus and Palmyra, from the latter
of which the whole country took its name. Solomon, it is well known, took pleasure to adding
to its beauty and strength, as being one of his main defences on the eastern border; and hence
it is spoken of in Scripture as Tadmor in the wilderness. Josephus calls it Thadamor; the Seventy
recognise it under the name of Theodmor and Thedmor; while the Arabs and Syrians at the present
day keep alive the remembrance of its ancient glory as Tadmor, Tadmier, and Tatmor. But of
Solomon's labours not one vestige now remains. The inhabitants having revolted from the Emperor
Aurelian, and pledged their faith to an adventurer called Antiochus, or Achilles, who had assumed
the purple, this splendid town was attacked and razed to the ground. Repenting of his hasty
determination, the Roman prince gave orders that Palmyra should be immediately rebuilt; but
so inefficient were the measures which he adopted, or so imperfectly was he obeyed in their
execution, that the city in the desert has ever since been remarkable only as a heap of magnificent
ruins. The first object that now presents itself to the traveller who approaches this forlorn
place, is a castle of mean architecture and uncertain origin, about half an hour's walk from
it, on the north side. "From thence," says Mr. Maundrell, "we descry Tadmor, enclosed on three
sides, by long ridges of mountains; but to the south is a vast plain which bounds the visible
horizon. The barren soil presents nothing green but a few palm trees. The city must have been
of large extent, if we may judge from the space now taken up by the ruins; but as there are
no traces of its walls, its real dimensions and form remain equally unknown. It is now a deplorable
spectacle, inhabited by thirty or forty miserable families, who have built huts of mud within
a spacious court which once enclosed a magnificent heathen temple."[40]

The despotism exercised by Solomon created a strong reaction, which was immediately felt on
the accession of his son Rehoboam. This prince, rejecting the advice of his aged counsellors,
and following that of the younger and more violent, soon had the misfortune to see the greater
part of his kingdom wrested from him. In reply to the address of his people, who entreated
an alleviation of their burdens, he declared, that instead of requiring less at their hands
he should demand more. Such a resolution, expressed in language at once so contemptuous and
severe, alienated from his government ten tribes, who sought a more indulgent master in Jeroboam,
a declared enemy of the house of David. Hence the origin of the kingdom of Israel, as distinguished
from that of Judah; and hence, too, the disgraceful contentions between these kindred states,
which acknowledged one religion, and professed to be guided by the same law. Arms and negotiation
proved equally unavailing, in repeated attempts which were made to reunite the Hebrews under
one sceptre; till, at length, about two hundred and seventy years after the death of Solomon,
the younger people were subdued by Shalmaneser, the powerful monarch of Assyria, who carried
them away captive into the remoter provinces of his vast empire.[41]

Our plan does not admit a minuter detail of the sacred history than may be readily found in
the pages of the Old Testament. Suffice it therefore to observe, that Jerusalem soon ceased
to be regarded by the Israelites as the centre of their religion, and the bond of union among
the descendants of Abraham.

Jeroboam had erected in his kingdom the emblems of a less pure faith, to which he confined
the attention of his subjects; while the frequent wars that ensued, and the treaties formed
on either side with the Gentile nations on their respective borders, soon completed the estrangement
which ambition had begun. Little attached to the native line of princes, the Israelites placed
on the throne of Samaria a number of adventurers, who had no qualities to recommend them besides
military courage and an irreconcilable hatred towards the more legitimate claimants of the
house of David. The following list will give a condensed view of the names, the order, and
the length of the reigns which belong to the sovereigns of Israel, from the demise of Solomon
down to the extinction of their kingdom by the arms of Assyria:--

                          Years    B.C.
 1. Jeroboam               22      990
 2. Nadad                   2      968
 3. Baasha                 23      966
 4. Ela                     1      943
 5. Zimri and Omri         11      942
 6. Ahab                   22      931
 7. Ahaziah                 2      909
 8. Jehoram or Joram       12      907
 9. Jehu                   28      895
10. Jehoahaz               17      867
11: Jehoash or Joash       16      850
12. Jeroboam II            41      834
    1st Interregnum        22      793
13. Zechariah and Shallum   1      771
14. Menahem                10      770
15. Pekahiah                2      760
16. Pekah                  20      758
    2d Interregnum         10      738
17. Hoshea                  9      728
                          ---      ---
Samaria taken             271      719

It appears to have escaped the notice of the greater number of commentators, that the separation
of interests, which in the days of Rehoboam produced a permanent division of the tribes, had
manifested itself at a much earlier period. In truth, it is extremely doubtful whether the
union and co-operation between the northern and the southern communities, which was meant to
be accomplished by the institution of monarchy, were ever cordial or efficient. There is no
doubt, at least, that the two parties differed essentially in their choice of a successor to
Saul; for, while the people of Judah invited David to the supreme power as their annointed
sovereign, the suffrages of Israel were unanimous in favour of Ishbosheth, the son of the deceased
king. We may therefore conclude, that the exactions of Solomon were the pretext rather than
the true cause of the unfortunate dismemberment of the Hebrew confederation, which in the end
conducted both sections of it by gradual steps to defeat and captivity.

The kingdom of Judah, less distracted by the pretensions of usurpers, and being confirmed in
the principles of patriotism by a more rigid adherance to the law of Moses, continued during
one hundred and thirty years to resist the encroachments of the two rival powers, Egypt and
Assyria, which now began to contend in earnest for the possession of Palestine. Several endeavours
were made, even after the destruction of Samaria, to unite the energies of the Twelve Tribes,
and thereby to secure the independence of the sacred territory a little longer. But a pitiful
jealousy had succeeded to the aversion generated by a long course of hostile aggression; while
the overwhelming hosts, which incessantly issued from the Euphrates and the Nile to select
a field of battle within the borders of Canaan, soon left to the feeble councils of Jerusalem
no other choice than that of an Egyptian or an Assyrian master.

In the year six hundred and two before the Christian era, when Jehoiakim was on the throne
of Judah, Nebuchadnezzar, who already shared with his father the government of Assyria, advanced
into Palestine at the head of a formidable army. A timely submission saved the city as well
as the life of the pusillanimous monarch. But after a short period, finding the conqueror engaged
in more important affairs, the vanquished king made an effort to recover his dominions by throwing
off the Babylonian yoke. The siege of Jerusalem was renewed with greater vigour on the part
of the invaders, in the course of which Jehoiakim was killed, and his son Coniah ascended the
throne. Scarcely, however, had the new sovereign taken up the reigns of government, when he
found it necessary to open the gates of his capital to the Assyrian prince, who carried him,
his principal nobility, and the most expert of his artisans, as prisoners to the banks of the
Tigris.

The nominal authority was now confided to a brother or uncle of the captive king, whose original
name, Mattaniah, was changed to Zedekiah by his lord paramount, who considered him merely as
the governor of a province. Impatient of an office so subordinate, and instigated, it is probable,
by the emissaries of Egypt, he resolved to hazard his life and liberty for the chance of reconquering
the independence of his crown. This imprudent step brought Nebuchadnezzar once more before
the walls of Jerusalem. A siege, which appears to have continued fifteen or sixteen months,
terminated in the final reduction of the holy city, and in the captivity of Zedekiah, who was
treated with the utmost severity. His two sons were executed in his presence, after which his
eyes were put out; when, being loaded with fetters, he was carried to Babylon and thrown into
prison.

The work of demolition was intrusted to Nebuzar-adan, the captain of the guard, who "burnt
the house of the Lord and the king's house, and all the houses of Jerusalem, and every great
man's house burnt he with fire. But he left the poor of the land to be vine-dressers and husbandmen."[42]

The kings who reigned over Judah from the demise of Solomon to the destruction of the first
temple are as follows:--

                        Years    B.C.
 1. Rhehoboam            17      990
 2. Abijah                3      973
 3. Asa                  41      970
 4. Jehoshaphat          25      929
 5. Jehoram or Joram      8      904
 6. Ahaziah               1      896
 7. Queen Athaliah        8      895
 8. Joash or Jehoash     40      889
 9. Amaziah              29      849
    Interregnum          11      820
10. Uzziah or Azariah    52      809
11. Jotham               16      757
12. Ahaz                 18      741
13. Hezekiah             29      725
14. Manasseh             55      696
15. Amor                  2      641
18. Josiah               31      639
17. Jehoahaz              3 months
18. Jehoiakim            11      608
19. Coniah or Jehoiachin  3 months
20. Zedekiah             11      597
                        ---      ---
Jerusalem taken         404      586

The desolation inflicted upon Jerusalem by the hands of her enemies excited the deepest sorrow,
and gave rise to the most gloomy apprehensions in regard to the future. Considering themselves
under the special protection of Jehovah, the inhabitants could not by any means be induced
to believe that the throne of David would be overturned by the armies of the heathen. It was
in vain that Jeremiah, at the imminent peril of his life announced the approaching judgment,
assuring the monarch and his princes that the King of Babylon would certainly besiege and lay
waste their holy city, unless the evil were averted by an immediate change of manners. All
his remonstrances were greeted with contempt; and at length the prophet had to bewail the misery
which thus overtook his people, and the varied sufferings, the contumely, and the degradation,
which they were doomed to endure in the land of their conquerers. She weepeth sore in the night,
and her tears are on her cheeks! Judah is gone into captivity; she dwelleth among the heathen,
she findeth no rest."[43]

These sentiments, although applied to a later period, are beautifully expressed by a modern
poet, to whom was granted no small share of the pathetic eloquence of the prophetic bard whose
words have just been quoted.

  "Reft of thy sons, amid thy foes forlorn,
  Mourn, widowed Queen, forgotten Sion, mourn!
  Is this thy place, sad city, this thy throne,
  Where the wild desert rears its craggy stone,
  While suns unbless'd their angry lustre fling,
  And wayworn pilgrims seek the scanty spring?
  Where now thy pomp which kings with envy viewed,
  Where now thy might which all those kings subdued?
  No martial myriads muster in thy gate;
  No suppliant nations in thy Temple wait;
  No prophet bards, thy glittering courts among,
  Wake the full lyre, and swell the tide of song.
  But lawless Force and meager Want are there,
  And the quick-darting eye of restless Fear;
  While cold Oblivion, 'mid thy ruins laid,
  Folds his dark wing beneath thy ivy shade."[44]

The seventy years which were determined concerning Jerusalem began, not at the demolition of
the city by Nebuzar-adan, the captain of the guard, but at the date of the former invasion
by his master, in the reign of Jehoiakim, when the Assyrians carried away some of the princes,
and among others Daniel and his celebrated companions, as captives, or perhaps as hostages
for the good conduct of the king. The event now alluded to took place exactly six centuries
before the Christian era; and hence the return of the Jews to the Holy Land must have occurred
about the year 530 prior to the same great epoch. But as their migration homeward was gradually
accomplished under different leaders, and with various objects in view, their historians have
not thought it necessary to enter into particulars; and hence has arisen a certain obscurity
in the calculations of divines respecting the commencement, the duration, and the end of the
Babylonian captivity.

The tribes of Judah and Benjamin, who now constituted the whole Jewish nation, brought back
with them to Palestine the ancient spirit of hostility towards the Israelitish kingdom, the
people of which they were pleased to class under the general denomination of Samaritans; an
impure race, descended from the eastern colonists sent by Shalmaneser to replace the Hebrew
captives whom he removed to Halah and Habor and the cities of the Medes. In this way they roused
an opposition, and created difficulties which otherwise they might not have experienced during
their erection of the second Temple. The countenance of the Persian court itself was occasionally
withdrawn from men, who appeared to acknowledge no affinity with any other order of human beings,
and who seemed determined to exclude from their country, as well as from their religious rites
and privileges, all who could not establish an immaculate descent from the father of the faithful.
For this reason, the sympathy which is so naturally excited in the breast of the reader in
behalf of the weary exiles, who sat down and wept by the waters of Babylon with their thoughts
fixed on Zion, is very apt to be extinguished when he contemplates the bitter enmity with which
they rejected the kind offices of their ancient brethren amid the ruins of their metropolis.

The names of Zerubbabel, Nehemiah, and Ezra occupy the most distinguished place among those
worthies who were selected by Divine Providence to conduct the restoration of the chosen people.
After much toil, interruption, and alarm, Jerusalem could once more boast of a temple which,
although destitute of the rich ornaments lavished upon that of Solomon; was at least of equal
dimensions, and erected on the same consecrated ground. But the worshipper had to deplore the
absence of the Ark, the symbolical Urim and Thummim, the Shechinah or Divine Presence, and
the celestial fire which had maintained an unceasing flame upon the altar. Their Sacred Writings,
too, had been dispersed, and their ancient language was fast becoming obsolete. To prevent
the extension of so great an evil, the more valuable manuscripts were collected and arranged,
containing the Law, the earlier Prophets, and the inspired Hymns used for the purpose of devotion.
Some compositions, however, which respected the remotest period of their commonwealth, especially
the Book of Jasher and the Wars of the Lord, were irretrievably lost.

Under the Persian satraps, who directed the civil and military government of Syria, the Jews
were permitted to acknowledge the authority, of their own high-priest, to whom, in all things
pertaining to the law of Moses, they rendered the obedience which was due to the head of their
nation. Their prosperity, it is true, was occasionally diminished or increased by the personal
character of the sovereigns who successively occupied the throne of Cyrus; but no material
change in their circumstances took place until the victories of Alexander the Great had laid
the foundations of the Syro-Macedonian kingdom in Western Asia, and given a new dynasty to
the crown of Egypt. The struggles which ensued between these powerful states frequently involved
the interests of the Jews, and made new demands upon their allegiance; although it is admitted,
that as each was desirous to conciliate a people who claimed Palestine for their unalienable
heritage, the Hebrews at large were, during two centuries, treated with much liberality and
favour. But this generosity or forbearance was interrupted in the rein of Antiochus Epiphanes,
who, alarmed by the report of insurrections, and harassed by the events of an unsuccessful
war in Egypt, directed his angry passions against the Jews. Marching at the head of a large
force, he attacked Jerusalem so suddenly that no means of defence could be used, and hardly
any resistance attempted. Forty thousand of the inhabitants were put to death, and an equal
number condemned to slavery. Not satisfied with this punishment, he proceeded to measures still
more appalling in the eyes of a Jew. He entered the Temple, pillaged the treasury, seized all
the sacred utensils, the golden candlestick, the table of shew-bread, and the altar of incense.
He then commanded a great sow to be sacrificed on the altar of burnt offerings, part of the
flesh to be boiled, and the liquor from this unclean animal to be sprinkled over every part
of the sacred edifice; thus polluting with the most odious defilement even the Holy of Holies,
which no human eye, save that of the high-priest, was ever permitted to behold.

A short time afterward, being the year 168 before the epoch of Redemption, he issued an edict
for the extermination of the whole Hebrew race, against whom he had again conceived a furious
dislike. This commission was intrusted to Apollonius,--an instrument worthy of so sanguinary
a tyrant,--who, waiting till the Sabbath, when the people were occupied in the peaceful duties
of religion, let loose his soldiers upon the unresisting multitude, slew all the men, whose
blood deluged the streets, and seized the women as captives. He first proceeded to plunder
and then to dismantle the city, which he set on fire in many places. He threw down the walls,
and built a strong fortress on the highest part of Mount Sion, which commanded the Temple and
all the adjoining parts of the town. From this garrison he harassed the inhabitants of the
country, who, with fond attachment, stole in to visit the ruins, or to offer a hasty and perilous
worship in the place where their sanctuary had stood. All the public services had ceased, and
no voice of adoration was heard within the holy gates, except that of the profane heathen calling
on their idols.[45]

But the persecution did not end even with these furious expedients. Antiochus next issued an
order for uniformity of worship throughout all his dominions, and sent officers everywhere
to enforce the strictest compliance. In the districts of Judea and Samaria, this invidious
duty was intrusted to Athenaeus, an old man, whose chief recommendation appears to have been
his intimate acquaintance with the doctrines and usages of the Grecian religion. The Samaritans
are said to have conformed without scruple, and even to have permitted their temple on Mount
Gerizim to be regularly dedicated to Jupiter, in his character of the Stranger's Friend. Having
so far succeeded, the royal envoy turned his steps to Jerusalem, where, at the point of the
sword, he prohibited every observance connected with the Jewish faith; compelling the people
to profane the Sabbath, to eat swine's flesh, and to abstain, under a severe penalty, from
the national rite of circumcision. The Temple was consigned by consecration to the ceremonies
of Jupiter Olympius; while the statue of that deity was erected on the altar of burnt-offerings,
and sacrifice duly performed in his name. Two women, who had the initiatory ordinance enjoined
by the Mosaical law performed on their children, were hanged to a conspicuous part of the city
with their infants suspended round their necks; and many other cruelties were perpetrated,
the very atrocity of which precludes them at once from popular belief and from the pages of
history. Neither age, nor sex, nor profession saved the proscribed Jew from the horrors of
a violent death. From Jerusalem, too, the persecution spread over the whole country; in every
city the same barbarities were executed and the same profanations introduced. As a last insult,
the feasts of the Bacchanalia, the license of which, as they were celebrated in the later ages
of Greece, shocked the severe virtue of the older Romans, were substituted for the national
festival of tabernacles. The reluctant Hebrews were forced to join in these riotous orgies,
and carry the ivy, the insignia of the god. So nearly were the Jewish nation and the worship
of Jehovah exterminated by the double weapons of superstition and violence![46]

But this savage intolerance produced in due time a formidable opposition. To a sincere believer
death has always appeared a smaller evil than the relinquishment of his faith; and, in this
respect, no people ancient or modern have shown more resolution than the descendants of Abraham.
The severities of Antiochus, which had inflamed the resentment of the whole Jewish people,
called forth in a hostile attitude the brave family of the Maccabees, whose valour and perseverance
enabled them to dispute with the powerful monarch of Syria the sovereignty of Palestine. Judas,
the ablest and most gallant of five sons, put himself at the head of the insurgents, whose
zeal, more than compensating for the smallness of their numbers, carried him to victory against
large armies and experienced generals. Making every allowance for the enthusiastic description
of an admiring countryman, who has recorded the exploits of the Maccabaean chiefs, there will
still remain the most ample evidence to satisfy every candid reader, that in all the great
battles the fortune of war followed the standard of the Jews.

But the victorious Maccabees, who had delivered their country from the oppression of foreigners,
encountered a more formidable enemy in the factious spirit of their own people. Alcimus, a
tool of the Syrians, assumed the title of high-priest, and in virtue of his office claimed
the obedience of all who acknowledged the institutions of Moses. In this emergency Judas courted
the alliance of the Romans, who willingly extended their protection to confederates so likely
to aid their ambitious views in the East; but before the Republic could interpose her arms
in his behalf, the Hebrew general had fallen in the field of battle.

This distinguished patriot was succeeded by his brother Jonathan, who, though less celebrated
as a warrior, had the good fortune to restore the drooping cause of his countrymen, and even
to establish their rights on the footing of independence. Profiting by a sanguinary competition
for the throne of Syria, he consented to employ his power in favour of Alexander Balas, on
condition that, in return for so seasonable an aid; he should be allowed to assume the pontifical
robe as ruler of Judea. Hence the origin of the Asmonean princes, who, uniting civil with spiritual
authority, governed Palestine more than a hundred years.

But Jonathan fell the victim of that refined policy to which he was mainly indebted for his
elevation. He left the sovereign priesthood to his brother Simon, who, wisely abstaining from
all interference in the disputes which embroiled Egypt and Syria, directed his whole attention
to the improvement of the Jewish kingdom. To secure the tranquillity which had been so dearly
purchased he cultivated a more intimate connexion with Rome; remitting, from time to time,
such valuable tokens of his respect as could not fail to make an impression on the venal minds
of those aspiring chiefs who already contended for the empire of the world in that celebrated
capital. But a conspiracy, originating in his own house, and fomented by the agents of Antiochus,
put an end to the life of Simon and of his eldest son, who had earned considerable reputation
in the command of armies. The duty of avenging his death and of governing a distracted country
devolved upon his younger son, afterward well known in history by the name of John Hyrcanus.

The unhappy circumstances under which he succeeded to power compelled him to submit for a time
to the condition of vassalage; but no sooner had Antiochus Sidetes fallen in the Parthian war,
than John shook off the yoke of Syria, and exercised the rights of an independent sovereign.
He even extended his sway beyond the Jordan, reducing several important towns to his obedience;
though the achievement which most gratified his Jewish subjects was the capture of Shechem,
followed by the demolition of the temple on Gerizim, so long regarded as the opprobrium of
the Hebrew faith. At a later period he made himself master of Samaria and Galilee, when, to
gratify still farther the vindictive grudge which yet rankled in the breasts of his people,
he destroyed the capital of the former, and debased it to the condition of a stagnant lake.
Nor was his attention confined to foreign conquest. He strengthened the fortifications of Jerusalem,
and built the castle of Baris within the walls which surrounded the hill of the Temple,--a
stronghold, that at a future period attracted no small degree of notice under the name of Antonia.

The government was enjoyed during a brief space by Aristobulus, the son of Hyrcanus, whose
reign was only distinguished by the most painful domestic calamities. The throne was next occupied
by Alexander Jannaeus, a man of ignoble birth, but of a warlike and very ambitious temper.
The distracted state of the neighbouring countries induced him to take the field, with the
view of reducing several towns on the coast of the Mediterranean,--an undertaking which finally
involved him in the troubled politics of Egypt and Cyprus. In process of time, the severity
of his measures, or the meanness of his extraction, rendered him so unpopular at Jerusalem
that the inhabitants expelled him by force of arms. A civil war of the most sanguinary nature
raged several years, during which the insurgents invited the assistance of Demetrius Euchaerus,
one of the kings of Syria. This measure seems to have united a large party of Jews, who were
equally hostile to the dominant faction within the city, and to the ally whom they had called
to their aid. Alexander, after having repeatedly suffered the heaviest losses, saw himself
again at the head of a powerful army, with which he resolved to march against the rebellious
capital. He inflicted a signal punishment upon such of the unfortunate citizens as fell into
his hands; ordering nearly a thousand of them to be crucified, and their wives and children
to be butchered before their eyes.

Having fully re-established his power to the remotest parts of Palestine, the victorious high-priest,
now drawing towards the close of his days, gave instructions to his wife for the future government
of the country. Alexandria, a woman of a vigorous mind, held the reins of civil power with
great steadiness, while her eldest son, Hyrcanus the Second, was decorated with the sacred
diadem as the head of the nation. But, unhappily, the commotions which had disturbed the reign
of her husband were again excited, and once more divided the people into two furious parties.
Aristobulus, the younger son of Jannaeus, gave his countenance to the body who opposed his
brother, and at length threw off his disguise so completely as to aspire to supreme power in
defiance of the rights of birth and of a legal investiture. Hyrcanus, who was far inferior
to his ambitious relative in point of talent and resolution, would probably, after the death
of their mother, have been unable to keep his seat on the throne, had he not received the powerful
aid of Antipatar, a son of Antipas, the governor of Idumea. Both sides were making preparation
for an appeal to arms, when the Romans, who had already overrun the finest parts of Syria,
advanced into the province of Palestine in the character at once of umpires and of allies.

Pompey readily listened to the claims of the two competitors, but deferred coming to an immediate
decision; having resolved, as it afterward appeared, that neither of the kinsmen should continue
any longer to possess the civil and military command of Judea. Aristobulus, impatient of delay,
and having no confidence in the goodness of his cause, had recourse to arms, and at length
shut himself up in Jerusalem. The Roman general issued orders to his lieutenant Gabinius to
invest the holy city; which, after a siege of three months, was taken by assault at a great
expense of human life.

Many of the priests who were employed in the duties of their office fell victims to the rage
of the soldiers; while others, unable to witness the desecration of their Temple by the presence
of idolaters, threw themselves from the rock on which that building stood. Induced by curiosity,
the rival of Caesar imitated the profane boldness of Antiochus, penetrating into the Holy of
Holies, and examining all the instruments of a worship which differed so much from that of
all other nations. But Pompey was more politic, or more generous than the Syrian monarch; for
although he found much treasure in the sanctuary as well as many vessels of gold and silver,
he carried nothing away. He expressed much astonishment that, in a fane so magnificent, and
frequented by Jews from all parts of the earth, there should be no material form, statue, nor
picture to represent the Deity to whose honour it was erected. Having, in order to satisfy
the scruples of the people, ordered a purification of the Temple, he renewed the appointment
of Hyrcanus to the high priesthood, but without any civil power; while in respect to the more
turbulent Aristobulus, he resolved to exercise the right of a conqueror, by sending him and
his two sons to Rome, that they might swell the train of his approaching triumph.

The escape of one of these young men, and afterward of the father himself, rekindled the flame
of war in Palestine. But the Romans under Gabinius and the celebrated Mark Antony, speedily
subdued the hasty levies of Aristobulus, and completely re-established the ascendency of the
Republic in all the revolted districts. In the civil war which ensued, Antipater, who still
directed the affairs of the weak-minded Hyrcanus, paid his court so successfully to the dominant
faction as to obtain for his master the protection of Caesar, and for himself the procuratorship
of Judea. Raised to this commanding eminence, he named Phasael, his eldest son, governor of
Jerusalem, and confided to the younger, the artful and unscrupulous Herod, the charge of Galilee.

But there still remained an individual belonging to the family of Aristobulus, who, having
found refuge among the Parthians, led a powerful army of that people into Syria, and finally
invested Jerusalem. The invaders, after obtaining possession of the city, deprived Hyrcanus
of the priesthood and Phasael of his life; the barbarian soldiers, meantime, committing pillage
on all classes, both within the walls and in the adjoining country. Herod, warned by his less
fortunate relative in the capital, had fled to Rome, with the view, it is said, of recommending
the interests of another Aristobulus, a grandson of Hyrcanus, and brother of the beautiful
Mariamne, to whom he himself was already betrothed. Octavius and Antony, however, thought it
morn expedient for their rising empire that Herod should wear the vassal crown of Judea in
his own person, rather than see it placed on the head of an inexperienced youth; and as the
son of Antipater was about to unite himself with a descendant of the Asmonean princes, it was
considered that the claims of each family would be thereby fully satisfied.

The reign of Herod, who, to distinguish him from others of the same name, is usually called
the Great, was no less remarkable for domestic calamity than for public peace and happiness.
Urged by suspicion, he put to death his beloved wife,[47] her mother, brother, grandfather,
uncle, and two sons. His palace was the scene of incessant intrigue, misery, and bloodshed;
his nearest relations being even the chief instruments of his worst sufferings and fears. It
was, perhaps, to divert his apprehensions and remorse that he employed so much of his time
in the labours of architecture. Besides a royal residence on Mount Zion, he built a number
of citadels throughout the country, and laid the foundations of several splendid towns. Among
these was Cesarea, a station well selected both for strength and commerce, and destined to
become, under a different government, a place of considerable importance.

But the impurity of his blood as an Idumean, and his undisguised attachment to the religion
of his Gentile masters, created an obstacle to a complete understanding with his subjects,
which no degree of personal kindness, or of wisdom and munificence in the conduct of public
affairs, could ever entirely remove. At length he determined on a measure which, he hoped,
would at the same time employ the people and ingratiate himself with the higher classes--the
rebuilding of the temple in its former splendour and greatness. The lapse of five hundred years,
and the ravage of successive wars, had much impaired the structure of Zerubbabel. As it was
necessary to remove the dilapidated parts of the edifice before the new building could be begun,
the Jews looked on with a suspicious eye; apprehensive lest the king, under pretence of doing
honour to their faith, should obliterate every vestige of their ancient sanctuary. But the
prudence of Herod calmed their fears; the work proceeded with the greatest regularity, and
the nation saw, with the utmost joy, a fabric of stately architecture crowning the brow of
Mount Moriah with glittering masses of white marble and pinnacles of gold. Yet during this
pious undertaking the Jewish monarch maintained his double character; presiding at the Olympic
games, granting large donations for their support, and even allowing himself to be nominated
president of this pagan festival.[48]

As he advanced towards old age his troubles multiplied, and his apprehensions were increased,
till, at length, four years anterior to the common era of Christianity, Herod sank under the
pressure of a loathsome disease. He was permitted by the Romans so far to exercise the privileges
of an independent prince as to distribute by will the inheritance of sovereignty among the
more favoured of his children; and in virtue of this indulgence he assigned to Archelaus the
government of Idumea, Samaria, and Judea, while he bestowed upon Antipas a similar authority
over Peraea and Galilee.

But the young princes required the sanction of the Roman emperor, whom they both regarded as
their liege lord; and with that view repaired to the capital of Italy. The will of the late
king was acknowledged and confirmed by Augustus, who was moreover pleased to give to Herod
Philip, their elder brother, the provinces of Auranitis, Trachonitis, Paneas, and Batanea.
Achelaus, the metropolis of whose dominions was Jerusalem, ruled in quality of ethnarch about
nine years; but so little to the satisfaction either of his master at Rome or of the people
whom he was appointed to govern, that at the end of this period he was summoned to render an
account of his administration at the imperial tribunal, when he was deprived of his power and
wealth, and finally banished into Gaul. Judea was now reduced to a Roman province, dependent
on the prefecture of Syria, though usually place under the inspection of a subordinate officer,
called the procurator or governor. Thus the sceptre passed away from Judah, and the lawgiver
descended from the family of Jacob ceased to enjoy power within the confines of the Promised Land.

No reader can require to be reminded, that it was at this epoch, in the last year of the reign
of Herod, the Messias was born, and conveyed into Egypt for security. The unjust and cruel
government of Archelaus, for which, as has just been related, he was stripped of his authority
by the head of the empire, was probably the cause why the holy family did not again take up
their residence in Judea, but preferred the milder rule of Antipas. The commotion excited by
Judas, called the Gallilean, is regarded by historians as one of the most important of those
ebullitions which were constantly breaking forth among that inflammatory people, not only on
account of its immediate consequences, but for the effects produced on the national character,
in regard to the speculative tenets connected with tribute and submission to a heathen government.

Upon the exile of Archelaus, the prefecture of Syria was committed to Publius Sulpicius Quirinius.
This commander is mentioned in the Gospel of St. Luke by the name of Cyrenius, and is described
as the person under whom the taxing was first made in that province. Hence we may conclude,
that the enrolment which took place at the birth of our Saviour was merely a census, comprehending
the numbers, and perhaps the wealth and station of the several classes of the people.

It was about the twenty-sixth year of our epoch that Pontius Pilate was nominated to the government
of Judea. Ignorant or indifferent as to the prejudices of the Jews, he roused among them a
spirit of the most active resentment, by displaying the image of the emperor in Jerusalem,
and by seizing part of their sacred treasure for the purposes of general improvement. As the
fiery temper of the inhabitants drove them, on most occasions, to acts of violence, he did
not hesitate to employ force in return; and we find, accordingly, that his administration was
dishonoured by several acts of military execution directed against Jews and Samaritans indiscriminately.
His severity towards the latter people finally led to his recall and disgrace about the year
36, when Vitellius, the father of the future emperor of the same name, presided over the affairs
of the Syrian province.

The plan of our work does not permit us to do more than allude to the great event which took
place at Jerusalem under the auspices of Pilate. We may nevertheless observe, that the narrative
of the gospel is in strict harmony with the character, not only of the time to which it refers,
but also of all the persons whose acts it describes. The expectation of the Jews when Jesus
of Nazareth first appeared,--their subsequent disappointment and rage--their hatred and impatience
of the Roman government,--the perplexity of the military chief, and the motive which at length
induced him to sacrifice the innocent person who was listed before him, are facts which display
the most perfect accordance with the tone of civil history at that remarkable period.

During the troubles which agitated Judea, the districts that owned the sovereignty of Antipas
and Philip, namely, Galilee and the country beyond the Jordan, enjoyed comparative quiet. The
former, who is the Herod described by our Saviour as "that fox," was a person of a cool and
rather crafty disposition, and might have terminated his long reign in peace, had not Herodias,
whom he seduced from his brother--the second prince just mentioned--irritated his ambition
by pointing to the superior rank of his nephew, Herod Agrippa, whom Caligula had been pleased
to raise to a provincial throne. Urged by his wife to solicit a similar elevation, he presented
himself at Rome, and obtained an audience of the emperor; but the successor of Tiberius was
so little pleased with his conduct on this occasion, that he divested him of the tetrarchy,
and banished him into Gaul.

The death of Herod Philip and the degradation of the Galilean tetrarch paved the way for the
advancement of Agrippa to all the honour and power which had belonged to the family of David.
He was permitted to reign over the whole of Palestine, having under his direction the usual
number of Roman troops, which experience had proved to be necessary for the peace of a province
at once so remote and so turbulent. The only event that disturbed the tranquillity of his government
was an insane resolution expressed by Caligula to place his own statue in the temple of Jerusalem,
as an object of respect, if not of positive and direct worship to the whole Jewish nation.
The prudence of the Syrian prefect, and the influence which Agrippa still possessed over the
mind of his imperial friend, prevented the horrors that must have arisen from the attempt to
desecrate, in this odious manner, a sanctuary deemed most holy by every descendant of Abraham.

But no position could be more difficult to hold with safety and reputation than that which
was occupied by this Hebrew prince. He was assailed on the one hand by the jealousy of the
Roman deputies, and on the other by the suspicion of his own countrymen, who could never divest
themselves of the fear that his foreign education had rendered him indifferent to the rites
of the Mosaical law. To satisfy the latter, he spared no expense in conferring magnificence
on the daily service of the temple, while he put forth his hand to persecute the Christian
church in the persons of St. Peter and James the brother of John. To remove every ground of
disloyalty from the eyes of the political agents who were appointed by Claudius to watch his
conduct, he ordered a splendid festival at Cesarea in honour of the new emperor; on which occasion,
when arrayed in the moat gorgeous attire, certain words of adulation reached his ear, not fit
to be addressed to a Jewish monarch. The result will be best described in the words of sacred
Scripture: "And upon a set day Herod, arrayed in royal apparel, sat upon his throne, and made
an oration unto them. These events took place between the fortieth and the forty-fifth years
of the Christian faith.

The youth and inexperience of the prince dictated to the Roman government the propriety of
assuming once more the entire direction of Jewish affairs. The prefecture of Syria was confided
to Cassius Longinus, under whom served, as procurator of Judea, Caspius Fadus, a stern though
an upright soldier. But the impatience and hatred of the people were now inflamed to such a
degree, that gentleness and severity were equally unavailing to preserve the tranquillity of
the country. Impostors appeared on every hand, proclaiming deliverance to the oppressed children
of Jacob, and provoking the more impetuous among their brethren to take up arms against the
Romans. Various conflicts ensued, in which the discipline of the legions hardly ever failed
to disperse or destroy the tumultuary bands who, under such unhappy auspices, attempted to
restore the kingdom to Israel. The holy city, which was from time to time beleaguered by both
parties, sustained material injury from the furious assaults of pagan and Jew alternately.
The predictions of its downfall, already circulated among the Christians, began to mingle with
the shouts of its fanatical inhabitants; and already, even at the accession of Agrippa the
Second to his limited sovereignty, every thing portended that miserable consummation which
at no distant period closed the temporal scene of Hebrew hope and dominion.

Every succeeding day witnessed the progress of that ferocious sect founded on the opinions
of Judas the Gaulonite, who acknowledged no sovereign but Jehovah, and who constantly denounced
as the greatest of all sins those payments or services by means of which a heathenish government
was supported. In prosecuting their revolutionary schemes; they esteemed no man's life dear,
and set as little value upon their own. Devoted to the principles of a frantic patriotism,
they were content to sacrifice to its claims the clearest dictates of humanity and religion;
being at all times ready to bind themselves by an oath that they would neither eat nor drink
until they had slain the enemy of their nation or of their God. This was the school which supplied
that execrable faction, who added tenfold to the miseries of Jerusalem in the day of her visitation,
and who contributed more than all the legions of Rome to realize the bitterness of the curse
which was poured upon her devoted head.

A succession of unprincipled governors, who were sent forth to enrich themselves on the spoils
of the Syrian provinces, accelerated the crisis of Judea. About the middle of the first century
the notorious Felix was appointed to the government, who, in the administration of affairs,
habitually combined violence with fraud, sending out his soldiers to inflict punishment on
such as had not the means or the inclination to bribe his clemency. An equal stranger to righteousness
and temperance, he presented a fine subject for the eloquence of St. Paul, who it is presumed,
however, made the profligate governor tremble, without either affecting his religious principles
or improving his moral conduct.

The short residence of Festus procured for the unhappy Jews a respite from oppression. He laboured
successfully to put down the bands of insurgents, whose ravages were inflicted indiscriminately
upon foreigners and their own countrymen; nor was he less active in checking the excesses of
the military, so long accustomed to rapine and free quarter. Agrippa at the same time transferred
the seat of his government to Jerusalem, where his presence served to moderate the rage of
parties, and thereby to postpone the final rupture between the provincials and their imperial
master. But this brief interval of repose was followed by an increased degree of irritation
and fury. Florus, alike distinguished for his avarice and cruelty, and who saw in the contentions
of the people the readiest means for filling his own coffers, connived at the mutual hostility
which it was his duty to prevent. In this nefarious policy he received the countenance of Cestius
Gallus, the prefect of Syria, who, imitating the maxims of his lieutenant, studiously drove
the natives to insurrection, in order that their cries for justice might be drowned amid the
clash of arms.

But he forgot that there are limits to endurance even among the most humble and abject. Unable
to support the weight of his tyranny, and galled by certain insults directed against their
faith, the Jewish inhabitants of Cesarea set his power at defiance, and declared their resolution
to repel his injuries by force. The capital was soon actuated by a similar spirit, and made
preparations for defence. Cestius marched to the gates, and demanded an entrance for the imperial
cohorts, whose aid was required to support the garrison within. The citizens, refusing to comply;
anticipated the horrors of a siege, when after a few days they saw, to their great surprise,
the Syrian prefect in full retreat carrying with him his formidable army. Sallying from the
different outlets with arms in their hands, they pursued the fugitives with the usual fury
of an incensed multitude; and, overtaking their enemy at the narrow pass of Bethhoron, they
avenged the cause of independence by a considerable slaughter of the legionary soldiers, and
by driving the remainder to an ignominious flight.

Nero received the intelligence of this defeat while amusing himself in Greece, and immediately
sent Vespasian into Syria to assume the government, with instructions to restore peace of the
province by moderate concessions or by the most vigorous warfare. It was in the year sixty-seven
that this great commander entered Judea, accompanied by his son, the celebrated Titus. The
result is too well known to require details. A series of sanguinary battles deprived the Jews
of their principal towns one after another, until they were at length shut up in Jerusalem;
the siege and final reduction of which compose one of the most affecting stories that are anywhere
recorded in the annals of the human race.

There is no subject on which greater obscurity prevails than that of the learning and schools
of the Hebrews prior to their return from the Babylonian Captivity. The wise institution of
Moses, which provided for the maintenance of Levitical towns in all the tribes, secured at
least an hereditary knowledge of the law, including both its civil and its spiritual enactments.
It is extremely probable, therefore, that all the varieties of literary attainment which might
he deemed necessary, either for the discharge of professional duties or for the ornament of
private life, were derived from those seminaries, and partook largely of their general character
and spirit. An examination of the scanty remains of that remote period will justify, to a considerable
extent, the conjecture now made. It will appear that the poetry, the ethics, the oratory, the
music, and even the physical science cultivated in the time of Samuel and David bore a close
relation to the original object of the Levitical colleges, and were meant to promote the principles
of religion and morality, no less than of that singular patriotism which made the Hebrew delight
in his separation from all other nations of the earth.

Our attention is first attracted by the several allusions which are scattered over the earlier
books of the Old Testament to the schools of the prophets. These were establishments obviously
intended to prepare young men for certain offices analogous to those which are discharged in
our days by the different orders of the clergy; maintained in some degree at the public expense;
and placed under the superintendence of persons who were distinguished for their gravity and
high endowments. The principal studies pursued in these convents appear to have been poetry
and music, the elements of which were necessary to the young prophet when he was called to
take a part in the worship of Jehovah. In the book of Samuel we find the pupils performing
on psalteries, tabrets, and harps; and in the first section of the Chronicles it is said that
the sons of Asaph, of Heman, and of Jeduthan prophesied with harps, with psalteries, and with
cymbals. For the same reason Miriam the sister of Moses is called a prophetess. When preparing
to chant her song of triumph, upon the destruction of the Egyptians at the Red Sea, "she took
a timbrel in her hand, and all the women went out after her with timbrels and with dances."

On a similar ground is the expression to be interpreted when used by St. Paul in the eleventh
chapter of his First Epistle to the Corinthians. "Every woman praying or prophesying with her
head uncovered dishononreth her head;" that is, every female who takes a part in the devotions
of the Christian Church,--the supplications and the praises,--ought, according to the practice
of eastern nations, to have her face concealed in a veil, as becoming the modesty of her sex
in a mixed congregation. The term prophesy, in this instance, must be restricted to the use
of psalmody, because exposition or exhortation in public was not permitted to the women, who
were not allowed to speak or even to ask a question in a place of worship. Nay, the same apostle
applies the title of prophet to those persons among the heathen who composed or uttered songs
in praise of their gods. In his Epistle to Titus he alludes to the people of Crete in these
words, "one of themselves, even a prophet of their own, has said, the Cretans were always liars."
And every classical scholar is perfectly aware that in the language of pagan antiquity a poet
and a prophet were synonymous appellations.

But the function of the prophet was not confined to the duty of praise and thanksgiving; it
also implied the ability to expound and enforce the principles of the Mosaical Law. He was
entitled to exhort and entreat; and we accordingly find that the greater portion of the prophetical
writings consist of remonstrances, rebukes, threatenings, and expostulations. In order to be
a prophet, in the Hebrew sense of the expression, it was not necessary to be endowed with the
power of foreseeing future events. It is true that the holy men through whom the Almighty thought
meet to reveal his intentions relative to the church, were usually selected from the order
of persons now described. But there were several exceptions, among whom stood preeminent the
eloquent Daniel and the pathetic Amos. To prophesy, therefore, in the later times of the Hebrew
commonwealth meant most generally the explication and enforcement of Divine truth--an import
of the term which was extended into the era of the New Testament, when the more recondite sense
of the phrase was almost entirely laid aside.

In truth, it should seem that even before the days of Samuel the opinions, or rather perhaps
the popular notions connected with the name and offices of a prophet, had undergone some change,
and began to point to higher objects. Saul, when employed in seeking his father's asses, had
journeyed so far from home that he despaired of finding his way thither; and when he was come
to the land of Zuph he said to his servant, "Come, and let us return; lest my father leave
caring for the asses, and take thought for us. And he said unto him, Behold now, there is in
this city a man of God, and he is an honourable man; all that he saith cometh surely to pass:
now let us go thither; peradventure he can show us our way that we should go. But the age of
Samuel required more solid qualifications in the prophets, and hence the term seer had already
given way to that of expounder or master of eloquence and wisdom. The expedient suggested by
the attendant of the son of Kish was very natural, and quite consistent with his rank and habits;
while the easy acquiescence which he obtained from his master denotes the simplicity of ancient
times, not less than the untutored state of mind in which the future King of Israel had left
his parent's dwelling. Before he mounted the throne, however, he was sent to acquire the elements
of learning among the sons of the prophets; whom, in a short time, he accompanied in their
pious exercises in a manner so elevated as to astonish every one who had formerly known the
young Benjamite; till then remarkable only for a mild disposition and great bodily strength.

The mental bias towards prediction, which is almost unavoidably acquired by the practice of
elucidation and commentary on a dark text, soon showed itself in the schools of the prophets.
Many of them, trusting to their own ingenuity rather than to the suggestion of the Spirit of
Truth, ventured to foretel the issue of events, and to delineate the future fortunes of nations,
as well as of individuals. Hence the race of false prophets, who brought so much obloquy upon
the whole order, and not unfrequently barred against the approach of godly admonition the ears
of those who were actually addressed by an inspired messenger. Nay, it appears that some of
them arrogated the power of realizing the good or the evil which they were pleased to foretel;
allowing the people to believe that they were possessed with demons, who enabled them, not
only to foresee, but to influence in no small measure the course of Providence. The impression
on the mind of Ahab in regard to Micaiah leaves no room for doubt that the king imagined the
prophet to be actuated by a malignant feeling towards him. "I hate him," he exclaimed, "for
he doth not prophesy good concerning me, but evil." Nor was the conviction that this ungracious
soothsayer spoke from his own wishes rather than from a divine impulse confined to the Israelitish
monarch. It is remarkable, too, that one prophet did not possess the gift of ascertaining the
truth or sincerity of another who might declare that he spoke in the name of God; and hence
there were no means of determining the good faith of this order of men, except the general
evidence of a pious character, or the test of a successful experience. For example, when Jeremish
proclaimed the approaching fall of Jerusalem, the other prophets were among the first to oppose
him, saying, "Thou shalt surely die: why hast thou prophesied in the name of the Lord that
this house shall be like Shiloh, and this city shall be desolate without an inhabitant?"

It is worthy of notice, too, that the prediction which gave so much offence was conditional
and contingent, and that Jeremiah, accordingly, incurred the hazard of suffering the severe
punishment due to a false prophet; because if the people had turned from their sins the fate
of their capital and nation would have been protracted. The divine legislator denounced the
penalty of death against every prophet who should speak in the name of any false god, or who
should speak in the name of Jehovah that which he was not commanded to speak; but, in regard
to the latter offence, the guilt could only be substantiated by the failure of the prophecy.
"And if thou say in thine heart, how shall we know the word which the Lord hath not spoken?
The capture of Jerusalem produced the most undeniable testimony to the inspiration of Jeremiah,
as well as to the sincerity of his expostulation; yet it is well known that his motives did
not escape suspicion, and that his memory was loaded by many of his countrymen with the charge
of having favoured the Chaldeans.

It may not appear out of place to inform the young reader that the prophets whose writings
are contained in the Old Testament are in number sixteen, and usually divided into two classes,
the greater and the minor, according to the extent of their works and the importance of their
subject. Of the former, Isaiah, who may be regarded as the chief, began to prophesy under Uzziah,
and continued till the first year of Manasseh. Jeremiah flourished a few years before the great
captivity, and lived to witness the fulfilment of his own predictions. Ezekiel, who had been
carried into the Babylonian territory some time before the ruin of his native country in the
days of Zedekiah, began to perform his office among the Jewish captives in the land of the
Chaldees, in the fifth year after Jehoiakim was made prisoner. Daniel, the youngest of the
four, was only twelve years of age when he was involved in the miseries of conquest, and reduced
to the condition of a dependent at a foreign court.

Among the twelve minor prophets, Jonas, Hosea, Amos, and Micah preceded the destruction of
the kingdom of Israel. Nahum and Joel appeared between that catastrophe and the captivity of
Judah. Habakkuk, Obadiah, and Zephaniah lived at the time when Jerusalem was taken, and during
part of the captivity. Haggai, Zecharias, and Malachi, the last of the whole, prophesied after
the return from Babylon.

But our business is rather with the literature of the prophets at large than with the special
functions of the few individuals of their body who were commissioned by Heaven to reveal the
secrets of future time. Of the fruits of their professional study we have fine examples preserved
in the Psalms of David and the Proverbs of Solomon; the former, a collection of sacred lyrics
composed for the worship of Jehovah; the latter, a compend of practical wisdom, suggested by
an enlightened experience, and expressed in language equally striking for its divine truth
and rare simplicity.

In early times the dictates of moral philosophy are enounced in short sentences, the result
of much thought, and of which the effect is usually heightened by the introduction of a judicious
antithesis both in the sentiment and the expression. The apothegms ascribed to the wise men
of Greece belong to this kind of composition; being extremely valuable to a rude people who
can profit by the fruits of reasoning without being able to attend to its forms, and deposite
in their minds a useful precept, unencumbered with the arguments by means of which its soundness
might be proved. The books which bear the name of Solomon are distinguished above all others
for the sage views that they exhibit of human life, and for the sensible maxims addressed to
all conditions of men who have to encounter its manifold perils--proving a guide unto the feet
and a lamp unto the path.

In no respect does the Hebrew nation appear to greater advantage than when viewed in the light
of their sublime compositions. Nor is this remark confined simply to the style or mechanism
of their writings, which is nevertheless allowed by the best judges to possess many merits;
but may be extended more especially to the exalted nature of their subjects,--the works, the
attributes, and the purposes of Jehovah. The poets of pagan antiquity, on the other hand, excite
by their descriptions of divine things our ridicule or disgust. Even the most approved of their
order exhibit repulsive images of their deities, and suggest the grossest ideas in connexion
with the principles and enjoyments which prevail among the inhabitants of Olympus. But the
contemporaries of David, inferior in many things to the ingenious people who listened to the
strains of Homer and of Virgil, are remarkable for their elevated conceptions of the Supreme
Being as the Creator and Governor of the world, not less than for the suitable terms in which
they give utterance to their exalted thoughts.

In no other country but Judea, at that early period, were such sentiments as the following
either expressed or felt. Bless Jehovah, O my soul. O Lord my God, thou art very great, and
art clothed with honour and majesty! Bless Jehovah, O my soul, and all that is within me, bless
his holy name. Jehovah is merciful and gracious, slow to anger, and plenteous in mercy.

A similar train of lofty conception pervades the writings of the prophets. Behold, the nations
are as a drop of a bucket, and are counted as the small dust of the balance; be taketh up the
isles as a very little thing. It is he that sitteth upon the circle of the earth, and the inhabitants
thereof are as grass-hoppers.

The following quotation from the same inspired author is very striking, inasmuch as the truth
contained in it is founded upon an enlarged view of the Divine government, and directly pointed
against that insidious Manicheism, which, originating in the East, has gradually infected the
religious opinions of a large portion of mankind. Light was imagined to proceed from one source,
add darkness from another; all good was traced do one being, and all evil was ascribed to a
hostile and antagonist principle. Spirit, pure and happy, arose from the former; while matter,
with its foul propensities and jarring elements, took its rise from the latter.

But it is not only in such sublimity of language and exalted imagery that the literature of
the Hebrews surpasses the writings of the most learned and ingenious portion of the heathen
world. A distinction not less remarkable is to be found in the humane and compassionate spirit
which animates even the earliest parts of the sacred volume; composed at a time when the manners
of all nations were still unrefined, and the softer emotions were not held in honour.

We shall in vain seek for instances of such a benign and liberal feeling in the volumes of
the most enlightened of pagan writers, whether poets or orators. How beautifully does the following
observation made by Solomon contrast with the contempt expressed by Horace for the great body
of his countrymen:--"He that despiseth his neighbour sinneth; but he that bath mercy on the
poor happy is he. He that oppresseth the poor reproacheth his Maker."

Among the Israelites there was no distinction as to literary privilege or philosophical sectarianism.
There was no profane vulgar in the chosen people. The stores of Divine knowledge were open
to all alike. The descendant of Jacob beheld in every member of his tribe a brother, and not
a master; one who in all the respects which give to man dignity and self-esteem was his equal
in the strictest sense of the term. Hence the noble flame of patriotism which glowed in all
the Hebrew institutions before the people became corrupted by idolatry and a too frequent intercourse
with the surrounding tribes; and hence, too, the still more noble spirit of fraternal affection
which breathed in their ancient law, their devotional writers, and their prophets.

It is worthy of remark, that in order to prevent any part of the sacred oracles from becoming
obsolete or falling into oblivion, the inspired lawgiver left an injunction to read the books
which bear his name, in the hearing of all the people, at the end of every seven years at farthest.
The separation of the Israelites under Jeroboam led, in the first instance, to a defection
from the Mosaic ritual, and, in the end, to the establishment of a rival worship,--a revolution
which compelled all the Levites who remained attached to the primitive faith to desert such
of their cities as belonged to the revolted tribes, and to seek an asylum among their brethren
who acknowledged the successor of Solomon. Hence the reign of idolatry and that total neglect
of the law which disgraced the government of the new dynasty; though it must be granted, that
with a view to perpetuate their relationship to the father of the faithful, the people preserved
certain copies of the Pentateuch, even after the desolation of their land and the complete
extinction of their political independence.

It is more surprising to find, that even among the orthodox Hebrews at Jerusalem the law sank
into a gradual oblivion; insomuch that in the days of Jehosophat, the fifth from David, it
was found necessary to appoint a special commission of Levites and priests to revive the knowledge
of its holy sanctions in all parts of the country. Josiah, famed for his piety and attention
to the ceremonies of the national religion, gave orders to repair the Temple for the worship
of Jehovah; on which occasion, Hilkiah, the high-priest, found the precious record in the house
of the Lord, and sent it to the king.[57] A momentary zeal bound the people once more to the
belief and usages of their ancestors; but the example of the profane or careless sovereigns
who afterward filled the throne of Josiah plunged the country once more into guilt, obliterating
all recollection of the divine statutes, at least as a code of public law. The captivity throws
a temporary cloud over the Hebrew annals, and prevents us from tracing beyond that point the
progress of opinion on this interesting subject. But upon the return from Babylon a new era
commences; and we now observe the same people, who in their prosperity were constantly deviating
into the grossest superstitions and most contemptible idolatry, remarkable for a rigid adherence
to the ritual of Moses, and for a severe intolerance towards all who questioned its heavenly
origin or its universal obligation. Ezra is understood to have charged himself with the duty
of collecting and arranging the manuscripts which had survived the desolation inflicted upon
his country by the arms of Assyria, at the same time substituting for the more ancient characters
usually known as the Samaritan the Chaldean alphabet, to which his followers had now become
accustomed. From these notices, however, which respect a later period, we return to the more
primitive times immediately succeeding the era of the commonwealth.

We have ascribed the cultivation of sacred knowledge to the schools of the prophets, without
having been able to trace very distinctly the institution of these seminaries to the Levitical
colleges, the proper fountains of the national literature. In the days of Samuel, it would
appear that the necessity of certain subordinate establishments had been admitted, in order
to supply a class of persons qualified to instruct such of the people as lived at a distance
from the cities of the Levites. The rule of the prophetical schools seems to have borne some
resemblance to that of the better description of Christian convents in the primitive ages,
enjoining abstinence and labour, together with an implicit obedience to the authority of their
superiors. The clothing, also, it may be presumed, was humble, and somewhat peculiar. A rough
garment fastened with a girdle round the loins is alluded to by Zechariah; while the impression
made on the courtiers at Ramoth-gilead by the appearance of one of the sons of the prophets
sent thither by Elisha would lead us to the same conclusion. "Wherefore," said they, "came
this mad fellow to thee?" Nor is it without reason that some authors have attributed the conduct
of the children who mocked Elieha to the uncouthness of his dress and to the want of a covering
for his head. Be this as it may, there is no doubt that from the societies now mentioned sprang
the most distinguished men who adorned the happiest era of the Jewish church.

Were we allowed to form a judgment from the few incidents recorded in the books of the Kings,
we should conclude that the accomplishment of writing was not very general among the subjects
of David and Solomon. It is ingeniously conjectured by Michaelis, that Joab, the captain of
the host, and sister's son of the inspired monarch himself, could not handle the pen; else
he would not, for the purpose of concealing from the bearer the real object for which he was
sent, have found it necessary to tax his ingenuity by putting the very suspicious detail of
Uriah's death into the mouth of a messenger to be delivered verbally to the king. He would
at once have written to him that the devoted man was killed.[58]

As to science in its higher branches, we can not expect any proofs of eminence among a secluded
people, devoted, as the Hebrews were, to the pursuits of agriculture and the feeding of cattle.
Solomon, indeed, is said to have been acquainted with all the productions of nature, from the
cedar of Libanus to the hyssop on the wall; and we may readily believe, that the curiosity
which distinguished his temper would find some gratification in the researches of natural history,--the
first study of the opening mind in the earliest stage of social life. But astronomy had not
advanced farther than to present an interesting subject of contemplation to the pious mind,
which could only regard the firmament as a smooth surface spread out like a curtain, or bearing
some resemblance to the canopy of a spacious tent. The schools of the prophets, we may presume,
were still strangers to those profound calculations which determine the distance, the magnitude,
and the periodical revolutions of the heavenly bodies. Even the sages of Chaldea, who boast
a more ancient civilization than is claimed by the Hebrews, satisfied themselves with a few
facts which they had not learned to generalize, and sometimes with conjectures which had hardy
any relation to a fixed principle or a scientific object. Long after the reign of David, these
wise men had not distinguished the study of the stars from the dreams of astrology.

The first application of astronomical principle is to the division of time, as marked out by
the periodical movements of the heavenly bodies. The Hebrews combined in their calculations
a reference to the sun and to the moon, so as to avail themselves of the natural measure supplied
by each. Their year accordingly was lunisolar, consisting of twelve lunar months, with an intercalation
to make the whole agree with the annual course of the sun. The year was further distinguished
as being either common or ecclesiastical. The former began at the autumnal equinox, the season
at which they imagined the world was created; while the latter, by Divine appointment, commenced
about six months earlier, the period when their fathers were delivered from the thraldom of
Egypt. Their months always began with the new moon; and before the captivity they were merely
named according to their order, the first, second, third, and so on down to the twelfth. But
upon their return they used the terms which they found employed in Babylon, according to the
following series:--

Nisan[59]              March. Zif, or Ijar           April. Sivan                  May. Tamuz
June. Ab                     July. Elul                   August. Ethanim, or Tisri      September.
Bul, or Mareshuan      October. Chisleu                November. Tebeth                 December.
Sebat                  January. Adar                   February.

One-half of these months consisted of thirty days, the other of twenty-nine, alternately making
in all three hundred and fifty-four. To supply the eleven days and six hours which were deficient,
they introduced every second year an additional month of twenty-two days, and every fourth
year one of twenty-three days; by which means they approached as nearly to the true measure
as any other nation had attained till the establishment of the Gregorian calendar.

The Hebrews divided the space from sunrise to sunset into twelve equal parts, and hence the
hours of their day varied in length according to the season of the year. For example, when
the sun rose at five and set at seven, an hour contained seventy minutes; but when it rose
at seven and set at five, the hour was reduced to fifty minutes, and so on in proportion to
the duration of the time that the sun was above the horizon. A similar rule applied to the
night, which was likewise divided into twelve equal portions.

It must be acknowledged, however, that the observations now made apply rather to the acquirements
of the Jews after their return from the East, than to the more simple condition in which they
appear under their judges and prophets.

Next to the learning of this early period, the reader of the sacred history will have his curiosity
excited in regard to the time, the place, and the manner of religious worship. When the Israelites
had obtained possession of the Holy Land, and distributed the territory among their tribes,
the tabernacle, or ambulatory temple, was placed at Shiloh, a town in the possession of Ephraim.
To that sacred retreat the Hebrews were wont to travel at the three great festivals, to accomplish
the service enjoined by their law.

But it appears that a more ordinary kind of religious duty was performed at certain stations
within the several tribes, in the intervals between the stated feasts appointed fur the whole
nation; having some reference, it is probable, to the periodical return of the Sabbath and
new moons. For this purpose the people seem to have repaired to high places, where they might
more readily perceive the lunar crescent, and give utterance to their customary expression
of gratitude and joy. This species of adoration was connived at rather than authorized by the
priests and Levites, who found it impossible to check altogether the propensity of the multitude
to perform their worship on the high hill and under the green tree. Samuel, the prophet and
judge, saw the expediency on one occasion of building an altar unto the Lord on Ramah, which
is called the High Place; and in the reign of Solomon the same practice was confirmed, "because
there was no house built unto the name of the Lord until those days."[60]

It is difficult to determine with precision at what epoch the Hebrews first formed those meetings
or congregations which are called synagogues,--a name afterward more frequently applied to
the buildings in which they convened. The earliest allusion to them is found in the seventy-fourth
Psalm, where the writer, describing the havoc committed by the Assyrians, remarks, "they have
burnt up all the synagogues of God in the land." Perhaps in remote places, where the population
was small, the inhabitants met in the house of the Levite, a conjecture which derives some
plausibility from an affecting incident mentioned in the second book of the Kings. When the
son of the woman of Shunem died, "she called unto her husband and said, send me, I pray thee,
one of the young men, and one of the asses, that I may run to the man of God. And he said,
wherefore wilt thou go? it is neither new moon nor Sabbath." It is reasonable to conclude,
that on these days it was customary to repair to the dwelling of the holy man for religious
purposes.

We have already alluded to the fact, that at the first settlement of the Promised Land the
tabernacle was established in Shiloh, a village in Ephraim, at that time the most numerous
and powerful of all the tribes. The profanity or, disobedience of the people in this district
led to the removal of the Divine presence, the symbols of which were commanded to be deposited
in Jerusalem. "Go ye," says the prophet Jeremiah, "unto my place which was in Shiloh, where
I set my name at the first; and see what I did to it for the wickedness of my people Israel."
Hence the origin of the feud which subsisted so long between Ephraim and Judah, and afterward
between the Jews and Samaritans, in regard to the spot where Jehovah ought to be worshipped.
Each laid claim to a Divine appointment; neither would yield to the other or hold the slightest
intercourse in their adoration of the same great Being; and the question remained as far as
ever from being determined when the Romans finally cut down all distinctions by their victorious
arms.

Our limits will not permit us to indulge in a minute account of the Jewish festivals. Still
the three great institutions at which all the males of the Hebrew nation were commanded to
appear before Jehovah are so frequently mentioned in the history of the Holy Land, that we
must take leave to specify their general objects. The feast of the Passover, comprehending
that of unleavened bread, commemorated the signal deliverance of this wonderful people from
the tyranny of Pharaoh. It was to be kept upon the fifteenth day of the first month, to last
seven days, and to begin, as all their festivals began, the evening before at the going down
of the sun.

The reader will attend to the distinction just stated--the beginning and end of their sacred
days. The celebration of the ordinary Sabbath, indeed, commenced on the evening of Friday,
and terminated at the going down of the sun on Saturday. "From even unto even shall ye celebrate
your Sabbaths." But the Jews, in the concluding period of their government, had innovated so
far on the Mosaical institution as to prohibit the passover from being observed on Monday,
Wednesday, or Friday, and to appoint the celebration of it on the following day. The year in
which our Lord suffered death this great annual feast fell on a Friday--beginning, as already
stated, at sunset on Thursday evening--and the Redeemer accordingly, who came to fulfil all
righteousness, ate the paschal supper with his disciples on the evening of Thursday. Yet the
Jews, we find from the evangelical narrative, were not to observe that rite till the following
evening; and hence, the early part of Friday being the preparation, they would not go into
the judgment hall "lest they should be defiled, but that they might eat the passover" after
the going down of the sun. For the same reason they besought Pilate that the bodies might be
removed; intimating that the day which was to begin at sunset was to them a high day, being
in fact not only the Sabbath, but also the paschal feast, both extremely solemn in the estimation
of every true Israelite.

On the ground now stated is easily explained the apparent discrepancy between the account given
by St. John and that of the other Evangelists. They tell us that our Lord celebrated the passover
on Thursday evening the first day of the yearly festival; whereas the beloved disciple relates,
that the neat morning was still the preparation of that ordinance which was to be observed
by the whole nation the ensuing night. Both statements are perfectly correct; only our Saviour
adhered to the day fixed by the original institution, while the priests and lawyers followed
the rule established by the Sanhedrim, which threw the festival a day after its proper time.

The proper preparation indeed of every festival began only at three o'clock, called by the
Hebrews the ninth hour, and continued till the close of the day, or the disappearance of the
sun. It was at that hour, accordingly, that the Jews entreated the governor to take down the
bodies from the cross; holding it extremely improper that any token of a curse or capital punishment
should meet their eyes while making ready to kill the paschal lamb.

The Feast of Pentecost was an annual offering of gratitude to Jehovah for having blessed the
land with increase. It took place fifty days after the passover, and hence the origin of its
name in the Greek version of our Scriptures. Another appellation was applied to it--the Feast
of Weeks--for the reason assigned by the inspired lawgiver. "Seven weeks shall thou number
unto thee; beginning to number the seven weeks from such time as thou puttest the sickle to
the corn. And thou shalt keep the feast of weeks unto the Lord thy God with a tribute of a
free-will offering of thine hand, in the place which Jehovah shall choose to place his name
there: And thou shall remember that thou wast a bondman in Egypt."[62]

This was a very suitable celebration in an agricultural society, where joy is always experienced
upon the gathering in of the fruits of the earth. The Hebrews were especially desired on that
happy occasion to contrast their improved condition, as freemen reaping their own lands, with
the miserable state from which they had been rescued by the good providence of Jehovah. The
month of May witnessed the harvest-home of all Palestine in the days of Moses, as well as in
the present times; and no sooner was the pleasant toil of filling their barns completed, than
all the males repaired to the holy city with the appointed tribute is their hands, and the
song of praise in their mouths. Jewish antiquaries inform us, that there was combined with
this eucharistical service a commemoration of the wonders which took place at Mount Sinai,
when the Lord condescended to pronounce his law in the ears of his people. The history of our
own religion has supplied a greater event, which at once supersedes the pious recollections
of the Hebrew, and touches the heart of the Christian worshipper with the feeling of a more
enlightened gratitude.

The termination of the vintage was marked with a similar expression of thanksgiving, uttered
by the assembled tribes in the place which had received the "Name of Jehovah;" the visible
manifestation of his presence and power.

This festival was of the most lively and animated description, celebrated with a joyous heart,
and under the canopy of heaven, in a most delightful season of the year. If more exquisite
music and more graceful dances accompanied the gathering in of the grapes on the banks of the
Cephisus, the tabret and the viol and the harp, which sounded around the walls of the sacred
metropolis, were not wanting in sweetness and gayety; and, instead of the frantic riot of satyrs
and bacchanals, the rejoicing was chastened by the solemn religious recollections with which
it was associated, in a manner, remarkably pleasing and picturesque.[63]

The feast of Trumpets had a reference to the mode practised by many of the ancients for announcing
the commencements of seasons and epochs. The beginning of every month was made known to the
inhabitants of Jerusalem by the sound of musical instruments. As the first day of the moon
in September was the beginning of the civil year, the festivity was greater and more solemn
than on other occasions. The voice of the trumpets waxed louder than usual, and the public
mind was instructed by a grave assurance from the mouth of the proper officer, that another
year was added to the age of the world. "In the seventh month, in the first day of the month,
shall ye have a Sabbath, a memorial of blowing of trumpets, an holy convocation. Ye shall do
no servile work therein; but ye shall offer an offering made by fire unto the Lord."[64]

We have already alluded to the jubilee which occurred periodically after the lapse of forty-nine
years, or, as the Jews were wont to express it, after a week of Sabbaths. The benevolent uses
of this most generous institution are known to every reader, more especially as they respected
personal freedom and the restoration of lands and houses. Great care was taken by the Jewish
legislator to prevent an accumulation of property in one individual, or even in one tribe.
Nor was his anxiety less to prevent the alienation of land, either by sale, mortgage, or marriage.
With this view we find him enacting a rule, suggested by the case of the daughters of Zelophedad,
who had been allowed to become heirs to their father, of which the object was to perpetuate
the possession of landed estates within the limits of each particular tribe.

To this judicious remonstrance Moses gave the following answer:--"This is the thing which the
Lord doth command concerning the daughters of Zelophedad; let them marry to whom they think
best; only to the family of the tribe of heir father shall they marry. Of these was the Feast
of Dedication mentioned by St. John, referring, it has been thought, to the purification of
the altar by Judas Maccabaeus, after it had been profaned by Antiochus, the king of Syria.
When the ceremony was performed, "Judas and his brethren, with the whole congregation of Israel,
ordained that the days of the dedication of the altar should be kept in their season, from
year to year, by the space of eight days, from the five-and-twentieth day of the ninth month
(November), with mirth and gladness."[66]

The restoration of the heavenly fire in the temple, after the return from Babylon, was likewise
commemorated every year. This sacred flame, which had been long extinct, was revived on the
altar the day that Nehemiah performed sacrifice in the new building. For this reason the Jews
of Palestine wrote to those in Egypt, recommending an annual festival in remembrance of an
event so important to their national worship. They thought it necessary to certify them of
the fact, that their brethren also might celebrate the "feast of the fire which was given us
when Neemias offered sacrifice after that he had builded the Temple and the altar."[67]

It was likewise a custom among this singular people, that the young women "went yearly to lament
the daughter of Jephthah, the Gileadite, four days in a year." A more joyous ceremony, on the
fourteenth and fifteenth days of the month Adar, reminded the faithful Hebrew of the triumph
gained by his kindred over the cruel and perfidious Haman, who had intended to extirpate their
whole race.

In concluding this chapter on the literature and religion of the ancient Hebrews, we may remark,
in regard to the system bequeathed to them by Moses, that it contains the only complete body
of law which was ever given to a people at one time,--that it is the only entire body of law
which has come down to our days,--that it is the only body of ancient law which still governs
an existing people,--that, the nation which it respects being scattered over the face of the
whole earth, it is the only body of law that is equally observed in the four quarters of the
globe,--and, finally, that all the other codes of law of which history has preserved any recollection,
were given to communities who already had written statutes, but who wished to change their
form or modify their application; whereas, in this case, we behold a new society under the
hands of a legislator who proceeds to lay its very foundations.[68]

It may be said of the Hebrews, that they had no profane literature, no works devoted to mere
amusement or relaxation. As they admitted no image of any thing in heaven or in earth, they
consequently rejected the use of all those arts called imitative, and which supply so large
a portion of the more refined enjoyment characteristic of civilized nations. In like manner,
they seem to have viewed in the light of sacrilege every attempt to bring down the sublime
language in which they praised Jehovah and recorded his mighty works, to the more common and
less hallowed purposes of fictitious narrative, or of amatory, dramatic, and lyrical composition.
The Jews have no epic poem to throw a lustre on the early annals of their literature. Even
the Song of Songs is allowed to have a spiritual import, pointing to much higher themes than
Solomon and his Egyptian bride. A solemn gravity pervades all their writings, befitting a people
who were charged with the religious history of the world and with the oracles of Divine truth.
No smile appears to have ever brightened the countenance of a Jewish author,--no trifling thought
to have passed through his mind,--no ludicrous association to have been formed in his fancy.
In describing the flood of Deucalion, the Roman poet laughs at the grotesque misery which he
himself exhibits, and purposely groups together objects with the intention of exerting to his
readers the feeling of ridicule. But in no instance can we detect the faintest symptom of levity
in the Hebrew penmen; their style, like their subject, is uniformly exalted, chaste, and severe;
they wrote to men concerning the things of God, in a manner suitable to such a momentous communication;
and they never ceased to remember that, in all their records, whether historical or prophetic,
they were employed in propagating those glad tidings by which all the families of the earth
were to be blessed.

There can be no stronger proof of the pure and sublime nature of Hebrew poetry than is supplied
by the remarkable fact, that it has been introduced into the service of the Christian church,
and found suitable for expressing those lofty sentiments with which the gospel inspires the
heart of every true worshipper. No other nation of the ancient world has produced a single
poem which could be used by an enlightened people in these days for the purposes of devotion.[69]
Hesiod, although much esteemed for the moral tone of his compositions, presents very few ideas
indeed capable of being accommodated to the theology of an improved age. In perusing the works
of the greatest writers of paganism, we are struck with a monstrous incongruity in all their
conceptions of the Supreme Being. The majesty with which the Hebrews surrounded Jehovah is
entirely wanting; the attributes belonging to the great Sovereign of the universe are not appreciated;
the providence of the Divine mind, united with benevolence, compassion, and mercy, is never
found to enter into their descriptions of the eternal First Cause; while their incessant deviations
into polytheism outrage our religious feelings, and carry us back to the verb rudest periods
of human history.

In these respects the literature of the Jews is far exalted above that of every other nation
of which history has preserved any traces. It must be acknowledged, that we remain ignorant
of the learning and theological opinions cultivated among the Persians at the time when the
Jews were under their dominion, and cannot therefore determine the precise extent to which
the dogmas of the captive tribes were affected by their intercourse with a race of men who
certainly taught the doctrine of the Divine unity, and abstained from idolatrous usages. But
confining our judgment even to the oldest compositions of the Hebrews, those, for example,
which may be traced to the days of Moses, of Samuel, and of David, we cannot hesitate to pronounce
that they are distinguished by a remarkable peculiarity, indicating by the most unambiguous
tokens, that, in all things pertaining to religious belief, the descendants of Jacob were placed
under a special superintendence and direction.

Having described, as fully as the plan of our undertaking will admit, the constitution, history,
learning, and religion of the ancient Hebrews, we now proceed to give an account of the present
condition of the country which they inhabited nearly 1500 years, interrupted only by short
intervals of captivity or oppression. The connexion which Christianity acknowledges with the
people and soil of Judea has, from the earliest times, given a deep interest to travels in
the Holy Land. The curiosity natural to man in respect to things which have obtained celebrity,
joined to the conviction, hardly leas natural, that there is a certain merit in enduring privation
and fatigue for the sake of religion, has in every age induced pilgrims to visit the scenes
where our Divine Faith was originally established, and to communicate to their contemporaries
the result of their investigations. It is to be regretted, indeed, that some of them from ignorance,
and others from a feeling of the weakest bigotry, have omitted to notice those very objects
which are esteemed the most interesting to the general reader; thinking it their duty, as one
of them expresses it, to "quench all spirit of vain curiosity, lest they should return without
any benefit to their souls."

About the year 705, Jerusalem and its holy places were visited by Arculfus, from whose report
Adamnan composed a narrative, which was received with considerable approbation. He describes
the Temple on Mount Calvary with some minuteness, mentioning its twelve pillars and eight gates.
But his attention was more particularly attracted by relics, those objects which all Jerusalem
flocked to handle and to kiss with the greatest reverence. He saw the cup used at the last
supper,--the sponge on which the vinegar was poured,--the lance which pierced the side of our
Lord,--the cloth in which he was wrapped,--also another cloth woven by the Virgin Mary, whereon
were represented the figures of the Saviour and of the Twelve Apostles.

Eighty years later, Willibald, a Saxon, undertook the same journey, influenced by similar motives.
From his infancy he had been distinguished by a sage and pious disposition; and, on emerging
from boyhood, he was seized with an anxious desire to "try the unknown ways of peregrination--to
pass over the huge wastes of ocean to the ends of the earth." To this erratic propensity he
owed all the fame which a place in the Romish calendar and the authorship of an indifferent
book can confer. In Jerusalem he saw all that Arculfus saw, and nothing more; but he had previously
visited the Tomb of the Seven Sleepers, and the cave in which St. John wrote the Apocalypse.

Bernard proceeded to Palestine in the year 878. He travelled first in Egypt, and from thence
made his way across the Desert, the heat of which called vividly to his imagination the sloping
hills of Campania when covered with snow. At Alexandria he was subjected to tribute by the
avaricious governor, who paid no regard to the written orders of the sultan. The treatment
which he received at Cairo was still more distressing. He was thrown into prison, and in this
extremity he asked counsel of God; whereupon it was miraculously revealed to him, that thirteen
denari, such as he had presented to the other Mussulman, would produce here an equally favourable
result. The celestial origin of this advice was proved by its complete success. The pilgrim
was not only liberated, but obtained letters from the propitiated ruler which saved him from
all farther exaction.

The Crusades threw open the holy places to the eyes of all Europe; and accordingly, so long
as a Christian king swayed the sceptre in the capital of Judea, the merit of individual pilgrimage
was greatly diminished. But no sooner had the warlike Saracens recovered possession of Jerusalem
than the wonted difficulty and danger returned; and, as might be expected, the interest attached
to the sacred buildings, which the "infidel dogs" were no longer worthy to behold, revived
in greater vigour than formerly. In 1331, William de Bouldesell adventured on an expedition
into Arabia and Palestine, of which some account has been published. In the monastery of St.
Catharine, at the base of Mount Sinai, he was hospitably received by the monks, who showed
him the bones of their patron reposing in a tomb, which, however, they appear not to have treated
with much respect. By means of hard beating, we are told, they brought out from these remains
of mortality a small portion of blood, which they presented to the pilgrim as a gift of singular
value. A circumstance which particularly astonished him would probably have produced no surprise
in a less believing mind; the blood, it seems, "had not the appearance of real blood, but rather
of some thick oily substance;" nevertheless, the miracle was regarded by him as one of the
greatest that had ever been witnessed in this world.

A hundred years afterward Bertrandon de la Broquiere sailed from Venice to Jaffa, where, according
to the statistics of contrite pilgrims, the "pardons of the Holy Land begin." At Jerusalem
he found the Christians reduced to a state of the most cruel thraldom. Such of them as engaged
in trade were locked up in their shops every night by the Saracens, who opened the doors in
the morning at such an hour as seemed to them most proper or convenient. At Damascus they were
treated with equal severity. The first two persons whom he met in this city knocked him down,--an
injury which he dared not resent for fear of immediately losing his life. About thirty years
before the period of his visit, the destroying arms of Timur had laid a large portion of the
Syrian capital in ruins, though the population had again increased to nearly one hundred thousand.
During his stay he witnessed the arrival of a caravan consisting of more than three thousand
camels. Its entry employed two days and two nights; the Koran wrapped in silk being carried
in front on the back of a camel richly adorned with the same costly material. This part of
the procession was surrounded by a number of persons brandishing naked swords, and playing
on all sorts of musical instruments. The governor, with all the inhabitants, went out to meet
the holy cavalcade, and to do homage to the sacred ensign, which at once proclaimed their faith,
and announced the object of the pious mission thus successfully concluded. Broquiere found
the greatest respect paid to every one who had performed the pilgrimage to Mecca, and was gravely
assured by an eminent Moulah, that no such person could ever incur the hazard of everlasting
damnation.

We merely mention the names of Breidenbach of Mentz, and of Martin Baumgarten, who in the beginning
of the sixteenth century achieved a journey into the Holy Land. The latter of these, while
passing through Egypt, was most barbarously treated by the Saracen boys, who pelted him with
dirt, brickbats, stones, and rotten fruit. At Hebron he was shown the field "were it is said,
or at least guessed, that Adam was made;" but the reddish earth of which it is composed is
now used in the manufacture of prayer-beads.

The work of Bartholemeo Georgewitz, who travelled in the same century, gives a melancholy account
of the miseries endured by such Christians as were carried into slavery by the Turks in those
evil days. The armies of that nation were followed by slave-dealers supplied with chains, by
means of which fifty or sixty were bound in a row together, leaving only two feet between to
enable them to walk. The hands were manacled during the day, and at night the feet also. The
sufferings inflicted upon men of rank, and those belonging to the learned professions, were
almost beyond description; extending not only to the lowest labours of the field, but even
to the work of oxen, being sometimes yoked like these animals in the plough. Owing to the great
rivers and arms of the sea, it was extremely difficult for those who were sent into Asia to
effect their escape; whence, in many cases, the horrors of captivity had no other limits than
those of the natural life. No wonder that Bartholemeo recommends to every one visiting those
parts to make his will, "like one going not to the earthly, but to the heavenly Jerusalem."

Laurence Aldersey, who set out from London in 1581, was the first Protestant who encountered
the perils of a voyage to Syria. In the Levant a Turkish galley hove in sight, and caused great
alarm. The master, "being a wise fellow, began to devise how to escape the danger; but, while
both he and all of us were in our dumps, God sent us a merrie gale of wind." As they approached
Candia a violent storm came on, and the mariners began to reproach the Englishman as the cause,
"and saide I was no good Christian, and wished I were in the middest of the sea, saying that
they and the shippe were the worse for me." He replied, "I think myself the worst creature
in the worlde, and do you consider yourselves also." These remonstrances were followed by a
long sermon, the tenor of which was, "that they were not all good Christians, else it were
not possible for them to have such weather." A gentleman on board informed Aldersey, that the
suspicions respecting him originated in his refusal to join in the prayers to the Virgin Mary,--a
charge which he parried by remarking that "they who praied to so many goe a wrong way to worke."
The friars, resolving to bring the matter to an issue, sent round the image of Our Lady to
kiss. On its approach the good Protestant endeavoured to avoid it by going another way; but
the bearer "fetched his course about," and presented it. The proffered salutation being then
positively rejected, the affair might have become serious, had not two of the more respectable
monks interceded in his behalf, and enforced a more charitable procedure.

Of the people of Cyprus he remarks, that they "be very rude, and like beasts, and no better:
they eat their meat sitting upon the ground, with their legs acrosse like tailors." On the
8th of August they arrived at Joppa, but did not till the next day receive permission to land
from the great pasha, "who sate upon a hill to see us sent away." Aldersey had mounted before
the rest, which greatly displeased his highness, who sent a servant to pull him from the saddle
and beat him; "whereupon I made a long legge, saying, Grand mercye, seignor." This timely submission
seems to have secured forgiveness; and accordingly, "being horsed upon little asses," they
commenced their journey towards Jerusalem. Rama he describes as so "ruinated, that he took
it to be rather a heape of stones than a towne;" finding no house to receive them but such
a one as they were compelled to enter by creeping on their knees. The party were exposed to
the usual violence and extortion of the Arabs; "they that should have rescued us stood still,
and durst doe nothing, which was to our cost." On reaching the holy city they knelt down and
gave thanks; after which they were obliged to enter the gate on foot, no Christian at that
period being allowed to appear within the walls mounted. The superior of the convent received
the pilgrims courteously into his humble establishment, where Aldersey tells us, "they were
dieted of free cost, and fared reasonable well."[70]

The beginning of the seventeenth century witnessed a higher order of travellers, who, from
such a mixture of motives as might actuate either a pilgrim or an antiquary, undertook the
perilous tour of the Holy Land. Among these, one of the most distinguished was George Sandys,
who commenced his peregrinations in the year 1610. He was succeeded by Doubdan, Cheron, Thevenot,
Gonzales, Morison, Maundrell, and Pococke, all of whom have contributed many valuable materials
towards a complete knowledge of the localities, government, and actual condition of modern
Palestine. In our own days the number of works on these important subjects has increased greatly,
presenting to the historian of the Turkish provinces in Asia a nearer and more minute view
of society than could be obtained by the earlier travellers, who, instead of yielding to the
characteristic bigotry of Moslem, usually opposed to it a prejudice not less determined and
uncharitable. We must not hazard a catalogue of the enterprising authors to whom the European
public are indebted for the information: now enjoyed by every class of readers, in regard to
the most interesting of all ancient kingdoms,--the country inhabited by Israel and Judah. In
the description which we are about to give of the principal towns, the buildings, the antiquities,
the manners, the opinions, and the religious forms which meet the observation of the intelligent
tourist in the Land of Canaan, we shall select the most striking facts from writers of all
nations and sects, making no distinction but such as shall be dictated by a respect for the
learning, the candour, and the opportunities which are recorded in their several volumes.

Palestine is usually approached, either from the sea at the port of Jaffa (the ancient Joppa),
or from Egypt, by way of the intervening desert. In both cases, the principal object is to
obtain a safe and easy route to the capital, which, even at the present hour, cannot be reached
without much danger, unless under the special protection of the native authorities. The power
of Mohammed Ali, it is true, extends almost to the very walls of Gaza; and wherever his government
is acknowledged no violence can be committed with impunity on European travellers. But the
Syrian pashas, equally deficient in inclination and vigour, still permit the grossest extortion,
and sometimes connive at the most savage atrocities. Besides, there is a class of lawless Arabs
who scour the borders of the wilderness, holding at defiance all the restrictions which a civilized
people impose or respect. Sir Frederick Henniker, who followed the unwonted track which leads
from Mount Sinai to the southern shore of the Dead Sea, narrowly escaped with his life, after
having been severely wounded and repeatedly robbed by one of the most savage hordes of Bedouins.

The history of the crusades will draw our attention to Jaffa more minutely than would be suitable
at the present stage of our narrative; we shall therefore proceed on the usual route to Jerusalem,
collecting as we go along such notices as may prove interesting to the reader. At a short distance
from this celebrated port the pilgrim enters the plain of Sharon, celebrated in Scripture for
its beautiful roses. The monk Neret informs us, that in his time it was covered with tulips,
the variety of whose colours formed a lovely parterre. At present, the eye of the traveller
is delighted with a profusion of roses white and red, the narcissus, the white and orange lily,
the carnation, and a highly-fragrant species of everlasting-flower. This plain stretches along
the coast from Gaza in the south to Mount Carmel on the north, being bounded towards the east
by the hills of Judea and Samaria. The whole of it is not upon the same level; it consists
of four platforms separated from each other by a wall of naked stones. The soil is composed
of a very fine sand, which, though mixed with ravel, appears extremely fertile; but owing to
the desolating spirit of Mohammedan despotism, nothing is seen in some of the richest fields
except thistles and withered grass. Here and there, indeed, are scanty plantations of cotton,
with a few patches of doura, barley, and wheat. The villages, which are commonly surrounded
with olive-trees and sycamores, are for the most part in ruins; exhibiting a melancholy proof
that under a bad government even the bounty of Heaven ceases to be a blessing.

The path by which the billy barrier is penetrated is difficult, and in some places dangerous.
But before you reach it, turning towards the east, you perceive Rama, or Ramla, the ancient
Arimathea, distinguished by its charming situation, and well known as the residence of a Christian
community. The convent, it is true, had been plundered five years before it was visited by
Chateaubriand; and it was not without the most urgent solicitation that the friars were permitted
to repair their building, as if it were a maxim among the Turks, who by their domination continue
to afflict and disgrace the finest parts of Palestine, that the progress of ruin and decay
should never be arrested. Volney tells us, that when he was at Ramla a commander resided there
in a serai, the walls and floors of which were on the point of tumbling down. He asked one
of the inferior officers why his master did not at least pay some attention to his own apartment.
The reply was, "If another shall obtain his place next year, who will repay the expense?"

In those days the aga maintained about one hundred horsemen and as many African soldiers, who
were lodged in an old Christian church, the nave of which was converted into a stable, as also
in an ancient khan, which was disputed with them by the scorpions. The adjacent country is
planted with lofty olives, the greatest part of which are as large as the walnut-trees of France,
though they are daily perishing through age and the ravages of contending factions. When a
peasant is disposed to take revenge on his enemy, he goes by night and outs his trees close
to the ground, when the wound, which he carefully covers from the sight, drains off the sap
like an issue. Amid these plantations are seen at every step dry wells, cisterns fallen in,
and immense vaulted reservoirs, which prove that in ancient times this town must have been
upwards of four miles in circumference. At present it does not contain more than a hundred
miserable families. The houses are only so many huts, sometimes detached, and sometimes ranged
in the form of cells round a court, enclosed by a mud wall. In winter, the inhabitants and
their cattle may be said to live together; the part of the building allotted to themselves
being raised only two feet above that in which they lodge their beasts. The peasants are by
this means kept warm without burning wood,--a species of economy indispensable in a country
absolutely destitute of fuel. As to the fire necessary for culinary purposes, they make it,
as was the practice in the days of Ezekiel the prophet, of dung kneaded into cakes, which they
dry in the sun, exposing them to its rays on the walls of their huts. In summer, their lodging
is more airy; but all their furniture consists of a single mat and a pitcher for carrying water.
The immediate neighborhood of the village is sown at the proper season with grain and watermelons;
all the rest is a desert, and abandoned to the Bedouin Arabs, who feed their flocks on it.
There are frequent remains of towers, dungeons, and even of castles with ramparts and ditches,
in some of which are a few Barbary soldiers with nothing but a shirt and a musket. These ruins,
however, are more commonly inhabited by owls, jackals, and scorpions.[71]

The only remarkable antiquity at Ramla is the minaret of a decayed mosque, which, by an Arabic
inscription, appears to have been built by the Sultan of Egypt. From the summit, which is very
lofty, the eye follows the whole chain of mountains, beginning at Nablous, and skirting the
extremity of the plain till it loses itself in the south.

A ride of two hours brings the traveller to the verge of the mountains, where the road opens
through a rugged ravine, and is formed in the dry channel of a torrent. A scene of marked solitude
and desolation surrounds his steps as he pursues his journey in what is so simply described
in the gospel as the "hill country of Judea." He finds himself amid a labyrinth of mountains,
of a conical figure, all nearly alike, and connected with each other at their base. A naked
rock presents strata or beds resembling the seats of a Roman amphitheatre, or the walls which
support the vineyards in the valleys of Savoy. Every recess is filled with dwarf oaks, box,
and rose-laurels. From the bottom of the ravines olive-trees rear their heads, sometimes forming
continuous woods on the sides of the hills. On reaching the most elevated summit of this chain,
he looks down towards the south-west on the beautiful valley of Sharon, bounded by the Great
Sea; before him opens the Vale of St. Jeremiah; and in the same direction, on the top of a
rock, appears in the distance an ancient fortress called the Castle of the Maccabees. It is
conjectured that the author of the Lamentations came into the world in the village which has
retained his name amid these mountains; so much is certain, at least, that the melancholy of
this desolate scene appears to pervade the compositions of the prophet of sorrows.

The unvarying manners of the East exhibit to the view of the stranger, at the present day,
the same picture of rural innocence and simplicity which might have met the eye of the mother
of the Redeemer when she came into this pastoral country to salute her cousin Elizabeth. Herds
of goats, with pendent ears, sheep with large tails, and asses which remind you, by their beauty,
of the onagra of Scripture, issue from the villages at the dawn of day. Arab women are seen
bringing grapes to dry in the vineyards; others with their faces veiled, carrying pitchers
of water on their heads, like the daughters of Midian.

From the Valley of Jeremiah the traveller towards Zion descends into that which bears the name
of Turpentine, and is deeper and narrower than the other. Here are observed some vineyards,
and a few patches of doura. He next arrives at the brook where the youthful David picked up
the five smooth stones, with one of which he slew the gigantic Goliath. Having crossed the
stream, he perceives the village of Heriet-Lefta on the bank of another dry channel, which
resembles a dusty road. El Bir appears in the distance on the summit of a lofty hill on the
way to Nablous, the Shechem of the Israelites and the Neapolis of the Herods. He now pursues
his course through a desert, where wild fig-trees thinly scattered wave their embrowned leaves
in the southern breeze. The ground, which had hitherto exhibited some verdure, becomes altogether
bare; the sides of the mountains, expanding themselves, assume at once an appearance of greater
grandeur and sterility. Presently all vegetation ceases; even the very mosses disappear. The
confused amphitheatre of the mountains is tinged with a red and vivid colour. In this dreary
region he keeps ascending a whole hour to gain an elevated hill which he sees before him; after
which he proceeds during an equal space across a naked plain strewed with loose stones. All
at once, at the extremity of this plain, he perceives a line of Gothic walls flanked with square
towers, and the tops of a few buildings peeping above them;--he beholds Jerusalem, once the
joy of the whole earth!

"I can now account," says M. Chateaubriand, "for the surprise expressed by the crusaders and
pilgrims at the first sight of Jerusalem, according to the reports of historians and travellers.
I can affirm that whoever has, like me, had the patience to read nearly two hundred modern
accounts of the Holy Land; the Rabbinical compilations, and the passages in the ancient writers
respecting Judea, still knows nothing at all about it. I paused with my eyes fixed on Jerusalem,
measuring the height of its walls, reviewing at once all the recollections of history from
the patriarch Abraham to Godfrey of Bouillon, reflecting on the total change accomplished to
the world by the mission of the Son of Man, and in vain seeking that Temple, not one stone
of which is left upon another. Were I to live a thousand years, never should I forget that
desert, which yet seems to be pervaded by the greatness of Jehovah and the terrors of death."[72]

On this occasion a camp of Turkish horse, with all the accompaniments of oriental pomp, was
pitched under the walls. The tents in general were covered with black lambskins, while those
belonging to persons of distinction were formed of striped cloth. The horses, saddled and bridled,
were fastened to stakes. There were four pieces of horse-artillery, well mounted on carriages,
which appeared to be of English manufacture. These fierce soldiers are stationed near the capital,
as well for the purpose of checking the savage Bedouins, who acknowledge no master, as for
enforcing the tribute demanded from all strangers who enter the holy city. The recollections
of the Mussulman, no less than those of the Christian, inspire a reverential feeling for the
town in which David dwelt; and hence, although the European pilgrim be oppressed by the present
laws of Palestine, his motives are usually respected, and even praised.

The reader who has perused with attention some of the more recent works on Palestine must have
been struck with the diversity, and even the apparent contradiction, which prevail in their
descriptions of Jerusalem. According to one, the magnificence of its buildings rivals the most
splendid edifices of modern times, while another could perceive nothing but filth and ruins,
surmounted by a gaudy mosque and a few glittering minarets. The greater number, it must be
acknowledged, have drawn from their own imagination the tints in which they have been pleased
to exhibit the metropolis of Judea; trusting more to the impressions conveyed by the brilliant
delineations of poetry, than to a minute inspection of what they might have seen with their
own eyes.

Dr. Clarke, for example, has allowed his pen to be guided by the ardent muse of Tasso, rather
than by the cool observation of an unbiassed traveller. "No sensation of fatigue or heat,"
says he, "could counterbalance the eagerness and zeal which animated all our party in the approach
to Jerusalem; every individual pressed forward, hoping first to announce the joyful intelligence
of its appearance. We passed some insignificant ruins, either of ancient buildings or of modern
villages; but had they been of more importance they would have excited little notice at the
time, so earnestly bent was every mind towards the main object of interest and curiosity. At
length, after about two hours had been passed in this state of anxiety and suspense, ascending
a hill towards the south--Hagiopolis! exclaimed a Greek in the van of our cavalcade; and, instantly
throwing himself from his horse, was seen upon his knees, bare-headed, facing the prospect
he surveyed. Suddenly the sight burst upon us all. The effect produced was that of total silence
throughout the whole company. Many of our party, by an immediate impulse, took off their hats
as if entering a church, without being sensible of so doing. The Greeks and Catholics shed
torrents of tears; and, presently beginning to cross themselves with unfeigned devotion, asked
if they might be permitted to take off the covering from their feet, and proceed, barefooted
to the Holy Sepulchre. We had not been prepared for the grandeur of the spectacle which the
city alone exhibited. Instead of a wretched and ruined town, by some described as the desolated
remnant of Jerusalem, we beheld, as it were, a flourishing and stately metropolis, presenting
a magnificent assemblage of domes, towers, palaces, churches, and monasteries; all of which,
glittering in the sun's rays, shone with inconceivable splendour. As we drew nearer, our whole
attention was engrossed by its noble and interesting appearance."[73]

The effect produced upon the Christian army when they obtained the first view of the holy city
is beautifully described by the Italian poet, thereby supplying, it may be suspected, the model
which has been so faithfully copied by the English tourist. We avail ourselves of the translation
of Hoole.

  "Now from the golden East the zephyrs borne,
  Proclaimed with balmy gales the approach of morn;
  And fair Aurora decked her radiant head
  With roses cropp'd from Eden's flowery bed;
  When from the sounding camp was heard afar
  The noise of troops preparing for the war:
  To this succeed the trumpet's loud alarms,
  And rouse, with shriller notes, the host to arms.

  "With holy zeal their swelling hearts abound,
  And their wing'd footsteps scarcely print the ground.
  When now the sun ascends the ethereal way,
  And strikes the dusty field with warmer ray;
  Behold, Jerusalem in prospect lies!
  Behold, Jerusalem salutes their eyes!
  At once a thousand tongues repeat the name,
  And hail Jerusalem with loud acclaim!

  "At first, transported with the pleasing sight,
  Each Christian bosom glowed with full delight;
  But deep contrition soon their joy suppressed,
  And holy sorrow saddened every breast;
  Scarce dare their eyes the city walls survey,
  Where clothed in flesh their dear Redeemer lay,
  Whose sacred earth did once their Lord enclose,
  And when triumphant from the grave he rose!

  "Each faltering tongue imperfect speech supplies;
  Each labouring bosom heaves with frequent sighs.
  Each took the example as their chieftains led,
  With naked feet the hallowed soil they tread.
  Each throws his martial ornaments aside,
  The crested helmets with their plumy pride;
  To humble thoughts their lofty hearts they bend,
  And down their cheeks the pious tears descend."[74]

No city assuredly presents a more striking example of the vicissitude of human affairs than
the capital of the Jews. When we behold its walls levelled, its ditches filled up, and all
its buildings embarrassed with ruins, we scarcely can believe we view that celebrated metropolis
which formerly withstood the efforts of the most powerful empires, and for a time resisted
the arms of Rome itself; though, by a whimsical change of fortune, its mouldering edifices
now receive her homage and reverence. "In a word," says Volney, "we with difficulty recognize
Jerusalem." Still more are we astonished at its ancient greatness, when we consider its situation,
amid a rugged soil, destitute of water, and surrounded by the dry channels of torrents and
steep hills. Remote from every great road, it seems not to have been calculated either for
a considerable mart of commerce, or for the centre of a great consumption. It overcame, however,
every obstacle, and may be adduced as a proof of what patriotism and religion may effect in
the hands of a good government, or when favoured by happy circumstances from without. The same
principles, in some degree modified, still preserve to this city its feeble existence. The
renown of its miracles, perpetuated in the East, invites and retains a considerable number
of inhabitants within its walls.[75]

As a contrast to the description of Dr. Clarke, the reader may not be displeased to peruse
the notes of Sir Frederick Henniker on the same subject:--"Jerusalem is called, even by the
Mohammedans, the Blessed City,--the streets of it are narrow and deserted,--the houses dirty
and ragged,--the shops few and forsaken,--and throughout the whole there is not one symptom
of either commerce, comfort, or happiness. Is this the city that men call the Perfection of
Beauty, the Joy of the whole Earth?--The town, which appears to me not worth possession, even
without the trouble of conquest, is walled entirely round, is about a mile in length and half
a mile in width, so that its circumference may be estimated at three miles. In three quarters
of an hour I performed the circuit. It would be difficult to conceive how it could ever have
been larger than it now is; for, independent of the ravines, the four outsides of the city
are marked by the brook of Siloam, by a burial-plate at either end, and by the Hill of Calvary;
and the Hill of Calvary is now within the town, so that it was formerly smaller than it is
at present. The best view of it is from the Mount of Olives; it commands the exact shape, and
nearly every particular, namely, the Church of the Holy Sepulchre, the Armenian Convent, the
Mosque of Omar, St. Stephen's Gate, the round-topped houses, and the barren vacancies of the
city. The Mosque of Omar is the St. Peter's of Turkey. The building itself has a light, pagoda
appearance; the garden in which it stands occupies a considerable part of the city, and contrasted
with the surrounding desert is beautiful; but it is forbidden ground, and Jew or Christian
entering within its precincts must, if discovered, forfeit either his religion or his life."[76]

The observation made by Sir Frederick, in regard to the difficulty and danger of entering the
Mosque of Omar, has been verified on more than one occasion. But the obstacles, apparently
insurmountable, were overcome by Dr. Richardson, who, in return for the successful exercise
of his professional skill, was rewarded by a clandestine visit to the shrine of the Mussulman
saint. It will appear, from the few details which we are about to select from his volume, that
the veil of mystery does not conceal anything really worth seeing. Like Pompey in the Temple,
the Christian visiter, whose presence, in like manner, profanes the holy place, feels no other
surprise than is occasioned by the fact, that men have agreed to excite curiosity by prohibiting
an imaginary gratification.

"On our arrival at the door, a gentle knock brought up the sacristan, who, apprized of our
intention, was within waiting to receive us. He demanded, rather sternly, who we were, and
was answered by my black conductor in tones no less consequential than his own. The door immediately
edged up, to prevent as much as possible the light from shining out, and we squeezed ourselves
in with a gentle and noiseless step, although there was no person near who could be alarmed
by the loudest sound of our bare feet upon the marble floor. The door was no sooner shut than
the sacristan, taking a couple of candles in his hand, showed us all over the interior of the
building, pointing, in the pride of his heart, to the elegant marble walls, the beautifully-gilded
ceiling, the well where the true worshippers drink and wash,--with which we also blessed our
palates and moistened our beards,--the paltry reading-desk with the ancient Koran, the handsome
columns, and the green stone with the wonderful nails. As soon as we had completed this circuit,
pulling a key from his girdle, he unlocked the door of the railing that separates the outer
from the inner part of the mosque, which, with an elevation of two or three steps, let us into
the sacred recess. Here he pointed out the patches of mosaic in the floor, the round flat stone
which the Prophet carried on his arm in battle, directed us to introduce our hand through the
hole in the wooden box, to feel the print of the Prophet's foot, and, through the posts of
the wooden rail, to feel as well as to see the marks of the angel Gabriel's fingers (into which
I carefully put my own) in the sacred stone that occupies the centre of the mosque, and from
which it derives the name of Sakhara or Locked-up, and over which is suspended a fine cloth
of green and red satin. It was so covered with dust that, but for the information of my guide,
I should not have been able to tell the composing colours. Finally, he pointed to the door
that leads into the small cavern below, of which he had not the key.

"I looked up to the interior of the dome; but, there being few lamps burning, the light was
not sufficient to show me any of its beauty farther than a general glance. The columns and
curiosities were counted over again and again, the arches were specially examined and enumerated,
to be sure that I had not missed nor forgotten any of them. Writing would have been an ungracious
behaviour, calculated to excite a thousand suspicions, that next day would have gone to swell
the current of the city gossip, to the prejudice both of myself and of my friend. Having examined
the adytum, we once more touched the footstep of the Prophet and the finger-prints of the angel
Gabriel, and descended the steps, over which the door was immediately secured."[77]

Dr. Richardson was afterward permitted to visit this splendid mosque during the day, when he
found that the dimensions of the enclosure in which it stands is about fifteen hundred feet
in length, and a thousand in breadth. In the sacred retirement of this charming spot, the followers
of the Prophet delight to saunter, or repose, as in the elysium of their devotions; and, arrayed
in the gorgeous costume of the East, add much to the interest, the beauty, and solemn stillness
of the scene, from which they seem loath to retire. The Sakhara itself is a regular octagon
of about sixty feet a side, and is entered by four spacious doors, each of which is adorned
with a porch projecting from the line of the building and rising considerably on the wall.
All the sides of it are paneled. The centre stone of one panel is square, of another it is
octagonal, and thus they alternate all round; the sides of each running down the angles like
a plain pilaster, and giving an appearance as if the whole were set in a frame. The marble
is white, with a considerable tinge of blue; square pieces of the latter colour being introduced
in different places, so as to confer upon the exterior a very pleasing effect. The upper story
is faced with small tiles painted of different colours, white, yellow, green, and blue; some
of them are also covered with sentences from the Koran. At this height there are seven elegant
windows on each side, except where the porches interfere, and then there are only six; the
general appearance of the edifice being extremely light and beautiful, more especially from
the mixture of the soft colours above and the delicate tints of the marble in the main body
of the structure.

The interior fully corresponds to the magnificence and beauty just described. There are twenty-four
marble columns, placed parallel to the eight sides of the building, three opposite to each
side, so as still to preserve the octagonal form. Eight of them are large plain pillars belonging
to no particular order of architecture, and all standing opposite to the eight entering angles
of the edifice, and deeply indented on the inner side; so that they furnish an acute termination
to the octagonal lines within. Between every two of the square columns there are two of a round
figure, well proportioned, and resting on a base. They are from eighteen to twenty feet high,
with a sort of Corinthian capital. A large square plinth of marble extends from the top of
the one column to the other, and above it there is constructed a number of arches all round,
which support the inner end of the roof or ceiling, the outer end resting upon the walls of
the building. This is composed of wood, or plaster, highly ornamented with a species of carving,
and richly gilt.

But this gorgeous temple owes both its name and existence to a large irregular mass of stone,
having an oblong shape, which still occupies the centre of the mosque. It is a portion of the
calcareous rock on which the city is built, and which prevails in the other mountains in the
neighbourhood of Jerusalem, having very much the appearance of being a part of the bed that
might have been left when the foundation of the building was levelled. It rises highest towards
the south-west corner, and falls abruptly at the end, where are the prints of the Prophet's
foot. It is irregular on the upper surface, the same as when it was broken from the quarry.
It is enclosed all round with a wooden rail about four feet high, and which in every place
is nearly in contact with the stone. We have already mentioned that there is a cover or canopy
of variously-coloured silk suspended over it; and nothing, we are assured can be held in higher
veneration than the Hadjr-el-sakhara, the Locked-up Stone.[78]

But this fragment of limestone has more weighty pretensions to the veneration of the Moslem
than the mere print of the angel Gabriel's fingers or of the Prophet's foot; for, like the
Palladium of ancient Troy, it is said to have fallen from heaven on this very spot, at the
time when prophecy commenced in Jerusalem. It was employed as a seat by the venerable men to
whom that gift was communicated; and, as long as the spirit of vaticination continued to enlighten
their minds, the slab remained steady for their accommodation. But no sooner was the power
of prophecy withdrawn, and the persecuted seers compelled to flee for safety to other lands,
than the stone is declared to have manifested the profoundest sympathy in their fate, and even
to have resolved to accompany them in their flight. On this occasion Gabriel the archangel
interposed his authority, and prevented the departure of the prophetical chair. He grasped
it with his mighty hand, and nailed it to its rocky bed till the arrival of Mohammed, who,
horsed on the lightning's wing, flew thither from Mecca, joined the society of seventy thousand
ministering spirits, and, having offered up his devotions to the throne of God, fixed the stone
immovably in this holy site, around which the Caliph Omar erected his magnificent mosque.

Within the same enclosure there is another house of prayer called El Aksa, which, though a
fine building, is greatly inferior to El Sakhara. Between the two there is a beautiful fountain,
which takes its name from a clump of orange-trees overshadowing its water. The mosque is composed
of seven naves supported by pillars and columns, and at the head of the centre nave is a fine
cupola. Two others branch off at right angles to the principal body of the edifice. Before
it is a portico of seven arches in front and one in depth, supported by square pillars. Ali
Bey, who in his character of Mussulman was permitted to examine the holy fane at leisure, describes
the great central nave of the Aksa as about 162 feet long and 32 broad. It is supported on
each side by seven arches lightly pointed, resting upon cylindrical pillars, in the form of
columns, but without any architectural proportion, with foliaged capitals which do not belong
to any order. The fourth pillar to the right of the entrance is octangular, and enormously
thick. It is called the pillar of Sidi Omar. The walls rise 13 feet above the tops of the arches,
and contain two rows of twenty-one windows each. The roof is of timber, without being vaulted.
The cupola is supported by four large arches resting upon four square pillars. It is spherical,
with two rows of windows, and is ornamented with arabesque paintings and gilding of exquisite
beauty. Its diameter is equal to that of the central nave.

M. Burckhardt describes the Holy House in Jerusalem as a union of several buildings erected
at different periods of Islamism, bearing upon them demonstrative proofs of the prevailing
taste of the various ages in which they were successively constructed. It is not precisely
one mosque, but a group of mosques. Its name in Arabic, El Haram, strictly signifies a temple
or place consecrated by the peculiar presence of the Divinity. The profane and the infidel
are forbidden to enter it. The Mussulman religion acknowledges but two temples, those, namely,
of Mecca and of Jerusalem; both are called El Haram; both are equally prohibited by law to
Christians, Jews, and every other person who is not a believer in the Prophet. The mosques,
on the other hand, are considered merely as places of meeting for certain acts of worship,
and are not held so especially consecrated as to demand the total exclusion of all who do not
profess the true faith. Entrance into them is not denied to the unbeliever by any statute of
the Mohammedan law; and hence it is not uncommon for Christians at Constantinople to receive
from the government a written order to visit even the Mosque of St. Sophia. But the sultan
himself could not grant permission to an infidel either to pass into the territory of Mecca,
or to enter the Temple of Jerusalem. A firman granting such privileges would be regarded as
a most horrid sacrilege: it would not be respected by the people; and the favoured object would
inevitably become the victim of his own imprudent boldness.[79]

In the interior of the rock whereon the Sakhara stands there is a cave, into which Dr. Richardson
could not obtain admittance. He was four times in the mosque, and went twice thither under
the express assurance that its doors should be thrown open to him. But when he arrived the
key was always wanting, and when the keeper of it was sought he could never be found. Ali Bey,
who encountered no obstacle, reveals all the mystery of this subterranean mansion. It is a
room forming an irregular square of about eighteen feet surface, and eight feet high in the
middle. The roof is that of a natural vault, quite irregular. In descending the staircase,
there is upon the right-hand, near the bottom, a little tablet of marble, bearing the name
of El Makam Souleman, the Place of Solomon. A similar one upon the left is named El Makam Daoud,
the Place of David. A cavity or niche on the south-west side of the rock is called El Makam
Ibrahim, the Place of Abraham. A similar concave step at the north-west angle is described
as El Makam Djibrila, the Place of Gabriel; and a sort of stone table at the north-east angle
is denominated El Makam el Hoder, the Place of Elias. In the roof of the apartment, exactly
in the middle, there is an aperture almost cylindrical through the whole thickness of the rock,
about three feet in diameter. This is the Place of the Prophet.

M. Burckhardt observed a copy of the Koran, the leaves of which were four feet long, and more
than two feet and a half broad. Tradition reports that it belonged to the Caliph Omar; but
he saw a similar one in the grand mosque at Cairo, and another at Mecca, to both of which the
same origin is assigned. The drawings supplied by this enterprising traveller give a very distinct
notion of the extent and magnificence of the great Mussulman temple,--the most prominent object
in the modern Jerusalem, and occupying the site of the still more interesting edifice erected
by Solomon in the proudest period of Jewish history.

But the Christian pilgrim, who walks about the holy city "to tell her towers and mark her bulwarks,"
is more readily attracted by less splendid objects, the memorials of his own more humble faith.
Among these the most remarkable is the Church of the Holy Sepulchre, which is built on the
lower part of the sloping hill distinguished by the name of Acre, near the place where it is
joined to Mount Moriah. The Turkish government, aware of the veneration which all Christians
entertain for relics in any way connected with the sufferings of the great Author of their
religion, have converted this feeling into a source of revenue; every person not subject to
the Sublime Porte, who visits the shrine of Jesus Christ, being compelled to pay a certain
sum of money for admittance. But the church, nevertheless, is opened only on particular days
of the week, and cannot be seen at any other time without an order from the two convents, the
Latin and the Greek, with the sanction of the governor of the city. On such occasions the pressure
at the doors is very great; the zeal of the pilgrims checked by the insolence of the Turks,
who delight to insult and disappoint their anxiety, leading sometimes to scenes of tumult not
quite in harmony with their pious motives. We shall give an account of the effect produced
by the local and historical associations of the place on a sober spirit, in the words of a
traveller to whom we have been already indebted:--

"The mind is not withdrawn from the important concerns of this hallowed spot by any tasteful
decorations or dignified display of architecture in its plan or in its walls; but having cleared
the throng, the religion of the place is allowed to take full possession of the soul, and the
visiter feels as if he were passing into the presence of the great and immaculate Jehovah,
and summoned to give an account of the most silent and secret thoughts of his heart. Having
passed within these sacred walls, the attention is first directed to a large flat stone in
the floor, a little within the door; it is surrounded by a rail, and several lamps hang suspended
over it. The pilgrims approach it on their knees; touch and kiss it, and prostrating themselves
before it, offer up their prayers in holy adoration. This is the stone on which the body of
our Lord was washed and anointed and prepared for the tomb. Turning to the left and proceeding
a little forward, we came into a round space immediately under the dome, surrounded with sixteen
large columns which support the gallery above. In the centre of this space stands the Holy
Sepulchre; it is enclosed in an oblong house, rounded at one end with small arcades or chapels
for prayer, on the outside of it. These are for the Copts, the Abyssinians, the Syrian Mareonites,
and other Christians, who are not, like the Roman Catholics, the Greeks, and Armenians, provided
with large chapels in the body of the church. At the other end it is squared off and furnished
with a platform in front, which is ascended by a flight of steps, having a small parapet-wall
of marble on each hand, and floored with the same material. Advancing, and taking off our shoes
and turbans at the desire of the keeper, he drew aside the curtain, and stepping down, and
bending almost to the ground, we entered by a low narrow door into this mansion of victory,
where Christ triumphed over the grave, and disarmed Death of all his terrors. Here the mind
looks on Him who, though he knew no sin, yet entered the mansions of the dead to redeem us
from death, and the prayers of a grateful heart ascend with a risen Saviour to the presence
of God in heaven."[80]

The tomb exhibited is a sarcophagus of white marble, slightly tinged with blue, being fully
six feet long, three feet broad, and two feet two inches deep. It is but indifferently polished,
and seems as if it had at one time been exposed to the action of the atmosphere, by which it
has been considerably affected. It is without any ornament, made in the Greek fashion, and
not like the more ancient tombs of the Jews, which we see cut in the rock for the reception
of the dead. There are seven lamps constantly burning over it, the gifts of different sovereigns
in a succession of ages. It occupies about one-half of the sepulchral chamber, and extends
from one end of it to the other. A space about three feet wide in front of it is all that remains
for the accommodation of visiters, so that not more than three or four can be conveniently
admitted at a time.

Leaving this hallowed spot, the pilgrim is conducted to the place where our Lord appeared to
Mary Magdalene, and next to the Chapel of Apparition, where he presented himself to the Blessed
Virgin. The Greeks have an oratory opposite to the Holy Sepulchre, in which they have set up
a globe, representing, as they are pleased to imagine, the centre of the earth; thus transferring
from Delphi to Jerusalem the absurd notions of the pagan priests of antiquity relative to the
figure of the habitable world. After this he enters a dark narrow staircase, which, by about
twenty steps, carries him to Mount Calvary. "This," exclaims Dr. Richardson, "is the centre,
the grand magnet of the Christian church: from this proceed life and salvation; thither all
hearts tend and all eyes are directed; here kings and queens cast down their crowns, and great
men and women part with their ornaments; at the foot of the cross all are on a level, equally
needy and equally welcome."[81]

On Calvary is shown the spot where the Redeemer was nailed to the cross, the hole into which
the end of it was fixed, and the rent in the rock. All these are covered with marble, perforated
in the proper places, so that they may be seen and touched. Near at hand a cross is erected
on an elevated part of the ground, and a wooden body stretched upon it in the attitude of suffering.
Descending from the Mount, the traveller enters the chapel of St. Helens, the mother of Constantine,
in which is the vault where the true cross is said to have been found,--an event that continues
to be celebrated every year on the third of May by an appropriate mass. The place is large
enough to contain about thirty or forty individuals, and on that annual solemnity it is usually
crowded to the door.

The spirit in which these commemorations are sometimes performed is by no means honourable
to the Christian character. An ancient rivalry between the members of the Greek and those of
the Roman communion continues to imbitter their disputes in regard to their respective privileges
and procedure. Maundrell informs us that in his time each fraternity had their own altar and
sanctuary, at which they had a peculiar right to celebrate divine services and to exclude all
other nations. But, says he, that which has always been the great prize contended for by the
several sects, is the command and appropriation of the holy Sepulchre; a privilege contested
with so much unchristian fury and animosity, especially between the Greeks and Latins that,
in disputing which party should go in to celebrate their mass, they have sometimes proceeded
to blows and wounds, even at the very door of the sepulchre, mingling their own blood with
their sacrifices. The King of Franca interposed about the end of the seventeenth century, and
obtained an order for the grand vizier to put that holy place into the possession of the Western
Church; an arrangement which was accomplished in the year 1690, and secured to the Latins the
exclusive privilege of saying mass in it. "And though it be permitted to Christians of all
nations to go into it for their private devotions, yet none other may solemnize any public
office of religion there."[82]

The daily employment of these recluses is to trim the lamps, and to make devotional visits
and processions to the several sanctuaries in the church. Thus they spend their time, many
of them for four or six years together; nay, so far are some transported with the pleasing
contemplation in which they here entertain themselves, that they will never come out to their
dying day; burying themselves, as it were, alive in our Lord's grave.

It was at the holy season of Easter that Mr. Maundrell visited Jerusalem, when he witnessed
the annual service performed by the monks; rather too minutely descriptive, perhaps, of the
great event to which it refers. "Their ceremony begins on Good Friday night, which is called
by them the Nox Tenebrosa, and is observed with such an extraordinary solemnity that I cannot
omit to give a particular description of it:--As soon as it grew dark, all the friars and pilgrims
were convened in the chapel of the Apparition, in order to go in a procession round the church.
But before they set out one of the friars preached a sermon in Italian: He began his discourse
thus:--In questa notte tenebrosa,--at which words all the candles were instantly put out, to
yield a livelier image of the occasion: and so we were held the preacher for nearly half an
hour very much in the dark. Sermon being ended, every person present had a large lighted taper
put into his hand, as if it were to make amends for the former darkness; and the crucifixes
and other utensils were disposed in order for beginning the procession. Among the other crucifixes
there was one of a very large size, which bore upon it the image of our Lord as big as the
life. The image was fastened to it with great nails, crowned with thorns, and besmeared with
blood; and so exquisitely was it formed, that it represented, in a very lively manner, the
lamentable spectacle of our Lord's body as it hung upon the cross. This figure was carried
all along in the head of the procession; after which the company followed to all the sanctuaries
in the church, singing their appointed hymn at every one.

"The first place they visited was that of the pillar of Flagellation, a large piece of which
is kept in a little cell just at the door of the chapel of the Apparition. There they sang
their proper hymn; and another friar entertained the company with a sermon in Spanish, touching
the scourging of our Lord. From hence they proceeded in solemn order to the prison of Christ,
where they pretend he was secured while the soldiers made things ready for his crucifixion;
here likewise they sang their hymn, and a third friar preached in French. From the prison they
went to the altar of the Division of our Lord's garments, where they only sang their hymn without
adding any sermon. Having done here, they advanced to the chapel of the Division; at which,
after their hymn, they had a fourth sermon, as I remember, in French.

"From this place they went up to Calvary, leaving their shoes at the bottom of the stairs.
Here are two altars to be visited; one where our Lord is supposed to have been nailed to the
cross, another where his cross was erected. At the former of these they laid down the great
crucifix upon the floor, and acted a kind of resemblance of Christ's being nailed to the cross;
and after the hymn another friar preached a sermon in Spanish upon the crucifixion. From hence
they removed to the adjoining altar, where the cross is supposed to have been erected, bearing
the image of our Lord's body. At this altar is a hole in the natural rock, said to be the very
same individual one in which the foot of our Lord's cross stood. Here they set up their cross
with the bloody crucified image upon it; and leaving it in that posture, they first sang their
hymn, and then the father guardian, sitting in a chair before it, preached a passion sermon
in Italian.

"At about one yard and a half distant from the hole in which the foot of the cross was fixed
is seen that memorable cleft in the rock, said to have been made by the earthquake which happened
at the suffering of the God of nature; when, as St. Matthew witnesseth, the rocks rent and
the very graves were opened. This cleft, or what now appears of it, is about a span wide at
its upper part, and two deep; after which it closes. But it opens again below, as you may see
in another chapel contiguous to the side of Calvary, and runs down to an unknown depth in the
earth. That this rent was made by the earthquake that happened at our Lord's passion there
is only tradition to prove; but that it is a natural and genuine breach, and not counterfeited
by any art, the sense and reason of every one that sees it may convince him; for the sides
of it fit like two tallies to each other, and yet it runs in such intricate windings as could
not well be counterfeited by art, nor arrived at by any instruments.

"The ceremony of the passion being over, and the guardian's sermon ended, two friars, personating,
the one Joseph of Arimathea, the other Nicodemus, approached the cross, and with a most solemn,
concerned air, both of aspect and behaviour, drew out the great nails, and took down the feigned
body from the cross. It was an effigies so contrived that its limbs were soft and flexible,
as if they had been real flesh; and nothing could be more surprising that to see the two pretended
mourners bend down the arms which were before extended, and dispose them upon the trunk in
such a manner as is usual in corpses. The body being taken down from the cross was received
in a fair large winding-sheet, and carried down from Calvary; the whole company attending as
before to the stone of Unction. This is taken for the very place where the precious body of
our Lord was annointed and prepared for the burial. Here they laid down their imaginary corpse;
and casting over it several sweet powders and spices, wrapped it up in the winding-sheet. While
this was doing they sang their proper hymn, and afterward one of the friars preached in Arabic
a funeral-sermon. These obsequies being finished, they carried off their fancied corpse and
laid it in the Sepulchre, shutting up the door till Easter morning. And now, after so many
sermons, and so long, not to say tedious, a ceremony, it may well be imagined that the weariness
of the congregation, as well as the hour of the night, made it needful to go to rest."[83]

Easter-eve passed without any remarkable observance,--a period of leisure which was employed
by many of the pilgrims in having their arms marked with the usual ensigns of Jerusalem. "The
artists who undertake the operation do it in this manner; they have stamps of wood of any figure
that you desire, which they first print off upon your arm with powder of charcoal, then taking
two very fine needles tied close together, and dipping them often, like a pen, in certain ink
compounded, as I was informed, of gun-powder and ox-gall, they make with them small punctures
all along the lines of the figure which they have printed; and then, washing the part in wine,
conclude the work. The punctures they make with great quickness and dexterity, and with scarce
any smart, seldom piercing so deep as to draw blood. In the afternoon of this day the congregation
was assembled in the area before the holy grave; where the friars spent some hours in singing
over the Lamentations of Jeremiah; which function, with the usual procession to the holy places,
was all the ceremony required by the ritual of the place."

On Easter-day the scene was changed from gloom to the most lively congratulation. "The clouds
of the former morning were cleared up; and the friars put on a face of joy and serenity, as
if it had been the real juncture of our Lord's resurrection. Nor doubtless was this joy feigned,
whatever their mourning might be; this being the day on which their Lenten disciplines expired,
and they were now come to a full belly again. The mass was celebrated this morning just before
the Holy Sepulchre, being the most eminent place in the church; where the father guardian had
a throne erected, and being arrayed in episcopal robes, with a mitre on his head, in the sight
of the Turks he gave the Host to all that were disposed to receive it; not refusing it to children
of seven or eight years old. This office being ended, we made our exit out of the Sepulchre,
and returning to the convent, dined with the friars."[84]

The latest travellers in Palestine witnessed similar observances on the same solemn occasion,
none of which were in the least calculated to edify an enlightened mind, and many of them such
as could not be contemplated without feelings of just indignation, mingled with contempt.

There is no greater obstacle to the propagation of Christianity among the Syrian tribes, and
more especially among the Turks and Jews, than the foolish exhibitions which disgrace the return
of the principal festivals in the Holy Land. The mummeries already described could not fail
to be sufficiently revolting to a people who permit not any image or representation of created
things, even in the uses of ordinary life. Still, the sincerity and apparent devotion with
which the ceremony of the crucifixion was performed might, in some degree, atone for the unseemly
method adopted by the monks to commemorate an event at once so solemn and important. But what
shall be said in defence of the manifest fraud which is annually practised in Jerusalem on
Easter-eve by the Greek church, when the credulous multitude are taught to believe that fire
descends from heaven into the Holy Sepulchre to kindle their lamps and torches?

Upon comparing the description given by Maundrell with the accounts of the latest travellers,
we perceive that nearly a century and a half has passed away without producing any improvement,
and that the friars of the present age are probably not less ignorant or dishonest than their
predecessors five hundred years ago. "They began their disorders by running round the Holy
Sepulchre with all their might and swiftness, crying out as they went huia, which signifies
this is he, or this is it,--an expression by which they assert the verity of the Christian
religion. After they had by these religious circulations and clamours turned their heads and
inflamed their madness, they began to act the moat antic tricks and postures in a thousand
shapes of distraction. Sometimes they dragged one another along the floor all round the Sepulchre;
sometimes they set one man upright upon another's shoulders, and in this posture marched round;
sometimes they tumbled round the Sepulchre after the manner of tumblers on the stage. In a
word, nothing can be imagined more rude or extravagant than what was acted upon this occasion."[85]

"The Greeks first set out in a procession round the Holy Sepulchre, and immediately at their
heels followed the Armenians. In this order they compassed the Holy Sepulchre thrice, having
produced all their gallantry of standards, streamers, crucifixes, and embroidered habits. Towards
the end of this procession there was a pigeon came fluttering into the cupola over the Sepulchre,
at sight of which there was a greater shout and clamour than before. This bird, the Latins
told us, was purposely let fly by the Greeks to deceive the people into an opinion that it
was a visible descent of the Holy Ghost. The procession being over, the suffragan of the Greek
patriarch and the principal Armenian bishop approached to the door of the Sepulchre, and, cutting
the string with which it is fastened and sealed, entered in, shutting the door after them,
all the candles and lamps within having been before extinguished in the presence of the Turks
and other witnesses. The exclamations were doubled as the miracle drew nearer to its accomplishment;
and the people pressed with such vehemence towards the door of the Sepulchre that it was not
in the power of the Turks to keep them off. The cause of their pressing in this manner is,
the great desire they have to light their candles at the holy flame as soon as it is first
brought out of the Sepulchre, it being esteemed the most sacred and pure as coming immediately
from heaven. The two miracle-mongers had not been above a minute in the Holy Sepulchre when
the glimmering of the holy fire was seen, or imagined to appear, through some chinks in the
door; and, certainly, Bedlam itself never saw such an unruly transport as was produced in the
mob at this sight.

"Immediately after, out came two priests with blazing torches in their hands, which they held
up at the door of the Sepulchre; while the people thronged about with inexpressible ardour,
every one striving to obtain a part of the first and purest flame. The Turks, in the mean time,
with huge clubs laid on without mercy; but all this could not repel them, the excess of their
fury making them insensible of pain. Those that got the fire applied it immediately to their
beards, faces, and bosoms, pretending that it would not burn like an earthly flame. But I plainly
saw none of them could endure this experiment long enough to make good that pretension. So
many hands being employed, you may be sure it could not be long before innumerable tapers were
lighted. The whole church, galleries, and every place seemed instantly to be in a flame; and
with this illumination the ceremony ended.

"It must be owned that those two within the Sepulchre performed their part with great quickness
and dexterity; but the behaviour of the rabble without very much discredited the miracle. The
Latins take a great deal of pains to expose this ceremony as a most shameful imposture and
a scandal to the Christian religion,--perhaps out of envy that others should be masters of
so gainful a business. But the Greeks and Armenians pin their faith upon it; such is the deplorable
unhappiness of their priests, that having acted the cheat so long already, they are forced
now to stand to it for fear of endangering the apostacy of their people. Going out of church
after the rant was over, we saw several people gathered about the Stone of Unction, who, having
got a good store of candles lighted with the holy fire, were employed in daubing pieces of
linen with the wicks of them and the melting wax, which pieces of linen were designed for winding-sheets.
And it is the opinion of these poor people, that if they can but have the happiness to be buried
in a shroud smutted with this celestial fire, it will certainly secure them from the flames
of hell."[86]

Dr. Richardson, who witnessed the same pitiful ceremony, is not inclined to give much honour
to the performers in respect to skill or dexterous manipulation. On the contrary, he is of
opinion that there is not a pyrotechnist in London who could not have improved the exhibition.
From the station which he occupied in the church, being the organ-loft of the Roman Catholic
division, he distinctly saw the flame issuing from a burning substance placed within the tomb,
and which was raised and lowered according to circumstances. The priests meant to be very artful,
but were in reality very ignorant. Like the Druids of old, no one, under the pain of excommunication,
dared to light his torch at that of another; every individual was bound to derive his flame
from the miraculous spark that descended from above, and which could only be conveyed by the
hands of the chief priest.[87]

Having seen the exhibition of this vile and infamous delusion, the traveller naturally inquires
what credit he ought to give to the historical statements and local descriptions derived from
the Christians who now occupy Jerusalem. Are the honoured spots within these walls really what
the guardians of the metropolitan church declare them to be? Is the Mount Calvary shown at
this day in the holy city the actual place where Christ expired upon the cross to redeem the
human race? Is the Sepulchre there exhibited really that of the just man Joseph of Arimathea,
in which the body of the blessed Jesus was laid? Or are all these merely convenient spots,
fixed on at random, and consecrated to serve the interested views of a crafty priesthood?[88]

We agree in the conclusion, that it is of no consequence to the Christian faith in what way
these questions shall be determined. The great facts on which the history of the gospel is
founded are not so closely connected with particular spots of earth or sacred buildings as
to be rendered doubtful by any mistake in the choice of a locality. Nor is there any material
discrepancy between the opinions of Chateaubriand, which we are inclined to adopt, and those
of Dr. Clarke, who treats with contempt all the traditions respecting holy places; for the
outline may be correct, although the minuter details are open to a just suspicion. For example,
it is now extremely difficult to trace the boundaries of Calvary; the effects of time and the
operations of the siege under the Roman prince have obliterated some of the features by which
that remarkable scene was distinguished; it has even ceased to present the appearance of a
mount--an appellation, by-the-way, which is nowhere given to it in Scripture. But it does not
follow that the Christians who returned from Pella to inhabit the ruins of the sacred metropolis
should have been equally ignorant of its extent and situation; nor is it at all probable that
places so interesting to the affections of the infant church would be allowed to fall into
a speedy oblivion.

The main error of the modern priests at Jerusalem arises from an anxiety to exhibit every thing
to which any allusion is made by the evangelical historians; not remembering that the lapse
of ages and the devastation of successive wars have destroyed much, and disguised more, which
the early disciples could most readily identify. The mere circumstance that almost all the
events which attended the close of our Saviour's ministry are crowded into one scene, covered
by the roof of a single church, might excite a very justifiable doubt as to the exactness of
the topography maintained by the friars of Mount Moriah. "This edifice," says Mr. Maundrell,
"is less than one hundred paces long, and not more than sixty wide; and yet it is so contrived,
that it is supposed to contain under its roof twelve or thirteen sanctuaries, or places consecrated
to a more than ordinary veneration, by being reputed to have some particular actions done in
them relating to the death and resurrection of Christ."[89]

All that can now be affirmed, observes Dr. Clarke, with any show of reason, is this, "that
if Helena had reason to believe she could identify the spot where the Sepulchre was, she took
especial care to remove every trace of it, in order to introduce the fanciful and modern work
which now remains. The place may be the same pointed out to her; but not a remnant of the original
Sepulchre can now be ascertained. Yet, with our skeptical feelings thus awakened, it may prove
how powerful the effect of sympathy is, if we confess, that when we entered into the supposed
Sepulchre, and beheld, by the light of lamps there continually burning, the venerable figure
of an aged monk, with streaming eyes and a long white beard, pointing to 'the place where the
Lord lay,' and calling upon us to kneel and experience pardon for our sins,--we did kneel,
and we participated in the feelings of more credulous pilgrims. Captain Culverhouse, in whose
mind the ideas of religion and of patriotism were inseparable, with firmer emotion, drew from
its scabbard the sword he had so often wielded in the defence of his country, and placed it
upon the tomb. Humbler comers heaped the memorials of an accomplished pilgrimage; and while
their sighs alone interrupted the silence of the sanctuary a solemn service was begun."[90]

It is observed by the author of the Itineraire, that the ancient travellers were extremely
fortunate in not being obliged to enter into all these critical disquisitions; in the first
place, because they found in their readers that religion which never contends against truth;
and, secondly, because every mind was convinced that the only way of seeing a country as it
is must be to see it with all its traditions and recollections. It is, in fact, with the Bible
as his guide that a traveller ought to visit the Holy Land. If we are determined to carry with
us a spirit of cavil and contradiction, Judea is not worth our going so far to examine it.
What should we say to a man who, in traversing Greece and Italy, should think of nothing but
contradicting Homer and Virgil? Such, however, is the course adopted by too many modern travellers;
evidently the effect of our vanity, which would excite a high idea of our own abilities, and
at the same time fill us with disdain for those of other people.[91]

A short time after M. Chateaubriand visited Jerusalem, the church of the Holy Sepulchre was
destroyed by fire; and although it has been since repaired, it is admitted that both the architecture
and the internal decorations are much inferior to those of the original edifice. The general
plan of the whole building, however, as well as the arrangement of the holy stations, are so
exactly preserved, that the descriptions of the earliest writers apply as correctly to its
present as to its former state. It is true, that the tombs of Godfrey de Bouillon and of Baldwin
his brother, which called forth the enthusiastic admiration of the French author just named,
have been annihilated by the malignant Greeks, so that not a vestige remains to mark the spot
whereon they stood. The Corinthian columns of fine marble which formerly adorned the interior
being rendered useless by the fire, the dome is now supported by tall slender pillars of masonry,
plastered on the outside, and so closely grouped together as to produce the worst effect. We
are told, indeed, that the meanness of every thing about the architecture of the central dome,
and of the whole rotunda which surrounds the Sepulchre itself, can only be exceeded by the
wretched taste of its painted decorations.[92]

It was of the older building that the Vicomte made the following remarks:--"The church of the
Holy Sepulchre, composed of several churches erected upon an unequal surface, illumined by
a multitude of lamps, is singularly mysterious; a sombre light pervades it, favourable to piety
and profound devotion. Christian priests of various sects inhabit different parts of the edifice.
From the arches above, where they nestle like pigeons, from the chapels below and subterraneous
vaults, their songs are heard at all hours both of the day and night. The organ of the Latin
monks, the cymbals of the Abyssinian priest, the voice of the Greek caloyer, the prayer of
the solitary Armenian, the plaintive accents of the Coptic friar, alternately, or all at once,
assail your ear. You know not whence these accents of praise proceed; you inhale the perfume
of incense without perceiving the hand that burns it: you merely observe the pontiff, who is
going to celebrate the most awful of mysteries on the very spot where they were accomplished,
pass quickly by, glide behind the columns, and vanish in the gloom of the temple.

"Christian readers will perhaps inquire what were my feelings upon entering this sacred place.
I really cannot tell. So many reflections rushed at once upon my mind, that I was unable to
dwell upon any particular idea. I continued nearly half an hour upon my knees in the little
chamber of the Holy Sepulchre, with my eyes riveted upon the stone, from which I had not the
power to turn them. One of the two monks who accompanied me remained prostrate on the marble
by my side, while the other, with the Testament in his hand, read to me by the light of the
lamps the passages relating to the sacred tomb. All I can say is that when I beheld this triumphant
Sepulchre, I felt nothing but my own weakness; and that when my guide exclaimed with St. Paul,
O death, where is thy sting? O grave, where is thy victory? I listened, as if death were about
to reply that he was conquered and enchained in this monument. Where shall we look in antiquity
for anything so impressive, so wonderful, as the last scenes described by the Evangelists?
These are not the absurd adventures of a deity foreign to human nature: it is a most pathetic
history,--a history which not only extorts tears by its beauty, but whose consequences, applied
to the universe, have changed the face of the earth. I had just beheld the monuments of Greece,
and my mind was still profoundly impressed with their grandeur; but how far inferior were the
sentiments which they excited to those I felt at the sight of the places commemorated in the
gospel!"[93]

We must not presume to follow the ardent pilgrim along the Via Dolorosa, the name given to
the way which the Saviour passed from the house of Pilate to the Mount of Calvary, nor can
we stop to revere the arch, called Ecce Homo, where, we are told, the window may still be seen
from which the Roman judge exclaimed to the vindictive Jews, "Behold the Man!" We cannot resign
our belief to the minute description which recognises the house of Simon the Pharisee, where
Mary Magdalene confessed her sins; the prison of St. Peter, and the dwelling of Mary the mother
of Mark, in which the same apostle took refuge when he was set at liberty by the angel; and
the mansion of Dives, the rich man at whose gate the mendicant Lazarus was laid, full of sores.

On crossing the small ravine which divides the modern city from Mount Zion, the attention of
the traveller is drawn to three ancient monuments, or more properly ruins. Covered with buildings
comparatively modern,--the house of Caiaphas,--the place where Christ held his Last Supper,--and
the tomb or palace of David. The first of these is now a church, the duty of which is performed
by the Armenians; the second, consecrated by the affecting solemnity, with the memory of which
it is still associated, presents a mosque and a Turkish hospital; while the third, a small
vaulted apartment, contains only three sepulchres formed of dark-coloured atone. This holy
hill is equally celebrated in the Old Testament and in the New. Here the successor of Saul
built a city and a royal dwelling,--here he kept for three months the Ark of the Covenant;--here
the Redeemer instituted the sacrament which commemorates his death,--here he appeared to his
disciples on the day of his resurrection,--and here the Holy Ghost descended on the apostles.
The place hallowed by the Last Supper, if we may believe the early Fathers, was transformed
into the first Christian temple the world ever saw, where St. James the Less was consecrated
the first bishop of Jerusalem, and where he presided in the first council of the church. Finally,
it was from this spot that the apostles, in compliance with the injunction to go and teach
all nations, departed, without purse and without scrip, to seat their religion upon all the
thrones of the earth.

Descending Mount Zion on the east side, you perceive in the valley the Fountain and Pool of
Siloam, so celebrated in the history of our Saviour's miracles. The brook itself is ill supplied
with water, and, compared with the ideas formed in the mind by the fine invocation of the poet,
usually creates disappointment. Going a few paces to the northward, you come to the source
of the scanty rivulet, which is called by some the Fountain of the Virgin, from an opinion
that she frequently came hither to drink. It appears in a recess about twenty feet lower than
the surface, and under an arched vault of masonry tolerably well executed. The rock had been
originally hewn down to reach this pool; and a small crooked passage, of which only the beginning
is seen, is said to convey the water out of the Valley of Siloam, and to supply the means of
irrigating the little gardens still cultivated in that spot. Notwithstanding the dirty state
of the water, and its harsh and brackish taste, it is still used by devout pilgrims for diseases
of the eye.[94]

It is said to have a kind of ebb and flow, sometimes discharging its current like the Fountain
of Vaucluse, at others retaining and scarcely suffering it to run at all. The Levites, we are
likewise told, used to sprinkle the water of Siloam on the altar at the Feast of Tabernacles,
saying, "Ye shall draw water with joy from the wells of salvation." The reader will find on
the opposite page a representation of the Fountain or Pool of Siloam, as it appeared to the
eye of an able traveller; a considerable part of the arch having fallen down, or been destroyed
by the barbarians who continue to hold Jerusalem in subjection.

The Valley of Jehoshaphat stretches between the eastern walls of the city and the Mount of
Olives, containing a great variety of objects, to which allusion is made in the Sacred Writings.
It was sometimes called the King's Dale, from a reference to an event recorded in the history
of Abraham, and was afterward distinguished by the name of Jehoshaphat, because that sovereign
erected in it a magnificent tomb. This narrow vale seems to have always served as a burying-place
for the inhabitants of the holy city: there you meet with monuments of the most remote ages,
as well as of the most modern times: thither the descendants of Jacob resort from the four
quarters of the globe, to yield up their last breath; and a foreigner sells to them, for its
weight in gold, a scanty spot of earth to cover their remains in the land of their forefathers.
Observing many Jews, whom I could easily recognise by their yellow turbans, quick dark eyes,
black eyebrows, and bushy beards, walking about the place, and reposing along the Brook Kedron
in a pensive mood, the pathetic language of the Psalmist occurred to me, as expressing the
subject of their meditation--'By the rivers we sat down and wept when we remembered Zion.'
Upon frequently inquiring the motive that prompted them in attempting to go to Jerusalem, the
answer was, 'To die in the land of our fathers.'[95]

This valley or dale still exhibits a very desolate appearance. The western side is a high chalk-cliff
supporting the walls of the city; above which you perceive Jerusalem itself; while the eastern
acclivity is formed by the Mount of Olives and the Mount of Offence, so called from the idolatry
which oppresses the fame of Solomon. These two hills are nearly naked, and of a dull red colour.
On their slopes are seen, here and there, a few bleak and parched vines, some groves of wild
olive-trees, wastes covered with hyssop, chapels, oratories, and mosques in ruins. At the bottom
of the valley you discover a bridge of a single arch, thrown across the channel of the Brook
Kedron. The stones in the Jewish cemetery look like a heap of rubbish at the foot of the Mount
of Offence, below the Arab village of Siloane, the paltry houses of which are scarcely to be
distinguished from the surrounding sepulchres. From the stillness of Jerusalem, whence no smoke
arises and no noise proceeds,--from the solitude of these hills, where no living creature is
to be seen,--from the ruinous state of all these tombs, overthrown, broken, and half-open,
you would imagine that the last trumpet had already sounded, and that the Valley of Jehoshaphat
was about to render up its dead.

Amid this scene of desolation three monuments arrest the eyes of the intelligent pilgrim,--the
tombs of Zachariah, of Absalom, and of the king whose name still distinguishes the valley.
The first-mentioned of these is a square mass of rock, hewn down into form, and isolated from
the quarry out of which it is cut by a passage of twelve or fifteen feet wide on three of its
sides; the fourth or western front being open towards the valley and to Mount Moriah, the foot
of which is only a few yards distant. This huge stone is eight paces in length on each side,
and about twenty feet high in the front, and ten feet high at the back; the hill on which it
stands having a steep ascent. It has four semicolumns cut out of the same rock on each of its
faces, with a pilaster at each angle, all of a mixed Ionic order, and ornamented in bad taste.
The architraves, the full moulding, and the deep overhanging cornice which finishes the square,
are all perfectly after the Egyptian manner; and the whole is surmounted by a pyramid, the
sloping aides of which rise from the very edges of the square below, and terminate in a finished
point.

The body of this monument, we have already stated, is one solid mass of rock, as well as its
semicolumns on each face; but the surmounting pyramid appears to be of masonry. Its sides,
however, are perfectly smooth, like the coated pyramids of Sahara and Dashour, and not graduated
by stages like those of Dijzeh in lower Egypt.

Inconsiderable in size and paltry in its ornaments, this monument, as Mr. Buckingham observes,
is eminently curious. There is no appearance of an entrance into any part of it; so that it
seems; if a tomb, to have been as firmly closed as the Egyptian pyramids, and, perhaps, for
the same respect for the repose of the dead. It is probable, indeed, that the original style
and plan of the building are derived from the country of the Pharaohs; while the Grecian columns
and pilasters may be the work of a much later period, when the Jews had learned to combine
with the massy piles of their more ancient architecture the elegant lightness which distinguished
the times of the Seleucidae.[96]

In the immediate vicinity is the tomb of Jehoshaphat,--a cavern which is more commonly called
the Grotto of the Disciples, from an idea that they went frequently thither to be taught by
their Divine Master. The front of this excavation has two Doric pillars of small size, but
of just proportions. In the interior are three chambers, all of them rude and irregular in
their form, in one of which were several gravestones, removed, we may suppose, from the open
ground for greater security. Like all the rest, they were flat slabs of an oblong shape, from
three to six inches in thickness, and evidently a portion of the limestone rock which composes
the adjoining hills.

Opposite to this, on the east, is the reputed tomb of Absalom, resembling nearly in the size,
form, and decoration of its square base that of Zachariah already described; except that it
is sculptured with the metopes and triglyphs of the Doric order. This is surmounted by a sharp
conical dome, having large mouldings running round its base, and on the summit something like
an imitation of flame. There is here again so strange a mixture of style and ornament, that
one knows not to what age to attribute the monument as a whole. The square mass below is solid,
and the Ionic columns which are seen on each of its faces are half-indented in the rock itself.
The dome is of masonry, and on the eastern side there is a square aperture in it. Generally
speaking, the sight of this monument rather confirms the idea suggested by the tomb of Zachariah,
that the hewn mass of solid rock, the surmounting pyramid and dome of masonry, and the sculptured
frieze and Ionic columns wrought on the faces of the square below were works of different periods;
being probably ancient sepulchres, the primitive character of which had been changed by the
subsequent addition of foreign ornaments. There is, besides, every reason to believe that this
monument, represented below, really occupies the site of the one which was set up by him whose
name it bears. This reservoir, a hundred and fifty feet long and forty broad, is still to be
seen near St. Stephen's Gate, where it bounded the Temple on the north. The sides are walled
by means of large stones joined together by iron cramps, and covered with flints imbedded in
a substance resembling plaster. Here the lambs destined for sacrifice were washed; and it was
on the brink of this pool that Christ said to the paralytic man, "Arise, take up thy bed and
walk." It receives a melancholy interest from the fact that it is probably the last remnant
of Jerusalem as it appeared in the days of Solomon and of his immediate successors.

It cannot be denied that the tombs in the Valley of Jehoshaphat display an alliance of Egyptian
and Grecian taste; and, in naturalizing in their capital the architecture of Memphis and of
Athens, it is equally certain that the Jews mixed with it the forms of their own peculiar style.
From this combination resulted a heterogeneous kind of structure, forming, as it were, the
link between the Pyramids and the Parthenon,--monuments in which you discover a sombre, yet
bold and elevated genius, associated with a pleasing and cultivated imagination.

Our limits forbid us to follow the footsteps of the pilgrim in his minute survey of the "Sepulchres
of the Kings," which, it is acknowledged, cannot be traced back to a remoter era than that
of the Grecian dynasty at Antioch and Damascus. There are several other tombs and grottoes,
to which tradition has attached venerable names, and even consecrated them as the scene of
important events; but as they are not remarkable on any other account, we shall not extend
to an undue length our description of the holy places under the walls of Jerusalem.

We shall simply remark, that a difference of opinion exists among modern travellers in regard
to the extent of the ancient city, the ground which it actually covered, the changes that it
has since undergone in point of locality, and hence, in respect to the position of some of
the more prominent objects which attract the attention of the inquisitive tourist in our own
days. Dr. Clarke has distinguished himself by some bold speculations on this head, the effect
of which is to derange all the received notions relative to the scene of the crucifixion and
the place of the Holy Sepulchre. It will indeed be readily granted, that it is a matter of
very small importance to the faith of a Christian to determine whether the decease which was
accomplished at Jerusalem took place on the north-western or the south-eastern extremity of
that metropolis. But as the history and tradition of many ages have fixed the spot where the
cross was erected and where the new tomb in the rock had its situation, it is requisite that
the arguments of a writer who himself pays so little respect to authority should be examined
with attention. In this case, it is obvious, an inspection of the ground candidly and distinctly
reported is of much more weight than the most ingenious reasoning if destitute of facts; on
which account, we are happy to have it in our power to refer to the journal of a learned gentleman
hitherto unpublished, who about three years ago travelled in Syria and Palestine.

"We passed by the place of St. Stephen's martyrdom down into the Valley of Jehoshaphat. This
valley, independently of associations, is highly picturesque. It is deep and narrow; the lower
part is green with scattered olives. The slope up towards the city is also smooth and green,
and crowned by the towers and battlements. On ascending the Mount of Olives, which we did towards
the south, we had a splendid view of Jerusalem. The chief ornaments are the two domes of the
Holy Sepulchre, the mosque of Omar, and another large mosque with a smaller dome; but the white
houses make a good show, and the walls are picturesque. On looking at Jerusalem from this place,
the great features seemed to me to agree entirely with the established maps, and Dr. Clarke's
theory appeared quite untenable. The only difficulty is, that there is no valley which runs
up all the way so as to divide entirely Mount Zion from Mount Moriah. A ravine does run far
enough to cut off the Temple, but no more. The extent of this difficulty must depend on the
description left us of the Tyropaeum and Millo. Was there a deep valley such as time and change
might not have obliterated? The people of the convent gave the name of the Mount of Offence
to a low hill on the south of the Mount of Olives; but Clarke seems to think that the real
Mount of Offence is that divided by Jehinnom from Zion, and called by our guide Monte de Mal
Consiglio. We visited the Mohammedan chapel over the place of the Ascension, and saw the alleged
print of Christ's foot. We next went to the place called Viri Galilaei (ye men of Galilee),
and, after looking in vain for Dr. Clarke's pagan remains, descended towards the Cave of the
Prophets. We saw the well where Nehemiah found the fire of the altar, and then went up the
Valley of Hinnom; first to the tomb called the Crypt of the Apostles, close to the Aceldama,
or Field of Blood. We saw many other grottoes; one had [Greek: taes hagias Sion] inscribed
upon it, as had another much farther up. Near this last was that which Clarke maintained to
be the Holy Sepulchre. We saw one which would do very well for it; but so would many others.
This one was a cave, with a place for a body cut out in the back part of it, but raised like
a stone trough, not sunk in the floor. There is, of course, not a shadow of reason for thinking
Clarke's cave to be the real one, and very little that I can see for doubting that the nominal
Holy Sepulchre is so in fact, or, rather, that it is on the site of the real one, which must
have been destroyed when Adrian erected his temple to Venus on the spot. From these caves we
went by the Pool of Bathsheba to the Bethlehem Gate, and so along the west side of the town
to the Tombs of the Judges and Kings, which lie north or north-west of the city. I observed
large foundations of ancient walls and heaps of rubbish west of the modern town, where Clarke
seems to assume that there was anciently no part of the city. There and on the north I also
observed wells opening into large covered reservoirs for water. We entered only one of the
Tombs of the Judges, the rest being insignificant. That one was large, with a pediment which
had dentiles and other Greek ornaments. Inside there were at least three chambers, surrounded
by receptacles for bodies. In returning we went to the Tombs of the Kings, which, like the
others, are cut out of the rock, and, like them too, have Grecian ornaments. There is one large
cave; the front has a handsome entablature, the upper part ornamented with alternate circular
garlands, bunches of grapes, and an ornament of acanthus leaves; the lower with a rich band
of foliage disposed with much elegance."[98]

Hence, it appears that the weight of evidence preponderates decidedly in favour of the common
opinions in regard to the form of the ancient city and the places which are usually denominated
holy. Why, then, should any one attempt to disturb the belief or acquiescence of the Christian
world on a subject concerning which all nations have hitherto found reason to agree?

In proceeding from Jerusalem towards Bethany, the traveller skirts the Mount of Olives; or,
if he wishes to enjoy the magnificent view which it presents, both of the city and of the extensive
tract watered by the Jordan, he ascends its heights, and at the same time inspects the remains
of sacred architecture still to be seen on its summit. As he passes from the eastern gate,
the Garden of Gethsemane meets his eyes, as well as the tomb which bears the name of the Blessed
Virgin. This has a building over it with a pretty front, although the Grecian ornaments sculptured
in marble are not in harmony with the pointed arch at the entrance. It is approached by a paved
court, now a raised way, leading from the Mount of Olives over the Brook Kedron. The descent
into it is formed by a handsome flight of steps composed of marble, being about fifty in number
and of a noble breadth. About midway down are two arched recesses in the sides, said to contain
the ashes of St. Anne, the mother of Mary, and of Joseph her husband. Reaching the bottom of
the stairs, the visiter is shown the tomb of the holy Virgin herself, which is in the form
of a simple bench coated with marble. Here the Greeks and Armenians say mass by turns, and
near it there is an humble altar for the Syrian Christians; while opposite to it is one for
the Copts, consisting of earth, and entirely destitute of lamps, pictures, covering, and every
other species of ornament. Chateaubriand tells us that the Turks had a portion of this grotto:
Buckingham asserts that they have no right to enter it, nor could he "learn from the keepers
of the place that they ever had!" whereas the author of the Anonymous Journal, from which we
have already quoted, states distinctly that "there is a place reserved for the Mussulmans to
pray, which at the Virgin's Tomb one would not expect to be much in request." So much for the
clashing of authorities on the part of writers who could have no wish to deceive!

There are various other grottoes on the acclivity of the hill, meant to keep alive the remembrance
of certain occurrences which are either mentioned in the gospel, or have been transmitted to
the present age by oral tradition. Among these is one which is supposed to be the scene of
the agony and the bloody sweat; a second, that marks the place where St. Peter and the two
sons of Zebedee fell asleep when their Master retired to pray; and a third, indicating the
spot whereon Judas betrayed the Son of Man with a kiss. Here also is pointed out the rock from
which our Saviour predicted the sack of Jerusalem and the destruction of the Temple,--that
dreadful visitation, of which the traces are still most visible both within and around the
walls. The curious pilgrim is further edified by the sight of a cavern where the apostles were
taught the Lord's Prayer; and of another where the same individuals at a later period met together
to compose their Creed. On the principal top of the Mount of Olives,--for the elevated ground
presents three separate summits,--are a mosque and the remains of a church. The former is distinguished
by a lofty minaret which commands an extensive prospect; but the latter is esteemed more remarkable,
as containing the piece of rock imprinted with the mark of our Saviour's foot while in the
act of ascension.

But the view of the venerable metropolis itself, which stretches out its lance and sacred enclosures
under the eye of the traveller, is still more interesting than the recapitulation of ambiguous
relics. It occupies an irregular square of about two miles and a half in circumference. Eusebius
gave a measurement of twenty-seven stadia, amounting to nearly a mile more than its present
dimensions; a difference which can easily be explained, by adverting to the alterations made
on the line of fortifications by the Saracens and Turks, especially on the north-west and western
extremities of the town. Its shortest apparent side is that which faces the east, and in this
is the supposed gate of the ancient Temple, shut up by the Mussulmans from a superstitious
motive, and the small projecting stone on which their prophet is to sit when he shall judge
the world assembled in the vale below. The southern side is exceedingly irregular, taking quite
a zigzag direction; the south-western entrance being terminated by a mosque built over the
supposed sepulchre of David, on the elevation of Mount Zion. The form and exact direction of
the western and northern walls are not distinctly seen from the position now assumed; but every
part of them appears to be a modern work, and executed at the same time. They are flanked at
certain distances by square towers, and have battlements all along their summits, with loopholes
for arrows or musketry close to the top. Their height is about fifty feet, but they are not
surrounded by a ditch. The northern wall runs over ground which declines slightly outward;
the eastern wall passes straight along the brow of Mount Moriah, with the deep valley of Jehoshaphat
below; the southern wall crosses Mount Zion, with the vale of Hinnom at its feet; and the western
wall is carried over a more uniform level, near the summit of the bare hills which terminate
at the Jaffa gate.[100]

Turning towards the east, the traveller sees at the foot of the hill the little village of
Bethany, so often mentioned in the history of our Lord and of his personal followers; and at
a greater distance, a little more on the left, he beholds the magnificent scenery of the Jordan
and the Dead Sea.

There are two roads from Jerusalem to Bethany; the one passing over the Mount of Olives; the
other, the shorter and easier, winding round the eastern side of it. This village is now both
small and poor, the cultivation of the soil around it being very much neglected by the indolent
Arabs into whose hands it has fallen. Here are shown the ruins of a house, said to have belonged
to Lazarus whom our Saviour raised from the dead; and, in the immediate neighbourhood, the
faithful pilgrim is invited to devotion in a grotto, which is represented as the actual tomb
wherein the miracle was performed. The dwellings of Simon the Leper, of Mary Magdalene, and
of Martha are pointed out by the Mussulmans, who traffic on the credulity of ignorant Christians.
Nay, they undertake to identify the spot where the barren fig tree withered under the curse,
and the place where Judas put an end to his life, oppressed by a more dreadful malediction.

There is no traveller of any nation, whatever may be his creed or his impressions in regard
to the gospel, who does not make the usual journey from the Jewish capital to Bethlehem the
place of our Lord's nativity. The road, as we find related, passes over ground extremely rocky
and barren, diversified only by some cultivated patches bearing a scanty crop of grain, and
by banks of wild-flowers which grow in great profusion. On the way the practised guide points
out the ruined tower of Simeon, who upon beholding the infant Messiah expressed his readiness
to leave this world; the Monastery of Elias, now in possession of the Greeks; and the tomb
of Rachel, rising in a rounded top like the whitened sepulchre of an Arab sheik. "This," says
the honest Maundrell, "may probably be the true place of her interment; but the present sepulchral
monument can be none of that which Jacob erected, for it appears plainly to be a modern and
Turkish structure." Farther on is the well of which David longed to drink, and of which his
mighty men, at the risk of their lives, procured him a supply; and here opens to view, in a
great valley, that most interesting of all pastoral scenes, where the angel of the Omnipotent
appeared by night to the shepherds, to announce the glad tidings that Christ was born in Bethlehem.[101]

As there was another town of the same name in the tribe of Zebulon, the Bethlehem that we now
approach was usually distinguished by the addition of Ephrata, or by a reference to the district
in which it was situated. The convent which marks the place of the Redeemer's birth was built
by Helena, after removing the idolatrous structure said to have been erected by Adrian from
a feeling of contempt or jealousy towards the Christians. At present it is divided among the
monks of the Greek, Roman, and Armenian sects, who have assigned to them separate portions,
as well for lodging as for places of worship; though, on certain days, they may all celebrate
the rites of their common faith on altars which none of them have been hitherto allowed to
appropriate. There are two churches, an upper and a lower, under the same roof. The former
contains nothing remarkable, if we except a star inlaid in the floor, immediately under the
spot in the heavens where the supernatural sign became visible to the wise men, and, like it,
directly above the place of the Nativity in the church below.

This last is an excavation in the rock, elegantly fitted up and floored with marble, and to
which there is a descent by a flight of steps through a long narrow passage. Here are shown
a great number of tombs, and among them one in which were said to be buried all the babes of
Bethlehem murdered by the barbarous Herod. From hence the pilgrim is conducted into a handsome
chapel, of which the floors and walls are composed of beautiful marble, having on each side
five oratories, or recesses for prayer, corresponding to the ten stalls supposed to have been
in the stable wherein our blessed Saviour was born. This sacred crypt is irregular in shape,
because it occupies the site of the stable and the manger. It is thirty-seven feet six inches
long, eleven feet three inches broad, and nine feet in height. As it receives no light from
without, it is illumined by thirty-two lamps, sent by different princes of Christendom; the
other embellishments are ascribed to the munificent Helena. At the farther extremity of this
small church there is an altar placed in an arcade, and hollowed out below in the form of an
arch, to embrace the sacred spot where Emmanuel, having laid aside his glory, first appeared
in the garb of human nature. A circle in the floor composed of marble and jasper, surrounded
with silver, and having rays like those with which the sun is represented, marks the precise
situation wherein that stupendous event was realized. An inscription, denoting that "here Jesus
Christ was born of the Virgin Mary," meets the eye of the faithful worshipper. It is also formed
of marble, and is raised about eighteen inches above the floor, bearing a resemblance to the
humble bed which alone the furniture of a stable could supply. Before it is the Altar of the
Wise Men,--a memorial of their adoration and praise at the moment when they saw the young child
and Mary his mother.

This edifice, says the Vicomte de Chateaubriand, is certainly of high antiquity, and, often
destroyed and as often repaired, it still retains marks of its Grecian origin. It is built
in the form of a cross, the nave being adorned with forty-eight columns of the Corinthian order
in four rows, which are at least two feet six inches in diameter at the base, and eighteen
feet high, including the base and capital. As the roof of the nave is wanting, these pillars
support nothing but a frieze of wood, which occupies the place of the architrave and of the
whole entablature. The windows are large, and were formerly adorned with Mosaic paintings and
passages from the Bible in Greek and Latin characters, the traces of which are still visible.

The top of the church affords a fine prospect into the surrounding country, extending to Tekoa
on the south and Engedi on the east. In the latter place is the grotto where David, a native
of Bethlehem, cut off the skirt of Saul's garment. There is also the convent of Elias, in which
is said to-be a large stone still retaining an impression of his body. Between this point and
Jerusalem Mr. Buckingham was struck with the appearance of several small detached towers of
a square form built in the midst of vine-lands. These, he learned, were for the accommodation
of watchmen appointed to guard the produce from thieves and wild beasts; hence explaining a
passage which occurs in the Gospel according to St. Mark:--"A certain man planted a vineyard,
and set an hedge about it, and digged a place for the wine-fat, and built a tower, and let
it out to husbandmen."[102]

It is painful to find that the same animosity which attends the claims of the several sects
of Christians at Jerusalem for the possession of the Holy Sepulchre disgraces their contentions
at Bethlehem for the Grotto of the Nativity. A few years ago, during the celebration of the
Christmas festival, at which Mr. Bankes was present, a battle took place, in which some of
the combatants were wounded, and others severely beaten; and in the preceding season the privilege
of saying mass at the altar on that particular day had been fought for at the door of the sanctuary
itself with drawn swords.

Dr. Clarke, whose skepticism in regard to the holy places in the capital has been already mentioned,
grants that the tradition respecting the Cave of the Nativity is so well authenticated as hardly
to admit of dispute. Having been always held in veneration, the oratory established there by
the first Christians attracted the notice and indignation of the heathens so early as the time
of Adrian, who, as is elsewhere stated, ordered it to be demolished, and the place to be set
apart for the rites of Adonis. This happened in the second century, and at a period in the
emperor's life when the Grotto of the Nativity was as well known in Bethlehem as the circumstance
to which it owed its celebrity. In the fourth age, accordingly, we find this fact appealed
to by St. Jerome as an indisputable testimony by which the cave itself had been identified.
Upon this subject there does not seem to be the slightest ground for skepticism; and the evidence
afforded by such a writer will be deemed sufficient for believing that the monastery erected
over the spot, and where he himself resided, does at this day point out the place of our Saviour's
birth.[103]

Nothing, observes a late traveller, can be more pleasing, or better calculated to excite sentiments
of devotion, than this subterranean church. It is adorned with pictures of the Italian and
Spanish schools, representing the mysteries peculiar to the place,--the Virgin and Child, after
Raphael; the Annunciation; the Adoration of the Wise Men; the Coming of the Shepherds; and
all those miracles of mingled grandeur and innocence. The usual ornaments of the manger are
of blue satin, embroidered with silver. Incense is continually smoking before the cradle of
the Saviour. "I have heard an organ, touched by no ordinary hand, playing during mass the sweetest
and most tender tunes of the best Italian composers. These concerts charm the Christian Arab,
who, leaving his camels to feed, repairs, like the shepherds of old, to Bethlehem, to adore
the King of Kings in his manger. I have seen this inhabitant of the desert communicate at the
altar of the Magi with a fervour, a piety, a devotion unknown among the Christians of the West."
No place in the world, says Father Neret, excites more profound devotion. The continual arrival
of caravans from all the Nations of Christendom--the public prayers--the prostrations--nay,
even the richness of the presents sent thither by the Christian princes--altogether produce
feelings in the soul which it is much easier to conceive than to describe.[104]

It may be added, that the effect of all this is heightened by an extraordinary contrast; for,
on quitting the grotto where you have met with the riches, the arts, the religion of civilized
nations, you find yourself in a profound solitude, amid wretched Arab huts, among half-naked
savages and faithless Mussulmans. This place is nevertheless the same where so many miracles
were displayed; but this sacred land dares no more express its joy, and locks within its bosom
the recollections of its glory.

Bethlehem has usually shared the vicissitudes of Jerusalem, being, both from its situation
and the nature of the relics which it contains, exposed to the rage or cupidity of barbarian
conquerors. It fell under the power of the Saracens when led by their victorious calif; but
for seven centuries it has been guarded by a succession of religious persons who, it has been
said, suffer a perpetual martyrdom. In the time of Volney, they reckoned about six hundred
men in this village capable of bearing arms, of whom about one hundred were Latin Christians.
The necessity of uniting for their common defence against the Bedouins, and the still morn
relentless agents of despotism, has in many instances prevailed over points of faith, and induced
the monks to live on good terms with the Mohammedans. Mr. Buckingham assures us, that at present
the town is equal to Nazareth in extent, and contains from 1000 to 1500 inhabitants, who are
almost wholly Christians. Dr. Richardson gives the number at 300, an estimate, we should imagine,
considerably below the actual population. The men are robust and well made, and the women are
among the fairest and most handsome, that are to be seen in Palestine.

The neighbourhood of Bethlehem presents a variety of objects too important to be passed without
a slight notice. The Pools of Solomon, connected, it is probable, with a scheme for supplying
Jerusalem with water; are usually visited by the more enlightened class of travellers, who
combine in their researches a regard to the arts as well as to the religion of Judea. These
reservoirs are four, in number, being so disposed, says Maundrell, that the water of the uppermost
may descend into the second, and that of the second into the third. Their figure is quadrangular;
the breadth is the same in all, amounting to about ninety paces. In their length there is some
difference; the first being one hundred and sixty paces long, the second two hundred and the
third two hundred and twenty. They are all lined with masonry and plastered. The springs whence
the pools are supplied seem to have been secured with great care, having, says the author of
the Journey from Aleppo, "no avenue to them but by a little hole like to the mouth of a narrow
well." Through this hole you descend directly about four yards, when you come to a chamber
forty-five feet long and twenty-four broad, adjoining to which there is another apartment of
the same kind, but not quite so large. Both these rooms are neatly arched, and have an air
of great antiquity. The water, which rises from four separate sources, is partly conveyed by
a subterranean passage into the ponds; the remainder being received into an aqueduct of brick
pipes, and carried by many turnings and windings among the mountains to the walls of Jerusalem.
The monks of Bethlehem are perfectly convinced that it was in allusion to this guarded treasure,
so valuable in Palestine, that Solomon called his beloved spouse a "sealed fountain."

Of the aqueduct here mentioned some traces are still to be detected in the intermediate space,
and denote an acquaintance with the principles of hydraulics which we could not have expected
among Hebrew architects. It was constructed all along upon the surface of the ground, and framed
of perforated stones let into one another, with a fillet round the cavity, so contrived as
to prevent leakage, and united together with so firm a cement that they will sometimes sooner
break than endure a separation. These pipes were covered with an arch, or layer of flags, strengthened
by the application of a peculiarly strong mortar; the whole "being endued with such absolute
firmness as if it had been designed for eternity. But the Turks have demonstrated in this instance,
that nothing can be so well wrought but they are able to destroy it; fur of this strong aqueduct,
which was carried formerly five or six leagues with so vast expense and labour, you see now
only here and there a fragment remaining."[105]

In a valley contiguous to Bethlehem are the remains of a church and convent which were erected
by the pious empress over the place where the angels appeared to the shepherds. Nothing has
survived the desolation to which every edifice in Palestine has been repeatedly subjected but
a small grotto wherein the heavenly communication was vouchsafed to the simple keepers of the
flock.

On the way back to Jerusalem the traveller is induced to leave the more direct route, that
he may visit the Convent of St. John in the Desert. This monastery is built over the dwelling
where the Baptist is supposed to have first seen the light; and accordingly, under the altar,
the spot on which he was brought forth is marked by a star of marble bearing this inscription:--

  "Hic precursor Domini Christi natus est."
  Here the forerunner of the Lord Christ was born.

The church belonging to this establishment has been described as one of the best in the Holy
Land, having an elegant cupola and a pavement of Mosaic, with some paintings. But the appearance,
nevertheless, is poor and deserted, as if its votaries were few, and but little concerned in
preserving its ancient grandeur. The account given of it by Sandys will amuse the reader by
the simplicity of the narrative as well as by the deep interest the good man felt in the various
scenes which passed before him:--"Having travelled about a mile and a halfe farther, we came
to the cave where the baptist is said to have lived from the age of seven until such time as
he went into the wilderness by Jordan, sequestered from the abode of man, and feeding on such
wilde nourishment as these uninhabited places afforded. This cave is seated on the northern
side of a desert mountaine,--only beholden to the locust-tree,--hewne out of the precipitating
rock, so as difficultly to be ascended or descended to, entered at the east corner, and receiving
light from a window in the side. At the upper end there is a bench of the selfesame, whereon,
they say, he accustomed to sleeps; of which whoso breaks a piece off stands forthwith excommunicate.
Over this, on a little flat stand the ruins of a monastery, on the south aide, naturally walled
with the steepe of a mountain; from whence there gusheth a living spring which entereth the
rock, and again bursteth forth beneathe the mouth of the cave,--a place that would make solitarinesse
delightful, and stand in comparison with the turbulent pompe of cities. This overlooketh a
profound valley, on the far side hemmed with aspiring mountains, whereof some are cut (or naturally
so) in degrees like allies, which would be else unaccessibly fruitlesse; whose levels yet bear
the stumps of decayed vines, shadowed not rarely with olives and locusts. And surely I think
that all or most of those mountains have bin so husbanded, else could this little country have
never sustained such a multitude of people. After we had fed of such provision as was brought
us from the city by other of the fraternitie that there met us, we turned towards Jerusalem,
leaving the way of Bethlehem on the right-hand, and that of Emmaus on the left. The first place
of note that we met with was there where once stood the dwelling of Zachary, seated on the
side of a fruitful hill, well stored with olives and vineyards. Hither came the blessed Virgin
to visit her cousin Elisabeth. Here died Elisabeth, and here, in a grot, on the aide of a vault
or chapell, lies buried; over which a goodly church war erected, together with a monastery,
whereof now little standeth but a part of the walls, which offer to the view some fragments
of painting, which show that the rest have been exquisit. Beyond and lower is Our Lady's Fountaine
(so called of the inhabitants), which maintaineth a little current thorow the neighbouring
valley. Near this, in the bottome and uttermost extent thereof, there standeth a temple, once
sumptuous, now desolate, built by Helena, and dedicated to St. John Baptist, in the place where
Zachary had another house, possest, as the rest, by the beastly Arabians, who defile it with
their cattell, and employ to the basest of uses."[106]

It is a point still unsettled, whether the food of him who was sent to prepare the way consisted
of fruit or of insects; the name locust being indiscriminately applied to either, and both
being used by the inhabitants of Palestine. There is less doubt in regard to the opinions of
the early Christians, who were unanimous in the belief that the Baptist lived on the produce
of a particular tree which still abounds in the desert. Nay, the friars at the present day
assert, that the very plants which yielded sustenance to the holy recluse continue to flourish
in their ancient vigour; and the popish pilgrims, says Mr. Maundrell, who dare not be wiser
than such blind guides, gather the fruit of them, and carry it away with much devotion.

But we must not permit the interesting associations of Bethlehem to detain us any longer in
its vicinity. We proceed now towards the extremity of the Dead Sea; whence, after having visited
the most remarkable scenes on its western shore,--the mouth of the Jordan and the position
of Jericho,--we shall return to the capital by a different route.

After having satisfied his curiosity in church and convent, the traveller turns his face southward
to Tekoa and Hebron, those remoter villages of the Holy Land. The former, which was built by
Rehoboam, and is distinguished as the birthplace of Amos the prophet, presents considerable
ruins, and even some remains of architecture. It appears to have stood upon a hill, which Pococke
describes as being about half a mile in length and a furlong broad. On the north-eastern corner
there are fragments of an old building, supposed to have been a fortress, while about half-way
up the accent there are similar indications of a church now in a state of complete dilapidation.
There is preserved, however, a large font of an octagon form, composed of red and white marble;
as also pieces of broken pillars consisting of the same material.

Farther towards the south, various manifestations present themselves of ancient civilization,
the traces of which are most distinctly marked by places of worship and numerous strongholds.
The traveler just named mentions a ruined castle called Creightoun, situated on the side of
a steep hill, and a church dedicated to St. Pantaleone. At a little distance there is an immense
grotto, which is said on one occasion to have contained 30,000 men; and hence it is conjectured
to be one of those retreats in the fastnesses of Engedi to which David fled from the pursuit
of Saul. About two miles farther, in a south-eastern direction, is the Mount of Bethulia, near
a village of the same name; a position which is thought to agree with that of Beth-haccerem,
specified by Jeremiah as a proper place for a beacon, where the children of Benjamin were to
sound the trumpet in Tekoa.[107]

There is a tradition that the knights of Jerusalem, during the Holy War, held this strong post
forty years after the capital had fallen. It is a single hill, and very high; and the top of
it appears like a large mount formed by art, being defended by a double line of fortifications
and several towers, which in a rude state of warfare might be pronounced almost impregnable.
At the foot of an eminence towards the north there are the remains of a magnificent church
as well as of other buildings. On a slope a little farther west there is a cistern connected
with a pond, which appears to have had an island in it, and probably some structure suited
to the supply of water. These works were also encompassed with a double wall; and it is said
that two aqueducts may still be perceived terminating in the basin, one from the Sealed Fountain
of Solomon, and another from the hilly district which stretches between Bethlehem and Tekoa.

In reference to the tradition that the knights of Jerusalem held the garrison of Bethulia forty
years, Captain Mangles remarks, that the place is too small to have contained even half the
number of men which would have been requisite to make any stand in such a country; and the
ruins, though they may be those of a place once defended by Franks, appear to have had an earlier
origin, as the architecture seems to be decidedly Roman. There can be little doubt, indeed,
that it is one of the works of Herod the Great; and its distance does not differ much from
that of Herodium, which is described by Josephus as being about sixty furlongs from the metropolis.
The delineation of the hill, too, by the same historian, corresponds with the Mount of the
Franks; and when he adds that water was conveyed to it at a great expense, we cannot permit
ourselves to question the identity of Herodium and the fortress of Bethulia.[108]

Hebron, Habroun, or, according to the Arabic orthography followed by the moderns, El Hhalil,
is considerably removed from the usual track of pilgrims and tourists. An accident or quarrel
once excited the indignation of the inhabitants against the Franks, who during a long course
of time were dissuaded by the Monks at Jerusalem from extending their researches beyond Bethlehem.
Sandys could only report, apparently on the information of others, that Hebron was reduced
to ruins; but he adds, there is a little village seated in the field of Machpelah, "where standeth
a goodly temple, erected over the burying-cave of the patriarchs by Helena, the mother of Constantine,
converted now into a mosque." Without minutely analyzing the topography of this rather credulous
author, we may repeat the assurance which he gives relative to the existence of the imperial
monument dedicated to the memory of Abraham and his immediate descendants. M. Burckhardt, who
saw it in 1807, bears testimony to the fact that the sepulchre, once a Greek church, is now
appropriated to the worship of Mohammed. The ascent to it is by a large and fine staircase
that leads to a long gallery, the entrance to which is by a small court. Towards the left is
a portico resting upon square pillars The vestibule of the temple contains two rooms; the one
being the tomb of Abraham, the other that of Sarah. In the body of the church, between two
large pillars on the right, is seen a small recess, in which is the sepulchre of Isaac, and
in a similar one upon the left is that of his wife. On the opposite side of the court is another
vestibule, which has also two rooms, being respectively the tomb of Jacob and of his spouse.
At the extremity of the portico, upon the right-hand, is a door which leads to a sort of long
gallery that still serves for a mosque; and passing from thence is observed another room containing
the ashes of Joseph, which are said to have been carried thither by the people of Israel. All
the sepulchres of the patriarchs are covered with rich carpets of green silk, magnificently
embroidered with gold; those of their wives are red, embroidered in like manner. The sultans
of Constantinople furnish these carpets, which are renewed from time to time. M. Burckhardt
counted nine, one over another, upon the sepulchre of Abraham. The rooms also which contain
the tombs are covered with rich carpets; the entrance to them is guarded by iron gates, and
wooden doors plated with silver, having halts and padlocks of the same metal. More than a hundred
persons are employed in the service of this temple; affording, with the decorations and wealth
lavished upon the structure, a remarkable contrast to the simple life of the venerable man
to whose memory it is meant to do honour.

If the description given by Sandys in the seventeenth century was correct, we must conclude
that Hebron has subsequently enjoyed a period of improvement. According to the traveller whom
we have just quoted, it contains about four hundred families, of which about a fourth part
are Jews. It is situated on the slope of a mountain; has a strong castle; can boast abundance
of provisions, a considerable number of shops, and some neat houses. The whole of the country
between Tekoa and Hebron is finer and better cultivated than in the neighbourhood of Jerusalem;
while the sides of the hills, instead of being naked and dreary, are richly studded with the
oak, the arbutus, the Scottish fir, and a variety of flowering-shrubs.

Beyond this point the information of Europeans ceased until about twelve years ago, when the
desert which stretches between the Sepulchre of Abraham and the Dead Sea was entered by Mr.
Bankes, Mr. Legh, and Captains Irby and Mangles. After a journey of three days from Hebron
towards the south, the travellers were informed of extensive ruins at Abdi in the Wilderness.
On turning their faces to Kerek, the object of their search, the road led in the direction
of the Lake Asphaltites, through a country which, although well cultivated, was extremely uninteresting.
They observed a variety of ruins, with some subterranean tombs in the neighbourhood, denoting
the existence of an ancient town; when, after having advanced eight or nine miles farther,
they found themselves on the borders of an extensive desert, entirely abandoned to the wandering
Bedouins. Near the point at which this change of aspect begins is a place called by the natives
Al-baid, where there is a fountain in the rock and a pool of greenish water.

The travellers, at some distance from this halting-place, arrived at a camp of Jellaheen Arabs,
who told them that in years of scarcity they were accustomed to retire into Egypt,--a practice
which seems to have been handed down from the days of the patriarchs, or dictated by the same
necessity that compelled the family of Jacob to adopt a similar expedient. At the distance
of eight hours from Al-baid, in a deep barren valley, are the ruins of an old Turkish fort,
standing on a solitary rock to the left of the track. Farther on the cliff is excavated, at
a considerable height, into loopholes; where it is probable a barrier was formerly established
for levying a certain duty on goods and travellers. The place is called El Zowar, or El Ghor.
From hence a gravelly ravine, studded with bushes of acacia and other shrubs, conducts to the
great plain at the southern extremity of the Dead Sea; bounded at the distance of eight or
nine miles by a sandy cliff at least seventy feet high, which forms a barrier to the lake when
at its greatest elevation. The existence of that long valley which extends from Asphaltites
to the AElanitic Gulf was first ascertained by Burckhardt; and the prolongation of it, as connected
with the hollow of the Jordan, has been considered as a proof that the river at one time discharged
its waters into the eastern branch of the Red Sea. The change is attributed to that great volcanic
convulsion mentioned in the nineteenth chapter of Genesis, which, interrupting the course of
the river, converted into a lake the fertile plain occupied by the cities of Adma, Zeboim,
Sodom, and Gomorrah, and reduced all the valley southward to the condition of a sandy waste.[109]

But, having reached the shores of the Dead Sea by an unfrequented path, we have no guide to
the examination of the wild country which rises on either side of it; we therefore prefer the
more wonted route which leads to its northern border, near the mouth of the Jordan and the
site of the ancient Jericho. Avoiding, at the same time, the track of the caravan from Jerusalem
through the hilly desert which intervenes, we shall accompany the Vicomte de Chateaubriand
from Bethlehem through the interesting Valley of Santa Saba.

On leaving the Church of the Nativity the traveller pursues his course eastward, through a
vale where Abraham is said to have fed his flocks. This pastoral tract, however, is soon succeeded
by a range of hilly ground, so extremely barren that not even a root of moss is to be seen
upon it. Descending the farther side of this meager platform two lofty towers are perceived,
rising from a deep valley, marking the site of the Convent of Santa Saba. Nothing can be more
dreary than the situation of this religious house. It is erected in a ravine, sunk to the depth
of several hundred feet, where the brook Kedron has formed a channel, which is dry the greater
part of the year. The church is on a little eminence at the bottom of the dell; Whence the
buildings of the monastery rise by perpendicular flights of steps and passages hewn out of
the rock, and thus ascend to the ridge of the hill, where they terminate is the two square
towers already mentioned. From hence you descry the sterile summits of the mountains both towards
the east and west; the course of the stream from Jerusalem; and the numerous grottoes formerly
occupied by Christian anchorites.

In advancing, the aspect of the country still continues the same, white and dusty, without
tree, herbage, or even moss. At length the road seeks a lower level, and approaches the rocky
border which bounds the Valley of the Jordan; when, after a toilsome journey of ten or twelve
hours, the traveller sees stretching out before his eyes the Dead Sea and the line of the river.
But the landscape, however grand, admits of no comparison to the scenery of Europe. No fields
waving with corn,--no plains covered with rich pasture present themselves from the mountains
of Lower Palestine. Figure to yourself two long chains of mountains, running in a parallel
direction from north to south, without breaks and without undulations. The eastern or Arabian
chain is the highest; and, when seen at the distance of eight or ten leagues, you would take
it to be a prodigious perpendicular wall, resembling Mount Jura in its form and azure colour.
Not one summit, not the smallest peak can be distinguished; you merely perceive slight inflections
here and there, "as if the hand of the painter who drew this horizontal line along the sky
had trembled in some places."

The mountains of Judea form the range on which the observer stands as he looks down on the
Lake Asphaltites. Less lofty and more unequal than the eastern chain, it differs from the other
in its nature also; exhibiting heaps of chalk and sand, whose form, it is said, bears some
resemblance to piles of arms, waving standards, or the tents of a camp pitched on the border
of a plain. The Arabian side, on the contrary, presents nothing but black precipitous rocks,
which throw their lengthened shadow over waters of the Dead Sea. The smallest bird of heaven
would not find among these crags a single blade of grass for its sustenance; every thing announces
the country of a reprobate people, and well fitted to perpetuate the punishment denounced against
Ammon and Moab.

The valley confined by these two chains of mountains displays a soil resembling the bottom
of a sea which has long retired from its bed, a beach covered with salt, dry mud, and moving
sands, furrowed, as it were, by the waves. Here and there stunted shrubs vegetate with difficulty
upon this inanimate tract; their leaves are covered with salt, and their bark has a smoky smell
and taste. Instead of villages you perceive the ruins of a few towers. In the middle of this
valley flows a discoloured river, which reluctantly throws itself into the pestilential lake
by which it is engulfed. Its course amid the sands can be distinguished only by the willows
and the reeds that border it; among which the Arab lies in ambush to attack the traveller and
to murder the pilgrim.[110]

M. Chateaubriand remarks, that when you travel in Judea the heart is at first filled with profound
melancholy. But when, passing from solitude to solitude, boundless space opens before you,
this feeling wears off by degrees, and you experience a secret awe, which, so far from depressing
the soul, imparts life and elevates the genius. Extraordinary appearances everywhere proclaim
a land teeming with miracles. The burning sun, the towering eagle, the barren fig-tree, all
the poetry, all the pictures of Scripture are here. Every name commemorates a mystery,--every
grotto announces a prediction,--every hill reechoes the accents of a prophet. God himself has
spoken in these regions, dried up rivers, rent the rocks, and opened the grave. "The desert
still appears mute with terror; and you would imagine that it had never presumed to interrupt
the silence since it heard the awful voice of the Eternal."

The celebrated lake which occupies the site of Sodom and Gomorrah is called in Scripture the
Dead Sea. Among the Greeks and Latins it is known by the name of Asphaltites; the Arabs denominate
it Bahar Loth, or Sea of Lot. M. de Chateaubriand does not agree with those who conclude it
to be the crater of a volcano; for, having seen Vesuvius, Solfatara, the Peak of the Azores,
and the extinguished volcanoes of Auvergne, he remarked in all of them the same characters;
that is to say, mountains excavated in the form of a tunnel, lava, and ashes, which exhibited
incontestable proof of the agency of fire. The Salt Sea, on the contrary, is a lake of great
length, curved like a bow, placed between two ranges of mountains, which have no mutual coherence
of form, no similarity of composition. They do not meet at the two extremities of the lake;
but while the one continues to bound the valley of Jordan, and to run northward as far as Tiberias,
the other stretches away to the south till it loses itself in the sands of Yemen. There are,
it is true, hot springs, quantities of bitumen, sulphur, and asphaltos; but these of themselves
are not sufficient to attest the previous existence of a volcano. With respect, indeed, to
the ingulfed cities, if we adopt the idea of Michaelis and of Buesching, physics may be admitted
to explain the catastrophe without offence to religion. According to their views, Sodom was
built upon a mine of bitumen,--a fact which is ascertained by the testimony of Moses and Josephus,
who speak of wells of naphtha in the Valley of Siddim. Lightning kindled the combustible mass,
and the guilty cities sank in the subterraneous conflagration. Malte Brun ingeniously suggests
that Sodom and Gomorrah themselves may have been built of bituminous stones, and thus have
been set in flames by the fire from heaven.

According to Strabo, there were thirteen towns swallowed up in the Lake Asphaltites; Stephen
of Byzantium reckons eight; the book of Genesis, while it names five as situated in the Vale
of Siddim, relates the destruction of two only: four are mentioned in Deuteronomy, and five
are noticed by the author of Ecclesiasticus. Several travellers, and among others Troilo and
D'Arvieux, assure us, that they observed fragments of walls and palaces in the Dead Sea. Maundrell
himself was not so fortunate, owing, he supposes, to the height of the water; but he relates
that the Father Guardian and Procurator of Jerusalem, both men of sense and probity, declared
that they had once actually seen one of these ruins; that it was so near the shore, and the
lake so shallow, that they, together with some Frenchmen, went to it, and found there several
pillars and other fragments of buildings. The ancients speak more positively on this subject.
Josephus, who employs a poetical expression, says, that he perceived on the shores of the Dead
Sea the shades of the overwhelmed cities. Strabo gives a circumference of sixty stadia to the
ruins of Sodom, which are also mentioned by Tacitus.[111]

It is surprising that no pains have been taken by recent travellers to throw light upon this
interesting point, or even to learn whether the periodical rise and fall of the lake affords
any means for determining the accuracy of the ancient historians and geographers. Should the
Turks ever give permission, and should it be found practicable, to convey a vessel from Jaffa
to this inland sea, some curious discoveries would certainly be made. Is it not amazing that,
notwithstanding the enterprise of modern science, the ancients were better acquainted with
the properties, and even the dimensions of the Lake Asphaltites, than the most learned nations
of Europe in our own times? It is described by Aristotle, Strabo, Diodorus Siculus, Pliny,
Tacitus, Solinus, Josephus, Galen, and Dioscorides. The Abbot of Santa Saba is the only person
for many centuries who has made the tour of the Dead Sea. From his account we learn, through
the medium of Father Nau, that at its extremity it is separated, as it were, into two parts,
and that there is a way by which you may walk across it, being only mid-leg deep, at least
in summer; that there the land rises, and bounds another small lake of a circular or rather
an oval figure, surrounded with plains and hills of salt; and that the neighbouring country
is peopled by innumerable Arabs.[112]

It is known that seven considerable streams fall into this basin, and hence it was long supposed
that it must discharge its superfluous stores by subterranean channels into the Mediteranean
or the Red Sea. This opinion is now everywhere relinquished, in consequence of the learned
remarks on the effect of evaporation in a hot climate, published by Dr. Halley many years ago;
the justness of which were admitted by Dr. Shaw, though he calculated that the Jordan alone
threw into the lake every day more than six million tuns of water. It is deserving of notice,
that the Arabian philosophers, if we may believe Mariti, had anticipated Halley in his conclusions
in regard to the absorbent power of a dry atmosphere.[113]

The marvellous properties usually assigned to the Dead Sea by the earlier travellers have vanished
upon a more rigid investigation. It is now known that bodies sink or float upon it, in proportion
to their specific gravity; and that, although the water is so dense as to be favourable to
swimmers, no security is found against the common accident of drowning. Josephus indeed asserts
that Vespasian, in order to ascertain the fact now mentioned, commanded a number of his slaves
to be bound hand and foot and thrown into the deepest part of the lake; and that, so far from
any of them sinking, they all maintained their place on the surface until it pleased the emperor
to have them taken out. But this anecdote, although perfectly consistent with truth, does not
justify all the inferences which have been drawn from it. "Being willing to make an experiment,"
says Maundrell, "I went into it, and found that it bore up my body in swimming with an uncommon
force; but as for that relation of some authors, that men wading into it were buoyed up to
the top as soon as they got as deep as the middle, I found it, upon trial, not true."[114]

The water of this sea has been frequently analyzed both in France and England. The specific
gravity of it, according to Malte Brun, is 1.211, that of fresh water being 1.000. It is perfectly
transparent. The applications of tests, or reagents, prove that it contains the muriatic and
sulphuric acids. There is no alumina in it, nor does it appear that it is saturated with marine
salt or muriate of soda. It holds in solution the following substances, and in the proportions
here stated:

Muriate of lime    3.920 Magnesia          10.246 Soda              10.360 Sulphate of lime    .054

We need not add that such a liquid must be equally salt and bitter. As might be expected, too,
it is found to deposit its salts in copious incrustations, and to prove a ready agent in all
processes of petrifaction. Clothes, boots, and hats, if dipped in the lake, or accidentally
wetted with its water, are found, when dried, to be covered with a thick coating of these minerals.
Hence, we cannot be surprised to hear that the Lake Asphaltites does not present any variety
of fish. Mariti asserts that it produces none, and even that those which are carried into it
by the rapidity of the Jordan perish almost immediately upon being immerged in its acrid waves.
A few shell-snails constitute the sole tenants of its dreary shores, unmixed either with the
helix or the muscle.

It was formerly believed that the approach to Asphaltites was fatal to birds, and that, like
another lake of antiquity, it had the power of drawing them down from the wing into its poisonous
waters. This dream, propagated by certain visionary travellers, is now completely discredited.
Flocks of swallows may be seen skimming along its surface with the utmost impunity, while the
absence of all other species is easily explained by a glance at the naked hills and barren
plains, which supply no vegetable food.

The historian Josephus, who measured the Dead Sea, found that in length it extended about five
hundred and eighty stadia, and in breadth one hundred and fifty,--according to our standard,
somewhat more than seventy miles by nineteen. A recent traveller, to whose unpublished journal
we have repeatedly alluded, remarks that the lake, when he visited it, was sunk or hollow,
and that the banks had been recently under water, being still very miry and difficult to pass.
The shores were covered with dry wood, some of it good timber, which they say is brought by
the Jordan from the country of the Druses. "The water is pungently salt, like oxymuriate of
soda. It is incredibly buoyant. G---- bathed in it, and when he lay still on his back or belly,
he floated with one-fourth at least of his whole body above the water. He described the sensation
as extraordinary, and more like lying on a feather-bed than floating on water. On the other
hand, he found the greatest resistance in attempting to move through it: it smarted his eyes
excessively. I put a piece of stick in: it required a good deal of pressure to make it sink,
and when let go it bounded out again like a blown bladder. The water was clear, and of a yellowish
tinge, which might be from the colour of the stones at bottom, or from the hazy atmosphere.
There were green shrubs down to the water's edge in one place, and nothing to give an idea
of any thing blasting in the neighbourhood of the sea; the desert character of the soil extending
far beyond the possibility of being affected by its influence."[115]

The bitumen supplied by this singular basin affords the means of a comfortable livelihood to
a considerable number of Arabs who frequent its shores. The Pasha of Damascus, who finds it
a valuable article of commerce, purchases at a small price the fruit of their labours, or supplies
them with food, clothing, and a few ornaments in return for it. In ancient times it found a
ready market in Egypt, where it was used in large quantities for embalming the dead: it was
also occasionally employed as a substitute for stone, and appeared in the walls of houses and
even of temples.

Associated with the Dead Sea, every reader has heard of the apples of Sodom, a species of fruit
which, extremely beautiful to the eye, is bitter to the taste, and full of dust. Tacitus, in
the fifth book of his history, alludes to this singular fact, but, as usual, in language so
brief and ambiguous, that no light can be derived from his description, atra et inania velut
in cinerem vanescunt. Some travellers, unable to discover this singular production, have considered
it merely as a figure of speech, depicting the deceitful nature of all vicious enjoyments.
Hasselquist regards it as the production of a small plant called Solanum melongena, a species
of nightshade, which is to be found abundantly in the neighbourhood of Jericho. He admits that
the apples are sometimes full of dust; but this, he maintains, appears only when the fruit
is attacked by a certain insect, which converts the whole of the inside into a kind of powder,
leaving the rind wholly entire, and in possession of its beautiful colour.

M. Seetzen, again, holds the novel opinion, that this mysterious apple contains a sort of cotton
resembling silk; and, having no pulp or flesh in the inside, might naturally enough, when sought
for as food, be denounced by the hungry Bedouin as pleasing to the eye and deceitful to the
palate. Chateaubriand has fixed on a shrub different from any of the others. It grows two or
three leagues from the mouth of the Jordan, and is of a thorny appearance, with small tapering
leaves. Its fruit is exactly like that of the Egyptian lemon, both in size and colour. Before
it is ripe it is filled with a corrosive and saline juice; when dried, it yields a blackish
seed that may be compared to ashes, and which in taste resembles bitter pepper. There can be
little doubt that this is the true apple of Sodom, which flatters the sight while it mocks
the appetite.[116]

In ascending the western shore, the traveller at length reaches the point where the Jordan
mixes its muddy waters with those of the lake. Hasselquist, the only modern author who describes
the mouth of that celebrated river, tells us that the plain which extends from thence to Jericho,
a distance of more than three leagues, is, generally speaking, level, but uncultivated and
barren. The soil is a grayish sandy clay, so loose that the horses often sank up to the knees
in it. The whole surface of the earth is covered with salt in the same manner as on the banks
of the Nile, and would, it is probable, prove no less fruitful were it irrigated with equal
care. The stones on the beach, it is added, were all quartz, but of various colours; some specimens
of which, having a slaty structure, emitted, when exposed to fire, a strong smell of bitumen,
thereby denoting, perhaps, its volcanic origin.

There is a great want of unanimity among authors in respect to the width of the Jordan. The
Swede whom we have just quoted relates, that opposite to Jericho it was eight paces over, the
banks perpendicular, six feet in height, the water deep, muddy, warm rather than cold, and
much inferior in quality to that of the Nile. Chateaubriand, again, who measured it in several
places, reports that it was about fifty feet in breadth, and six feet deep close to the shore,--a
discrepancy which must arise from the period of the year when it was seen by these distinguished
writers.[117]

The Old Testament abounds with allusions to the swellings of Jordan; but at present, whether
the current has deepened its channel, or whether the climate is less moist than in former days,
this occurrence is seldom witnessed,--the river has forgotten its ancient greatness. Maundrell
could discern no sign or probability of such overflowings; for although he was there on the
30th of March,--the proper season of the inundation,--the river was running two yards at least
under the level of its banks. The margin of the stream, however, continues as of old to be
closely covered with a natural forest of tamarisk, willows, oleanders, and similar trees, and
to afford a retreat to several species of wild beasts. Hence the fine metaphor of the prophet
Jeremiah, who assimilates an enraged enemy to a lion coming up "from the swellings of Jordan,"
driven from his lair by the annual flood, and compelled to seek shelter in the surrounding desert.

Jericho, which is at present a miserable village inhabited by half-naked Arabs, derives all
its importance from history. It was the first city which the Israelites reduced upon entering
the Holy Land. Five hundred and thirty years afterward it was rebuilt by Heliel of Bethel,
who succeeded in restoring its population, its splendour, and its commerce; in which flourishing
condition it appears to have continued during several centuries. Mark Antony, in the pride
of power, presented to Cleopatra the whole territory of Jericho. Vespasian, in the course of
the sanguinary war which he prosecuted in Judea, sacked its walls, and put its inhabitants
to the sword. Re-established by Adrian in the 138th year of our faith, it was doomed at no
distant era to experience new disasters. It was again repaired by the Christians, who made
it the seat of a bishop; but in the twelfth century it was overthrown by the infidels, and
has not since emerged from its ruins. Of all its magnificent buildings there remain only the
part of one tower, supposed to be the dwelling of Zaccheus the publican, and a quantity of
rubbish, which is understood to mark the line of its ancient walls.

Mr. Buckingham saw reason to believe that the true site of Jericho, as described by Josephus,
was at a greater distance from the river than the village of Rahhah, commonly supposed to represent
the City of Palms. Descending from the mountains which bound the valley on the western side,
he observed the ruins of a large settlement, covering at least a square mile, whence, as well
as from the remains of aqueducts and fountains, he was led to conclude that it must have been
a place of considerable consequence. Some of the more striking objects among the wrecks of
this ancient city were large tumuli, evidently the work of art, and resembling those of the
Greek and Trojan heroes on the plains of Ilium. There were, besides, portions of ruined buildings,
shafts of columns, and a capital of the Corinthian order; tokens not at all ambiguous of former
grandeur and of civilized life.

Josephus fixes the position of Jericho at the distance of one hundred and fifty furlongs from
Jerusalem, and sixty from the river Jordan; stating that the country, as far as the capital,
is desert and hilly, while to the shores of the Lake Asphaltites it is low, though equally
waste and unfruitful. Nothing can apply more accurately, in all its particulars, than this
description does to the ruins just mentioned. The spot lies at the very foot of the sterile
mountains of Judea, which may be said literally to overhang it on the west; and these ridges
are still as barren, as rugged, and as destitute of inhabitants as formerly, throughout their
whole extent, from the Lake of Tiberias to the Dead Sea. The distance, by the computation in
time, amounted to six hours, or nearly twenty miles, from Jerusalem; the space between the
supposed city and the river being little more than one-third of that amount, the precise proportion
indicated by the Jewish historian.

The soil round Jericho was long celebrated for a precious balsam, which used to be sold for
double its weight of silver. The historian Justin relates, that the trees from which it exudes
bear a resemblance to firs, though they are lower, and are cultivated after the manner of vines.
He adds, that the wealth of the Jewish nation arises from their produce, as they grow in no
other part of Syria. At present, however, there is not a tree of any description, either palm
or balsam, to be seen near the site of this deserted town; but it is admitted, that the complete
desolation with which its ruins are invested ought to be attributed to the cessation of industry
rather than to any perceptible change either in the climate or the soil.

Rahhah stands about four miles nearer the river, or about half-way between the assumed position
of Jericho and the bank of the current. It consists of about fifty dwellings, all very mean
in their appearance, and every one fenced in front with thorny bushes; one of the most effectual
defences that could be raised against the incursions of the Bedouins, whose horses will not
approach these formidable thickets. The inhabitants, without exception, are professed believers
in the creed of Islamism. Their habits are those of shepherds rather than of cultivators of
the soil; this last duty, indeed, when performed at all, being done chiefly by the women and
children, as the men roam the plain on horseback, and derive the principal means of subsistence
from robbery and plunder. They are governed by a sheik, whose influence among them is more
like the authority of a father over his children than that of a magistrate; and who is, moreover,
checked in the exercise of his power, by the knowledge that he would instantly be deprived
of life and station were he to exceed the bounds which, in all rude countries, are opposed
even to the caprices of despotism. It is remarkable that the name of this village corresponds
to Rahab, the name of the hostess who received into her house the Hebrew spies, and signifies
odour or perfume; the slight change on the form of the Arabic term implying no difference in
the import of the root whence they are both originally derived.

The mountains on the eastern side of the Jordan are more lofty than those which skirt the Vale
of Jericho, being not less than 2000 feet in height. When entering the mountains which protect
the western side of the plain, the attention of the traveller is invited to the Fountain of
Elisha, the waters of which were sweetened by the power of the prophet. The men of Jericho
represented to him that though the situation of the town was pleasant, "the water was naught,
and the ground barren. So the waters were healed unto this day, according to the saying of
Elisha which he spake."[119]

Its waters are at present received in a basin about nine or ten paces long, and five or six
broad; and from thence, issuing out in good plenty, divide themselves into several small streams,
dispersing their refreshment to all the land as far as Jericho, and rendering it exceedingly
fruitful. Advancing into the savage country through which the usual road to the capital is
formed, the tourist soon finds himself at the foot of the mountain called Quarantina, from
being the supposed scene of the temptation and fast of forty days endured by our Saviour, who,

  --"looking round on every aide, beheld
  A pathless desert dusk with horrid shades:
  The way he came not having marked, return
  Was difficult, by human steps untrod;
  And he still on was led, but with such thoughts
  Accompanied of things past and to come
  Lodg'd in his breast, as well might recommend
  Such solitude before choicest society."[120]

The neighbourhood of this lofty eminence is, according to Mr. Maundrell, a dry, miserable,
barren place, consisting of high rocky mountains, so torn and disordered, "as if the earth
had here suffered some great convulsion, in which its very bowels had been turned outward."
In a deep valley are seen the ruins of small cells and cottages, thought to be the remains
of those sequestered habitations to which hermits were wont to retire for the uses of penance
and mortification; and it is remarked that, in the whole earth, a more comfortless and desert
place could not have been selected for so pious a purpose. From these hills of desolation,
however, there is obtained a magnificent prospect of the Plain of Jericho, the Dead Sea, and
of the distant summits of Arabia; for which reason the highest of the group has been assigned
by tradition as the very spot whence all the kingdoms of the world were seen in a moment of
time. It is, as St. Matthew styles it, an exceeding high mountain, and in its ascent not only
difficult but dangerous. It has a small chapel at the top, and another about half-way down,
founded upon a projecting part of the rock. Near the latter are observed several caves and
holes, excavated by the solitaries, who thought it the most suitable place for undergoing the
austerities of Lent,--a practice which has not even at the present day fallen altogether into
disuse. Hasselquist describes the path as "dangerous beyond imagination. I went as far up on
this terrible mountain of Temptation as prudence would admit, but ventured not to go to the
top; whither I sent my servant to bring what natural curiosities he could find, while I gathered
what plants and insects I could find below."[121]

Mariti, whose religious zeal was fanned into a temporary flame, ascended the formidable steep
as far as the grottoes, which he delineates with much minuteness. He pronounces the chapel
inaccessible from the side on which he stood, and is very doubtful whether it could now be
approached on any quarter, the ancient road being so much neglected. But it should seem that
most travellers are smitten with the feeling which seized the breast of Maundrell, although
they all have not the candour to acknowledge it. Alluding to the Arabs, who demanded a sum
of money for liberty to ascend, he says, "we departed without further trouble, not a little
glad to have so good an excuse for not climbing so dangerous a precipice."[122]

The imagination of Milton has thrown a captivating splendour around this scene, which, at the
same time, he appears to have transferred to the mountain-range beyond the Jordan in the country
of the Moabites.

  "Thus wore out night; and now the herald lark
  Left his ground-nest, high towering to descry
  The morn's approach, and greet her with his song,
  As lightly from his grassy couch up rose
  Our Saviour, and found all was but a dream;
  Fasting he went to sleep, and fasting waked. Chateaubriand informs us that it
is broad, and in some parts paved; having undergone, as he conjectures,
several improvements while the country was in possession of the Romans. On
the top of a mountain there is the appearance of a castle, which, we may
conclude, was meant to protect and command the road; and at a little
distance, in the bottom of a deep gloomy valley is the Place of Blood,
called in the Hebrew tongue Abdomim, where once stood a small town
belonging to the tribe of Judah, and where the good Samaritan is imagined
to have succoured the wounded traveller who had fallen into the hands of
thieves. That sombre dell is still entitled to its horrible distinction;
it is still the place of blood, of robbery, and of murder; the most
dangerous pass for him who undertakes to go down from Jerusalem to
Jericho.

As a proof of this, we may shortly mention an assault which was made upon Sir F. Henniker,
who a few years ago resolved to accomplish that perilous journey. "The route is over hills,
rocky, barren, and uninteresting. We arrived at a fountain, and here my two attendants paused
to refresh themselves; the day was so hot that I was anxious to finish the journey and hasten
forwards. A ruined building, situated on the summit of a hill, was now within sight, and I
urged my horse towards it; the janizary galloped by me, and making signs for me not to precede
him, he himself rode into and round the building, and then motioned me to advance. We next
came to a hill, through the very apex of which has been cut a passage, the rocks overhanging
it on either side. I was in the act of passing through this ditch when a bullet whizzed by
close to my head. I saw no one, and had scarcely time to think when another was fired, some
short distance in advance. I could yet see no one, the janizary was beneath the brow of the
hill in his descent. I looked back, but my servant was not yet within sight. I looked up, and
within a few inches of my head were three muskets, and three men taking aim at me. Escape or
resistance was alike impossible. I got off my horse. Eight men jumped down from the rocks and
commenced a scramble for me.--As he (the janizary) passed, I caught at a rope hanging from
his saddle; I had hoped to leap upon his horse, but found myself unable; my feet were dreadfully
lacerated by the honeycombed rocks; nature would support me no longer; I fell, but still clung
to the rope; in this manner I was drawn some few yards, till, bleeding from my ankle to my
shoulder, I resigned myself to my fate. As soon as I stood up one of my pursuers took aim at
me; but the other, casually advancing between us, prevented his firing. He then ran up, and
with his sword aimed such a blow as would not have required a second: his companion prevented
its full effect, so that it merely cut my ear in halves, and laid open one aide of my face:
they then stripped me naked."[124]

It is impossible not to suspect that the depraved government at Jerusalem connives at such
instances of violence in order to give some value to the protection which they sell at a very
dear rate to Christian travellers. The administration of Mohammed Ali would be a blessing to
Palestine, inasmuch as it would soon render the intercourse between the capital and the Dead
Sea as safe as that between Alexandria and Grand Cairo.

Refreshing himself at the fountain where our Lord and his apostles, according to a venerable
tradition, were wont to rest on their journey to the holy city, the tourist sets his heart
on revisiting the sacred remains of that decayed metropolis. When at the summit of the Mount
of Olives, he is again struck with the mixture of magnificence and ruin which marks the queen
of nations in her widowed estate. Owing to the clear atmosphere and the absence of smoke, the
view is so distinct that one might count the separate houses. The streets are tolerably regular,
straight, and well paved; but they are narrow and dull, and almost all on a declivity. The
fronts of the houses, which are generally two or three stories high, are quite plain, simply
constructed of stone, without the least ornament; so that in walking past them a stranger might
fancy himself in the galleries of a vast prison. The windows are very few and extremely small;
and, by a singular whim, the doors are so low that it is commonly requisite to bend the body
nearly double in order to enter them. Some families have gardens of moderate dimensions; but,
upon the whole, the ground within the walls is fully occupied with buildings, if we except
the vast enclosures in which are placed the mosques and churches.

There is not observed at Jerusalem any square, properly so called; the shops and markets are
universally opened in the public streets. Provisions are said to be abundant and cheap, including
excellent meat, vegetables, and fruit. Water is supplied by the atmosphere; and preserved in
capacious cisterns; nor is it necessary, except when a long drought has exhausted the usual
stock, that the inhabitants should have recourse to the spring near the brook Kedron. Rice
is much used for food; but as the country is quite unsuited to the production of that aquatic
grain, it is imported from Egypt in return for oil, the staple of Palestine.

There is a great diversity of costume, everybody adopting that which he likes best, whether
Arab, Syrian, or Turk; but the lower order of people generally wear a shirt fastened round
the waist with a girdle, after the example of their neighbours in the desert. Ali Bey remarks,
that he saw very few handsome females in the metropolis; on the contrary, they had in general
that bilious appearance so common in the East,--a pale citron colour, or a dead yellow, like
paper or plaster, and, wearing a white fillet round the circumference of their faces, they
have not unfrequently the appearance of walking corpses. The children, however, are much healthier
and prettier than those of Arabia and Egypt.

The Christians and Jews wear, as a mark of distinction, a blue turban. The villagers and shepherds
use white ones, or striped like those of the Moslem. The Christian women appear in public with
their faces uncovered, as they do in Europe.

The arts are cultivated to a certain extent, but the sciences have entirely disappeared. There
existed formerly large schools belonging to the harem; but there are hardly any traces of them
left, if their place be not supplied by a few small seminaries where children of every form
of worship learn to read and write the code of their respective religion. The grossest ignorance
prevails even among persons of high rank, who, on the first interview, appear to have received
a liberal education.[125]

The Arabic language is generally spoken at Jerusalem, though the Turkish is much used among
the better class. The inhabitants are composed of people of different nations and different
religions, who inwardly despise one another on account of their varying opinions; but as the
Christians are very numerous, there reigns among the whole no small degree of complaisance,
as well as an unrestrained intercourse in matters of business, amusement, and even of religion.[126]

It is well remarked by Chateaubriand, who had travelled among the native tribes of North America
as extensively as among the Arabs of the Syrian wilderness, that amid the rudeness of the latter
you still perceive a certain degree of delicacy in their manners; you see that they are natives
of that East which is the cradle of all the arts, all the sciences, all the religions. Buried
at the extremity of the West, the Canadian inhabits valleys shaded by eternal forests and watered
by immense rivers; the Arab, cast, as it were, upon the high road of the world between Africa
and Asia, roves in the brilliant regions of Aurora over a soil without trees and without water.

The Jews--the children of the kingdom--have been cast out, and many have come from the east
and the west to occupy their place in the desolate land promised to their fathers. They usually
take up their abode in the narrow space between the Temple and the foot of Mount Zion, defended
from the tyranny of their Turkish masters by their indigence and misery. Here they appear covered
with rags, and sitting in the dust, with their eyes fixed on the ruins of their ancient sanctuary.
It has been observed that those descendants of Abraham who come from foreign countries to fix
their residence at Jerusalem live but a short time; while such as are natives of Palestine
are so wretchedly poor as to be obliged to send every year to raise contributions among their
brethren of Egypt and Barbary.[127]

The picture given by Dr. Richardson is much more flattering. He assures his readers that many
of the Jews are rich and in comfortable circumstances; but that they are careful to conceal
their wealth, and even their comfort, from the jealous eye of their rulers, lest, by awakening
their cupidity, some plot of robbery or murder should be devised. The whole population has
been estimated by different travellers as amounting to from fifteen to thirty thousand, consisting
of Mohammedans, Jews, and the various sects of Christians.

Upon leaving the northern gate of Jerusalem, on the road which leads to Damascus, there is
seen a large grotto much venerated by Christians, Turks, and Jews, said to have been for some
time the residence, or rather the prison, of the prophet Jeremiah. The bed of the holy man
is shown, in the form of a rocky shelf, about eight feet from the ground; and the spot is likewise
pointed out on which he is understood to have written his book of Lamentations. In the days
of Maundrell, this excavation was occupied by a college of dervises.

We have already alluded to the Sepulchres of the Kings as very singular remains of ancient
architecture, and standing at a little distance from the city. There still prevails some obscurity
in regard to the origin and intention of these places of burial, occasioned chiefly by the
fact recorded in Holy Scripture, that the tombs of the kings of Judah were on Mount Zion. Pococke
held the opinion, that they derived their name from Helena, the queen of Adiabene, whose body
was deposited in a cave outside the northern wall of Jerusalem; a conclusion which derives
some countenance from the language of Josephus, and has been adopted by Dr. Clarke. M. de Chateaubriand,
on the contrary, supposes these grottoes to have been appropriated to the family of Herod;
and in support of his views quotes a passage from the Jewish historian, who, speaking of the
wall which Titus erected to press Jerusalem still more closely than before, says, that "this
wall, returning towards the north, enclosed the sepulchre of Herod." Now this, adds the Frenchman,
is the situation of the royal caverns.

But whoever was buried here, this is certain, to use the words of the accurate Maundrell, that
the place itself discovers so great an expense both of labour and treasure, that we may well
suppose it to have been the work of kings. You approach it on the east side through an entrance
cut out of the rock, which admits you into an open court of about forty paces square. On the
south side is a portico nine paces long and four broad, likewise hewn out of the natural rock,
and having an architrave running along its front adorned with sculpture of fruits and flowers.
The passage into the sepulchre is now so greatly obstructed with stones and rubbish that it
is no easy matter to creep through; but having overcome this difficulty you arrive at a large
room, seven or eight yards square, excavated in the solid body of the hill. It sides and ceiling
are so exactly square, and its angles so just, that no architect could form a more regular
apartment; while the whole is so firm and entire, that it resembles a chamber hollowed out
of one piece of marble. From this room you pass into six others, all of the same construction;
the two innermost being somewhat deeper than the rest, and are descended to by a certain number
of steps.

In every one of these, except the first, were coffins of stone placed in niches formed in the
sides of the chamber. They had at first been covered with handsome lids; but the most of them
have been long broken to pieces, and either scattered about the apartment, or entirely removed.
One of white marble was observed by Dr. Clarke, adorned all over with the richest and most
beautiful carving; though, like all the other sculptured work in the tombs, it represented
nothing of the human figure, nor of any living thing, but consisted entirely of foliage and
flowers, and principally of the leaves and branches of the vine. The receptacles for the dead
bodies are not much larger than European coffins; but, having the more regular form of parallelograms,
they thereby differ from the usual appearance presented in the sepulchral crypts of the country,
where the soros is of considerable size, and generally resembles a cistern. The taste manifested
in the interior of these chambers seems also to denote a later period in the history of the
arts; the skill and neatness visible in the carving is admirable, and there is much of ornament
displayed in several parts of the work.

But the most surprising thing belonging to these subterranean chambers is their doors; of which,
when Mr. Maundrell visited Jerusalem, there was still one remaining. "It consisted," says he,
"of a plank of stone of about six inches in thickness, and in its other dimensions equalling
the size of an ordinary door, or somewhat less. It was carved in such a manner as to resemble
a piece of wainscot: the stone of which it was made was visibly of the same kind with the whole
rock; and it turned upon two hinges in the nature of axles. These hinges were of the same entire
piece of stone with the door, and were contained in two holes of the immoveable rock, one at
the top and another at the bottom."[128]

We are informed by Dr. Clarke, that the same sort of contrivance is to be found among the sepulchres
at Telmessus; and, moreover, that the ancients had the art of being able to close these doors
in such a manner that no one could have access to the tomb who was not acquainted with the
secret method of opening them, unless by violating the abode of the dead, and forcing a passage
through the stone. This has been done in several instances at the place just named; but the
doors, though broken, still remain closed with their hinges unimpaired.[129]

In pursuing the road to Nablous, the ancient Shechem, the first village which meets the eye
of the traveller is Beer, so named from the well or spring where the wayfaring man stops to
quench his thirst. The inhabitants, who appear to be chiefly Arabs, are in the greatest poverty,
oppressed and alarmed by the incessant demands of their Turkish rulers. It is the Michmash
of Scripture, celebrated as the place whither Jotham fled from the anger of his brother Abimelech.
It presents, too, the remains of an old church, created, as tradition reports, by the pious
Helena, on tho spot where the Virgin sat down to bewail the absence of her son, who had tarried
behind in Jerusalem to commune with the doctors in the Temple.

Beyond this interesting hamlet, at the distance of about four hours, is Leban, called Lebonah
in the Bible, a village situated on the eastern side of a delicious vale. The road between
these two places is carried through a wild and very hilly country, destitute of trees or other
marks of cultivation, and rendered almost totally unproductive by the barbarism of the government.
In a narrow dell, formed by two lofty precipices, are the ruins of a monastery, being in the
neighborhood of that mystic Bethel where Jacob enjoyed his vision of heavenly things, and had
his stony couch made easy by the beautiful picture of ministering angels ascending and descending
from the presence of the Eternal.

The next object of interest is connected with the name of the same patriarch. It is Jacob's
Well,--the scene of the memorable conference between our Saviour and the woman of Samaria.
Such a locality was too important to be omitted by Helena while selecting sites for Christian
churches. Over it, accordingly, was erected a large edifice; of which, however, the "voracity
of time, aided by the Turks," has left nothing but a few foundations remaining. Maundrell tells
us that "the well is covered at present with an old stone vault, into which you are let down
through a very straight hole; and then removing a broad flat stone you discover the mouth of
the well itself. It is dug in a firm rock, and extends about three yards in diameter and thirty-five
in depth; five of which we found full of water. This confutes a story commonly told to travellers
who do not take the pains to examine the well, namely, that it is dry all the year round except
on the anniversary of that day on which our Blessed Lord sat upon it; but then bubbles up with
abundance of water."[130]

At this point the traveller enters the narrow valley of Shechem, or Sychar, as it is termed
in the New Testament, overhung on either side by the two mountains Gerizim and Ebal. These
eminences, it is well known, have obtained much celebrity as the theatre on which was pronounced
the sanction of the Divine law--the blessings which attend obedience, and the curses which
follow the violation of the heavenly statutes. Are they not on the other side Jordan, by the
way where the sun goeth down, in the land of the Canaanites, which dwell in the champaign over
against Gilgal, beside the plains of Moreh?"[131]

Every reader is aware that the Samaritans, whose principal residence since the captivity has
been at Shechem, have a place of worship on Mount Gerizim, to which they repair at certain
seasons to perform the rites of their religion. It was upon the same hill, according to the
reading in their version of the Pentateuch, that the Almighty commanded the children of Israel
to set up great stones covered with plaster, on which to inscribe the body of their law; to
erect an altar; to offer peace-offerings; and to rejoice before the Lord their God. In the
Hebrew edition of the same inspired books, Mount Ebal is selected as the scene of these pious
services;--a variation which the Samaritans openly ascribe to the hatred and malignity of the
Jews, who, they assert, have in this passage corrupted the sacred oracles. In the immediate
vicinity of the town is seen a small mosque, which is said to cover the sepulchre of Joseph,
and to be situated in the field bought by Jacob from Hamor, the father of Shechem, as is related
in the book of Genesis, and alluded to by St. John in the fourth chapter of his gospel.[132]

The road from Leban to Nablous, or Naplosa, is described by Dr. Clarke as being mountainous,
rocky, and full of loose stones. Yet, he adds, the cultivation is everywhere marvellous; affording
one of the most striking pictures of human industry that it is possible to behold. The limestone
rocks and shingly valleys of Judea are entirely covered with plantations of figs, vines, and
olive-trees; not a single spot seemed to be neglected. The hills, from their bases to their
upmost summits, are overspread with gardens; all of them free from weeds, and in the highest
state of improvement. Even the sides of the most barren mountains have been rendered fertile,
by being divided into terraces, like steps rising one above another, upon which soil has been
accumulated with astonishing labour. A sight of this territory can alone convey any adequate
idea of its surprising produce; it is truly the Eden of the East, rejoicing in the abundance
of its wealth. The effect of this upon the people was strikingly portrayed in their countenances.
Instead of the depressed and gloomy looks seen on the desolated plains belonging to the Pasha
of Damascus, health and hilarity everywhere prevailed. Under a wise and beneficent government,
the produce of the Holy Land, it is asserted, would exceed all calculation. Its perennial harvests,
the salubrity of its air, its limpid springs, its rivers, lakes, plains, hills, and vales,
added to the serenity of its climate, prove this land to be indeed a "field which the Lord
hath blessed."[133]

The ancient Shechem is one of the most prosperous towns in the Holy Land, being still the metropolis
of a rich and extensive country, and abounding in agricultural wealth. Nor is there any thing
finer than its appearance when viewed from the heights by which it is surrounded. It strikes
the eye of the traveller who advances from the north, as being imbosomed in the most delightful
and fragrant bowers, half-concealed by rich gardens and stately trees, collected into groves
all round the beautiful valley in which it stands. There is a considerable trade, as well as
a flourishing manufacture of soap; and the population has been reckoned as high as ten thousand,
an estimate, however, which Mr. Buckingham thinks somewhat overrated. Within the town are six
mosques, five baths, one Christian church, an excellent covered bazaar for fine goods, and
an open one for provisions, besides numerous cotton-cloth manufactories, and shops of every
description. The inhabitants are chiefly Mohammedans. The Jews, inheriting their ancient enmity
towards the Samaritans, avoid the country which the latter formerly possessed; while the Christians,
alienated by the suspicion of heresy among their brethren at Nablous, prefer the more orthodox
assemblies at Jerusalem and Nazareth.

The Samaritans themselves do not exceed forty in number. They have a synagogue in the town,
where they perform divine service every Saturday. Four times a year they go in solemn procession
to the old temple on Mount Gerizim; on which occasion they meet before sunrise, and continue
reading the Law till noon. On one of these days they kill six or seven rams. They have but
one school in Nablous where their language is taught, though they take much pride in preserving
ancient manuscripts of their Pentateuch in the original character. Mr. Connor saw a copy which
is reported to be three thousand five hundred years old, but was not allowed to examine, nor
even to touch it.

If any thing connected with the memory of past ages be calculated to awaken local enthusiasm,
the land around this city is eminently entitled to that distinction. The sacred record of events
transacted in the fields of Shechem is from our earliest years remembered with delight. "Along
the valley," observes a late traveller, "we beheld a company of Ishmaelites coming from Gilead,
as in the days of Reuben and Judah, with their camels, bearing spicery, and balm, and myrrh;
who would gladly have purchased another Joseph of his brethren, and-conveyed Him as a slave
to some Potiphar in Egypt. Upon the hills around flocks and herds were feeding as of old; nor
in the simple garb of the shepherds of Samaria was there any thing to contradict the notions
we may entertain of the appearance formerly exhibited by the sons of Jacob."[134]

It has been remarked in reference to Jacob's Well, where our Lord held his conversation with
the woman of Samaria, that no Christian scholar ever read the fourth chapter of St. John's
Gospel without being struck with the numerous internal evidences of truth which crowd upon
the mind in its perusal. Within so small a compass it is impossible to find, in other writings,
so many sources of reflection and of interest. Independently of its importance as a theological
document, it concentrates so much information that a volume might be filled with its singular
illustration of the history of the Jews and the geography of the country. All that can be collected
upon these subjects from Josephus seems to be but a comment on this chapter. The journey of
our Lord from Judea into Galilee--the cause of it--his passage through Samaria--his approach
to the metropolis of that country--its name--his arrival at the Amorite field which terminates
the narrow Valley of Schechem--the ancient custom of stopping at a well--the female employment
of drawing water--the disciples sent into the city for food, by which the situation of the
well and of the town is so obviously implied--the question of the woman referring to existing
prejudices which separated the Jews from the Samaritans--the depth of the well--the oriental
allusion contained in the expression "living water"--the history of the well itself, and the
customs thereby illustrated--the worship upon Mount Gerizim--all these occur within a few verses,
and supply a species of evidence for the truth of the narrative in which they are embodied
that no candid mind has ever been able to resist.[135]

The ancient Samaria presents itself to the traveller in these days under the name of Sebaste,
or the Venerable,--an appellation conferred upon it by Herod in honour of his patron Augustus.
The Jewish historian describes at length the buildings erected by the Idumean prince, especially
a citadel, and a noble temple which he intended to exhibit to future generations as a specimen
of his taste and munificence. He adds, that the town was twenty furlongs in circumference,
and distant one day's journey from Jerusalem. It is computed by modern tourists to be more
than forty miles. The situation is extremely beautiful as well as naturally strong, being placed
on a large hill encompassed all round by a broad deep valley, and therefore capable of an easy
and complete fortification. But the splendid city of Herod is now reduced to a village, small
and poor, exhibiting only the remains of its former greatness. In one place, according to Dr.
Richardson, there are sixty columns of the Ionic order extended in a single row, marking the
site of some gorgeous structure erected by the vassal of Augustus. Mr. Buckingham counted eighty-three
of these pillars, and alludes to a tradition current among the natives, that they formed part
of Herod's own palace.

Mr. Maundrell relates, that in his time the place where the city had stood was entirely converted
into gardens; and all the tokens that remain to testify that there ever was such a metropolis
are only a large square piazza surrounded with pillars, and some poor ruins of a church, said
to have been built by the Empress Helena over the place where St. John the Baptist was both
imprisoned and beheaded. In the body of this temple you go down a staircase into the very dungeon
where that holy blood was shed. The Turks hold the prison in great veneration, and over it
have erected a small mosque; but for a little piece of money they suffer you to go in and satisfy
your curiosity at pleasure.

A hundred and thirty years, aided by the destructive habits of Mohammedans, seem to have made
a deep impression upon the remains of Sebaste; for when Dr. Clarke passed through it, he could
not discover even the relics of a great city, and was, therefore, disposed to question the
existence of the splendid ruins mentioned by Maundrell, and more minutely described by Richardson
and Buckingham. He is inclined to identify the site of the ancient Samaria with the high ground
on which stands the castle of Santorri; but his reasoning is not sufficiently cogent to satisfy
the mind even of the least reflecting among his readers.

At this point we leave the territory of Ephraim, and pass into that of the half-tribe of Manasseh.
Pursuing his course northwards, the traveller reaches a small hamlet called Bethamareen; and
afterward, at the distance of three or four miles, he finds himself at Gibba, a village surrounded
with trees bearing olives and pomegranates, and occupying a lofty station over a narrow valley.
This place is succeeded by Sannour, which appears to be nothing more than a castle erected
on an insular hill, and is more commonly known by the name of Fort Giurali. Another village,
called Abati, presents itself on the right-hand, imbosomed in a grove of fruit trees; but the
stranger, desirous to proceed, advances along the valley until, after having ascended a rising
ground, he beholds stretched out at his feet the fine plain of Esdraelon covered with the richest
pasture.[136]

On the slope of the hill which bounds the southern extremity of this fertile valley stands
the town of Jennin, a place, like most of the cities of Palestine, more remarkable for decayed
grandeur than for actual wealth, beauty, or power. Its ancient name was Ginoa, and it is found
recorded in the works of some of the older writers as a frontier place between Samaria and
Galilee. The population at present is said to amount to about eight hundred; but the ruins
of a palace and a mosque prove that it once possessed a greater importance than now belongs
to it. Marble pillars, fountains, and even piazzas still remain in a very perfect state; an
Arabic inscription over one of which induces the reader to believe that it was erected by a
commander named Selim.

Instead of pursuing our course towards Nazareth and the Lake of Tiberias, we shall now cross
the Jordan into the Land of Gilead, and lay before our readers a brief outline of the discoveries
which have been recently made in that section of Palestine, the inheritance of Reuben and of
Gad. We have already remarked, that to the indefatigable exertions of Dr. Seetzen the world
are indebted for much of the knowledge they possess relative to the ancient city of Geraza,
the ruins of which are pointed out by the Arabs under the name of Djarash.

Approaching it from the south, the traveller first observes a triumphal gateway, nearly entire,
bearing a striking resemblance in point of workmanship to the remains of Antinoe in Upper Egypt.
The front presents four columns of a small diameter, and constructed of many separate pieces
of stone; their pedestals are of a square form, but tall and slender. On each of these is placed
a design of leaves, very like a Corinthian capital without the volutes; and on this again rises
the shaft, which is plain, and composed of many small portions. As all the columns were broken
near the top, the crowning capitals are not seen. The pediment and frieze are also destroyed;
but enough remains to give an accurate idea of the original design, and to prove that the order
of the architecture was Corinthian. The building appears to have been a detached triumphal
arch, erected for the entrance of some victorious hero passing into the city.

Just within this gateway is perceived an extensive naumachia, or theatre for the exhibition
of sea-fights, constructed of fine masonry, and finished on the top with a large moulding wrought
in the stone. The channels for filling it with water are still visible. Passing onward there
is seen a second gateway, exactly similar in design to the one already mentioned, but connected
here on both sides with the walls of the city, to which it seems to have formed the proper
entrance. Turning to the left the stranger advances into a large and beautiful colonnade arrange
in a circular form, all of the Ionic order, and surmounted by an architrave. He next perceives
beyond this point a long avenue of columns in a straight line, supposed to mark the direction
of some principal street that led through the whole length of the town. These columns are all
of the Corinthian order, and the range on each side is ascended to by a flight of steps.

Making his way along this imaginary street over masses of ruins, his attention is attracted
by four magnificent pillars of greater height and larger diameter than the rest; but, like
all the others, supporting only a entablature, and probably standing before the front of some
principal edifice now destroyed. He next arrives at a square formed by the first intersection
of the main street by one crossing it at right angles, and, like it also, apparently once lined
on both sides by an avenue of columns. At the point of intersection are four masses of building
resembling pedestals; on the top of which there probably stood small Corinthian columns, as
shafts and capitals of that order are now scattered below. Passing the fragments of a solid
wall on the left, which appears to have constituted the front of a large edifice, the tourist
next comes to the ruins of a temple of a semicircular form, with four columns in front, and
facing the principal street in a right line. The spring of its half-dome is still remaining,
as well as several columns of yellow marble and of red granite. The whole seems to have been
executed with peculiar care, especially the sculpture of the friezes, cornices, pediments,
and capitals, which are all of the Corinthian order, and considered not less rich and chaste
than the works of the best ages. On a broken altar near this ruin is observed an inscription,
containing the name of Marcus Aurelius. "Beyond this, again," says Mr. Buckingham, "we had
temples, colonnades, theatres, arched buildings with domes, detached groups of Ionic and Corinthian
columns, bridges, aqueducts, and portions of large buildings scattered here and there in our
way; none of which we could examine with any degree of attention, from the restraint under
which our guides had placed us."[137]

The author of the unpublished journal from which we have already drawn some rich materials,
inspected the remains of Geraza three years ago. "We set out for the ruins, and reached them
before sunrise. Having seen them only partially by a faint light and from a distance the previous
evening, I had not formed a high opinion of them, and wondered that they should ever have been
brought into comparison with Palmyra. A full examination now altered my decision, and left
me and all the party full of admiration at the grandeur and the elegance of the ruins. We were
struck with the view down the main street of the city. Close to us was a temple, a fine mass
of building, surrounded by innumerable fallen columns and ruined cornices. Beneath was the
great street, commencing in an elegant circular or rather oval colonnade of fifty-seven pillars,
and containing a succession of straight colonnades on each side, crossed at right angles by
another line of columns with an entablature. On one side was a splendid temple with columns,
on a height; and on the other a bridge crossing the stream on which the ruins stand. Close
to this temple is a theatre in remarkably high repair; almost all the seats are quite entire.
The proscenium is still sufficiently so to give a complete idea of the plan; and it is easy
to sit on one of the benches and fancy a Greek play performing to a Gerazan audience as it
was seventeen hundred years ago. Proceeding northward along the great street, we soon came
to a building which seemed to me one of the finest things in Jerash. It was a sort of semicircular
temple, in front of which had been a portico of Corinthian columns, composing part of the grand
colonnade. I do not think they can be under fifty feet in height, and their form is very elegant.
The semicircular building itself is covered with a half-dome, and ornamented with particular
richness and beauty. It is remarkable throughout these ruins, how admirably the columns and
buildings are disposed for producing effect in combination. Of two bridges, a good deal of
the one to the east remains, and the arches reach across the river, though it is not passable,
owing to the destruction of the upper part. There is a paved road between the colonnades leading
from the bridge."

The ground occupied by this city, which was nearly in the form of a square, might have been,
enclosed by a line of four English miles in length; the distance from the ruined gateway on
the south to the small temple on the north being about five thousand feet. It stood on the
corresponding sloes of two opposite hills, with a narrow but not a deep valley between them,
through which ran a clear stream of water, springing from fountains near the centre of the
town, and bending its way thence to the southward. But so complete is the desolation of this
once magnificent place, that Bedouin Arabs now encamp among its ruins for the sake of the rivulet
by which they are washed, as they would collect near a well in the midst of their native desert.
Such portions of the soil as are still cultivated, are ploughed by men who have no property
in it; and the same spot accordingly is occupied by different persons every succeeding year,
as time and chance may happen to direct.

Mr. Buckingham thinks that the similarity of situation, as well as of name, would lead to the
conclusion that this Jerash of the Arabs is the same with the Gergasha of the Hebrews. Reland
gives a variety of derivations, quoted from Pliny, Jamblichus, Epiphanius, and Origen; all
of which are much more satisfactory as they regard the position of a certain town in the Land
of Gilead, than as they convey any precise ideas as to its etymological import. After the Romans
conquered Judea, the country beyond the Jordan became one of their favourite colonies; to which,
from the circumstance of its containing ten cities, they gave the name of Decapolis, an appellation
recognised by St. Mark in the seventh chapter of his Gospel. Geraza, it is presumed, was one
of those cities; and although its history is darkened with more than the usual doubt which
attaches to the Jewish annals after the fall of Jerusalem, there is reason to believe that
in the time of Vespasian it suffered the penalty of rebellion, and was finally destroyed by
the Saracens when they attacked the eastern boundaries of the empire.

We must satisfy ourselves with a mere glance at the hills of Gilead; the rich pasture-lands
of the tribe of Reuben, and formerly the kingdom of the gigantic Og, the monarch of Bashan.
It is well known that the Valley of the Jordan is bounded on the east by a range of mountains
still more lofty than those which skirt its western limits; but it was not suspected till lately
that the former concealed in their recesses some of the richest scenery and most valuable land
anywhere to be found in Palestine. Rising gradually from the bed of the river, the traveller
soon finds himself on a platform seven or eight hundred feet above its level; forming a district
of extraordinary fertility, abounding with the most beautiful prospects, clothed with thick
forests, diversified with verdant slopes, and possessing extensive plains of a fine soil, yielding
in nothing to the most prolific parts of Galilee and Samaria. "We continued our way," says
Mr. Buckingham, "to the north-east, through a country, the beauty of which so surprised us,
that we often asked each other what were our sensations; as if to ascertain the reality of
what we saw, and persuade each other by mutual confessions of our delight, that the picture
before us was not an optical illusion. The landscape alone, which varied at every turn, and
gave us new beauties from any point of view, was of itself worth all the pains of an excursion
to the eastward of the Jordan; and the park-like scenes that sometimes softened the romantic
wildness of the general character as a whole, reminded us of similar spots in less neglected
lands."[138]

The scenery continues of the same fascinating description till the traveller reaches the Nahr
el Zerkah, or river Jabbok, the ancient boundary between the Amorites and the Children of Ammon.
The banks are thickly clothed with the oleander and plane-tree, the wild olive and almond,
and many flowering-shrubs of great variety and elegance. The stream is about thirty feet broad,
deeper than the Jordan, and nearly as rapid, rushing downwards over a rocky channel. On the
northern side begins the kingdom of Bashan, celebrated for its oaks, its cattle, and the bodily
strength of its inhabitants. The opposite plate exhibits a view of the Jabbok, and of the bold
Alpine range which fenced the territory of one of the most formidable enemies of Israel; verifying
in its fullest extent the description of Moses, who says, "The border of the children of Ammon
was strong."[139]

The curious reader will find in the Travels of Mr. Buckingham some ingenious reasoning employed
by him to fix the locality of Bozor, Ramoth, Jabesh, and other towns situated in Gilead, and
which were rendered important by the various events recorded in the sacred volume.

About six miles from Djerash towards the north stands the village of Souf, on the brow of a
lofty hill, and flanked by a deep ravine. It retains several marks of having been the site
of some more ancient and considerable town, presenting large blocks of stone with mouldings
and sculpture wrought into the modern buildings. In the neighbourhood are seen the walls of
an edifice apparently Roman, as also the ruins of two small towers which may with equal certainty
be traced to the age of Saracenic domination. Souf can boast of nearly five hundred inhabitants,
all rigid Mohammedans, and remarkable for a surly and suspicious character.

Leaving this rather inhospitable village, the traveller who wishes to visit the remains of
Gamala proceeds in a north-westerly direction, descending into a fine valley, and again rising
on a gentle ascent, the whole being profusely and beautifully wooded with evergreen oaks below,
and pines upon the ridge of the hill above. "Mr. Bankes, who had seen the whole of England,
the greater part of Italy and France, and almost every province of Spain and Portugal, frequently
remarked, that in all his travels he had met with nothing equal to it, excepting only in some
parts of the latter country,--Entre Minho and Douro,--to which alone he could compare it."[140]

Several hamlets and some obscure indications of ancient buildings meet the eye in course of
the journey to Om Keis. Before reaching this town, the road emerges into a hilly district,
bleak, rocky, and ill-cultivated. The view is as monotonous as that from Jerusalem, forming
a striking contrast to the rich, verdant, and beautiful scenery which distinguishes Bashan
and Gilead.

Gamala, for under that name the ruins of the Roman station are most familiarly known, must
have covered a site nearly square; its greatest length, from east to west, being seventeen
hundred short paces, and its breadth about one-fourth less. A considerable portion of it seems
to have stood on the summit of a hill, well fortified all round; the traces of towers and other
works of defence being still visible even on its steepest parts. The portals of the eastern
gate remain, from whence a noble street appears to have run through the whole length of the
city, lined by a handsome colonnade of Ionic and Corinthian pillars. The pavement is formed
of square blocks of black volcanic stone, and is still so perfect, that the ruts of wheel-carriages
are to be seen in it, of different breadths and about an inch in depth, as at the ruins of
Pompeii and Herculaneum.[141]

The first edifice which presents itself on entering the eastern gate is a theatre, the scene
and front of which are entirely destroyed, but the benches are preserved. Still farther on
are appearances of an Ionic temple, the colonnade of the street being continued; and about
half-way along is a range of Corinthian pillars on pedestals, marking the position of some
grand edifice. Not a column, indeed, continues erect, but the plan can be distinctly traced.
This supposed temple must have been a hundred paces in depth from north to south; and its facade,
which fronted the street and came in a line with the grand colonnade already mentioned, cannot
have been less than a hundred and eighty feet in breadth. The chief peculiarity of this structure,
however, consists in its having been built on a range of fine arches, so that its foundations
were higher than the general level of the town; and hence, as the pedestals of the columns
were elevated considerably above the street, it must have presented a very striking object.

There are the remains of numerous other edifices, theatres, and temples, but they are all too
indistinct to enable even a professional eye to pronounce with confidence on their plan and
particular purpose. The prevalent orders of architecture are Ionic and Corinthian, though some
few capitals decidedly Doric are discovered among the ruins. The stone generally used throughout
the city is that of the neighbouring mountains,--a species of gray rock approaching to a carbonate
of lime; but the shafts of some of the pillars are formed of a black substance, supposed to
have a volcanic origin, and most commonly preferred for the internal decorations of funereal
vaults and sarcophagi.[142]

As the ruins here described are not immediately on the position usually assigned to Gamala
on the maps, and as Dr. Seetzen, the only person besides Mr. Buckingham who has published any
account of them, thinks that they are those of Gadara, the latter enters into a lengthened
discussion in support of his own views, calling in the authority of several ancient writers
to establish his position. The reader will find that much of the ambiguity which prevails on
this point arises from the fact of there being in different parts of Canaan several towns of
the same name. For example, there was unquestionably a place called Gadara on the eastern shore
of the Lake of Tiberias; while from the testimony of Josephus, it is equally certain that the
same appellation was given to the capital of Perea. In the New Testament, the country of the
Gadarenes is described as being on the other side of the sea, over-against Galilee, a notice
which removes all doubt from the opinion of those who maintain the existence of a town or village,
named Gadara; situated to the northward of the site generally claimed for Gamala, and nearer
the body of the lake.

Mr. Buckingham tells us, that the account given in the gospel of the habitation of the demoniac,
out of whom the legion of devils was cast, struck him very forcibly while wandering among savage
mountains and surrounded by tombs, still used as houses by individuals and even by, whole families.
A finer occasion for expressing the passions of madness in all their violence, contrasted with
the serene virtue and benevolence of Him who went about continually doing good, could hardly
be chosen for the pencil of an artist; and a faithful delineation of the rugged and wild majesty
of the mountain scenery on the one hand, with the still calm of the lake on the other, would
give an additional charm to the picture.[143]

Amid the interesting ruins of Gamala, situated in a barren district, alike unfavourable for
agriculture, manufactures, and commerce, it is impossible not to be surprised at the indications
of wealth and luxury which must have centred within its walls. The opulence cannot but have
been considerable which erected such splendid temples and colonnades, and supported two large
theatres; erecting, at the same time, such massive tombs and splendid sarcophagi for all classes
of the population. Its desolation may be traced to the rebellious spirit of the inhabitants,
and the sanguinary wars to which it led under successive emperors. Vespasian, whose name is
so closely associated with the history of Palestine for good and for evil, directed against
it on more than one occasion the fury of the Roman legions, and finally levelled its walls,
that they might not again be defended by such desperate insurgents. At a later period, its
remote situation withdrew it from the attention of Europeans; and, in truth, its very existence
had ceased to be remembered, until its ruins were once more visited by travellers in the course
of the present century.

Passing along the eastern border of the hike, and advancing towards its northern extremity,
the traveller easily recognises that desert place where the multitude was fed upon the miraculous
loaves and fishes. Here, too, was the scene of the remarkable punishment inflicted upon the
Gadarenes for their insensibility to Divine instruction, as well, perhaps, as for their unhallowed
pursuit in feeding animals forbidden by the law of Moses. The brink of the water presents many
steep places where such a catastrophe might be easily realized.

At the upper end of the lake are the remains of Capernaum, now called Talhewm, or Tel Hoom,
situated about ten miles from Tiberias, in a north-easterly direction. This village, although
at present nothing more than a station of Bedouins, appears to have been occupied in former
times by a settlement of some importance, as the ruins of stately buildings are found scattered
over a wide space in the neighbourhood. The foundations of a magnificent edifice can still
be traced; but the structure itself is so much dilapidated that it is no longer possible to
determine whether it was a temple or a palace. The northern end is sixty-five paces in length,
and, as the eastern wall seems to have extended to the edge of the water, its length could
not be less than five hundred feet. Within this space are seen large blocks of sculptured stone,
in friezes, cornices, and mouldings.

The appearance of the Sea of Galilee, as seen from this point of view at Capernaum, is very
grand. Its greatest length runs nearly north and south, from fifteen to eighteen miles, while
its breadth averages from five to six. The barren aspect of the mountains on each side, and
the total absence of wood, give, however, a cast of dulness to the picture; and this is increased
even to a feeling of melancholy by the dead calm of its surface, and the silence which reigns
throughout its whole extent, where not a boat or vessel of any kind is to be found. No fisherman
any longer plies his laborious craft on the bosom of the lake, nor seeks to vary his scanty
meal by letting down his net for a draught. Mr. Buckingham observed, from the heights above,
shoals of fish darting through the water, and the shore in some places covered with storks
and diving-birds, which repair hither in search of food; but when, on one occasion, he suggested
that a supper might be procured for his party by exercising a little skill with the rod or
net, he discovered that the ignorant barbarians whom he addressed had not yet taken a lesson
from the fowls of the air.

A circumstance deserving of notice is mentioned by Hasselquist, in regard to the tenants of
this lake. He thought it remarkable that the same kind of fish should be here met with as in
the Nile,--charmuth, silurus, baenni, mulsil, and sparus Galilaeus. This explains the observations
of certain travellers, who speak of the Sea of Tiberias as possessing fish peculiar to itself;
not being acquainted perhaps with the produce of the Egyptian river. Josephus was of the same
opinion; and yet it is worthy of remark, that in describing the fountain of Capernaum his conjectures
tend to confirm the conclusions of the Swedish naturalist:--

"Some consider it," says the Jewish historian, "as a vein of the Nile, because it brings forth
fishes resembling the coracinus of the Alexandrian lake."[144]

That Capernaum was a place of some wealth and consequence in the time of our Saviour may be
inferred from the expostulation addressed to it, when he upbraided the other cities wherein
most of his mighty works were done:--"Wo unto thee, Chorazin! Wo unto thee, Bethsaida! And
thou, Capernaum, which art exalted unto heaven, shalt be brought down to hell." But the history
of all the towns on the lake of Genesareth has been covered with a cloud which it is now impossible
to penetrate; and nothing, accordingly, is more difficult than to determine the situations
occupied, even during the latter period of the Roman ascendency, by some of the principal places
on which the emperors lavished their wealth and taste. Bethsaida was converted by Herod from
an insignificant village into the dignity and grandeur of a city, named Julias, in compliment
to the daughter of Augustus. At the present moment, however, no traces remain to point out
the line of its walls or the foundations of its palaces. Genesareth has in like manner disappeared;
or if there be any relics of the town which once gave its name to the inland sea whose shore
it adorned, they are so indistinct and ambiguous as not to merit the notice of the traveller.
Tarachea is represented by the hamlet of Sumuk, and the ruins of Chorazin are imagined to meet
the eye somewhere on the opposite coast; but, upon the whole, the denunciation uttered against
the unbelieving cities of Galilee has been literally fulfilled, as they are now brought down
to the lowest pitch of obscurity and oblivion.[145]

