The Venetian ambassador, the ineffable, gossip­mongering Paolo Capello, whom we have seen possessed
of the fullest details concerning the Duke of Gandia's death--although he did not come to Rome
until two and a half years after the crime--is again as circumstantial in this instance. You
see in this Capello the forerunner of the modern journalist of the baser sort, the creature
who prowls in quest of scraps of gossip and items of scandal, and who, having found them, does
not concern himself greatly in the matter of their absolute truth so that they provide him
with sensational "copy." It is this same Capello, bear in mind, who gives us the story of Cesare's
murdering in the Pope's very arms that Pedro Caldes who is elsewhere shown to have fallen into
Tiber and been drowned, down to the lurid details of the blood's spurting into the Pope's face.

His famous Relazione to the Senate in September of 1500 is little better than an epitome of
all the scandal current in Rome during his sojourn there as ambassador, and his resurrection
of the old affair of the murder of Gandia goes some way towards showing the spirit by which
he was actuated and his love of sensational matter. It has pleased most writers who have dealt
with the matter of the murder of Alfonso of Aragon to follow Capello's statements; consequently
these must be examined.

He writes from Rome--as recorded by Sanuto--that on July 16 Alfonso of Biselli was assaulted
on the steps of St. Peter's, and received four wounds, "one in the head, one in the arm, one
in the shoulder, and one in the back." That was all that was known to Capello at the time he
wrote that letter, and you will observe already the discrepancy between his statement, penned
upon hearsay, and Burchard's account--which, considering the latter's position at the Vatican,
must always be preferred. According to Burchard the wounds were three, and they were in the
head, right arm, and knee.

On the 19th Capello writes again, and, having stated that Lucrezia--who was really prostrate
with grief at her husband's death--was stricken with fever, adds that "it is not known who
has wounded the Duke of Biselli, but it is said that it was the same who killed and threw into
Tiber the Duke of Gandia. My Lord of Valentinois has issued an edict that no one shall henceforth
bear arms between Sant' Angelo and the Vatican."

On the face of it, that edict of Valentinois' seems to argue vexation at what had happened,
and the desire to provide against its repetition--a provision hardly likely to be made by the
man who had organized the assault, unless he sought, by this edict, to throw dust into the
eyes of the world; and one cannot associate after the event and the fear of criticism with
such a nature as Cesare's or with such a character as is given him by those who are satisfied
that it was he who murdered Biselli.

The rumour that Alfonso had been assailed by the murderer of Gandia is a reasonable enough
rumour, so long as the latter remains unnamed, for it would simply point to some enemy of the
House of Borgia who, having slain one of its members, now attempts to slay another. Whether
Capello actually meant Cesare when he penned those words on July 19, is not as obvious as may
be assumed, for it is to be borne in mind that, at this date, Capello had not yet compiled
the "relation" in which he deals with Gandia's murder.

On July 23 he wrote that the duke was very ill, indeed, from the wound in his head, and on
the 28th that he was in danger owing to the same wound although the fever had abated.

On August 18 he announces Alfonso's death in the following terms: "The Duke of Biselli, Madonna
Lucrezia's husband, died to-day because he was planning the death of the Duke [of Valentinois]
by means of an arbalest-bolt when he walked in the garden; and the duke has had him cut to
pieces in his room by his archers."

This "cutting-to-pieces" form of death is one very dear to the imagination of Capello, and
bears some witness to his sensation-mongering proclivities.

Coming to matters more public, and upon which his evidence is more acceptable, he writes on
the 20th that some servants of the prince's have been arrested, and that, upon being put to
the question, they confessed to the prince's intent to kill the Duke of Valentinois, adding
that a servant of the duke's was implicated. On the 23rd Capello circumstantially confirms
this matter of Alfonso's attempt upon Cesare's life, and states that this has been confessed
by the master of Alfonso's household, "the brother of his mother, Madonna Drusa."

That is the sum of Capello's reports to the Senate, as recorded by Sanuto. The rest, the full,
lurid, richly-coloured, sensational story, is contained in his "relation" of September 20.
He prefaces the narrative by informing the Senate that the Pope is on very bad terms with Naples,
and proceeds to relate the case of Alfonso of Aragon as follows:

"He was wounded at the third hour of night near the palace of the Duke of Valentinois, his
brother­in-law, and the prince ran to the Pope, saying that he had been wounded and that he
knew by whom; and his wife Lucrezia, the Pope's daughter, who was in the room, fell into anguish.
He was ill for thirty-three days, and his wife and sister, who is the wife of the Prince of
Squillace, another son of the Pope's, were with him and cooked for him in a saucepan for fear
of his being poisoned, as the Duke of Valentinois so hated him. And the Pope had him guarded
by sixteen men for fear that the duke should kill him. And when the Pope went to visit him
Valentinois did not accompany him, save on one occasion, when he said that what had not been
done at breakfast might be done at supper.... On August 17 he [Valentinois] entered the room
where the prince was already risen from his bed, and, driving out the wife and sister, called
in his man, named Michieli, and had the prince strangled; and that night he was buried."

Now the following points must arise to shake the student's confidence in this narrative, and
in Capello as an authority upon any of the other matters that he relates:

  (i)  "He was wounded near the palace of the Duke of Valentinois."  This
looks exceedingly like an attempt to pile up evidence against Cesare,
and shows a disposition to resort to the invention of it. Whatever may
not have been known about Alfonso's death, it was known by everybody
that he was wounded on the steps of St. Peter's, and Capello himself,
in his dispatches, had said so at the time. A suspicion that Capello's
whole relation is to serve the purpose of heaping odium upon Cesare at
once arises and receives confirmation when we consider that, as we have
already said, it is in this same relation that the fiction about Pedro
Caldes finds place and that the guilt of the murder of the Duke of
Gandia is definitely fixed upon Cesare.

  (ii)  "He ran to the Pope ['Corse dal Papa'] saying that he had been
wounded, and that he knew by whom." A man with a wound in his head
which endangered his life for over a week would hardly be conscious on
receiving it, nor is it to be supposed that, had he been conscious, his
assailants would have departed. It cannot be doubted that they left him
for dead. He was carried into the palace, and we know, from Burchard,
that the Cardinal of Capua gave him absolution in articulo mortis, which
abundantly shows his condition. It is unthinkable that he should have
been able to "run to the Pope," doubtful that he should have been able
to speak; and, if he did, who was it reported his words to the Venetian
ambassador? Capello wisely refrains from saying.

  (iii)  Lucrezia and Sancia attempt to protect him from poison by
cooking his food in his room. This is quite incredible. Even admitting
the readiness to do so on the part of these princesses, where was the
need, considering the presence of the doctor--admitted by Capello--sent
from Naples and his hunchback assistant?

  (iv)  "The Pope had him guarded by sixteen men for fear the duke should
kill him." Yet when, according to Capello, the duke comes on his
murderous errand, attended only by Michieli (who has been generally
assumed by writers to have been Don Michele da Corella, one of Cesare's
captains), where were these sixteen guards? Capello mentions the
dismissal only of Lucrezia and Sancia.

  (v)  "Valentinois...said that what had not been done at breakfast might
be done at supper." It will be observed that Capello never once
considers it necessary to give his authorities for anything that he
states. It becomes, perhaps, more particularly noteworthy than usual in
the case of this reported speech of Cesare's. He omits to say to whom
Cesare addressed those sinister words, and who reported them to him.
The statement is hardly one to be accepted without that very necessary
mention of authorities, nor can we conceive Capello omitting them had he
possessed them.

It will be seen that it is scarcely necessary to go outside of Capello's own relation for the
purpose of traversing the statements contained in it, so far as the death of Alfonso of Aragon
is concerned.

It is, however, still to be considered that, if Alfonso knew who had attempted his life--as
Capello states that he told the Pope--and knew that he was in hourly danger of death from Valentinois,
it may surely be taken for granted that he would have imparted the information to the Neapolitan
doctor sent him by his uncle, who must have had his confidence.

We know that, after the prince's death, the physician and his hunchback assistant were arrested,
but subsequently released. They returned to Naples, and in Naples, if not elsewhere, the truth
must have been known--definite and authentic facts from the lips of eye-witnesses, not mere
matters of rumour, as was the case in Rome. It is to Neapolitan writings, then, that we must
turn for the truth of this affair; and yet from Naples all that we find is a rumour--the echo
of the Roman rumour--"They say," writes the Venetian ambassador at the Court of King Federigo,
"that he was killed by the Pope's son."

A more mischievous document than Capello's Relazione can seldom have found its way into the
pages of history; it is the prime source of several of the unsubstantiated accusations against
Cesare Borgia upon which subsequent writers have drawn--accepting without criticism--and from
which they have formed their conclusions as to the duke's character. Even in our own times
we find the learned Gregorovius following Capello's relation step by step, and dealing out
this matter of the murder of the Duke of Biselli in his own paraphrases, as so much substantiated,
unquestionable fact. We find in his Lucrezia Borgia the following statement: "The affair was
no longer a mystery. Cesare himself publicly declared that he had killed the duke because his
life had been attempted by the latter."

To say that Cesare "publicly declared that he had killed the duke" is to say a very daring
thing, and is dangerously to improve upon Capello. If it is true that Cesare made this public
declaration how does it happen that no one but Capello heard him? for in all other documents
there is no more than offered us a rumour of how Alfonso died. Surely it is to be supposed
that, had Cesare made any such declaration, the letters from the ambassadors would have rung
with it. Yet they will offer you nothing but statements of what is being rumoured!

Nor does Gregorovius confine himself to that in his sedulous following of Capello's Relation.
He serves up out of Capello the lying story of the murder of Pedro Caldes. "What," he says
of Cesare, to support his view that Cesare murdered Alfonso of Aragon, "could be beyond this
terrible man who had poignarded the Spaniard Pedro Caldes...under the Pope's very cloak, so
that his blood spurted up into the Pope's face?" This in his History of Rome. In his Lucrezia
Borgia he almost improves upon it when he says that "The Venetian ambassador, Paolo Capello,
reports how Cesare Borgia stabbed the chamberlain Perotto, etc., but Burchard makes no mention
of the fact." Of the fact of the stabbing, Burchard certainly makes no mention; but he does
mention that the man was accidentally drowned, as has been considered. It is again--and more
flagrantly than ever--a case of proving Cesare guilty of a crime of which there is no conclusive
evidence by charging him with another, which--in this instance--there is actually evidence
that he did not commit.

But this is by the way.

Burchard's entries in his diary relating to the assault upon Alfonso of Aragon can no more
escape the criticism of the thoughtful than can Capello's relation. His forty horsemen, for
instance, need explaining. Apart from the fact that this employment of forty horsemen would
be an altogether amazing and incredible way to set about the murder of a single man, it is
to be considered that such a troop, drawn up in the square before St. Peter's, must of necessity
have attracted some attention. It was the first hour of the night, remember--according to Burchard--that
is to say, at dusk. Presumably, too, those horsemen were waiting when the prince arrived. How
then, did he--and why was he allowed--to pass them, only to be assailed in ascending the steps?
Burchard, presumably, did not himself see these horsemen; certainly he cannot have seen them
escorting the murderers to the Pertusa Gate. Therefore he must have had the matter reported
to him. Naturally enough, had the horsemen existed, they must have been seen. How, then, does
it happen that Capello did not hear of them? nor the Florentine ambassador, who says that the
murderers were four, nor any one else apparently?

To turn for a moment to the Florentine ambassador's letters upon the subject, we find in this
other Capello--Francesco Capello was his name--accounts which differ alike from Paolo Capello's
and from Burchard' stories.  But he is careful to say that he is simply repeating the rumours
that are abroad, and cites several different versions that are current, adding that the truth
of the affair is not known to anybody. His conclusions, however, particularly those given in
cipher, point to Cesare Borgia as the perpetrator of the deed, and hint at some such motive
of retaliation for an attempt upon his own life as that which is given by the ambassador of Venice.

There is much mystery in the matter, despite Gregorovius's assertion to the contrary--mystery
which mere assertion will not dissipate. This conclusion, however, it is fair to draw: if,
on Capello's evidence, we are to accept it that Cesare Borgia is responsible for the death
of Alfonso of Aragon, then, on the same evidence, we must accept the motive as well as the
deed. We must accept as equally exact his thrice-repeated statement in letters to the Senate
that the prince had planned Cesare's death by posting crossbow-men to shoot him.(1)

  1  It is extremely significant that Capello's Relazione contains no
mention of Alfonso's plot against Cesare's life, a matter which, as we
have seen, had figured so repeatedly in that ambassador's dispatches
from Rome at the time of the event. This omission is yet another proof
of the malicious spirit by which the "relation" was inspired. The
suppression of anything that might justify a deed attributed to Cesare
reveals how much defamation and detraction were the aims of this
Venetian.

Either we must accept all, or we must reject all, that Capello tells us. If we reject all,
then we are left utterly without information as to how Alfonso of Aragon died. If we accept
all, then we find that it was as a measure of retaliation that Cesare compassed the death of
his brother-in-law, which made it not a murder, but a private execution--justifiable under
the circumstances of the provocation received and as the adjustment of these affairs was understood
in the Cinquecento.

CHAPTER VI. RIMINI AND PESARO

In the autumn of 1500, fretting to take the field again, Cesare was occupied in raising and
equipping an army--an occupation which received an added stimulus when, towards the end of
August, Louis de Villeneuve, the French ambassador, arrived in Rome with the articles of agreement
setting forth the terms upon which Louis XII was prepared further to assist Cesare in the resumption
of his campaign. In these it was stipulated that, in return for such assistance, Cesare should
engage himself, on his side, to aid the King of France in the conquest of Naples when the time
for that expedition should be ripe. Further, Loius XII was induced to make representations
to Venice to the end that the Republic should remove her protection from the Manfredi of Faenza
and the Malatesta of Rimini.

Venice being at the time in trouble with the Turk, and more anxious than ever to conciliate
France and the Pope, was compelled to swallow her reluctance and submit with the best grace
she could assume. Accordingly she dispatched her ambassadors to Rome to convey her obedience
to the Pope's Holiness, and formally to communicate the news that she withdrew her protection
from the proscribed fiefs.

Later in the year--in the month of October--the Senate was to confer upon Cesare Borgia the
highest honour in her gift, the honour of which the Venetians were jealous above all else--the
honour of Venetian citizenship, inscribing his name in the Golden Book, bestowing upon him
a palace in Venice and conferring the other marks of distinction usual to the occasion. One
is tempted to ask, Was it in consequence of Paolo Capello's lurid Relation that the proud Republic
considered him qualified for such an honour?

To return, however, to the matter of the Republic's removal of her shield from Rimini and Faenza,
Alexander received the news of this with open joy and celebrated it with festivities in the
Vatican, whilst from being angry with Venice and from declaring that the Republic need never
again look to him for favour, he now veered round completely and assured the Venetian envoys,
in a burst of gratitude, that he esteemed no Power in the world so highly. Cesare joined in
his father's expressions of gratitude and appreciation, and promised that Alexander should
be succeeded in St. Peter's Chair by such a Pope as should be pleasing to Venice, and that,
if the cardinals but remained united, the Pontificate should go to none but a Venetian.

Thus did Cesare, sincerely or otherwise, attempt to lessen the Republic's chagrin to see him
ride lance-on-thigh as conqueror into the dominions which she so long had coveted.

France once more placed Yves d'Allègre at Cesare's disposal, and with him went six hundred
lances and six hundred Swiss foot. These swelled the forces which already Cesare had assembled
into an army some ten thousand strong. The artillery was under the command of Vitellozzo Vitelli,
whilst Bartolomeo da Capranica was appointed camp-master. Cesare's banner was joined by a condotta
under Paolo Orsini--besides whom there were several Roman gentlemen in the duke's following,
including most of those who had formed his guard of honour on the occasion of his visit to
France, and who had since then continued to follow his fortunes. Achille Tiberti came to Rome
with a condotta which he had levied in the Romagna of young men who had been moved by Cesare's
spreading fame to place their swords at his disposal. A member of the exiled Malvezzi family
of Bologna headed a little troop of fellow-exiles which came to take service with the duke,
whilst at Perugia a strong body of foot awaited him under Gianpaolo Baglioni.

In addition to these condotte, numerous were the adventurers who came to offer Cesare their
swords; indeed he must have possessed much of that personal magnetism which is the prime equipment
of every born leader, for he stirred men to the point of wild enthusiasm in those days, and
inspired other than warriors to bear arms for him. We see men of letters, such as Justolo,
Calmeta, Sperulo, and others throwing down their quills to snatch up swords and follow him.
Painters, and sculptors, too, are to be seen abandoning the ideals of art to pursue the ugly
realities of war in this young condottiero's train. Among these artists, bulks the great Pietro
Torrigiani. The astounding pen of his brother-sculptor, Benvenuto Cellini, has left us a sharp
portrait of this man, in which he speaks of his personal beauty and tells us that he had more
the air of a great soldier than a sculptor (which must have been, we fancy, Cellini's own case).
Torrigiani lives in history chiefly for two pieces of work widely dissimilar in character--the
erection of the tomb of Henry VII of England, and the breaking of the nose of Michelangelo
Buonarroti in the course of a quarrel which he had with him in Florence when they were fellow-students
under Masaccio. Of nothing that he ever did in life was he so proud--as we may gather from
Cellini--as of having disfigured Michelangelo, and in that sentiment the naïve spirit of his
age again peeps forth.

We shall also see Leonardo da Vinci joining the duke's army as engineer--but that not until
some months later.

Meanwhile his forces grew daily in Rome, and his time was consumed in organizing, equipping,
and drilling these, to bring about that perfect unity for which his army was to be conspicuous
in spite of the variety of French, Italian, Spanish, and Swiss elements of which it was composed.
So effectively were his troops armed and so excellent was the discipline prevailing among them,
that their like had probably never before been seen in the peninsula, and they were to excite--as
much else of Cesare's work--the wonder and admiration of that great critic Macchiavelli.

So much, however, was not to be achieved without money, and still more would be needed for
the campaign ahead. For this the Church provided. Never had the coffers of the Holy See been
fuller than at this moment. Additional funds accrued from what is almost universally spoken
of as "the sale of twelve cardinals' hats."

In that year--in September--twelve new cardinals were appointed, and upon each of those was
levied, as a tax, a tithe of the first year's revenues of the benefices upon which they entered.
The only justifiable exception that can be taken to this lies in the number of cardinals elected
at one time, which lends colour to the assumption that the sole aim of that election was to
raise additional funds for Cesare's campaign. Probably it was also Alexander's aim further
to strengthen his power with the Sacred College, so that he could depend upon a majority to
ensure his will in all matters. But we are at the moment concerned with the matter of the levied
tax.

It has been dubbed "an atrocious act of simony;" but the reasoning that so construes it is
none so clear. The cardinals' hats carried with them vast benefices. These benefices were the
property of the Church; they were in the gift and bestowal of the Pope, and in the bestowing
of them the Pope levied a proportionate tax. Setting aside the argument that this tax was not
an invention of Alexander's, does such a proceeding really amount to a "sale" of benefices?
A sale presupposes bargaining, a making of terms between two parties, an adjusting of a price
to be paid. There is evidence of no such marketing of these benefices; indeed one cardinal,
vowed to poverty, received his hat without the imposition of a tax, another was Cesare's brother-in-law,
Amanieu d'Albret, who had been promised the hat a year ago. It is further to be borne in mind
that, four months earlier, the Pope had levied a similar decima, or tax, upon the entire College
of Cardinals and every official in the service of the Holy See, for the purposes of the expedition
against the Muslim, who was in arms against Christianity. Naturally that tax was not popular
with luxurious, self-seeking, cinquecento prelates, who in the main cared entirely for their
own prosperity and not at all for that of Christianity, and you may realize how, by levying
it, Alexander laid himself open to harsh criticism.

The only impugnable matter in the deed lies, as has been said, in the number of cardinals so
created at a batch. But the ends to be served may be held to justify, if not altogether, at
least in some measure, the means adopted. The Romagna war for which the funds were needed was
primarily for the advancement of the Church, to expunge those faithless vicars who, appointed
by the Holy See and holding their fiefs in trust for her, refused payment of just tribute and
otherwise so acted as to alienate from the Church the States which she claimed for her own.
Their restoration to the Church--however much it might be a means of founding a Borgia dynasty
in the Romagna--made for the greater power and glory of the Holy See. Let us remember this,
and that such was the end which that tax, levied upon those newly elected cardinals, went to
serve. The aggrandizement of the House of Borgia was certainly one of the results to be expected
from the Romagna campaign, but we are not justified in accounting it the sole aim and end of
that campaign.

Alexander had this advantage over either Sixtus IV or Innocent VIII--not to go beyond those
Popes whom he had served as Vice-Chancellor, for instances of flagrant nepotism--that he at
least served two purposes at once, and that, in aggrandizing his own family, he strengthened
the temporal power of the Church, whereas those others had done nothing but undermine it that
they might enrich their progeny.

And whilst on this subject of the "sale" of cardinals' hats, it may not be amiss to say a word
concerning the "sale" of indulgences with which Alexander has been so freely charged. Here
again there has been too loud an outcry against Alexander--an outcry whose indignant stridency
leads one to suppose that the sale of indulgences was a simony invented by him, or else practised
by him to an extent shamefully unprecedented. Such is very far from being the case. The arch-type
of indulgence-seller--as of all other simoniacal practices--is Innocent VIII. In his reign
we have seen the murderer commonly given to choose between the hangman and the purchase of
a pardon, and we have seen the moneys so obtained providing his bastard, the Cardinal Francesco
Cibo, with the means for the luxuriously licentious life whose gross disorders prematurely
killed him.

