The present circumstances of the Republic, I deeply regret to say, do not seem to promise even
the foundations of such a peace. We have waited many months, months full of peril and anxiety,
for the conditions there to improve, and they have not improved. They have grown worse, rather.
The territory in some sort controlled by the provisional authorities at Mexico City has grown
smaller, not larger. The prospect of the pacification of the country, even by arms, has seemed
to grow more and more remote; and its pacification by the authorities at the capital is evidently
impossible by any other means than force. Difficulties more and more entangle those who claim
to constitute the legitimate government of the Republic. They have not made good their claim
in fact. Their successes in the field have proved only temporary. War and disorder, devastation
and confusion, seem to threaten to become the settled fortune of the distracted country. As
friends we could wait no longer for a solution which every week seemed further away. It was
our duty at least to volunteer our good offices--to offer to assist, if we might, in effecting
some arrangement which would bring relief and peace and set up a universally acknowledged political
authority there.

Accordingly, I took the liberty of sending the Hon. John Lind, formerly governor of Minnesota,
as my personal spokesman and representative, to the City of Mexico, with the following instructions:

     Press very earnestly upon the attention of those who are now
     exercising authority or wielding influence in Mexico the following
     considerations and advice:

     The Government of the United States does not feel at liberty any
     longer to stand inactively by while it becomes daily more and more
     evident that no real progress is being made towards the
     establishment of a government at the City of Mexico which the
     country will obey and respect.

     The Government of the United States does not stand in the same case
     with the other great Governments of the world in respect of what is
     happening or what is likely to happen in Mexico. We offer our good
     offices, not only because of our genuine desire to play the part of
     a friend, but also because we are expected by the powers of the
     world to act as Mexico's nearest friend.

     We wish to act in these circumstances in the spirit of the most
     earnest and disinterested friendship. It is our purpose in whatever
     we do or propose in this perplexing and distressing situation not
     only to pay the most scrupulous regard to the sovereignty and
     independence of Mexico--that we take as a matter of course to which
     we are bound by every obligation of right and honor--but also to
     give every possible evidence that we act in the interest of Mexico
     alone, and not in the interest of any person or body of persons who
     may have personal or property claims in Mexico which they may feel
     that they have the right to press. We are seeking to counsel Mexico
     for her own good and in the interest of her own peace, and not for
     any other purpose whatever. The Government of the United States
     would deem itself discredited if it had any selfish or ulterior
     purpose in transactions where the peace, happiness, and prosperity
     of a whole people are involved. It is acting as its friendship for
     Mexico, not as any selfish interest, dictates.

     The present situation in Mexico is incompatible with the
     fulfillment of international obligations on the part of Mexico,
     with the civilized development of Mexico herself, and with the
     maintenance of tolerable political and economic conditions in
     Central America. It is upon no common occasion, therefore, that the
     United States offers her counsel and assistance. All America cries
     out for a settlement.

     A satisfactory settlement seems to us to be conditioned on--

     (a) An immediate cessation of fighting throughout Mexico, a
     definite armistice solemnly entered into and scrupulously observed;

     (b) Security given for an early and free election in which all
     will agree to take part;

     (c) The consent of Gen. Huerta to bind himself not to be a
     candidate for election as President of the Republic at this
     election; and

     (d) The agreement of all parties to abide by the results of the
     election and coöperate in the most loyal way in organizing and
     supporting the new administration.

     The Government of the United States will be glad to play any part
     in this settlement or in its carrying out which it can play
     honorably and consistently with international right. It pledges
     itself to recognize and in every way possible and proper to assist
     the administration chosen and set up in Mexico in the way and on
     the conditions suggested.

     Taking all the existing conditions into consideration, the
     Government of the United States can conceive of no reasons
     sufficient to justify those who are now attempting to shape the
     policy or exercise the authority of Mexico in declining the offices
     of friendship thus offered. Can Mexico give the civilized world a
     satisfactory reason for rejecting our good offices? If Mexico can
     suggest any better way in which to show our friendship, serve the
     people of Mexico, and meet our international obligations, we are
     more than willing to consider the suggestion.

Mr. Lind executed his delicate and difficult mission with singular tact, firmness, and good
judgment, and made clear to the authorities at the City of Mexico not only the purpose of his
visit but also the spirit in which it had been undertaken. But the proposals he submitted were
rejected, in a note the full text of which I take the liberty of laying before you.

I am led to believe that they were rejected partly because the authorities at Mexico City had
been grossly misinformed and misled upon two points. They did not realize the spirit of the
American people in this matter, their earnest friendliness and yet sober determination that
some just solution be found for the Mexican difficulties; and they did not believe that the
present administration spoke, through Mr. Lind, for the people of the United States. The effect
of this unfortunate misunderstanding on their part is to leave them singularly isolated and
without friends who can effectually aid them. So long as the misunderstanding continues we
can only await the time of their awakening to a realization of the actual facts. We cannot
thrust our good offices upon them. The situation must be given a little more time to work itself
out in the new circumstances; and I believe that only a little while will be necessary. For
the circumstances are new. The rejection of our friendship makes them new and will inevitably
bring its own alterations in the whole aspect of affairs. The actual situation of the authorities
at Mexico City will presently be revealed.

Meanwhile, what is it our duty to do? Clearly, everything that we do must be rooted in patience
and done with calm and disinterested deliberation. Impatience on our part would be childish,
and would be fraught with every risk of wrong and folly. We can afford to exercise the self-restraint
of a really great nation which realizes its own strength and scorns to misuse it. It was our
duty to offer our active assistance. It is now our duty to show what true neutrality will do
to enable the people of Mexico to set their affairs in order again and wait for a further opportunity
to offer our friendly counsels. The door is not closed against the resumption, either upon
the initiative of Mexico or upon our own, of the effort to bring order out of the confusion
by friendly coöperative action, should fortunate occasion offer.

While we wait the contest of the rival forces will undoubtedly for a little while be sharper
than ever, just because it will be plain that an end must be made of the existing situation,
and that very promptly; and with the increased activity of the contending factions will come,
it is to be feared, increased danger to the non-combatants in Mexico as well as to those actually
in the field of battle. The position of outsiders is always particularly trying and full of
hazard where there is civil strife and a whole country is upset. We should earnestly urge all
Americans to leave Mexico at once, and should assist them to get away in every way possible--not
because we would mean to slacken in the least our efforts to safeguard their lives and their
interests, but because it is imperative that they should take no unnecessary risks when it
is physically possible for them to leave the country. We should let every one who assumes to
exercise authority in any part of Mexico know in the most unequivocal way that we shall vigilantly
watch the fortunes of those Americans who cannot get away, and shall hold those responsible
for their sufferings and losses to a definite reckoning. That can be and will be made plain
beyond the possibility of a misunderstanding.

For the rest, I deem it my duty to exercise the authority conferred upon me by the law of March
14, 1912, to see to it that neither side to the struggle now going on in Mexico receive any
assistance from this side the border. I shall follow the best practice of nations in the matter
of neutrality by forbidding the exportation of arms or munitions of war of any kind from the
United States to any part of the Republic of Mexico--a policy suggested by several interesting
precedents and certainly dictated by many manifest considerations of practical expediency.
We cannot in the circumstances be the partisans of either party to the contest that now distracts
Mexico, or constitute ourselves the virtual umpire between them.

I am happy to say that several of the great Governments of the world have given this Government
their generous moral support in urging upon the provisional authorities at the City of Mexico
the acceptance of our proffered good offices in the spirit in which they were made. We have
not acted in this matter under the ordinary principles of international obligation. All the
world expects us in such circumstances to act as Mexico's nearest friend and intimate adviser.
This is our immemorial relation towards her. There is nowhere any serious question that we
have the moral right in the case or that we are acting in the interest of a fair settlement
and of good government, not for the promotion of some selfish interest of our own. If further
motive were necessary than our own good will towards a sister Republic and our own deep concern
to see peace and order prevail in Central America, this consent of mankind to what we are attempting,
this attitude of the great nations of the world towards what we may attempt in dealing with
this distressed people at our doors, should make us feel the more solemnly bound to go to the
utmost length of patience and forbearance in this painful and anxious business. The steady
pressure of moral force will before many days break the barriers of pride and prejudice down,
and we shall triumph as Mexico's friends sooner than we could triumph as her enemies--and how
much more handsomely, with how much higher and finer satisfactions of conscience and of honor!

[D] General Victoriano Huerta had, on Feb. 18, deposed President Madero, and had been, on the
20th, elected President by the Mexican Congress. Three days later Madero was assassinated while
in the custody of the new government. An army calling themselves Constitutionalists under General
Villa, defeated the Mexican Federal forces in May. On August 20, Huerta declined the proposal
of the United States government that he should cease to be a candidate for the Presidency.

UNDERSTANDING AMERICA

[Delivered at Philadelphia, Pa., on the occasion of the rededication of Congress Hall, Oct.
25, 1913. The United States Congress met in this hall till 1800. Here Washington was inaugurated
the second time, and here he made his farewell address to the American people. Here John Adams
took the oath of office when he succeeded Washington. The hall, after being long disused, was
now restored and reopened. Before Mr. Wilson spoke, Mr. Frank Miles Day, representing the committee
of architects, had referred to the "delightful silence, order, gravity, and personal dignity
of manner" observed by the Senators of the first Congress, and had said, "They all appeared
every morning full powdered, and dressed, as age or fancy might suggest, in the richest material."]

YOUR HONOR, MR. CHAIRMAN, LADIES, AND GENTLEMEN:

No American could stand in this place to-day and think of the circumstances which we are come
together to celebrate without being most profoundly stirred. There has come over me since I
sat down here a sense of deep solemnity, because it has seemed to me that I saw ghosts crowding--a
great assemblage of spirits, no longer visible, but whose influence we still feel as we feel
the molding power of history itself. The men who sat in this hall, to whom we now look back
with a touch of deep sentiment, were men of flesh and blood, face to face with extremely difficult
problems. The population of the United States then was hardly three times the present population
of the city of Philadelphia, and yet that was a Nation as this is a Nation, and the men who
spoke for it were setting their hands to a work which was to last, not only that their people
might be happy, but that an example might be lifted up for the instruction of the rest of the
world.

I like to read the quaint old accounts such as Mr. Day has read to us this afternoon. Strangers
came then to America to see what the young people that had sprung up here were like, and they
found men in counsel who knew how to construct governments. They found men deliberating here
who had none of the appearance of novices, none of the hesitation of men who did not know whether
the work they were doing was going to last or not; men who addressed themselves to a problem
of construction as familiarly as we attempt to carry out the traditions of a Government established
these 137 years.

I feel to-day the compulsion of these men, the compulsion of examples which were set up in
this place. And of what do their examples remind us? They remind us not merely of public service
but of public service shot through with principle and honor. They were not histrionic men.
They did not say--

     Look upon us as upon those who shall hereafter be illustrious.

They said:

     Look upon us who are doing the first free work of constitutional
     liberty in the world, and who must do it in soberness and truth, or
     it will not last.

Politics, ladies and gentlemen, is made up in just about equal parts of comprehension and sympathy.
No man ought to go into politics who does not comprehend the task that he is going to attack.
He may comprehend it so completely that it daunts him, that he doubts whether his own spirit
is stout enough and his own mind able enough to attempt its great undertakings, but unless
he comprehend it he ought not to enter it. After he has comprehended it, there should come
into his mind those profound impulses of sympathy which connect him with the rest of mankind,
for politics is a business of interpretation, and no men are fit for it who do not see and
seek more than their own advantage and interest.

We have stumbled upon many unhappy circumstances in the hundred years that have gone by since
the event that we are celebrating. Almost all of them have come from self-centered men, men
who saw in their own interest the interest of the country, and who did not have vision enough
to read it in wider terms, in the universal terms of equity and justice and the rights of mankind.
I hear a great many people at Fourth of July celebrations laud the Declaration of Independence
who in between Julys shiver at the plain language of our bills of rights. The Declaration of
Independence was, indeed, the first audible breath of liberty, but the substance of liberty
is written in such documents as the declaration of rights attached, for example, to the first
constitution of Virginia, which was a model for the similar documents read elsewhere into our
great fundamental charters. That document speaks in very plain terms. The men of that generation
did not hesitate to say that every people has a right to choose its own forms of government--not
once, but as often as it pleases--and to accommodate those forms of government to its existing
interests and circumstances. Not only to establish but to alter is the fundamental principle
of self-government.

We are just as much under compulsion to study the particular circumstances of our own day as
the gentlemen were who sat in this hall and set us precedents, not of what to do but of how
to do it. Liberty inheres in the circumstances of the day. Human happiness consists in the
life which human beings are leading at the time that they live. I can feed my memory as happily
upon the circumstances of the revolutionary and constitutional period as you can, but I cannot
feed all my purposes with them in Washington now. Every day problems arise which wear some
new phase and aspect, and I must fall back, if I would serve my conscience, upon those things
which are fundamental rather than upon those things which are superficial, and ask myself this
question, How are you going to assist in some small part to give the American people and, by
example, the peoples of the world more liberty, more happiness, more substantial prosperity;
and how are you going to make that prosperity a common heritage instead of a selfish possession?
I came here to-day partly in order to feed my own spirit. I did not come in compliment. When
I was asked to come I knew immediately upon the utterance of the invitation that I had to come,
that to be absent would be as if I refused to drink once more at the original fountains of
inspiration for our own Government.

The men of the day which we now celebrate had a very great advantage over us, ladies and gentlemen,
in this one particular: Life was simple in America then. All men shared the same circumstances
in almost equal degree. We think of Washington, for example, as an aristocrat, as a man separated
by training, separated by family and neighborhood tradition, from the ordinary people of the
rank and file of the country. Have you forgotten the personal history of George Washington?
Do you not know that he struggled as poor boys now struggle for a meager and imperfect education;
that he worked at his surveyor's tasks in the lonely forests; that he knew all the roughness,
all the hardships, all the adventure, all the variety of the common life of that day; and that
if he stood a little stiffly in this place, if he looked a little aloof, it was because life
had dealt hardly with him? All his sinews had been stiffened by the rough work of making America.
He was a man of the people, whose touch had been with them since the day he saw the light first
in the old Dominion of Virginia. And the men who came after him, men, some of whom had drunk
deep at the sources of philosophy and of study, were, nevertheless, also men who on this side
of the water knew no complicated life but the simple life of primitive neighborhoods. Our task
is very much more difficult. That sympathy which alone interprets public duty is more difficult
for a public man to acquire now than it was then, because we live in the midst of circumstances
and conditions infinitely complex.

No man can boast that he understands America. No man can boast that he has lived the life of
America, as almost every man who sat in this hall in those days could boast. No man can pretend
that except by common counsel he can gather into his consciousness what the varied life of
this people is. The duty that we have to keep open eyes and open hearts and accessible understandings
is a very much more difficult duty to perform than it was in their day. Yet how much more important
that it should be performed, for fear we make infinite and irreparable blunders. The city of
Washington is in some respects self-contained, and it is easy there to forget what the rest
of the United States is thinking about. I count it a fortunate circumstance that almost all
the windows of the White House and its offices open upon unoccupied spaces that stretch to
the banks of the Potomac and then out into Virginia and on to the heavens themselves, and that
as I sit there I can constantly forget Washington and remember the United States. Not that
I would intimate that all of the United States lies south of Washington, but there is a serious
thing back of my thought. If you think too much about being reëlected, it is very difficult
to be worth reëlecting. You are so apt to forget that the comparatively small number of persons,
numerous as they seem to be when they swarm, who come to Washington to ask for things, do not
constitute an important proportion of the population of the country, that it is constantly
necessary to come away from Washington and renew one's contact with the people who do not swarm
there, who do not ask for anything, but who do trust you without their personal counsel to
do your duty. Unless a man gets these contacts he grows weaker and weaker. He needs them as
Hercules needed the touch of mother earth. If you lift him up too high or he lifts himself
too high, he loses the contact and therefore loses the inspiration.

I love to think of those plain men, however far from plain their dress sometimes was, who assembled
in this hall. One is startled to think of the variety of costume and color which would now
occur if we were let loose upon the fashions of that age. Men's lack of taste is largely concealed
now by the limitations of fashion. Yet these men, who sometimes dressed like the peacock, were,
nevertheless, of the ordinary flight of their time. They were birds of a feather; they were
birds come from a very simple breeding; they were much in the open heaven. They were beginning,
when there was so little to distract their attention, to show that they could live upon fundamental
principles of government. We talk those principles, but we have not time to absorb them. We
have not time to let them into our blood, and thence have them translated into the plain mandates
of action.

The very smallness of this room, the very simplicity of it all, all the suggestions which come
from its restoration, are reassuring things--things which it becomes a man to realize. Therefore
my theme here to-day, my only thought, is a very simple one. Do not let us go back to the annals
of those sessions of Congress to find out what to do, because we live in another age and the
circumstances are absolutely different; but let us be men of that kind; let us feel at every
turn the compulsions of principle and of honor which thy felt; let us free our vision from
temporary circumstances and look abroad at the horizon and take into our lungs the great air
of freedom which has blown through this country and stolen across the seas and blessed people
everywhere; and, looking east and west and north and south, let us remind ourselves that we
are the custodians, in some degree, of the principles which have made men free and governments
just.

ADDRESS BEFORE THE SOUTHERN COMMERCIAL CONGRESS

[Delivered at Mobile, Alabama, October 27, 1913.]

YOUR EXCELLENCY, MR. CHAIRMAN:

It is with unaffected pleasure that I find myself here to-day. I once before had the pleasure,
in another southern city, of addressing the Southern Commercial Congress. I then spoke of what
the future seemed to hold in store for this region, which so many of us love and toward the
future of which we all look forward with so much confidence and hope. But another theme directed
me here this time. I do not need to speak of the South. She has, perhaps, acquired the gift
of speaking for herself. I come because I want to speak of our present and prospective relations
with our neighbors to the south. I deemed it a public duty, as well as a personal pleasure,
to be here to express for myself and for the Government I represent the welcome we all feel
to those who represent the Latin-American States.

The future, ladies and gentlemen, is going to be very different for this hemisphere from the
past. These States lying to the south of us, which have always been our neighbors, will now
be drawn closer to us by innumerable ties, and, I hope, chief of all by the tie of a common
understanding of each other. Interest does not tie nations together; it sometimes separates
them. But sympathy and understanding does unite them, and I believe that by the new route that
is just about to be opened, while we physically cut two continents asunder, we spiritually
unite them. It is a spiritual union which we seek.

I wonder if you realize, I wonder if your imaginations have been filled with the significance
of the tides of commerce. Your Governor alluded in very fit and striking terms to the voyage
of Columbus, but Columbus took his voyage under compulsion of circumstances. Constantinople
had been captured by the Turks, and all the routes of trade with the East had been suddenly
closed. If there was not a way across the Atlantic to open those routes again, they were closed
forever; and Columbus set out not to discover America, for he did not know that it existed,
but to discover the eastern shores of Asia. He set sail for Cathay and stumbled upon America.
With that change in the outlook of the world, what happened? England, that had been at the
back of Europe with an unknown sea behind her, found that all things had turned as if upon
a pivot and she was at the front of Europe; and since then all the tides of energy and enterprise
that have issued out of Europe have seemed to be turned westward across the Atlantic. But you
will notice that they have turned westward chiefly north of the Equator, and that it is the
northern half of the globe that has seemed to be filled with the media of intercourse and of
sympathy and of common understanding.

Do you not see now what is about to happen? These great tides which have been running along
parallels of latitude will now swing southward athwart parallels of latitude, and that opening
gate at the Isthmus of Panama will open the world to a commerce that she has not known before,
a commerce of intelligence, of thought, and sympathy between North and South. The Latin-American
States which, to their disadvantage, have been off the main lines will now be on the main lines.
I feel that these gentlemen honoring us with their presence to-day will presently find that
some part, at any rate, of the center of gravity of the world has shifted. Do you realize that
New York, for example, will be nearer the western coast of South America than she is now to
the eastern coast of South America? Do you realize that a line drawn northward parallel with
the greater part of the western coast of South America will run only about one hundred and
fifty miles west of New York? The great bulk of South America, if you will look at your globes
(not at your Mercator's projection), lies eastward of the continent of North America. You will
realize that when you realize that the canal will run southeast, not southwest, and that when
you get into the Pacific you will be farther east then you were when you left the Gulf of Mexico.
These things are significant, therefore, of this, that we are closing one chapter in the history
of the world and are opening another of great, unimaginable significance.

There is one peculiarity about the history of the Latin-American States which I am sure they
are keenly aware of. You hear of "concessions" to foreign capitalists in Latin America. You
do not hear of concessions to foreign capitalists in the United States. They are not granted
concessions. They are invited to make investments. The work is ours, though they are welcome
to invest in it. We do not ask them to supply the capital and do the work. It is an invitation,
not a privilege; and States that are obliged, because their territory does not lie within the
main field of modern enterprise and action, to grant concessions are in this condition, that
foreign interests are apt to dominate their domestic affairs, a condition of affairs always
dangerous and apt to become intolerable. What these States are going to see, therefore, is
an emancipation from the subordination, which has been inevitable, to foreign enterprise and
an assertion of the splendid character which, in spite of these difficulties, they have again
and again been able to demonstrate. The dignity, the courage, the self-possession, the self-respect
of the Latin-American States, their achievements in the face of all these adverse circumstances,
deserve nothing but the admiration and applause of the world. They have had harder bargains
driven with them in the matter of loans than any other peoples in the world. Interest has been
exacted of them that was not exacted of anybody else, because the risk was said to be greater;
and then securities were taken that destroyed the risk--an admirable arrangement for those
who were forcing the terms! I rejoice in nothing so much as in the prospect that they will
now be emancipated from these conditions; and we ought to be the first to take part in assisting
in that emancipation. I think some of these gentlemen have already had occasion to bear witness
that the Department of State in recent months has tried to serve them in that wise. In the
future they will draw closer and closer to us because of circumstances of which I wish to speak
with moderation and, I hope, without indiscretion.

We must prove ourselves their friends and champions upon terms of equality and honor. You cannot
be friends upon any other terms than upon the terms of equality. You cannot be friends at all
except upon the terms of honor. We must show ourselves friends by comprehending their interest
whether it squares with our own interest or not. It is a very perilous thing to determine the
foreign policy of a nation in the terms of material interest. It not only is unfair to those
with whom you are dealing, but it is degrading as regards your own actions.

