Under the great Cardinal de Richelieu, the Crown had taken more authority then ever, and raised
taxes at its will.  The Parliament was only permitted to register the edicts of the Crown,
but not to refuse them, as it claimed to do.  As nobody who was noble paid taxes the noblesse
did not care, and there had hitherto seemed to be no redress.  But at this moment, when the
war taxes were weighing more heavily than ever, and the demand of a house-tax had irritated
the people of Paris, there were a very large number of the nobility much incensed against Cardinal
Mazarin, and very jealous of his favour with the Queen-Regent.  What they would endure from
a French nobleman like Richelieu they abhorred from a low-born foreigner such Mazarin was;
and it seemed to the Parliament that this was the moment to make a stand, since they had the
populace on their side, and likewise so many of the Court party.  There was the Archbishop
of Corinth, the Coadjutor to the Archbishop of Paris, who had been mortally offended by the
way in which the Queen had treated him on the day of the barricades; there was the handsome,
fair-haired Duke of Beaufort, a grandson of Henri IV., who used to be called 'Le roi des halles,'
he was such a favourite with the market-women; there was the clever brilliant Prince de Marsillac
(you know will his maxims, written after he had become Duke of Rochefoucauld).  He could do
anything with Madame de Longueville; and she was thought able to do anything with her brothers,
the Prince of Code and Conti.  Every one had been watching to see what side the Prince would
take, but at this time he seemed inclined to the Crown, though it was not likely he could go
on long without quarrelling with Mazarin.  All this made the Frondeurs hope much from beginning
to resist; but I remember Sir Andrew said that he did not believe that these nobles and princes
cared in the least for relieving the people, but merely for overthrowing the Cardinal, and
he could not find out that the Parliament had any definite scheme, or knew what they wished.
In fact, Sir Andrew dreaded any movement.  He had been so much disappointed, and so broken-hearted
at the loss of friends and the ruin of the country, that his only thought was to leave all
alone.  And above all he so thought, when every letter from England told how the enemy were
proceeding to hunt down his Sacred Majesty.

What a change it was when my son and I had to go into waiting at the Louvre!  Before the Queen-Regent
there was nothing but vituperation of the Parliament, but the Duke of Orleans hates the Cardinal
quite as much as the Parisians did; and his daughter, Mademoiselle, wanted him to lead the
Frondeuse, and chatted to me of her plan of leading the party, together with the Prince of
Conde, whom she eagerly desired to marry if his poor wife could be divorced.  I used to shake
my head at her and say I knew she was too good at the bottom to desire anything so shocking,
and she took it in good part.  She was much better than she chose to seem.

Thus the eve of the Epiphany came, and there was a feast for the King and his little companions.
Gaspard had the Bean, and the Queen crowned him and made him King of the night.  King Louis
himself had to bend the knee, which he did with the best grace in the world. (You must all
have seen the little enamelled Bean-flower badge that your father received on that night.)

Every one went to see the children at their feast, where the little English lady Henrietta
sat between her two royal cousins, looking like a rosebud, all ignorant, poor child, of the
said disaster which was falling on her.  Her mother was looking on, smiling in the midst of
her cares to see the children's glee.

The Queen-Regent was in the highest spirits.  We had never seen her dignity so relax into merriment
as when she set the little ones to dance together after the supper was over; but she sent them
to bed early, much earlier than her sons desired.  We heard his real Majesty saying to Gaspard,
'M. le Marquis, since you are King of the Bean, command that we should be like all other revelers,
and sit up till morning.'

My boy looked up to me, and read in my face that he must not presume.

'Ah! sire,' said he, 'though we are called kings, these ladies are the higher powers.'

It was applauded as a grand witticism, although Gaspard meant it in all simplicity, and had
no notion of the meaning attributed to it. Nay, he thought all the praise was approval of him
as a good boy inducing the King to be obedient.

After the children had gone to bed, including Mademoiselle's three little half-sisters, dull
little girls of whom she spoke contemptuously but always treated very kindly, she led the way
to the apartment where her father was sitting by a great fire, fretful with gout, and wanting
the amusement which she tried to give him by describing  the children's diversions.  Some one
came and whispered something to her, and in the tone of  one who has an excellent joke to rehearse
she went up to the Duke of Orleans, exclaiming--

'Monsieur!  Here is news!  We are all to start for St. Germain this very night!'

Monsieur made no answer, and immediately after bade her good night. She then went to her stepmother's
room, and I remained with some of the other ladies, who were pretty well convinced that it
was a true report, and that the Queen had been only waiting the arrival of the troops from
the Low Countries to quit Paris and crush the resistance of the Parliament.  What was to become
of us we did not know, whether we were to stay or go; but as we heard no more, and Mademoiselle
came out and went to bed, we followed her example.

Between three and four we were all awakened by a loud knocking at the door, and Mademoiselle's
shrill voice calling out to her maids to open it.  Through the anteroom, where the Comtess
de Fiesque and I were sleeping, there came M. de Comminges.  Mademoiselle, in her laced night-cap,
rose on her pillows and asked--

'Are we going?'

'Yes, Mademoiselle,' was the reply.  'The King, the Queen, and Monsieur, are waiting for you
in the court, and here is a letter from Monsieur.'

She put it aside, saying she did not want Monsieur's orders to make her obey those of the Queen,
but he begged her to read it.  She glanced at it, and then declared that she would be ready
immediately. M. de Comminges departed, and then began the greatest bustle imaginable, everybody
dressing at once in the greatest confusion, putting on each other's things by mistake, and
Mademoiselle talking-- talking through all.

They were afraid to leave her behind, she said, lest she should have headed a party.  No doubt
M. le Prince dreaded her influence, and so did the Queen.  They had made her father issue his
commands without warning lest she should disobey.

In fact she had the greatest desire to disobey, only she did not quite venture, and we her
ladies had no notion what we were to do, whether to stay or go, while I was in great anxiety
as to what they might have done with my boy.

Somehow or other we all found ourselves in the court of the Louvre, strongly lighted by flambeaux,
and by the windows of the building. There stood a row of carriages; Mademoiselle called for
hers, but it was not forthcoming, and M. de Comminges, bowing low, offered her his own; but
another gentleman came up and handed her into the royal one, where already were the King and
Queen, the two Princesses of Conde, the Prince of Conti, and a lady.

I heard Mademoiselle asserting her right to one of the best seats, and then declaring that
she yielded 'as the young must give place to the old,' a little cut at the Princess Dowager
of Conde.  She bade M. de Fiesque follow with her carriage and properties, and we were left
in the most wonderful confusion in that dark court, the carriages moving away one after another,
the mounted servants carrying torches, and the guards trampling and clinking behind them; servants,
gentlemen, and ladies running about wildly, some of the women crying and wringing their hands.
Among these was Madame de Fiesque, who was of a timid nature, and was frightened out of her
wits at the notion of having to follow, whither she did not even know, while I was equally
wild, though I hope I did not make quite so much noise, about my son.

One of the gentlemen at last came and spoke to us, and told us that the King and Queen were
gone to St. Germain.  It had all been determined upon for some time past (as soon in fact as
the Queen knew that the Prince of Conde would support her, and that the troops were near enough
to be of use), and this night had been chosen because she could get off more easily in a time
of revelry.  Monsieur had known it all the evening, but had been afraid to tell his daughter
because of 'her ideas,' which meant that he was by no means sure that she might choose to obey,
unless she were taken by surprise, but might want to represent the House of Orleans at Paris.
The Queen of England was not gone; and, as to M. le Marquis de Nidemerle---

That question was answered by a sound of bare, pattering feet, and a cry of 'Mamma, mamma!'
and my little Marquis himself, with nothing on but his little white shirt and black velvet
breeches, his long hair streaming behind him, came and threw himself on me, followed by two
or three more little fellows in the same state of dishabille.  'Oh, mamma!' he cried, 'we thought
they were all gone, and had left us to be murdered by the cruel Parliament; and then I saw
you from the window in the court.'  So there they all were, except one little Count from Burgundy,
who slept serenely through the tumult.

By this time we could recollect that it was a January night, and that we had better retreat
into the great hall, where the fire was not out.  I had a great mind, since we were thus deserted,
to return home with my son, but my poor Princess could not be left without a single attendant,
or any clothes save what had been huddled on in haste, nor perhaps even a bed, for we knew
that St. Germain was dismantled of furniture, and that no preparations had been made for fear
of giving alarm.

M. de Fiesque declared that she should die if she tried to pass the streets of Paris, where
we began to hear loud cries.  The maids seemed to have all run away, and she implored me to
go, with all that was most necessary, to Mademoiselle.

'You are English!  You are a very Gildippe.  You have been in the wars--you fear nothing,'
said the poor woman.  'I implore you to go!'

And as I had my son with me, and it seemed to be a duty or even a charity that no one else
would undertake, though it was not likely that any harm could come to us, I sent Gaspard to
dress himself, with my faithful Nicolas, who had come to light.  The gentlemen undertook to
find us Mademoiselle's coach, and we hurried back to get together what we could for our mistress.
I laugh now to think of M. de Fiesque and myself trying with our inexperienced hands to roll
up a mattress and some bedding, and to find the linen and the toilet requisites, in which we
had but small success, for the femmes de chamber kept everything, and had all either run away
or slept too far off to hear us.  We managed at last to fasten up the mattress with the other
things in it, tied by a long scarf at each end, and dragging it to the top of the stairs we
rolled it down each flight. At the second it upset at unfortunate lackey, who began to yell,
firmly persuaded that it was a corpse, and that the Frondeurs had got in and were beginning
a general slaughter.

How we recovered from the confusion I do not know, but Gaspard joined me at the top of the
stairs, bringing with him a page of his own age, the little Chevalier de Mericour, whom he
entreated me to take with us.  All the other boys had relations close at hand; but this child's
mother was dead, and his father and brothers with the army.  Being really a cousin of Harry
Merrycourt's, he had always seemed like a relation, and he was Gaspard's chief friend, so I
was very willing to give him a seat in the carriage, which came from somewhere, and into which
the mattress was squeezed by some means or other.  Off we set, but no woman of any rank would
accompany me, for they said I had the courage of an Amazon to attempt to make my way through
the mob that was howling in the streets.

It certainly was somewhat terrible when we came out into the street thronged with people carrying
lanterns and torches, and tried to make our way step by step.  We had not gone far before a
big man, a butcher I should think, held up a torch to the window, and seeing my son's long
fair hair, shouted, 'The King! the King!  Here is the Queen carrying the King and the Duke
of Anjou!'

The whole mob seemed to surge round us, shrieking, screaming, and yelling; some trying to turn
the horses, others insisting that we should alight.  No one heard my assurances that we were
no such personages, that this was Mademoiselle's carriage, and that the Queen was gone long
ago; and, what was more fortunate, their ears did not catch young Mericour's denunciations
of them as vile canaille.  A market woman mounted on the step, and perceiving the mattress,
screeched out, 'The Cardinal--they are carrying off the Cardinal rolled up in a mattress!'

Their fury was redoubled.  I began to unite it to show them there was nothing, but we had drawn
the knots too tight, and Gaspard's little sword would not of course cut, nay, the gleam of
it only added to the general fury.  I really think if the Cardinal had been there they would
have torn him to pieces.  They were trying to drag open the doors, and would have done so much
sooner but for the crowds who were pushed against them and kept them shut.  At last there seemed
to be some one among them with a more authoritative tone.  The pressure on the door lessened,
and it was to my dismay torn open; but at that moment my son called out, 'M. Darpent! Oh, M.
Darpent, come to my mother!'  Immediately M. Clement Darpent, unarmed and in his usual dress,
with only a little came in his hand, made his way forward. Before I saw him I heard his welcome
voice calling, 'Madame de Bellaise here! I am coming, M. le Marquis!  The Queen!  Betise! 
I tell you it is a lady of my acquaintance.'

'The Cardinal!  She is carrying off the Italian rolled up in a mattress!  Down with the fox!'
came another terrible outcry; but by this time M. Darpent had been hustled up to the door,
and put himself between us and the throng.  He could hear me now when I told him it was merely
Mademoiselle's bedding which we were carrying out to her. He shouted out this intelligence,
and it made a lull; but one horrid fellow in a fur cap sneered, 'We know better than that,
Monsieur! Away with traitors! And those who would smuggle them away!'

'Oh! show it to them!' I cried; and then I saw a face that I had known in the hospital, and
called him by name.  'Jean Marie, my good friend, have you your knife to cut these cords and
show there is nothing inside?'

The man's honest face lighted up.  'Hein! The good tall lady who brought me bouillons!  I warrant
there is no harm in her, brothers! She's a good Frondeuse, and has nothing to do with foreign
traitors.'

He ranged himself beside Clement Darpent, offering a big knife, wherewith in a moment the bands
were cut and the mattress help up to view, with a few clothes inside.

I made my two defenders understand that they were Mademoiselle's garments, and when this was
repeated there was a general shout: 'Vive la bonne dame!  Vive Mademoiselle!  Vive Monsieur!
Vive la Fronde!'

Jean Marie, who had worked in a furniture shop, would have rolled up the bed in a trice much
better than before, but M. Darpent observed that as we were not yet out of Paris is might bring
us into trouble, and, inconvenient as it was, he advised us to keep it open till we were beyond
the gates.  He asked permission to accompany me to prevent any further annoyance, and Jean
Marie, to the extreme disgust of the servants, mounted the box, to serve as an additional guard.

No one could be kinder than M. Darpent.  He was very sad about this flight of the Court.  He
said he feared it was the beginning of a civil war, and that he had thought better of the blood
royal and noblesse of France than to suppose they would assist a Spanish woman and an Italian
priest to trample down and starve their fellow- countrymen in the name of a minor king.  He
expected that there would be a siege, for he was sure that the temper of the people was averse
to yielding, and the bourgeois put their trust in the archers.

I asked if he thought there would be any danger, thinking that I would either join my mother
and sister or endeavour to fetch them away; but he assured me that they would be safe.  Was
not the Queen of England left, as I assured him, and the Duchess of Longueville? M. le Prince
would allow no harm to touch the place where lived the sister he so passionately loved.  I
might be secure that the Hotel de Nid de Merle was perfectly safe, and he would himself watch
to see that they were not annoyed or terrified.  He gave me the means of writing a billet to
my mother from his little Advocate's portfolio, and he promised himself to convey it to her
and assure her of our safety, a message which I thought would make him welcome even to her.
He was most kind in every way, and when we came near the gate bethought him that the two little
boys looked pale and hungry, as well they might.  He stopped the carriage near a baker's shop,
which was already open, and going in himself, returned with not only bread, but a jug and cup
of milk.  I think we never enjoyed anything so much; and in the meantime the excellent Jean
Marie rolled up our mattress so close that, as Gaspard said, it could hardly have been supposed
to contain in puppy dog.

They saw us safely through the barriers.  M. Darpent gave his word for us, and out we went
into the country while scarcely the dawn was yet seen.  At a turn in the road we saw only the
morning star hanging like a great lamp in the east, and I showed it to the little boys, and
told them of the three kings led by the Star to the Cradle.  I heard afterwards that the little
Chevalier thought we saw the real Star in the East sent to guide us to St. Germain, forgetting
that it was the wrong direction; but he had been very little taught, and this was the first
he had ever heard of the Gospel, which was familiar to my boy.  They both fell asleep presently
on the cushions, and I think I did so likewise, for I was surprised to find myself at St. Germain
in broad daylight.  Everybody was gone to mass for the festival, and we crept in after them.

Mademoiselle was delighted to see me, and always believed we had made our passage so safely
in consequence of the respect paid to her and her carriage.  It was a strange day; no one did
anything but run about and hear or tell news of how the people in Paris were taking the departure
of the Court, and wonder when the troops would come up to begin the siege, or, what was more
pressing, what was to be done for food and for bedding?  We ate as we could.  Eggs and fowls
were brought in from the farms, but plates and dishes, knives and forks, were very scarce.
Some of us were happy when we could roast an egg in the embers for ourselves, and then eat
it when it was hard enough, and I thought how useful Annora would have been, who had done all
sorts of household work during the troubles at home.  But we were very merry over these devices.

The night was a greater difficulty.  Most of the windows had no frames nor glass in them, and
hardly any one had a bed.  Mademoiselle slept in a long gallery, splendidly painted and gilt,
but with the wind blowing at every crevice through the shutters, no curtains; only a few marble
tables against the wall by way of furniture, and the mattress spread upon the floor for her
and her youngest sister, who would not sleep unless she sang, and who woke continually.

I rolled up my two little boys in my great fur cloak, which I had happily brought with me,
for no one seemed disposed to take any charge of poor little Mericour, and Nicolas fetches
me the cushions from the carriage, so that they were tolerably comfortable.

As to us ladies and gentlemen, we rejoiced that at least faggots could be had.  We made up
a great fire, and sat round it, some playing at cards, other playing at games, telling stories,
or reciting poetry, interspersed with the sillier pastime of love- making.  Every one nodded
off to sleep, but soon to wake again,--and, oh, how still we were, and how our bones ached
after two such nights!

And the saddest and most provoking thing, at least to many of us, was the high spirits of the
Queen-Regent.

To be sure, she had not been without a bed in an unglazed room all night, and had a few maids
and a charge of clothes, but she had probably never been so much out of reach of state in her
life, and she evidently found it most amusing.  She did not seem to have an idea that it was
a fearful thing to begin a civil war, but thought the astonishment and disappointment of the
Parisians an excellent joke.  Grave and stately as she was by nature, she seemed quite transformed,
and laughed like a girl when no gold spoon could be found for her chocolate and she had to
use a silver one.  Yes, and she laughed still more at the ill-arranged limp curls and tumbled
lace of us poor creatures who had sat up all night, and tried to dress one another, with one
pocket-comb amongst us all!

All that day and all the text, however, parts of different people's equipages kept coming from
Paris.  Mademoiselle's were escorted by M. de Fiesque, who had been so civilly treated that
Mademoiselle gave passports for the Queen's wagons to come through Paris; and it was considered
to be a great joke that one of the bourgeois, examining a large box of new Spanish gloves,
was reported to have been quite overcome by the perfume, and to have sneezed violently when
he came to examine them.

We were in a strange state up there on the heights of St. Germain. Some of the Court had no
hangings for their great draughty rooms, others had no clothes, and those who had clothes had
no bedding. Very few of us had any money to supply our wants, and those who had soon lent it
all to the more distressed.  The Queen herself was obliged to borrow from the Princess Dowager,
even to provide food, and the keeping up of separate tables was impossible.  We all dined together,
King and Queen, Monsieur, Madame, and all, and the first day there was nothing but a great
pot au feu and the bouilli out of it; for the cooks had not arrived.  Even the spoons and knives
were so few that we had to wash them and use them in turn.  However, it was all gaiety on those
first days, the Queen was so merry that it was every one's cue to be the same; and as to the
King and the Duke of Anjou, they were full of mischief; it was nothing but holiday to them
to have no Court receptions.

At eight o'clock in the evening there came a deputation from Paris. They were kept waiting
outside in the snow while the Queen considered whether to receive them; and she could hardly
be persuaded to allow them to sleep under shelter at St. Germain, though on the road at that
time of night they were in danger from brigands, traveling soldiers, and I know not what!

They were at last admitted to the ranger's lodgings, and had an interview with the Chancellor,
who was harsh and peremptory, perhaps feeling himself avenged for his troubles and fright on
the day of the barricades.

When I heard that the President Darpent was among the deputation I sent Nicolas to find out
whether his son were there; and by and by I received a little billet, which excited much more
attention than I wished.  Some told me I was a Frondeuse, and M. le Baron de Lamont pretended
to be consumed with jealousy.  I had to explain publicly that it was only from my sister, and
then they pretended not to believe me.  It was in English, a tongue of which nobody knew a
single word, except that scandal declared that the Duke of Buckingham had taught the Queen
to say 'Ee lofe ou;' but it said only: 'We are quite well, and not alarmed, since we know you
are safe.  We had heard such strange rumors that my mother welcomed our friend as an angel
of consolation.'

I translated this to all whom it concerned; but M. de Lamont annoyed me much with his curiosity
and incredulity.  However, when I found that the unfortunate deputies were permitted to spend
the night in the guard-room I sent Nicolas to see whether he could be of any use to the Darpents.
Truly it was a night when, as the English say, one would not turn out one's enemy's dog, and
the road to Paris was far from safe; but the ranger's house was a wretched place for elderly
men more used to comfort than even the noblesse, whose castles are often bare enough, and who
are crowded and ill accommodated when in waiting at the palaces.

At that moment a bed was to ourselves a delightful luxury, which M. de Fiesque and I were to
share, so Nicolas could not do much for poor old Darpent, whom he found wet through from having
waited so long in the snow, melting as it fell; but he did lend him his own dry cloak, and
got some hot drink for him.  Clemet professed himself eternally grateful for this poor attention
when in the morning I sent my son with another note in return to be sent to my mother and sister;
and he promised to watch over them as his own life.

This was the last communication I had with my family for two months. The Queen had declared
that her absence would be only 'a little expedition of a week;' but week after week passed
on, and there we still were on the hill.  The troops could not entirely surround Paris, but
no such thing.  I think we were, on the whole, more hungry than those whom we blockaded.

As each set of officials finished their time of waiting they retired, and nobody came to replace
them, so our party became smaller from day to day, which was the less to be regretted as our
Lent was Lent indeed.  Nobody had any money, and provisions ran very short; everybody grumbled
but the Queen and Cardinal, and Mademoiselle, who enjoyed the situation and laughed at everybody.

In the intervals of grumbling every one was making love.  M. de Juvizy actually was presumptuous
enough to make love to the Queen, or to boast that he did.  Mademoiselle, I am sorry to say,
was in love, or, more truly, in ambition with the Prince of Conde; M. de S. Maigrin was said
to be in love with the Princess, M. de Chatillon with Mademoiselle de Guerchy, and so on.

Even I, who had always declared that it was a woman's own fault if she had a lover, did not
escape.  I had not my mother to shield me, and nobody had anything to do, so it was the universal
fashion; and M. de Lamont thought proper to pursue me.  I knew he was dissipated and good-for-nothing,
and I showed the coldest indifference; but that only gave him the opportunity of talking of
my cruelty, and he even persuaded Mademoiselle to assure me that he was in earnest.

'No doubt,' said I, 'he would like to meddle with the administration of Nid de Merle.  I have
no doubt he is in earnest about that!'

But there was no escape, as we lived, from being beset.  We had all to attend the Queen to
the Litanies at the chapel.  She used to remain in her little orator praying long after they
were finished, Mademoiselle with her, and, by her own account, generally asleep.  I am ashamed
to say how much chatter, and how many petits soins, went on among those waiting outside.  I
used to kneel, as I heard people say, like a grim statue over my chair, with my rosary hanging
from my hands, for if I did but hear a rustle and turn my head, there stood M. de Lamont with
a bonbonniere, or an offer to shield me from the draught, and I could hear a tittering behind me.

Yet there was enough to make us grave.  In a fight with the Frondeurs for Charenton, M. de
Chatillon, one of the handsomest and gayest of our cavaliers, was killed.  He was the grandson
of the Admiral de Coligny, and was said to have been converted to the Church by the miracle
of the ducks returning regularly to the pond where the saint had bound them to come.  I think
he must have made up his mind beforehand.  But it was a great shock to have that fine young
man thus cut down the day after he had been laughing and dancing in our gallery.  Yet all people
seemed to think of, when everybody went to condole with his young widow in her bed, was that
she had set herself off to the best advantage to captivate M. de Nemours!

And then came the great thunderbolt--the tidings of the death of the King of England!  I knew
it would almost kill Eustace; I thought of my poor godmother, Queen Henrietta, and there I
was among people who did not really care in the least!  It was to them merely a great piece
of news, that enabled them to say, 'Yield an inch to the Parliament and see what it will come to.'

That kind, dignified, melancholy countenance as I last saw it was constantly before me.  The
babble of the people around seemed to me detestable.  I answered at haphazard, and begged permission
of Mademoiselle to keep my room for a day, as I thought I should be distracted if I could not
get out of reach of M. de Lamont.

She gave permission, but she said it was an affectation of mine, for how could I care for a
somber old prince whom I had not seen for ten years?

CHAPTER XIX.

INSIDE PARIS

Annora's narrative.

My sister has asked me to fill up the account of the days of the Fronde with what I saw within
the city.  She must permit me to do so in English, for I have taken care to forget my French;
and if I write perilous stuff for French folk to read she need not translate it.

I will begin with that Twelfth-day morning when we were wakened by more noise and racket than
even Paris could generally produce.  There had been a little tumult about once a week for the
last six months, so we could endure a great deal, but this was plainly a much larger one. 
Some of the servants who went out brought word that the Queen had carried off the King in order
to be revenged on Paris, and that the people, in a rage, were breaking the carriages of her
suite to pieces, plundering the wagons, and beating, if not killing, every one in them.  We
were of course mightily troubled for my sister, and being only two women we could not go out
in quest of her, while each rumour we heard was more terrible than the last.  Some even said
that the Louvre had been asked and plundered; but old Sir Andrew Macniven, who had made his
way through the mob like a brave old Scottish knight, brought us word that he could assure
us that our own Queen was safe in her own apartments, and that there had been no attack on
the palace.

Still he had himself seen carriages plundered and broken to pieces by the mob, and the gates
were closely guarded.  Seeing our distress, he was about to go with Abbe to the Louvre, to
learn whether my sister and her son were there, when one of the servants came up to tell us
that M. Clement Darpent requested to see my mother, having brought us tidings of Madame la
Vicomtesse.

My poor mother never could endure the name of M. Darpent, because she did not like my brother's
friendship with any one not noble, but she was as glad to see him then as if he had been a
Montmorency or a Coucy.

I always like his manners, for they were even then more English than French.  Though going
through all due form, he always seemed to respect himself too much to let any one be supercilious
with him; and however she might begin at a vast distance, she always ended by talking to him
just as if he were, as she called it, our equal.  As if he were not infinitely the superior
of the hundreds of trumpery little apes of nobles who strutted about the galleries of the Louvre,
with nothing to do but mayhap to carry the Queen's fan, or curl her poodle's tail!

I see I have been writing just as I felt in those fervent days of my youth, when the quick
blood would throb at my heart and burn in my cheek at any slight to the real manhood and worth
I saw in him, and preference for the poor cringing courtiers I despised.  The thought of those
old days has brought me back to the story as all then seemed to me--the high-spirited, hot-tempered
maiden, who had missed all her small chances of even being mild and meek in the troubles at
home, and to whom Paris was a grievous place of banishment, only tolerable by the aid of my
dear brother and my poor Meg, when she was not too French and too Popish for me.  But that
was not her fault, poor thing.

My mother, however, was grateful enough to Clement Darpent for the nonce, when he told how
he had seen Meg safe beyond the gates. Moreover, he assured us that so far from 8000 horse
being ready to storm the city (I should like to have seen them!  Who ever took a fortress with
a charge of horse?) barely 200 had escorted their Majesties.  The Coadjutor had shown M. Blancmesnil
a note from the Queen telling him so, and summoning him to St. Germain.

It was likely, M. Darpent said, that the city would be besieged, but he did not foresee any
peril for us, and he promised to watch over us, as he would over his own mother, and that he
would give us continual intelligence so that we might provide for our safety.  It was amusing
to see how eagerly my mother accepted this offer, though she had almost forbidden him the house
when my brother left us.

I am sure my mother was as uneasy as any of us when he did not appear on the morning after
he had gone with his father on the deputation to St. Germain.  However, he did come later on
in the afternoon, bringing a note from Meg.  He had not seen her, only Nicolas and little Gaspard,
and he, like all the rest, was greatly incensed at the manner in which the magistrates had
been treated.  His father had, he said, caught a violent cold, and had been forced to go to
bed at once.  In fact it really was the poor old man's death-stroke, and he never quitted his
chamber, hardly even his bed.

The Parliament, in a rage, put forth a decree, declaring the Cardinal an enemy to the State,
and ordering him to leave the Court and kingdom on that very day, calling on all loyal subjects
to fall on him, and forbidding any one to give him shelter.

We heard loud acclamations, which made us think something unusual was going on, and it was
the publication of this precious edict.  I wondered who they thought was going to attend to
it when M. Darpent brought in a copy.  And my mother began to cry and talk about Lord Strafford.
I had to think of Eustace and bite my tongue to keep my patience at our noble 'thorough' Wentworth
being likened to that base cringing Italian.

Clement Darpent said, however, that every one had passed it by acclamation, except Bernai,
who was a mere cook, and gave fine dinners to such a set of low, loose creatures that he was
called 'le cabaretier de la cour.'  Moreover, they proceeded to give orders for levying 4000
horse and 10,000 foot.  This really did mean civil war.

'I knew it,' said my mother, 'it is the next step after denouncing the King's minister.  We
shall see you next armed cap-a-pie, like our young advocates at home, all for the King's behalf,
according to them.'

Of course she was thinking of Harry Merrycourt, but she was surprised by the answer.

'No, Madam, nothing shall induce me to bear arms against the King. So much have I learned from
the two living persons who I esteem the most.'

'And they are?' asked my lady.

'My mother and monsieur votre fils,' he replied.

And I could not help crying out---

'Oh, sir, you are right.  I know that Harry Merrycourt feels NOW that nothing can justify rebellion,
and that he little knew whither he should be led.'

'And yet,' said he, clasping his hands together with intensity of fervour, 'when all is rotten
to the core, venal, unjust, tyrannical, how endure without an endeavour at a remedy?  Yet it
may be that an imposing attitude will prevail!  Self-defence without a blow.'

It seemed as if such war as they were likely to wage could do no one much damage, for they
actually chose as their generalissimo that ridiculous little sickly being, the Prince de Conty,
who had quarrelled with the Court about a cardinal's hat, and had run away from his mother's
apron string at St. Germain to his sister's at Paris.

On recalling it, all was a mere farce together, and the people were always stringing together
lampoons in rhyme, and singing them in the streets.  One still rings in my head, about a dissolute
impoverished Marquis d'Elbeuf, one of the house of Lorraine, whom the prospect of pay induced
to offer his services to the Parliament.

                   'Le pauvre Monseigneur d'Elbeuf,
                     Qui n'avait aucun ressource,
                   Et qui ne mangeait que du boeuf.
                    Le pauvre Monseigneur d'Elbeuf,
                      A maintenant un habit neuf
                   Et quelques justes dans sa bourse.  These young men were in high
spirits.  You will find no traces of their feelings in the memoirs of
the time, for of course nothing of the kind would be allowed to pass
the censors of the press.  But there was a wonderful sense of liberty
of speech and tongue during that siege.  The younger gens de la robe,
as they were called, who, like Clement Darpent, had read their Livy
and Plutarch, were full of ideas of public virtue, and had meetings
among themselves, where M. Darpent dwelt on what he had imbibed from
my brother of English notions of duty to God, the King and the State.
It may seem strange that a cavalier family like ourselves should have
infused notions which were declared to smack of revolution, but the
constitution we had loved and fought for was a very Utopia to these
young French advocates.  They, with the sanguine dreams of youth,
hoped that the Fronde was the beginning of a better state of things,
when all offices should be obtained by merit, never bought and sold,
and many of them were inventions of the Court for the express purpose
of sale.  The great Cardinal had actually created forty offices for
counselors merely in order to sell them and their reversions!  The
holders of these were universally laughed at, and not treated as on a
level with the old hereditary office-bearers, who at least might
think themselves of some use.

