Some years ago a Viking (or Warrior's) ship, as old as those used by Ericsson, was found in
the "King's Mound" in Gokstad, Southern Norway. Seated in her was the skeleton of the Viking
Chief who, as the custom used to be, was buried in his floating home.  He must have stood well
over six foot three and been immensely strong, judging by his deep chest, broad shoulders,
and long arms fit to cleave a foeman at a single stroke.  This Viking vessel is so well shaped
to stand the biggest waves, and yet slip through the water with the greatest ease, that she
could be used as a model now.  She has thirty-two oars and a big square sail on a mast, which,
like the one in the old Egyptian boat we were talking of in Chapter II, could be quickly raised
or lowered. If she had only had proper sails and rigging she could have tacked against the
wind.  But, as we shall soon see, the art of tacking was not invented till five centuries later;
though then it was done by an English descendant of the Vikings.

Eighty foot long and sixteen in the beam, this Viking vessel must have looked the real thing
as she scudded before a following wind or dashed ahead when her thirty-two oars were swept
through the water by sixty-four pairs of the strongest arms on earth.  Her figure-head has
gone; but she probably had a fierce dragon over the bows, just ready to strike.  Her sides
were hung with glittering shields; and when mere landsmen saw a Viking fleet draw near, the
oars go in, the swords come out, and Vikings leap ashore--no wonder they shivered in their shoes!

It was in this way that the Normans first arrived in Normandy and made a home there in spite
of Franks and Gauls, just as the Danes made English homes in spite of Celts and Anglo-Saxons.
There was no navy to oppose them.  Neither was there any fleet to oppose William the Conqueror
in 1066, when he crossed the Channel to seize the English Crown.  Harold of England had no
great fleet in any case; and what he had was off the Yorkshire coast, where his brother had
come to claim the Crown, backed by the King of Norway.  The Battle of Hastings, which made
William king of England, was therefore a land battle only.  But the fact that William had a
fleet in the Channel, while Harold had not, gave William the usual advantage in the campaign.
From that day to this England has never been invaded; and for the best of all reasons--because
no enemy could ever safely pass her fleet.

The Normans at last gave England what none of her other Norsemen gave her, the power of becoming
the head and heart of the future British Empire.  The Celts, Danes, Jutes, and Anglo-Saxons
had been fusing together the iron of their natures to make one strong, united British race.
The Normans changed this iron into steel: well tempered, stronger than iron could be, and splendidly
fit for all the great work of imperial statesmen as well as for that of warriors by land and sea.

The Normans were not so great in numbers.  But they were very great in leadership.  They were
a race of rulers.  Picked men of Nordic stock to start with, they had learnt the best that
France could teach them: Roman law and order and the art of founding empires, Frankish love
of freedom, a touch of Celtic wit, and the new French civilization.  They went all over seaboard
Europe, conquerors and leaders wherever they went.  But nowhere did they set their mark so
firmly and so lastingly as in the British Isles.  They not only conquered and became leaders
among their fellow-Norsemen but they went through most of Celtic Scotland, Ireland, and Wales,
founding many a family whose descendants have helped to make the Empire what it is.

William the Conqueror built a fleet as soon as he could; for only a few of the vessels he brought
over from Normandy were of any use as men-of-war.  But there were no great battles on the water
till the one off the South Foreland more than a century after his death.  He and the kings
after him always had to keep their weather eye open for Danes and other rovers of the sea as
well as for the navy of the kings of France. But, except when Henry II went to Ireland in 1171,
there was no great expedition requiring a large fleet.  Strongbow and other ambitious nobles
had then begun conquering parts of Ireland on their own account. So Henry recalled his Englishmen,
lest they should go too far without him, and held a court at which they promised to give him,
as their liege overlord, all the conquests they either had made or might make. Henry, who understood
the value of sea-power, at once granted them whatever they could conquer, except the seaports,
which he would keep for the Crown.

When Henry died Richard the Lion-Hearted and Philip Augustus of France agreed to join in a
great Crusade.  Zeal for the Christian religion and love of adventure together drew vast numbers
of Crusaders to the Holy Land.  But sea-power also had a great deal to do with the Crusades.
The Saracens, already strong at sea in the East, were growing so much stronger that Western
statesmen thought it high time to check them, lest their fleets should command the whole Mediterranean
and perhaps the seas beyond.

In 1190 Richard joined his fleet at Messina, in Sicily, where roving Normans were of course
to be found as leaders in peace and war. Vinesauf the historian, who was what we should now
call a war correspondent, wrote a glowing account of the scene.  "As soon as the people heard
of his arrival they rushed in crowds to the shore to behold the glorious King of England, and
saw the sea covered with innumerable galleys.  And the sound of trumpets from afar, with the
sharper blasts of clarions, resounded in their ears.  And they saw the galleys rowing near
the land, adorned and furnished with all kinds of arms, with countless pennons floating in
the breeze, ensigns at the tops of lances, the beaks of the galleys beautified by painting,
and glittering shields hanging from the prows.  The sea looked as if it was boiling from the
vast number of oar blades in it.  The trumpets grew almost deafening.  And each arrival was
greeted with bursts of cheering.  Then our splendid King stood up on a prow higher than all
the rest, with a gorgeously dressed staff of warriors about him, and surveyed the scene with
pleasure.  After this he landed, beautifully dressed, and showed himself graciously to all
who approached him."

The whole English fleet numbered about two hundred and thirty vessels, with stores for a year
and money enough for longer still.  A southerly gale made nearly everybody sea-sick; for the
Italian rowers in the galleys were little better as seamen than the soldiers were, being used
to calm waters.  Some vessels were wrecked on the rocks of Cyprus, when their crews were robbed
by the king there.  This roused the Lion-Hearted, who headed a landing party which soon brought
King Comnenus to his senses.  Vinesauf wrote to say that when Comnenus sued for peace Richard
was mounted on a splendid Spanish war-horse and dressed in a red silk tunic embroidered with
gold.  Red seems to have been a favourite English war colour from very early times.  The red
St. George's Cross on a white field was flown from the masthead by the commander-in-chief of
the fleet, just as it is today.  On another flag always used aboard ship three British lions
were displayed.

After putting Comnenus into silver chains and shutting him up in a castle Richard set two governors
over Cyprus, which thus became the first Eastern possession of the British Crown.  Seven centuries
later it again came into British hands, this time to stay.  Richard then sailed for the siege
of Acre in Palestine.  But on the way he met a Turkish ship of such enormous size that she
simply took Vinesauf's breath away.  No one thought that any ship so big had ever been built
before, "unless it might be Noah's Ark", Richard had a hundred galleys. The Turkish ship was
quite alone; but she was a tough nut to crack, for all that.  She was said to have had fifteen
hundred men aboard, which might be true, as soldiers being rushed over for the defence of Acre
were probably packed like herrings in a barrel.  As this was the first English sea fight in
the Crusades, and the first in which a King of all England fought, the date should be set down:
the 7th of June, 1191.

The Turk was a very stoutly built vessel, high out of the water and with three tall masts,
each provided with a fighting top from which stones and jars of Greek fire could be hurled
down on the galleys.  She also had "two hundred most deadly serpents, prepared for killing
Christians."  Altogether, she seems to have been about as devilish a craft as even Germans
could invent.  As she showed no colours Richard hailed her, when she said she was a French
ship bound for Acre.  But as no one on board could speak French he sent a galley to test her.
As soon as the Englishmen went near enough the Turks threw Greek fire on them.  Then Richard
called out: "Follow me and take her!  If she escapes you lose my love for ever.  If you take
her, all that is in her will be yours."  But when the galleys swarmed round her she beat them
off with deadly showers of arrows and Greek fire.  There was a pause, and the galleys seemed
less anxious to close again.  Then Richard roared out: "If this ship escapes every one of you
men will be hanged!" After this some men jumped overboard with tackle which they made fast
to the Turkish rudder.  They and others then climbed up her sides, having made ropes fast with
grapnels.  A furious slashing and stabbing followed on deck.  The Turks below swarmed up and
drove the English overboard.  Nothing daunted, Richard prepared to ram her.  Forming up his
best galleys in line-abreast he urged the rowers to their utmost speed.  With a terrific rending
crash the deadly galley beaks bit home. The Turk was stove in so badly that she listed over
and sank like a stone.  It is a pity that we do not know her name.  For she fought overwhelming
numbers with a dauntless courage that nothing could surpass.  As she was the kind of ship then
called a "dromon" she might be best remembered as "the dauntless dromon."

King John, who followed Richard on the throne of England, should be known as John the Unjust.
He was hated in Normandy, which Philip Augustus of France took from him in 1204.  He was hated
in England, where the English lords forced him to sign Magna Charta in 1215.  False to his
word, he had no sooner signed it than he began plotting to get back the power he had so shamefully
misused; and the working out of this plot brought on the first great sea fight with the French.

Looking out for a better king the lords chose Prince Louis of France, who landed in England
next year and met them in London.  But John suddenly died.  His son, Henry III, was only nine.
So England was ruled by William Marshal, the great Earl of Pembroke, one of the ablest patriots
who ever lived.  Once John was out of the way the English lords who had wrung from him the
great charter of English liberties became very suspicious of Louis and the French.  A French
army was besieging Lincoln in 1217, helped by the English followers of Louis, when the Earl
Marshal, as Pembroke is called, caught this Anglo-French force between his own army and the
garrison, who joined the attack, and utterly defeated it in a battle the people called the
Fair of Lincoln. Louis, who had been besieging Dover, at once sent to France for another army.
But this brought on the battle of the South Foreland, which was the ruin of his hopes.

The French commander was Eustace the Monk, a Flemish hireling who had fought first for John
and then for Louis.  He was good at changing sides, having changed from monk to pirate because
it paid him better, and having since been always up for sale to whichever side would pay him
best.  But he was bold and skilful; he had a strong fleet; and both he and his followers were
very keen to help Louis, who had promised them the spoils of England if they won.  Luckily
for England this danger brought forth her first great sea commander, Hubert de Burgh: let his
name be long remembered.  Hubert had stood out against Louis as firmly as he had against John,
and as firmly as he was again to face another bad king, when Henry III tried to follow John's
example. Hubert had refused to let Louis into Dover Castle.  He had kept him out during the
siege that followed.  And he was now holding this key to the English Channel with the same
skill and courage as was shown by the famous Dover Patrol throughout the war against the Germans.

Hubert saw at once that the best way to defend England from invasion was to defeat the enemy
at sea by sailing out to meet him.  This is as true today as ever.  The best possible way of
defending yourself always is to destroy the enemy's means of destroying you; and, with us of
the British Empire, the only sure way to begin is to smash the enemy's fleet or, if it hides
in port, blockade it.  Hubert, of course, had trouble to persuade even the patriotic nobles
that his own way was the right one; for, just as at the present day, most people knew nothing
of the sea.  But the men of the Cinque Ports, the five great seaports on the south-east coast
of England, did know whereof they spoke when they answered Hubert's call: "If this tyrant Eustace
lands he will lay the country waste.  Let us therefore meet him while he is at sea."

Hubert's English fleet of forty ships sailed from Dover on the 24th of August, 1217, and steered
towards Calais; for the wind was south-south-east and Hubert wished to keep the weather gage.
For six hundred years to come, (that is, till, after Trafalgar, sails gave way to steam), the
sea commanders who fought to win by bold attack always tried to keep the weather gage.  This
means that they kept on the windward side of the enemy, which gave them a great advantage,
as they could then choose their own time for attacking and the best weak spot to attack, while
the enemy, having the wind ahead, could not move half so fast, except when running away.  Hubert
de Burgh was the first commander who understood all about the weather gage and how to get it.
Even the clever Eustace was taken in, for he said, "I know these clever villains want to plunder
Calais.  But the people there are ready for them."  So he held his course to the Forelands,
meaning to round into the mouth of Thames and make for London.

Then Hubert bore down.  His fleet was the smaller; but as he had the weather gage he succeeded
in smashing up the French rear before the rest could help it.  As each English vessel ranged
alongside it threw grappling irons into the enemy, who were thus held fast.  The English archers
hailed a storm of well aimed arrows on the French decks, which were densely crowded by the
soldiers Eustace was taking over to conquer England.  Then the English boarded, blinding the
nearest French with lime, cutting their rigging to make their vessels helpless, and defeating
the crews with great slaughter.  Eustace, having lost the weather gage, with which he had started
out that morning, could only bring his fleet into action bit by bit.  Hubert's whole fleet
fought together and won a perfect victory.

More than a century later the unhappy Hundred Years War (1336-1431) broke out.  All the countries
of Western Europe took a hand in it at one time or another.  Scotland, which was a sort of
sub-kingdom under the King of England, sided with France because she wished to be independent
of England, while the smaller countries on the eastern frontier of France sided with England
because they were afraid of France.  But the two great opponents were always France and England.
The Kings of England had come from Normandy and other parts of what is now France and what
then were fiefs of the Crown of France, as Scotland was a fief of the Crown of England.  They
therefore took as much interest in what they held in France as in their own out-and-out Kingdom
of England.  Moreover, they not only wanted to keep what they had in France but to make it
as independent of the French King as the Scotch King wanted to make Scotland independent of them.

In the end the best thing happened; for it was best to have both kingdoms completed in the
way laid out by Nature: France, a great land-power, with a race of soldiers, having all that
is France now; and England, the great sea-power, with a race of sailors, becoming one of the
countries that now make up the United Kingdom of the British Isles. But it took a hundred years
to get the English out of France, and much longer still to bring all parts of the British Isles
under a single king.

In the fourteenth century the population of France, including all the French possessions of
the English Crown, was four times the population of England.  One would suppose that the French
could easily have driven the English out of every part of France and have carried the war into
England, as the Romans carried their war into Carthage.  But English sea-power made all the
difference.  Sea-power not only kept Frenchmen out of England but it helped Englishmen to stay
in France and win many a battle there as well.  Most of the time the English fleet held the
command of the sea along the French as well as along the English coast. So the English armies
enjoyed the immense advantage of sea-transport over land-transport, whenever men, arms, horses,
stores, food, and whatever else their armies needed could be moved by water, while the French
were moving their own supplies by land with more than ten times as much trouble and delay.

Another and most important point about the Hundred Years War is this: that it does not stand
alone in history, but is only the first of the two very different kinds of Hundred Years War
which France and England have fought out.  The first Hundred Years War was fought to decide
the absolute possession of all the lands where Frenchmen lived; and France, most happily, came
out victorious.  The second Hundred Years War (1689-1815) was fought to decide the command
of the sea; and England won.  When we reach this second Hundred Years War, and more especially
when we reach that part of it which was directed by the mighty Pitt, we shall understand it
as the war which made the British Empire of today.

