    Through Morven's woods when countless tempests roar,
    When from the height a hundred torrents pour,
    Like storm-clouds rushing through the vault of heaven,
    As when the mighty main on shore is driven,
    So wide, so loud, so dark, so fierce the strain
    When met the angry chiefs on Lena's plain.
    The king rushed forward with resistless might,
    Dreadful as Trenmor's awe-inspiring sprite,
    When on the fitful blast he comes again
    To Morven, his forefather's loved domain.
    Loud in the gale the mountain oaks shall roar,
    The mountain rocks shall fall his face before,
    As by the lightning's gleam his form is spied
    Stalking from hill to hill with giant stride.
    More terrible in fight my father seemed
    When in his hand of might his weapon gleamed,
    On his own youth the king with gladness thought
    When in the furious highland wars he fought.--Fingal B. III.

The notion that Ossian drew in part, at least from real life, is favoured by the wonderful
calmness and absence of effort evinced in delineating so great a character. Expressions that
go far to heighten our admiration of Fingal are employed in a quiet matter of course way. "The
silence of the king is terrible," is an expressive sentence. Or this again, "The heroes ...
looked in silence on each other marking the eyes of Fingal."

Nor are the gentler feelings less fully brought out in Ossian's favourite character. Nothing
could speak more for his affability than the attachment shown by his followers. "Fear, like
a vapour winds not among the host! for he, the king, is near; the strength of streamy Selma.
Gladness brightens the hero. We hear his words with joy."[A]

Gallantry and philanthropy we might expect to find in his composition, but the tenderness he
frequently displays strikes us as remarkable in an uncivilized chief. His lamentation over
the British city on the Clyde is as pathetic as any similar passage in our language.

Another surprising trait is the generosity he invariably displays to his vanquished foes. All
the more surprising is it that a "savage" should show magnanimity when the heroes of civilized
Greece, Rome, and Judea, counted it virtuous to torture their captured enemies. "None ever
went sad from Fingal," he says himself. Over and over he is represented as lamenting the death
of enemies when they fall, or granting them freedom and his friendship when they yield--"Come
to my hill of feasts," he says to his wounded opponent Cathmor, "the mighty fail at times.
No fire am I to lowlaid foes. I rejoice not over the fall of the brave."

A notable fact about Fingal is, that though he lived in times of war, in disposition he was
a man of peace. "Fingal delights not in battle though his arm is strong." "When will Fingal
cease to fight?" he complains, "I was born in the midst of battles, and my steps must move
in blood to the tomb." Under the influence of this desire for peace he formally gave up his
arms to Ossian--

    My son, around me roll my byegone years,
    They come and whisper in the monarch's ears.
    "Why does not grey-haired Fingal rest?" they say
    "Why does he not within his fortress stay?
    Dost thou in battle's gory wounds delight?
    Lovest thou the tears of vanquished men of might?"
    Ye hoary years! I will in quiet lie,
    Nor profit nor delight in blood have I.
    Like blustering storms from wintry skies that roll,
    Tears waste with grief and dreariness the soul.
    But when I stretch myself to rest, I hear
    The voice of war come thundering on my ear
    Within the royal hall, with loud command,
    To rouse and draw again th' unwilling brand.--Tem. B. VIII.

Limited as were the means of communication in those pre-telegraphic times the fame of such
a man must have spread. Accordingly, we read of his name being known and respected far and
near. Foreign princes speak of him with admiration, and refugees from distant lands seek his
protection.

But it is on the power of his name in after times that we wish more particularly to dwell.
There have been no people who honoured their heroes so much as the Celts. With them valour
and value were synonymous terms. Theirs was not a nobility of money, or literature, or 疆sthetics,
or even of territory. Nobleness should be the qualification of a nobleman, and strange as it
may seem, it was among the uncivilised Celts of Ireland and Scotland that such a character
was properly appreciated. But they held nobleness and heroism to be identical. They seem to
have thoroughly believed that cowardice was but the result of vice. A fearless man, they felt,
must be a true man, and he was honoured accordingly. Flath-innis, the Isle of the Noble, was
their only name for heaven. Allail or divine they applied to their heroic men. To imitate such
was the old Celtic religion as it was the primitive religion of most other peoples.

Among all the heroes whom the ancient Gael worshipped there was no name so influential as Fingal's.
Through the ages he has been the idol and ideal of the Celt. His example was their rule of
justice. His maxims were cited much as we would quote Scripture. To the youth he was held up
as the model after which their lives should be patterned, and where Christianity had not yet
eradicated the old creed, a post mortem dwelling with him in Flath-innis was deemed no mean
incentive to goodness. He was, in fact, the god of the Gaelic people, worshipped with no outward
altar, but enshrined in the hearts of his admirers. How far the more admirable traits of Highland
character may be attributed to the assimilating influence of the idea of Fingal we cannot decide.
That our character as a people has been largely influenced for good by the power of his example
we have no doubt. The bards, an order of the old Druidic hierarchy, became the priests of the
Fingalian hero-worship. Songs, elegies, and poetic legends formed their service of praise.
To induce their countrymen to reverence and imitate so great and glorious a Gael as Fingal
was the object of many of their bardic homilies. Taking into account the nature and circumstances
of the ancient Caledonians, we must conclude that from position and influence none were more
suitable to become their ethical and 疆sthetical advisers than these minstrel ministers of the
Fingalian hero-olatry.

Of course such a faith could not long withstand the more generous and cosmopolitan spirit of
Christianity, yet we venture to assert that it was vastly preferable in its effects to some
abortions of our common creed. That there was a conflict between the two religions we know.
As late as the sixteenth century a Christian ecclesiastic complains that the leaders of Gaelic
thought of the period were heathen enough to delight in "stories about the Tuath de Dhanond
and about the sons of Milesius, and about the heroes and Fionn (Fingal), the son of Cumhail
with his Fingalians ... rather than to write and to compose and to support the faithful words
of God and the perfect way of truth."

Down to the present day the name of Fionn is reverenced by the less sophisticated Highlanders
and Islanders. That his name will in future be more extensively, if less intensely, respected
we may confidently predict. As men's views become more broad and just, and their feelings become
more cultivated and refined, we may hope that a superior character such as Fingal will by-and-bye
be appreciated. Even now he is widely admired and we begin to read in the signs of the times
the fulfilment of his own words:--

        When then art crumbled into dust, O! stone;
    Lost in the moss of years around thee grown;
    My fame, which chiefs and heroes love to praise,
    Shall shine a beam of light to future days,
    Because I went in steel and faced th' alarms
    Of war, to help and save the weak in arms.--Tem. B. VIII.

                                                     MINNIE LITTLEJOHN.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote A: The quotations in prose are from Macpherson's translation.]