It is almost a crime in criticism to deal with such a multitude of deep problems in so brief
and hasty an essay. But if we have roughly indicated the main outlines of the author's position,
we shall have done as much as can be reasonably expected of us; though it is with great reluctance
that we pass over many points, and even whole chapters, bristling with interest.

Perhaps the most important feature of the book is the prominence it gives to the difficulties
and insufficiencies of idealism. With those of realism we are all familiar enough, but so far,
idealism has been looked at one-sidedly as evading, if not solving, some of the antinomies
of the earlier philosophy, while its own embarrassments have been condoned in hopes of future
solution. The solution has not come, and now the hopes are dead or dying. What we need is a
higher synthesis, if such be possible for the human mind, or else a frank admission that faith,
in some sense or other, is a necessary complement of every philosophy. One thing is clear,
that reconciliation can be effected, if at all, only by a fair-minded admission of difficulties
inseparable from either system, and by a conscientious criticism of presuppositions. No one
can deal effectually with the idealist position to whom it is simply "absurd" or "ridiculous;"
who has not been to some degree intellectually entangled in it; whose realism is not more or
less of an effort. Else he is dealing with some man of straw of his own fancy, and will be
found, as so often happens, assuming the truth of realism in every argument he brings forward.
Plainly the best minds of modern times have not been victimized by a fallacy within the competence
of a school-boy. And a like intellectual self-denial is needed on the part of the idealist,
who is apt to dismiss all realism as crude, uncritical, or barbaric. We have all our antinomies,
our blind alleys, our crudities; and we have all to fill up awkward interstices with assumptions
and postulates.

However much we may dissent from Mr. D'Arcy's theology in certain details; however little we
personally may labour under the difficulties of idealism, we cannot too strongly commend the
endeavour to meet the modern mind on its own platform; to speak to the cultivated in their
own language. Belief is caused by the wish to believe; but it is conditioned by the removal
of intellectual obstacles, different for different grades of intelligence and education. To
create the "wish to believe" is largely a matter of example, of letting Christianity appear
attractive and desirable, and correspondent to the deeper needs of the soul. It is also to
some extent a work of exposition. But when this all-important wish has been created, the intellect
can hinder its effect. It is much to know and feel that Christianity is good and useful and
beautiful; "But some time or other the question must be asked: Is it true?" And to liberate
the will by satisfying the intellect is work of what alone is properly called apologetic. Unless
we fall back into quietism which would tell us to read a Kempis and say our prayers and wait,
we must address ourselves first of all to making Christianity attractive; and then to making
it intelligible. And if we do not find it against Gospel simplicity to address ourselves, as
we continually do, to the intelligence of the semi-educated, we cannot allege that scruple
as a reason why we should not address ourselves to the fully educated,--to those who eventually
form and guide the opinions of the many.

Feb. 1901.

Footnotes:

[Footnote 1: Idealism and Theology. By Charles D'Arcy, B.D. Hodder and Stoughton, 1900.]