=Sweet Scents.=--Perfumes were used in the early times of the Chinese Empire, when ladies had
a habit of rubbing in their hands a round ball made of a mixture of amber, musk, and sweet-scented
flowers. The Jews, who were also devoted to sweet scents, used them in their sacrifices, and
also to anoint themselves before their repasts. The Scythian ladies went a step farther, and
after pounding on a stone cedar, cypress, and incense, made up the ingredients thus obtained
into a thick paste, with which they smeared their faces and limbs. The composition emitted
for a long time a pleasing odor, and on the following day gave to the skin a soft and shining
appearance. The Greeks carried sachets of scent in their dresses, and filled their dining-rooms
with fumes and incense. Even their wines were often impregnated with decoctions of flowers.
The Athenians anointed pigeons with liquid perfume, and let them fly loose about a room, scattering
the drops over the guests.

THE MOTHER SINGS SOFTLY TO HERSELF:

  Play, baby, in thy cradle play--
        Tick goes the clock, tick-tick, tick-tick;
        And quick goes time, quick, quick!
  Grow, baby, grow, with every day--
        Tick goes the clock, tick-tick, tick-tick;
  And babyhood will pass away,
        For quick goes time, quick, quick!
  To pretty girlhood thou wilt grow--
        Tick goes the clock, tick-tick, tick-tick;
  To womanhood, before we know,
        For quick goes time, quick, quick!
  And some brave lad will come some day--
        Tick goes the clock, tick-tick, tick-tick;
  And steal my baby's heart away:
        Ah, quick goes time, quick, quick!

Charley Bangs is a nice boy, but it was not right of him to take his big dog Towser to school
when he heard the teacher was going to give him a flogging-- And then to say he was afraid
to send the dog home because it was so vicious, and might turn on him, and bite him!

TO THE READERS OF HARPER'S YOUNG PEOPLE.

       *       *       *       *       *

A CHRISTMAS GREETING.

       *       *       *       *       *

The publishers of HARPER'S YOUNG PEOPLE congratulate their readers on the approach of the merry
holiday season, and take pleasure in announcing the enlargement of this journal to sixteen
pages, beginning with the Christmas number, which will be published December 23.

This change will enable the publishers to give their young readers every week an increased
variety of stories, poems, sketches, and other attractive reading, from the best writers that
can be secured. The publishers will also avail themselves of this occasion to present HARPER'S
YOUNG PEOPLE to their subscribers in new and enlarged type, which will greatly add to the beauty
and attractiveness of its appearance.

No pains or expense will be spared to make HARPER'S YOUNG PEOPLE the most entertaining, instructive,
high-toned, and popular weekly paper for the youthful readers of America.