"

"It was a wild, idle thought," said Dumiger, faltering forth a thousand apologies. "I did not
know what I said. Two friends led me into this error. I am sure you will forgive me, sir: I
was excited; my brain was in that state I really did not know what I said. Who ever could have
repeated this to your Excellency?"

"No one repeated it." said the Count, "so you need not entertain any mistrust of your friends.
One of my household overheard you; and his ear having caught the sound of my name, he listened
attentively, that is all. But what does it signify? You did just as all young men--ay, and
the best of our young men, do--drank deep of the Rhenish. I like you the better for it. And
then, by all accounts, you had some cause for excitement, for you believe you are to win the
greatest prize that Dantzic has ever proposed for one of her citizens."

The scene of the last night passed from Dumiger's memory when the hope of fame and the prospect
of success were mentioned. His whole countenance changed, his eye brightened, and the nostril
dilated.

"You heard that, also, your Excellency!" he said. "Well, then, I need not scruple to tell you
the truth. Yes, I have labored night and day, and I hope to obtain the reward of all this self-sacrifice;
and now I draw near the goal my blood is excited--I am fevered by my hopes. Look here, sir,"
and forgeting all his fears and etiquettes, he took the Count by the arm and led him to a curtain
which was drawn across a corner of the room where the model-clock was placed. "Here is the
work; it approaches completion; is it not worthy of the prize?"

Even to the most unpracticed eye this model of a great work appeared to be of admirable skill.
So complicated was the machinery, that the marvel seemed to be how it was possible so nicely
to have arranged its various parts, that they could find sufficient space for working. Massive
weights were regulated by springs of such fine texture, that it was surprising how they could
possibly have been made by a man's rude hand. The movement was perfectly noiseless, so beautifully
were the balances arranged around the principal works of the clock itself: the heavenly bodies
were moving in harmony and regularity; the face of the clock had not yet been affixed, so the
whole of the interior operations of the machinery were apparent. The Count gazed astonished
at the result of long perseverance and indomitable energy. Dumiger stood beside him holding
the massive curtain aside, and delighting in the Count's amazement. At length he allowed it
to fall, exclaiming, with pardonable self-love, "Surely this must succeed!"

The Count resumed his seat, and, for some time, was unable to regain the composure which he
had lost by the sight which he had seen. Dumiger sat buried in thought.

"And when you have succeeded, Dumiger," said the Count, in a voice which he intended to be
very kind, but whose inflection manifested a bitter disappointment,--"and when you have succeeded,
will you be happier? Do you think, Dumiger, that greatness adds to happiness? Ah, you know
little of the world if you believe this. Besides, remember, you may fail, and then how bitter
your disappointment will be!"

Dumiger was seated with his arms folded, and scarcely paying any attention to the Count's observations:
his mind was wandering amid the planets.

"Look, Dumiger, you are attached to Marguerite."

At the name of Marguerite, Dumiger raised his head and concentrated all his attention.

"You love her better than all the world?"

"Far better," said Dumiger.

"For her, like a man of heart, you would sacrifice everything!" continued the wily Count.

Dumiger nodded his head in assent.

"Even the clock?"

A glow mantled over Dumiger's cheek; he was about to answer in the affirmative, when he remembered
that the clock had been his companion for five years past. He had lived with it, breathed his
own life into its movements,--should he renounce the clock? It, as well as Marguerite, had
become a part of himself; it had long stood him in the place of family, of love, of all those
enjoyments which youth so wantonly and earnestly clings to. The results of success, ambition,
honors, wealth,--all this he would give up for Marguerite; but his clock--he hesitated.

The Count repeated the question.

At that moment a sweet voice might be heard caroling one of those simple national airs which
are dear to all nations and all times. Marguerite had a soft, winning voice, well adapted to
the song she was singing. The Count, as well as Dumiger, paused in his conversation; the color
rose again to Dumiger's face as he thought how nearly he was on the point of sacrificing his
faith, and loving the work of his own hands more than the admirable work of Nature which had
been bestowed upon him, and, as he listened, he lowered his voice and said,--

"For her I would sacrifice even the clock!"

"You shall," exclaimed the Count.

"I shall!" said Dumiger, starting from his seat. "Now in what way do you mean, my Lord Count?"

"You know," said the Count, "the value of the prize which is offered by the town. It is worth
little in money. The honor is considered sufficient. Then you are to be given high place amongst
the good citizens, a laurel crown, to ride a white horse, and sundry other trumperies."

The Count looked at Dumiger while he applied the word trumperies to those results which the
latter had so impatiently striven for,--for which he had been laboring night and day. These
outward signs of the results of great ambition,--these to be called trumperies! Dumiger looked
at the Count with astonishment.

"And yet," said he, "it is for such trumperies men sacrifice their lives, sometimes their characters."

The old Count colored slightly as he gave a glance at the riband and star which he wore. Men
did sometimes say that the Grand Master had not obtained all his honors without sundry sacrifices
of one kind and another. Dumiger had not intended any allusion to these rumors, and he was
surprised at the Count's change of color, for which, at the moment, he was unable to assign
a reason.

"Well," said the Count hesitatingly, "as you say you prefer Marguerite's love even to your
ambition, let us suppose, that in one moment you were able to attain certain wealth, to place
her in a position worthy of her high qualities, to be at once on an equality with those of
her fellow-citizens, who have hitherto--pardon me the word--treated her as an inferior; let
us suppose that by some extraordinary powers all this could be immediately realized;--then
let me ask you, would you sacrifice your clock?"

Dumiger marveled as he listened. He pictured Marguerite adorned with all those incidents which
lend a new charm even to beauty like hers. He thought, with that vanity which clings to all
men,--he thought if she were so much admired in her rustic dress, what would she be if she
could rival in luxury and grace the chief ladies of Dantzic? He looked round the room; and
instead of the rudely-carved, worn-out chairs, he pictured the most graceful and luxurious
sofas; instead of two small, and, in spite of all Marguerite's taste and exertion, rather dusty
and ungraceful-looking rooms, a suite of magnificent apartments, where he could gratify every
taste and find people willing to come and applaud it. All this passed through his mind, and
he did not perceive how curiously the Count was regarding him; but at last Dumiger was recalled
to himself, and he thought how little occasion there was for him to draw such pictures, as
they could never be realized; and why should he annoy himself by considering this proposition,
which could only be made to him in joke.

"But why," he said to the count, "do you make me such a suggestion, when I can never hope to
obtain this?"

The Count paused a moment, as though to examine Dumiger's countenance still more attentively,
and then said,--

"You shall obtain this wealth, and much more."

"I!" exclaimed Dumiger, with astonishment.

"Yes," said the Count; "at a great price, I know; at a price, however, which I think you will
still be willing to pay for it--for your clock."

"My clock worth that!" said Dumiger, "who will give it to me?"

It was the first time that Dumiger had tested, by the opinion of another, the value of the
great work which he had achieved, and it gratified him to hear the magnificent offer.

"I," said the Count, "I will give you all that I have said; nay, more, I will use all my influence
to have you placed high on the great book of the citizens. You shall have everything to make
life happy. Give me the clock; sign me a paper, making over this clock to me; declaring, at
the same time, that it is your free act and deed, and that you never completed it, and I will
immediately settle that fortune upon you."

"And yet my clock," thought Dumiger; "all the honors I have anticipated, the gratification
of my ambition, that greatness I have dreamed of; can I forget all this?"

He was about to reply, when the door opened and Marguerite entered. The length of time that
the conversation lasted had made her impatient; besides, she mistrusted the Count.

He looked annoyed at her appearance, for he imagined that Dumiger was on the point of acceding
to his terms.

"Marguerite, I am so rejoiced you have come!" exclaimed Dumiger, as though a sudden light had
burst upon him. "The Lord Count has offered to buy my clock, and to make us rich beyond all
expectation; to have us placed high among the first class of the citizens; in fact to enable
us at once to secure all that men pass their lifetimes in striving to attain, if I will give
up my clock and declare that I failed in its execution. What do you say, Marguerite?"

"What do I say!" she exclaimed, and as she spoke she drew herself up to her full height, her
brow contracted, the color glowed in her cheek. "And did you hesitate what reply to make?"

"I thought of you, Marguerite."

"Of me!" she replied. "Oh, do not think of me; or rather if you do so, think that I would sooner
live in the most abject poverty, and suffer any amount of privation, than part with the work,
the consummation of which will be the glory of your life. Part with your clock! no, I would
sooner sell this hair which you so prize, part with all those qualities which render me dear
to you; nay more, I think I would even be content to sacrifice your love rather than see all
the results of your patient industry wasted, your noble ambition sacrificed. Think of me, dear
Dumiger, but think of me only as a part of yourself, as one who would give up every hope and
every future to secure your happiness, that is, your fame."

Dumiger rose from his seat, unmindful in whose presence he stood, he pressed Marguerite in
his arms; again the nobility of his mind brightened in his eye and beamed over his countenance.
It was another instance amid the thousand which, unknown to them, were passing around them
of a man won to noble thoughts by a woman's influence, proving that she is the animating power
to save him in all his difficulties; that she invokes and renews all those noble thoughts which
are concealed in the recesses of his mind. Hers is the light to dispel the mists which the
chill atmosphere of the world hangs around the brightest portions of the mind: great at all
times, greatest of all when, in a moment of difficulty, she is called upon to decide between
the good and the evil, the just and the unjust, the generous and the mean, the ingenuous and
the sophistical; and Marguerite, in one glance, saw all that Dumiger had failed to discover
in the Count's appearance and manner,--the dark design, the selfish calculation; her simplicity
of mind perceived indications of low, mean purposes, which he failed to discern. Thus it is
ever that the first impressions, and, above all other first impressions, the impressions of
innocence and youth, are the truest and most to be depended on.

For wherein is it that men--so often men of the shrewdest intelligence and keenest intellect--deceive
themselves by their own egregious vanity.--by that vanity which makes them prefer to depend
on the refinements and subtle processes of their own intelligence, rather than on the first
impressions of the mind which Heaven has bestowed upon them? They are not satisfied with perceiving
that a thing is good, but they must learn why it is so. They are not satisfied with knowing
that the world is beautiful, that the harmony of this globe and its planets is admirable, but
they must know the origin of this beauty, and the cause of the harmony which strikes them with
wonder. It is not enough for them to be told they are "fearfully and wonderfully made," but
they must attend schools to learn why they live, move, and have their being. Such is man, blinded
by his self-conceit; blasted not by the excess, but by the partial light which bursts upon
him: whereas woman moves clear in her apprehension, because she believes that "whatever is,
is right;" and great in her intelligence, because she knows she is ignorant.

The count saw that all further appeals to Dumiger's interest would now be thrown away, but
he was not on that account to be baffled.

"Very well, sir," he said, in an angry voice; "I make you the greatest offer that was ever
made to any workman in this city, and you reject it with contempt. The day will come when you
shall repent it. I would have saved you for that woman's sake, from the distress and ruin which
are impending over you, but you will not be free. Look to it, sir, for there is danger even
now. Your success is not so certain. I have it in my power to crush you, and your pride shall
be broken."

So saying he took up the rouleau of gold he had given to Marguerite and departed. Dumiger and
Marguerite stood side by side, alarmed, but still unbending; and yet the man who spoke to them
was of great power. To recite his titles once more:--Grand Master of the Teutonic Knights,
President of the City Council; magnificent in his promise, fierce in his resentments, unscrupulous
in his means. For a moment Dumiger looked at Marguerite as though he were disposed to yield
to the tyranny of that great man, but a glance from her reassured him; and it was with a low
but formal reverence that he opened the door to the illustrious visitor, while Marguerite stood
proud, haughty, and reserved.

"Did we do wisely?" said Dumiger, when the door closed upon them.

"Wisely!" exclaimed Marguerite; "oh, Dumiger, can you doubt it? I feel myself worthier of you
now that I was able to influence you in your moment of uncertainty. I say moment, for I will
not believe that, upon reflection, you could have hesitated in your decision. Better risk all
and lose all than sacrifice the glorious object which you have in view. Who would not prefer
the greatness which must be yours, if you succeed? and the count has at least taught us one
thing, that success is almost certain,--who would not prefer this to that wealth of which he
is so proud, and that eminence which it makes him giddy to stand on? No, Dumiger, you were
in the right; and come what may, you will feel proud of your decision and self-denial."

"It was you who decided for me," replied Dumiger, as he pressed her lips fondly to his own.

He toiled throughout the day, and the dusk was settling over the town when the last wheel was
finished and the clock was completed.

CHAPTER IV.

