Bona, in her simple peasant station, exhibited intelligence, decision of character, and personal
beauty, which raised her to a certain consideration in the estimation of her companions; and
the neighborhood boasted of the beauty of Bona when an incident occurred which was to raise
her to a most unexpected rank. In the war between the Duke of Milan and the Venetians, the
latter had been routed and driven from Vattellina. Piccinino, the Milanese general, upon departing
to follow up his advantages, left Captain Brunoro, a Parmesan gentleman, to maintain a camp
in Morbegno, as a central position, to maintain the conquered country. One day, after a hunting
party, he stopped to repose himself, in a grove where many of the peasants were assembled for
some rustic festival; he was greatly struck with the loveliness of a girl of about fifteen.
Upon entering into conversation with her, he was surprised at the ingenuity and spirited tone
of her replies. Speaking of the adventure on his return home, every body told him that Bona
Lombardi had acknowledged claims to admiration.

Brunoro, remaining through the summer in that district, found many opportunities of seeing
the fair peasant; becoming acquainted with her worth and character, he at last determined to
make her the companion of his life; their marriage was not declared at first, but, to prevent
a separation, however temporary, Bona was induced to put on the dress of an officer. Her husband
delighted in teaching her horsemanship, together with all military exercises. She accompanied
him in battle, fought by his side, and, regardless of her own safety, seemed to be merely an
added arm to shield and assist Brunoro. As was usual in those times, among the condottieri,
Brunoro adopted different lords, and fought sometimes in parties to which, at others, he was
opposed. In these vicissitudes, he incurred the anger of the King of Naples, who, seizing him
by means of an ambuscade, plunged him into a dungeon, where he would probably have finished
his days, but for the untiring and well-planned efforts of his wife. To effect his release,
she spared no means; supplications, threats, money, all were employed, and, at last, with good
success. She had the happiness of recovering her husband.

Bona was not only gifted with the feminine qualities of domestic affection and a well-balanced
intellect; in the hottest battles, her bravery and power of managing her troops were quite
remarkable; of these feats there are many instances recorded. We will mention but one. In the
course of the Milanese war, the Venetians had been, on one occasion, signally discomfited in
an attack upon the Castle of Povoze, in Brescia. Brunoro himself was taken prisoner, and carried
into the castle. Bona arrived with a little band of fresh soldiers; she rallied the routed
forces, inspired them with new courage, led them on herself, took the castle, and liberated
her husband, with the other prisoners. She was, however, destined to lose her husband without
possibility of recovering him; he died in 1468. When this intrepid heroine, victor in battles,
and, rising above all adversity, was bowed by a sorrow resulting from affection, she declared
she could not survive Brunoro. She caused a tomb to be made, in which their remains could be
united; and, after seeing the work completed, she gradually sank into a languid state, which
terminated in her death.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 9: From Mrs. Hale's Female Biography.]

A SKETCH OF MY CHILDHOOD.

BY THE "ENGLISH OPIUM-EATER."

SEPTEMBER 21, 1850.

To the Editor of Hogg's "Instructor." How? Could it be exhausted so soon? Had I read Milton,
had I seen Rome, had I heard Mozart? No. The "Paradise Lost" was yet unread, the Coliseum and
St. Peter's were unseen, the melodies of Don Giovanni were yet silent for me. But one extract
from the closing sections of the paper I shall make; in order to describe the depth to which
a child's heart may be plowed up by one over-mastering storm of grief, and as a proof that
grief, in some of its fluctuations, is not uniformly a depressing passion--but also by possibility
has its own separate aspirations, and at times is full of cloudy grandeur. The point of time
is during the months that immediately succeeded to my sister's funeral. I wearied the heavens
with my inquest of beseeching looks. I tormented the blue depths with obstinate scrutiny, sweeping
them with my eyes, and searching them forever, after one angelic face, that might perhaps have
permission to reveal itself for a moment. It was a church on the old and natural model of England,
having aisles, galleries, organ, all things ancient and venerable, and the proportions majestic.

The next (which was the second) chapter of my childish experience, formed that sort of fierce
and fantastic contradiction to the first, which might seem to move in obedience to some incarnate
principle of malicious pantomime. A spirit of love, and a spirit of rest, as if breathing from
St. John the Evangelist, had seemed to mould the harmonies of that earliest stage in my childhood
which had just vanished; but now, on the other hand, some wicked Harlequin Mephistopheles was
apparently commissioned to vex my eyes and plague my heart, through the next succession of
two or three years: a worm was at the roots of life. Yet, in this, perhaps, there lurked a
harsh beneficence. If, because the great vision of love had vanished, idiocy and the torpor
of despondency were really creeping stealthily over my faculties, and strangling their energies,
what better change for me than the necessity (else how miserable!) of fighting, wrangling,
struggling, without pause, or promise of pause, from day to day, or even from year to year?
"If," as my good angel might have said to me, "thou art moving on a line of utter ruin, from
mere palsy of one great vital force, and if that loss is past all restoration, then kindle
a new supplementary life by such means as are now possible--by the agitations, for instance,
of strife and conflict"--yes, possible, on the wide stage of the world, and for people who
should be free agents enough to make enemies, in case they failed to find them; but for a child,
not seven years old, to whom his medical advisers should prescribe a course of hatred, or continued
hostilities, by way of tonics, in what quarter was he to look out for such luxuries? Who would
condescend to officiate as enemy to a child! And yet, as regarded my own particular case, had
I breathed out any such querulous demand, that same Harlequin Mephistopheles might have whispered
in reply, "Never you trouble yourself about that. Do you furnish the patience that can swallow
cheerfully a long course of kicking, and I'll find those that shall furnish the kicks." In
fact, at this very moment, when all chance of quarrel, or opening for prolonged enmity, seemed
the remotest of chimeras, mischief was already in the wind; and suddenly there was let loose
upon me such a storm of belligerent fury as might, under good management, have yielded a life-annuity
of feuds.

I had at that time an elder brother, in fact, the eldest of us all, and at least five years
senior to myself. He, by original temperament, was a boy of fiery nature, ten times more active
than I was inert, loving the element of feuds and stormy conflict more (if that were possible)
than I detested it; and these constitutional tendencies had in him been nursed by the training
of a public school. This accident in his life was indeed the cause of our now meeting as strangers.
Singular, indeed, it seems, but, in fact, had arisen naturally enough, that both this eldest
of my brothers, and my father, should be absolute strangers to me in my seventh year; so that,
in the case of meeting either, I should not have known him, nor he me. From this brief childish
experience of his nature and disposition, the chief conclusion which I drew tended to this--that
he was the most benignant person whom I had met, or was likely to meet, in life. What I have
since heard from others, who knew him well, tallied with my own childish impression. His life
had been too busy to allow him much time for regular study; but he loved literature with a
passionate love; had formed a large and well-selected library; had himself published a book,
which I have read, and which really is not a bad one; and carried his reverence for distinguished
authors to such a height, that (according to the report, of several among his friends) had
either Dr. Johnson, or Cowper, the poet--the two contemporary authors whom most he reverenced--happened
to visit Greenhay, he might have been tempted to express his homage through the Pagan fashion
of raising altars and burning incense, or of sacrificing, if not an ox, yet, at least, a baron
of beef. The latter mode of idolatry Dr. Sam, would have approved, provided always that the
nidor were irreproachable, and that the condiments of mustard, horse-radish, &c., more Anglico,
were placed on the altar; but as to Cowper, who was in the habit of tracing Captain Cooke's
death at Owyhee to the fact that the misjudging captain had once suffered himself to be worshiped
at one of the Society Islands, in all consistency, he must have fled from such a house with
sacred horror. Why I have at all gone back to this little parenthesis in my childhood is, from
the singularity that I should remember my father at all, only because I had received all my
impressions about him into the very centre of my preconceptions about certain grand objects--about
the Tropics, about summer evenings, and about some mysterious glory of the grave. It seems
metaphysical to say so, but yet it is true that I knew him, speaking scholastically, through
à priori ideas--I remember him transcendenter--and, were it not for the midsummer night's dream
which glorified his return, to me he would have remained forever that absolute stranger, which,
according to the prosaic interpretation of the case, he really was. I doated on being despised;
and considered contempt the sincerest a sort of luxury, that I was in continual fear of losing.
I lived in a panic, lest I should be suspected of shamming contemptibility. But I did not sham
it. I trusted that I was really entitled to contempt; and, for this, I had some metaphysical-looking
reasons, which there may be occasion to explain further on. But I put a stop to this villainy.
"Pooh!" he said, "they are impostors; they pretend to do it, but they can't do it as it ought
to be done. Ah! you should see me standing upright on the ceiling, with my head downward, for
half-an-hour together, and meditating profoundly." My second sister remarked, that we should
all be very glad to see him in that position. As it was not, he changed his plan. "Certainly,"
my sister replied, whose skepticism, in fact, had not settled upon the five months, but altogether
upon the five minutes. He could chant: he had a right to chant: he had a right, perhaps, to
chant "Te Deum." For if he ran away every day of his life, what then? Sometimes the enemy mustered
in over-powering numbers--seventy, or even ninety strong. Now, if there is a time for every
thing in this world, surely that was the time for running away. But in the mean time I must
pause, reserving what has to follow for another occasion.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 10: Elsewhere, viz., in the introductory part of the "Suspiria de Profundis," published
in "Blackwood," during the early part of the year 1845.

Let the reader accompany us half-a-dozen miles out of town. We pass through Camberwell, through
Peckham, and Peckham Rye, and we presently find ourselves in a district that looks uncommonly
like "the country," considering how short a time it is since we left the "old smoke" behind
us. We alight and walk onward, and certainly, if the sight of green fields, and cows, and hedges,
and farm-yards, denote the country, we are undoubtedly in some region of the kind.

We pass down a winding road, between high hedges of bush and trees, then climb over a gate
into a field; cross it, and then over another gate into a field, from which we commence a gradual
ascent, field after field, till finally the green slope leads us to a considerable height.
We are on the top of Friern Hill.

It is a bright sunny morning in September, and we behold to perfection the most complete panorama
that can be found in the suburban vicinities of London. Step down with us to yonder hedge,
a little below the spot where we have been standing. We approach the hedge--we get over a gate,
and we suddenly find ourselves on the upper part of an enormous green sloping pasturage, covered
all over with cows. The red cow, the white cow, the brown cow, the brindled cow, the colley
cow, the dappled cow, the streaked cow, the spotted cow, the liver-and-white cow, the strawberry
cow, the mulberry cow, the chestnut cow, the gray speckled cow, the clouded cow, the black
cow,--the short-horned cow, the long-horned cow, the up-curling horn, the down-curling horn,
the straight-horned cow, and the cow with the crumpled horn--all are here--between two and
three hundred--spread all over the broad, downward sloping pasture, feeding, ruminating, standing,
lying, gazing with mild earnestness, reclining in characteristic thoughtfulness, sleeping,
or wandering hither and thither. A soft gleam of golden sunshine spreads over the pasture,
and falls upon many of the cows with a lovely, picturesque effect.

And what cows they are, as we approach and pass among them! Studies for a Morland, a Gainsborough,
a Constable. We had never before thought there were any such cows out of their pictures. That
they were highly useful, amiable, estimable creatures, who continually, at the best, appeared
to be mumbling grass in a recumbent position, and composing a sonnet, we never doubted; but
that they were ever likely to be admired for their beauty, especially when beheld, as many
as these were, from a disadvantageous point of view, as to their position, we never for a moment
suspected. Such, however, is the case. We have lived to see beauty in the form of a cow--a
natural, modern, milch cow, and no descendant from any Ovidian metamorphosis.

We will now descend this broad and populous slope, and pay a visit to Friern Manor Dairy Farm,
to which all these acres--some two hundred and fifty--belong, together with all these "horned
beauties." We find them all very docile, and undisturbed by our presence, though their looks
evidently denote that they recognize a stranger. But those who are reclining do not rise, and
none of them decline to be caressed by the hand, or seem indifferent to the compliments addressed
to them. In passing through the cows we were specially presented to the cow queen, or "master
cow," as she is called. This lady has been recognized during twelve years as the sovereign
ruler over all the rest. No one, however large, disputes her supremacy. She is a short-horned,
short-legged cow, looking at first sight rather small, but on closer examination you will find
that she is sturdily and solidly built, though graceful withal. "She is very sweet-tempered,"
observed the head keeper, "but when a new-comer doubts about who is the master, her eye becomes
dreadful. Don't signify how big the other cow is--she must give in to the master cow. It's
not her size, nor strength, bless you, it's her spirit. As soon as the question is once settled,
she's as mild as a lamb again. Gives us eighteen quarts of milk a day."

We were surprised to hear of so great a quantity, but this was something abated by a consideration
of the rich, varied, and abundant supply of food afforded to these cows, besides the air, attendance,
and other favorable circumstances. For their food they have mangold-wurtzel, both the long
red and the orange globe sorts, parsnips, turnips, and kohl-rabi (Jewish cabbage), a curious
kind of green turnip, with cabbage leaves sprouting out of the top all round, like the feathery
arms of the Prince of Wales. Of this last mentioned vegetable the cows often eat greedily;
and sometimes endeavoring to bolt too large a piece, it sticks in their throats and threatens
strangulation. On these occasions, one of the watchful keepers rushes to the rescue with a
thing called a pro bang (in fact a cow's throat ramrod), with which he rams down the obstructive
morsel. But, besides these articles of food, there is the unlimited eating of grass in the
pastures, so that the yield of a large quantity of milk seems only a matter of course, though
we were not prepared to hear of its averaging from twelve to eighteen and twenty quarts of
milk a day, from each of these two or three hundred cows. Four-and-twenty quarts a day is not
an unusual occurrence from some of the cows; and one of them, we were assured by several of
the keepers, once yielded the enormous quantity of twenty-eight quarts a day during six or
seven weeks. The poor cow, however, suffered for this munificence, for she was taken very ill
with a fever, and her life was given over by the doctor. Mr. Wright, the proprietor, told us
that he sat up two nights with her himself, he had such a respect for the cow; and in the morning
of the second night after she was given over, when the butcher came for her, he couldn't find
it in his heart to let him have her. "No, butcher," said he, "she's been a good friend to me,
and I'll let her die a quiet, natural death." She hung her head, and her horns felt very cold,
and so she lay for some time longer; but he nursed her, and was rewarded, for she recovered;
and there she stands--the strawberry Durham short-horn--and yields him again from sixteen to
eighteen quarts of milk a day.

Reverting to the "master cow," we inquired whether her supremacy in the case of newcomers was
established "mesmerically" by a glance--or how? The eye, we were assured, had a great deal
to do with it. The stranger cow read it, and trembled. But, sometimes, there was a contest;
and a cow-fight, with such fresh strong creatures as these--all used to their full liberty,
and able to run or leap well, was a serious affair. If no keeper was at hand to separate them,
and the fight got serious, so that one of them fell wounded, it was a chance but the whole
herd would surround the fallen cow, and kill her. This was not out of wickedness, but something
in the whole affair that put them beside themselves, and they couldn't bear the horrid sight,
and so tried to get rid of their feelings, as well as the unfortunate object, by this wild
violence. The effect was the same if the herd did not witness the fight, but came suddenly
to the discovery of blood that had been spilled. They would stare at it, and glare at it, and
snuff down at it, and sniff up at it, and prowl round it--and get more and more excited, till,
at last, the whole herd would begin to rush about the field bellowing and mad, and make nothing
at last of leaping clean over hedges, fences, and five-barred gates. But, strange to say--if
the blood they found had not been spilt by violence, but only from some cause which the "horned
beauties" understood, such as a sister or aunt having been bled by the doctor--then no effect
of the sort occurred. They took no notice of it.

We found that besides beauty, cows possessed some imagination, and were, moreover, very susceptible.
The above excitement and mad panic sometimes occurs as the effect of other causes.

Once some boys brought a great kite into the field, with a pantomime face painted upon it;
and directly this began to rise over the field, and the cows looked up at it, and saw the great
glass eyes of the face looking down at them--then, oh! oh! what a bellowing! and away they
rushed over each other, quite frantic. On another occasion, some experimental gentlemen of
science, brought a fire-balloon near the pasturage one night after dark. It rose. Up started
all the cows in a panic, and round and round they rushed, till, finally, the whole herd made
a charge at one of the high fences--tore down and overleaped every thing--burst into the lanes--and
made their way into the high-road, and seemed to intend to leave their owners for some state
of existence where fire-balloons and horrid men of science were alike unknown.

Instead of proceeding directly down the sloping fields toward the Dairy Farm, we made a detour
of about half a mile, and passed through a field well inclosed, in which were about a dozen
cows, attended by one man, who sat beneath a tree. This was the Quarantine ground. All newly-purchased
cows, however healthy they may appear, are first placed in this field during four or five weeks,
and the man who milks or attends upon them is not permitted to touch, nor, indeed, to come
near, any of the cows in the great pasture. Such is the susceptibility of a cow to the least
contamination, that if one who had any slight disease were admitted among the herd, in a very
short time the whole of them would be affected. When the proprietor has been to purchase fresh
stock, and been much among strange cows, especially at Smithfield, he invariably changes all
his clothes, and, generally takes a bath, before he ventures among his own herd.

From what has already been seen, the reader will not be astonished on his arrival with us at
the Dairy Farm, to find every arrangement in accordance with the fine condition of the cows,
and the enviable (to all other cows) circumstances in which they live. The cow-sheds are divided
into fifty stalls, each; and the appearance presented reminded one of the neatness and order
of cavalry stables. Each stall is marked with a number; a corresponding number is marked on
one horn of the cow to whom it belongs; and, in winter time, or any inclement season (for they
all sleep out in fine weather) each cow deliberately finds out, and walks into her own stall.
No. 173 once got into the stall of No. 15; but, in a few minutes, No. 15 arrived, and "showed
her the difference." In winter, when the cows are kept very much in-doors, they are all regularly
groomed with currycombs. By the side of one of these sheds there is a cottage where the keepers
live--milkers and attendants--each with little iron bedsteads, all in orderly soldier fashion,
the foreman's wife acting as the housekeeper.

These men lead a comfortable life, but they work hard. The first "milking" begins at eleven
o'clock at night; and the second, at half past one in the morning. It takes a long time, for
each cow insists upon being milked in her own pail--i.e., a pail to herself, containing no
milk of any other cow--or, if she sees it, she is very likely to kick it over. She will not
allow of any mixture. In this there would seem a strange instinct, accordant with her extreme
susceptibility to contamination.

The milk is all passed through several strainers, and then placed in great tin cans, barred
across the top, and sealed. They are deposited in a van, which starts from the Farm about three
in the morning, and arrives at the dairy, in Farringdon-street, between three and four. The
seals are then carefully examined, and taken off by a clerk. In come the carriers, commonly
called "milkmen," all wearing the badge of Friern Farm Dairy; their tin pails are filled, fastened
at top, and sealed as before, and away they go on their early rounds, to be in time for the
early-breakfast people. The late-breakfasts are provided by a second set of men.

Such are the facts we have ascertained with regard to one of the largest of the great dairy
farms near London.

SAILING IN THE AIR.--HISTORY OF AERONAUTICS.

Aeronautics, or the art of sailing in the air, is of very modern date; if, indeed, we are warranted
to say that the art has yet been acquired, for we have only got a machine or apparatus capable
of sustaining some hundreds of pounds in the air, the means of guiding and propelling it having
yet to be discovered. The attention and admiration of men would doubtless be attracted from
the beginning to the ease, grace, and velocity with which the feathered race soar aloft, and
wing their way in the upper regions; but there is no reason to believe that any of the nations
of antiquity--not even Greece and Rome, with all their progress in science and art--ever made
the smallest advances toward a discovery of a method of flying, or of aerial navigation.

Archytas of Tarentum, a celebrated Pythagorean philosopher, who flourished about four hundred
years before the Christian era, is indeed said to have constructed a wooden flying pigeon;
but, from the imperfect accounts transmitted to us of its machinery, there is every probability
that its flight was one of the many deceptions of the magic art which the ancients so well
understood and so expertly practiced. The attention of man was much earlier, as well as more
earnestly and successfully turned to the art of navigating lakes, rivers, and seas. To gratify
his curiosity, or to better his condition, he was prompted to emigrate, or to pass from one
place to another, and thus he would tax his ingenuity to discover the means by which he might
be enabled to accomplish his journey. To make the atmosphere the medium of transit, would,
in the early stages of society, hardly strike the mind at all, or, if it did, it would only
strike it as a physical impossibility. Nature has not supplied man with wings, as it has done
the fowls of heaven, and to find a locomotive means of transportation through the air was in
the infancy of all science absolutely hopeless. But advantage would be early taken of the buoyant
property of water, particularly of the sea, which must have been known to mankind from the
creation. The canoe and the raft would be first constructed, and, in the course of time, experience
would teach men to build vessels of a larger size, to fix the rudder to the stern, to erect
the mast, and unfurl the sails. Thus would the art of navigating the ocean advance from step
to step, while the art navigating the air remained a mystery, practiced, it may be, by flying
demons, and flying witches, and the like ethereal beings of a dark mythology, but an achievement
to which ordinary mortals could make no pretensions.

Our object in this paper is to give a concise history of aeronautics, commencing at that period
when something like an approach was made to the principles upon which the art could be reduced
to practice.

The person who is entitled to the honor of the discovery of the main principle of aeronautics--atmospheric
buoyancy--is Roger Bacon, an English monk of the thirteenth century. This eminent man, whose
uncommon genius was, in that superstitious and ignorant age, ascribed to his intercourse with
the devil, was aware that the air is a material of some consistency, capable, like the ocean,
of bearing vessels on its surface; and, in one of his works, he particularly describes the
construction of a machine by which he believed it was possible to navigate the air. It is a
large, thin, hollow globe of copper, or other suitable metal, which he proposes to fill with
"ethereal air or liquid fire," and then to launch from some elevated point into the atmosphere,
when he supposes it will float on its surface, like a vessel on the water. But, though Bacon
knew the buoyancy of the atmosphere, he was very imperfectly acquainted with its properties.
His idea seems to have been, that the boundaries of the atmosphere are at no great height,
and that the aerial vessel, in order to its being borne up, must be placed on the surface of
the air, just as a ship, in order to its being supported, must be placed on the surface of
the water. And, whatever may be meant by his "ethereal air and liquid fire," there is no evidence
that he, or any one living in that age, had any knowledge of the various and distinct gases.
Bacon merely reasoned and theorized on the subject; he never attempted to realize these flying
projects by actual experiment.

It was not till the year 1782 that the art of aerial navigation was discovered, and the merit
of the discovery is due to two brothers, wealthy paper manufacturers, at Annonay, not far from
Lyons--Stephen and Joseph Montgolfier. This discovery they did not arrive at from any scientific
reasoning founded on the elasticity and weight of the atmosphere, for, though attached to the
study of mathematics and chemistry, they do not appear to have particularly turned their attention
to aerostatics; but, from observing how clouds and smoke rise and float in the atmosphere,
it occurred to Stephen, the younger of the two, that a light paper bag, filled with cloud or
smoke, would, from the natural tendency of these substances to ascend, be carried by their
force in an upward direction.

About the middle of November, 1782, they made their first experiment in their own chamber at
Avignon, with a light paper bag of an oblong shape, which they inflated, by applying burning
paper to an orifice in the lower part of the bag, and in a few minutes they had the satisfaction
of seeing it ascend to the ceiling of the chamber. Constructing a paper bag of larger dimensions,
they made a similar experiment in the open air, with equal success, and, the bag being of a
spherical shape, they gave it the name of balloon, from its resemblance to a large, round,
short-necked, chemical vessel so called. Finding, from repeated trials, that the larger the
balloon the more successful was the experiment, they proceeded to construct one of linen lined
with paper, 35 feet in diameter; and, on the 25th of April, 1783, after being filled with rarified
air, it rapidly rose to the height of 1000 feet, and fell to the ground at the distance of
three-quarters of a mile from the spot where it ascended. Encouraged by this success, the Montgolfiers
came to the resolution of making a public experiment with this last constructed balloon at
Annonay, on the 5th of June following. It was inflated with heated air, by the lower orifice
being placed over a pit or well, in which were burned chopped straw and wool. Two men were
sufficient to fill it; but, when fully inflated, eight men were required to prevent it from
ascending. On being released from its fastenings, it rose majestically to the height of six
or seven thousand feet, and made its descent at the distance of a mile and a half from the
point of its departure.

