REMONENCQ, an Auvergnat, dealer in old iron, established on rue de Normandie, in the house
in which Pons and Schmucke lived, and where the Cibots were porters. He lived there in sordid
economy. He had been in Sylvain Pons's house, and had fully recognized the great value of the
aged collector's treasures. His greed urged him to crime, and he instigated Madame Cibot in
her theft at the Pons house. After receiving his share of the property, he poisoned the husband
of the portress, in order to marry the widow, with whom he established a curiosity shop in
an excellent building on the Boulevard de la Madeleine. About 1846 he unwittingly poisoned
himself with a glass of vitriol, which he had placed near his wife. [Cousin Pons.]

REMONENCQ (Mademoiselle), sister of the preceding, "a kind of idiot with a vacant stare, dressed
like a Japanese idol." She was her brother's house-keeper. In this house the musicians, Pons
and Schmucke, lived. She busied herself for some time with the management of the house and
the cooking for these two celibates. At first she was faithful, but finally, moved by Remonencq,
and encouraged by Fontaine, the necromancer, she robbed the ill-fated Pons. Her husband having
been poisoned, without her knowledge, by Remonencq, she married the second-hand dealer, now
a dealer in curiosities, and proprietor of the beautiful shop on the Boulevard de la Madeleine.
She survived her second husband. [Cousin Pons.]

REMY (Jean), peasant of Arcis-sur-Aube, against whom a neighbor lost a lawsuit concerning a
boundary line. This neighbor, who was given to drink, used strong language in speaking against
Jean Remy in a session of the electors who had organized in the interest of Dorlange-Sallenauve,
a candidate, in the month of April, 1839. If we may believe this neighbor, Jean Remy was a
wife-beater, and had a daughter who had obtained, through the influence of a deputy, and apparently
without any claim, an excellent tobacco-stand on rue Mouffetard. [The Member for Arcis.]

RENARD, former captain in the Imperial army, withdrew to Issoudun during the Restoration; one
of the officers in the Faubourg de Rome, who were hostile to the "pekins" and partisans of
Maxence (Max) Gilet. Renard and Commandant Potel were seconds for Maxence in his duel with
Philippe Bridau--a duel which resulted in the former's death. [A Bachelor's Establishment.]

RENARD, regimental quartermaster in the cavalry, 1812. Although educated as a notary he became
an under officer. He had the face of a girl and was considered a "wheedler." He saved the life
of his friend, Genestas, several times, but enticed away from him a Polish Jewess, whom he
loved, married in Sarmatian fashion, and left enceinte. When fatally wounded in the battle
against the Russians, just before the battle of Lutzen, in his last hours, to Genestas, he
acknowledged having betrayed the Jewess, and begged this gentleman to marry her and claim the
child, which would soon be born. This was done by the innocent officer. Renard was the son
of a Parisian wholesale grocer, a "toothless shark," who would not listen to anything concerning
the quartermaster's offspring. [The Country Doctor.]

RENARD (Madame). (See Genestas, Madame.)

RENARD (Adrien). (See Genestas, Adrien.)

RENE, the only servant to M. du Bousquier of Alencon, in 1816; a silly Breton servant, who,
although very greedy, was perfectly reliable. [Jealousies of a Country Town.]

RESTAUD (Comte de), a man whose sad life was first brought to the notice of Barchou de Penhoen,
a school-mate of Dufaure and Lambert; born about 1780; husband of Anastasie Goriot, by whom
he was ruined; died in December, 1824, while trying to adjust matters favorably for his eldest
son, Ernest, the only one of Madame de Restaud's three children whom he recognized as his own.
To this end he had pretended that, having been very extravagant, he was greatly in debt to
Gobseck. He assured his son by another letter of the real condition of his estate. M. de Restaud,
was similar in appearance to the Duc de Richelieu, and had the proud manners of the statesman
of the aristocratic faubourg. [Gobseck. Father Goriot.]

RESTAUD (Comtesse Anastasie de), wife of the preceding; elder daughter of the vermicelli-maker,
Jean-Joachim Goriot; a beautiful brunette of queenly bearing and manners. Like the fair and
gentle Madame de Nucingen, her sister, she showed herself severe and ungrateful towards the
kindliest and weakest of fathers. She had three children, two boys and a girl; Ernest, the
eldest, being the only legitimate one. She ruined herself for Trailles, her lover's benefit,
selling her jewels to Gobseck and endangering her children's future. As soon as her husband
had breathed his last, in a moment anxiously awaited, she took from under his pillow and burned
the papers which she believed contrary to her own interests and those of her two natural children.
It thus followed that Gobseck, the fictitious creditor, gained a claim on all of the remaining
property. [Gobseck. Father Goriot.]

RESTAUD (Ernest de), eldest child of the preceding, and their only legitimate one, as the other
two were natural children of Maxime de Trailles. In 1824, while yet a child, he received from
his dying father instruction to hand to Derville, the attorney, a sealed package which contained
his will; but Madame de Restaud, by means of her maternal authority, kept Ernest from carrying
out his promise. On attaining his majority, after his fortune had been restored to him by his
father's fictitious creditor, Gobseck, he married Camille de Grandlieu, who reciprocated his
love for her. As a result of this marriage Ernest de Restaud became connected with the Legitimists,
while his brother Felix, who had almost attained the position of minister under Louis Philippe,
followed the opposite party. [Gobseck. The Member for Arcis.]

RESTAUD (Madame Ernest de), born Camille de Grandlieu in 1813, daughter of the Vicomtesse de
Grandlieu. During the first years of Louis Philippe's reign, while very young, she fell in
love with and married Ernest de Restaud, who was then a minor. [Gobseck. The Member for Arcis.]

RESTAUD (Felix-Georges de), one of the younger children of the Comte and Comtesse de Restaud;
probably a natural son of Maxime de Trailles. In 1839, Felix de Restaud was chief secretary
to his cousin Eugene de Rastignac, minister of public works. [Gobseck. The Member for Arcis.]

RESTAUD (Pauline de), legal daughter of the Comte and Comtesse de Restaud, but probably the
natural daughter of Maxime de Trailles. We know nothing of her life. [Gobseck.]

REYBERT (De), captain in the Seventh regiment of artillery under the Empire; born in the Messin
country. During the Restoration he lived in Presles, Seine-et-Oise, with his wife and daughter,
on only six hundred francs pension. As a neighbor of Moreau, manager of the Comte de Serizy's
estate, he detected the steward in some extortions, and sending his wife to the count, denounced
the guilty man. He was chosen as Moreau's successor. Reybert married his daughter, without
furnishing her a dowry, to the wealthy farmer Leger. [A Start in Life.]

REYBERT (Madame de), born Corroy, in Messin, wife of the preceding, and like him of noble family.
Her face was pitted by small-pox until it looked like a skimmer; her figure was tall and spare;
her eyes were bright and clear; she was straight as a stick; she was a strict Puritan, and
subscribed to the Courrier Francais. She paid a visit to the Comte de Serizy, and unfolded
to him Moreau's extortions, thus obtaining for her husband the stewardship of Presles. [A Start
in Life.]

RHETORE (Duc Alphonse de), eldest son of the Duc and Duchess de Chaulieu, he became an ambassador
in the diplomatic service. For many years during the Restoration he kept Claudine Chaffaroux,
called Tullia, the star dancing-girl at the Opera, who married Bruel in 1824. He became acquainted
with Lucien de Rubempre, both in his own circle of acquaintance and in the world of gallantry,
and entertained him one evening in his box at a first performance at the Ambigu in 1821. He
reproached his guest for having wounded Chatelet and Madame de Bargeton by his newspaper satire,
and at the same time, while addressing him continually as Chardon, he counseled the young man
to become a Royalist, in order that Louis XVIII. might restore to him the title and name of
Rubempres, his maternal ancestors. The Duc de Rhetore, however, disliked Lucien de Rubempre,
and a little later at a performance in the Italiens, he traduced him to Madame de Serizy, who
was really in love with the poet. [Albert Savarus.] In 1839, he had a duel with Dorlange-Sallenauve,
having provoked the latter, by speaking in a loud voice, which he knew could be easily understood,
and slandering Marie Gaston, second husband of Dorlange's sister, Louise de Chaulieu. Dorlange
was wounded. [The Member for Arcis.]

RHETORE (Duchess de), born Francesca Soderini in 1802; a very beautiful and wealthy Florentine;
married, when very young, by her father, to the Duc d'Argaiolo, who was also very rich and
much older than herself. In Switzerland or Italy she became acquainted with Albert Savarus,
when, as a result of political events, she and her husband were proscribed and deprived of
their property. The Duchesse d'Argaiolo and Albert Savarus loved platonically, and Francesca-like
she promised her hand to her Francois whenever she should become a widow. In 1835, having been
widowed for some time, and, as a result of Rosalie de Watteville's plots, believing herself
forgotten and betrayed by Savarus, from whom she had received no news, she gave her hand to
the Duc de Rhetore, the ex-ambassador. The marriage took place in the month of May at Florence
and was celebrated with much pomp. The Duchesse d'Argaiolo is pictured under the name of the
Princesse Gandolphini in "L'Ambitieux par Amour," published in 1834 by the Revue de l'Est.
Under Louis Philippe, the Duchesse de Rhetore became acquainted with Mademoiselle de Watteville
at a charity entertainment. On their second meeting, which took place at the Opera ball, Mademoiselle
de Watteville revealed her own ill-doings and vindicated Savarus. [Albert Savarus.]

RICHARD (Veuve), a Nemours woman from whom Ursule Mirouet, afterwards Vicomtesse de Portenduere,
after the death of Doctor Minoret, her guardian, purchased a house to occupy. [Ursule Mirouet.]

RIDAL (Fulgence), dramatic author; member of the Cenacle, which held its sessions at D'Arthez's
home on rue des Quatre-Vents, during the Restoration. He disparaged Leon Giraud's beliefs,
went under a Rabelaisian guise, careless, lazy and skeptical, also inclined to be melancholy
and happy at the same time; nick-named by his friends the "Regimental Dog." Fulgence Ridal
and Joseph Bridau, with other members of the Cenacle, were present at an evening party given
by Madame Veuve Bridau, in 1819, to celebrate the return of her son Philippe from Texas. [A
Bachelor's Establishment. A Distinguished Provincial at Paris.] In 1845, having been a vaudevillist,
he was given the direction of a theatre in association with Lousteau. He had influencial government
friends. [The Unconscious Humorists.]

RIFFE, copying-clerk in the Financial Bureau, who had charge of the "personnel." [The Government
Clerks.]

RIFOOEL. (See Vissard, Chevalier du.)

RIGANSON, called Biffon, also Chanoine, constituted with La Biffe, his mistress, one of the
most important couples in his class of society. When a convict he met Jacques Collin, called
Vautrin, and in May, 1830, saw him once more at the Conciergerie, at the time of the judical
investigation succeeding Esther Gobseck's death. Riganson was short of stature, fat, and with
livid skin, and an eye black and sunken. [Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.]

RIGOU (Gregoire), born in 1756; at one time a Benedictine friar. Under the Republic he married
Arsene Pichard, only heir of the rich Cure Niseron. He became a money-lender; filled the office
of mayor of Blangy, Bourgogne, up to 1821, when he was succeeded by Montcornet. On the arrival
of the general in the country Rigou endeavored to be friendly with him, but having been quickly
slighted, he became one of the Montcornets' most dangerous enemies, along with Gaubertin, mayor
of Ville-aux-Fayes, and Soudry, mayor of Soulanges. This triumvirate succeeded in arousing
the peasants against the owner of Aigues, and the local citizens having become more or less
opposed to him, the general sold his property, and it fell to the three associates. Rigou was
selfish, avaricious but pleasure-loving; he looked like a condor. His name was often the subject
of a pun, and he was called Grigou (G. Rigou--a miserly man). "Deep as a monk, silent as a
Benedictine, crafty as a priest, this man would have been a Tiberius in Rome, a Richelieu under
Louis XIII. or a Fouche under the Convention." [The Peasantry.]

RIGOU (Madame), born Arsene Pichard, wife of the preceding, niece of a maid named Pichard,
who was house-keeper for Cure Niseron under the Revolution, and whom she succeeded as house-keeper.
She inherited, together with her aunt, some money from a wealthy priest. She was known while
young by the name of La Belle Arsene. She had great influence over the cure, although she could
neither read nor write. After her marriage with Rigou, she became the old Benedictine's slave.
She lost her Rubens-like freshness, her magical figure, her beautiful teeth and the lustre
of her eyes when she gave birth to her daughter, who eventually became the wife of Soudry (fils).
Madame Rigou quietly bore the continued infidelity of her husband, who always had pretty maids
in his household. [The Peasantry.]

RIVAUDOULT D'ARSCHOOT, of the Dulmen branch of a noted family of Galicia or Russie-Rouge; heirs,
through their grandfather, to this family, and also, in default of the direct heirs, successors
to the titles. [The Thirteen.]

RIVET (Achille), maker of lace and embroidery on rue des Mauvaises-Paroles, in the old Langeais
house, built by the illustrious family at the time when the greatest lords were clustered around
the Louvre. In 1815 he succeeded the Pons Brothers, embroiderers to the Court, and was judge
in the tribunal of commerce. He employed Lisbeth Fischer, and, despite their quarrel, rendered
this spinster some service. Achille Rivet worshiped Louis Philippe, who was to him the "noble
representative of the class out of which he constructed his dynasty." He loved the Poles less,
at the time they were preventing European equilibrium. He was willing to aid Cousin Betty in
the revenge against Wenceslas, which she once contemplated, as a result of her jealousy. [Cousin
Betty. Cousin Pons.]

ROBERT, a Paris restaurant-keeper, near Frascati. Early in 1822 he furnished a banquet lasting
nine hours, at the time of the founding of the Royalist journal, the "Reveil." Theodore Gaillard
and Hector Merlin, founders of the paper, Nathan and Lucien de Rubempre, Martainville, Auger,
Destains and many authors who "were responsible for monarchy and religion," were present. "We
have enjoyed an excellent monarchical and religious feast!" said one of the best known romanticists
as he stood on the threshold. This sentence became famous and appeared the next morning in
the "Miroir." Its repetition was wrongly attributed to Rubempre, although it had been reported
by a book-seller who had been invited to the repast. [A Distinguished Provincial at Paris.]

ROCHEFIDE (Marquis Arthur de), one of the later nobility; married through his father's instrumentality,
in 1828, Beatrix de Casteran, a descendant of the more ancient nobility. His father thought
that by doing this his son would obtain an appointment to the peerage, an honor which he himself
had vainly sought. The Comtesse de Montcornet was interested in this marriage. Arthur de Rochefide
served in the Royal Guards. He was a handsome man, but not especially worthy. He spent much
of his time at his toilet, and it was known that he wore a corset. He was everybody's friend,
as he joined in with the opinions and extravagances of everybody. His favorite amusement was
horse-racing, and he supported a journal devoted to the subject of horses. Having been deserted
by his wife, he mourned without becoming the object of ridicule, and passed for a "jolly, good
fellow." Made rich by the death of his father and of his elder sister, who was the wife of
D'Ajuda-Pinto, he inherited, among other things, a splendid mansion on rue d'Anjou-Saint-Honore.
He slept and ate there only occasionally and was very happy at not having the marital obligations
and expense customary with married men. At heart he was so well satisfied at having been deserted
by his wife, that he said to his friends, "I was born lucky." For a long time he supported
Madame Schontz, and then they lived together maritally. She reared his legitimate son as carefully
as though he were her own child. After 1840 she married Du Ronceret, and Arthur de Rochefide
was rejoined by his wife. He soon communicated to her a peculiar disease, which Madame Schontz,
angered at having been abandoned, had given to him, as well as to Baron Calyste du Guenic.
[Beatrix.] In 1838, Rochefide was present at the house-warming given by Josepha in her mansion
on rue de la Ville-l'Eveque. [Cousin Betty.]

ROCHEFIDE (Marquise de), wife of the preceding, younger daughter of the Marquis de Casteran;
born Beatrix-Maximilienne-Rose de Casteran, about 1808, in the Casteran Castle, department
of Orne. After being reared there she became the wife of the Marquis of Rochefide in 1828.
She was fair of skin, but a flighty vain coquette, without heart or brains--a second Madame
d'Espard, except for her lack of intelligence. About 1832 she left her husband to flee into
Italy with the musician, Gennaro Conti, whom she took from her friend, Mademoiselle des Touches.
Finally she allowed Calyste du Guenic to pay her court. She had met him also at her friend's
house, and at first resisted the young man. Afterwards, when he was married, she abandoned
herself to him. This liaison filled Madame du Guenic with despair, but was ended after 1840
by the crafty manoeuvres of the Abbe Brossette. Madame de Rochefide then rejoined her husband
in the elegant mansion on rue d'Anjou-Saint-Honore, but not until she had retired with him
to Nogent-sur-Marne, to care for her health which had been injured during the resumption of
marital relations. Before this reconciliation she lived in Paris on rue de Chartres-du-Roule,
near Monceau Park. The Marquise de Rochefide had, by her husband, a son, who was for some time
under the care of Madame Schontz. [Beatrix. The Secrets of a Princess.] In 1834, in the presence
of Madame Felix de Vandenesse, then in love with the poet Nathan, the Marquise Charles de Vandenesse,
sister-in-law of Madame Felix, Lady Dudley, Mademoiselle des Touches, the Marquise d'Espard,
Madame Moina de Saint Hereen and Madame de Rochefide expressed their ideas on love and marriage.
"Love is heaven," said Lady Dudley. "It is hell!" cried Mademoiselle des Touches. "But it is
a hell where there is love," replied Madame de Rochefide. "There is often more pleasure in
suffering than in happiness; remember the martyrs!" [A Daughter of Eve.] The history of Sarrasine
was told her about 1830. The marquise was acquainted with the Lantys, and at their house saw
the strange Zambinella. [Sarrasine.] One afternon, in the year 1836 or 1837, in her house on
rue des Chartres, Madame de Rochefide heard the story of the "Prince of Bohemia" told by Nathan.
After this narrative she became wild over La Palferine. [A Prince of Bohemia.]

ROCHEGUDE (Marquis de), an old man in 1821, possessing an income of six hundred thousand francs,
offered a brougham at this time to Coralie, who was proud of having refused it, being "an artist,
and not a prostitute." [A Distinguished Provincial at Paris.] This Rochegude was apparently
a Rochefide. The change of names and confusion of families was corrected eventually by law.

RODOLPHE, natural son of an intelligent and charming Parisian and of a Barbancon gentleman
who died before he was able to arrange satisfactorily for his sweetheart. Rodolphe was a fictitious
character in "L'Ambitieux par Amour," by Albert Savarus in the "Revue de l'Est" in 1834, where,
under this assumed name, he recounted his own adventures. [Albert Savarus.]

ROGER, general, minister and director of personnel in the War Department in 1841. For thirty
years a comrade of Baron Hulot. At this time he enlightened his friend on the administrative
situation, which was seriously endangered at the time he asked for an appointment for his sub-chief,
Marneffe. This advancement was not merited, but became possible through the dismissal of Coquet,
the chief of bureau. [Cousin Betty.]

ROGRON, Provins tavern-keeper in the last half of the eighteenth century and the beginning
of the nineteenth. He was at first a carter, and married the daughter of M. Auffray, a Provins
grocer, by his first wife. When his father-in-law died, Rogron bought his house from the widow
for a song, retired from business and lived there with his wife. He possessed about two thousand
francs in rentals, obtained from twenty-seven pieces of land and the interest on the twenty
thousand francs raised by the sale of his tavern. Having become in his old age a selfish, avaricious
drunkard and shrewd as a Swiss tavern-keeper, he reared coarsely and without affection the
two children, Sylvie and Jerome-Denis, whom he had by his wife. He died, in 1822, a widower.
[Pierrette.]

ROGRON (Madame), wife of the preceding; daughter, by his first wife, of M. Auffray, a Provins
grocer; paternal aunt of Madame Lorrain, the mother of Pierrette; born in 1743; very homely;
married at the age of sixteen; left her husband a widower. [Pierrette.]

ROGRON (Sylvie), elder child of the preceding; born between 1780 and 1785 at Provins; sent
to the country to be nursed. When thirteen years old she was placed in a store on rue Saint-Denis,
Paris. When twenty years old she was second clerk in a silk-store, the Ver Chinois, and towards
the end of 1815, bought with her own savings and those of her brother the property of the Soeur
de Famille, one of the best retail haberdasher's establishments and then kept by Madame Guenee.
Sylvie and Jerome-Denis, partners in this establishment, retired to Provins in 1823. They lived
there in their father's house, he having been dead several months, and received their cousin,
the young Pierrette Lorrain, a fatherless and motherless child of a delicate nature, whom they
treated harshly, and who died as a result of the brutal treatment of Sylvie, an envious spinster.
This woman had been sought in marriage, on account of her dowry, by Colonel Gouraud, and she
believed herself deserted by him for Pierrette. [Pierrette.]

ROGRON (Jerome-Denis), two years younger than his sister Sylvie, and like her sent to Paris
by his father. When very young he entered the establishment of one of the leading haberdashers
on rue Saint-Denis, the firm of Guepin at the Trois Quenouilles. He became first clerk there
at eighteen. Finally associated with Sylvie in the haberdasher's establishment, the Soeur de
Famille, he withdrew with her in 1823 to Provins. Jerome-Denis Rogron was ignorant and did
not amount to much, but depended on his sister in everything, for Sylvie had "good sense and
was sharp at a bargain." He allowed his sister to maltreat Pierrette Lorrain, and, when called
before the Provins court as responsible for the young girl's death, was acquitted. In his little
city, Rogron, through the influence of the attorney, Vinet, opposed the government of Charles
X. After 1830 he was appointed receiver-general. The former Liberal, who was one of the masses,
said that Louis Philippe would not be a real king until he could create noblemen. In 1828,
although homely and unintelligent, he married the beautiful Bathilde de Chargeboeuf, who inspired
in him an old man's foolish passion. [Pierrette.]

ROGRON (Madame Denis), born Bathilde de Chargeboeuf, about 1803, one of the most beautiful
young girls of Troyes, poor but noble and ambitious. Her relative, Vinet the attorney, had
made "a little Catherine de Medicis" of her, and married her to Denis Rogron. Some years after
this marriage she desired to become a widow as soon as possible, so that she might marry General
Marquis de Montriveau, a peer of France, who was very attentive to her. Montriveau controlled
the department in which Rogron had a receivership. [Pierrette.]

ROGUIN, born in 1761; for twenty-five years a Paris notary, tall and heavy; black hair and
high forehead; of somewhat distinguished appearance; affected with ozoena. This affection caused
his ruin, for, having married the only daughter of the banker, Chevrel, he disgusted his wife
very soon, and she was untrue to him. On the other hand, he had paid mistresses, and kept and
was fleeced by Sarah van Gobseck --"La Belle Hollandaise"--mother of Esther. He had met her
about 1815. In 1818 and 1819 Roguin, seriously compromised by careless financial ventures as
well as by dissipation, disappeared from Paris; and thus brought about the ruin of Guillaume
Grandet, Cesar Birotteau, and Mesdames Descoings and Bridau. [Cesar Birotteau. Eugenie Grandet.
A Bachelor's Establishment.] Roguin had by his wife a daughter, whom he married to the president
of the Provins tribunal. She was called in that city "the beautiful Madame Tiphaine." [Pierrette.]
In 1816 he made, for Ginevra di Piombo, a respectful request of her father that he would allow
his daughter to marry Luigi Porta, an enemy of the family. [The Vendetta.]

ROGUIN (Madame), born Chevrel between the years 1770 and 1780; only daughter of Chevrel, the
banker; wife of the preceding; cousin of Madame Guillaume of The Cat and Racket, and fifteen
years her junior; aided her relative's daughter, Augustine, in her love affair with the painter,
Sommervieux; pretty and coquettish; for a long time the mistress of Tillet, the banker; was
present with her husband at the famous ball given by Cesar Birotteau, December 17, 1818. She
had a country-house at Nogent-sur-Marne, in which she lived with her lover after Roguin's departure.
[Cesar Birotteau. At the Sign of the Cat and Racket. Pierrette.] In 1815 Caroline Crochard,
then an embroiderer, worked for Madame Roguin, who made her wait for her wages. [A Second Home.]
In 1834 and 1835 Madame Roguin, then more than fifty years of age, still posed as young and
dominated Du Tillet, who was married to the charming Marie-Eugenie de Granville. [A Daughter
of Eve.]

ROGUIN (Mathilde-Melanie). (See Tiphaine, Madame.)

ROMETTE (La). (See Paccard, Jeromette.)

RONCERET (Du), president of the Alencon tribunal under the Restoration; was then a tall man,
very thin, with forehead sloping back to his thin chestnut hair; eyes of different colors,
and compressed lips. Not having been courted by the nobility, he turned his attention to the
middle classes, and then in the suit against Victurnien d'Esgrignon, charged with forgery,
he immediately took part in the prosecution. That a preliminary trial might be avoided he kept
away from Alencon, but a judgment which acquitted Victurnien was rendered during his absence.
M. du Ronceret, in Machiavelli fashion, manoeuvred to gain for his son Fabien the hand of a
wealthy heiress of the city, Mademoiselle Blandureau, who had also been sought by Judge Blondet
for his son Joseph. In this contest the judge won over his chief. [Jealousies of a Country
Town.] M. du Ronceret died in 1837, while holding the presidency of chamber at the Royal Court
of Caen. The Du Roncerets, ennobled under Louis XV., had arms bearing the word "Servir" as
a motto and a squire's helmet. [Beatrix.]

RONCERET (Madame du), wife of the preceding, tall and ill-formed; of serious disposition; dressed
herself in the most absurd costumes of gorgeous colors; spent much time at her toilet, and
never went to a ball without first decorating her head with a turban, such as the English were
then wearing. Madame du Ronceret received each week, and each quarter gave a great three-course
dinner, which was spoken of in Alencon, for the president then endeavored, with his miserly
abundance, to compete with M. du Bousquier's elegance. In the Victurnien d'Esgrignon affair,
Madame du Ronceret, at the instigation of her husband, urged the deputy, Sauvages, to work
against the young nobleman. [Jealousies of a Country Town.] At first a judge in Alencon, Du
Ronceret resigned after the death of his father and went to Paris in 1838, with the intention
of pushing himself into notice by first causing an uproar. He became acquainted in Bohemian
circles where he was called "The Heir," on account of some prodigalities. Having made the acquaintance
of Couture, the journalist, he was presented by him to Madame Schontz, a popular courtesan
of the day, and became his successor in an elegantly furnished establishment in a first floor
on rue Blanche. He there began as vice-president of a horticultural society. After an opening
session, during which he delivered an address which he had paid Lousteau five hundred francs
to compose, and where he made himself noticed by a flower given him by Judge Blondet, he was
decorated. Later he married Madame Schontz, who wished to enter middle-class society. Ronceret
expected, with her influence, to become president of the court and officer of the Legion of
Honor [Beatrix.] While purchasing a shawl for his wife at M. Fritot's, in company with Bixiou,
Fabien du Ronceret was present about 1844 at the comedy which took place when the Selim shawl
was sold to Mistress Noswell. [Gaudissart II.]

RONCERET (Madame Fabien du), born Josephine Schiltz in 1805, wife of the preceding, daughter
of a colonel under the Empire; fatherless and motherless, at nine years of age she was sent
to Saint-Denis by Napoleon in 1814, and remained in that educational institution, as assistant-mistress,
until 1827. At this time Josephine Schiltz, who was a god-child of the Empress, began the adventurous
life of a courtesan, after the example of some of her companions who were, like her, at the
end of their patience. She now changed her name from Schiltz to Schontz, and she was also known
under the assumed name of Little Aurelie. Animated, intelligent and pretty, after having sacrificed
herself to true love, after having known "some poor but dishonorable writers," after having
tried intimacy with several rich simpletons, she was met in a day of distress, at Valentino
Mussard's, by Arthur de Rochefide, who loved her madly. Having been abandoned by his wife for
two years, he lived with her in free union. This evil state of affairs existed until the time
when Josephine Schiltz was married by Fabien du Ronceret. In order to have revenge on the Marquis
de Rochefide for abandoning her, she gave him a peculiar disease, which she had made Fabien
du Ronceret contract, and which also was conveyed to Calyste du Guenic. During her life as
a courtesan, her rivals were Suzanne de Val-Noble, Fanny Beaupre, Mariette, Antonia, and Florine.
She was intimate with Finot, Nathan, Claude Vignon, to whom she probably owed her critical
mind, Bixiou, Leon de Lora, Victor de Vernisset, La Palferine, Gobeneim, Vermanton the cynical
philosphoer, etc. She even hoped to marry one of these. In 1836 she lived on rue Flechier,
and was the mistress of Lousteau, to whom she wished to marry Felicie Cardot, the notary's
daughter. Later she belonged to Stidmann. In 1838 she was present at Josepha's house-warming
on rue de la Ville-l'Eveque. In 1840, at the first performance at the Ambigu, she met Madame
de la Baudraye, then Lousteau's mistress. Josephine Schiltz finally became the wife of President
du Ronceret. [Beatrix. The Muse of the Department. Cousin Betty. The Unconscious Humorists.]

RONQUEROLLES (Marquis de), brother of Madame de Serizy; uncle of the Comtesse Laginska; one
of "The Thirteen," and one of the most efficient governmental diplomats under Louis Philippe;
next to the Prince de Talleyrand the shrewdest ambassador; was of great service to Marsay during
his service as a minister; was sent to Russia in 1838 on a secret mission. Having lost his
two children during the cholera scourge of 1832, he was left without a direct heir. He had
been a deputy on the Right Centre under the Restoration, representing a department in Bourgogne,
where he was proprietor of a forest and of a castle next to the Aigues in the commune of Blangy.
When Gaubertin, the steward, was discharged by the Comte de Montcornet, Soudry spoke as follows:
"Patience! We have Messieurs de Soulanges and de Ronquerolles." [The Imaginary Mistress. The
Peasantry. Ursule Mirouet.] M. de Ronquerolles was an intimate friend of the Marquis d'Aiglemont;
they even addressed each other familiarly as thou instead of you. [A Woman of Thirty.] He alone
knew of Marsay's first love and the name of "Charlotte's" husband. [Another Study of Woman.]
In 1820 the Marquis de Ronquerolles, while at a ball at the Elysee-Bourbon, in the Duchesse
de Berri's house, provoked Auguste de Maulincour, of whom Ferragus Bourignard had complained,
to a duel. Also, as a result of his membership in the Thirteen, Ronquerolles, along with Marsay,
helped General de Montriveau abduct the Duchesse de Langeais from the convent of bare-footed
Carmelites, where she had taken refuge. [The Thirteen.] In 1839 he was M. de Rhetore's second
in a duel fought with Dorlange-Sallenauve, the sculptor, in connection with Marie Gaston. [The
Member for Arcis.]

ROSALIE, rosy-cheeked and buxom, waiting-maid to Madame de Merret at Vendome; then, after the
death of her mistress, servant employed by Madame Lepas, tavern-keeper in that town. She finally
told Horace Bianchon the drama of La Grande Breteche and the misfortunes of the Merrets. [La
Grande Breteche.]

ROSALIE, chambermaid to Madame Moreau at Presles in 1822. [A Start in Life.]

ROSE, maid in the service of Armande-Louise-Marie de Chaulieu in 1823, at the time when this
young lady, having left the Carmelites of Blois, came to live with her father on the Boulevard
des Invalides in Paris. [Letters of Two Brides.]

ROSINA, an Italian from Messina, wife of a Piedmont gentleman, who was captain in the French
army under the Empire; mistress of her husband's colonel. She died with her lover near Beresina
in 1812, her jealous husband having set fire to the hut which she and the colonel were occupying.
[Another Study of Woman.]

ROUBAUD, born about 1803 was declared doctor by the Paris medical school, a pupil of Desplein;
practiced medicine at Montegnac, Haute-Vienne, under Louis Philippe, small man of fair skin
and very insipid appearance, but with gray eyes which betrayed the depth of a physiologist
and the tenacity of a student. Roubaud was introduced to Madame Graslin by the Cure Bonnet,
who was in despair at Roubaud's religious indifference. The young physician admired and secretly
loved this celebrated Limousinese, and became converted suddenly to Catholicism on seeing the
saintly death of Madame Graslin. When dying she made him head-physician in a hospital founded
by her at the Tascherons near Montegnac. [The Country Parson.]

ROUGET (Doctor), an Issoudun physician under Louis XVI. and the Republic; born in 1737; died
in 1805; married the most beautiful girl of the city, whom, it is said, he made very unhappy.
He had by her two children: a son, Jean-Jacques; and, ten years later, a daughter, Agathe,
who became Madame Bridau. The birth of this daughter brought about a rupture between the doctor
and his intimate friend, the sub-delegate Lousteau, whom Rouget, doubtless wrongly, accused
of being the girl's father. Each of these men charged the other with being the father of Maxence
Gilet, who was in reality the son of a dragoon officer, stationed at Bourges. Doctor Rouget,
who passed for a very disagreeable, unaccommodating man, was selfish and spiteful. He quickly
got rid of his daughter, whom he hated. After his wife, his mother-in-law and his father-in-law
had died, he was very rich, and although his life was apparently regular and free from scandal,
he was in reality very dissipated. In 1799, filled with admiration for the beauty of the little
Rabouilleuse, Flore Brazier, he received her into his own home, where she stayed, becoming
first the mistress, and afterwards the wife of his son, Jean-Jacques, and eventually Madame
Philippe Bridau, Comtesse de Bramboug. [A Bachelor's Establishment.]

ROUGET (Madame), born Descoings, wife of the preceding, daughter of rich and avaricous wool-dealers
at Issoudun, elder sister of the grocer, Descoings, who married the widow of M. Bixiou and
afterwards died with Andre Chenier, July 25, 1794, on the scaffold. As a young woman, although
in very poor health, she was celebrated for her beauty. Not being gifted with a very sound
intellect, when married it was thought that she was very badly treated by Doctor Rouget. Her
husband believed that she was unfaithful to him for the sake of the sub-delegate, Lousteau.
Madame Rouget, deprived of her dearly-beloved daughter, and finding her son lacking altogether
in affection for her, declined rapidly and died early in 1799, unwept by her husband, who had
counted correctly on her early death. [A Bachelor's Establishment.]

ROUGET (Jean-Jacques), born at Issoudun in 1768, son of the preceding couple, brother of Madame
Bridau, who was ten years his junior. Entirely lacking in intellect, he became wildly in love
with Flore Brazier, whom he knew as a child in his father's house. He made this girl his servant-mistress
soon after the doctor's death, and allowed her lover, Maxence Gilet, near her. He finally married
her in 1823, being urged to do so by his nephew, Philippe Bridau, who soon took Rouget to Paris,
and there arranged for the old man's early death by starting him into dissipation. [A Bachelor's
Establishment.] After the death of J.-J. Rouget, the Baudrayes of Sancerre bought part of his
furniture, and had it removed from Issoudun to Anzy, where they placed it in their castle,
which had formerly belonged to the Cadignans. [The Muse of the Department.]

ROUGET (Madame Jean-Jacques). (See Bridau, Madame Philippe.)

ROUSSE (La), significant name given Madame Prelard. (See this last name.)

ROUSSEAU, driver of the public hack which carried the taxes collected at Caen. This conveyance
was attacked and plundered by robbers in May, 1809, in the forest of Chesnay, near Mortagne,
Orne. Rousseau, being looked upon as an accomplice of the robbers, was included in the prosecution
which took place soon after; but he was acquitted. [The Seamy Side of History.]

ROUSTAN, Mameluke, in the service of Napoleon Bonaparte. He was with his master on the eve
of the battle of Jena, October 13, 1806, when Laurence de Cinq-Cygne and M. de Chargeboeuf
observed him holding the Emperor's horse as Napoleon dismounted. This was just before these
two approached the Emperor to ask pardon for the Hauteserres and the Simeuses, who had been
condemned as accomplices in the abduction of Senator Malin. [The Gondreville Mystery.]

ROUVILLE (de), (See Leseigneur, Madame.)

ROUVRE (Marquis du), father of the Comtesse Clementine Laginska; threw away a considerable
fortune, by means of which he had brought about his marriage with a Ronquerolles maiden. This
fortune was partly eaten up by Florine, "one of the most charming actresses of Paris." [The
Imaginary Mistress.] M. du Rouvre was the brother-in-law of the Comte de Serizy, who, like
him, had married a Ronquerolles. Having been a marquis under the old regime, M. du Rouvre was
created count and made chamberlain by the Emperor. [A Start in Life.] In 1829, M. du Rouvre,
then ruined, lived at Nemours. He had near this city a castle which he sold at great loss to
Minoret-Levrault. [Ursule Mirouet.]

ROUVRE (Chevalier du), younger brother of the Marquis du Rouvre; an eccentric old bachelor,
who became wealthy by dealing in houses and real estate, and is supposed to have left his fortune
to his niece, the Comtesse Clementine Laginska. [The Imaginary Mistress. Ursule Mirouet.]

ROUZEAU, an Angouleme printer, predecessor and master of Jerome-Nicolas Sechard, in the eighteenth
century. [Lost Illusions.]

RUBEMPRE (Lucien-Chardon de), born in 1800 at Angouleme; son of Chardon, a surgeon in the armies
of the Republic who became an apothecary in that town, and of Mademoiselle de Rubempre, his
wife, the descendant of a very noble family. He was a journalist, poet, romance writer, author
of "Les Marguerites," a book of sonnets, and of the "Archer de Charles IX.," a historical romance.
He shone for a time in the salon of Madame de Bargeton, born Marie-Louise-Anais de Negrepelisse,
who became enamored of him, enticed him to Paris, and there deserted him, at the instigation
of her cousin, Madame d'Espard. He met the members of the Cenacle on rue des Quatre-Vents,
and became well acquainted with D'Arthez. Etienne Lousteau, who revealed to him the shameful
truth concerning literary life, introduced him to the well-known publisher, Dauriat, and escorted
him to an opening night at the Panorama-Dramatique theatre, where the poet saw the charming
Coralie. She loved him at first sight, and he remained true to her until her death in 1822.
Started by Lousteau into undertaking Liberal journalism, Lucien de Rubempre passed over suddenly
to the Royalist side, founding the "Reveil," an extremely partisan organ, with the hope of
obtaining from the King the right to adopt the name of his mother. At this time he frequented
the social world and thus brought to poverty his mistress. He was wounded in a duel by Michel
Chrestien, whom he had made angry by an article in the "Reveil," which had severely criticised
a very excellent book by Daniel d'Arthez. Coralie having died, he departed for Angouleme on
foot, with no resources except twenty francs that Berenice, the cousin and servant of her mistress,
had received from chance lovers. He came near dying of exhaustion and sorrow, very near the
city of his birth. He found there Madame de Bargeton, then the wife of Comte Sixte du Chatelet,
prefect of Charente and a state councilor. Despite the warm reception given him, first by a
laudatory article in a local newspaper, and next by a serenade from his young fellow-citizens,
he left Angouleme hastily, desperate at having been responsible for the ruin of his brother-in-law,
David Sechard, and contemplating suicide. While walking along he chanced upon Canon Carlos
Herrera (Jacques Collin--Vautrin), who took him to Paris and became the guardian of his future
career. In 1824, while passing an evening at the theatre Porte-Saint-Martin, Rubempre became
acquainted with Esther Van Gobseck, called La Torpille, a courtesan. They were both seized
at once with a violent love. A little later, at the last Opera ball of the winter of 1824,
they would have compromised their security and pleasure if it had not been for the interference
of Jacques Collin, called Vautrin, and if Lucien had not denied certain people the pleasure
of satisfying their ill-willed curiosity, by agreeing to take supper at Lointier's.[*] Lucien
de Rubempre sought to become the son-in-law of the Grandlieus; he was welcomed by the Rabourdins;
he became the protector of Savinien de Portenduere; he became the lover of Mmes. Maufrigneuse
and Serizy, and the beloved of Lydie Peyrade. His life of ambition and of pleasure ended in
the Conciergerie, where he was imprisoned unjustly, charged with robbing and murdering Esther,
or with being an accomplice. He hanged himself while in prison, May 15, 1830. He is buried
in Pere-Lachaise in a costly tomb which contains also the body of Esther Gobseck, and in which
there is a place reserved for Jacques Collin. A series of articles, sharp and pointed, on Rubempre
is entitled "Les Passants de Paris."

[*] The Lointier restaurant, on rue Richelieu, opposite rue de la
    Bourse, was very popular about 1846 with the "four hundred."

RUFFARD, called Arrachelaine, a robber and at the same time employed by Bibi-Lupin, chief of
secret police in 1830; connected, with Godet, in the assassination of the Crottats, husband
and wife, committed by Dannepont, called La Pouraille. [Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.]

RUFFIN, born in 1815, the instructor of Francis Graslin after 1840. Ruffin was a professional
teacher, and was possessed of a wonderful amount of information. His extreme tenderness "did
not exclude from his nature the severity necessary on the part of one who wishes to govern
a child." He was of pleasing appearance, known for his patience and piety. He was taken to
Madame Graslin from his diocese by the Archbishop Dutheil, and had, for at least nine years,
the direction of the young man who had been put in his charge. [The Country Parson.]

RUSTICOLI. (See La Palferine.)

                                  S

SABATIER, police-agent; Corentin regretted not having had his assistance in the search with
Peyrade, at Gondreville, in 1803. [The Gondreville Mystery.]

SABATIER (Madame), born in 1809. She formerly sold slippers in the trade gallery of the Palais
de Justice, in Paris; widow of a man who killed himself by excessive drinking, became a trained
nurse, and married a man whom she had nursed and had cured of an affection of the urinary ducts
("lurinary," according to Madame Cibot), and by whom she had a fine child. She lived in rue
Barre-du-Bec. Madame Bordevin, a relative, wife of a butcher of the rue Charlot, was god-mother
of the child. [Cousin Pons.]

SAGREDO, a very wealthy Venetian senator, born in 1730, husband of Bianca Vendramini; was strangled,
in 1760, by Facino Cane, whom he had found with Bianca, conversing on the subject of love,
but in an entirely innocent way. [Facino Cane.]

SAGREDA (Bianca), wife of the preceding, born Vendramini, about 1742; in 1760, she undeservingly
incurred the suspicion, in the eyes of her husband, of criminal relations with Facino Cane,
and was unwilling to follow her platonic friend away from Venice after the murder of Sagredo.
[Facino Cane.]

SAILLARD, a clerk of mediocre talent in the Department of Finance, during the reigns of Louis
XVIII. and of Charles X.; formerly book-keeper at the Treasury, where he is believed to have
succeeded the elder Poiret;[*] he was afterwards appointed chief cashier, and held that position
a long while. Saillard married Mademoiselle Bidault, a daughter of a furniture merchant, whose
establishment was under the pillars of the Paris market, and a niece of the bill-discounter
on rue Greneta; he had by her a daughter, Elisabeth, who became by marriage Madame Isidore
Baudoyer; owned an old mansion on Place Royale, where he lived together with the family of
Isidore Baudoyer; he became mayor of his ward during the monarchy of July, and renewed then
his acquaintance with his old comrades of the department, the Minards and the Thuilliers. [The
Government Clerks. The Middle Classes.]

[*] The Compilers subsequently dispute this.

SAILLARD (Madame), wife of the preceding, born Bidault, in 1767; niece of the bill-discounter
called Gigonnet; was the leading spirit of the household on Place Royale, and, above all, the
counselor of her husband; she reared her daughter Elisabeth, who became Madame Baudoyer, very
strictly. [Cesar Birotteau. The Government Clerks.]

SAIN, shared with Augustin the sceptre of miniature painting under the Empire. In 1809, before
the Wagram campaign, he painted a miniature of Montcornet, then young and handsome; this painting
passed from the hands of Madame Fortin, mistress of the future marshal, to the hands of their
daughter, Madame Valerie Crevel (formerly Marneffe). [Cousin Betty.]

SAINT-DENIS (De), assumed name of the police-agent, Corentin.

SAINTE-BEAUVE (Charles-Augustin), born at Boulogne-sur-Mer in 1805; died in Paris in 1869;
an academician and senator under the Second Empire. An illustrious Frenchman of letters whom
Raoul Nathan imitated poorly enough before Beatrix de Rochefide in his account of the adventures
of Charles-Edouard Rusticoli de la Palferine. [A Prince of Bohemia.]

SAINTE-SEVERE (Madame de), cousin to Gaston de Nueil, lived in Bayeux, where she received,
in 1822, her young kinsman, just convalescing from some inflammatory disorder caused by excess
in study or in pleasure. [The Deserted Woman.]

SAINT-ESTEVE (De), name of Jacques Collin as chief of the secret police.

SAINT-ESTEVE (Madame de), an assumed name, shared by Madame Jacqueline Collin and Madame Nourrisson.

SAINT-FOUDRILLE (De), a "brilliant scholar," lived in Paris, and most likely in the Saint-Jacques
district, at least about 1840, the time when Thuillier wished to know him. [The Middle Classes.]

SAINT-FOUDRILLE (Madame de), wife of the preceding, received, about 1840, a very attentive
visit from the Thuillier family. [The Middle Classes.]

SAINT-GEORGES (Chevalier de), 1745-1801, a mulatto, of superb figure and features, son of a
former general; captain of the guards of the Duc d'Orleans; served with distinction under Dumouriez;
arrested in 1794 on suspicion, and released after the 9th Thermidor; he became distinguished
in the pleasing art of music, and especially in the art of fencing. The Chevalier de Saint-Georges
traded at the Cat and Racket on the rue Saint-Denis, but did not pay his debts. Monsieur Guillaume
had obtained a judgment of the consular government against him. [At the Sign of the Cat and
Racket.] Later he was made popular by a production of a comedie-vaudeville of Roger de Beauvoir,
at the Varietees under Louis Philippe, with the comedian Lafont[*] as interpreter.

[*] Complimented in 1836, at the chateau of Madame de la Baudraye, by
    Etienne Lousteau and Horace Bianchon.

SAINT-GERMAIN (De), one of the assumed names of police-agent Peyrade.

SAINT-HEREEN (Comte de), husband of Moina d'Aiglemont, was heir of one of the most illustrious
houses of France. He lived with his wife and mother-in-law in a house belonging to the former,
on the rue Plumet (now rue Oudinot), adjoining the Boulevard des Invalides; about the middle
of December, 1843, he left this house alone to go on a political mission; during this time
his wife received too willingly the frequent and compromising visits of young Alfred de Vandenesse,
and his mother-in-law died suddenly. [A Woman of Thirty.]

SAINT-HEREEN (Countess Moina de), wife of the preceding; of five children she was the only
one that survived Monsieur and Madame d'Aiglemont, in the second half of Louis Philippe's reign.
Blindly spoiled by her mother, she repaid that almost exclusive affection by coldness only,
or even disdain. By a cruel word Moina caused the death of her mother; she dared, indeed, to
recall to her mother her former relations with Marquis Charles de Vandenesse, whose son Alfred
she herself was receiving with too much pleasure in the absence of Monsieur de Saint-Hereen.
[A Woman of Thirty.] In a conversation concerning love with the Marquise de Vandenesse, Lady
Dudley, Mademoiselle des Touches, the Marquise of Rochefide, and Madame d'Espard, Moina laughingly
remarked: "A lover is forbidden fruit, a statement that sums up the whole case with me." [A
Daughter of Eve.] Madame Octave de Camps, referring to Nais de l'Estorade, then a girl, made
the following cutting remark: "That little girl makes me anxious; she reminds me of Moina d'Aiglemont."
[The Member for Arcis.]

SAINT-MARTIN (Louis-Claude de), called the "Unknown Philosopher," was born on the 18th of January,
1743, at Amboise, and died October 13, 1803; he was very often received at Clochegourde by
Madame de Verneuil, an aunt of Madame de Mortsauf, who knew him there. At Clochegourde, Saint-Martin
superintended the publication of his last books, which were printed at Letourmy's in Tours.
[The Lily of the Valley.]

SAINT-VIER (Madame de). (See Gentillet.)

SAINTOT (Astolphe de), one of the frequenters of the Bargeton salon at Angouleme; president
of the society of agriculture of his town; though "ignorant as a carp," he passed for a scholar
of the first rank; and, though he did nothing, he let it be believed that he had been occupied
for several years with writing a treatise on modern methods of cultivation. His success in
the world was due, for the most part, to quotations from Cicero, learned by heart in the morning
and recited in the evening. Though a tall, stout, red-faced man, Saintot seemed to be ruled
by his wife. [Lost Illusions.]

SAINTOT (Madame de), wife of the preceding. Her Christian name was Elisa, and she was usually
called Lili, a childish designaton that was in strong contrast with the character of this lady,
who was dry and solemn, extremely pious, and a cross and quarrelsome card-player. [Lost Illusions.]

SALLENAUVE (Francois-Henri-Pantaleon-Dumirail, Marquis de), a noble of Champagne, lost and
ruined by cards, in his old age was reduced to the degree of a street-sweep, under the service
of Jacques Bricheteau. [The Member for Arcis.]

SALLENAUVE (Comte de), legal son of the preceding, was born in 1809 of the relations of Catherine-Antoinette
Goussard and Jacques Collin; grandson of Danton through his mother; school-mate of Marie Gaston,
whose friend he continued to be, and for whom he fought a duel. For a long time he knew nothing
of his family, but lived almost to the age of thirty under the name of Charles Dorlange. [The
Member for Arcis.]

SALLENAUVE (Comtesse de), wife of the preceding, born Jeanne-Athenais de l'Estorade (Nais,
by familiar abbreviation) in February, 1827; the precocious and rather spoilt child of the
Comte and Comtesse Louis de l'Estorade. [Letters of Two Brides. The Member for Arcis.]

SALMON, formerly expert in the museum at Paris. In 1826, while on a visit at Tours, whither
he had gone to see his mother-in-law, he was engaged to assess a "Virgin" by Valentin and a
"Christ" by Lebrun, paintings which Abbe Francois Birotteau had inherited from Abbe Chapeloud,
having left them in an apartment recently occupied by himself at Mademoiselle Sophie Gamard's.
[The Vicar of Tours.]

SALOMON (Joseph), of Tours, or near Tours, uncle and guardian to Pauline Salomon de Villenoix,
a very rich Jewess. He was deeply attached to his niece and wished a brilliant match for her.
Louis Lambert, who was engaged to Pauline, said: "This terrible Salomon freezes me; this man
is not of our heaven." [Louis Lambert.]

SAMANON, a squint-eyed speculator, followed the various professions of a money-handler during
the reigns of Louis XVIII., Charles X., and Louis Philippe. In 1821, Lucien de Rubempre, still
a novice, visited Samanon's establishment in the Faubourg Poissonniere, where he was then engaged
in the numerous trades of dealing in old books and old clothes, of brokerage, and of discount.
There he found a certain great man of unknown identity, a Bohemian and cynic, who had come
to borrow his own clothes that he had left in pawn. [A Distinguished Provincial at Paris.]
Nearly three years later, Samanon was the man of straw of the Gobseck-Bidault (Gigonnet) combination,
who were persecuting Chardin des Lupeaulx for the payment of debts due them. [The Government
Clerks.] After 1830, the usurer joined with the Cerizets and the Claparons when they tried
to circumvent Maxime de Trailles. [A Man of Business.] The same Samanon, about 1844, had bills
to the value of ten thousand francs against Baron Hulot d'Ervy, who was seeking refuge under
the name of Father Vyder. [Cousin Betty.]

SAN-ESTEBAN (Marquise de), a foreign and aristocratic sounding assumed name, under which Jacqueline
Collin disguised herself when she visited the Conciergerie, in May, 1830, to see Jacques Collin,
himself under the incognito of Carlos Herrera. [Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.]

SAN-REAL (Don Hijos, Marquis de), born about 1735, a powerful nobleman; he enjoyed the friendship
of Ferdinand VII., King of Spain, and married a natural daughter of Lord Dudley, Margarita-Euphemia
Porraberil (born of a Spanish mother), with whom he lived in Paris, in 1815, in a mansion on
the rue Saint-Lazare, near Nucingen. [The Thirteen.]

SAN REAL (Marquise de), wife of the preceding, born Margarita-Euphemia Porraberil, natural
daughter of Lord Dudley and a Spanish woman, and sister of Henri de Marsay; had the restless
energy of her brother, whom she resembled also in appearance. Brought up at Havana, she was
then taken back to Madrid, accompanied by a creole girl of the Antilles, Paquita Valdes, with
whom she maintained passionate unnatural relations, that marriage did not interrupt and which
were being continued in Paris in 1815, when the marquise, meeting a rival in her brother, Henri
de Marsay, killed Paquita. After this murder, Madame de San Real retired to Spain to the convent
of Los Dolores. [The Thirteen.]

SANSON (Charles-Henri), public executioner in the period of the Revolution, and beheader of
Louis XVI.; he attended two masses commemorating the death of the King, celebrated in 1793
and 1794, by the Abbe de Marolles, to whom his identity was afterwards disclosed by Ragon.
[An Episode under the Terror.]

SANSON, son of the preceding, born about 1770, descended, as was his father, from headsmen
of Rouen. After having been captain of cavalry he assisted his father in the execution of Louis
XVI.; was his agent when scaffolds were operated at the same time in the Place Louis XV. and
the Place du Trone, and eventually succeeded him. Sanson was prepared to "accommodate" Theodore
Calvi in May, 1830; he awaited the condemning order, which was not issued. He had the appearance
of a rather distinguished Englishman. At least Sanson gave Jacques Collin that impression,
when he met the ex-convict, then confined at the Conciergerie. [Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.]
Sanson lived in the rue des Marais (the district of the Faubourg Saint-Martin), which is a
much shorter street now than formerly.

SARCUS was justice of the peace, in the reign of Louis XVIII., at Soulanges (Bourgogne), where
he lived on his fifteen hundred francs, together with the rent of a house in which he lived,
and three hundred francs from the public funds. Sarcus married the elder sister of Vermut,
the druggist of Soulanges, by whom he had a daughter, Adeline, afterwards Madame Adolphe Sibilet.
This functionary of inferior order, a handsome little old man with iron-gray hair, was none
the less the politician of the first order in the society of Soulanges, which was completely
under Madame Soudry's sway, and which counted almost all Montcornet's enemies. [The Peasantry.]

SARCUS, cousin in the third degree of the preceding; called Sarcus the Rich; in 1817 a counselor
at the prefecture of the department of Bourgogne, which Monsieur de la Roche-Hugon and Monsieur
de Casteran governed successively under the Restoration, and which included as dependencies
Ville-aux-Fayes, Soulanges, Blangy, and Aigues. He recommended Sibilet as steward for Aigues,
which was Montcornet's estate. Sarcus the Rich was a member of the Chamber of Deputies; he
was also said to be right-hand man to the prefect. [The Peasantry.]

SARCUS (Madame), wife of the preceding; born Vallat, in 1778, of a family connected with the
Gaubertins, was supposed in her youth to have favored Monsieur Lupin, who, in 1823, was still
paying devoted attentions to this woman of forty-five, the mother of an engineer. [The Peasantry.]

SARCUS, son of the preceding couple, became, in 1823, general engineer of bridges and causeways
of Ville-aux-Fayes, thus completing the group of powerful native families hostile to the Montcornets.
[The Peasantry.]

SARCUS-TAUPIN, a miller at Soulanges, who enjoyed an income of fifty thousand francs; the Nucingen
of his town; was father of a daughter whose hand was sought by Lupin, the notary, and by President
Gendrin for their respective sons. [The Peasantry.]

SARRASINE (Matthieu or Mathieu), a laborer in the neighborhood of Saint-Die, father of a rich
lawyer of Franche-Comte, and grandfather of the sculptor, Ernest-Jean Sarrasine. [Sarrasine.]

SARRASINE, a rich lawyer of Franche-Comte in the eighteenth century, father of the sculptor,
Ernest-Jean Sarrasine. [Sarrasine.]

SARRASINE (Ernest-Jean), a famous French sculptor, son of the preceding and grandson of Matthieu
Sarrasine. When quite young he showed a calling for art strong enough to combat the will of
his father, who wished him to adopt the legal profession; he went to Paris, entered Bouchardon's
studio, found a friend and protector in this master; became acquainted with Madame Geoffrin,
Sophie Arnould, the Baron d'Holbach, and J.-J. Rousseau. Having become the lover of Clotilde,
the famous singer at the Opera, Sarrasine won the sculptor's prize founded by Marigny, a brother
of La Pompadour, and received praise from Diderot. He then went to Rome to live (1758); became
intimate with Vien, Louthrebourg,[*] Allegrain, Vitagliani, Cicognara, and Chigi. He then fell
madly in love with the eunuch Zambinella, uncle of the Lanty-Duvignons; believing him to be
a woman, he made a magnificent bust of the singular singer, who was kept by Cicognara, and,
having carried him off, was murdered at the instigation of his rival in the same year, 1758.
The story of Sarrasine's life was related, during the Restoration, to Beatrix de Rochefide.
[Sarrasine. The Member for Arcis.]

[*] Or Louthrebourg, and also Lauterbourg, intentionally left out in
    the Repertory because of the various ways of spelling the name.

SAUTELOUP, familiarly called "Father Sauteloup," had the task, in May, 1830, of reading to
Theodore Calvi, who was condemned to death and a prisoner in the Conciegerie, the denial of
his petition for appeal. [Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.]

SAUVAGE (Madame), a person of repulsive appearance, and of doubtful morality, the servant-mistress
of Maitre Fraisier; on the death of Pons, kept house for Schmucke, who inherited from Pons
to the prejudice of the Camusot de Marvilles. [Cousin Pons.]

SAUVAGE, first deputy of the king's attorney at Alencon; a young magistrate, married, harsh,
stiff, ambitious, and selfish; took sides against Victurnien d'Esgrignon in the notorious affair
known as the D'Esgrignon-Du-Bousquier case; after the famous lawsuit he was sent to Corsica.
[Jealousies of a Country Town.]

SAUVAGNEST, successor of the attorney Bordin, and predecessor of Maitre Desroches; was an attorney
in Paris. [A Start in Life.]

SAUVAIGNOU (of Marseilles), a head carpenter, had a hand in the sale of the house on the Place
de la Madeleine which was bought in 1840, by the Thuilliers at the urgent instance of Cerizet,
Claparon, Dutocq, and especially Theodose de la Peyrade. [The Middle Classes.]

SAUVIAT (Jerome-Baptiste), born in Auvergne, about 1747; a traveling tradesman from 1792 to
1796; of commercial tastes, rough, energetic, and avaricious; of a profoundly religious nature;
was imprisoned during the Terror; barely escaped being beheaded for abetting the escape of
a bishop; married Mademoiselle Champagnac at Limoges in 1797; had by her a daughter, Veronique
(Madame Pierre Graslin); after the death of his father-in-law, he bought, in the same town,
the house which he was occupying as tenant and where he sold old iron; he continued his business
there; retired from business in wealth, but still, at a later period, went as superintendent
into a porcelain factory with J.-F. Tascheron; gave his attention to that work for at least
three years, and died then through an accident in 1827. [The Country Parson.]

SAUVIAT (Madame), wife of the preceding; born Champagnac, about 1767; daughter of a coppersmith
of Limoges, who became a widower in 1797, and from whom she afterwards inherited. Madame Sauviat
lived, in turn, near the rue de la Vieille-Poste, a suburb of Limoges, and at Montegnac. Like
Sauviat, she was industrious, rough, grasping, economical, and hard, but pious withal; and
like him, too, she adored Veronique, whose terrible secret she knew,--a sort of Marcellange
affair.[*] [The Country Parson.]

[*] A famous criminal case of the time.

SAVARON DE SAVARUS, a noble and wealthy family, whose various members known in the eighteenth
century were as follows: Savaron de Savarus (of Tournai), a Fleming, true to Flemish traditions,
with whom the Claes and the Pierquins seem to have had transactions. [The Quest of the Absolute.]
Mademoiselle Savarus, a native of Brabant, a wealthy unmarried heiress; Savarus (Albert), a
French attorney, descended, but not lineally, from the Comte de Savarus. [Albert Savarus.]

SAVARUS (Albert Savaron de), of the family of the preceding list, but natural son of the Comte
de Savarus, was born about 1798; was secretary to a minister of Charles X., and was also Master
of Requests. The Revolution of 1830 fatally interrupted a very promising career; a deep love,
which was reciprocated, for the Duchesse d'Argaiolo (afterwards Madame Alphonse de Rhetore),
restored to Savarus his energetic and enterprising spirit; he succeeded in being admitted to
the bar of Besancon, built up a good practice, succeeded brilliantly, founded the "Revue de
l'Est," in which he published an autobiographic novel, "L'Ambitieux par Amour," and met with
warm support in his candidacy for the Chamber of Deputies (1834). Albert Savarus, with his
mask of a deep thinker, might have seen all his dreams realized, but for the romantic and jealous
fancies of Rosalie de Watteville, who discovered and undid the advocate's plans, by bringing
about the second marriage of Madame d'Argaiolo. His hopes thus baffled, Albert Savarus became
a friar of the parent institution of the Carthusians, which was situated near Grenoble, and
was known as Brother Albert. [The Quest of the Absolute. Albert Savarus.]

SCHERBELLOFF, Scherbelloff, or Sherbelloff (Princesse), maternal grandmother of Madame de Montcornet.
[The Peasantry. Jealousies of a Country Town.]

SCHILTZ married a Barnheim (of Baden), and had by her a daughter, Josephine, afterwards Madame
Fabien du Ronceret; was an "intrepid officer, a chief among those bold Alsatian partisans who
almost saved the Emperor in the campaign of France." He died at Metz, despoiled and ruined.
[Beatrix.]

SCHILTZ (Josephine), otherwise known as Madame Schontz. (See Ronceret, Madame Fabien du.)

SCHINNER (Mademoiselle), mother of Hippolyte Schinner, the painter, and daughter of an Alsatian
farmer; being seduced by a coarse but wealthy man, she refused the money offered as compensation
for refusing to legitimize their liaison, and consoled herself in the joys of maternity, the
duties whereof she fulfilled with the most perfect devotion. At the time of her son's marriage
she was living in Paris, and shared with him an apartment situated near the artist's studio,
and not far from the Madeleine, on the rue des Champs-Elysees. [The Purse.]

SCHINNER (Hippolyte), a painter, natural son of the preceding; of Alsatian origin, and recognized
by his mother only; a pupil of Gros, in whose studio he formed a close intimacy with Joseph
Bridau. [A Bachelor's Establishment.] He was married during the reign of Louis XVIII.; he was
at that time a knight of the Legion of Honor, and was already a celebrated character. While
working in Paris, near the Madeleine, in a house belonging to Molineux, he met the other occupants,
Madame and Mademoiselle Leseigneur de Rouville, and seems to have imitated with respect to
them the delicate conduct of their benefactor and friend, Kergarouet; was touched by the cordiality
extended to him by the baroness in spite of his poverty; he loved Adelaide de Rouville, and
the passion being reciprocated, he married her. [The Purse.] Being associated with Pierre Grassou,
he gave him excellent advice, which this indifferent artist was scarceley able to profit by.
[Pierre Grassou.] In 1822, the Comte de Serizy employed Schinner to decorate the chateau of
Presles; Joseph Bridau, who was trying his hand, completed the master's work, and even, in
a passing fit of levity, appropriated his name. [A Start in Life.] Schinner was mentioned in
the autobiographical novel of Albert Savarus, "L'Ambitieux par Amour." [Albert Savarus.] He
was the friend of Xavier Rabourdin. [The Government Clerks.] He drew vignettes for the works
of Canalis. [Modeste Mignon.] To him we owe the remarkable ceilings of Adam Laginski's house
situated on the rue de la Pepiniere. [The Imaginary Mistress.] About 1845, Hippolyte Schinner
lived not far from the rue de Berlin, near Leon de Lora, to whom he had been first instructor.
[The Unconscious Humorists.]

SCHINNER (Madame), wife of Hippolyte Schinner, born Adelaide Leseigneur de Rouville, daughter
of the Baron and Baronne de Rouville, her father being a naval officer; lived during the Restoration
in Paris with her mother, boarding at a house situated on the rue de Surene and belonging to
Molineux. Bereft of her father, the future Madame Schinner would then have found it difficult
to await the slow adjustment of her father's pension, had not their old friend, Admiral de
Kergarouet, come in his unobtrusive way to the assistance of herself and her mother. About
the same time she nursed their neighbor, Hippolyte Schinner, who was suffering from the effects
of a fall, and conceived for him a love that was returned; the gift of a little embroidered
purse on the part of the young woman brought about the marriage. [The Purse.]

SCHMUCKE (Wilhelm), a German Catholic, and a man of great musical talent; open-hearted, absent-minded,
kind, sincere, of simple manners, of gentle and upright bearing. Originally he was precentor
to the Margrave of Anspach; he had known Hoffman, the eccentric writer of Berlin, in whose
memory he afterwards had a cat named Murr. Schmucke then went to Paris; in 1835-36, he lived
there in a small apartment on the Quai Conti, at the corner of the rue de Nevers.[*] Previous
to this, in the Quartier du Marais, he gave lessons in harmony, that were much appreciated,
to the daughters of the Granvilles, afterwards Mesdames de Vandenesse and du Tillet; at a later
period the former lady asked him to endorse some notes of hand for Raoul Nathan's benefit.
[A Daughter of Eve.] Schmucke was also instructor of Lydie Peyrade before her marriage with
Theodose de la Peyrade. [Scenes from a Courtesan's Life]; but those whom he regarded as his
favorite pupils were Mesdames de Vandenesse and du Tillet, and the future Vicomtesse de Portenduere,
Mademoiselle Mirouet of Nemours, the three "Saint-Cecilias" who combined to pay him an annuity.
[Ursule Mirouet.] The former precentor, now of ugly and aged appearance, readily obtained a
welcome with the principals of boarding-schools for young ladies. At a distribution of prizes
he was brought in contact with Sylvain Pons for whom he immediately felt an affection that
proved to be mutual (1834). Their intimacy brought them under the same roof, rue de Normandie,
as tenants of C.-J. Pillerault (1836). Schmucke lived for nine years in perfect happiness.
Gaudissart, having become manager of a theatre, employed him in his orchestra, entrusted him
with the work of making copies of the music, and employed him to play the piano and various
instruments that were not used in the boulevard theatres: the viol d'amore, English horn, violoncello,
harp, castanets, bells, saxhorns, etc. Pons made him his residuary legatee (April, 1845); but
the innocent German was not strong enough to contend with Maitre Fraisier, agent of the Camusot
de Marvilles, who were ignored in this will. In spite of Topinard, to whom, in despair at the
death of his friend, he went to demand hospitality, in the Bordin district, Schmucke allowed
himself to be swindled, and was soon carried off by apoplexy. [Cousin Pons.]

[*] Perhaps the former lodging place of Napoleon Bonaparte.

SCHONTZ (Madame), name borne by Mademoiselle Schiltz, afterwards Madame Fabien du Ronceret.
(See this last name.)

SCHWAB (Wilhelm), born at Strasbourg in the early part of the nineteenth century, of the German
family of Kehl, had Frederic (Fritz) Brunner as his friend, whose follies he shared, whose
poverty he relieved, and with whom he went to Paris; there they went to the Hotel du Rhin,
rue du Mail, kept by Johann Graff, father of Emilie, and brother of the famous tailor, Wolfgang
Graff. Schwab kept books for this rival of Humann and Staub. Several years later he played
the flute at the theatre at which Sylvain Pons directed the orchestra. During an intermission
at the first brilliant performance of "La Fiancee du Diable," presented in the fall of 1844,
Schwab invited Pons through Schmucke to his approaching wedding; he married Mademoiselle Emilie
Graff--a love-match--and joined in business with Frederic Brunner, who was a banker and enriched
by the inheritance of his father's property. [Cousin Pons.]

SCHWAB (Madame Wilhelm), wife of the preceding; born Mademoiselle Emilie Graff; an accomplished
beauty, niece of Wolfgang Graff, the wealthy tailor, who provided her with dowry. [Cousin Pons.]

SCIO (Madame), a prominent singer of the Theatre Feydeau in 1798, was very beautiful in "Les
Peruviens," a comic opera by Mongenod, produced with very indifferent success. [The Seamy Side
of History.]

SCOEVOLA (Mucius). Under this assumed name was concealed, during the Terror, a man who had
been huntsman to the Prince de Conti, to whom he owed his fortune. A plasterer, and proprietor
of a small house in Paris, on about the highest point of the Faubourg Saint-Martin,[*] near
the rue d'Allemagne, he affected an exaggerated civism, which masked an unfailing fidelity
to the Bourbons, and he in some mysterious way afforded protection to Sisters Marthe and Agathe
(Mesdemoiselles de Beauseant and de Langeais), nuns who had escaped from the Abbey of Chelles,
and were, with Abbe de Marolles, taking refuge under his roof. [An Episode under the Terror.]

[*] His parish was the Saint-Laurent church, which for a while during
    the Revolution had the name of Temple of Fidelity.

SECHARD (Jerome-Nicolas), born in 1743. After having been a workman in a printer's shop of
Angouleme situated on the Place du Murier, though very illiterate, he became its owner at the
beginning of the Revolution; was acquainted at that time with the Marquis de Maucombe, married
a woman that was provided with a certain competency, but soon lost her, after having by her
a son, David. In the reign of Louis XVIII., fearing the competition of Cointet, J.-N. Sechard
retired from active life, selling his business to his son, whom he intentionally deceived in
the trade, and moved to Marsac, near Angouleme, where he raised grapes, and drank to excess.
During all the latter part of his life, Sechard mercilessly aggravated the commercial difficulties
which his son David was struggling against. The old miser died about 1829, leaving property
of some value. [Lost Illusions.]

SECHARD (David), only son of the preceding, school-mate and friend of Lucien de Rubempre, learned
the art of printing from the Didots of Paris. On one occasion, upon his return to his native
soil, he gave many evidences of his kindness and delicacy; having purchased his father's printing
shop, he allowed himself to be deliberately cheated and duped by him; employed as proof-reader
Lucien de Rubempre, whose sister, Eve Chardon, he adored with a passion that was fully reciprocated;
he married her in spite of the poverty of both parties, for his business was on the decline.
The expense involved, the competition of the Cointets, and especially his experiments as inventor
in the hope of finding the secret of a particular way of making paper, reduced him to very
straitened circumstances. Indeed, everything combined to destroy Sechard; the cunning and power
of the Cointet house, the spying of the ungrateful Cerizet, formerly his apprentice, the disorderly
life of Lucien de Rubempre, and the jealous greed of his father. A victim of the wiles of Cointet,
Sechard abandoned his discovery, resigned himself to his fate, inherited from his father, and
cheered by the devotion of the Kolbs, dwelt in Marsac, where Derville, led by Corentin, hunted
him out with a view to gaining information as to the origin of Lucien de Rubempre's million.
Madame Sechard shared with her husband the inheritance of old J.-N. Sechard, and was then the
modest chatelaine of La Verberie, at Marsac. By her husband she had at least one child, named
Lucien. Madame Sechard was tall and of dark complexion, with blue eyes. [Lost Illusions.]

SEGAUD, solicitor at Angouleme, was successor to Petit-Claud, a magistrate about 1824. [Lost
Illusions.]

SELERIER, called the Auvergnat, Pere Ralleau, Le Rouleur, and especially Fil-de Soie, belonged
to the aristocracy of the galleys, and was a member of the group of "Ten Thousand," whose chief
was Jacques Collin; the latter, however, suspected him of having sold him to the police, about
1819, when Bibi-Lupin arrested him at the Vauquer boarding-house. [Father Goriot.] In his business
Selerier always avoided bloodshed. He was of philosophical turn, very selfish, incapable of
love, and ignorant of the meaning of friendship. In May, 1830, when being a prisoner at the
Conciergerie, and about to be condemned to fifteen years of forced labor, he saw and recognized
Jacques Collin, the pseudo-Carlos Herrera, himself incriminated. [Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.]

SENONCHES (Jacques de), a noble of Angouleme, a great huntsman, stiff and haughty, a sort of
wild boar; lived on very good terms with his wife's lover, Francois du Hautoy, and attended
Madame de Bargeton's receptions. [Lost Illusions.]

SENONCHES (Madame Jacques de), wife of the preceding, bore the given name of Zephirine, which
was abbreviated to Zizine. By Francois du Hautoy, her adored lover, she had a daughter, Francoise
de la Haye, who was presented as her ward, and who became Madame Petit-Claud. [Lost Illusions.]

SEPHERD (Carl), name assumed by Charles Grandet in the Indies, the United States, Africa, etc.,
while he was in the slave-trading business. [Eugenie Grandet.]

SERIZY, or Serisy (Comte Hugret de), born in 1765, descended in direct line from the famous
President Hugret, ennobled under Francois I. The motto of this family was "I, semper melius
eris," so that the final s of melius, the word eris, and the I of the beginning, represented
the name (Serizy) of the estate that had been made a county. A son of a first president of
Parliament (who died in 1794), Serizy was himself, as early as 1787, a member of the Grand
Council; he did not emigrate during the Revolution, but remained in his estate of Serizy, near
Arpajon; became a member of the Council of Five Hundred, and afterwards of the Council of State.
The Empire made him a count and a senator. Hugret de Serizy was married, in 1806, to Leontine
de Ronquerolles, the widow of General Gaubert. This union made him the brother-in-law of the
Marquis de Ronquerolles, and the Marquis du Rouvre. Every honor was alloted to him in course;
chamberlain under the Empire, he afterwards became vice-president of the Council of State,
peer of France, Grand Cross of the Legion of Honor, and member of the Privy Council. The glorious
career of Serizy, who was an unusually industrious person, did not offer compensation for his
domestic misfortunes. Hard work and protracted vigils soon aged the high functionary, who was
ever unable to win his wife's heart; but he loved her and sheltered her none the less constantly.
It was chiefly to avenge her for the indiscretion of the volatile young Oscar Husson, Moreau's
godson, that he discharged the not overhonest steward of Presles. [A Start in Life.] The system
of government that succeeded the Empire increased Serizy's influence and renown; he was an
intimate friend of the Bauvans and the Grandvilles. [A Bachelor's Establishment. Honorine.
Modeste Mignon.] His weakness in matters concerning his wife was such that he assisted her
in person, when, in May, 1830, she hastened to the Conciergerie in the hope of saving her lover,
Lucien de Rubempre, and entered the cell where the young man had just committed suicide. Serizy
even consented to be executor of the poet's will. [Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.]

SERIZY (Comtesse de), wife of the preceding, born Leontine de Ronquerolles about 1784, sister
of the Marquis du Ronquerolles; married, as her first husband, General Gaubert, one of the
most illustrious soldiers of the Republic; married a second time, when quite young, but could
never entertain any feeling stronger than respect for M. de Serizy, her second husband, by
whom, however, she had a son, an officer, who was killed during the reign of Louis Philippe.
[A Start in Life.] Worldly and brilliant, and a worthy rival of Mesdames de Beauseant, de Langeais,
de Maufrigneuse, de Carigliano, and d'Espard, Leontine de Serizy had several lovers, among
them being Auguste de Maulincour, Victor d'Aiglemont and Lucien de Rubempre. [The Thirteen.
Ursule Mirouet. A Woman of Thirty.] This last liaison was a very stormy one. Lucien acquired
considerable influence over Madame de Serizy, and made use of it to reach the Marquise d'Espard,
by effecting an annulment of the decree which she had obtained against her husband, the Marquis
d'Espard, placing him under guardianship. And so it was that, during Rubempre's imprisonment
and after his suicide, she suffered the bitterest anguish. Leontine de Serizy almost broke
the bars of the Conciergerie, insulted Camusot, the examining magistrate, and seemed to be
beside herself. The intervention of Jacques Collin saved her and cured her, when three famous
physicians, Messieurs Bianchon, Desplein, and Sinard declared themselves powerless to relieve
her. [Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.] During the winter the Comtesse de Serizy lived on the
Chaussee-d'Antin; during the summer at Serizy, her favorite residence, or still more at Presles,
and sometimes near Nemours in Le Rouvre, the seat of the family of that name. Being a neighbor,
in Paris, of Felicite des Touches, she was a frequent visitor of that emulator of George Sand,
and was at her house when Marsay related the story of his first love-affair, taking part herself
in the conversation. [Another Study of Woman.] Being a maternal aunt of Clementine du Rouvre,
Madame de Serizy gave her a handsome dowry when she married Laginski; with her brother Ronquerolles,
at his home on the rue de la Pepiniere, she met Thaddee Paz, the Pole's comrade. [The Imaginary
Mistress.]

SERIZY (Vicomte de), only son of the preceding couple, graduated from the Ecole Polytechnique
in 1825, and entered the cavalry regiment of the Garde Royale, by favor, as sub-lieutenant,
under command of the Duc de Maufrigneuse; at this time Oscar Husson, nephew of Cardot, entered
the same regiment as a private. [A Start in Life.] In October, 1829, Serizy, being an officer
in the company of the guards stationed at Havre, was instructed to inform M. de Verneuil, proprietor
of some well-stocked Norman "preserves," that Madame could not participate in the chase that
he had organized. Having become enamored of Diane de Maufrigneuse, the viscount found her at
Verneuil's house; she received his attentions, as a means of avenging herself on Leontine de
Serizy, then mistress of Lucien de Rubempre. [Modeste Mignon.] Being advanced to the rank of
lieutenant-colonel of a cavalry regiment, he was severely wounded at the disastrous battle
of Macta, in Africa (June 26, 1835), and died at Toulon as a result of his wounds. [The Imaginary
Mistress. A Start in Life.]

SERVAIS, the only good gilder in Paris, according to Elie Magus, whose advice he heeded; he
had the good sense to use English gold, which is far better than the French. Like the book-binder,
Thouvenin, he was in love with his own work. [Cousin Pons.]

SERVIEN (Prudence), born, in 1806, at Valenciennes, daughter of very poor weavers, was employed,
from the age of seven years, in a spinning-mill; corrupted early by her life in the work-room,
she was a mother at the age of thirteen; having had to testify in the Court of Assizes against
Jean-Francois Durut, she made of him a formidable enemy, and fell into the power of Jacques
Collin, who promised to shelter her from the resentment of the convict. She was at one time
a ballet-girl, and afterwards served as Esther van Gobseck's chamber-maid, under the names
of Eugenie and Europe; was the mistress of Paccard, whom she very probably married afterwards;
aided Vautrin in fooling Nucingen and getting money from him. [Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.]

SERVIN, born about 1775, a distinguished painter, made a love-match with the daughter of a
penniless general; in 1815 was manager of a studio in Paris, which was frequented by Mademoiselle
Laure, and Mesdemoiselles Mathilde-Melanie Roguin, Amelie Thirion and Ginevra di Piombo, the
last three of whom were afterwards, respectively, Mesdames Tiphaine, Camusot de Marville, and
Porta. Servin at that time was concealing an exile who was sought by the police, namely Luigi
Porta, who married the master's favorite pupil, Mademoiselle Ginevra di Piombo. [The Vendetta.]

SERVIN (Madame), wife of the preceding, remembering that the romance of Porta and Ginevra's
love had been the cause of all his pupils' leaving her husband's studio, refused to shelter
Mademoiselle de Piombo when driven from her father's home. [The Vendetta.]

SEVERAC (De), born in 1764, a country gentleman, mayor of a village in the canton of Angouleme,
and the author of an article on silkworms, was received at Madame de Bargeton's in 1821. A
widower, without children, and doubtless very rich, but not knowing the ways of the world,
one evening on the rue du Minage, he found as ready listeners only the poor but aristocratic
Madame du Brossard and her daughter Camille, a young woman of twenty-seven years. [Lost Illusions.]

SIBILET, clerk of the court at Ville-aux-Fayes (Bourgogne), distant cousin of Francois Gaubertin,
married a Mademoiselle Gaubertin-Vallat, and had by that marriage six children. [The Peasantry.]

SIBILET (Adolphe), eldest of the six children of the preceding, born about 1793; was, at first,
clerk to a notary, then an unimportant employe in the land-registry office; and then, in the
latter part of the year 1817, succeeded his cousin, Francois Gaubertin, in the administration
of Aigues, General de Montcornet's estate, in Bourgogne. Sibilet had married Mademoiselle Adeline
Sarcus (of the poor branch), who bore him two children in three years; his selfish interest
and his personal obligations led him to gratify the ill-feeling of his predecessor, by being
disloyal to Montcornet. [The Peasantry.]

SIBILET (Madame Adolphe), wife of the preceding, born Adeline Sarcus, only daughter of a justice
of the peace, rich with beauty as her sole fortune, she was reared by her mother, in the little
village of Soulanges (Bourgogne), with all possible care. Not having been able to marry Amaury
Lupin (son of Lupin the notary), with whom she was in love, in despair she allowed herself,
three years after her mother's death, to be married, by her father, to the disagreeable and
repulsive Adolphe Sibilet. [The Peasantry.]

SIBILET, son of the court clerk, and police commissioner at Ville-aux Fayes. [The Peasantry.]

SIBILET (Mademoiselle), daughter of the court clerk, afterwards Madame Herve. [The Peasantry.]

SIBILET, son of the court clerk, first clerk of Maitre Corbinet, notary at Ville-aux-Fayes,
to whom he was the appointed successor. [The Peasantry.]

SIBUELLE, a wealthy contractor of somewhat tarnished reputation during the Directory and the
Consulate, gave his daughter in marriage to Malin de Gondreville, and through the credit of
his son-in-law became, with Marion, co-receiver-general of the department of Aube. [The Gondreville
Mystery.]

SIBUELLE (Mademoiselle), only daughter of the preceding, became Madame Malin de Gondreville.
[The Gondreville Mystery.]

SEYES (Emmanuel-Joseph), born in 1748 at Frejus, died in Paris in 1836, was successively vicar-general
of Chartres, deputy to the States-General and the Convention, member of the Committee of Public
Safety, member of the Five Hundred, member of the Directory, consul, and senator; famous also
as a publicist. In June, 1800, he might have been found in the Office of Foreign Relations,
in the rue du Bac, where he took part with Talleyrand and Fouche, in a secret council, in which
the subject of overthrowing Bonaparte, then First Consul, was discussed. [The Gondreville Mystery.]

SIGNOL (Henriette), a beautiful girl; of a good family of farmers, in the employ of Basine
Clerget, a laundress at Angouleme; was the mistress of Cerizet, whom she loved and trusted;
served as a tool against David Sechard, the printer. [Lost Illusions.]

SIMEUSE (Admiral de), father of Jean de Simeuse, was one of the most eminent French seamen
of the eighteenth century. [Beatrix. The Gondreville Mystery. Jealousies of a Country Town.]

SIMEUSE (Marquis Jean de), whose name, "Cy meurs" or "Si meurs," was the motto of the family
crest, was descended from a noble family of Bourgogne, who were formerly owners of a Lorrain
fief called Ximeuse, corrupted to Simeuse. M. de Simeuse counted a number of illustrious men
among his ancestors; he married Berthe de Cinq-Cygne; he was father of twins, Paul-Marie and
Marie-Paul. He was guillotined at Troyes during the Terror; Michu's father-in-law presided
over the Revolutionary tribunal that passed the death-sentence. [The Gondreville Mystery.]

SIMEUSE (Marquise de), wife of the preceding, born Berthe de Cinq-Cygne, was executed at Troyes
at the same time with her husband. [The Gondreville Mystery.]

SIMEUSE (Paul-Marie and Marie-Paul), twin sons of the preceding couple, born in 1773; grandsons
on the father's side of the admiral who was as famous for his dissipation as for his valor;
descended from the original owners of the famous Gondreville estate in Aube, and belonged to
the noble Champagne family of the Chargeboeufs, the younger branch of which was represented
by their mother, Berthe de Cinq-Cygne. Paul-Marie and Marie-Paul were among the emigrants;
they returned to France about 1803. Both being in love with their cousin, Laurence de Cinq-Cygne,
an ardent Royalist, they cast lots to decide which should be her husband; fate favored Marie-Paul,
the younger, but circumstances prevented the consummation of the marriage. The twins differed
only in disposition, and there in only one point: Paul-Marie was melancholy, while Marie-Paul
was of a bright disposition. Despite the advice of their elderly relative, M. de Chargeboeuf,
Messieurs de Simeuse compromised themselves with the Hauteserres; being watched by Fouche,
who sent Peyrade and Corentin to keep an eye on them, they were accused of the abduction of
Malin, of which they were not guilty, and sentenced to twenty-four years of penal servitude;
were pardoned by Napoleon, entered as sub-lieutenants the same cavalry regiment, and were killed
together in the battle of Sommo-Sierra (near Madrid, November 30, 1808). [The Gondreville Mystery.]

SIMONIN let carriages on the rue du Faubourg Saint-Honore, Cour des Coches, Paris; about 1840,
he let a berlin to Madame de Godollo, who, in accordance with the instructions of Corentin,
the police-agent, was pretending to be taking a journey, but went no further than the Bois
de Boulogne. [The Middle Classes.]

SIMONNIN, in the reign of Louis XVIII., was "errand-boy" to Maitre Derville on the rue Vivienne,
Paris, when that advocate received Hyacinthe Chabert. [Colonel Chabert].

SINARD, a Paris physician, was called, in May, 1830, together with Messieurs Desplein and Bianchon,
to the bedside of Leontine de Serizy, who had lost her reason after the tragic end of her lover,
Lucien de Rubempre. [Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.]

SINET (Seraphine), a celebrated lorette, born in 1820, known by the sobriquet of Carabine,
was present at Josepha Mirah's house-warming on the rue de la Ville-l'Eveque, in 1838. Five
years later, being then mistress of the wealthy F. du Tillet, Mademoiselle Sinet supplanted
the vivacious Marguerite Turquet as queen of the lorettes. [Cousin Betty.] A woman of splendid
appearance, Seraphine was one of the marching chorus at the Opera, and occupied the fine apartment
on the rue Saint-Georges, where before her Suzanne du Val-Noble, Esther van Gobseck, Florine,
and Madame Schontz had reigned. Of ready wit, dashing manners, and impish brazenness, Carabine
held many successful receptions. Every day her table was set in magnificent style for ten guests.
Artists, men of letters, and society favorites were among her frequent visitors. S.-P. Gazonal
was taken to see her, in 1845, by Leon de Lora and Bixiou, together with Jenny Cadine of the
Theatre du Gymnase; and there he met Massol, Claude Vignon, Maxime de Trailles, Nucingen, F.
du Bruel, Malaga, Monsieur and Madame Gaillard, and Vauvinet, with a multitude of others, to
say nothing of F. du Tillet. [The Unconscious Humorists.]

SINOT, attorney at Arcis-sur-Aube, commanded the patronage of the "Henriquinquistes" (partisans
of Henri V.) in 1839, when the district had to elect a deputy to replace M. Francois Keller.
[The Member for Arcis.]

SOCQUARD, during the Empire and the Restoration, kept the Cafe de la Paix at Soulanges (Bourgogne).
The Milo of Crotona of the Avonne Valley, a stout little man, of placid countenance, and a
high, clear voice. He was manager of the Tivoli, a dancing-hall adjoining the cafe. Monsieur
Vermichel, violin, and Monsieur Fourchon, clarinet, constituted the orchestra. Plissoud, Bonnebault,
Viallet, and Amaury Lupin were steady patrons of his establishment, which was long famous for
its billiards, its punch, and its mulled wine. In 1823, Socquard lost his wife. [The Peasantry.]

SOCQUARD (Madame Junie), wife of the preceding, had many thrilling love-affairs during the
Empire. She was very beautiful, and her luxurious mode of living, to which the leading men
of Soulanges contributed, was notorious in the Avonne valley. Lupin, the notary, had been guilty
of great weakness in her direction, and Gaubertin, who took her away from him, unquestionably
had by her a natural son, little Bournier. Junie was the secret of the prosperity of the Socquard
house. She brought her husband a vineyard, the house he lived in, and the Tivoli. She died
in the reign of Louis XVIII. [The Peasantry.]

SOCQUARD (Aglae), daughter of the preceding couple, born in 1801, inherited her father's ridiculous
obesity. Being sought in marriage by Bonnebault, whom her father esteemed highly as a customer,
but little as a son-in-law, she excited the jealousy of Marie Tonsard, and was always at daggers
drawn with her. [The Peasantry.]

SODERINI (Prince), father of Madame d'Argaiolo, who was afterwards the Duchesse Alphonse de
Rhetore; at Besancon, in 1834, he demanded of Albert Savarus his daughter's letters and portrait.
His sudden arrival caused a hasty departure on the part of Savarus, then a candidate for election
to the Chamber of Deputies, and ignorant of Madame d'Argaiolo's approaching second marriage.
[Albert Savarus.]

SOLIS (Abbe de), born about 1733, a Dominican, grand penitentiary of Toledo, vicar-general
of the Archbishopric of Malines; a venerable priest, unassuming, kindly and large of person.
He adopted Emmanuel de Solis, his brother's son, and, retiring to Douai, under the acceptable
protection of the Casa-Reals, was confessor and adviser of their last descendant, Madame Balthazar
Claes. The Abbe de Solis died in December, 1818. [The Quest of the Absolute.]

SOLIS (Emmanuel), nephew and adopted son of the preceding. Poor, and of a family originally
from Granada, he responded well to the excellent education that he received, followed the teacher's
calling, taught the humanities at the lyceum at Douai, of which he was afterwards principal,
and gave lessons to the brothers of Marguerite Claes, whom he loved, the feeling being reciprocated.
He married her in 1825; the more fully to enjoy his good fortune, he resigned the position
as inspector of the University, which he then held. Shortly afterwards he inherited the title
of Comte de Nourho, through the house of Solis. [The Quest of the Absolute.]

SOLIS (Madame Emmanuel de), wife of the preceding, born Marguerite Claes, in 1796, elder sister
of Madame Felicie Pierquin, whose husband had first sought her hand, received from her dying
mother the injunction to contend respectfully, but firmly, against her father's foolish efforts
as inventor; and, in compliance with her mother's injunctions, by dint of great perseverance,
succeeded in restoring the family fortunes that had been more than endangered. Madame de Solis
gave birth to a child, in the course of a trip to Spain, where she was visiting Casa-Real,
the cradle of her mother's family. [The Quest of the Absolute.]

SOLONET, born in 1795, obtained the decoration of the Legion of Honor for having made very
active contribution to the second return of the Bourbons; was the youthful and worldly notary
of Bordeaux; in the drawing up of the marriage contract between Natalie Evangelista and Paul
de Manerville, he triumphed over the objections raised by his colleague, Mathias, who was defender
of the Manerville interests. Solonet paid the most devoted attentions of a lover to Madame
Evangelista, but his love was not returned, and he sought her hand in vain. [A Marriage Settlement.]

SOLVET, a handsome youth, but addicted to gaming and other vices, loved by Caroline Crochard
de Bellefeuille and preferred by her to Monsieur de Granville, her generous protector. Solvet
made Mademoiselle Crochard very unhappy, ruined her, but was none the less adored by her. These
facts were known to Bianchon, and related by him to the Comte de Granville, whom he met, one
evening, in the reign of Louis Philippe, near rue Gaillon. [A Second Home.]

SOMMERVIEUX (Theodore de), a painter, winner of the prix de Rome, knight of the Legion of Honor,
was particularly successful in interiors; and excelled in chiaro-oscuro effects, in imitation
of the Dutch. He made an excellent reproduction of the interior of the Cat and Racket, on the
rue Saint-Denis, which he exhibited at the Salon at the same time with a fascinating portrait
of his future wife, Mademoiselle Guillaume, with whom he fell madly in love, and whom he married
in 1808, almost in spite of her parents, and thanks to the kind offices of Madame Roguin, whom
he knew in his society life. The marriage was not a happy one; the daughter of the Guillaumes
adored Sommervieux without understanding him. The painter often neglected his rooms on the
rue des Trois-Freres (now a part of the rue Taitbout) and transferred his homage to the Marechale
de Carigliano. He had an income of twelve thousand francs; before the Revolution his father
was called the Chevalier de Sommervieux. [At the Sign of the Cat and Racket.] Theodore de Sommervieux
designed a monstrance for Gohier, the king's goldsmith; this monstrance was bought by Madame
Baudoyer and given to the church of Saint-Paul, at the time of the death of F. de la Billardiere,
head clerk of the administration, whose position she desired for her husband. [The Government
Clerks.] Sommervieux also drew vignettes for the works of Canalis. [Modeste Mignon.]

SOMMERVIEUX (Madame Theodore de), wife of the preceding, born Augustine Guillaume, about 1792,
second daughter of the Guillaumes of the Cat and Racket (a drapery establishment on the rue
Saint-Denis, Paris), had a sad life that was soon wrecked; for, with the exception of Madame
Roguin, her family never understood her aspirations to a higher ideal, or the feeling that
prompted her to choose Theodore de Sommervieux. Mademoiselle Guillaume was married about the
middle of the Empire, at her parish church, Saint-Leu, on the same day that her sister was
married to Lebas, the clerk, and immediately after the ceremony referred to. A little less
coarse in her feelings than her parents and their associates, but insignificant enough at best,
without being aware of it she displeased the painter, and chilled the enthusiasm of her husband's
studio friends, Schinner, Bridau, Bixiou, and Lora. Grassou, who was very much of a countryman,
was the only one that refrained from laughing at her. Worn out at last, she tried to win back
the heart that had become the possession of Madame de Carigliano; she even went to consult
her rival, but could not use the weapons supplied her by the coquettish wife of the marshal,
and died of a broken heart shortly after the famous ball given by Cesar Birotteau, to which
she was invited. She was buried in Montmartre cemetery. [At the Sign of the Cat and Racket.
Cesar Birotteau.]

SONET, marble-worker and contractor for tombstones, at Paris, during the Restoraton and Louis
Philippe's reign. When Pons died, the marble-worker sent his agent to Schmucke to solicit an
order for statues of Art and Friendship grouped together. Sonet had the draughtsman Vitelot
as partner. The firm name was Sonet & Co. [Cousin Pons.]

SONET (Madame), wife of the preceding, knew how to lavish attentions no less zealous than selfish
on W. Schmucke, when he returned, broken-hearted, from Pere-Lachaise, in April, 1845, and suggested
to him, with some modifications however, to take certain allegorical monuments which the families
of Marsay and Keller had formerly refused, preferring to apply to a genuine artist, the sculptor
Stidmann. [Cousin Pons.]

SOPHIE, rival, namesake and contemporary of the famous Sophie, Doctor Veron's "blue ribbon,"
about 1844, was cook to the Comte Popinot on the rue Basse-du-Rempart, Paris. She must have
been a remarkable culinary artist, for Sylvain Pons, reduced, in consequence of breaking with
the Camusots, to dining at home, on the rue de Normandie, every day, often exclaimed in fits
of melancholy, "O Sophie!" [Cousin Pons.]

SORBIER, a Parisian notary, to whom Chesnel (Choisnel) wrote, in 1822, from Normandie, to commend
to his care the rattle-brained Victurnien d'Esgrignon. Unfortunately Sorbier was dead, and
the letter was sent to his widow. [Jealousies of a Country Town.]

SORBIER (Madame), wife of the preceding, mentioned in Chesnel's (or Choisnel's) letter of 1822,
concerning Victurnien d'Esgrignon. She scarcely read the note, and simply sent it to her deceased
husband's successor, Maitre Cardot. Thus the widow unwittingly served M. du Bousquier (du Croisier),
the enemy of the D'Esgrignons. [Jealousies of a Country Town.]

SORIA (Don Ferdinand, Duc de), younger brother of Don Felipe de Macumer, overwhelmed with kindness
by his elder brother, owing him the duchy of Soria as well as the hand of Marie Heredia, both
being voluntarily renounced by the elder brother. Soria was not ungrateful; he hastened to
his dying brother's bedside in 1829. The latter's death made Don Ferdinand Baron de Macumer.
[Letters of Two Brides.]

SORIA (Duchesse de), wife of the preceding, born Marie Heredia, daughter of the wealthy Comte
Heredia, was loved by two brothers, Don Ferdinand, Duc de Soria, and Don Felipe de Macumer.
Though betrothed to the latter, she married the former, in accordance with her wishes, the
Baron de Macumer having generously renounced her hand in favor of Don Ferdinand. The duchess
retained a feeling of deep gratitude to him for his unselfishness, and at a later time bestowed
every care on him in his last illness (1829). [Letters of Two Brides.]

SORMANO, the "shy" servant of the Argaiolos, at the time of their exile in Switzerland, figures,
as a woman, under the name of Gina, in the autobiographical novel of Albert Savarus, entitled
"L'Ambitieux par l'Amour." [Albert Savarus.]

SOUCHET, a broker at Paris, whose failure ruined Guillaume Grandet, brother of the well-known
cooper of Saumur. [Eugenie Grandet.]

SOUCHET (Francois), winner of the prix de Rome for his sculpture, about the beginning of Louis
XVIII.'s reign; an intimate friend of Hippolyte Schinner, who confided to him his love for
Adelaide Leseigneur de Rouville, and was rallied on it by him. [The Purse.] About 1835, with
Steinbock's assistance, Souchet carved the panels over the doors and mantels of Laginski's
magnificent house on the rue de la Pepiniere, Paris. [The Imaginary Mistress.] He had given
to Florine (afterwards Madame Raoul Nathan) a plaster cast of a group representing an angel
holding an aspersorium, which adorned the actress's sumptuous apartments in 1834. [A Daughter
of Eve.]

SOUDRY, born in 1773, a quartermaster, secured a valuable friend in M. de Soulanges, then adjutant-general,
by saving him at the peril of his own life. Having become brigadier of gendarmes at Soulanges
(Bourgogne), Soudry, in 1815, married Mademoiselle Cochet, Sophie Laguerre's former lady's-maid.
Six years later, he was put on the retired list, at the request of Montcornet, and replaced
in his brigade by Viallet; but, supported by the influence of Francois Gaubertin, he was elected
mayor of Soulanges, and became the formidable enemy of the Montcornets. Like Gregoire Rigou,
his son's father-in-law, the old gendarme kept as his mistress, under the same roof with his
wife, his servant Jeannette, who was younger than Madame Soudry. [The Peasantry.]

SOUDRY (Madame), wife of the preceding, born Cochet in 1763. Lady's-maid to Sophie Laguerre,
Montcornet's predecessor at Aigues, she had an understanding with Francois Gaubertin, the steward
of the estate, to make a victim of the former opera singer. Twenty days after the burial of
her mistress, La Cochet married the brigadier, Soudry, a superb specimen of manhood, though
pitted with small-pox. During the reign of Louis XVIII., Madame Soudry, who tried awkwardly
enough to imitate her late mistress, Sophie Laguerre, reigned supreme in the society of Soulanges,
in her parlor which was the meeting ground of Montcornet's enemies. [The Peasantry.]

SOUDRY, natural son of Soudry, the brigadier of gendarmes; legitimized at the time of his father's
marriage to Mademoiselle Cochet, in 1815. On the day on which Soudry became legally possessed
of a mother, he had just finished his course at Paris. There he knew Gaubertin's son, during
a stay which he had at first intended to make long enough to entitle him to be registered as
an advocate, and eventually to enter the legal profession; but he returned to Bourgogne to
take charge of an attorney's practice for which his father paid thirty thousand francs. However,
abandoning pettifoggery, Soudry soon found himself deputy king's attorney in a department of
Bourgogne, and, in 1817, king's attorney under Attorney-General Bourlac, whom he replaced in
1821, thanks to the influence of Francois Gaubertin. He then married Mademoiselle Rigou. [The
Peasantry.]

SOUDRY (Madame), wife of the preceding, born Arsene Rigou, the only daughter of wealthy parents,
Gregoire Rigou and Arsene Pichard; resembled her father in cunningness of character, and her
mother in beauty. [The Peasantry.]

SOULANGES (Comte Leon de), born in 1777, was colonel of the artillery guard in 1809. In the
month of November of that year, he found himself the guest of the Malin de Gondrevilles, in
their mansion in Paris, on the evening of a great party; he met there Montcornet, a friend
of his in the regiment; Madame de Vaudremont, who had once been his mistress, accompanied by
the Martial de la Roche-Hugon, her new lover; and finally his deserted wife, Madame de Soulanges,
who had abandoned society, but who had come to the senator's house at the instigation of Madame
de Lansac, with a view to a reconciliation, which was successfully carried out. [Domestic Peace.]
Leon de Soulanges had several children as a result of his marriage; a son and some daughters;
having refused one of his daughters in marriage to Montcornet, on the ground that she was too
young, he made an enemy of that general. The count, remaining faithful to the Bourbons during
the Hundred Days, was made a peer of France and a general in the artillery corps. Enjoying
the favor of the Duc d'Angouleme, he was allowed a command during the Spanish war (1823), gained
prominence at the seige of Cadiz and attained the highest degrees in the military hierarchy.
Monsieur de Soulanges, who was very rich, owned, in the territory of the commune of Blangy
(Bourgogne), a forest and a chateau adjoining the Aigues estate, which had itself once belonged
to the house of Soulanges. At the time of the Crusades, an ancestor of the count had created
this domain. Soulanges's motto was: "Je soule agir." Like M. de Ronquerolles he got on badly
enough with his neighbor Montcornet and seemed to favor Francois Gaubertin, Gregoire Rigou
and Soudry, in their opposition to the future marshal. [The Peasantry.]

SOULANGES (Comtesse Hortense de), wife of the preceding, and niece of the Duchesses de Lansac
and de Marigny. In November, 1809, at a ball given by Malin de Gondreville, acting on the advice
of Madame de Lansac, the countess, then on bad terms with her husband, conquered her proud
timidity, and demanded of Martial de la Roche-Hugon a ring that she had received originally
from her husband; M. de Soulanges had afterwards passed it on to his mistress, Madame de Vaudremont,
who had given it to her lover, M. de la Roche-Hugon; this restitution effected the reconciliation
of the couple. [Domestic Peace.] Hortense de Soulanges inherited from Madame de Marigny (who
died about 1820) the Guebriant estate, with its encumbrance of an annuity. [The Thirteen.]
Madame de Soulanges followed her husband to Spain at the time of the war of 1823. [The Peasantry.]

SOULANGES (Amelie de), youngest daughter of the preceding couple, would have married the Comte
Philippe de Brambourg, in 1828, but for the condemning revelations made by Bixiou concerning
Joseph Bridau's brother. [A Bachelor's Establishment.]

SOULANGES (Vicomte de), probably a brother of the preceding, was, in 1836, commander of a squad
of hussars at Fountainebleau; then, in company with Maxime de Trailles, he was going to be
second to Savinien de Portenduere in a duel with Desire Minoret, but the duel was prevented
by the unforeseen death of the latter; the underlying cause was the disgraceful conduct of
the Minoret-Levraults towards Ursule Mirouet, future Vicomtesse de Portenduere. [Ursule Mirouet.]

SOULAS (Amedee-Sylvain-Jacques de), born in 1809, a gentleman of Besancon, of Spanish origin
(the name was written Souleyas, when Franche-Comte belonged to Spain), succeeded in shining
brightly in the capital of Doubs on an income of four thousand francs, which allowed him to
employ the services of "Babylas, the tiger." Such discrepancy between his means and his manner
of living may well convey an idea of this fellow's character, seeing that he sought in vain
the hand of Rosalie de Watteville, but married, in the month of August, 1837, Madame de Watteville,
her widowed mother. [Albert Savarus.]

SOULAS (Madame Amedee de), born Clotilde-Louise de Rupt in 1798, stern in features and in character,
a blonde of the extreme type, was married, in 1815, to the Baron de Watteville, whom she managed
with little difficulty. She did not find it so easy, however, to govern her daughter, Rosalie,
whom she vainly tried to force to marry M. de Soulas. The pressure, at Besancon, of Albert
Savarus, who was secretly loved by Mademoiselle de Watteville, gave a political significance
to the salon of Rosalie's parents during the reign of Louis Philippe. Tired of her daughter's
obstinacy, Madame de Watteville, now a widow, herself married M. de Soulas; she lived in Paris,
in the winter at least, and knew how to be mistress of her house there, as she always had been
elsewhere. [Albert Savarus.]

SPARCHMANN, hospital surgeon at Heilsberg, attended Colonel Chabert after the battle of Eylau.
[Colonel Chabert.]

SPENCER (Lord), about 1830, at Balthazar Claes's sale, bought some magnificent wainscoting
that had been carved by Van Huysum, as well as the portrait of President Van Claes, a Fleming
of the sixteenth century,--family treasures which the father of Mesdames de Solis and Pierquin
was obliged to give up. [The Quest of the Absolute.]

SPIEGHALTER, a German mechanician, who lived in Paris on the rue de la Sante, in the early
part of Louis Philippe's reign, made unsuccessful efforts, with the aid of pressure, hammering
and rolling, to stretch the anomalous piece of shagreen submitted to him by Raphael de Valentin,
at the suggestion of Planchette, professor of mechanics. [The Magic Skin.]

SPONDE (Abbe de), born about 1746, was grand vicar of the bishopric of Seez. Maternal uncle,
guardian, guest, and boarder of Madame du Bousquier--nee Cormon--of Alencon; he died in 1819,
almost blind, and strangely depressed by his niece's recent marriage. Entirely removed from
worldly interests, he led an ascetic life, and an uneventful one, entirely consumed in thoughts
of salvation, mortifications of the flesh, and secret works of charity. At various times she
lived in the Vendomois in temporary exile. During one of her first stays in the Loire, she
was greeted with the singular formula of admiration, "Fameuse garce!" [The Chouans.] At a later
period, Madame de Stael came upon Louis Lambert, then a ragged urchin, absorbed in reading
a translation of Swedenborg's "Heaven and Hell." She was struck with him, and had him educated
at the college of Vendome, where he had the future minister, Jules Dufaure, as his boon companion;
but she forgot her protege, who was ruined rather than benefited by this passing interest.
[Louis Lambert.] About 1823 Louise de Chaulieu (Madame Marie Gaston) believed that Madame de
Stael was still alive, though she died in 1817. [Letters of Two Brides.]

STANHOPE (Lady Esther), niece of Pitt, met Lamartine in Syria, who described her in his "Voyage
en Orient"; had sent Lady Dudley an Arabian horse, that the latter gave to Felix de Vandenesse
in exchange for a Rembrandt. [The Lily of the Valley.] Madame de Bargeton, growing weary of
Angouleme in the first years of the Restoration, was envious of this "blue-stocking of the
desert." Lady Esther's father, Earl Charles Stanhope, Viscount Mahon, a peer of England, and
a distinguished scholar, invented a printing press, known to fame as the Stanhope press, of
which the miserly and mechanical Jerome-Nicholas Sechard expressed a contemptuous opinion to
his son. [Lost Illusions.]

STAUB, a German, and a Parisian tailor of reputation; in 1821, made for Lucien de Rubempre,
presumably on credit, some garments that he went in person to try on the poet at the Hotel
du Gaillard-Bois, on the rue de l'Echelle. Shortly afterwards, he again favored Lucien, who
was brought to his establishment by Coralie. [A Distinguished Provincial at Paris.]

STEIBELT, a famous musician, during the Empire was the instructor of Felicite des Touches at
Nantes. [Beatrix.]

STEINBOCK (Count Wenceslas), born at Prelie (Livonia) in 1809; great-nephew of one of Charles
XII.'s generals. An exile from his youth, he went to Paris to live, and, from inclination as
much as on account of his poverty, he became a carver and sculptor. As assistant to Francois
Souchet, a fellow-countryman of Laginski's, Wenceslas Steinbock worked on the decorations of
the Pole's mansion, on the rue de la Pepiniere. [The Imaginary Mistress.] Living amid squalor
on the rue du Doyenne, he was saved from suicide by his spinster neighbor, Lisbeth Fischer,
who restored his courage and determination, and aided him with her resources. Wenceslas Steinbock
then worked and succeeded. A chance that brought one of his works to the notice of the Hulot
d'Ervys brought him into connection with these people; he fell in love with their daughter,
and, the love being returned, he married her. Orders then came in quick succession to Wenceslas,
living, as he did, on the rue Saint-Dominique-Saint-Germain, near the Esplanade des Invalides,
not far from the marble stores, where the government had allowed him a studio. His services
were secured for the work of a monument to be erected to the Marechal de Montcornet. But Lisbeth
Fischer's vindictive hatred, as well as his own weakness of character, caused him to fall beneath
the fatal dominion of Valerie Marneffe, whose lover he became; with Stidmann, Vignon, and Massol,
he witnessed that woman's second marriage. Steinbock returned to the conjugal domicile on the
rue Louis-le-Grand, towards the latter part of Louis Philippe's reign. An exhausted artist,
he confined himself to the barren role of critic; idle reverie replaced power of conception.
[Cousin Betty.]

STEINBOCK (Countess Wenceslas), wife of the preceding; born Hortense Hulot d'Ervy in 1817;
daughter of Hector Hulot d'Ervy and Adeline Fischer; younger sister of Victorin Hulot. Beautiful,
and occupying a brilliant position in society through her parents, but lacking dowry, she made
choice of husband for herself. Endowed with enduring pride of spirit, Madame Steinbock could
with difficulty excuse Wenceslas for being unfaithful, and pardoned his disloyalty only after
a long while. Her trials ended with the last years of Louis Philippe's reign. The wisdom and
foresight of her brother Victorin, coupled with the results of the wills of the Marechal Hulot,
Lisbeth Fischer, and Valerie Crevel, at last brought wealth to the countess's household, who
lived successively on the rue Saint-Dominique-Saint-Germain, the rue Plumet, and the rue Louis-le-Grand.
[Cousin Betty.]

STEINBOCK (Wenceslas), only son of the preceding couple, born when his parents were living
together, stayed with his mother after their separation. [Cousin Betty.]

STEINGEL, an Alsatian, natural son of General Steingel, who fell at the beginning of the Italian
campaigns during the Republic; was, in Bourgogne, about 1823, under head-keeper Michaud, one
of the three keepers of Montcornet's estates. [The Gondreville Mystery. The Peasantry.]

STEVENS (Miss Dinah), born in 1791, daughter of an English brewer, ugly enough, saving, and
puritanical, had an income of two hundred and forty thousand francs and expectations of as
much more at her father's death; the Marquise de Vordac, who met her at some watering-place
in 1827, spoke of her to her son Marsay, as a very fine match, and Marsay pretended that he
was to marry the heiress; which he probably did, for he left a widow that erected to him, at
Pere-Lachaise, a superb monument, the work of Stidmann. [A Marriage Settlement. Cousin Pons.]

STIDMANN, a celebrated carver and sculptor of Paris at the times of the Restoration and Louis
Philippe; Wenceslas Steinbock's teacher; he carved, for the consideration of seven thousand
francs, a representation of a fox-chase on the ruby-set gold handle of a riding whip that Ernest
de la Briere gave to Modeste Mignon. [Modeste Mignon.] At the request of Fabien de Ronceret,
Stidmann undertook to decorate an apartment for him on the rue Blanche [Beatrix.], he made
the originals of a chimney-piece for the Hulot d'Ervys; was among the guests invited by Mademoiselle
Brisetout at her little house-warming on the rue Chauchat (1838); the same year he was present
at the celebration of Wenceslas Steinbock's marriage with Hortense Hulot; knew Dorlange-Sallenauve;
with Vignon, Steinbock and Massol, he was a witness of Valerie Marneffe's second marriage to
Celestin Crevel; entertained a secret love for Madame Steinbock when she was neglected by her
husband [The Member for Arcis. Cousin Betty.]; executed the work of Charles Keller's and Marsay's
monuments. [Cousin Pons.] In 1845 Stidmann entered the Institute. [The Unconscious Humorists.]

STOPFER (Monsieur and Madame), formerly coopers at Neuchatel, in 1823; were proprietors of
an inn at Gersau (canton of Lucerne), near the lake, to which Rodolphe came. The same village
sheltered the Gandolphinis, disguised under the name of Lovelace. [Albert Savarus.]

SUCY (General Baron Philippe de), born in 1789, served under the Empire; on one occasion, at
the crossing of the Beresina, he tried to assure the safety of his mistress, Stephanie de Vandieres,
a general's wife, of whom he afterwards lost all trace. Seven years later, however, being a
colonel and an officer in the Legion of Honor, while hunting with his friend, the Marquis d'Albon,
near the Isle-Adam, Sucy found Madame de Vandieres insane, under the charge of the alienist
Fanjat, and he undertook to restore her reason. With this end in view, he arranged an exact
reproduction of the parting scenes of 1812, on an estate of his at Saint-Germain. The mad-woman
recognized him indeed, but she died immediately. Having gained the promotion of general, Sucy
committed suicide, the prey of incurable despair. [Farewell.]

SUZANNE, real given name of Madame Theodore Gaillard.

SUZANNET was, with the Abbe Vernal, the Comte de Fontaine, and M. de Chatillon, one of the
four Vendean chiefs at the time of the uprising in the West in 1799. [The Chouans.]

SUZETTE, during the first years of Louis XVIII.'s reign, was lady's-maid to Antoinette de Langeais,
in Paris, about the time that the duchess was receiving attentions from Montriveau. [The Thirteen.]

SUZON was for a long time valet de chambre for Maxime de Trailles. [A Man of Business. The
Member for Arcis.]

SYLVIE, cook for Madame Vauquer, the widow, on the rue Neuve-Saint-Genevieve, during the years
1819 and 1820, at the time when Jean-Joachim Goriot, Eugene de Rastignac, Jacques Collin, Horace
Bianchon, the Poirets, Madame Couture, and Victorine Taillefer boarded there. [Father Goriot.]

                                  T

TABAREAU, bailiff of the justice of the peace in the eighth ward of Paris in 1844-1845. He
was on good terms with Fraisier, the business agent. Madame Cibot, door-keeper, on the rue
de Normandie, retained Tabareau to make a demand for her upon Schmucke for the payment of three
thousand one hundred and ninety-two francs, due her from the German musician and Pons, for
board, lodging, taxes, etc. [Cousin Pons.]

TABAREAU (Mademoiselle), only child of Tabareau, the bailiff; a large, red-haired consumptive;
was heir, through her mother, of a house on the Place Royale; a fact which made her hand sought
by Fraisier, the business agent. [Cousin Pons.]

TABOUREAU, formerly a day-laborer, and afterwards, during the Restoration, a grain-dealer and
money-lender in the commune of Isere, of which Doctor Benassis was mayor. He was a thin man,
very wrinkled, bent almost double, with thin lips, and a hooked chin that almost made connection
with his nose, little gray eyes spotted with black, and as sly as a horse-trader. [The Country
Doctor.]

TAILLEFER (Jean-Frederic), born about 1779 at Beauvais; by means of a crime, in 1799, he laid
the foundations of his fortune, which was considerable. In an inn near Andernach, Rhenish Prussia,
Jean-Frederic Taillefer, then a surgeon in the army, killed and robbed, one night, a rich native
tradesman, Monsieur Walhenfer, by name; however, he was never incommoded by this murder; for
accusing appearances pointed to his friend, colleague and fellow-countryman, Prosper Magnan,
who was executed. Returning to Paris, J.-F. Taillefer was from that time forth a wealthy and
honored personage. He was captain of the first company of grenadiers of the National Guard,
and an influencial banker; received much attention during the funeral obsequies of J.-B. d'Aldrigger;
made successful speculations in Nucingen's third venture. He was married twice, and was brutal
in his treatment of his first wife (a relative of Madame Couture) who bore him two children,
Frederic-Michel and Victorine. He was owner of a magnificent mansion on the rue Joubert. In
Louis Philippe's reign he entertained in this mansion with one of the most brilliant affairs
ever known, according to the account of the guests present, among whom were Blondet, Rastignac,
Valentin, Cardot, Aquilina de la Garde, and Euphrasie. M. Taillefer suffered, nevertheless,
morally and physically; in the first place because of the crime that he had previously committed,
for remorse for this deed came over him every fall, that being the time of its perpetration;
in the second place, because of gout in the head, according to Doctor Brousson's diagnosis.
Though well cared for by his second wife, and by his daughter of the first wife, Jean-Frederic
died some time after a sumptuous feast given at his house. An evening passed in the salon of
a banker, father of Mademoiselle Fanny, hastened Taillefer's end; for there he was obliged
to listen to Hermann's story about the unjust martyrdom of Magnan. The funeral notice read
as follows: "You are invited to be present at the funeral services of M. Jean-Frederic Taillefer,
of the firm Taillefer & Company, formerly contractor for supplies, in his life-time Knight
of the Legion of Honor and of the Golden Spur, Captain of the National Guard of Paris, died
May 1st, at his mansion, rue Joubert. The services will be conducted at --, etc. In behalf
of----," etc. [The Firm of Nucingen. Father Goriot. The Magic Skin. The Red Inn.]

TAILLEFER (Madame), first wife of the preceding, and mother of Frederic-Michel and Victorine
Taillefer. As the result of the harsh treatment by her husband, who unjustly suspected her
of being unfaithful, she died of a broken heart, presumably at quite an early age. [Father Goriot.]

TAILLEFER (Madame), second wife of Jean-Frederic Taillefer, who married her as a speculation,
but even then made her happy. She seemed to be devoted to him. [The Red Inn.]

TAILLEFER (Frederic-Michel), son of Jean-Frederic Taillefer by his first wife, did not even
try to protect his sister, Victorine, from her father's unjust persecutions. Designated heir
of the whole of his father's great fortune, he was killed, in 1819, near Clignancourt, by a
dexterous and unerring stroke, in a duel with Colonel Franchessini, the duel being instigated
by Jacques Collin, in the interest of Eugene de Rastignac, though the latter knew nothing of
the matter. [Father Goriot.]

TAILLEFER (Victorine), sister of the preceding, and daughter of Jean-Frederic Taillefer by
his first wife; a distant cousin of Madame Couture; her mother having died in 1819, she wrongfully
passed in her father's opinion for "the child of adulterous connections"; was turned away from
her father's house, and sought protection with her kinswoman, Madame Couture, the widow of
Couture the ordainer, on the rue Neuve-Saint-Genevieve, in Madame Vauquer's boarding-house;
there she fell in love with Eugene de Rastignac; by the death of her brother she became heir
to all the property of her father, Jean-Frederic Taillefer, whose death-bed she comforted in
every way possible. Victorine Taillefer probably remained single. [Father Goriot. The Red Inn.]

TALLEYRAND-PERIGORD (Charles-Maurice de), Prince de Benevent, Bishop of Autun, ambassador and
minister, born in Paris, in 1754, died in 1838, at his home on the rue Saint-Florentin.[*]
Talleyrand gave attention to the insurrectional stir that arose in Bretagne, under the direction
of the Marquis de Montauran, about 1799. [The Chouans.] The following year (June, 1800), on
the eve of the battle of Marengo, M. de Talleyrand conferred with Malin de Gondreville, Fouche,
Carnot, and Sieyes, about the political situation. In 1804 he received M. de Chargeboeuf, M.
d'Hauteserre the elder, and the Abbe Goujet, who came to urge him to have the names of Robert
and Adrien d'Hauteserre and Paul-Marie and Marie-Paul de Simeuse erased from the list of emigrants;
some time afterwards, when these latter were condemned, despite their innocence, as guilty
of the abduction and detention of Senator Malin, he made every effort to secure their pardon,
at the earnest instance of Maitre Bordin, as well as the Marquis de Chargeboeuf. At the hour
of the execution of the Duc d'Enghien, which he had perhaps advised, he was found with Madame
de Luynes in time to give her the news of it, at the exact moment of its happening. M. de Talleyrand
was very fond of Antoinette de Langeais. A frequent visitor of the Chaulieus, he was even more
intimate with their near relative, the elderly Princesse de Vauremont, who made him executor
of her will. [The Gondreville Mystery. The Thirteen. Letters of Two Brides.] Fritot, in selling
his famous "Selim" shawl to Mistress Noswell, made use of a cunning that certainly would not
have deceived the illustrious diplomat; one day, indeed, on noticing the hesitation of a fashionable
lady as between two bracelets, Talleyrand asked the opinion of the clerk who was showing the
jewelry, and advised the purchase of the one rejected by the latter. [Gaudissart II.]

[*] Alexander I., Czar of Russia, once stayed at this house, which is
    now owned and occupied by the Baron Alphonse de Rothschild.

TARLOWSKI, a Pole; colonel in the Imperial Guard; ordnance officer under Napoleon Bonaparte;
friend of Poniatowski; made a match between his daughter and Bourlac. [The Seamy Side of History.]

TASCHERON, a very upright farmer, in a small way, in the market town of Montegnac, nine leagues
distant from Limoges; left his village in August, 1829, immediately after the execution of
his son, Jean-Francois. With his wife, parents, children and grandchildren, he sailed for America,
where he prospered and founded the town of Tascheronville in the State of Ohio. [The Country
Parson.]

TASCHERON (Jean-Francois), one of the sons of the preceding, born about 1805, a porcelain maker,
working successively with Messieurs Graslin and Philippart; at the end of Charles X.'s reign,
he committed a triple crime which, owing to his excellent character and antecedents, seemed
for a long time inexplicable. Jean-Francois Tascheron fell in love with the wife of his first
employer, Pierre Graslin, and she reciprocated the passion; to prepare a way for them to escape
together, he went one night to the house of Pingret, a rich and miserly husbandman in the Faubourg
Saint-Etienne, robbed him of a large sum of money, and, thinking to assure his safety, murdered
the old man and his servant, Jeanne Malassis. Being arrested, despite his precautions, Jean-Francois
Tascheron made especial effort not to compromise Madame Graslin. Condemned to death, he refused
to confess, and was deaf to the prayers of Pascal, the chaplain, yielding somewhat, however,
to his other visitors, the Abbe Bonnet, his mother, and his sister Denise; as a result of their
influence he restored a considerable portion of the hundred thousand francs stolen. He was
executed at Limoges, in August, 1829. He was the natural father of Francois Graslin. [The Country
Parson.]

TASCHERON (Louis-Marie), a brother of the preceding; with Denise Tascheron (afterwards Denise
Gerard) he fulfilled a double mission: he destroyed the traces of the crime of Jean-Francois,
that might betray Madame Graslin, and restored the rest of the stolen money to Pingret's heirs,
Monsieur and Madame de Vanneaulx. [The Country Parson.]

TASCHERON (Denise), a sister of the preceding. (See Gerard, Madame Gregoire.)

TAUPIN, cure of Soulanges (Bourgogne), cousin of the Sarcus family and Sarcus-Taupin, the miller.
He was a man of ready wit, of happy disposition, and on good terms with all his parishioners.
[The Peasantry.]

TERNNICK (De), Duc de Casa-Real, which name see.

TERRASSE AND DUCLOS, keepers of records at the Palais, in 1822; consulted at that time with
success by Godeschal. [A Start in Life.]

THELUSSON, a banker, one of whose clerks was Lemprun before he entered the Banque de France
as messenger. [The Middle Classs.]

THERESE, lady's-maid to Madame de Nucingen during the Restoration and the reign of Louis Philippe.
[Father Goriot. A Daughter of Eve.]

THERESE, lady's-maid to Madame Xavier Rabourdin, on the rue Duphot, Paris, in 1824. [The Government
Clerks.]

THERESE, lady's-maid to Madame de Rochefide in the latter part of Charles X.'s reign, and during
the reign of Louis Philippe. [Beatrix.]

THERESE (Sister), the name under which Antoinette de Langeais died, after she had taken the
veil, and retired to the convent of bare-footed Carmelites on an island belonging to Spain,
probably the island of Leon. [The Thirteen.]

THIBON (Baron), chief of the Comptoir d'Escompte, in 1818, had been a colleague of Cesar Birotteau,
the perfumer. [Cesar Birotteau.]

THIRION, usher to the closet of King Louis XVIII., was on terms of intimacy with the Ragons,
and was invited to Cesar Birotteau's famous ball on December 17, 1818, together with his wife
and his daughter Amelie, one of Servin's pupils who married Camusot de Marville. [The Vendetta.
Cesar Birotteau.] The emoluments of his position, obtained by the patronage that his zeal deservedly
acquired, enabled him to lay by a considerable sum, which the Camusot de Marvilles inherited.
[Jealousies of a Country Town.]

THOMAS was owner of a large house in Bretagne, that Marie de Verneuil (Madame Alphonse de Montauran)
bought for Francine de Cottin, her lady's maid, and a niece of Thomas. [The Chouans.]

THOMAS (Madame) was a milliner in Paris towards the latter part of the reign of Charles X.;
it was to her establishment that Frederic de Nucingen, after being driven to the famous pastry
shop of Madame Domas, an error arising from his Alsatian pronunciation, betook himself in quest
of a black satin cape, lined with pink, for Esther van Gobseck. [Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.]

THOMIRE contributed to the material splendors of the famous entertainment given by Frederic
Taillefer, about 1831, at his mansion on the rue Joubert, Paris. [The Magic Skin.]

THOREC, an anagram of Hector, and one of the names successively assumed by Baron Hector Hulot
d'Ervy, after deserting his conjugal roof. [Cousin Betty.]

THOREIN, a carpenter, was employed in making changes in Cesar Birotteau's apartments some days
before the famous ball given by the perfumer on December 17, 1818. [Cesar Birotteau.]

THOUL, anagram of the word Hulot, and one of the names successively assumed by Baron Hector
Hulot d'Ervy, after his desertion of the conjugal roof. [Cousin Betty.]

THOUVENIN, famous in his work, but an unreliable tradesman, was employed, in 1818, by Madame
Anselme Popinot (then Mademoiselle Birotteau) to rebind for her father, the perfumer, the works
of various authors. [Cesar Birotteau.] Thouvenin, as an artist, was in love with his own works--like
Servais, the favorite gilder of Elie Magus. [Cousin Pons.]

THUILLIER was first door-keeper of the minister of finance in the second half of the eighteenth
century; by furnishing meals to the clerks he realized from his position a regular annual income
of almost four thousand francs; being married and the father of two children, Marie-Jeanne-Brigitte
and Louis-Jerome, he retired from active duties about 1806, and, losing his wife in 1810, he
himself died in 1814. She began life by making coin-bags at the Bank of France, then engaged
in money-lending; took every advantage of her debtors, among others Fleury, her father's colleague
at the Treasury. Being now rich, she met the Lempruns and the Galards; took upon herself the
management of the small fortune of their heir, Celeste Lemprum, whom she had selected specially
to be the wife of her brother; after their marriage she lived with her brother's family; was
also one of Mademoiselle Colleville's god-mothers. On the rue Saint-Dominique-d'Enfer, and
on the Place de la Madeleine, she showed herself many times to be the friend of Theodose de
la Peyrade, who vainly sought the hand of the future Madame Phellion. [The Government Clerks.
The Middle Classes.]

THUILLIER (Louis-Jerome), younger brother of the preceding, born in 1791. Thanks to his father's
position, he entered the Department of Finance as clerk at an early age. Louis-Jerome Thuillier,
being exempted from military service on account of weak eyes, married Celeste Lemprun, Galard's
wealthy granddaughter, about 1814. Ten years later he had reached the advancement of reporting
clerk, in Xavier Rabourdin's office, Flamet de la Billardiere's division. His pleasing exterior
gave him a series of successes in love affairs, that was continued after his marriage, but
cut short by the Restoration, bringing back, as it did, with peace, the gallants escaped from
the battlefield. Among his amorous conquests may be counted Madame Flavie Colleville, wife
of his intimate friend and colleague at the Treasury; of their relations was born Celeste Colleville--Madame
Felix Phellion. Having been deputy-chief for two years (since January 5, 1828), he left the
Treasury at the outbreak of the Revolution of 1830. In him the office lost an expert in equivocal
jests. Having left the department, Thuillier turned his energies in another direction. Marie-Jeanne-Brigette,
his elder sister, turning him to the intricacies of real estate, made him leave their lodging-place
on the rue d'Argenteuil, to purchase a house on the rue Saint-Dominique-d'Enfer, which had
formerly belonged to President Lecamus and to Petitot, the artist. Thuillier's conceit and
vanity, now that he had become a well-known and important citizen, were greatly flattered when
Theodose de la Peyrade hired apartments from him. M. Thuillier was manager of the "Echo de
la Bievre," signed a certain pamphlet on political economy, was candidate for the Chamber of
Deputies, purchased a second house, in 1840, on the Place de la Madeleine, and was chosen to
succeed J.-J. Popinot as member of the General Council of the Seine. [The Government Clerks.
The Middle Classes.]

THUILLIER (Madame), wife of the preceding; born Celeste Lemprun, in 1794; only daughter of
the oldest messenger in the Bank of France, and, on her mother's side, granddaughter od Galard,
a well-to-do truck-gardener of Auteuil; a transparent blonde, slender, sweet-tempered, religious,
and barren. In her married life, Madame Thuillier was swayed beneath the despotism of her sister-in-law,
Marie-Jeanne-Brigitte, but derived some consolation from the affection of Celeste Colleville,
and, about 1841, contributed as far as her influence permitted, to the marriage of this her
god-daughter. [The Middle Classes.]

TIENNETTE, born in 1769, a Breton who wore her native costume, was, in 1829, the devoted servant
of Madame de Portenduere the elder, on the rue des Bourgeois (now Bezout), Nemours. [Ursule
Mirouet.]

TILLET (Ferdinand du), had legally a right only to the first part of his name, which was given
him on the morning of Saint-Ferdinand's day by the curate of the church of Tillet, a town near
Andelys (Eure). Ferdinand was the son of an unknown great nobleman and a poor countrywoman
of Normandie, who was delivered of her son one night in the curate's garden, and then drowned
herself. The priest took in the new born son of the betrayed mother and took care of him. His
protector being dead, Ferdinand resolved to make his own way in the world, took the name of
his village, was first commercial traveler, and, in 1814, he became head clerk in Birotteau's
perfumery establishment on the rue Saint-Honore, Paris. While there he tried, but without success,
to win Constance Birotteau, his patron's wife, and stole three thousand francs from the cash
drawer. They discovered the theft and forgave the offender, but in such a way that Du Tillet
himself was offended. He left the business and started a bank; being the lover of Madame Roguin,
the notary's wife, he became involved in the business scheme known as "the lands of the Madeleine,"
the original cause of Birotteau's failure and of his own fortune (1818). Ferdinand du Tillet,
now a lynx of almost equal prominence with Nucingen, with whom he was on very intimate terms,
being loved by Mademoiselle Malvina d'Aldrigger, being looked up to by the Kellers also, and
being further the patron of Tiphaine, the Provins Royalist, was able to crush Birotteau, and
triumphed over him, even on December 17, 1818, the evening of the famous ball given by the
perfumer; Jules Desmarets, Benjamin de la Billiardiere, and he were the only perfect types
present of worldly propriety and distinction. It was there that he received Birotteau, imploring
aid, and gave him a letter of recommendation for Nucingen, the result of which was quite different
from what the unfortunate merchant had anticipated. Indeed, it was agreed between the two business
men, if the i's in the letter in question were not dotted, to give a negative answer; by this
intentional omission, Du Tillet ruined the unfortunate Birotteau. He had his bank on the rue
Joubert when Rodolphe Castanier, the dishonest cashier, robbed Nucingen. [Melmoth Reconciled.]
Ferdinand du Tillet was now a consequential personage, when Lucien de Rubempre was making his
start in Paris (1821). [A Distinguished Provincial at Paris.] Ten years later he married his
last daughter to the Comte de Granville, a peer of France, and "one of the most illustrious
names of the French magistracy." He occupied one of the elegant mansions on the rue Neuve-des-Mathurins,
now rue des Mathurins; for a long time he kept Madame Roguin as his mistress; was often seen,
in the Faubourg Saint-Honore, with the Marquise d'Espard, being found there on the day that
Diane de Cadignan was slandered in the presence of Daniel d'Arthez, who was very much in love
with her. With Massol and Raoul Nathan he founded a prominent newspaper, which he used for
his financial interests. He did not hesitate to get rid of Nathan, who was loaded down with
debts; but he found Nathan before him once more, however, as candidate for the Chamber of Deputies,
to succeed Nucingen, who had been made a peer of France; this time, also, he triumphed over
his rival, and was elected. [The Secrets of a Princess. A Daughter of Eve.] M. du Tillet was
no more sparing of Maxime de Trailles, but harassed him pitilessly, when the count was sent
into Champagne as electoral agent of the government. [The Member for Arcis.] He was present
at the fete given by Josepha Mirah, by way of a house-warming, in her mansion on the rue de
la Ville-l'Eveque; Celestin Crevel and Valerie Marneffe invited him to their wedding. [Cousin
Betty.] At the end of the monarchy of July, being a deputy, with his seat in the Left Centre,
Ferdinand du Tillet kept in the most magnificent style Seraphine Sinet, the Opera girl, more
familiarly called Carabine. [The Unconscious Humorists.] There is a biography of Ferdinand
du Tillet, elaborated by the brilliant pen of Jules Claretie, in "Le Temps" of September 5,
1884, under title of "Life in Paris."

TILLET (Madame Ferdinand du), wife of the preceding, born Marie-Eugenie de Granville in 1814,
one of the four children of the Comte and Comtesse de Granville, and younger sister of Madame
Felix de Vandenesse; a blonde like her mother; in her marriage, which took place in 1831, was
a renewal of the griefs that had sobered the years of her youth. Eugenie du Tillet's natural
playfulness of spirit could find vent only with her eldest sister, Angelique-Marie, and their
harmony teacher, W. Schmucke, in whose company the two sisters forgot their father's neglect
and the convent-like rigidness of a devotee's home. Poor in the midst of wealth, deserted by
her husband, and bent beneath an inflexible yoke, Madame du Tillet could lend but too little
aid to her sister--then Madame de Vandenesse--in the trouble caused by a passion she had conceived
for Raoul Nathan. However, she supplied her with two powerful allies--Delphine de Nucingen
and W. Schmucke. As a result of her marriage Madame du Tillet had two children. [A Daughter
of Eve.]

TINTENIAC, known for his part in the Quiberon affair, had among his confederates Jacques Horeau,
who was executed in 1809 with the Chauffeurs of Orne. [The Seamy Side of History.]

TINTI (Clarina), born in Sicily about 1803; was maid in an inn, when her glorious voice came
under the notice of a great nobleman, her fellow-countryman, the Duke Cataneo, who had her
educated. At the age of sixteen, she made her debut with brilliant success at several Italian
theatres. In 1820, she was "prima donna assoluta" of the Fenice theatre, Venice. Being loved
by Genovese, the famous tenor, Tinti was usually engaged with him. Of a passionate nature,
beautiful and capricious, Clarina became enamored of Prince Emilio du Varese, at that time
the lover of the Duchesse Cataneo, and became, for a while, the mistress of that descendant
of the Memmis: the ruined palace of Varese, which Cataneo hired for Tinti, was the scene of
these ephemeral relations. At that time an ardent Royalist, and resting secure under the patronage
of the well-known financiers, Ferdinand du Tillet and Frederic de Nucingen, M. Tiphaine contended
against Gouraud, Vinet, and Rogron, the local representatives of the Liberal party, and for
a considerable time upheld the cause of Mademoiselle Pierrette Lorrain, their victim. Tiphaine,
however, suited himself to the circumstances, and came over to Louis Philippe, the "revolutionist,"
under whose reign he became a member of the Chamber of Deputies; he was "one of the most esteemed
orators of the Centre"; secured his appointment to the judgeship of the court of first instance
of the Seine, and still later he was made president of the royal court. [Pierrette.]

TIPHAINE (Madame), wife of the preceding, born Mathilde-Melanie Roguin, in the early part of
the nineteenth century; the only daughter of a wealthy notary of Paris, noted for his fraudulent
failure in 1819; on her mother's side, granddaughter of Chevrel, the banker, and also distant
cousin of the Guillaumes, and the families of Lebas and Sommervieux. Before her marriage she
was a frequent visitor at the studio of Servin, the artist; she was there "the malicious oracle"
of the Liberal party, and, with Laure, took sides with Ginevra di Piombo against Amelie Thirion,
leader of the aristocratic group. [The Vendetta.] Clever, pretty, coquettish, correct, and
a real Parisian, and protected by Madame Roguin's lover, Ferdinand du Tillet, Mathilde-Melanie
Tiphaine reigned supreme in Provins, in the midst of the Guenee family, represented by Mesdames
Galardon, Lessourd, Martener, and Auffray; took in, or, rather, defended Pierrette Lorrain;
and overwhelmed the Rogron salon with her spirit of raillery. [Pierrette.]

TISSOT (Pierre-Francois), born March 10, 1768, at Versailles, died April 7, 1854; general secretary
of the Maintenance Commission in 1793, successor to Jacques Delille in the chair of Latin poetry
in the College de France; a member of the Academy in 1833, and the author of many literary
and historical works; under the Restoration he was managing editor of the "Pilote," a radical
sheet that published a special edition of the daily news for the provinces, a few hours after
the morning papers. Horace Bianchon, the house-surgeon, there learned of the death of Frederic-Michel
Taillefer, who had been killed in a duel with Franchessini. [Father Goriot.] In the reign of
Louis Philippe, when Charles-Edouard Rusticoli de la Palferine's burning activity vainly sought
an upward turn, Tissot, from the professor's chair, pleaded the cause of the rights and aspirations
of youth that had been ignored and despised by the power surrendered into the hands of superannuated
mossbacks. [A Prince of Bohemia.]

TITO, a young and handsome Italian, in 1823, brought "la liberta e denaro" to the Prince and
Princess Gandolphini, who were at that time impoverished outlaws, living in concealment at
Gersau (canton of Lucerne) under the English name of Lovelace--"L'Ambitieux par Amour." [Albert
Savarus.]

TOBY, born in Ireland about 1807; also called Joby, and Paddy; during the Restoration, Beaudenord's
"tiger" on the Quai Malaquais, Paris; a wonder of precocity in vice; acquired a sort of celebrity
in exercise of his duties, a celebrity that was even reflected on Madame d'Aldrigger's future
son-in-law. [The Firm of Nucingen.] During Louis Philippe's reign, Toby was a servant in the
household of the Duc Georges de Maufrigneuse on the rue Miromesnil. [The Secrets of a Princess.]

TONNELET (Matire), a notary, and son-in-law of M. Gravier of Isere, whose intimate friend was
Benassis, and who was one of the co-workers of that beneficent physician. Tonnelet was thin
and pale, and of medium height; he generally dressed in black, and wore spectacles. [The Country
Doctor.]

TONSARD (Mere), a peasant woman of Bourgogne, born in 1745, was one of the most formidable
enemies of Montcornet, the owner of Aigues, and of his head-keeper, Justine Michaud. She had
killed the keeper's favorite hound and she encroached upon the forest trees, so as to kill
them and take the dead wood off. A reward of a thousand francs having been offered to the person
who should discover the perpetrator of these wrongs, Mere Tonsard had herself denounced by
her granddaughter, Marie Tonsard, in order to secure this sum of money to her family, and she
was sentenced to five years' imprisonment, though she probably did not serve her term. Mere
Bonnebault committed the same offences as Mere Tonsard; they had a quarrel, each wishing to
profit by the advantages of a denunciation, and had ended by referring the matter to the casting
of lots, which resulted in favor of Mere Tonsard. [The Peasantry.]

TONSARD (Francois), son of the preceding, born about 1773, was a country laborer, skilled more
or less in everything; he possessed a hereditary talent, attested, moreover, by his name, for
trimming trees, and various kinds of hedges. Lazy and crafty, Francois Tonsard secured from
Sophie Laguerre, Montcornet's predecessor at Aigues, an acre of land, on which he built, in
1795, the wine-shop known as the Grand-I-Vert. He was saved from conscription by Francois Gaubertin,
at that time steward of Aigues, at the urgent request of Mademoiselle Cochet, their common
mistress. Being then married to Philippine Fourchon, and Gaubertin having become his wife's
lover, he could poach with freedom, and so it was that the Tonsard family made regular levies
on the Aigues forest with impunity: they supplied themselves entirely from the wood of the
forest, kept two cows at the expense of the landlord, and were represented at the harvest by
seven gleaners. Being incommoded by the active watch kept over them by Justine Michaud, Gaubertin's
successor, Tonsard killed him, one night in 1823. Afterwards in the dismemberment of Montcornet's
estate, Tonsard got his share of the spoils. [The Peasantry.]

TONSARD (Madame), wife of the preceding; born Philippe Fourchon; daughter of the Fourchon who
was the natural grandfather of Mouche; large, and of a good figure, with a sort of rustic beauty;
lax in morals; extravagant in her tastes, none the less she assured the prosperity of the Grand-I-Vert,
by reason of her talent as a cook, and her free coquetry. By her marriage she had four children,
two sons and two daughters. [The Peasantry.]

TONSARD (Jean-Louis), born about 1801, son of the preceding, and perhaps also of Francois Gaubertin,
to whom Philippe Tonsard was mistress. Exempted from military service in 1821 on account of
a pretended disorder in the muscles of his right arm, Jean-Louis Tonsard posed under the protection
of Soudry, Rogou and Gaubertin, in a circumspect way, as the enemy of the Montcornets and Michaud.
He was a lover of Annette, Rigou's servant girl. [The Peasantry.]

TONSARD (Nicolas), younger brother of the preceding, and the male counterpart of his sister
Catherine; brutally persecuted, with his sister's connivance, Niseron's granddaughter, Genevieve,
called La Pechina, whom he tried to outrage. [The Peasantry.]

TONSARD (Catherine). (See Godain, Madame.)

TONSARD (Marie), sister of the preceding; a blonde; had the loose and uncivilized morals of
her family. While mistress of Bonnebault, she proved herself, on one occasion at the Cafe de
la Paix of Soulanges, to be fiercely jealous of Aglae Socquard, whom he wished to marry. [The
Peasantry.]

TONSARD (Reine), without any known relationship to all of the preceding, was, in spite of being
very ugly, the mistress of the son of the Oliviers, porters to Valerie Marneffe-Crevel; and
she remained for a long time the confidential lady's-maid of that married courtesan; but, being
brought over by Jacques Collin, she eventually betrayed and ruined the Crevel family. [Cousin
Betty.]

TONY, coachman to Louis de l'Estorade, about 1840. [The Member for Arcis.]

TOPINARD, born about 1805; officer in charge of the property of the theatre managed by Felix
Gaudissart; in charge also of the lamps and fixtures; and, lastly, he had the task of placing
the copies of the music on the musicians' stands. He went every day to the rue Normandie to
get news of Sylvain Pons, who was suffering from a fatal attack of hepatitis; in the latter
part of April, 1845, he was, with Fraisier, Villemot and Sonet's agent, one of the pall-bearers
at the funeral of the cousin of the Camusot de Marvilles. On leaving the Pere-Lachaise, Topinard,
who was living in the Cite Bordin, was moved to compassion for Schmucke, brought him home,
and finally received him under his roof. Topinard then secured the position of cashier with
Gaudissart, but he almost lost his position for trying to defend the interests of Schmucke,
of whom the heirs-at-law of Pons had undertaken to rid themselves. Even under these circumstances
Topinard aided Schmucke in his distress; he alone followed the German's body to the cemetery,
and took pains to have him buried beside Sylvain Pons. [Cousin Pons.]

TOPINARD (Madame Rosalie), wife of the preceding, born about 1815, called Lolotte; she was
a member of the choir under the direction of Felix Gaudissart's predecessor, whose mistress
she was. A victim of her lover's failure, she became box-opener of the first tier, and also
quite a dealer in costumes during the following administration (1834-1845). She had first lived
as Topinard's mistress, but he afterwards married her; she had three children by him. She took
part in the funeral mass of Pons; when Schmucke was taken in by her husband in the Cite Bordin,
she nursed the musician in his last illness. [Cousin Pons.]

TOPINARD, eldest son of the preceding couple, was a supernumerary in Gaudissart's company.
[Cousin Pons.]

TOPINARD (Olga), sister of the preceding; a blonde of the German type; when quite young, she
won the warmest affection of Schmucke, who was making his home with the employes of Gaudissart's
theatre. [Cousin Pons.]

TORLONIA (Duc), a name mentioned, in December, 1829, by the Baron Frederic de Nucingen, as
that of one of his friends, and pronounced by him "Dorlonia." The duke had ordered a magnificent
carpet, the price of which he considered exorbitant, but the baron bought it for Esther van
Gobseck's "leedle balace" on the rue Saint-Georges. The Duc Torlonia belonged to the famous
family of Rome, that was so hospitable to strangers, and was of French origin. The original
name was Tourlogne. [Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.]

TORPILLE (La), sobriquet of Esther van Gobseck.

TOUCHARD, father and son, ran a line of stages, during the Restoration, to Beaumont-sur-Oise.
[A Start in Life.]

TOUCHES (Mademoiselle Felicite des), born at Guerande in 1791; related to the Grandlieus; not
connected with the Touches family of Touraine, to which the regent's ambassador, more famous
as a comic poet, belonged; became an orphan in 1793; her father, a major in the Gardes de la
Porte, was killed on the steps of the Tuileries August 10, 1792, and her only brother, a younger
member of the guard, was massacred at the Carmelite convent; lastly, her mother died of a broken
heart a few days after this last catastrophe. Entrusted then to the care of her maternal aunt,
Mademoiselle de Faucombe, a nun of Chelles,[*] she was taken by her to Faucombe, a considerable
estate situated near Nantes, and soon afterwards she was put in prison along with her aunt
on the charge of being an emissary of Pitt and Cobourg. The 9th Thermidor found them released;
but Mademoiselle de Faucombe died of fright, and Felicite was sent to M. de Faucombe, an archaeologist
of Nantes, being her maternal great-uncle and her nearest relative. She grew up by herself,
"a tom-boy"; she had at her command an enormous library, which allowed her to acquire, at a
very early age, a great mass of information. The literary spirit being developed in her, Mademoiselle
des Touches began by assisting her aged uncle; wrote three articles that he believed were his
own work, and, in 1822, made her beginning in literature with two volumes of dramatic works,
after the fashion of Lope de Vega and Shakespeare, which produced a sort of artistic revolution.
She then assumed as a permanent appellation, the pseudonym of Camille Maupin, and led a bright
and independent life. Her income of eighty thousand livres, her castle of Les Touches, near
Guerande --Loire-Inferieure--her Parisian mansion on the rue de Mont-Blanc--now rue de la Chaussee-d'Antin,--her
birth, and her connections, had their power of influence. Her irregularities were covered as
with a veil, in consideration of her genius. Indeed, Mademoiselle des Touches had more than
one lover: a gallant about 1817; then an original mind, a sceptic, the real creator of Camille
Maupin; and next Gennaro Conti, whom she knew in Rome, and Claude Vignon, a critic of reputation.
[Beatrix. Lost Illusions. A Distinguished Provincial at Paris.] Felicite was a patron of Joseph
Bridau, the romantic painter, who was despised by the bourgeois [A Bachelor's Establishment.];
she felt a liking for Lucien de Rubempre, whom, indeed, she came near marrying; though this
circumstance did not prevent her from aiding the poet's mistress, Coralie, the actress; for,
at the time of their amours, Felicite des Touches was in high favor at the Gymnase. She was
the anonymous collaborator of a comedy into which Leontine Volnys--the little Fay of that time--was
introduced; she had intended to write another vaudeville play, in which Coralie was to have
made the principal role. When the young actress took to her bed and died, which occurred under
the Poirson-Cerfberr[+] management, Felicite paid the expenses of her burial, and was present
at the funeral services, which were conducted at Notre-Dame de Bonne-Nouvelle. She gave dinner-parties
on Wednesdays; Levasseur, Conti, Mesdames Pasta, Conti, Fodor, De Bargeton, and d'Espard, attended
her receptions. [A Distinguished Provincial at Paris.] Although a Legitimist, like the Marquise
d'Espard, Felicite, after the Revolution of July, kept her salon open, where were frequently
assembled her neighbor Leontine de Serizy, Lord Dudley and Lady Barimore, the Nucingens, Joseph
Bridau, Mesdames de Cadignan and de Montcornet, the Comtesse de Vandenesse, Daniel d'Arthez,
and Madame Rochegude, otherwise known as Rochefide. Canalis, Rastignac, Laginski, Montriveau,
Bianchon, Marsay, and Blondet rivaled each other in telling piquant stories and passing caustic
remarks under her roof. [Another Study of Woman.] Furthermore, Mademoiselle des Touches shortly
afterwards gave advice to Marie de Vandenesse and condemned free love. [A Daughter of Eve.]
In 1836, while traveling through Italy, which she was showing to Claude Vignon and Leon de
Lora, the landscape painter, she was present at an entertainment given by Maurice de l'Hostal,
the French consul at Genoa; on this occasion he gave an account of the ups and downs of the
Bauvan family. [Honorine.] In 1837, after having appointed as her residuary legatee Calyste
du Guenic, whom she adored, but to whom she refused to give herself over, Felicite des Touches
retired to a convent in Nantes of the order of Saint-Francois. Among the works left by this
second George Sand, we may mention "Le Nouveau Promethee," a bold attempt, standing alone among
her works, and a short autobiographical romance, in which she described her betrayed passion
for Conti, an admirable work, which was regarded as the counterpart of Benjamin Constant's
"Adolphe." [Beatrix. The Muse of the Department.]

[*] It was perhaps at Chelles that Mademoiselle de Faucombe became
    acquainted with Mesdemoiselles de Beauseant and de Langeais.

[+] Delestre-Poirson, the vaudeville man, together with A. Cerfberr
    established the Gymnase-Dramatique, December 20, 1820; with the
    Cerfberr Brothers, Delestre-Poirson continued the management of it
    until 1844.

TOUPILLIER, born about 1750; of a wretchedly poor family consisting of three sisters and five
brothers, one of whom was father of Madame Cardinal. From drum-major in the Gardes-Francaise,
Toupillier became beadle in the church of Saint-Sulpice, Paris; then dispenser of holy water,
having been an artist's model in the meantime. Toupillier, at the beginning of the Restoration,
suspected either of being a Bonapartist, or of being unfit for his position, was discharged
from the service of the church, and had only the right to stand at the threshold as a privileged
beggar; however, he profited greatly by his new position, for he knew how to arouse the compassionate
feelings of the faithful in every possible way, chiefly by passing as a centenarian. Having
been entrusted with the diamonds that Charles Crochard had stolen from Mademoiselle Beaumesnil
and which the young thief wished to get off his hands for the time being, Toupillier denied
having received them and remained possessor of the stolen jewels. But Corentin, the famous
police-agent, followed the pauper of Saint-Sulpice to the rue du Coeur-Volant, and surprised
that new Cardillac engrossed in the contemplation of the diamonds. He, however, left them in
his custody, on condition of his leaving by will all his property to Lydie Peyrade, Corentin's
ward and Mademoiselle Beaumesnil's daughter. Corentin further required Toupillier to live in
his house and under his surveillance on the rue Honore-Chevalier. At that time Toupillier had
an income of eighteen hundred francs; he might be seen, at the church, munching wretched crusts;
but, the church once closed, he went to dine at the Lathuile restaurant, situated on the Barriere
de Clichy, and at night he got drunk on the excellent Rousillon wines. Notwithstanding an attack
made by Madame Cardinal and Cerizet on the closet containing the diamonds, when the pauper
of Saint-Sulpice died in 1840, Lydie Peyrade, now Madame Theodose de la Peyrade, inherited
all that Toupillier possessed. [The Middle Classes.]

TOUPINET, a Parisian mechanic, at the time of the Restoration, being married and father of
a family, he stole his wife's savings, the fruit of arduous labor; he was imprisoned, about
1828, probably for debts. [The Commission in Lunacy.]

TOUPINET (Madame), wife of the preceding; known under the name Pomponne; kept a fruit-stand;
lived, in 1828, on the rue du Petit-Banquier, Paris; unhappy in her married life; obtained
from the charitable J.-J. Popinot, under the name of a loan, ten francs for purchasing stock.
[The Commission in Lunacy.]

TOURNAN, a hatter of the rue Saint-Martin, Paris; among his customers was young Poiret, who,
on July 3, 1823, brought him his head-covering, all greased, as a result of J.-J. Bixiou's
practical joking. [The Government Clerks.]

TOURS-MINIERES (Bernard-Polydor Bryond, Baron des), a gentleman of Alencon; born about 1772;
in 1793, was one of the most active emissaries of the Comte de Lille (Louis XVIII.), in his
conspiracy against the Republic. Having received the King's thanks, he retired to his estate
in the department of Orne, which had long been burdened with mortgages; and, in 1807, he married
Henriette Le Chantre de la Chanterie, with the concurrence of the Royalists, whose "pet" he
was. He pretended to take part in the reactionary revolutionary movement of the West in 1809,
implicated his wife in the matter, compromised her, ruined her, and then disappeared. Returning
in secrecy to his country, under the assumed name of Lemarchand, he aided the authorities in
getting at the bottom of the plot, and then went to Paris, where he became the celebrated police-agent
Contenson. [The Seamy Side of History.] He knew Peyrade, and received from Lenoir's old pupil
the significant sobriquet of "Philosopher." Being agent for Fouche during the period of the
Empire, he abandoned himself in the most sensual way to his passions, and lived a life of irregularity
and vice. During the time of the Restoration Louchard had him employed by Nucingen at the time
of the latter's amours with Esther van Gobseck. In the service of this noted banker, Contenson
(with Peyrade and Corentin) tried to protect him from the snares of Jacques Collin, and followed
the pseudo-Carlos Herrera to his place of refuge on a house-top; but being hurled from the
roof by his intended victim, he was instantly killed during the winter of 1829-1830. [Scenes
from a Courtesan's Life.]

TOURS-MINIERES (Baronne Bryond des), wife of the preceding; born Henriette Le Chantre de la
Chanterie, in 1789; only daughter of Monsieur and Madame Le Chantre de la Chanterie; was married
after her father's death. Betrayed by her husband, she was executed in 1810, in accordance
with a death-sentence of the court presided over by Mergi, Bourlac being attorney-general.
[The Seamy Side of History.]

TRAILLES (Comte Maxime de), born in 1791, belonged to a family that was descended from an attendant
to Louis XI., and raised to the nobility by Francois I. This perfect example of the Parisian
condottieri made his beginning in the early part of the nineteenth century as a page to Napoleon.
Being loved, in turn, by Sarah Gobseck and Anastasie de Restaud, Maxime de Trailles, himself
already ruined, ruined both of these; gaming was his master passion, and his caprices knew
no bounds. [Cesar Birotteau. Father Goriot. Gobseck.] He took under his attention the Vicomte
Savinien de Portenduere, a novice in Parisian life, whom also he would have served later as
his second against Desire Minoret, but for the latter's death by accident. [Ursule Mirouet.]
His ready wit usually saved him from the throng of creditors that swarmed about him, but even
thus he once paid a debt due Cerizet, in spite of himself. Maxime de Trailles, at that time,
was keeping, in a modest way, Antonia Chocardelle, who had a news-stand on the rue Coquenard,
near the rue Pigalle, on which Trailles lived; and, at the same time, a certain Hortense, a
protegee of Lord Dudley, was seconding the genius of that excellent comedian, Cerizet. [A Man
of Business. The Member for Arcis.] The dominant party of the Restoration accused Maxime de
Trailles of being a Bonapartist, and rebuked him for his shameless corruption of life; but
the citizen monarchy extended him a cordial welcome. Marsay was the chief promoter of the count's
fortunes; he moulded him, and sent him on delicate political missions, which he managed with
marvelous success. [The Secrets of a Princess.] And so the Comte de Trailles was widely known
in social circles: as the guest of Josepha Mirah, by his presence he honored the house-warming
in her new apartments on the rue de la Ville-l'Eveque. [Cousin Betty.] Marsay being dead, he
lost the power of his prestige. Eugene de Rastignac, who had become somewhat of a Puritan,
showed but slight esteem for him. However, Maxime de Trailles was on easy terms with one of
the minister's intimate friends, the brilliant Colonel Franchessini. Nucingen's son-in-law--Eugene
de Rastignac--perhaps recalled Madame de Restaud's misfortunes, and doubtless entertained no
good feeling for the man who was responsible for them all. None the less, he employed the services
of M. de Trailles--who was always at ease in the Marquise d'Espard's salon, in the Faubourg
Saint-Honore, though a man over forty years of age, painted and padded and bowed down with
debts--and sent him to look after the political situation in Arcis before the spring election
of 1839. Trailles worked his wires with judgment; he tried to override the Cinq-Cygnes, partisans
of Henri V.; he supported the candidacy of Phileas Beauvisage, and sought the hand of Cecile-Renee
Beauvisage, the wealthy heiress, but was unsuccessful on all sides. [The Member for Arcis.]
M. de Trailles, furthermore, excelled in the adjustment of private difficulties. M. d'Ajuda-Pinto,
Abbe Brossette, and Madame de Grandlieu called for his assistance, and, with the further aid
of Rusticoli de la Palferine, effected the reconciliation of the families of Calyste du Guenic
and Arthur de Rochefide. [Beatrix.] He became a member of the Chamber of Deputies, succeeding
Phileas Beauvisage, who had replaced Charles de Sallenauve, at the Palais-Bourbon; here he
was pointed out to S.-P. Gazonal. [The Unconscious Humorists.]

TRANS (Mademoiselle), a young unmarried woman of Bordeaux, who, like Mademoiselle de Belor,
was on the lookout for a husband when Paul de Manerville married Natalie Evangelista. [A Marriage
Settlement.]

TRANSON (Monsieur and Madame), wholesale dealers in earthenware goods on the rue des Lesdiguieres,
were on intimate terms, about 1824, with their neighbors, the Baudoyers and the Saillards.
[The Government Clerks.]

TRAVOT (General), with his command, conducted, in 1815, the siege of Guerande, a fortress defended
by the Baron du Guenic, who finally evacuated it, but who reached the wood with his Chouans
and remained in possession of the country until the second return of the Bourbons. [Beatrix.]

TROGNON (Maitre), a Parisian notary, wholly at the disposal of his neighbor, Maitre Fraisier;
during the years 1844-1845 he lived on the rue Saint-Louis-au-Marais--now rue de Turenne--and
reached the death-bed of Sylvain Pons before his colleague, Maitre Leopold Hannequin, though
the latter actually received the musician's last wishes. [Cousin Pons.]

TROISVILLE (Guibelin, Vicomte de), whose name is pronounced Treville, and who, as well as his
numerous family, bore simply the name Guibelin during the period of the Empire; he belonged
to a noble line of ardent Royalists well known in Alencon. [The Seamy Side of History.] Very
probably several of the Troisvilles, as well as the Chevalier de Valois and the Marquis d'Esgrignon,
were among the correspondents of the Vendean chiefs, for it is well known that the department
of Orne was counted among the centres of the anti-revolutionary uprising (1799). [The Chouans.]
Furthermore, the Bourbons, after their restoration, overwhelmed the Troisvilles with honors,
making several of them members of the Chamber of Deputies or peers of France. The Vicomte Guibelin
de Troisville served during the emigration in Russia, where he married a Muscovite girl, daughter
of the Princesse Scherbeloff; and, during the year 1816, he returned to establish himself permantly
among the people of Alencon. Accepting temporarily the hospitality of Rose-Victoire Cormon
(eventually Madame du Bousquier), he innocently inspired her with false hopes; the viscount,
naturally reserved, failed to inform her of his being son-in-law of Scherbeloff, and legitimate
father of the future Marechale de Montcornet. Guibelin de Troisville, a loyal social friend
of the Esgrignons, met in their salon the Roche-Guyons and the Casterans, distant cousins of
his, but the intimate relations almost came to an end, when Mademoiselle Virginie de Troisville
became Madame de Montcornet. [Jealousies of a Country Town.] However, in spite of this union,
which he looked upon as a mesalliance, the viscount was never cool towards his daughter and
her husband, but was their guest at Aigues, in Bourgogne. [The Peasantry.]

TROMPE-LA-MORT, a sobriquet of Jacques Collin.

TROUBERT (Abbe Hyacinthe), favorite priest of M. de Bourbonne; rose rapidly during the Restoration
and Louis Philippe's reign, canon and vicar-general, in turn, of Tours, he was afterwards bishop
of Troyes. His early career in Touraine showed him to be a deep, ambitious, and dangerous man,
knowing how to remove from his path those that impeded his advance, and knowing how to conceal
the full power of his animosity. The secret support of the Congregation and the connivance
of Sophie Gamard allowed him to take advantage of Abbe Francois Birotteau's unsuspecting good
nature, and to rob him of all the inheritance of Abbe Chapeloud, whom he had hated in his lifetime,
and over whom he triumphed thus again, despite the shrewdness of the deceased priest. Abbe
Troubert even won over to his side the Listomeres, defenders of Francois Birotteau. [The Vicar
of Tours.] About 1839, at Troyes, Monsiegneur Troubert was on terms of intimacy with the Cinq-Cygnes,
the Hauteserres, the Cadignans, the Maufrigneuses, and Daniel d'Arthez, who were more or less
concerned in the matter of the Champagne elections. [The Member for Arcis.]

TROUSSENARD (Doctor), a physician of Havre, during the Restoration, at the time that the Mignon
de la Bastie family lived in that sub-prefecture of the Seine-Inferieure. [Modeste Mignon.]

TRUDON, in 1818, a grocer of Paris, in the same quarter as Cesar Birotteau, whom he furnished,
on December 17th of that year, with nearly two hundred francs' worth of wax candles. [Cesar
Birotteau.]

TULLIA, professional sobriquet of Madame du Bruel.

TULLOYE, the name of the owner of a small estate near Angouleme, where M. de Bargeton, in the
autumn of 1821, severely wounded M. de Chandour, an unsophisticated hot-head, whom he had challenged
to a duel. The name Tulloye furnished a good opportunity in the affair for a play on words.
[Lost Illusions.]

TURQUET (Marguerite), born about 1816, better known under the sobriquet of Malaga, having a
further appellaton of the "Aspasia of the Cirque-Olympique," was originally a rider in the
famous Bouthor Traveling Hippodrome, and was later a Parisian star at the Franconi theatre,
in the summer on the Champs-Elysees, in the winter on the Boulevard du Crime. In 1837, Mademoiselle
Turquet was living in the fifth story of a house on the rue des Fosses-du-Temple--a thoroughfare
that has been built up since 1862--when Thaddee Paz set her up in sumptuous style elsewhere.
But she wearied of the role of supposed mistress of the Pole. [The Imaginary Mistress.] Nevertheless,
this position had placed Marguerite in a prominent light, and she shone thenceforth among the
artists and courtesans. She had in Maitre Cardot, a notary on the Place du Chatelet, an earnest
protector; and as her lover she had a quite young musician. [The Muse of the Department.] A
shrewd girl, she held on to Maitre Cardot, and made a popular hostess, in whose salon Desroches,
about 1840, gave an entertaining account of a strange battle between two roues, Trailles and
Cerizet, debtor and creditor, that resulted in a victory for Cerizet. [The Peasantry.]

URRACA, aged Spanish woman, nurse of Baron de Macumer; the only family servant kept by her
master after his ruin and during his exile in France. Urraca prepared the baron's chocolate
in the very best style. [Letters of Two Brides.]

URRACA Y LORA (Mademoiselle), paternal aunt of Leon de Lora, remained a spinster. As late as
1845 this quasi-Spaniard was still living in poverty in a commune of the Pyrenees-Orientales,
with the father and elder brother of the artist. [The Unconscious Humorists.]

URSULE, servant employed by the Abbe Bonnet, cure of Montegnac, in 1829; a woman of canonical
age. She received the Abbe de Rastignac, who had been sent by the Bishop of Limoges to bring
the village curate to Jean-Francois Tascheron. It was desired that this man, although he was
condemned to death, should be brought back within the "pale of the Church." Ursule learned
from the Abbe de Rastignac of the reprieve that had been given the murderer, and being not
only inquisitive, but also a gossip; she spread it throughout the whole village, during the
time that she was buying the articles necessary for the preparation of breakfast for the Cure
Bonnet and the Abbe de Rastignac. [The Village Parson.]

URSULE, from Picardie, very large; cook employed by Ragon, perfumer on rue Saint-Honore, Paris,
towards the end of the eighteenth century; about 1793 she took in hand the amorous education
of Cesar Birotteau, the little Tourraine peasant just employed by the Ragons as errand-boy.
Ill-natured, wanton, wheedling, dishonest, selfish and given to drink, Ursule did not suit
the candid Cesar, whom she abandoned, moreover, two years later, for a young Picardie rebel,
who owned a few acres of land. He found concealment in Paris, and let her marry him. [Cesar
Birotteau.]

UXELLES (Marquise d'), related to the Princess de Blamont-Chauvry, and to the Duc and Duchesse
de Lenoncourt; god-mother of Cesar Birotteau. [Cesar Birotteau.]

UXELLES (Duchesse d'), born about 1769, mother of Diane d'Uxelles; beloved by the Duc de Maufrigneuse,
and about 1814 gave him her daughter in marriage; ten years later she withdrew to her Uxelles
estate, where she lived a life of piety and selfishness. [The Secrets of a Princess.]

                                  V

VAILLANT (Madame), wife of a cabinet-maker in the Faubourg Saint-Antoine; mother of three children.
In 1819 and 1820, for forty sous per month, she kept house for a young author,[*] who lived
in a garret in rue Lesdiguieres. She utilized her remaining time in turning the crank for a
mechanic, and received only ten sous a day for this hard work. This woman and her husband were
perfectly upright. At the wedding of Madame Vaillant's sister, the young writer became acquainted
with Pere Canet--Facino Cane--clarinetist at the Quinze-Vingts--who told him his strange story.
[Facino Cane.] In 1818, Madame Vaillant, already aged, kept house for Claude-Joseph Pillerault,
the former Republican, on rue des Bourdonnais. The old merchant was good to his servant and
did not let her shine his shoes. [Cesar Birotteau.]

[*] Honore de Balzac. He employed Madame Vaillant as a servant.

VALDES (Paquita), born in the West Indies about 1793, daughter of a slave bought in Georgia
on account of her great beauty; lived in the early part of the Restoration and during the Hundred
Days in Hotel San-Real, rue Saint-Lazare, Paris, with her mother and her foster-father, Christemio.
In April, 1815, in the Jardin des Tuileries, she was met by Henri de Marsay, who loved her.
She agreed to receive him secretly in her own home. She gave up everything for his sake, but
in a transport of love, she cried out from force of habit: "O Mariquita!" This put her lover
in such a fury that he tried to kill her. Not being able to do this, he returned, accompanied
by some other members of "The Thirteen," only to find Paquita murdered; for, the Marquise de
San-Real, Marsay's own sister, who was very jealous of the favors granted the man by this girl,
has slashed her savagely with a dagger. Having been kept in retirement since she was twelve
years old, Paquita Valdes knew neither how to read nor to write. She spoke only English and
Spanish. On account of the peculiar color of her eyes she was known as "the girl with the golden
eyes," by some young men, one of whom was Paul de Manerville, who had noticed her during his
promenades. [The Thirteen.]

VALDEZ, a Spanish admiral, constitutional minister of King Ferdinand VII. in 1820; was obliged
to flee at the time of the reaction, and embarked on an English vessel. His escape was due
to the warning given him by Baron de Macumer, who told him in time. [Letters of Two Brides.]

VALENTIN (De), head of a historic house of Auvergne, which had fallen into poverty and obscurity;
cousin of the Duc de Navarreins; came to Paris under the monarchy, and made for himself an
excellent place at the "very heart of power." This he lost during the Revolution. Under the
Empire he bought many pieces of property given by Napoleon to his generals; but the fall of
Napoleon ruined him completely. He reared his only son, Raphael, with great harshness, although
he expected him to restore the house to its former position. In the autumn of 1826, six months
after he had paid his creditors, he died of a broken heart. The Valentins had on their arms:
an eagle of gold in a field of sable, crowned with silver, beak and talons with gules, with
this device: "The soul has not perished." [The Magic Skin.]

VALENTIN (Madame de), born Barbe-Marie O'Flaharty, wife of the preceding; heiress of a wealthy
house; died young, leaving to her only son an islet in the Loire. [The Magic Skin.]

VALENTIN (Marquis Raphael de),[*] only son of the preceding couple, born in 1804, and probably
in Paris, where he was reared; lost his mother when he was very young, and, after an unhappy
childhood, received on the death of his father the sum of eleven hundred and twelve francs.
On this he lived for nearly three years, boarding at the rate of a franc per day at the Hotel
de Saint-Quintin, rue des Cordiers. He began two great works there: a comedy, which was to
bring him fame in a day, and the "Theory of the Will," a long work, like that of Louis Lambert,
meant to be a continuation of the books by Mesmer, Lavater, Gall and Bichat. Raphael de Valentin
as a doctor of laws was destined by his father for the life of a statesman. Reduced to extreme
poverty, and deprived of his last possession, the islet in the Loire, inherited from his mother,
he was on the point of committing suicide, in 1830, when a strange dealer in curiosities of
the Quai Voltaire, into whose shop he had entered by chance, gave him a strange piece of shagreen,
the possession of which assured him the gratification of every desire, although his life would
be shortened by each wish. Shortly after this he was invited to a sumptuous feast at Frederic
Taillefer's. On the next morning Raphael found himself heir to six million francs. In the autumn
of 1831 he died of consumption in the arms of Pauline Gaudin; they were mutual lovers. He tried
in vain to possess himself of her, in a supreme effort. As a millionaire, Raphael de Valentin
lived in friendship with Rastignac and Blondet, looked after by his faithful servant, Jonathas,
in a house on rue de Varenne. At one time he was madly in love with a certain Comtesse Foedora.
Neither the waters of Aix, nor those of Mont-Dore, both of which he tried, were able to give
him back his lost health. [The Magic Skin.]

[*] During the year 1851, at the Ambigu-Comique, was performed a drama
    by Alphonse Arnault and Louis Judicis, in which the life of
    Raphael Valentin was reproduced.

VALENTINE, given name and title of the heroine of a vaudeville play[*] in two acts, by Scribe
and Melesville, which was performed at the Gymnase-Dramatique, January 4, 1836. This was more
than twenty years after the death of M. and Madame de Merret, whose lives and tragic adventures
were more or less vividly pictured in the play. [The Muse of the Department.]

[*] Madame Eugenie Savage played the principal part.

VALLAT (Francois), deputy to the king's attorney at Ville-aux-Fayes, Bourgogne, under the Restoration,
at the time of the peasant uprising against General de Montcornet. He was a cousin of Madame
Sarcus, wife of Sarcus the Rich. He sought promotion through Gaubertin, the mayor, who was
influential throughout the entire district. [The Peasantry.]

VALLET, haberdasher in Soulanges, Bourgogne, during the Restoration, at the time of General
de Montcornet's struggle against the peasants. The Vallet house was next to Socquard's Cafe
de la Paix. [The Peasantry.]

VAL-NOBLE (Madame du). (See Gaillard, Madame Theodore.)

VALOIS (Chevalier de), born about 1758; died, as did his friend and fellow-countryman, the
Marquis d'Esgrignon, with the legitimate monarchy, August, 1830. This poor man passed his youth
in Paris, where he was surprised by the Revolution. He was finally a Chouan, and when the western
Whites arose in arms against the Republic, he was one of the members of the Alencon royal committee.
At the time of the Restoration he was living in this city very modestly, but received by the
leading aristocracy of the province as a true Valois. The chevalier carried snuff in an old
gold snuffbox, ornamented with the picture of the Princess Goritza, a Hungarian, celebrated
for her beauty, under Louis XV. He spoke only with emotion of this woman, for whom he had battled
with Lauzun. The Chevalier de Valois tried vainly to marry the wealthy heiress of Alencon,
Rose-Victoire Cormon, a spinster, who had the misfortune to become the wife, platonically speaking,
of M. du Bousquier, the former contractor. In his lodging at Alencon with Madame Lardot, a
laundress, the chevalier had as mistress one of the working women, Cesarine, whose child was
usually attributed to him. Cesarine was, as a result, the sole legatee of her lover. The chevalier
also took some liberties with another employe of Madame Lardot, Suzanne, a very beautiful Norman
girl, who was afterwards known at Paris as a courtesan, under the name of Val-Noble, and who
still later married Theodore Gaillard. M. de Valois, although strongly attached to this girl,
did not allow her to defraud him. Valois made a living by gambling, but pretended to gain his
modest livelihood from a Maitre Bordin, in the name of a certain M. de Pombreton. [The Chouans.
Jealousies of a Country Town.]

VANDENESSE (Marquis de), a gentleman of Tours; had by his wife four children: Charles, who
married Emilie de Fontaine, widow of Kergarouet; Felix, who married Marie-Angelique de Granville;
and two daughters, the elder of whom was married to her cousin, the Marquis de Listomere. The
Vandenesse motto was: "Ne se vend." [The Lily of the Valley.]

VANDENESSE (Marquise de), born Listomere, wife of the preceding; tall, slender, emaciated,
selfish and fond of cards; "insolent, like all the Listomeres, with whom insolence always counts
as a part of the dowry." She was the mother of four children, whom she reared harshly, keeping
them at a distance, especially her son Felix. She had something of a weakness for her son Charles,
the elder. [The Lily of the Valley.]

VANDENESSE (Marquis Charles de), son of the preceding, born towards the close of the eighteenth
century; shone as a diplomatist under the Bourbons; during this period was the lover of Madame
Julie d'Aiglemont, wife of General d'Aiglemont; by her he had some natural children. With Desroches
as his attorney, Vandenesse entered into a suit with his younger brother, Comte Felix, in regard
to some financial matters. He married the wealthy widow of Kergarouet, born Emilie de Fontaine.
[A Woman of Thirty. A Start in Life. A Daughter of Eve.]

VANDENESSE (Marquise Charles de), born Emilie de Fontaine about 1802; the youngest of the Comte
de Fontaine's daughters; having been overindulged as a child, her insolent bearing, a distinctive
trait of character, was made manifest at the famous ball of Cesar Birotteau, to which she accompanied
her parents. [Cesar Birotteau.] She refused Paul de Manerville, and a number of other excellent
offers, before marrying her mother's uncle, Admiral Comte de Kergarouet. This marriage, which
she regretted later, was resolved upon during a game of cards with the Bishop of Persepolis,
as a result of the anger which she felt on learning that M. Longueville, on whom she had centred
her affections, was only a merchant. [The Ball at Sceaux.] Madame de Kergarouet scorned her
nephew by marriage, Savinien de Portenduere, who courted her. [Ursule Mirouet.] Having become
a widow, she married the Marquis de Vandenesse. A little later she endeavored to overthrow
her sister-in-law, the Comtesse Felix de Vandenesse, then in love with Raoul Nathan. [A Daughter
of Eve.]

VANDENESSE (Comte Felix de), brother-in-law of the preceding, born late in the eighteenth century,
bore the title of vicomte until the death of his father; suffered much in childhood and youth,
first in his home life, then as a pupil in a boarding-school at Tours and in the Oratorien
college at Pontlevoy. He was unhappy also at the Lepitre school in Paris, and during his holidays
spent on the Ile Saint-Louis with one of the Listomeres, a kinswoman. Felix de Vandenesse at
last found happiness at Frapesle, a castle near Clochegourde. It was then that his platonic
liaison with Madame de Mortsauf began--a union which occupied an important place in his life.
He was, moreover, the lover of Lady Arabelle Dudley, who called him familiarly Amedee, pronounced
"my dee." Madame de Mortsauf, having died, he was subjected to the secret hatred of her daughter
Madeleine, later Madame de Lenoncourt-Givry-Chaulieu. About this time began his career in public
life. During the "Hundred Days" Louis XVIII. entrusted to him a mission in Vendee. The King
received him into favor, and finally employed him as private secretary. He was also appointed
master of petitions in the State Council. Vandenesse frequently visited the Lenoncourts. He
excited admiration, mingled with envy, in the mind of Lucien de Rubempre, who had recently
arrived in Paris. Acting for the King, he helped Cesar Birotteau. He was acquainted with the
Prince de Talleyrand, and asked of him information about Macumer, for Louise de Chaulieu. [A
Start in Life.] At this time, Comte Felix de Vandenesse began a very close relationship with
Natalie de Manerville. She herself broke this off as a result of the detailed description that
he gave her of the love which he had formerly felt for Madame de Mortsauf. [The Marriage Settlement.]
The year following, he married Angelique-Marie de Granville, elder daughter of the celebrated
magistrate of that name, and began to keep house on rue du Rocher, where he had a house, furnished
with the best of taste. At first he was not able to gain his wife's affection, as his known
profligacy and his patronizing manners filled her with fear. She did not go with him to the
evening entertainment given by Madame d'Espard, where he found himself with his elder brother,
and where many gossiping tongues directed their speech against Diane de Cadignan, despite the
presence of her lover, Arthez. Felix de Vandenesse went with his wife to a rout at the home
of Mademoiselle des Touches, where Marsay told the story of his first love. The Comte and Comtesse
de Vandenesse, who, under Louis Philippe, still frequented the houses of the Cadignans and
the Montcornets, came very near having serious trouble. Madame de Vandenesse, had foolishly
fallen in love with Raoul Nathan, but was kept from harm by her husband's skilful management.
In bearing the cruel treatment of her prejudiced mother, in the Marais house, where she spent
her youth, the Comtesse Felix was consoled by the tender affection of a younger sister, Marie-Eugenie,
later Madame F. du Tillet. The lessons in harmony given them by Wilhelm Schmucke afforded them
some diversion. Married about 1828, and dowered handsomely, to the detriment of Marie-Eugenie,
she underwent, when about twenty-five years old, a critical experience. Although mother of
at least one child, becoming suddenly of a romantic turn of mind, she narrowly escaped becoming
the victim of a worldly conspiracy formed against her by Lady Dudley and by Mesdames Charles
de Vandenesse and de Manerville. Marie, moved by the strength of her passion for the writer,
Raoul Nathan, and wishing to save him from financial trouble, appealed to the good offices
of Madame de Nucingen and to the devotion of Schmucke. The proof furnished to her by her husband
of the debasing relations and the extreme Bohemian life of Raoul, kept Madame Felix de Vandenesse
from falling. [A Second Home. A Daughter of Eve.] Afterwards, her adventure, the dangers which
she had run, and her rupture with the poet, were all recounted by M. de Clagny, in the presence
of Madame de la Baudraye, Lousteau's mistress. [The Muse of the Department.]

VANDENESSE (Alfred de), son of the Marquis Charles de Vandenesse, a coxcomb who, under the
reign of Louis Philippe, at the Faubourg Saint-Germain, compromised the reputation of the Comtesse
de Saint-Hereen, despite the presence of her mother, Madame d'Aiglemont, the former mistress
of the marquis. [A Woman of Thirty.]

VANDIERES (General, Comte de), old, feeble and childish, when, with his wife and a large number
of soldiers, November 29, 1812, he started on a raft to cross the Beresina. When the boat struck
the other bank the shock threw the count into the river. His head was severed from his body
by a cake of ice, and went down the river like a cannon-ball. [Farewell.]

VANDIERES (Comtesse Stephanie de), wife of the preceding, niece of the alienist Doctor Fanjat;
mistress of Major de Sucy, who afterwards was a general. In 1812, during the campaign in Russia,
she shared with her husband all the dangers, and managed to cross the Beresina with her lover's
aid, although she was unable to rejoin him. She wandered for a long time in northern or eastern
Europe. Having become insane, she could say nothing but the word "Farewell"! She was found
later at Strasbourg by the grenadier, Fleuriot. Having been taken to the Bons-Hommes near the
Isle-Adam, she was attended by Fanjat. She there had as a companion an idiot by the name of
Genevieve. In September, 1819, Stephanie again saw Philippe de Sucy, but did not recognize
him. She died not far from Saint-Germain-en-Laye, January, 1820, soon after the reproduction
of the scene on the Beresina, arranged by her lover. Her sudden return of reason killed her.
[Farewell.]

VANIERE, gardener to Raphael de Valentin; obtained from the well, into which his frightened
employer had thrown it, the wonderful piece of shagreen, which no weight, no reagent, and no
pounding could either stretch or injure, and which none of the best known scientists could
explain. [The Magic Skin.]

VANNEAULX (Monsieur and Madame des), small renters at Limoges, living with their two children
on rue des Cloches towards the end of Charles X.'s reign. They inherited in the neighborhood
of a hundred thousand francs from Pingret, of whom Madame des Vanneaulx was the only niece.
This was after their uncle's murderer, J.-F. Tascheron, having been urged by the Cure Bonnet,
restored a large portion of the money stolen in Faubourg Saint-Etienne. M. and Madame des Vanneaulx,
who had accused the murderer of "indelicacy," changed their opinion entirely when he made this
restitution. [The Country Parson.]

VANNI (Elisa), a Corsican woman who, according to one Giacomo, rescued a child, Luigi Porta,
from the fearful vendetta of Bartolomeo di Piombo. [The Vendetta.]

VANNIER, patriot, conscript of Fougeres, Bretagne, during the autumn of 1799 received an order
to convey marching orders to the National Guard of his city--a body of men who were destined
to aid the Seventy-second demi-brigade in its engagements with the Chouans. [The Chouans.]

VARESE (Emilio Memmi, Prince of), of the Cane-Memmis, born in 1797, a member of the greater
nobility, descendant of the ancient Roman family of Memmius, received the name of Prince of
Varese on the death of Facino Cane, his relative. During the time of Austrian rule in Venice,
Memmi lived there in poverty and obscurity. In the early part of the Restoration he was on
friendly terms with Marco Vendramini, his fellow-countryman. His poverty would not permit of
his keeping more than one servant, the gondolier, Carmagnola. For Massimilla Doni, wife of
the Duke Cataneo, he felt a passion, which was returned, and which for a long time remained
platonic, despite its ardor. He was unfaithful to her at one time, not being able to resist
the unforeseen attractions of Clarina Tinti, a lodger in the Memmi palace, and unrivaled prima
donna at the Fenice. Finally, conquering his timidity, and breaking with the "ideal," he rendered
Massimilla Cataneo a mother, and married her when she became a widow. Varese lived in Paris
under the reign of Louis Philippe, and, having been enriched by his marriage, one evening at
the Champs-Elysees, aided certain destitute artists, the Gambaras, who were obliged to sing
in the open air. He asked for the story of their misfortunes, and Marianina told it to him
without bitterness. [Massimilla Doni. Gambara.]

VARESE (Princess of), wife of the preceding, born Massimilla Doni, about 1800, of an ancient
and wealthy Florentine family of the nobility; married, at first, the Duke Cataneo, a repulsive
man who lived in Venice at the time of Louis XVIII. She was an enthusiastic attendant of the
Fenice theatre during the winter when "Moses" and the "Semiramide" were given by a company,
in which were found Clarina Tinti, Genovese and Carthagenova. Massimilla conceived a violent
but at first a platonic love for Emilio Memmi, Prince of Varese, married him after Cataneo's
death, following him to Paris, during the time of Louis Philippe, where she met with him the
Gambaras and helped them in their poverty. [Massimilla Doni. Gambara.]

VARLET, an Arcis physician, early in the nineteenth century, at the time of the political and
local quarrels of the Gondrevilles, Cinq-Cygnes, Simeuses, Michus, and Hauteserres; had a daughter
who afterwards became Madame Grevin. [The Gondreville Mystery. The Member for Arcis.]

VARLET, son of the preceding, brother-in-law of Grevin; like his father, later a physician.
[The Member for Arcis.]

VASSAL, in 1822 at Paris, third clerk of Maitre Desroches, an advocate, by whom were employed
also Marest, Husson and Godeschal. [A Start in Life.]

VATEL, formerly an army child, then corporal of the Voltigeurs, became, during the Restoration,
one of the three guards of Montcornet's estate in Aigues, Bourgogne, under head-keeper Michaud;
he detected Mere Tonsard in her trespassing. He was a valuable servant; gay as a lark, rather
loose in his conduct with women, without any religious principles, and brave unto rashness.
[The Peasantry.]

VATINELLE (Madame), a pretty and rather loose woman of Mantes, courted at the same time by
Maitre Fraisier and the king's attorney, Olivier Vinet; she was "kind" to the former, thereby
causing his ruin; the attorney soon found a means of compelling Fraisier, who was representing
both sides in a lawsuit, to sell his practice and leave town. [Cousin Pons.]

VAUCHELLES (De), maintained relations of close friendship, about 1835, at Besancon, with Amedee
de Soulas, his fellow-countryman, and Chavoncourt, the younger, a former collegemate. Vauchelles
was of equally high birth with Soulas, and was also equally poor. He sought the hand of Mademoiselle
Victoire, Chavoncourt's eldest sister, on whom a godmother aunt had agreed to settle an estate
yielding an income of seven thousand francs, and a hundred thousand francs in cash, in the
marriage contract. To Rosalie de Watteville's satisfaction, he opposed Albert Savarus, the
rival of the elder Chavoncourt, in his candidacy for a seat in the Chamber of Deputies. [Albert
Savarus.]

VAUDOYER, a peasant of Ronquerolles, Bourgogne, appointed forest-keeper of Blangy, but discharged
about 1821, in favor of Groison, by Montcornet, at that time mayor of the commune; supported
G. Rigou and F. Gaubertin as against the new owner of Aigues. [The Peasantry.]

VAUDREMONT (Comtesse de), born in 1787; being a wealthy widow of twenty-two years in 1809,
she was considered the most beautiful Parisian of the day, and was known as the "Queen of Fashion."
In the month of November of the same year, she attended the great ball given by the Malin de
Gondrevilles, who were disappointed at the Emperor's failure to appear on that occasion. Being
the mistress of the Comte de Soulanges and Martial de la Roche-Hugon, Madame de Vaudremont
had received from the former a ring taken from his wife's jewel-casket; she made a present
of it to Martial, who happening to be wearing it on the evening of the Gondreville ball, gave
it to Madame de Soulanges, without once suspecting that he was restoring it to its lawful owner.
Madame de Vaudremont's death followed shortly after this incident, which brought about the
reconciliation of the Soulanges couple, urged by the Duchesse de Lansac; the countess perished
in the famous fire that broke out at the Austrian embassy during the party given on the occasion
of the wedding of the Emperor and the Arch-duchess Marie-Louise. [Domestic Peace.] The embassy
was located on the part of the rue de la Chaussee-d'Antin (at that time rue du Mont-Blanc)
comprised between the rue de la Victoire and the rue Saint-Lazare.

VAUMERLAND (Baronne de), a friend of Madame de l'Ambermesnil's, boarded with one of Madame
Vauquer's rivals in the Marais, and intended, as soon as her term expired, to become a patron
of the establishment on the rue Neuve-Sainte-Genevieve; at least, so Madame de l'Ambermesnil
declared. [Father Goriot.]

VAUQUELIN (Nicolas-Louis), a famous chemist, and a member of the Institute; born at Saint-Andre
d'Hebertot, Calvadts, in 1763, died in 1829; son of a peasant; praised by Fourcroy; in turn,
pharmacist in Paris, mine-inspector, professor at the School of Pharmacy, the School of Medicine,
the Jardin des Plantes, and the College de France. He gave Cesar Birotteau the formula for
a cosmetic for the hands, that the perfumer called "la double pate des Sultanes," and, being
consulted by him on the subject of "cephalic oil," he denied the possibility of restoring a
suit of hair. Nicolas Vauquelin was invited to the perfumer's great ball, given on December
17, 1818. In recognition of the good advice received from the scientist, Cesar Birotteau offered
him a proof, before the time of printing, on China paper, of Muller's engraving of the Dresden
Virgin, which proof had been found in Germany after two years of searching, and cost fifteen
hundred francs. [Cesar Birotteau.]

VAUQUER (Madame), a widow, born Conflans about 1767. She claimed to have lost a brilliant position
through a series of misfortunes, which, by the way, she never detailed specifically. For a
long time she kept a bourgeois boarding-house on the rue Neuve-Sainte-Genevieve (now rue Tournefort),
near the rue de l'Arbalete. In 1819-1820, Madame Vauquer, a short, stout, languid woman, but
rather well preserved in spite of being a little faded, had Horace Bianchon as table-boarder,
and furnished with board and lodging the following: on the first floor of her house, Madame
Couture and Mademoiselle Victorine Taillefer; on the second floor, Poiret, the elder, and Jacques
Collin; on the third, Christine-Michelle Michonneau--afterwards Madame Poiret,--Joachim Goriot;
whom she looked upon as a possible husband for herself, and Eugene de Rastignac. She was deserted
by her various boarders shortly after the arrest of Jacques Collin. [Father Goriot.]

VAUREMONT (Princesse de), one of the most prominent figures of the eighteenth century; grandmother
of Madame Marie Gaston, who adored her; she died in 1817, the year of Madame de Stael's death,
in a mansion belonging to the Chaulieus and situated near the Boulevard des Invalides. Madame
de Vauremont, at the time of her death, was occupying a suite of apartments in which she was
shortly afterwards succeeded by Louise de Chaulieu (Madame Marie Gaston). Talleyrand, an intimate
friend of the princess was executor of her will. [Letters of Two Brides.]

VAUTHIER, commonly called Vieux-Chene, former servant of the famous Longuy; hostler at the
Ecu de France, Mortagne, in 1809; was implicated in the affair of the Chauffeurs, and condemned
to twenty years of penal servitude, but was afterwards pardoned by the Emperor. During the
Restoration he was murdered in the streets of Paris by an obscure and devoted countryman of
the Chevalier du Vissard. [The Seamy Side of History.]

VAUTHIER (Madame), originally, in 1809, kitchen-girl in the household of the Prince de Wissembourg,
on the rue Louis-le-Grand; then cook to Barbet, the publisher, owner of a lodging-house on
the Boulevard Montparnasse; still later, about 1833, she managed this establishment for him,
serving the same time as door-keeper in the house mentioned. At that time Madame Vauthier employed
Nepomucene and Felicite for the house-work; as lodgers she had Bourlac, Vanda and Auguste Mergi,
and Godefroid. [The Seamy Side of History.]

VAUTRIN,[*] the most famous of Jacques Collin's assumed names.

[*] On March 14, 1840, a Parisian theatre, the Porte-Saint-Martin,
    presented a play in which the famous convict was a principal
    character. Although Frederic Lemaitre took the leading role, the
    play was presented only once. In April, 1868, however, the
    Ambigu-Comique revived it, with Frederic Lemaitre again in the
    leading role.

VAUVINET, born about 1817, a money-lender of Paris, was of the elegant modern type, altogether
different from Chaboisseau-Gobseck; he made the Boulevard des Italiens the centre of his operations;
was a creditor of the Baron Hulot, first in the sum of seventy thousand francs; and then in
an additional sum of forty thousand, really lent by Nucingen. [Cousin Betty.] In 1845, Leon
de Lora and J.-J. Bixiou called S.-P. Gazonal's attention to him. [The Unconscious Humorists.]

VAVASSEUR, clerk in the Treasury Department, during the Empire, in Clergeot's division. He
was succeeded by E.-L.-L.-E.-Cochin. [The Government Clerks.]

VEDIE (La), born in 1756, a homely spinster, her face being pitted with small-pox; a relative
of La Cognette, a distinguished cook; on the recommendation of Flore Brazier and Maxence Gilet,
she was employed as cook by J.-J. Rouget, after the death of a curate, whom she had served
long, and who died without leaving her anything. She was to receive a pension of three hundred
livres a year, after ten years of competent, faithful and loyal service. [A Bachelor's Establishment.]

VENDRAMINI (Marco), whose name is also pronounced Vendramin;[*] probably a descendant of the
last Doge of Venice; brother of Bianca Sagredo, born Vendramini; a Venetian patriot; an intimate
friend of Memmi-Cane, Prince of Varese. In the intoxication caused by opium, his great resource
about 1820, Marco Vendramini dreamed that his dear city, then under Austrian dominion, was
free and powerful once more. He talked with Memmi of the Venice of his dreams, and of the famous
Procurator Florain, now in the modern Greek, now in their native tongue; sometimes as they
walked together, sometimes before La Vulpato and the Cataneos, during a presentation of "Semiramide,"
"Il Barbiere," or "Moses," as interpreted by La Tinti and Genovese. Vendramini died from excessive
use of opium, at quite an early age, during the reign of Louis XVIII., and was greatly mourned
by his friends. [Facino Cane. Massimilla Doni.]

[*] The palace in Venice formerly owned by the Duchesse de Berri and
    the Comte de Chambord, in which Wagner, the musician, died, is
    even now called the Vendramin Palace. It is on the Grand-Canal,
    quite near the Justiniani Palace (now the Hotel de-l'Europe.)

VERGNIAUD (Louis), who made the Egyptian campaign with Hyacinthe Chabert and Luigi Porta, was
quartermaster of hussars when he left the service. During the Restoration he was, in turn,
cow-keeper on the rue du Petit-Banquier, keeper of a livery-stable, and cabman. As cow-keeper,
Vergniaud, having a wife and three sons, being in debt to Grados, and giving too generously
to Chabert, ended in insolvency; even then he aided Luigi Porta, again in trouble, and was
his witness when that Corsican married Mademoiselle di Piombo. Louis Vergniaud, being a party
to the conspiracies against Louis XVIII., was imprisoned for his share in these crimes. [Colonel
Chabert. The Vendetta.]

VERMANTON, a cynic philosopher, and a habitue of Madame Schontz's salon, between 1835 and 1840,
when she was keeping house with Arthur de Rochefide. [Beatrix.]

VERMICHEL, common nick-name of Vert (Michel-Jean-Jerome.)

VERMUT, a druggist of Soulanges, in Bourgogne, during the Restoration; brother-in-law of Sarcus,
the Soulanges justice of the peace, who had married his eldest sister. Though quite a distinguished
chemist, Vermut was the object of the pleasantries and contemptuous remarks of the Soudry salon,
especially at the hands of the Gourdons. Despite the slight esteem "of the first society of
Soulanges," Vermut gave evidence of ability, when he disturbed Madame Pigeron by finding traces
of poison in the body of her dead husband. [The Peasantry.]

VERMUT (Madame), wife of the preceding; life and soul of the salon of Madame Soudry, who, however,
declared that she was "bad form," and reproached her for flirting with Gourdon, author of "La
Bilboqueide." [The Peasantry.]

VERNAL (Abbe), one of the four Vendean leaders, in 1799, when Montauran was opposing Hulot,
the other three being Chatillon, Suzannet, and the Comte de Fontaine. [The Chouans.]

VERNET (Joseph), born in 1714, died in 1789, a famous French artist; patronized the Cat and
Racket, a drapery establishment on the rue Saint-Denis, of which M. Guillaume, father-in-law
of Sommervieux, was proprietor. [At the Sign of the Cat and Racket.]

VERNEUIL (Marquis de), member of a historic family, and probably an ancestor of the Verneuils
of the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries. In 1591, he was on intimate terms, with the Norman
Comte d'Herouville, ancestor of the keeper of Josepha Mirah, star of the Royal Academy of Music,
about 1838. The relations between the two families continued unbroken through the centuries.
[The Hated Son.]

VERNEUIL (Victor-Amedee, Duc de), probably descended from the preceding, died before the Revolution;
by Mademoiselle Blanche de Casteran, he had a daughter, Marie-Nathalie--afterwards Madame Alphonse
de Montauran. He acknowledged his natural daughter at the close of his life, and almost disinherited
his legitimate son in her favor. [The Chouans.]

VERNEUIL (Mademoiselle de), probably a relative of the preceding; sister of the Prince de Loudon,
the Vendean cavalry general; she went to Mans to save her brother, and died on the scaffold
in 1793, after the Savenay affair. [The Chouans.]

VERNEUIL (Duc de), son of the Duc Victor-Amedee de Verneuil, and brother of Madame Alphonse
de Montauran, with whom he had a lawsuit over the inheritance left by their father; during
the Restoration he lived in the town of Alencon and was on intimate terms with the D'Esgrignons
of that place. He took Victurnien d'Esgrignon under his protection, and introduced him to Louis
XVIII. [The Chouans. Jealousies of a Country Town.]

VERNEUIL (Duc de), of the family of the preceding, was present at the entertainment given by
Josepha Mirah, the mistress of the Duc d'Herouville, when she opened her sumptuous suite of
apartments on the rue de la Ville-l'Eveque, Paris, in Louis Philippe's reign. [Cousin Betty.]

VERNEUIL (Duc de), a good-natured great nobleman, son-in-law of a wealthy first president of
a royal court, who died in 1800; he was the father of four children, among them being Mademoiselle
Laure and the Prince Gaspard de Loudon; owned the historic chateau of Rosembray, in the vicinity
of Havre, and close by the forest of Brotonne; there he received, one day in October, 1829,
the Mignon de la Basties, accompanied by the Herouvilles, Canalis, and Ernest de la Briere,
all of whom were at that time desirous to marry Modeste Mignon, soon to become Madame de la
Briere de la Bastie. [Modeste Mignon.]

VERNEUIL (Duchesse Hortense de), wife of the preceding, a haughty and pious personage, daughter
of a wealthy first president of a royal court, who died in 1800. Of her four children, only
two lived--her daughter Laure and the Prince Gaspard de Loudon; she was on very intimate terms
with the Herouvilles, and especially with the elderly Mademoiselle d'Herouville, and received
a visit from them, one day in October, 1829, with the Mignon de la Basties, followed by Melchior
de Canalis and Ernest de la Briere. [Modeste Mignon.]

VERNEUIL (Laure de), daughter of the preceding couple. At the entertainment at Rosembray in
October, 1829, Eleonore de Chaulieu gave her advice on the subject of tapestry and embroidery.
[Modeste Mignon.]

VERNEUIL (Duchesse de), sister of the Prince de Blamont-Chauvry; an intimate friend of the
Duchesse de Bourbon, sorely tried by the disasters of the Revolution; aunt and, in a way, mother
by adoption of Blanche-Henriette de Mortsauf (born Lenoncourt). She belonged to a society of
which Saint-Martin was the soul. The Duchesse de Verneuil, who owned the Clochegourde estate
in Touraine, gave it, in her lifetime, to Madame de Mortsauf, reserving for herself only one
room of the mansion. Madame de Verneuil died in the early part of the nineteenth century. [The
Lily of the Valley.]

VERNEUIL (Marie-Nathalie de).[*] (See Montauran, Marquise Alphonse de.)

[*] On June 23, 1837, under the title of Le Gars, the Ambigu-Comique
    presented a drama of Antony Beraud's in five acts and six
    tableaux, which was a modified reproduction of the adventures of
    Marie-Nathalie de Montauran.

VERNIER (Baron), intendant-general, under obligations to Hector Hulot d'Ervy, whom he met,
in 1843, at the Ambigu theatre, as escort of a gloriously handsome woman. He afterwards received
a visit from the Baronne Adeline Hulot, coming for information. [Cousin Betty.]

VERNIER, formerly a dyer, who lived on his income at Vouvray (Touraine), about 1821; a cunning
countryman, father of a marriageable daughter named Claire; was challenged by Felix Gaudissart
in 1831, for having played a practical joke on that illustrious traveling merchant, and fought
a bloodless pistol duel. [Gaudissart the Great.]

VERNIER (Madame), wife of the preceding, a stout little woman, of robust health; a friend of
Madame Margaritis; she gladly contributed her share to the mystification of Gaudissart as conceived
by her husband. [Gaudissart the Great.]

VERNISSET (Victore de), a poet of the "Angelic School," at the head of which stood Canalis,
the academician; a contemporary of Beranger, Delavigne, Lamartine, Lousteau, Nathan, Vigny,
Hugo, Barbier, Marie Gaston and Gautier, he moved in various Parisian circles; he was seen
at the Brothers of Consolation on the rue Chanoinesse, and he received pecuniary assistance
from the Baronne de la Chanterie, president of the above-mentioned association; he was to be
found, with Heloise Brisetout, on the rue Chauchat, at the time of her house-warming in the
apartments in which she succeeded Josepha Mirah; there he met J.-J. Bixiou, Leon de Lora, Etienne
Lousteau and Stidmann; he fell madly in love with Madame Schontz. He was invited to the marriage
of Celestin Crevel and Valerie Marneffe. [The Seamy Side of History. Beatrix. Cousin Betty.]

VERNON (Marechal) father of the Duc de Vissembourg and the Prince Chiavari. [Beatrix.]

VERNOU (Felicien), a Parisian journalist. He used his influence in starting Marie Godeschal,
usually called Mariette, at the Porte Saint-Martin. The husband of an ugly, vulgar, and crabbed
woman, he had by her children that were by no means welcome. He lived in wretched lodgings
on the rue Mandar, when Lucien de Rubempre was presented to him. Vernou was a caustic critic
on the side of the oppositon. The uncongeniality of his domestic life embittered his character
and his genius. He was a finished specimen of the envious man, and pursued Lucien de Rubempre
with an alert and malicious jealousy. [A Daughter of Eve.] Celestin Crevel invited him to his
marriage with Valerie Marneffe. [Cousin Betty.]

VERNOU (Madame Felicien), wife of the preceding, whose vulgarity was one of the causes of her
husband's bitterness, revealed herself in her true light to Lucien de Rubempre, when she mentioned
a certain Madame Mahoudeau as one of her friends. [A Distinguished Provincial at Paris.]

VERT (Michel-Jean-Jerome), nick-named Vermichel, formerly violinist in the Bourgogne regiment,
was occupied, during the Restoration, with the various callings of fiddler, door-keeper of
the Hotel de Ville, drum-beater of Soulanges, jailer of the local prison, and finally bailiff's
deputy in the service of Brunet. He was intimate friend of Fourchon, with whom he was in the
habit of getting on sprees, and whose hatred for the Montcornets, owners of Aigues, he shared.
[The Peasantry.]

VERT (Madame Michel), wife of the preceding, commonly called Vermichel, as was the case with
her husband; a mustached virago, a metre in width, and of two hundred and forty pounds weight,
but active in spite of this; she ruled her husband absolutely. [The Peasantry.]

VERVELLE (Antenor), an eccentric bourgeois of Paris, made his fortune in the cork business.
Retiring from the trade, Vervelle became, in his own way, an amateur artist; wished to form
a gallery of paintings, and believed that he was collecting Flemish specimens, works of Tenier,
Metzu, and Rembrandt; employed Elie Magus to form the collection, and, with that Jew as go-between,
married his daughter Virginie to Pierre Grassou. Vervelle, at that time, was living in a house
of his own on the rue Boucherat, a part of the rue Saint-Louis (now rue de Turenne), near the
rue Charlot. He also owned a cottage at Ville-d'Avray, in which the famous Flemish collection
was stored--pictures really painted by Pierre Grassou. [Pierre Grassou.]

