 One may believe that courses in
infant hygiene should be provided for the girls in the upper grammar grades, while the other
may hold that such instruction should be reserved for continuation classes for young women.

All of these are matters on which educational authorities are sharply divided in opinion and
there are many more of the same nature. The present director of schools, the present superintendent
of schools, and the present chief medical inspector have so far worked successfully under the
present arrangement of divided duties and responsibilities, but a reorganization along sounder
administrative lines should be made before, instead of after, serious trouble arises. Eventually,
if not now, Cleveland must realize that health work in education must be placed under the direction
of the city's highest educational official who is the city superintendent of schools.

SUMMARY

1. Cleveland employs 16 school physicians, one oculist, and 27 nurses. It spends $36,000 a
year on salaries and supplies for these people, and maintains 86 school dispensaries and clinics.

2. It recognizes the intimate relationship between the physical and mental conditions of children.
It realizes that education is dependent upon health. It betters health conditions among school
children, safeguards them from disease, and renders them healthier, happier, and more vigorous.

3. The first work of this kind in Cleveland started in 1900 when tests were made of defective
vision. In 1906 the Health Department provided inspectors for contagious diseases in the schools.
In the same year inspection for physical defects was undertaken; the first dispensary in the
United States was established at the Murray Hill School, and school nurses were appointed.

4. Every child is examined every year.

5. Cleveland has 86 dispensaries. In every case lighting, ventilation, and equipment are good.
It is probably true that these dispensaries are of better grade than those of any other large
city in the United States.

6. Dental clinics are now conducted in four public schools by the Cleveland Auxiliary of the
National Mouth Hygiene Association. This work has now reached a point where it should be taken
over and administered as a part of the public school system. The function of a private organization
is to experiment and demonstrate. It cannot eventuate on a large scale, and it should not if
it could. The function of a public organization is to eventuate on a large scale. It can seldom
experiment, and it lacks freedom and flexibility in demonstration. The Mouth Hygiene Association
has experimented and demonstrated successfully. Its work should now be assumed, continued,
and extended by the Division of Medical Inspection.

7. The eye clinic conducted by the Division at the Brownell School is doing excellent work.
As the system grows, this clinic should be supplied with more workers. The Cleveland College
for Barbers gives an excellent free service in many of the schools. There are no other clinics.

8. Medical inspectors are mature men, graduates of well-known medical schools, with a fairly
wide private practice. The school nurses are all registered nurses.

9. The number of school nurses should be increased as rapidly as possible until one nurse is
provided on full time for every 2000 children enrolled in school. This would mean the employment
of 11 additional nurses, increasing the staff from 27 to 34. As the population increases, more
nurses should be added.

10. Office consultations between parents and physicians are among the most important activities
of the Division and should be systematically encouraged. To this end arrangements should be
made whereby definite hours for parent consultations are assigned to each school.

11. The Division of Medical Inspection has so organized its work that the attention of the
staff is concentrated upon a different set of problems each year. This method is unquestionably
effective in promoting growth and maintaining the interest of the staff. Care should be taken,
however, to provide that within each four-year period special emphasis be laid upon the discovery
and cure of each of the more important defects. Some plan should be adopted by the staff whereby
effort may be concentrated on discovering and remedying defects at those ages where such expenditure
of time and energy will secure the largest returns.

12. Adequate provision should be made for the correction of speech defects. Classes in speech
training should be established under the direction of a teacher specially trained in this work.

13. Through this standardization the same terms have uniform meanings when used by different
members of the staff, and constant standards are employed in detecting and recording defects.

14. There are probably more than 50,000 unvaccinated children now in the Cleveland schools.
Immediate steps should be taken to see to it that every child now in school is vaccinated,
and that no child is admitted to school hereafter without similar protection. Principals, teachers,
and parents should be held responsible for violation of the vaccination ordinance.

15. The Division of Medical Inspection should plan steadily to enlarge its field of activity
in order to provide in constantly increasing measure better working conditions in the schools
and to train the children into habits of health that shall be life-long. It is probable that
the health work in the Cleveland public schools is unsurpassed by that of any other city in
the country. The city now has an opportunity to lead the way into vastly important forward
extensions looking toward the provision of health insurance for future generations.

16. Under the present organization, the official in charge of health
work is responsible to the director of schools in part of his
activities and to the superintendent in the rest of them. He should be
responsible to the city superintendent alone, for health work in the
public schools is education and not business.
  The School and the Immigrant.