London: Printed by John Bell and Christopher Barker, Printers to the King's most Excellent
Majesty, 1660.

       *       *       *       *       *

Pepys, in his Diary, vol. i. p. 152., under date 8th November, 1660, says:

    "To Mr. Fox, who was very civil to me.

T. D.

       *       *       *       *       *

SHAKSPEARE CORRESPONDENCE.

I should say very unlikely: but if heat had been actually printed in the folios, without speculating
as to the probability that the press-copy was written from dictation, I should have had no
hesitation in altering it to cheek. To this I should have been directed by a parallel passage
in Richard II., Act III. Sc. 3., which has been overlooked by MR. COLLIER:

 "Methinks, King Richard and myself should meet
  With no less terror than the elements
  Of fire and water, when their thundering shock
  At meeting tears the cloudy cheeks of heaven."

Commentary here is almost useless. Every one who has any capacity for Shakspearian criticism
must feel assured that Shakspeare wrote cheek, and not heat.

The passage I have cited from Richard II. strongly reminds me of an old lady whom I met last
autumn on a tour through the Lakes of Cumberland, &c.; and who, during a severe thunderstorm,
expressed to me her surprise at the pertinacity of the lightning, adding, "I should think,
Sir, that so much water in the heavens would have put all the fire out."

C. MANSFIELD INGLEBY.

Birmingham.

The Case referred to by Shakspeare in Hamlet (Vol. vii., p. 550.).--

 "If the water come to the man."--Shakspeare.

The argument Shakspeare referred to was that contained in Plowden's Report of the case of Hales
v. Petit, heard in the Court of Common Pleas in the fifth year of the reign of Queen Elizabeth.
It was held that though the wife of Sir James Hale, whose husband was felo-de-se, became by
survivorship the holder of a joint term for years, yet, on office found, it should be forfeited
on account of the act of the deceased husband. The learned serjeants who were counsel for the
defendant, alleged that the forfeiture should have relation to the act done in the party's
lifetime, which was the cause of his death. "And upon this," they said, "the parts of the act
are to be considered." And Serjeant Walsh said:

    "The act consists of three parts. The first is the imagination, which
    is a reflection or meditation of the mind, whether or no it is
    convenient for him to destroy himself, and what way it can be done. The
    second is the resolution, which is the determination of the mind to
    destroy himself, and to do it in this or that particular way. The third
    is the perfection, which is the execution of what the mind has resolved
    to do. And this perfection consists of two parts, viz. the beginning
    and the end. The beginning is the doing of the act which causes the
    death; and the end is the death, which is only the sequel to the act.
    And of all the parts, the doing of the act is the greatest in the
    judgment of our law, and it is, in effect, the whole and the only part
    the law looks upon to be material. For the imagination of the mind to
    do wrong, without an act done, is not punishable in our law; neither is
    the resolution to do that wrong which he does not, punishable; but the
    doing of the act is the only point the law regards, for until the act
    is done it cannot be an offence to the world, and when the act is done
    it is punishable. Then, here, the act done by Sir James Hale, which is
    evil and the cause of his death, is the throwing of himself into the
    water, and death is but a sequel thereof, and this evil act ought some
    way to be punished. And if the forfeiture shall not have relation to
    the doing of the act, then the act shall not be punished at all, for
    inasmuch as the person who did the act is dead, his person cannot be
    punished, and therefore there is no way else to punish him but by the
    forfeiture of those things which were his own at the time of the act
    done; and the act was done in his lifetime, and therefore the
    forfeiture shall have relation to his lifetime, namely, to that time of
    his life in which he did the act which took away his life."

And the judges, viz. Weston, Anthony Brown, and Lord Dyer, said:

    "That the forfeiture shall have relation to the time of the original
    offence committed, which was the cause of the death, and that was, the
    throwing himself into the water, which was done in his lifetime, and
    this act was felony."----"So that the felony is attributed to the act,
    which act is always done by a living man and in his lifetime," as Brown
    said; for he said, "Sir James Hale was dead, and how came he to his
    death? It may be answered, By drowning. And who drowned him? Sir James
    Hale. And when did he drown him? In his lifetime. So that Sir James
    Hale being alive, caused Sir James Hale to die; and the act of the
    living man was the death of the dead man. And then for this offence it
    is reasonable to punish the living man who committed the offence, and
    not the dead man. But how can he be said to be punished alive when the
    punishment comes after his death? Sir, this can be done no other way
    but by devesting out of him, from the time of the act done in his life,
    which was the cause of his death, the title and property of those
    things which he had in his lifetime."

The above extract is long, but the work from which it is taken can be accessible to but very
few {124} of your readers. Let them not, however, while they smile at the arguments, infer
that those who took part in them were not deservedly among the most learned and eminent of
our ancient judges.

THOMAS FALCONER.

Temple.

Shakspeare Suggestion.--

 "These sweet thoughts do even refresh my labours;
  Most busy--less when I do it."
                  Tempest, Act III. Sc. 1.

I fear your readers will turn away from the very sight of the above. Be patient, kind friends,
I will be brief. Has any one suggested--

 "Most busy, least when I do"?

The words in the folio are

 "Most busy lest, when I do it."

The "it" seems mere surplusage. The sense requires that the thoughts should be "most busy"
whilst the hands "do least;" and in Shakspeare's time, "lest" was a common spelling for least.

ICON.

Shakspeare Controversy.--I think the Shakspeare Notes contained in your volumes are not complete
without the following quotation from The Summer Night of Ludwig Tieck, as translated by Mary
Maynard in the Athen. of June 25, 1853. Puck, in addressing the sleeping boy Shakspeare, says:

 "After thy death, I'll raise dissension sharp,
    Loud strife among the herd of little minds:
  Envy shall seek to dim thy wondrous page,
    But all the clearer will thy glory shine."

CERIDWEN.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Notes.

Falsified Gravestone in Stratford Churchyard.--The following instance of a recent forgery having
been extensively circulated, may lead to more careful examination by those who take notes of
things extraordinary.

The church at Stratford-upon-Avon was repaired about the year 1839; and some of the workmen
having their attention directed to the fact, that many persons who had attained to the full
age of man were buried in the churchyard; and, wishing "for the honour of the place," to improve
the note-books of visitors, set about manufacturing an extraordinary instance of longevity.
A gravestone was chosen in an out-of-the-way place, in which there happened to be a space before
the age (72). A figure 1 was cut in this space, and the age at death then stood 172. The sexton
was either deceived, or assented to the deception; as the late vicar, the Rev. J. Clayton,
learned that it had become a practice with him (the sexton) to show strangers this gravestone,
so falsified, as a proof of the extraordinary age to which people lived in the parish. The
vicar had the fraudulent figure erased at once, and lectured the sexton for his dishonesty.

These facts were related to me a few weeks since by a son of the late vicar. And as many strangers
visiting the tomb of Shakspeare "made a note" of this falsified age, "N. & Q." may now correct
the forgery.

ROBERT RAWLINSON.

Barnacles in the River Thames.--In Porta's Natural Magic, Eng. trans., Lond. 1658, occurs the
following curious passage:

    "Late writers report that not only in Scotland, but also in the river
    of Thames by London, there is a kind of shell-fish in a two-leaved
    shell, that hath a foot full of plaits and wrinkles: these fish are
    little, round, and outwardly white, smooth and beetle-shelled like an
    almond shell; inwardly they are great bellied, bred as it were of moss
    and mud; they commonly stick in the keel of some old ship. Some say
    they come of worms, some of the boughs of trees which fall into the
    sea; if any of them be cast upon shore they die, but they which are
    swallowed still into the sea, live and get out of their shells, and
    grow to be ducks or such like birds(!)."

It would be curious to know what could give rise to such an absurd belief.

SPERIEND.

Note for London Topographers.--

 "The account of Mr. Mathias Fletcher, of Greenwich,
  for carving the Anchor Shield and King's Arms
  for the Admiralty Office in York Buildings, delivered
  Nov. 2, 1668, and undertaken by His Majesty's command
  signified to me by the Hon. Samuel Pepys, Esq.,
  Secretary for the Affairs of the Admiralty:

                                                £ s. d.

 "For a Shield for the middle of the
  front of the said office towards the Thames,
  containing the Anchor of Lord High Admiral
  of England with the Imperial Crown
  over it, and cyphers, being 8 foot deep and
  6 foot broad, I having found the timber,
  &c.                                           30 0 0

 "For the King's Arms at large, with
  ornaments thereto, designed for the pediment
  of the said front, the same being in
  the whole 15 foot long and 9 foot high, I
  finding timber, &c.                           73 15 0

                                              ---------
                                              £103 15 0"

Extracted from Rawlinson MS. A. 170, fol. 132.

J. YEOWELL.

The Aliases and Initials of Authors.--It has often occurred to me that it would save much useless
inquiry and research, if a tolerable list could be collected of the principal authors who have
published their works under assumed names or initials: thus, "R. B. Robert Burton," Nathaniel
Crouch, "R. F. Scoto-Britannicus," Robert Fairley, &c. The commencement of a new volume of
{125} "N. & Q." affords an excellent opportunity for attempting this. If the correspondents
of "N. & Q." would contribute their mites occasionally with this view, by the conclusion of
the volume, I have little doubt but a very valuable list might be obtained. For the sake of
reference, the whole contributions obtained could then be amalgamated, and alphabetically arranged.

PERTHENSIS.

Pure.--In visiting an old blind woman the other day, I was struck with what to me was a peculiar
use of the word pure. Having inquired after the dame's health, and been assured that she was
much better, I begged her not to rise from the bed on which she was sitting, whereupon she
said, "Thank you, Sir, I feel quite pure this morning."

OXONIENSIS.

Oakridge, Gloucestershire.

Darling's "Cyclopædia Bibliographica."--The utility of Mr. Darling's Cyclopædia Bibliographica
is exemplified by the solution conveyed under the title "Crellius," p. 813, of the following
difficulty expressed by Dr. Hey, the Norrisian professor (Lectures, vol. iii. p. 40.):

    "Paul Crellius and John Maclaurin seem to have been of the same way of
    thinking with John Agricola. Nicholls, on this Article [Eighth of the
    Thirty-nine Articles], refers to Paul Crellius's book De Libertate
    Christiana, but I do not find it anywhere. A speech of his is in the
    Bodleian Dialogue, but not this work."

Similar information might have been received by your correspondent (Vol. vii., p. 381.), who
inquired whether Huet's Navigations of Solomon was ever published. In the Cyclopædia reference
is made to two collections in which this treatise has been inserted, Crit. Sac., viii.; Ugolinus,
vii. 277. With his usual accuracy, Mr. Darling states there are additions in the Critici Sacri
printed at Amsterdam, 1698-1732, as Huet's treatise above referred to is not in the first edition,
London, 1660.

BIBLIOTHECAR. CHETHAM.

       *       *       *       *       *

Queries.

DELFT MANUFACTURE.

I am extremely desirous of obtaining some information respecting the Dutch manufactories of
enamelled pottery, or Delft ware, as we call it.

On a former occasion, by your connexion with the Navorscher, you were able to obtain for me
some very valuable and interesting information in reply to some question put respecting the
Dutch porcelain manufactories. I am therefore in hopes that some kind correspondent in Holland
will be so obliging as to impart to me similar information on this subject also. I should wish
to know--

When, by whom, at what places, and under what circumstances, the manufacture of enamelled pottery
was first introduced into Holland?

Whether there were manufactories at other towns besides Delft?

Whether they had any distinctive marks; and, if so, what were they?

Whether there was more than one manufactory at Delft; and, if so, what were their marks, and
what was the meaning of them?

Whether any particular manufactories were confined to the making of any particular sort or
quality of articles; and, if so, what were they?

Whether any of the manufactories have ceased; and, if so, at what period?

Also, any other particulars respecting the manufactories and their products that it may be
possible to communicate through the medium of a paper like "N. & Q."

OCTAVIUS MORGAN.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Queries.

The Withered Hand and Motto "Utinam."--At Compton Park, near Salisbury, the seat of the Penruddocke
family, there is a three-quarter length picture, in the Velasquez style, of a gentleman in
a rich dress of black velvet, with broad lace frill and cuffs, and ear-rings, probably of the
latter part of Queen Elizabeth's reign. His right hand, which he displays somewhat prominently,
is withered. The left one is a-kimbo, and less seen. In the upper part of the painting is the
single Latin word "UTINAM" (O that!). There is no tradition as to who this person was. Any
suggestion on the subject would gratify

J.

History of York.--Who is the author of a History of York, in 2 vols., published at that city
in 1788 by T. Wilson and R. Spence, High Ousegate? I have seen it in several shops, and heard
it attributed to Drake; and obtained it the other day from an extensive library in Bristol,
in the Catalogue of which it is styled Drake's Eboracum. Several allusions in the first volume
to his work, however, render it impossible to be ascribed to him. It is dedicated to the Right
Honourable Sir William Mordaunt Milner, of Nunappleton, Bart., who was mayor at the time.

R. W. ELLIOT.

Clifton.

"Hauling over the coals."--What is the origin and meaning of the phrase, "Hauling one over
the coals;" and where does it first appear?

FABER.

Dr. Butler and St. Edmund's Bury.--Can any of your readers give me any information respecting
the Mr. or Dr. Butler, of St. Edmund's Bury, referred to in the extracts from the Post Boy
and Gough's Topography, quoted by MR. BALLARD in Vol. vii., p. 617.?

BURIENSIS.

Washington.--Anecdotes relative to General Washington, President of the United States, {126}
intended for a forthcoming work on the "Homes of American Statesmen," will be gratefully received
for the author by

JOSEPH STANSBURY.

26. Parliament Street.

Norman of Winster.--Can any of your correspondents afford information bearing on the family
of Norman of Winster, county of Derby?

"John Norman of Winster, county of Derby, married, in 1715 or 1716, to Jane (maiden name particularly
wanted). The said J. Norman married again in 1723, to Mary" (maiden name wanted also).

I shall be particularly obliged to any one affording such information.

W.

Sir Arthur Aston.--I shall be much obliged, should any of your very numerous correspondents
be able to inform me in which part or parish, of the county of Berkshire, the celebrated cavalier
Sir Arthur Aston resided upon his return from the foreign wars in which he had been for so
many years engaged; and previously to the rupture between Charles I. and the Houses of Parliament.

I believe one of his daughters, about the same period, married a gentleman residing in the
same county: also that George Tattersall, Esq., of Finchampstead, a family of consideration
in the same county of Berkshire, was a near relative.

CHARTHAM.

"Jamieson the Piper."--I am anxious to ascertain who was the author of the above ditty; it
was very popular in Aberdeenshire about the beginning of this century. The scene, if I remember
rightly, is laid in the parish of Forgue, in Aberdeenshire. Possibly some of the members of
the Spalding Club may be able to enlighten me on the subject.

BATHENSIS.

"Keiser Glomer."--I have a Danish play entitled Keiser Glomer, Frit oversatte af det Kyhlamske
vech C. Bredahl: Kiobenhavn, 1834. It is a mixture of tragedy and farce: the former occasionally
good, the latter poor buffoonery. In the notes, readings of the old MS. are referred to with
apparent seriousness; but Gammel Gumba's Saga is quoted in a manner that seems burlesque. I
cannot find the word "Kyhlam" in any dictionary. Can any of your readers tell me whether it
signifies a real country, or is a mere fiction? The work does not read like a translation;
and, if one, the number of modern allusions show that it is not, as it professes to be, from
an ancient manuscript.

M. M. E.

Tieck's Comoedia Divina.--I copied the following lines six years ago from a review in a Munich
newspaper of Batornicki's Ungöttliche Comödie. They were cited as from Tieck's suppressed (zurückgezogen)
satire, La Comödie Divina, from which Batornicki was accused of plundering freely, thinking
that, from its variety, he would not be detected:

 "Spitzt so hoch ihr könnt euer Ohr,
  Gar wunderbare Dinge kommen hier vor.
  Gott Vater identifieirt sich mit der Kreatur,
  Denn er will anschauen die absolute Natur;
  Aber zum Bewustseyn kann er nicht gedeihen,
  Drum muss er sich mit sich selbst entzweien."

I omitted to note the paper, but preserved the lines as remarkable. I have since tried to find
some account of La Divina Comedia, but in vain. It is not noticed in any biography of Tieck.
Can any of your readers tell me what it is, or who wrote it?

M. M. E.

Fossil Trees between Cairo and Suez--Stream like that in Bay of Argastoli.--Can any of your
readers oblige me by stating where the best information may be met with concerning the very
remarkable fossil trees on the way from Cairo to Suez? And, if there has yet been discovered
any other stream or rivulet running from the ocean into the land similar to that in the Bay
of Argastoli in the Island of Cephalonia?

H. M.

Presbyterian Titles (Vol. v., p. 516.).--Where may be found a list of "the quaint and uncouth
titles of the old Presbyterians?"

P. J. F. GANTILLON, B.A.

Mayors and Sheriffs.--Can you or any of your readers inform me which ought to be considered
the principal officer, or which is the most important, and which ought to have precedence of
the other, the mayor of a town or borough, or the sheriff of a town or borough? and is the
mayor merely the representative of the town, and the sheriff of the Queen; and if so, ought
not the representative of majesty to be considered more honourable than the representative
of merely a borough; and can a sheriff of a borough claim to have a grant of arms, if he has
not any previous?

A SUBSCRIBER.

Nottingham.

The Beauty of Buttermere.--In an article contributed by Coleridge to the Morning Post (vid.
Essays on his own Times, vol. ii. p. 591.), he says:

    "It seems that there are some circumstances attending her birth and
    true parentage, which would account for her striking superiority in
    mind and manners, in a way extremely flattering to the prejudices of
    rank and birth."

What are the circumstances alluded to?

R. W. ELLIOT.

Clifton.

Sheer Hulk.--Living in a maritime town, and hearing nautical terms frequently used, I had always
supposed this term to mean an old vessel, {127} with sheers, or spars, erected upon it, for
the purpose of masting and unmasting ships, and was led to attribute the use of it, by Sir
W. Scott and other writers, for a vessel totally dismasted, to their ignorance of the technical
terms. But of late it has been used in the latter sense by a writer in the United Service Magazine
professing to be a nautical man. I still suspect that this use of the word is wrong, and should
be glad to hear on the subject from any of your naval readers.

I believe that the word "buckle" is still used in the dockyards, and among seamen, to signify
to "bend" (see "N. & Q.," Vol. vii., p. 375.), though rarely.

J. S. WARDEN.

The Lapwing or Peewitt (Vanellus cristatus).--Can any of your correspondents, learned in natural
history, throw any light upon the meaning in the following line relative to this bird?--

 "The blackbird far its hues shall know,
    As lapwing knows the vine."

In the first line the allusion is to the berries of the hawthorn; but what the lapwing has
to do with the vine, I am at a loss to know. Having forgotten whence I copied the above lines,
perhaps some one will favor me with the author's name.

J. B. WHITBORNE.

NAPHTALI.

Launching Query.--With reference to the accident to H.M.S. Cæsar at Pembroke, I would ask,
Is there any other instance of a ship, on being launched, stopping on the ways, and refusing
to move in spite of all efforts to start her?

A. B.

Manliness.--Query, What is the meaning of the word as used in "N. & Q.," Vol. viii., p. 94.,
col. 2. l. 12.

ANONYMOUS.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Queries with Answers.

Pues or Pews.--Which is the correct way of spelling this word? What is its derivation? Why
has the form pue been lately so much adopted?

OMEGA.

    [The abuses connected with the introduction of pues into churches have
    led to an investigation of their history, as well as to the etymology
    of the word. Hence the modern adoption of its original and more correct
    orthography, that of pue; the Dutch puye, puyd, and the English
    pue, being derived from the Latin podium. In Vol. iii., p. 56., we
    quoted the following as the earliest notice of the word from the
    Vision of Piers Plouman:

     "Among wyves and wodewes ich am ywoned sute
      Yparroked in pues. The person hit knoweth."

