The letter says, "When Sir Thomas Moyle built Eastwell House, near London, about the year,
1544, he observed his chief bricklayer, whenever he left off work, retired with a book. Sir
Thomas had curiosity to know what book the man read, but was some time before he could discover
it; he still putting the book up if any one came toward him. However, at last Sir Thomas surprised
him, and snatched the book from him, and looking into it found it to be Latin. He then examined
him, and finding he pretty well understood that language, he inquired how he came by his learning.
Hereupon the man told him, as he had beer, a good master to him, he would venture to trust
him with a secret he had never before revealed to any one. He then related the above story.
Sir Thomas said, 'You are now old, and almost past your labour; I will give you the running
of my kitchen as long as you live.' He answered, 'Sir, you have a numerous family; I have been
used to live retired, give me leave to build a house of one room for myself in such a field,
and there, with your good leave, I will live and die.' Sir Thomas granted his request, he built
his house, and there continued to his death. Richard Plantagenet was buried the 22nd day of
December, anno ut supra ex registro de Eastwell sub 1550. This is all the register mentions
of him, so that we cannot say whether he was buried in the church or church-yard; nor is there
now any other memorial of him except the tradition in the family, and some little marks where
his house stood. This story my late Lord Heneage, earl of Winchelsea, told me in the year 1720."
Thus lived and died, in low and poor obscurity, the only remaining son of Richard III!

Tale of a Modern Genius.

       *       *       *       *       *

FINE ARTS.

       *       *       *       *       *

ART OF MOSAIC.

At Rome are many minor fine arts practised, which are wholly unknown in England. The most remarkable
of them is the Mosaic Manufactory, carried on at the cost of government: and its fruits are
theirs. The workmen are constantly occupied in copying paintings for altarpieces, though the
works of the first masters are fast mouldering away on the walls of forgotten churches. They
will soon be lost forever; it is yet possible to render them imperishable by means of Mosaic
copies; and why is it not done? The French, at Milan, set an example of this, by copying, in
mosaic, the Last Supper of Leonardo da Vinci; but it was their plan to do much for Milan, and
nothing for Rome; and the invaluable frescos of Michael Angelo, Raphael, Domenichino, and Guido,
were left to perish.

It takes about seven or eight years to finish a mosaic copy of a painting of the ordinary historical
size, two men being constantly employed. It generally costs from eight to ten thousand crowns,
but the time and expense are of course regulated by the intricacy of the subject and quantity
of work. Raphael's Transfiguration, cost about 12,000 crowns, and the labour of nine years,
ten men constantly working at it. The late works, are, however, of very inferior execution.

