c.--Meaning of "Claret"
      --"The Temple of Truth"--Wellborne Family
      --Devonianisms--Humbug--George Miller, D.D.
      --"A Letter to a Convocation Man"--Sheriffs
      of Huntingdonshire and Cambridgeshire--Ferdinand
      Mendez Pinto--"Other-some" and "Unneath"
      --Willow Pattern--Cross and Pile--Old Fogie
      --Another odd Mistake--Spontaneous Combustion
      --Erroneous Forms of Speech--Ecclesia Anglicana--
      Gloves at Fairs--The Sparrows at Lindholme, &c.         629

  MISCELLANEOUS:--

    Books and Odd Volumes wanted                              634

    Notices to Correspondents                                 634

    Advertisements                                            634

       *       *       *       *       *

Notes.

WITCHCRAFT IN SOMERSETSHIRE.

Perhaps the following account of superstitions now entertained in some parts of Somersetshire,
will be interesting to the inquirers into the history of witchcraft. I was lately informed
by a member of my congregation that two children living near his house were bewitched. I made
inquiries into the matter, and found that witchcraft is by far less uncommon than I had imagined.
I can hardly adduce the two children as an authenticated case, because the medical gentleman
who attended them pronounced their illness to be a kind of ague: but I leave the two following
cases on record in "N. & Q." as memorable instances of witchcraft in the nineteenth century.

A cottager, who does not live five minutes' walk from my house, found his pig seized with a
strange and unaccountable disorder. He, being a sensible man, instead of asking the advice
of a veterinary surgeon, immediately went to the white witch (a gentleman who drives a flourishing
trade in this neighbourhood). He received his directions, and went home and implicitly followed
them. In perfect silence, he went to the pigsty; and lancing each foot and both ears of the
pig, he allowed the blood to run into a piece of common dowlas. Then taking two large pins,
he pierced the dowlas in opposite directions; and still keeping silence, entered his cottage,
locked the door, placed the bloody rag upon the fire, heaped up some turf over it, and reading
a few verses of the Bible, waited till the dowlas was burned. As soon as this was done, he
returned to the pigsty; found his pig perfectly restored to health, and, mirabile dictu! as
the white witch had predicted, the old woman, who it was supposed had bewitched the pig, came
to inquire after the pig's health. The animal never suffered a day's illness afterwards. My
informant was the owner of the pig himself.

Perhaps, when I heard this story, there may have been a lurking expression of doubt upon my
face, so that my friend thought it necessary to give me farther proof. Some time ago a lane
in this town began to be looked upon with a mysterious awe, for every evening a strange white
rabbit {614} would appear in it, and, running up and down, would mysteriously disappear. Dogs
were frequently put on the scent, but all to no purpose, the white rabbit could not be caught;
and rumours soon began to assert pretty confidently, that the white rabbit was nothing more
nor less than a witch. The man whose pig had been bewitched was all the more confident; as
every evening when the rabbit appeared, he had noticed the bed-room window of his old enemy's
house open! At last a large party of bold-hearted men one evening were successful enough to
find the white rabbit in a garden, the only egress from which is through a narrow passage between
two cottages, all the rest of the garden being securely surrounded by brick-walls. They placed
a strong guard in this entry to let nothing pass, while the remainder advanced as skirmishers
among the cabbages: one of these was successful, and caught the white rabbit by the ears, and,
not without some trepidation, carried it towards the reserve in the entry. But, as he came
nearer to his friends, his courage grew; and gradually all the wrongs his poor pig had suffered,
took form and vigour in a powerful kick at the poor little rabbit! No sooner had he done this
than, he cannot tell how, the rabbit was out of his grasp; the people in the entry saw it come,
but could not stop it; through them all it went, and has never been seen again. But now to
the proof of the witchcraft. The old woman, whom all suspected, was laid up in her bed for
three days afterwards, unable to walk about: all in consequence of the kick she had received
in the shape of a white rabbit!

S. A. S.

Bridgewater.

       *       *       *       *       *

"EMBLEMATA HORATIANA."

Whatever may be proposed as to republishing works of English emblems, the work published in
Holland with the above title at all events deserves to be better known. All the English works
on the subject I ever saw, are poor indeed compared with the above: indeed, I think most books
of emblems are either grounded or compiled from this interesting work; which is to the artist
a work of the deepest interest, since all the designs are by Otho Venius, the master of Rubens.
Not only are the morals conveyed lofty and sound, but the figures are first-rate specimens
of drawing. I believe it is this work that Malone says Sir Joshua Reynolds learned to draw
from: and if he really did, he could have had nothing better, whatever age he might be. There
is a small copy I think published in England, but a very poor one: the original work, of which
I possess a portion only, is large, and engraved with great care. And I have often thought
it a pity such an admirable work should be so scarce and little known. Whoever did it, it must
have occupied many years, in those slow days, to make the designs and engrave them. At the
present day lithography, or some of the easy modes of engraving, would soon multiply it. The
size of the engravings are rather more than seven inches. Many of the figures have been used
repeatedly by Rubens, and also some of the compositions. And though he is certainly a better
painter, he falls far short in originality compared with his master; and, I may add, in richness
of material. I should say his chief works are to be found in that book. One of my leaves is
numbered 195: so I should judge the work to be very large, and to embrace a variety of subjects.
Some of the figures are worthy of Raffaelle. I may instance one called the "Balance of Friendship."
Two young men have a balance between them; one side is filled with feathers, and the other
with weightier offerings: the meaning being, we should not allow favours and gifts to come
all from one side. The figures have their hands joined, and appear to be in argument: their
ample drapery is worthy of a study for apostles.

"Undertake nothing beyond your Strength" is emblemised by the giants scaling the heavens: one
very fine figure, full of action, in the centre, is most admirably drawn.

"Education and Habit" is another, full of meaning. Two dogs are running: one after game, and
another to a porringer. Some one has translated the verses at the bottom on the back of the
print as follows. This has a fine group of figures in it:

 "When taught by man, the hound pursues
    The panting stag o'er hill and fell,
  With steadfast eyes he keeps in view
    The noble game he loves so well.
  A mongrel coward slinks away,
    The buck, the chase, ne'er warms his soul;
  No huntsman's cheer can make him stay,
    He runs to nothing, but his porridge bowl.

  Throughout the race of men, 'tis still the same,
  And all pursue a different kind of game.
  Taverns and wine will form the tastes of some,
  Others success in maids or wives undone.
  To solid good, the wise pursues his way;
  Nor for low pleasure ever deigns to stay.
  Though in thy chamber all the live-long day,
  In studious mood, you pass the hours away;
  Or though you pace the noisy streets alone,
  And silent watch day's burning orb go down;
  Nature to thee displays her honest page:
  Read there--and see the follies of an age."

The taste for emblemata appears to have passed by, but a good selection would be I think received
with favour; particularly if access could be obtained to a good collection. And I should like
to {615} see any addition to the REV. J. CORSER's list in the Number of the 14th of May.

WELD TAYLOR.

       *       *       *       *       *

SHAKSPEARE CRITICISM.

When I entered on the game of criticism in "N. & Q.," I deemed that it was to be played with
good humour, in the spirit of courtesy and urbanity, and that, consequently, though there might
be much worthless criticism and conjecture, the result would on the whole be profitable. Finding
that such is not to be the case, I retire from the field, and will trouble "N. & Q." with no
more of my lucubrations.

I have been led to this resolution by the language employed by MR. ARROWSMITH in No. 189.,
where, with little modesty, and less courtesy, he styles the commentators on Shakspeare--naming
in particular, KNIGHT, COLLIER, and DYCE, and including SINGER and all of the present day--criticasters
who "stumble and bungle in sentences of that simplicity and grammatical clearness as not to
tax the powers of a third-form schoolboy to explain." In order to bring me "within his danger,"
he actually transposes two lines of Shakspeare; and so, to the unwary, makes me appear to be
a very shallow person indeed.

    "It was gravely," says Mr. A., "almost magisterially, proposed by one
    of the disputants [MR. SINGER] to corrupt the concluding lines by
    altering their the pronoun into there the adverb, because (shade of
    Murray!) the commentator could not discover of what noun their could
    possibly be the pronoun, in these lines following:

     'When great things labouring perish in their birth,
      Their form confounded makes most form in mirth;'

    and it was left to MR. KEIGHTLEY to bless the world with the
    information that it was things."

In all the modern editions that I have been able to consult, these lines are thus printed and
punctuated:

 "Their form confounded makes most form in mirth;
  When great things labouring perish in the birth:"

and their is referred to contents. I certainly seem to have been the first to refer it to things.

Allow me, as it is my last, to give once more the whole passage as it is in the folios, unaltered
by MR. COLLIER's Magnus Apollo, and with my own punctuation:

 "That sport best pleases, that doth least know how,
  Where zeal strives to content, and the contents
  Dyes in the zeal of that which it presents.
                  Love's Labour's Lost, Act V. Sc. 2.

My interpretation, it will be seen, beside referring their to things, makes dyes in signify
tinges, imbues with; of which use of the expression I now offer the following instances:

 "And the grey ocean into purple dye."
                  Faery Queene, ii. 10. 48.

 "Are deck'd with blossoms dyed in white and red."
                  Ib.., ii. 12. 12.

 "Dyed in the dying slaughter of their foes."
                  King John, Act II. Sc. 2.

 "And it was dyed in mummy."
                  Othello, Act III. Sc. 4.

 "O truant Muse! what shall be thy amends
  For thy neglect of truth in beauty dyed?"
                  Sonn. 101.

For the use of this figure I may quote from the Shakspeare of France:

 "Mais pour moi, qui, caché sous une autre aventure,
  D'une âme plus commune ai pris quelque teinture."
                  Héraclius, Act III. Sc. 1.

    "The house ought to dye all the surrounding country with a strength
    of colouring, and to an extent proportioned to its own
    importance."--Life of Wordsworth, i. 355.

Another place on which I had offered a conjecture, and which MR. A. takes under his patronage,
is "Clamor your tongues" (Winter's Tale, Act IV. Sc. 4.) and in proof of clamor being the right
word, he quotes passages from a book printed in 1542, in which are chaumbreed and chaumbre,
in the sense of restraining. I see little resemblance here to clamor, and he does not say that
he would substitute chaumbre. He says, "Most judiciously does Nares reject Gifford's corruption
of this word into charm [it was Grey not Gifford]; nor will the suffrage of the 'clever' old
commentator," &c. It is very curious, only that we criticasters are so apt to overrun our game,
that the only place where "charm your tongue" really occurs, seems to have escaped MR. COLLIER.
In Othello, Act V. Sc. 2., Iago says to his wife, "Go to, charm your tongue;" and she replies,
"I will not charm my tongue." My conjecture was that clamor was clam, or, as it was usually
spelt, clem, to press or restrain; and to this I still adhere.

                 "When my entrails
  Were clemmed with keeping a perpetual fast."
                  Massinger, Rom. Actor., Act II. Sc. 1.

    "I cannot eat stones and turfs: say, what will he clem me and my
    followers?"--Jonson, Poetaster, Act I. Sc. 2.

    "Hard is the choice when the valiant must eat their arms or clem."
    Id., Every Man Out of his Humour Act III. Sc. 6.

In these places of Jonson, clem is usually rendered starve; but it appears to me, from the
kindred of the term, that it is used elliptically. Perhaps, instead of "Till famine cling thee"
(Macbeth, Act V. Sc. 5.), Shakspeare wrote "Till {616} famine clem thee." While in the region
of conjecture, I will add that coasting, in Troilus and Cressida (Act IV. Sc. 5.), is, in my
opinion, simply accosting, lopped in the usual way by aphæresis; and that "the still-peering
air" in All's Well that Ends Well (Act III. Sc. 2.), is, by the same figure, "the still-appearing
air," i. e. the air that appears still and silent, but that yet "sings with piercing."

One conjecture more, and I have done. I do not like altering the text without absolute necessity;
but there was always a puzzle to me in this passage:

                 "Where I find him, were it
  At home, upon my brother's guard, even there,
  Against the hospitable canon, would I
  Wash my fierce hand in 's blood."
                  Coriol., Act I. Sc. 10.

Why should Aufidius speak thus of a brother who is not mentioned anywhere else in the play
or in Plutarch? It struck me one day that Shakspeare might have written, "Upon my household
hearth;" and on looking into North's Plutarch, I found that when Coriolanus went to the house
of Aufidius, "he got him up straight to the chimney-hearth, and sate him downe." The poet who
adhered so faithfully to his Plutarch may have wished to preserve this image, and, chimney
not being a very poetic word, may have substituted household, or some equivalent term. Again
I say this is all but conjecture.

THOMAS KEIGHTLEY.

P.S.--It is really very annoying to have to reply to unhandsome and unjust accusations. The
REV. MR. ARROWSMITH first transposes two lines of Shakspeare, and then, by notes of admiration,
holds me up as a mere simpleton; and then A. E. B. charges me with having pirated from him
my explanation of a passage in Love's Labour's Lost, Act V. Sc. 2. Let any one compare his
(in "N. & Q.," Vol. vi., p. 297.) with mine (Vol. vii., p. 136.), and he will see the utter
falseness of the assertion. He makes contents the nom. to dies, taken in its ordinary sense
(rather an unusual concord). I take dyes in the sense of tinges, imbues with, and make it governed
of zeal. But perhaps it is to the full-stop at presents that the "that's my thunder!" applies.
I answer, that that was a necessary consequence of the sense in which I had taken dies, and
that their must then refer to things maugre MR. ARROWSMITH. And when he says that I "do him
the honour of requoting the line with which he had supported it," I merely observe that it
is the line immediately following, and that I have eyes and senses as well as A. E. B.

A. E. B. deceives himself, if he thinks that literary fame is to be acquired in this way. I
do not much approve either of the manner in which, at least to my apprehension, in his opening
paragraph, he seems to insinuate a charge of forgery against MR. COLLIER. Finally, I can tell
him that he need not crow and clap his wings so much at his emendation of the passage in Lear,
for, if I mistake not, few indeed will receive it. It may be nuts to him and MR. ARROWSMITH
to know that they have succeeded in driving my name out of the "N. & Q."

       *       *       *       *       *

RED HAIR A REPROACH.

I do not know the why or the wherefore, but in every part of England I have visited, there
appears to be a deep-rooted prejudice in the eyes of the million against people with red hair.
Tradition, whether truly or not must remain a mystery, assigns to Absalom's hair a reddish
tinge; and Judas, the traitorous disciple, is ever painted with locks of the same unhappy colour.
Shakspeare, too, seems to have been embued with the like morbid feeling of distrust for those
on whose hapless heads the invidious mark appeared. In his play of As You Like It, he makes
Rosalind (who is pettishly complaining of her lover's tardiness coming to her) say to Celia:

 "Ros. His very hair is of the dissembling colour.
  Celia. Something browner than Judas'."

It will be apparent from this quotation, that in England, at any rate, the prejudice spoken
of is not of very recent development; and that it has not yet vanished before the intellectual
progress of our race, will, I think, be painfully evident to many a bearer of this unenviable
distinction. It seems to be generally supposed, by those who harbour the doctrine, that red-headed
people are dissemblers, deceitful, and, in fact, not to be trusted like others whose hair is
of a different colour; and I may add, that I myself know persons who, on that account alone,
never admit into their service any whose hair is thus objectionable. In Wales, pen coch (red
head) is a term of reproach universally applied to all who come under the category; and if
such a wight should by any chance involve himself in a scrape, it is the signal at once for
a regular tirade against all who have the misfortune to possess hair of the same fiery colour.

I cannot bring myself to believe that there is any really valid foundation for this prejudice;
and certainly, if not, it were indeed a pity that the superstitious feeling thus engendered
is not at once and for ever banished from the memory.

T. HUGHES.

       *       *       *       *       *

EXTRACTS FROM NEWSPAPERS, 1714.

Daily Courant, Jan. 9, 1714:

    "Rome, Dec. 16.--The famous painter, Carlo Maratta, died some days ago,
    in the ninetieth year of his age."

The Post Boy, Jan. 12-14, 1714.--Old MSS. relating to Winchester.--In the Post Boy, Jan. {617}
12-14, 1714, appears the following curious advertisement:

    "Winchester Antiquities, written by Mr. Trussell, Dr. Bettes, and Mr.
    Butler of St. Edmund's Bury, in one of which manuscripts is the
    Original of Cities; which manuscripts were never published. If the
    person who hath either of them, and will communicate, or permit the
    same to be copied or perused, he is earnestly desired to give notice
    thereof to Mr. Mathew Imber, one of the aldermen of the city of
    Winchester, in the county of Southampton, who is compleating the idea
    or description of the ancient and present state of that ancient city,
    to be speedily printed; together with a faithful collection of all the
    memorable and useful things relating to the same city."

Gough, in his Topography, vol. i. p. 387., thus notices these MSS.:

    "Wood says (Ath. Ox., vol. i. p. 448.) that Trussell the historian,
    who was alderman of Winchester, continued to Bishop Curll's time, 1632,
    an old MS. history of the see and bishops in the Cathedral library. He
    also wrote A Description of the City of Winchester; with an Historical
    Relation of divers memorable Occurrences touching the same, and
    prefixed to it A Preamble of the Original of Cities in general. In a
    catalogue of the famous Robert Smith's books, sold by auction, 1682,
    No. 24. among the MSS. has this identical title, by J. Trussell, fol.,
    and was purchased for twelve shillings by a Mr. Rothwell, a frequent
    purchaser at this sale. The Description, &c., written by Trussell
    about 1620, is now in the hands of John Duthy, Esq.; and from it large
    extracts were made in The History and Antiquities of Winchester,
    1773. Bishop Nicolson guesses that it was too voluminous, and Bishop
    Kennett that it was too imperfect to be published.

    "The former mentions something on the same subject by Dr. Bettes, whose
    book is still in MS.

    "Dr. Butler, of St. Edmund's Bury, made observations on the ancient
    monuments of this city under the Romans."

E. G. BALLARD.

    [Trussell's MSS. are now in the library of Sir Thomas Phillipps.--ED.]

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Notes.

Last Suicide buried at a Cross Road.--I have reason to believe that the last person subjected
to this barbarous ceremony was the wretched parricide and suicide Griffiths, who was buried
at the cross road formed by Eaton Street, Grosvenor Place, and the King's Road, as late as
June, 1823. I subjoin the following account from the Chronicle:

    "The extreme privacy which the officers observed, as to the hour and
    place of interment, increased in a great degree the anxiety of those
    that were waiting, and it being suspected that the body would have been
    privately carried away, through the back part of the workhouse (St.
    George's) into Farm Street Mews, and from thence to its final
    destination, different parties stationed themselves at the several
    passages through which it must unavoidably pass, in order to prevent
    disappointment. All anxiety however, on this account, was ultimately
    removed, by preparations being made for the removal of the body through
    the principal entry of the workhouse leading into Mount Street, and
    about half-past one o'clock the body was brought out in a shell
    supported on the shoulders of four men, and followed by a party of
    constables and watchmen. When the procession arrived at the grave, which had been
    previously dug, the constables arranged themselves around it to keep
    the crowd off, upon which the shell was laid on the ground, and the
    body of the unfortunate deceased taken out. It had on a winding-sheet,
    drawers, and stockings, and a quantity of blood was clotted about the
    head, and the lining of the shell entirely stained. The body was then
    wrapped in a piece of Russia matting, tied round with some cord, and
    then instantly dropped into the hole, which was about five feet in
    depth: it was then immediately filled up, and it was gratifying to see
    that that disgusting part of the ceremony of throwing lime over the
    body, and driving a stake through it, was on this occasion dispensed
    with. The surrounding spectators, consisting of about two hundred
    persons, amongst whom were several persons of respectable appearance,
    were much disgusted at this horrid ceremony."

Imagine such scene in the "centre of civilisation" only thirty years ago!

VINCENT T. STERNBERG.

Andrew's Edition of Freund's Latin Lexicon.--A singular plan seems to have been pursued in
this valuable lexicon in one point. Wherever the meaning of a word in a certain passage is
disputed, all reference to that place is omitted! Here are a few examples of this "dodge" from
one book, Horace:

  Subjectus. Car. 1. 12. 55.
  Divido. 1. 15. 15.
  Incola. 1. 16. 5. Vertex. 3. 24. 6.
  Pars. 2. 17. 18. Tormentum. 3. 21. 13.
  Laudo. Ep. 11. 19.
  Offendo. Ep. 15. 15.
  Octonus. S. 1. 6. 75.
  Æra. Ib.
  Duplex. S. 2. 4. 63.
  Vulpecula. Epist. 1. 7. 29.
  Proprius. A. P. 128., &c.

A. A. D.

Slang Expressions.--It would be curious to investigate farther how some odd forms of expression
of this kind have crept into, if not the English language, at least into every-day parlance;
and by what classes of men they have been introduced. I do not of course mean the vile argot,
or St. Giles' {618} Greek, prevalent among housebreakers and pick-pockets; though a great deal
of that is traceable to the Rommany or gipsy language, and other sufficiently odd sources:
but I allude more particularly to phrases used by even educated men--such as "a regular mull,"
"bosh," "just the cheese," &c. The first has already been proved an importation from our Anglo-Indian
friends in the pages of "N. & Q."; and I have been informed that the other two are also exotics
from the land of the Qui-Hies. Bosh, used by us in the sense of "nonsense," "rubbish," is a
Persian word, meaning "dirt" and cheese, a corruption of a Hindostani word denoting "thing:"
which is exactly the sense of the expression I have quoted. "Just the cheese," "quite the cheese,"
i. e. just the thing I require, quite comme il faut, &c.

Probably some of your correspondents could furnish other examples.

E. S. TAYLOR.

"Quem Deus vult perdere."--In Croker's Johnson, vol. v. p. 60., the phrase, "Quem Deus vult
perdere, prius dementat," is stated to be from a Greek iambic of Euripides:

 "[Greek: Hon theos thelei apolesai prôt' apophrenai]."

This statement is made first by Mr. John Pitts, late Rector of Great Brickhill, Bucks[1], to
Mr. Richard How of Aspley, Beds, and is taken for granted successively by Boswell, Malone,
and Croker.

The cause of this classical blunder of so many eminent annotators is, that these words are
not to be found in the usual college and school editions of Euripides. The edition from which
the above correct extract is made is in ten volumes, published at Padua in 1743-53, with an
Italian translation in verse by P. Carmeli, and is to be found in vol. x. p. 268. as the 436-7th
verses of the Tragedie incerte, the meaning of which he thus gives in prose "Quando vogliono
gli Dei far perire alcuno, gli toglie la mente."

T.J. BUCKTON.

Lichfield.

P.S.--In Croker's Johnson, vol. iv. p. 170., the phrase "Omnia mea mecum porto" is incorrectly
quoted from Val. Max. vii. 2., instead of "Bona mea mecum porto."

[Footnote 1: This gentleman is wrong in saying demento is of no authority, as it is found in
Lactantius. (See Facciolati.)]

White Roses.--The paragraph quoted from "an old newspaper," dated Saturday, June 15th, 1723,
alludes to the commemoration of the birthday of King James VIII. (the 10th of June), which
was the Monday mentioned as that before the Saturday on which the newspaper was published.
All faithful adherents of the House of Stuart showed their loyalty by wearing the white rose
(its distinguishing badge) on the 10th of June, when no other way was left them of declaring
their devotion to the exiled family; and, from my own knowledge, I can affirm that there still
exist some people who would think that day desecrated unless they wore a white rose, or, when
that is not to be procured, a cockade of white ribbon, in token of their veneration for the
memory of him of whose birth it is the anniversary.

L. M. M. R.

       *       *       *       *       *

Queries.

"MERK LANDS" AND "URES."--NORWEGIAN ANTIQUITIES.

In Shetland, at the present day, all public assessments are levied, and divisions made, according
to the number of merk lands in a parish. All arable lands were anciently, under the Norwegian
law, rated as merks,--a merk containing eight ures. These merks are quite indefinite as to
extent. It is, indeed, clear that the ancient denomination of merk land had not reference to
superficial extent of surface, but was a denomination of value alone, in which was included
the proportion of the surrounding commonty or scattald. Merk lands are of different values,
as sixpenny, ninepenny, twelvepenny,--a twelvepenny merk having, formerly at least, been considered
equal to two sixpenny merks; and in some old deeds lands are described as thirty merks sixpenny,
otherwise fifteen merks twelvepenny land. All assessments have, however, for a very long period,
been levied and all privileges apportioned, according to merks, without relation to whether
they were sixpenny or twelvepenny. The ancient rentals of Shetland contain about fourteen thousand
merks of land; and it will be noticed that, however much the ancient inclosed land be increased
by additional improvements, the number of merks ought to be, and are, stationary. The valued
rent, divided according the merk lands, would make a merk land in Shetland equal to 2l. Scots
of valued rent. There are only one or two places of Scotland proper where merks are in use,--Stirling
and Dunfermline, I think. As these two places were the occasional residences of our ancient
Scottish kings, it is possible this plan of estimating land may have obtained there, to equalise
and make better understood some arrangements relating to land entered into between the kings
of Norway and Scotland. Possibly some of the correspondents of "N. & Q." in the north may be
able to throw some light on this subject. It was stated some time ago that Dr. Munch, Professor
in the University of Christiana, had presented to the Society of Northern Archæology, in {619}
Copenhagen, a very curious manuscript which he had discovered and purchased during a voyage
to the Orkneys and Shetland in 1850. The manuscript is said to be in good preservation, and
the form of the characters assigns the tenth, or perhaps the ninth century as its date. It
is said to contain, in the Latin tongue, several episodes of Norwegian history, relating to
important facts hitherto unknown, and which throw much light on feudal tenures, holdings, superstitions,
omens, &c., which have been handed down to our day, with their origin involved in obscurity,
and on the darkness of the centuries that preceded the introduction of Christianity into Norway.
Has this manuscript ever been printed?

KIRKWALLENSIS.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE LEIGH PEERAGE, AND STONELEY ESTATES, WARWICKSHIRE.

The fifth Lord Leigh left his estates to his sister, the Hon. Mary Leigh, for her life, and
at her decease without issue to "the first and nearest of his kindred, being male, and of his
name and blood," &c. On the death of Mrs. Mary Leigh in 1806, the estates were taken possession
of by her very distant kinsman, the Rev. Thomas Leigh. The first person to dispute his right
to them was Mr. George Smith Leigh, who claimed them as being descended from a daughter of
Sir Thomas Leigh, son of the first Baron Leigh. His claim was not allowed, because he had the
name of Leigh only by royal license, and not by inheritance. Subsequently, the Barony of Leigh
was claimed by another Mr. George Leigh, of Lancashire, as descended from a son of the Hon.
Christopher Leigh (fourth son of the aforesaid Sir Thomas Leigh), by his second wife. His claim
was disallowed when heard by a committee of the House of Lords in 1828, because he could not
prove the second marriage of Christopher Leigh, nor the birth of any son by such marriage.

Being about to print a genealogy of the Leigh family, I should be under an obligation to any
one who will, without delay furnish me with--

1st. The descent, with dates, of the aforesaid Mr. George Smith Leigh from Sir Thomas Leigh.

2nd. The wife, and descendants to the present time, of the aforesaid Mr. George Leigh.

In return for this information I shall be happy to send my informant a copy of the genealogy
when it is printed. I give you my name and address.

J. M. G.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Queries.

Phillips Family.--Is there a family of Phillips now bearing the ancient arms of William Phillips,
Lord Bardolph: viz. Quarterly, gu. and az., in the chief dexter quarter an eagle displayed or.

H. G. S.

Engine-à-verge.--What is the engine-à-verge, mentioned by P. Daniel in his Hist. de la Milice
Franc., and what the origin of the name?

CAPE.

Garrick's Funeral Epigram.--Who is the author of these verses?

 "Through weeping London's crowded streets,
    As Garrick's funeral pass'd,
  Contending wits and poets strove
    Which should desert him last.

K. N.

The Rosicrucians.--I should be extremely glad of a little information respecting "the Brethren
of the Rosy Cross." Was there ever a regular fraternity of philosophers bearing this appellation;
or was it given merely as a title to all students in alchemy?

I should wish to obtain a list of works which might contain a record of their studies and discoveries.
I subjoin the few in my own library, which I imagine to belong to this class.

    Albertus Magnus de Animalibus, libr. xxvi. fol. Venet. 1495.

    Albertus Magnus de Secretis Mulierum, de Virtutibus Herbarum, Lapidum
    at Animalium.

    Albertus Magnus de Miribilibus Mundi, item.

    Michael Scotus de Secretis Naturæ, 12mo., Lugd. 1584.

    Henr. Corn. Agrippa on the Vanitie of Sciences, 4to., London, 1575.

    Joann. Baptist. Van Helmont, Opera Omnina, 4to., Francofurti, 1682.

    Dr. Charleton, Ternary of Paradoxes, London, 1650.

Perhaps some of your correspondents will kindly furnish me with notices of other works by these
writers, and by others who have written on similar subjects, as Paracelsus, &c.

E. S. TAYLOR.

Passage in Schiller.--In the Memoirs of a Stomach, lately published, the editor asks a question
of you: "Is it Schiller who says, 'The metaphysical part of love commences with the first sigh,
and terminates with the first kiss'?" I pray you look to the merry and witty and learned little
book, and respond to his Query.

AMICUS.

Sir John Vanbrugh.--This eminent architect and poet of the last century is stated by his biographers
to have been "born in Cheshire." Can anybody furnish me with the place and date of his birth?

T. HUGHES.

Chester.

Historical Engraving.--I have an ancient engraving, size 14¾ in. wide and 11¾ in. high, without
title or engraver's name, which I should be {620} glad to authenticate. It appears to represent
Charles II. at the Hague in 1660.

The foreground is occupied by groups of figures in the costume of the period. In the distance
is seen a street in perspective, down which the royal carriage is proceeding, drawn by six
horses. On one side is a row of horses, on the other an avenue of trees. To the right of this
is a canal, on the bank of which a battery of seven guns is firing a salute. The opposite bank
is occupied by public buildings.

In the air a figure of Fame holds a shield charged with the royal arms of England, surrounded
by a garter, without the motto. Five cherubs in various positions are dispersed around, holding
respectively a globe, a laurel crown, palm branches, &c., and a crowned shield bearing a lion
rampant, and a second with a stork, whose beak holds a serpent.

A portion of the zodiacal circle, containing Libra, Scorpio, and Sagittarius, marks, I suppose,
the month in which the event took place.

E. S. TAYLOR.

Hall-close, Silverstone, Northamptonshire.--Adjoining the church-yard is a greensward field
called "Hall-close," which is more likely to be the site of the mansion visited by the early
kings of England, when hunting in Whittlebury Forest, than the one mentioned by Bridles in
his History of the county. About 1798, whilst digging here, a fire-place containing ashes was
discovered; also many large wrought freestones.

The well, close by, still retains the name of Hall-well; and there are other things in the
immediate vicinity which favour the supposition; but can an extract from an old MS., as a will,
deed, indenture, &c., be supplied to confirm it?

H. T. WAKE.

Stepney.

Junius's Letters to Wilkes.--Where are the original letters addressed by Junius to Mr. Wilkes?
The editor of the Grenville Papers says, "It is uncertain in whose custody the letters now
remain, many unsuccessful attempts having been recently made to ascertain the place of their
deposit."

D. G.

The Reformer's Elm.--What was the origin of the name of "The Reformer's Elm?" Where and what
was it?

C. M. T.

Oare.

How to take Paint off old Oak.--Can any of your correspondents inform me of some way to take
paint off old oak?

F. M. MIDDLETON.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Queries with Answers.

Cadenus and Vanessa.--What author is referred to in the lines in Swift's "Cadenus and Vanessa,"--

 "He proves as sure as GOD's in Gloster,
  That Moses was a grand impostor;
  That all his miracles were tricks," &c.?

W. FRASER.

Tor-Mohun.

    [These lines occur in the Dean's verses "On the Death of Dr. Swift,"
    and refer to Thomas Woolston, the celebrated heterodox divine, who, as
    stated in a note quoted in Scott's edition, "for want of bread hath, in
    several treatises, in the most blasphemous manner, attempted to turn
    our Saviour's miracles in ridicule."]

Boom.--Is there an English verb active to boom, and what is the precise meaning of it? Sir
Walter Scott uses the participle:

 "The bittern booming from the sedgy shallow."
                  Lady of the Lake, canto i. 31.

VOGEL.

    [Richardson defines BOOM, v., applied as bumble by Chaucer, and
    bump by Dryden, to the noise of the bittern, and quotes from Cotton's
    Night's Quatrains,--

     "Philomel chants it whilst it bleeds,
      The bittern booms it in the reeds," &c.]

"A Letter to a Member of Parliament."--Who was the author of A Letter to a Member of Parliament,
occasioned by A Letter to a Convocation Man: W. Rogers, London, 1697?

W. FRASER.

Tor-Mohun.

    [Attributed to Mr. Wright, a gentleman of the Bar, who maintains the
    same opinions with Dr. Wake.]

Ancient Chessmen.--I should be glad to learn, through the medium of "N. & Q.," some particulars
relative to the sixty-four chessmen and fourteen draughtsmen, made of walrus tusk, found in
the Isle of Lewis in Scotland, and now in case 94. Mediæval Collection of the British Museum?

HORNOWAY.

    [See Archæologia, vol. xxiv. p. 203., for a valuable article,
    entitled "Historical Remarks on the introduction of the Game of Chess
    into Europe, and on the ancient Chessmen discovered in the Isle of
    Lewis, by Frederick Madden, Esq., F.R.S., in a Letter addressed to
    Henry Ellis, Esq., F.R.S., Secretary."]

Guthryisms.--In a work entitled Select Trials at the Old Bailey is an account of the trial
and execution of Robert Hallam, for murder, in the year 1731. Narrating the execution of the
criminal, and mentioning some papers which he had prepared, the writer says: "We will not tire
the reader's patience with transcribing these prayers, in which we can see nothing more than
commonplace phrases and unmeaning Guthryisms." What {621} is the meaning of this last word,
and to whom does it refer?

S. S. S.

