The first sight, however, which it fell to my lot to witness at Brussels in this second and
short visit, was neither gay nor handsome, nor dear in any sense, but the very reverse; it
being that of the punishment of the guillotine inflicted on a wretched murderer, named John
Baptist Michel.[2] Hearing, at the moment of my arrival, that this tragical scene was on the
point of being acted in the great square of the market-place, I determined for once to make
a sacrifice of my feelings to the desire of being present at a spectacle, with the nature of
which the recollections of revolutionary horrors are so intimately associated. Accordingly,
following to the spot a guard of soldiers appointed to assist at the execution, I disengaged
myself as soon as possible from the pressure of the immense crowd already assembled, and obtained
a seat at the window of a house immediately opposite the Hotel-de-Ville, in front of the principal
entrance to which the guillotine had been erected. At the hour of twelve at noon precisely,
the malefactor, tall, athletic, and young, having his hands tied behind his back, and being
stripped to the waist, was brought to the square in a cart, under an escort of gen-d'armes,
attended by an elderly and respectable ecclesiastic; who, having been previously occupied in
administering the consolations of religion to the condemned person in prison, now appeared
incessantly employed in tranquillizing him on his way to the scaffold. Arrived near the fatal
machine, the unhappy man stepped out of the vehicle, knelt at the feet of his confessor, received
the priestly benediction, kissed some individuals who accompanied him, and was hurried by the
officers of justice up the steps of the cube-form structure of wood, painted of a blood-red,
on which stood the dreadful apparatus of death. To reach the top of the platform, to be fast
bound to a board, to be placed horizontally under the axe, and deprived of life by its unerring
blow, was, in the case of this miserable offender, the work literally of a moment. It was indeed
an awfully sudden transit from time to eternity. He could only cry out, "Adieu, mes amis,"
and he was gone. The severed head, passing through a red-coloured bag fixed under, fell to
the ground--the blood spouted forth from the neck like water from a fountain--the body, lifted
up without delay, was flung down through a trap-door in the platform. Never did capital punishment
more quickly take effect on a human being; and whilst the executioner was coolly taking out
the axe from the groove of the machine, and placing it, covered as it was with gore, in a box,
the remains of the culprit, deposited in a shell, were hoisted into a wagon, and conveyed to
the prison. In twenty minutes all was over, and the Grande Place nearly cleared of its thousands,
on whom the dreadful scene seemed to have made, as usual, the slightest possible impression--Stevenson's
Tour in France, Switzerland, &c.

    [2] The circumstances of the case were as follows:--Jean
    Baptiste Michel, aged 36, a blacksmith, accompanied by a female
    named Marie Anne Debeyst, aged 22, was proceeding from Brussels
    to Vilvorde, one day in the month of March, 1824. In the
    Alleverte, they overtook a servant girl, who was imprudent
    enough to mention to them that her master had entrusted her
    with a sum of money. Near Vilvorde, Michel and his paramour,
    having formed their plan of assassination and robbery, rejoined
    the poor girl, whom they had momentarily left, and violently
    demanded the bag containing the gold and silver. The
    unfortunate young creature resisted their attacks as long as
    she could, but was soon felled to the ground by Michel, who
    with a thick stick fractured her skull, whilst Debeyst trod
    upon the prostrate victim of their horrid crime. These wretches
    were shortly afterwards arrested and committed to prison. On
    the 5th of April, 1825, they were condemned to death by the
    Court of Assize at Brussels, but implored of the royal clemency
    a commutation of punishment. This was granted to the woman,
    whose sentence was changed to perpetual imprisonment. Michel's
    petition was rejected.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE HEIR PRESUMPTIVE.

Of all the miseries of human life, and God knows they are manifold enough, there are few more
utterly heart-sickening and overwhelming than those endured by the unlucky Heir Presumptive;
when, after having submitted to the whims and caprices of some rich relation, and endured a
state of worse than Egyptian bondage, for a long series of years, he finds himself cut off
with a shilling, or a mourning ring; and the El Dorado of his tedious term of probation and
expectancy devoted to the endowment of methodist chapels and Sunday schools; or bequeathed
to some six months' friend (usually a female housekeeper, or spiritual adviser) who, entering
the vineyard at the eleventh hour, (the precise moment at which his patience and humility become
exhausted,) carries off the golden prize, and adds another melancholy confirmation, to those
already upon record, of the fallacy of all human anticipations. It matters little what may
have been the motives of his conduct; whether duty, affection, or that more powerful incentive
self-interest; how long or how devotedly he may have humoured the foibles or eccentricities
of his relative; or what sacrifices he may have made to enable him to comply with his unreasonable
caprices: the result is almost invariably the same. The last year of the Heir Presumptive's
purgatory, nay, perhaps even the last month, or the last week, is often the drop to the full
cup of his endurance. His patience, however it may have been propped by self-interest, or feelings
of a more refined description, usually breaks down before the allotted term has expired; and
the whole fabric it has cost him such infinite labour to erect, falls to the ground along with
it. It is well if his personal exertions, and the annoyances to which he has subjected himself
during the best period of his existence, form the whole of his sacrifices. But, alas! it too
often happens that, encouraged by the probability of succeeding in a few years to an independent
property, and ambitious, moreover, of making such an appearance in society as will afford the
old gentleman or lady no excuse for being ashamed of their connexion with him, he launches
into expenses he would never otherwise have dreamed of incurring, and contracts debts without
regard to his positive means of liquidating them, on the strength of a contingency which, if
he could but be taught to believe it, is of all earthly anticipations the most remote and uncertain.
A passion for unnecessary expense is, under different circumstances, frequently repressed by
an inability to procure credit; but it is the curse and bane of Mr. Omnium's nephew, and Miss
Saveall's niece, that so far from any obstacle being opposed to their prodigality, almost unlimited
indulgence is offered, nay, actually pressed upon them, by the trades-people of their wealthy
relations; who take especial care that their charges shall be of a nature to repay them for
any complaisance or long suffering, as it regards the term of credit, they may be called upon
to display. But independently of the additional expense into which the Heir Presumptive is
often seduced by the operation of these temptations, and his anxiety to live in a style in
some degree accordant with his expectations, what is he not called upon to endure from the
caprices, old-fashioned notions, eccentricities, avarice, and obstinacy, of the old tyrant
to whom he thus consents to sell himself, and it may be his family, body and soul, for an indefinite
number of years.--National Tales.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MONTHS.

JULY.

    The sultry noontide of July
      Now bids us seek the forest's shade;
    Or for the crystal streamlet sigh.
      That flows in some sequestered glade.

B. BARTON.

       *       *       *       *       *

Summer! glowing summer! This is the month of heat and sunshine, of clear, fervid skies, dusty
roads, and shrinking streams; when doors and windows are thrown open, a cool gale is the most
welcome of all visiters, and every drop of rain "is worth its weight in gold." Such is July
commonly--such it was in 1825, and such, in a scarcely less degree, in 1826; yet it is sometimes,
on the contrary, a very showery month, putting the hay-maker to the extremity of his patience,
and the farmer upon anxious thoughts for his ripening corn; generally speaking, however, it
is the heart of our summer. The landscape presents an air of warmth, dryness, and maturity;
the eye roams over brown pastures, corn fields "already white to harvest," dark lines of intersecting
hedge-rows, and darker trees, lifting their heavy heads above them. The foliage at this period
is rich, full, and vigorous; there is a fine haze cast over distant woods and bosky slopes,
and every lofty and majestic tree is filled with a soft shadowy twilight, which adds infinitely
to its beauty--a circumstance that has never been sufficiently noticed by either poet or painter.
Willows are now beautiful objects in the landscape; they are like rich masses of arborescent
silver, especially if stirred by the breeze, their light and fluent forms contrasting finely
with the still and sombre aspect of the other trees.

Now is the general season of haymaking. Bands of mowers, in their light trousers and broad
straw hats, are astir long before the fiery eye of the sun glances above the horizon, that
they may toil in the freshness of the morning, and stretch themselves at noon in luxurious
ease by trickling waters, and beneath the shade of trees. Till then, with regular strokes and
a sweeping sound, the sweet and flowery grass falls before them, revealing at almost every
step, nests of young birds, mice in their cozy domes, and the mossy cells of the humble bee
streaming with liquid honey; anon, troops of haymakers are abroad, tossing the green swaths
wide to the sun. It is one of Nature's festivities, endeared by a thousand pleasant memories
and habits of the olden days, and not a soul can resist it.

There is a sound of tinkling teams and of wagons rolling along lanes and fields the whole country
over, aye, even at midnight, till at length the fragrant ricks rise in the farmyard, and the
pale smooth-shaven fields are left in solitary beauty.

They who know little about it may deem the strong penchant of our poets, and of ourselves,
for rural pleasures, mere romance and poetic illusion; but if poetic beauty alone were concerned,
we must still admire harvest-time in the country. The whole land is then an Arcadia, full of
simple, healthful, and rejoicing spirits. Overgrown towns and manufactories may have changed
for the worse, the spirit and feelings of our population; in them, "evil communications may
have corrupted good manners;" but in the country at large, there never was a more simple-minded,
healthful-hearted, and happy race of people than our present British peasantry. They have cast
off, it is true, many of their ancestors' games and merrymakings, but they have in no degree
lost their soul of mirth and happiness. This is never more conspicuous than in harvest-time.

With the exception of a casual song of the lark in a fresh morning, of the blackbird and thrush
at sunset, or the monotonous wail of the yellow-hammer, the silence of birds is now complete;
even the lesser reed-sparrow, which may very properly be called the English mock-bird, and
which kept up a perpetual clatter with the notes of the sparrow, the swallow, the white-throat,
&c. in every hedge-bottom, day and night, has ceased.

Boys will now be seen in the evening twilight with match, gunpowder, &c., and green boughs
for self-defence, busy in storming the paper-built castles of wasps, the larvae of which furnish
anglers with store of excellent baits. Spring-flowers have given place to a very different
class. Climbing plants mantle and festoon every hedge. The wild hop, the brione, the clematis
or traveller's joy, the large white convolvulus, whose bold yet delicate flowers will display
themselves to a very late period of the year--vetches, and white and yellow ladies-bed-straw--
invest almost every bush with their varied beauty, and breathe on the passer-by their faint
summer sweetness. The campanula rotundifolia, the hare-bell of poets, and the blue-bell of
botanists, arrests the eye on every dry bank, rock, and wayside, with its beautiful cerulean
bells. There too we behold wild scabiouses, mallows, the woody nightshade, wood-betony, and
centaury; the red and white-striped convolvulus also throws its flowers under your feet; corn
fields glow with whole armies of scarlet poppies, cockle, and the rich azure plumes of viper's-bugloss;
even thistles, the curse of Cain, diffuse a glow of beauty over wastes and barren places. Some
species, particularly the musk thistles, are really noble plants, wearing their formidable
arms, their silken vest, and their gorgeous crimson tufts of fragrant flowers issuing from
a coronal of interwoven down and spines, with a grace which casts far into the shade many a
favourite of the garden.

But whoever would taste all the sweetness of July, let him go, in pleasant company, if possible,
into heaths and woods; it is there, in her uncultured haunts, that summer now holds her court.
The stern castle, the lowly convent, the deer and the forester have vanished thence many ages;
yet nature still casts round the forest-lodge, the gnarled oak and lovely mere, the same charms
as ever. The most hot and sandy tracts, which we might naturally imagine would now be parched
up, are in full glory. The erica tetralix, or bell-heath, the most beautiful of our indigenous
species, is now in bloom, and has converted the brown bosom of the waste into one wide sea
of crimson; the air is charged with its honied odour. The dry, elastic turf glows, not only
with its flowers, but with those of the wild thyme, the clear blue milkwort, the yellow asphodel,
and that curious plant the sundew, with its drops of inexhaustible liquor sparkling in the
fiercest sun like diamonds. There wave the cotton-rush, the tall fox-glove, and the taller
golden mullein. There creep the various species of heath-berries, cranberries, bilberries,
&c., furnishing the poor with a source of profit, and the rich of luxury. What a pleasure it
is to throw ourselves down beneath the verdant screen of the beautiful fern, or the shade of
a venerable oak, in such a scene, and listen to the summer sounds of bees, grasshoppers, and
ten thousand other insects, mingled with the more remote and solitary cries of the pewit and
the curlew! Then, to think of the coach-horse, urged on his sultry stage, or the plough-boy
and his teem, plunging in the depths of a burning fallow, or of our ancestors, in times of
national famine, plucking up the wild fern-roots for bread, and what an enhancement of our
own luxurious ease![3]

But woods, the depths of woods, are the most delicious retreats during the fiery noons of July.
The great azure campanulas, or Canterbury bells, are there in bloom, and, in chalk or limestone
districts, there are also now to be found those curiosities, the bee and fly orchises. The
soul of John Evelyn well might envy us a wood lounge at this period.

Time's Telescope.

    [3] It is a fact not known to every juvenile lover of nature,
    that a transverse section of a fern-root presents a miniature
    picture of an oak tree which no painter could rival.

       *       *       *       *       *

ASTRONOMICAL OCCURENCES FOR JULY, 1827.

       *       *       *       *       *

(For the Mirror.)

The sun is in apogee, or at his greatest distance from the earth on the 2nd, in 10 deg. Cancer;
he enters Leo on the 23rd, at 5h. 13m. afternoon; he is in conjunction with the planet Saturn
on the 2nd at 11h. 30m. morning, in 9 deg. Cancer, and with Mars on the 12th at 1h. 45m. afternoon,
being advanced 10 deg. further in the eliptic.

Venus and Saturn are also in conjunction on the 26th at 3 h. afternoon, in 13 deg. Cancer.

Mercury will again be visible for a short time about the middle of the month a little after
the sun has set, arriving on the 16th at his greatest eastern elongation, or apparent distance
from the centre of the system, as seen from the earth in 20 deg. Leo; and in aphelio, or that
point of his orbit most distant from the sun, on the 22nd; he becomes stationary on the 29th.

There is only one visible eclipse of Jupiter's first satellite this month--on the 5th, at 10h.
21m. evening.

The Georgium Sidus, or Herschel, comes to an opposition with the sun on the 19th, at 6h. 15m.
evening; he is then nearest the earth, and consequently in the most favourable position for
observation; he began retrograding on the 1st of May in 28 deg. 12m. of Capricornus; he rises
on the 1st, at 9h. 11m. evening, culminating at 1h. 16m., and setting at 5h. 21m. morning,
pursuing the course of the sun on the 17th of January; he moves only 13m. of a deg. in the
course of the month, rising 2 h. earlier on the 31st.

This planet, called also Uranus, was discovered by Herschel on the 13th of March, 1781. It
is the most distant orb in our system yet known. From certain inequalities on the motion of
Jupiter and Saturn, the existence of a planet of considerable size beyond the orbit of either
had been before suspected; its apparent magnitude, as seen from the earth, is about 3-1/2 sec.,
or of the size of a star of the sixth magnitude, and as from its distance from the sun, it
shines but with a pale light, it cannot often be distinguished with the naked eye. Its diameter
is about 4-1/2 times that of the earth, and completes its revolution in something less than
83-1/2 years. The want of light in this planet, on account of its great distance from the sun,
is supplied by six moons, which revolve round their primary in different periods. There is
a remarkable peculiarity attached to their orbits, which are nearly perpendicular to the plane
of the ecliptic, and they revolve in them in a direction contrary to the order of the signs.

Were Saturn thus situated, what would the inhabitants of Herschel feel, whose distance is still
further?--pursuing this train of reasoning, the heat in the planet Mercury would be seven times
greater than on our globe, and were the earth in the same position, all the water on its surface
would boil, and soon be turned into vapour, but as the degree of sensible heat in any planet
does not depend altogether on its nearness to the sun, the temperature of these planets may
be as mild as that of the most genial climate of our globe.

The theory of the sun being a body of fire having been long since exploded, and heat being
found to be generated by the union of the sun's rays with the atmosphere of the earth, so the
caloric contained in the atmosphere on the surfaces of the planets may be distributed in different
quantities, according to the situation they occupy with regard to the sun, and which is put
into action by the influence of the solar rays, so as to produce that degree of sensible heat
requisite for each respective planet. We have only to suppose that a small quantity of caloric
exists in Mercury, and a greater quantity in Herschel, which is fifty times farther from the
sun than the other, and there is no reason to believe that those planets nearest the sun suffer
under the action of excessive heat, or that the more distant are exposed to the rigours of
insufferable cold, which, in either case, might render them unfit for the abodes of intellectual
beings. PASCHE.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SKETCH BOOK

NO. XLI.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE AUTHOR AND HIS COAT.

(For the Mirror.)

My master, at first sight of me, expressed great admiration. He had given his architect of
garments orders to make him a blue coat in his best style; in consequence of which I was ushered
into the world. The gentleman who introduced me into company was at the time in very high spirits,
being engaged in a new literary undertaking, of the success of which he indulged very sanguine
hopes. On this occasion we, that is, to use similar language to Cardinal Wolsey, in a well-known
instance, I and my master paid a great number of visits to his particular friends, and others
whom he thought likely to encourage and promote his project The reception we generally met
with was highly satisfactory; smiles and promises of support were bestowed in abundance upon
us. I use the plural number, with justice, as it will appear in the sequel, although my master
scarcely ever dreamt that I had anything to do with it. As I had, however, the special privilege
of being behind his back, I had the advantage which that situation peculiarly confers, of arriving
at a knowledge of the truth. He never dreamt that the expressions, "How well you are looking,"--"I
am glad to see you," &c. so common in his ears, would scarcely ever have been used had it not
been for my influence. To be sure I have overheard him say, as we have been walking along,
"There goes an old acquaintance of mine; but, bless me, how altered he is! he looks poor and
meanly dressed, but I'm determined I'll speak to him, for fear he should think me so shabby
as to shy him." Thus giving an instance in himself, certainly, of respect for the man and not
the coat. My short history goes rather to prove that the reverse is almost every day's experience.
Matters went on pretty well with us until my master was seized with a severe fit of illness,
in consequence of which his literary scheme was completely defeated, and his condition in life
materially injured; of course, the glad tones of encouragement which I had been accustomed
to hear were changed into expressions of condolence, and sometimes assurances of unabated friendship;
but then it must be remembered that I, the handsomest blue coat, was still in good condition,
and it will perhaps appear, that if I were not my master's warmest friend, I was, at all events,
the only one that stuck to him to the last. Eternal respect to both of us continued much the
same for some time longer, but by degrees we both, at the same time, observed, that an alteration
began to take place. My master attributed this to his altered fortunes, and I placed it to
the score of my decayed appearance--the threadbare cloth and tarnished button came in, I was
sure, for their full share of neglect, and he at last fell into the same opinion. To describe
all the variety of treatment that we experienced would be a tedious and unpleasant task,--but
I was the more convinced that I had at least as much to do with it as my master, from observing
that all the gradations in manner, from coolness to shyness, and from shyness to neglect, kept
pace, remarkably, with the changes in my appearance. My master was, at length, the only individual
who paid any respect or attention to me, after most of his old acquaintances had ceased to
notice him. I have heard him exclaim, "Oh, that mankind would treat me with as much constancy
as my old true blue! Thou hast faithfully served me throughout the vicissitudes of fortune,
and art faithful still, now both of us are left to wither in adversity."

I could make a long story of it, were I to detail all my adventures; they may, however, be
easily imagined from what has been stated, and from which it is evident, that in too many instances,
the world pays more respect to the coat, than to the man, and therefore that a man would often
derive more consequence and benefit if he had the advantage of having for his patron--a tailor
instead of a man of rank. J. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE NOVELIST.

NO. CIV.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE COTTER'S DAUGHTER.

It was a cold stormy night in December, and the green logs as they blazed and crackled on the
Cotter's hearth, were rendered more delightful, more truly comfortable, by the contrast with
the icy showers of snow and sleet which swept against the frail casement, making all without
cheerless and miserable.

The Cotter was a handsome, intelligent old man, and afforded me much information upon glebes,
and flocks, and rural economy; while his spouse, a venerable matron, was humming to herself
some long since forgotten ballad; and industriously twisting and twirling about her long knitting
needles, that promised soon to produce a pair of formidable winter hose. Their son, a stout,
healthy young peasant of three-and-twenty, was sitting in the spacious chimney corner, sharing
his frugal supper of bread and cheese with a large, shaggy sheep dog, who sat on his haunches
wistfully watching every mouthful, and snap, snap, snapping, and dextrously catching every
morsel that was cast to him.

We were all suddenly startled, however, by his loud bark; when, jumping up, he rushed, or rather
flew towards the door.

"Whew! whew!" whistled the youth--"Whoy--what the dickens ails thee, Rover?" said he, rising
and following him to the door to learn the cause of his alarm. "What! be they gone again, ey?"
for the dog was silent. "What do thee sniffle at, boy? On'y look at 'un feyther; how the beast
whines and waggles his stump o' tail!--It's some 'un he knows for sartain. I'd lay a wager
it wur Bill Miles com'd about the harrow, feyther."

"Did thee hear any knock, lad?" said the father.

"Noa!" replied the youth; "but mayhap Bill peep'd thro' the hoal in the shutter, and is a bit
dash'd like at seeing a gentleman here. Bill! is't thee, Master Miles?" continued he, bawling.
"Lord! the wind whistles so a' can't hear me. Shall I unlatch the door, feyther?"

"Ay, lad, do, an thou wilt," replied the old man; "Rover's wiser nor we be--a dog 'll scent
a friend, when a man would'nt know un."

Rover still continued his low importunate whine, and began to scratch against the door. The
lad threw it open--the dog brushed past him in an instant, and his quick, short, continuous
yelping, expressed his immoderate joy and recognition.

"Hollo! where be'st thee, Bill?" said the young peasant, stepping over the threshold. "Come,
none of thee tricks upon travellers, Master Bill; I zee thee beside the rick yon!" and quitting
the door for half a minute, he again hastily entered the cot. The rich colour of robust health
had fled from his cheeks--his lips quivered--and he looked like one bereft of his senses, or
under the influence of some frightful apparition.

The dame rose up--her work fell from trembling hands--

"What's the matter?" said she.

"What's frighted thee, lad?" asked the old man, rising.

"Oh! feyther!--oh! mother!"--exclaimed he, drawing them hastily on one side and whispering
something in a low, and almost inaudible voice.

The old woman raised her hands in supplication and tottered to her chair while the Cotter,
bursting out into a paroxysm of violent rage, clutched his son's arm, and exclaimed in a loud
voice:

