The food situation was very serious. For many years, Russia had been the granary of Europe
but during the winter of 1916-17 suffered from shortage of food. Passengers told how in southern
Russia grain and flour were rotting and yet in northern Russia the inhabitants were starving
owing to the breakdown of the transportation system. It was pointed out that while the railway
officials refused to give cars for bringing in the necessities of life, yet articles of luxury,
expensive fruits, and such things did come into the city--a state of affairs which meant, of
course, that some one was grafting. Sugar could be obtained only by cards and in very limited
quantities; flour could not be bought at all, and black, sour bread could often be had only
by standing in long lines and for hours at a time. There were no shoes and people asked what
became of the hides of the thousands of animals that were annually slaughtered and shot. It
was said that these, like other things, were sold to Germany.

As usual the poorer classes suffered the most. The well-to-do sent their servants who after
a time returned with bread; at the worst it was only an inconvenience, but the workman had
no servants to run his errands. In the morning, the laborer left his home for his work with
little or no breakfast, at noon there was no luncheon for him because his wife was standing
in the bread or sugar line, and when he returned in the evening there may have been bread enough
but little else. The wife was tired and discouraged, the children crying and hungry, and life
became a burden.

We may say that the conditions in Russia were no worse than in France or Germany. This is doubtless
true, but there is this difference: the people of France and Germany had confidence in their
leaders and realized that they were doing the best that they could, while the Russians knew
they could put no trust in their Government, that the suffering was unnecessary and was due
to corruption, favoritism, and incompetency. The Russians have as much patriotism and patience
as any other people, but when they saw themselves abused and imposed upon they had a right
to complain.

In addition to the criticism of the Government the other favorite topic of conversation was
the revolution that would come after the war. This was discussed as openly as the problems
of war; the two were bound up together, first a successful ending of the war, and then a change
in government.

This public denunciation and open discussion of a coup d'état came as a shock to me, for I
remembered quite vividly how the same people cheered the Emperor when he declared war. Three
years ago no one would have dared to talk like that. To be sure enough was said then of the
desirability of a more liberal government, but it was a far-off question, one that the next
generation might have to deal with. Now the talk was of an overturn immediately after the war.

The court circle was not ignorant of what was being said for the spies kept them fully informed.
In conversation with a journalist two months before the outbreak of the revolution, the Minister
of the Interior, Protopopov, a protégé of Rasputin, said that he was aware of the revolutionary
propaganda and that he was ready to face any attempt that might be made to overthrow the government.

"I will not stop at anything," he remarked,... "the first thing that I shall do is to send
them [revolutionaries] from the capital by the car loads. But I will strangle the revolution
no matter what the cost may be." [FN: Novoe Vremia, March 19-April 1, 1917.] He had no doubt
that he could handle the situation and he inspired those about him with the same confidence,
particularly the Emperor whom he assured that the discontent was confined chiefly to the intelligentsia
and to a small number of the gentry, and that the common people and the army were devoted to
the autocracy.

To the question that arises why the revolution, which was expected after the war, came off
before its conclusion, the answer is that the present revolution was not planned nor desired
by any one of importance; it came as a surprise to all. It just happened. If some one must
have the credit or blame, it is Protopopov who was at the time suspected of being queer mentally
and who has since lost his reason entirely. He was so sure of himself and of his ability to
put down the uprising and thereby show himself a real statesman that he concluded not to wait
for the revolution to come in the ordinary course of events, but to hurry it a bit. Although
there is no conclusive proof for this statement, there is plenty of convincing circumstantial
evidence. We know that it was proposed to have the workmen of Petrograd strike on February
27, the day of the opening of the Duma, as a protest against the government; we know also that
to meet this situation, the Minister of the Interior had placed machine guns in the garrets,
in steeples, on housetops, and other such places where they could command the important streets
and shoot down the mob. The rising did not take place because Miliukov, the great liberal leader,
learned that the Government was behind this move and that preparations had been made to slaughter
the unsuspecting workmen. He, therefore, addressed them in an open letter calling on them not
to make any demonstration, and they did not. For the time being the strike was off, but the
air was full of discontent and restlessness, and it was difficult to say when trouble would
break out again. With this in view, a number of representatives of various organizations met
to discuss the situation and to determine what attitude they should take and what counsel they
should give to the labor leaders. Miliukov and a few others urged that all uprisings should
be discouraged because they would interfere with the war, would cost the lives of many innocent
persons, and would accomplish nothing. There were, however, others, especially Anisimov, who
argued strongly in favor of a strike, saying that this was the opportune time to overthrow
the present regime and to establish a democratic government.[FN: I have this story from Miliukov.]
When the revolution came off and the papers of the secret police were seized, it was discovered
that Anisimov, who urged the revolt, was the paid agent of the Government and was doubtless
doing its bidding. This shows that the Government instigated and abetted the uprising. But
this is not all the evidence. Between February 27 and the outbreak of the revolution men impersonating
Miliukov went to the factories, calling on the workmen to rise against the Government.[FN:
I have this story from Miliukov.] There is still another bit of evidence. In order to give
the laboring classes cause for revolt, the food supply in the factory districts was reduced
and many people suffered from hunger and in their desperation came out into the streets. During
the revolutionary week little, if any, food came in, but immediately after it the soldiers
found 250,000 "puds" of flour, [FN: Russkaia Svoboda, 1917. No. 3, p. 24.] enough to last Petrograd
ten days, meat, besides other food hidden in police stations and elsewhere out of reach of
the public. It has been said that the Government instigated the uprising in order to bring
about a separate peace with Germany. No direct proof has as yet been produced to substantiate
this charge, and the only testimony that I have bearing on this case is the statement made
by commander-in-chief Alexeiev in a confidential interview with a journalist already quoted.
[FN: There is not the least bit of evidence to show that the Emperor himself was mixed up in
these intrigues. Among the papers of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs there is but one document
that throws any light on the question of a separate peace during the time of the monarchy.
It is a letter from the minister of the German Court to the minister of the Russian Court insinuating
a separate peace. This letter was shown, as was intended, to the Tsar, who read it, put it
aside, and did not answer it. This, however, does not mean that Sturmer, Protopopov and the
clique of the Empress were not planning to bring about a situation which would compel a separate
peace.]

These four points--the encouragement of a revolt by the secret agents, the impersonation of
Miliukov, the concealment of food in the factory districts, the desire of a separate peace
with Germany--make out a fairly good case to show that the Government was behind the disturbance.
Aside from the reason already given for the desire of a separate peace, the other reason for
the action of the ministry was this: It feared that the revolutionary movement, if permitted
to take its natural course, would develop such strength that it could not be put down when
it broke out, and, therefore, the Minister of the Interior decided to take it in hand and at
the right moment crush it with such force that it would be a long time before it could raise
its head again. Before it was over he hoped to drag in prominent members of the Duma (or the
Duma itself) and other revolutionary leaders, and make an end of them. This plan need not astonish
us, for this method, in one form or another, had been made use of by the autocracy time and
again. Protopopov overreached himself, his scheme miscarried, the soldiers about the capital
went back on him, and the little comedy that he had staged in which he was to play the leading
part became a tragedy and the shot which was intended for the revolution hit his royal master
and brought autocracy to the ground. In view of the fact that Protopopov has since become insane,
one wonders whether the man was mentally well balanced at the time that he was in office. But
the Tsar has only himself to blame for his plight; he was warned against this nominee of Rasputin,
but he would not take advice.

Early in the week of March 5-12, 1917, the trouble began in the factory districts. There were
bread riots, car stoning, window smashing, and other such acts, which are more or less common
and no one paid much attention to them. On Thursday, the disturbances spread to other parts
of the city and crowds began to gather on the Nevski, but the throng was orderly and the police
seemed to have little difficulty in keeping it on the move. Friday the crowd was more bold:
it marched up and down the streets, calling for bread, singing revolutionary songs, and occasionally
waving a red flag and quickly snatching it back again. This, too, did not make much impression
for it is well known that in Russia strikes and disturbances have in view political as well
as economic betterment. Late Friday afternoon, while I was walking on the Nevski, a company
of mounted police and a large number of Cossacks dashed by on the way to disperse a procession
that was coming towards me. When I came up to the Fontanka Bridge I noticed the crowd was gathered
about the Cossacks; it patted the horses and cheered their riders, while the police were nowhere
in sight. I listened to what was being said and heard that the police tried to use their whips
and swords on the people and this angered the Cossacks so much that they attacked the police,
killed the captain, and drove them all away. It was no secret that there was bad blood between
the soldiers and the police; the former complained that while they were suffering and fighting
at the front, the latter were having an easy time, enriching themselves by graft, and oppressing
the soldiers' families. The soldiers and the strikers started out with one idea--hatred of
the police. When the police had been dispersed, the Cossacks and soldiers begged the people
to move on, but they, especially the young women students who were numerous, went up to them
and pleaded with them to espouse their cause. "Comrades," they would say, "come over on our
side, our cause is your cause." The rough, ignorant warriors were disturbed; they did not like
their jobs, and in a kindly way begged the men and women to go home, but, as it did no good,
for they massed again, the Cossacks rode in a body into their midst and kept turning and turning
until the crowd was forced from the street onto the sidewalk. In the meantime, another company
of Cossacks formed a line across the street, from wall to wall, and swept everybody before
it into stores, courtyards, and other openings. Even this did not do much good, for as soon
as the horsemen passed, the mob fell in behind and cheered the Cossacks. There was no roughness,
but at the same time it was easy to see that the crowd did not yet know to what extent the
army could be trusted.

By Saturday the inhabitants of the city began to feel the effect of the disorder; cars were
not running, telephones were barely working, factories and shops were closed, banks and stores
were locked, there was little to eat, for the only provision on hand was water; every one who
could filled the tubs for fear the water mains would be blown up. The crowd on the streets
was larger than ever, more red flags were in evidence, but all this failed to give the impression
of a revolution. Such demonstrations had been seen before; revolutionary talk was cheap and
was not taken seriously. As on the day before, the soldiers and Cossacks tried by gentle means
to disperse the crowd, but failed, for the men and women in the crowd complained that they
were hungry and pleaded with the military for the sake of their own families to stand by the
people. It was easy to see that these guardians of the peace were in trouble, they knew that
every word said was true, and what was more to the purpose, members of their own families were
in the crowd. An officer who was sent with his company to shoot on the people told how that
same morning his own sister took part in the demonstration and called for bread for her children.
This was no exceptional case. But as soldiers they must do their duty and keep order. Realizing
that the stratagems of the day before failed in their purpose, the Cossacks tried other tactics
on this day. They fell behind the procession, and discharged their pistols in the air and dashed
at full speed into the mob. Woe unto him who did not get out of the way. But they all did;
in a second there was not a person on the street. It is still a wonder how it was all done
so quickly. As soon as the horsemen passed, the crowd dropped behind them and raising their
hats cheered them. "Comrades," they said, "come over to us, you know that the government is
bad, you know how the soldiers have been killed through its incompetency, you know that our
wives and children are hungry," and more such pleas. The Cossacks and the other soldiers who
tried to keep order were caught, they begged the crowd to break up and go home, they pointed
out that they had to do their duty and that somebody might get hurt. It was reported that in
some places the soldiers did fire and kill several persons. During Saturday, men were sent,
it is not clear by whom, to the different factories to persuade the workers to join in a great
demonstration on Sunday. The military commander of the city telegraphed to the Emperor for
orders and the latter sent word to shoot, if necessary, and to put down the uprising at any
cost, and that accounts for the posters that were put up on Sunday morning warning the inhabitants
not to gather in the streets because the soldiers would shoot to kill. This had happened before
and was no joke, and many people would not leave their homes that day. Those who did had to
walk; there was no other way of getting about. Few people, on the whole, were on the street
that morning aside from the soldiers and Cossacks who were guarding the bridges and keeping
an eye out for disturbances. After luncheon I started to make a call and as I passed the barracks
of the Volynski regiment, situated near where I lived, I saw a company of soldiers lined up,
heard the command to load, to shoulder arms, to march, and off they went to the Nevski. I followed
them for a distance and then turned aside and went my way. In returning I had to cross the
Nevski and found that all avenues thither were guarded and that no one was allowed to go in
that direction. I managed, however, by showing my American passport, to get through the line
and reach the street. Excited people were moving up and down and from them I learned that about
three o'clock a number of people forced their way to the Nevski and were fired upon by the
soldiers and the machine guns that were concealed. Among the killed of the day was a captain
of police who was knocked down by a Cossack.

Sunday night was full of excitement and fear and there were not many who slept soundly. Firing
was heard at different times but what it portended, none of us could tell. It became evident
that the situation was becoming serious, yet we all felt that the Government could handle it.
When I went out on the street Monday morning, the first thing I saw was the placard of the
military commander announcing that unless the workmen went to the shops, they would be sent
to the front the following day. Groups of people were talking excitedly and from them I learned
that the Volynski regiment had revolted and had killed its officers, because the day before
they had commanded the soldiers to shoot on the people. It seems that the soldiers returned
home much excited over their deed and full of remorse. In the course of the night some of the
revolutionary soldiers from the city upbraided them and they were greatly incensed with their
officers and the Government. They, as well as other regiments, were particularly worked up
over the report that hirelings of the secret police dressed in soldiers' uniforms went about
firing on the crowd and that the new recruits, under penalty of death, were commanded to shoot
on the people in the streets. When in the morning the officers congratulated the men on their
deed of yesterday, they jumped on them and murdered them. I heard that other regiments had
also revolted; but there were so many rumors afloat that it was not easy to know what to believe.
About four in the afternoon, I started for home and found the Nevski full of frightened and
nervous people, and hardly any soldiers. No one seemed to know what to expect. Sounds of shooting
were heard and they were explained as the battle between the regiments that had revolted and
those that had remained loyal. In the distance columns of smoke were seen and report had it
that palaces were burning. Again it was difficult to know the truth. As I proceeded on my way,
I was joined by the little minister of the British American Church, where I had attended services
the day before, where he had prayed fervently for the Tsar and his family and asked God to
put down the anarchists, and other lawless men. We were discussing the situation, not knowing
exactly what to make of it. Perhaps the word revolution passed our lips but neither of us nor
those about us took it seriously. Near the Liteiny a gate opened and about two dozen armed
soldiers led by a petty officer stepped out and marched towards the center of the street. Immediately
the crowd, excited and scared, scattered and ran for their lives but the soldiers motioned
for them to stop and told them that they would not shoot. We left them, and proceeded on our
way, trying as before to interpret what we saw. While in the midst of our discussion we were
struck by a new and unfamiliar sound--tra-ta-ta, tra-ta-ta, and we instinctively knew that
a machine gun was firing. In a flash the streets were cleared and my minister and I found ourselves
sticking like posters against the wall. It was my first "baptism of fire" and I had enough
presence of mind to observe its effect upon myself and others. Physically there was no effect
for no one seemed hit. I tried to locate the gun and the man behind it, but did not succeed.
When the firing ceased, I went on my way. As I neared the Nicholas station, there came rushing
forth from around the corner a crowd of hoodlums and soldiers, with drawn swords, which they
had taken from the officers, and such other weapons as they could pick up, shouting, "Down
with the Government!" Then it dawned upon me that the revolution was on in earnest, that the
anarchists of yesterday's prayer had become the heroes of a great cause. What struck me most
of all was the kind of men and women who made this world event. I watched them during the week,
and they seemed to be in great part boys and girls, hoodlums, students, poorly dressed men
and women, without organization, plans, or leaders. It is difficult to analyze the various
motives that brought them out into the street. Not one of the so-called revolutionists was
seen, heard, shot, or wounded. When it was all over they appeared on the scene, rushing from
Switzerland, the United States, France, and other parts of the world, to make speeches and
to divide the spoils. It was a revolution without revolutionists, unless you call the soldiers
that, but they were not consciously making a revolution, and when it was done, they were thoroughly
surprised and frightened. There are a number of reasons why the Government collapsed so easily.
It was not really overthrown but it toppled over like a rotten tree, and until it fell, the
people did not realize how decayed it actually was. Its misconduct of the war, scandals like
that of Rasputin, ministers such as Protopopov discredited and disgraced the dynasty and when
the end came, it had few friends who shed tears.

Another important factor in helping the revolution was the large number of students and liberals
who served in the army. To fill the ranks and to provide educated men for officers, it was
necessary to call on university students, experts in various fields of engineering, all of
whom, more or less, desired a liberal government. These men worked among the soldiers and officers
with a view to creating a feeling of distrust in the Emperor, and the Government, and its incompetence
and corruption gave plenty of material for the propagandists. Loyalty to the dynasty was undermined
and as soon as one prop was removed, as soon as one company of soldiers went over, the others
followed and the whole edifice came tumbling down.

Still another factor was the large number of new recruits that were stationed in the capital;
they were as yet not well disciplined, obedience had not yet become a second nature to them.
Many of them had come from the factories, some of them were personally acquainted with the
men and women who were in the demonstrations and therefore would not fire on them. Had there
been at the time in the city three or four old and well-disciplined regiments, or had the Cossacks
who were on hand not interfered with the police, the uprising would have been crushed quickly
and effectively as similar affairs had been before.

