'Fletcher's account of poor Byron is extremely interesting.  I had always a strong attachment
to that unfortunate though most richly-gifted man, because I thought I saw that his virtues
(and he had many) were his own; and his eccentricities the result of an irritable temperament,
which sometimes approached nearly to mental disease.  Those who are gifted with strong nerves,
a regular temper, and habitual self-command, are not, perhaps, aware how much of what they
may think virtue they owe to constitution; and such are but too severe judges of men like Byron,
whose mind, like a day of alternate storm and sunshine, is all dark shades and stray gleams
of light, instead of the twilight gray which illuminates happier though less distinguished
mortals.  I always thought, that, when a moral proposition was placed plainly before Lord Byron,
his mind yielded a pleased and willing assent to it; but, if there was any side view given
in the way of raillery or otherwise, he was willing enough to evade conviction . . . .  It
augurs ill for the cause of Greece that this master-spirit should have been withdrawn from
their assistance just as he was obtaining a complete ascendancy over their counsels.  I have
seen several letters from the Ionian Islands, all of which unite in speaking in the highest
praise of the wisdom and temperance of his counsels, and the ascendancy he was obtaining over
the turbulent and ferocious chiefs of the insurgents.  I have some verses written by him on
his last birthday: they breathe a spirit of affection towards his wife, and a desire of dying
in battle, which seems like an anticipation of his approaching fate.'

                   I remain, sir, your obedient servant,

                                           LINDSAY.

DUNECHT, Sept. 3.

DR. FORBES WINSLOW'S LETTER TO THE LONDON 'TIMES.'

TO THE EDITOR.

SIR,--Your paper of the 4th of September, containing an able and deeply interesting 'Vindication
of Lord Byron,' has followed me to this place. With the general details of the 'True Story'
(as it is termed) of Lady Byron's separation from her husband, as recorded in 'Macmillan's
Magazine,' I have no desire or intention to grapple.  It is only with the hypothesis of insanity,
as suggested by the clever writer of the 'Vindication' to account for Lady Byron's sad revelations
to Mrs. Beecher Stowe, with which I propose to deal.  I do not believe that the mooted theory
of mental aberration can, in this case, be for a moment maintained.  If Lady Byron's statement
of facts to Mrs. B. Stowe is to be viewed as the creation of a distempered fancy, a delusion
or hallucination of an insane mind, what part of the narrative are we to draw the boundary-line
between fact and delusion, sanity and insanity? Where are we to fix the point d'appui of the
lunacy?  Again: is the alleged 'hallucination' to be considered as strictly confined to the
idea that Lord Byron had committed the frightful sin of incest? or is the whole of the 'True
Story' of her married life, as reproduced with such terrible minuteness by Mrs. Beecher Stowe,
to be viewed as the delusion of a disordered fancy?  If Lady Byron was the subject of an 'hallucination'
with regard to her husband, I think it not unreasonable to conclude that the mental alienation
existed on the day of her marriage.  If this proposition be accepted, the natural inference
will be, that the details of the conversation which Lady Byron represents to have occurred
between herself and Lord Byron as soon as they entered the carriage never took place.  Lord
Byron is said to have remarked to Lady Byron, 'You might have prevented this (or words to this
effect): you will now find that you have married a devil.  Is this alleged conversation to
be viewed as fact, or fiction? evidence of sanity, or insanity?  Is the revelation which Lord
Byron is said to have made to his wife of his 'incestuous passion' another delusion, having
no foundation except in his wife's disordered imagination?  Did this conversation ever take
place?  It will be difficult to separate one part of the 'True Story' from another, and maintain
that this portion indicates insanity, and that portion represents sanity.  If we accept the
hypothesis of hallucination, we are bound to view the whole of Lady Byron's conversations with
Mrs. B. Stowe, and the written statement laid before her, as the wild and incoherent representations
of a lunatic.  On the day when Lady Byron parted from her husband, did she enter his private
room, and find him with the 'object of his guilty passion?' and did he say, as they parted,
'When shall we three meet again?'  Is this to be considered as an actual occurrence, or as
another form of hallucination?  It is quite inconsistent with the theory of Lady Byron's insanity
to imagine that her delusion was restricted to the idea of his having committed 'incest.' 
In common fairness, we are bound to view the aggregate mental phenomena which she exhibited
from the day of the marriage to their final separation and her death.  If it should be established,
by the statements of those who are the depositors of the secret (and they are now bound, in
vindication of Lord Byron's memory, to deny, if they have the power of doing so, this most
frightful accusation), that the idea of incest did unhappily cross Lady Byron's mind prior
to her finally leaving him, it no doubt arose from a most inaccurate knowledge of facts and
perfectly unjustifiable data, and was not, in the right psychological acceptation of the phrase,
an insane hallucination.

                    Sir, I remain your obedient servant,

                               FORBES WINSLOW, M.D.

ZARINGERHOF, FREIBURG-EN-BREISGAU, Sept. 8, 1869.

                                 -----

EXTRACT FROM LORD BYRON'S EXPUNGED LETTER.

TO MR. MURRAY.

                              'BOLOGNA, June 7, 1819.

. . .

'I have never seen anything of Ada, the little Electra of my Mycenae . . . .  But there will
come a day of reckoning, even if I should not live to see it.  I have at least seen ---- shivered,
who was one of my assassins. When that man was doing his worst to uproot my whole family,--tree,
branch, and blossoms; when, after taking my retainer, he went over to them; when he was bringing
desolation on my hearth, and destruction on my household gods,--did he think that, in less
than three years, a natural event, a severe domestic, but an expected and common calamity,
would lay his carcass in a cross-road, or stamp his name in a verdict of lunacy? Did he (who
in his sexagenary . . .) reflect or consider what my feelings must have been when wife and
child and sister, and name and fame and country, were to be my sacrifice on his legal altar?--and
this at a moment when my health was declining, my fortune embarrassed, and my mind had been
shaken by many kinds of disappointment? while I was yet young, and might have reformed what
might be wrong in my conduct, and retrieved what was perplexing in my affairs?  But he is in
his grave, and--What a long letter I have scribbled!' . . .

* * * * *

In order that the reader may measure the change of moral tone with regard to Lord Byron, wrought
by the constant efforts of himself and his party, we give the two following extracts from 'Blackwood:'

The first is 'Blackwood' in 1819, just after the publication of 'Don Juan:' the second is 'Blackwood'
in 1825.

'In the composition of this work, there is, unquestionably, a more thorough and intense infusion
of genius and vice, power and profligacy, than in any poem which had ever before been written
in the English, or, indeed, in any other modern language.  Had the wickedness been less inextricably
mingled with the beauty and the grace and the strength of a most inimitable and incomprehensible
Muse, our task would have been easy. 'Don Juan' is by far the most admirable specimen of the
mixture of ease, strength, gaiety, and seriousness, extant in the whole body of English poetry:
the author has devoted his powers to the worst of purposes and passions; and it increases his
guilt and our sorrow that he has devoted them entire.

'The moral strain of the whole poem is pitched in the lowest key.  Love, honour, patriotism,
religion, are mentioned only to be scoffed at, as if their sole resting-place were, or ought
to be, in the bosoms of fools.  To confess to his Maker, and weep over in secret agonies the
wildest and most fantastic transgressions of heart and mind, is the part of a conscious sinner,
in whom sin has not become the sole principle of life and action; but to lay bare to the eye
of man and of woman all the hidden convulsions of a wicked spirit, and to do all this without
one symptom of contrition, remorse, or hesitation, with a calm, careless ferociousness of contented
and satisfied depravity,--this was an insult which no man of genius had ever before dared to
put upon his Creator or his species.  Impiously railing against his God, madly and meanly disloyal
to his sovereign and his country, and brutally outraging all the best feelings of female honour,
affection, and confidence, how small a part of chivalry is that which remains to the descendant
of the Byrons!--a gloomy visor and a deadly weapon!

'Those who are acquainted (and who is not?) with the main incidents in the private life of
Lord Byron, and who have not seen this production, will scarcely believe that malignity should
have carried him so far as to make him commence a filthy and impious poem with an elaborate
satire on the character and manners of his wife, from whom, even by his own confession, he
has been separated only in consequence of his own cruel and heartless misconduct.  It would
not be an easy matter to persuade any man who has any knowledge of the nature of woman, that
a female such as Lord Byron has himself described his wife to be would rashly or hastily or
lightly separate herself from the love with which she had once been inspired for such a man
as he is or was.  Had he not heaped insult upon insult, and scorn upon scorn, had he not forced
the iron of his contempt into her very soul, there is no woman of delicacy and virtue, as he
admitted Lady Byron to be, who would not have hoped all things, and suffered all things, from
one, her love of whom must have been inwoven with so many exalting elements of delicious pride,
and more delicious humility.  To offend the love of such a woman was wrong, but it might be
forgiven; to desert her was unmanly, but he might have returned, and wiped for ever from her
eyes the tears of her desertion: but to injure and to desert, and then to turn back and wound
her widowed privacy with unhallowed strains of cold-blooded mockery, was brutally, fiendishly,
inexpiably mean.  For impurities there might be some possibility of pardon, were they supposed
to spring only from the reckless buoyancy of young blood and fiery passions; for impiety there
might at least be pity, were it visible that the misery of the impious soul equalled its darkness:
but for offences such as this, which cannot proceed either from the madness of sudden impulse
or the bewildered agonies of doubt, but which speak the wilful and determined spite of an unrepenting,
unsoftened, smiling, sarcastic, joyous sinner, there can be neither pity nor pardon.  Our knowledge
that it is committed by one of the most powerful intellects our island ever has produced lends
intensity a thousand-fold to the bitterness of our indignation.  Every high thought that was
ever kindled in our breasts by the Muse of Byron, every pure and lofty feeling that ever responded
from within us to the sweep of his majestic inspirations, every remembered moment of admiration
and enthusiasm, is up in arms against him.  We look back with a mixture of wrath and scorn
to the delight with which we suffered ourselves to be filled by one, who, all the while he
was furnishing us with delight, must, we cannot doubt it, have been mocking us with a cruel
mockery; less cruel only, because less peculiar, than that with which he has now turned him
from the lurking-place of his selfish and polluted exile to pour the pitiful chalice of his
contumely on the surrendered devotion of a virgin bosom, and the holy hopes of the mother of
his child.  It is indeed a sad and a humiliating thing to know, that in the same year, there
proceeded from the same pen two productions in all things so different as the fourth canto
of "Childe Harold" and his loathsome "Don Juan."

'We have mentioned one, and, all will admit, the worst instance of the private malignity which
has been embodied in so many passages of "Don Juan;" and we are quite sure the lofty-minded
and virtuous men whom Lord Byron has debased himself by insulting will close the volume which
contains their own injuries, with no feelings save those of pity for him that has inflicted
them, and for her who partakes so largely in the same injuries.'--August, 1819.

* * * * *

'BLACKWOOD,'--iterum.

'We shall, like all others who say anything about Lord Byron, begin, sans apologie, with his
personal character.  This is the great object of attack, the constant theme of open vituperation
to one set, and the established mark for all the petty but deadly artillery of sneers, shrugs,
groans, to another.  Two widely different matters, however, are generally, we might say universally,
mixed up here,--the personal character of the man, as proved by his course of life; and his
personal character, as revealed in or guessed from his books.  Nothing can be more unfair than
the style in which this mixture is made use of.  Is there a noble sentiment, a lofty thought,
a sublime conception, in the book?  "Ah, yes!" is the answer.  "But what of that?  It is only
the roue Byron that speaks!"  Is a kind, a generous action of the man mentioned?  "Yes, yes!"
comments the sage; "but only remember the atrocities of 'Don Juan:' depend on it, this, if
it be true, must have been a mere freak of caprice, or perhaps a bit of vile hypocrisy."  Salvation
is thus shut out at either entrance: the poet damns the man, and the man the poet.

'Nobody will suspect us of being so absurd as to suppose that it is possible for people to
draw no inferences as to the character of an author from his book, or to shut entirely out
of view, in judging of a book, that which they may happen to know about the man who writes
it.  The cant of the day supposes such things to be practicable; but they are not. But what
we complain of and scorn is the extent to which they are carried in the case of this particular
individual, as compared with others; the impudence with which things are at once assumed to
be facts in regard to his private history; and the absolute unfairness of never arguing from
his writings to him, but for evil.

'Take the man, in the first place, as unconnected, in so far as we can thus consider him, with
his works; and ask, What, after all, are the bad things we know of him?  Was he dishonest or
dishonourable? had he ever done anything to forfeit, or even endanger, his rank as a gentleman?
Most assuredly, no such accusations have ever been maintained against Lord Byron the private
nobleman, although something of the sort may have been insinuated against the author.  "But
he was such a profligate in his morals, that his name cannot be mentioned with anything like
tolerance." Was he so, indeed?  We should like extremely to have the catechising of the individual
man who says so.  That he indulged in sensual vices, to some extent, is certain, and to be
regretted and condemned.  But was he worse, as to such matters, than the enormous majority
of those who join in the cry of horror upon this occasion?  We most assuredly believe exactly
the reverse; and we rest our belief upon very plain and intelligible grounds.  First, we hold
it impossible that the majority of mankind, or that anything beyond a very small minority,
are or can be entitled to talk of sensual profligacy as having formed a part of the life and
character of the man, who, dying at six and thirty, bequeathed a collection of works such as
Byron's to the world.  Secondly, we hold it impossible, that laying the extent of his intellectual
labours out of the question, and looking only to the nature of the intellect which generated,
and delighted in generating, such beautiful and noble conceptions as are to be found in almost
all Lord Byron's works,--we hold it impossible that very many men can be at once capable of
comprehending these conceptions, and entitled to consider sensual profligacy as having formed
the principal, or even a principal, trait in Lord Byron's character.  Thirdly, and lastly,
we have never been able to hear any one fact established which could prove Lord Byron to deserve
anything like the degree or even kind of odium which has, in regard to matters of this class,
been heaped upon his name.  We have no story of base unmanly seduction, or false and villainous
intrigue, against him,--none whatever. It seems to us quite clear, that, if he had been at
all what is called in society an unprincipled sensualist, there must have been many such stories,
authentic and authenticated.  But there are none such,--absolutely none.  His name has been
coupled with the names of three, four, or more women of some rank: but what kind of women?
Every one of them, in the first place, about as old as himself in years, and therefore a great
deal older in character; every one of them utterly battered in reputation long before he came
into contact with them,--licentious, unprincipled, characterless women.  What father has ever
reproached him with the ruin of his daughter?  What husband has denounced him as the destroyer
of his peace?

'Let us not be mistaken.  We are not defending the offences of which Lord Byron unquestionably
was guilty; neither are we finding fault with those, who, after looking honestly within and
around themselves, condemn those offences, no matter how severely: but we are speaking of society
in general as it now exists; and we say that there is vile hypocrisy in the tone in which Lord
Byron is talked of there.  We say, that, although all offences against purity of life are miserable
things, and condemnable things, the degrees of guilt attached to different offences of this
class are as widely different as are the degrees of guilt between an assault and a murder;
and we confess our belief, that no man of Byron's station or age could have run much risk in
gaining a very bad name in society, had a course of life similar (in so far as we know any
thing of that) to Lord Byron's been the only thing chargeable against him.

'The last poem he wrote was produced upon his birthday, not many weeks before he died.  We
consider it as one of the finest and most touching effusions of his noble genius.  We think
he who reads it, and can ever after bring himself to regard even the worst transgressions that
have been charged against Lord Byron with any feelings but those of humble sorrow and manly
pity, is not deserving of the name of man.  The deep and passionate struggles with the inferior
elements of his nature (and ours) which it records; the lofty thirsting after purity; the heroic
devotion of a soul half weary of life, because unable to believe in its own powers to live
up to what it so intensely felt to be, and so reverentially honoured as, the right; the whole
picture of this mighty spirit, often darkened, but never sunk,--often erring, but never ceasing
to see and to worship the beauty of virtue; the repentance of it; the anguish; the aspiration,
almost stifled in despair,--the whole of this is such a whole, that we are sure no man can
read these solemn verses too often; and we recommend them for repetition, as the best and most
conclusive of all possible answers whenever the name of Byron is insulted by those who permit
themselves to forget nothing, either in his life or in his writings, but the good.'--[1825.]

LETTERS OF LADY BYRON TO H. C. ROBINSON

The following letters of Lady Byron's are reprinted from the Memoirs of H. C. Robinson.  They
are given that the reader may form some judgment of the strength and activity of her mind,
and the elevated class of subjects upon which it habitually dwelt.

LADY BYRON TO H. C. R.

                                       'DEC. 31, 1853.

'DEAR MR. CRABB ROBINSON,--I have an inclination, if I were not afraid of trespassing on your
time (but you can put my letter by for any leisure moment), to enter upon the history of a
character which I think less appreciated than it ought to be.  Men, I observe, do not understand
men in certain points, without a woman's interpretation.  Those points, of course, relate to
feelings.

'Here is a man taken by most of those who come in his way either for Dry- as-Dust, Matter-of-fact,
or for a "vain visionary."  There are, doubtless, some defective or excessive characteristics
which give rise to those impressions.

'My acquaintance was made, oddly enough, with him twenty-seven years ago. A pauper said to
me of him, "He's the poor man's doctor."  Such a recommendation seemed to me a good one: and
I also knew that his organizing head had formed the first district society in England (for
Mrs. Fry told me she could not have effected it without his aid); yet he has always ignored
his own share of it.  I felt in him at once the curious combination of the Christian and the
cynic,--of reverence for man, and contempt of men.  It was then an internal war, but one in
which it was evident to me that the holier cause would be victorious, because there was deep
belief, and, as far as I could learn, a blameless and benevolent life.  He appeared only to
want sunshine.  It was a plant which could not be brought to perfection in darkness.  He had
begun life by the most painful conflict between filial duty and conscience,--a large provision
in the church secured for him by his father; but he could not sign.  There was discredit, as
you know, attached to such scruples.

'He was also, when I first knew him, under other circumstances of a nature to depress him,
and to make him feel that he was unjustly treated. The gradual removal of these called forth
his better nature in thankfulness to God.  Still the old misanthropic modes of expressing himself
obtruded themselves at times.  This passed in '48 between him and Robertson.  Robertson said
to me, "I want to know something about ragged schools."  I replied, "You had better ask Dr.
King: he knows more about them."--"I?" said Dr. King.  "I take care to know nothing of ragged
schools, lest they should make me ragged."  Robertson did not see through it.  Perhaps I had
been taught to understand such suicidal speeches by my cousin, Lord Melbourne.

'The example of Christ, imperfectly as it may be understood by him, has been ever before his
eyes: he woke to the thought of following it, and he went to rest consoled or rebuked by it.
After nearly thirty years of intimacy, I may, without presumption, form that opinion.  There
is something pathetic to me in seeing any one so unknown.  Even the other medical friends of
Robertson, when I knew that Dr. King felt a woman's tenderness, said on one occasion to him,
"But we know that you, Dr. King, are above all feeling."

'If I have made the character more consistent to you by putting in these bits of mosaic, my
pen will not have been ill employed, nor unpleasingly to you.

                                   'Yours truly,

                                       'A. NOEL BYRON.'

* * * * *

LADY BYRON TO H. C. R.

                                'BRIGHTON, NOV. 15,1854.

'The thoughts of all this public and private suffering have taken the life out of my pen when
I tried to write on matters which would otherwise have been most interesting to me: these seemed
the shadows, that the stern reality.  It is good, however, to be drawn out of scenes in which
one is absorbed most unprofitably, and to have one's natural interests revived by such a letter
as I have to thank you for, as well as its predecessor.  You touch upon the very points which
do interest me the most, habitually.  The change of form, and enlargement of design, in "The
Prospective" had led me to express to one of the promoters of that object my desire to contribute.
The religious crisis is instant; but the man for it?  The next best thing, if, as I believe,
he is not to be found in England, is an association of such men as are to edit the new periodical.
An address delivered by Freeman Clarke at Boston, last May, makes me think him better fitted
for a leader than any other of the religious "Free-thinkers."  I wish I could send you my one
copy; but you do not need, it, and others do.  His object is the same as that of the "Alliance
Universelle:" only he is still more free from "partialism" (his own word) in his aspirations
and practical suggestions with respect to an ultimate "Christian synthesis."  He so far adopts
Comte's theory as to speak of religion itself under three successive aspects, historically,--1.
Thesis; 2. Antithesis;  3. Synthesis.  I made his acquaintance in England; and he inspired
confidence at once by his brave independence (incomptis capillis) and self-unconsciousness.
J. J. Tayler's address of last month follows in the same path,--all in favour of the "irenics,"
instead of polemics.

'The answer which you gave me so fully and distinctly to the questions I proposed for your
consideration was of value in turning to my view certain aspects of the case which I had not
before observed.  I had begun a second attack on your patience, when all was forgotten in the
news of the day.'

* * * * *

LADY BYRON TO H. C. R.

                                'BRIGHTON, Dec. 25, 1854.

'With J. J. Tayler, though almost a stranger to him, I have a peculiar reason for sympathising.
A book of his was a treasure to my daughter on her death-bed. {320a}

'I must confess to intolerance of opinion as to these two points,--eternal evil in any form,
and (involved in it) eternal suffering.  To believe in these would take away my God, who is
all-loving.  With a God with whom omnipotence and omniscience were all, evil might be eternal;
but why do I say to you what has been better said elsewhere?'

* * * * *

LADY BYRON TO H. C. R.

                               'BRIGHTON, Jan. 31, 1855.

. . .  'The great difficulty in respect to "The Review" {320b} seems to be to settle a basis,
inclusive and exclusive; in short, a boundary question.  From what you said, I think you agreed
with me, that a latitudinarian Christianity ought to be the character of the periodical; but
the depth of the roots should correspond with the width of the branches of that tree of knowledge.
Of some of those minds one might say, "They have no root;" and then, the richer the foliage,
the more danger that the trunk will fall.  "Grounded in Christ" has to me a most practical
significance and value.  I, too, have anxiety about a friend (Miss Carpenter) whose life is
of public importance: she, more than any of the English reformers, unless Nash and Wright,
has found the art of drawing out the good of human nature, and proving its existence.  She
makes these discoveries by the light of love.  I hope she may recover, from to-day's report.
The object of a Reformatory in Leicester has just been secured at a county meeting . . . .
Now the desideratum is well- qualified masters and mistresses.  If you hear of such by chance,
pray let me know.  The regular schoolmaster is an extinguisher.  Heart, and familiarity with
the class to be educated, are all important.  At home and abroad, the evidence is conclusive
on that point; for I have for many years attended to such experiments in various parts of Europe.
"The Irish Quarterly" has taken up the subject with rather more zeal than judgment.  I had
hoped that a sound and temperate exposition of the facts might form an article in the "Might-have-been
Review."'

* * * * *

LADY BYRON TO H. C. R.

                               'BRIGHTON, Feb. 12, 1855.

'I have at last earned the pleasure of writing to you by having settled troublesome matters
of little moment, except locally; and I gladly take a wider range by sympathizing in your interests.
There is, besides, no responsibility--for me at least--in canvassing the merits of Russell
or Palmerston, but much in deciding whether the "village politician" Jackson or Thompson shall
be leader in the school or public-house.

'Has not the nation been brought to a conviction that the system should be broken up? and is
Lord Palmerston, who has used it so long and so cleverly, likely to promote that object?

'But, whatever obstacles there may be in state affairs, that general persuasion must modify
other departments of action and knowledge. "Unroasted coffee" will no longer be accepted under
the official seal,--another reason for a new literary combination for distinct special objects,
a review in which every separate article should be convergent. If, instead of the problem to
make a circle pass through three given points, it were required to find the centre from which
to describe a circle through any three articles in the "Edinburgh" or "Westminster Review,"
who would accomplish it?  Much force is lost for want of this one-mindedness amongst the contributors.
It would not exclude variety or freedom in the unlimited discussion of means towards the ends
unequivocally recognized.  If St. Paul had edited a review, he might

have admitted Peter as well as Luke or Barnabas . . . .

'Ross gave us an excellent sermon, yesterday, on "Hallowing the Name." Though far from commonplace,
it might have been delivered in any church.

'We have had Fanny Kemble here last week.  I only heard her "Romeo and Juliet,"--not less instructive,
as her readings always are, than exciting; for in her glass Shakspeare is a philosopher.  I
know her, and honour her, for her truthfulness amidst all trials.'

* * * * *

LADY BYRON TO H. C. R.

                                'BRIGHTON, March 5, 1855.

'I recollect only those passages of Dr. Kennedy's book which bear upon the opinions of Lord
Byron.  Strange as it may seem, Dr. Kennedy is most faithful where you doubt his being so.
It is enough for me to remember, that he who thinks his transgressions beyond forgiveness (and
such was his own deepest feeling) has righteousness beyond that of the self-satisfied sinner,
or, perhaps, of the half-awakened.  Who, possessed by such ideas, could lead a life of love
and service to God or man?  They must, in a measure, realize themselves.  "The worst of it
is, I do believe," he said.  I, like all connected with him, was broken against the rock of
predestination.  I may be pardoned for referring to his frequent expression of the sentiment
that I was only sent to show him the happiness he was forbidden to enjoy.  You will now better
understand why "The Deformed Transformed" is too painful to me for discussion.  Since writing
the above, I have read Dr. Granville's letter on the Emperor of Russia, some passages of which
seem applicable to the prepossession I have described.  I will not mix up less serious matters
with these, which forty years have not made less than present still to me.'

* * * * *

LADY BYRON TO H. C. R.

                                'BRIGHTON, April 8, 1855.

. . . . 'The book which has interested me most, lately, is that on "Mosaism," translated by
Miss Goldsmid, and which I read, as you will believe, without any Christian (unchristian?)
prejudice.  The missionaries of the Unity were always, from my childhood, regarded by me as
in that sense the people; and I believe they were true to that mission, though blind, intellectually,
in demanding the crucifixion.  The present aspect of Jewish opinions, as shown in that book,
is all but Christian.  The author is under the error of taking, as the representatives of Christianity,
the Mystics, Ascetics, and Quietists; and therefore he does not know how near he is to the
true spirit of the gospel.  If you should happen to see Miss Goldsmid, pray tell her what a
great service I think she has rendered to us soi-disant Christians in translating a book which
must make us sensible of the little we have done, and the much we have to do, to justify our
preference of the later to the earlier dispensation.' . . .

* * * * *

LADY BYRON TO H. C. R.

                               BRIGHTON, April 11, 1855.

'You appear to have more definite information respecting "The Review" than I have obtained
. . .  It was also said that "The Review" would, in fact, be "The Prospective" amplified,--not
satisfactory to me, because I have always thought that periodical too Unitarian, in the sense
of separating itself from other Christian churches, if not by a high wall, at least by a wire-gauze
fence.  Now, separation is to me the [Greek text].  The revelation through Nature never separates:
it is the revelation through the Book which separates.  Whewell and Brewster would have been
one, had they not, I think, equally dimmed their lamps of science when reading their Bibles.
As long as we think a truth better for being shut up in a text, we are not of the wide-world
religion, which is to include all in one fold: for that text will not be accepted by the followers
of other books, or students of the same; and separation will ensue.  The Christian Scripture
should be dear to us, not as the charter of a few, but of mankind; and to fashion it into cages
is to deny its ultimate objects.  These thoughts hot, like the roll at breakfast, where your
letter was so welcome an addition.'

THREE DOMESTIC POEMS BY LORD BYRON.

FARE THEE WELL.

   Would that breast, by thee glanced over,
   Every inmost thought could show!
   Then thou wouldst at last discover
   'Twas not well to spurn it so.

   Though the world for this commend thee,
   Though it smile upon the blow,
   Even its praises must offend thee,
   Founded on another's woe.

   Though my many faults defaced me,
   Could no other arm be found,
   Than the one which once embraced me,
   To inflict a cureless wound?

   These are words of deeper sorrow
   Than the wail above the dead:
   Both shall live, but every morrow
   Wake us from a widowed bed.

   And when thou wouldst solace gather,
   When our child's first accents flow,
   Wilt thou teach her to say 'Father,'
   Though his care she must forego?

   When her little hand shall press thee,
   When her lip to thine is pressed,
   Think of him whose prayer shall bless thee;
   Think of him thy love had blessed.

   Should her lineaments resemble
   Those thou never more mayst see,
   Then thy heart will softly tremble
   With a pulse yet true to me.

   All my faults, perchance, thou knowest;
   All my madness none can know:
   All my hopes, where'er thou goest,
   Wither; yet with thee they go.

   Every feeling hath been shaken:
   Pride, which not a world could bow,
   Bows to thee, by thee forsaken;
   Even my soul forsakes me now.

   But 'tis done: all words are idle;
   Words from me are vainer still;
   But the thoughts we cannot bridle
   Force their way without the will.

   Fare thee well!--thus disunited,
   Torn from every nearer tie,
   Seared in heart, and lone and blighted,
   More than this I scarce can die.

A SKETCH.
   She taught the child to read, and taught so well,
   That she herself, by teaching, learned to spell.

   But to the theme, now laid aside too long,--
   The baleful burthen of this honest song.
   Though all her former functions are no more,
   She rules the circle which she served before.
   Look on the picture! deem it not o'ercharged;
   There is no trait which might not be enlarged:
   Yet true to 'Nature's journeymen,' who made
   This monster when their mistress left off trade,
   This female dog-star of her little sky,
   Where all beneath her influence droop or die.

   O wretch without a tear, without a thought,
   Save joy above the ruin thou hast wrought!
   The time shall come, nor long remote, when thou
   Shalt feel far more than thou inflictest now,--
   Feel for thy vile self-loving self in vain,
   And turn thee howling in unpitied pain.
   It is not in the storm nor in the strife
   We feel benumbed, and wish to be no more,
   But in the after-silence on the shore,
   When all is lost except a little life.
   I am too well avenged!
   Thy nights are banished from the realms of sleep!

FOOTNOTES.

{7}  The italics are mine.

{14}  The italics are mine.

{16} In Lady Blessington's 'Memoirs' this name is given Charlemont; in the late 'Temple Bar'
article on the character of Lady Byron it is given Clermont.  I have followed the latter.

{17}  The italics are mine.

{21} In Lady Blessington's conversations with Lord Byron, just before he went to Greece, she
records that he gave her this poem in manuscript.  It was published in her 'Journal.'

{22a} Vol. vi. p.22.

{22b} 'Byron's Miscellany,' vol. ii. p.358.  London, 1853.

{23}  The italics are mine.

{24} Lord Byron says, in his observations on an article in 'Blackwood:' 'I recollect being
much hurt by Romilly's conduct: he (having a general retainer for me) went over to the adversary,
alleging, on being reminded of his retainer, that he had forgotten it, as his clerk had so
many.  I observed that some of those who were now so eagerly laying the axe to my roof-tree
might see their own shaken.  His fell and crushed him.'

In the first edition of Moore's Life of Lord Byron there was printed a letter on Sir Samuel
Romilly, so brutal that it was suppressed in the subsequent editions.  (See Part III.)

{28a} Vol. iv. p.40

{28b} Ibid. p.46.

{31}  The italics are mine.

{41} Vol. iv. p.143.

{43} Lord Byron took especial pains to point out to Murray the importance of these two letters.
Vol. V. Letter 443, he says: 'You must also have from Mr. Moore the correspondence between
me and Lady B., to whom I offered a sight of all that concerns herself in these papers.  This
is important.  He has her letter and my answer.'

{44} 'And I, who with them on the cross am placed,
    .          .          .          .    truly
    My savage wife, more than aught else, doth harm me.'
                        Inferno, Canto, XVI., Longfellow's translation.

{49} 'Conversations,' p.108.

{51} Murray's edition of 'Byron's Works,' vol. ii. p.189; date of dedication to Hobhouse, Jan.
2, 1818.

{61} Recently, Lord Lindsay has published another version of this story, which makes it appear
that he has conversed with a lady who conversed with Hobhouse during his lifetime, in which
this story is differently reported.  In the last version, it is made to appear that Hobhouse
got this declaration from Lady Byron herself.

{70a} The references are to the first volume of the first edition of Moore's 'Life,' originally
published by itself.

{70b} 'The officious spies of his privacy,' p.65O.

{72} 'The deserted husband,' p.651.

{86} 'I (Campbell) had not time to ask Lady Byron's permission to print this private letter;
but it seemed to me important, and I have published it meo periculo.'

{95a} 'Noctes,' July 1822.

{95b} 'Noctes,' September 1832.

{105} Miss Martineau's Biographical Sketches.

{113}  The italics are mine.--H. B. S.

{119} In 'The Noctes' of November, 1824 Christopher North says, 'I don't call Medwin a liar.
. . .  Whether Byron bammed him, or he, by virtue of his own stupidity, was the sole and sufficient
bammifier of himself, I know not.'  A note says that Murray had been much shocked by Byron's
misstatements to Medwin as to money-matters with him.  The note goes on to say, 'Medwin could
not have invented them, for they were mixed up with acknowledged facts; and the presumption
is that Byron mystified his gallant acquaintance.  He was fond of such tricks.'

{121} This one fact is, that Lord Byron might have had an open examination in court, if he
had only persisted in refusing the deed of separation.

{126} In the history of 'Blackwood's Magazine,' prefaced to the American edition of 1854, Mackenzie
says of the 'Noctes' papers, 'Great as was their popularity in England it was peculiarly in
America that their high merit and undoubted originality received the heartiest recognition
and appreciation.  Nor is this wonderful when it is considered that for one reader of "Blackwood's
Magazine" in the old country there cannot be less than fifty in the new.'

{139} The reader is here referred to Lady Byron's other letters, in Part III.; which also show
the peculiarly active and philosophical character of her mind, and the class of subjects on
which it habitually dwelt.

{147} See her character of Dr. King, Part III.

{148} Alluding to the financial crisis in the United States in 1857.

{149} 'The Minister's Wooing.'

{150} See her letter on spiritualistic phenomena, Part III.

{161} This novel of Godwin's is a remarkably powerful story.  It is related in the first person
by the supposed hero, Caleb Williams.  He represents himself as private secretary to a gentleman
of high family named Falkland.  Caleb accidentally discovers that his patron has, in a moment
of passion, committed a murder.  Falkland confesses the crime to Caleb, and tells him that
henceforth he shall always suspect him, and keep watch over him.  Caleb finds this watchfulness
insupportable, and tries to escape, but without success.  He writes a touching letter to his
patron, imploring him to let him go, and promising never to betray him. The scene where Falkland
refuses this is the most highly wrought in the book.  He says to him, "Do not imagine that
I am afraid of you; I wear an armour against which all your weapons are impotent.  I have dug
a pit for you: and whichever way you move, backward or forward, to the right or the left, it
is ready to swallow you.  Be still!  If once you fall, call as loud as you will, no man on
earth shall hear your cries: prepare a tale however plausible or however true, the whole world
shall execrate you for an impostor.  Your innocence shall be of no service to you.  I laugh
at so feeble a defence.  It is I that say it: you may believe what I tell you.  Do you know,
miserable wretch!" added he, stamping on the ground with fury, "that I have sworn to preserve
my reputation, whatever be the expense; that I love it more than the whole world and its inhabitants
taken together? and do you think that you shall wound it?"  The rest of the book shows how
this threat was executed.

{168} Alluding to Buchanan's election.

