Say all in your mind about your Lover, now Charles knows of it; he will be as anxious to hear
as me. All the time we can spare from talking of the characters and plot of the Farce, we talk
of you. I have got a fresh bottle of Brandy to-day: if you were here, you should have a glass,
three parts brandy--so you should. I bought a pound of bacon to-day, not so good as yours.
I wish the little caps were finished. I am glad the Medicines and the Cordials bore the fatigue
of their journey so well. I promise you I will write often, and not mind the postage. God bless
you. Charles does not send his love, because he is not here.

Yours affectionately, M. LAMB.

Write as often as ever you can. Do not work too hard.

[Mr. Hazlitt dates this letter April, thinking that Mary Lamb's pen slipped when she wrote
February 21 half-way through. But I think February must be right; because (1) Miss Stoddart
has only just left, and Lamb tells Hazlitt in January that she is staying a week or so longer:
April would make this time three months; and (2) Lamb has told Hazlitt on February 19 that
his farce is finished.

Coleridge left Malta for Rome on September 21, 1805. He was probably at Naples from October,
1805, to the end of January, 1806, when he went to Rome, remaining there until May 18. Writing
to Mrs. Clarkson on March 2, 1806, Dorothy Wordsworth quotes from a letter written on February
25 by Mary Lamb to Mrs. S.T. Coleridge and containing this passage: "My Brother has received
a letter from Stoddart dated December 26, in which he tells him that Coleridge was then at
Naples. We have also heard from a Mr. Dawe that a friend of his had received a letter of the
same date, which mentioned Coleridge having been lately travelling towards Rome with a party
of gentlemen; but that he changed his mind and returned back to Naples. Stoddart says nothing
more than that he was driven to Naples in consequence of the French having taken possession
of Trieste." (See the Athenaeum, January 23, 1904.)

"Vide Pinckhorn." I cannot explain this, unless a Justice Pinckhorn had ogled Sarah Stoddart
and offered her a present of a book. Mary Lamb, by the way, some years later taught Latin to
William Hazlitt, Junior, Sarah's son.

Martin Charles Burney, the son of Captain Burney, born in 1788, a devoted admirer of the Lambs
to the end. He was now only eighteen. We shall often meet him again.

Mr. White was not Lamb's friend James White.

Winterslow, in Wiltshire, about six miles from Salisbury, was a small property belonging to
Sarah Stoddart.

"Widow Blackacre." In Wycherley's "Plain Dealer:" a busy-body and persistent litigant.]

LETTER 148

MARY LAMB TO SARAH STODDART

[March, 1806.]

My dear Sarah,--No intention of forfeiting my promise, but mere want of time, has prevented
me from continuing my journal. You seem pleased with the long, stupid one I sent, and, therefore,
I shall certainly continue to write at every opportunity. The reason why I have not had any
time to spare, is because Charles has given himself some holidays after the hard labour of
finishing his farce, and, therefore, I have had none of the evening leisure I promised myself.
Next week he promises to go to work again. I wish he may happen to hit upon some new plan,
to his mind, for another farce: when once begun, I do not fear his perseverance, but the holidays
he has allowed himself, I fear, will unsettle him. I look forward to next week with the same
kind of anxiety I did to the first entrance at the new lodging. We have had, as you know, so
many teasing anxieties of late, that I have got a kind of habit of foreboding that we shall
never be comfortable, and that he will never settle to work: which I know is wrong, and which
I will try with all my might to overcome--for certainly, if I could but see things as they
really are, our prospects are considerably improved since the memorable day of Mrs. Fenwick's
last visit. I have heard nothing of that good lady, or of the Fells, since you left us.

We have been visiting a little--to Norris's, to Godwin's; and last night we did not come home
from Captain Burney's till two o'clock: the Saturday night was changed to Friday, because Rickman
could not be there to-night. We had the best tea things, and the litter all cleared away, and
every thing as handsome as possible--Mrs. Rickman being of the party. Mrs. Rickman is much
increased in size since we saw her last, and the alteration in her strait shape wonderfully
improves her. Phillips was there, and Charles had a long batch of Cribbage with him: and, upon
the whole, we had the most chearful evening I have known there a long time. To-morrow, we dine
at Holcroft's. These things rather fatigue me; but I look for a quiet week next week, and hope
for better times. We have had Mrs. Brooks and all the Martins, and we have likewise been there;
so that I seem to have been in a continual bustle lately. I do not think Charles cares so much
for the Martins as he did, which is a fact you will be glad to hear--though you must not name
them when you write: always remember, when I tell you any thing about them, not to mention
their names in return.

We have had a letter from your brother, by the same mail as yours, I suppose; he says he does
not mean to return till summer, and that is all he says about himself; his letter being entirely
filled with a long story about Lord Nelson--but nothing more than what the newspapers have
been full of, such as his last words, &c. Why does he tease you with so much good advice? is
it merely to fill up his letters as he filled ours with Lord Nelson's exploits? or has any
new thing come out against you? has he discovered Mr. Curse-a-rat's correspondence? I hope
you will not write to that news-sending gentleman any more. I promised never more to give my
advice, but one may be allowed to hope a little; and I also hope you will have something to
tell me soon about Mr. W[hite]: have you seen him yet? I am sorry to hear your Mother is not
better, but I am in a hoping humour just now, and I cannot help hoping that we shall all see
happier days. The bells are just now ringing for the taking of the Cape of Good Hope.

I have written to Mrs. Coleridge to tell her that her husband is at Naples; your brother slightly
named his being there, but he did not say that he had heard from him himself. Charles is very
busy at the Office; he will be kept there to-day till seven or eight o'clock: and he came home
very smoky and drinky last night; so that I am afraid a hard day's work will not agree very
well with him.

0 dear! what shall I say next? Why this I will say next, that I wish you was with me; I have
been eating a mutton chop all alone, and I have been just looking in the pint porter pot, which
I find quite empty, and yet I am still very dry. If you was with me, we would have a glass
of brandy and water; but it is quite impossible to drink brandy and water by oneself; therefore,
I must wait with patience till the kettle boils. I hate to drink tea alone, it is worse than
dining alone, We have got a fresh cargo of biscuits from Captain Burney's. I have--

March l4.--Here I was interrupted; and a long, tedious interval has intervened, during which
I have had neither time nor inclination to write a word. The Lodging--that pride and pleasure
of your heart and mine--is given up, and here he is again--Charles, I mean--as unsettled and
as undetermined as ever. When he went to the poor lodging, after the hollidays I told you he
had taken, he could not endure the solitariness of them, and I had no rest for the sole of
my foot till I promised to believe his solemn protestations that he could and would write as
well at home as there. Do you believe this?

I have no power over Charles: he will do--what he will do. But I ought to have some little
influence over myself. And therefore I am most manfully resolving to turn over a new leaf with
my own mind. Your visit to us, though not a very comfortable one to yourself, has been of great
use to me. I set you up in my fancy as a kind of thing that takes an interest in my concerns;
and I hear you talking to me, and arguing the matter very learnedly, when I give way to despondency.
You shall hear a good account of me, and the progress I make in altering my fretful temper
to a calm and quiet one. It is but being once thorowly convinced one is wrong, to make one
resolve to do so no more; and I know my dismal faces have been almost as great a drawback upon
Charles's comfort, as his feverish, teazing ways have been upon mine. Our love for each other
has been the torment of our lives hitherto. I am most seriously intending to bend the whole
force of my mind to counteract this, and I think I see some prospect of success.

Of Charles ever bringing any work to pass at home, I am very doubtful; and of the farce succeeding,
I have little or no hope; but if I could once get into the way of being chearful myself, I
should see an easy remedy in leaving town and living cheaply, almost wholly alone; but till
I do find we really are comfortable alone, and by ourselves, it seems a dangerous experiment.
We shall certainly stay where we are till after next Christmas; and in the mean time, as I
told you before, all my whole thoughts shall be to change myself into just such a chearful
soul as you would be in a lone house, with no companion but your brother, if you had nothing
to vex you--nor no means of wandering after Curse-a-rats.

Do write soon: though I write all about myself, I am thinking all the while of you, and I am
uneasy at the length of time it seems since I heard from you. Your Mother, and Mr. White, is
running continually in my head; and this second winter makes me think how cold, damp, and forlorn
your solitary house will feel to you. I would your feet were perched up again on our fender.

Manning is not yet gone. Mrs. Holcroft is brought to bed. Mrs. Reynolds has been confined at
home with illness, but is recovering. God bless you.

Yours affectionately, M. LAMB.

["Norris's"--Randal Norris, sub-treasurer of the Inner Temple, whose wife, nee Faint, came
from Widford, where she had known Lamb's grandmother, Mary Field.

Captain Burney's whist parties, in Little James Street, Pimlico, were, as a rule, on Saturdays.
Later Lamb established a Wednesday party.

Of Mrs. Brooks I have no knowledge; nor of him whom Mary Lamb called Mr. Curse-a-rat.

"The Cape of Good Hope." The Cape of Good Hope, having been taken by the English in 1795 from
the Dutch, and restored to them at the Peace of Amiens in 1802, had just been retaken by the
English.

"Mrs. Holcroft is brought to bed." The child was Louisa, afterwards Mrs. Badams, one of Lamb's
correspondents late in life.]

LETTER 149

CHARLES LAMB TO JOHN RICKMAN

March, 1806.

Dear Rickman,--I send you some papers about a salt-water soap, for which the inventor is desirous
of getting a parliamentary reward, like Dr. Jenner. Whether such a project be feasible, I mainly
doubt, taking for granted the equal utility. I should suppose the usual way of paying such
projectors is by patents and contracts. The patent, you see, he has got. A contract he is about
with the Navy Board. Meantime, the projector is hungry. Will you answer me two questions, and
return them with the papers as soon as you can? Imprimis, is there any chance of success in
application to Parliament for a reward? Did you ever hear of the invention? You see its benefits
and saving to the nation (always the first motive with a true projector) are feelingly set
forth: the last paragraph but one of the estimate, in enumerating the shifts poor seamen are
put to, even approaches to the pathetic. But, agreeing to all he says, is there the remotest
chance of Parliament giving the projector anything; and when should application be made, now
or after a report (if he can get it) from the navy board? Secondly, let the infeasibility be
as great as you will, you will oblige me by telling me the way of introducing such an application
to Parliament, without buying over a majority of members, which is totally out of projector's
power. I vouch nothing for the soap myself; for I always wash in fresh water, and find it answer
tolerably well for all purposes of cleanliness; nor do I know the projector; but a relation
of mine has put me on writing to you, for whose parliamentary knowledge he has great veneration.

P.S. The Capt. and Mrs. Burney and Phillips take their chance at cribbage here on Wednesday.
Will you and Mrs. R. join the party? Mary desires her compliments to Mrs. R., and joins in
the invitation.

Yours truly, C. LAMB.

[Rickman now held the post of private secretary to the Speaker, Charles Abbot, afterwards Lord
Colchester.

Captain Burney we have already met. His wife, Sarah Burney, was, there is good reason to suppose,
in Lamb's mind when he wrote the Elia essay "Mrs. Battle's Opinions on Whist." Phillips was
either Colonel Phillips, a retired officer of marines, who had sailed with Burney and Captain
Cook, had known Dr. Johnson, and had married Burney's sister; or Ned Phillips (Rickman's Secretary).]

LETTER 150

CHARLES LAMB TO WILLIAM HAZLITT

March 15, 1806.

