Not much apology is needed, it may be hoped, for the space given to this curious kind; the
bulk of its production, the length of its popularity, and the intrinsic merit of some few of
its better examples vindicate its position here. But a confession should take the place of
the unnecessary excuse already partly made. The artificial fairy tale of the more regular kind
was not, by the law of its being, prevented almost unavoidably from doing service to the novel
at large, as the Eastern story was; but, as a matter of fact, it did little except what will
be mentioned in the next paragraph. That it helped to exemplify afresh what had been shown
over and over again for centuries, the singular recreative faculty of the nation and the language,
was about all. But another national characteristic, the as yet incurable set of the French
mind towards types--which, if the second volume of this work ever appears, will, it is hoped,
be shown to have spared the later novel--seized on these tales. They are "as like as my fingers
to my fingers," and they are not very pretty fingers as a rule. Incidentally they served as
frameworks to some of the worst verse in the world, nor, for the most part, did they even encourage
very good prose. You may get some good out of them; but unless you like hunting, and are not
vexed by frequent failures to "draw," the Cabinet des Fées is best left to exploration at second-hand.

       *       *       *       *       *

To collect the results of this long chapter, we may observe that in these three departments--Pastoral,
Heroic, and Fairy--various important elements of general novel material and construction are
provided in a manner not yet noticed. The Pastoral may seem to be the most obsolete, the most
of a mere curiosity. But the singular persistence and, in a way, universality of this apparently
fossil convention has been already pointed out; and it is perhaps only necessary to shift the
pointer to the fact that the novels with which one of the most modern, in perhaps the truest
sense of that word, of modern novelists, though one of the eldest, Mr. Thomas Hardy, began
to make his mark--Under the Greenwood Tree and Far from the Madding Crowd--may be claimed by
the pastoral with some reason. And it has another and a wider claim--that it keeps up, in its
own way, the element of the imaginative, of the fanciful--let us say even of the unreal--without
which romance cannot live, without which novel is almost repulsive, and which the increasing
advances of realism itself were to render more than ever indispensable. As for the Heroic,
we have already shown how much, with all its faults, it did for the novel generally in construction
and in other ways. It has been shown likewise, it is hoped, how the Fairy story, besides that
additional provision of imagination, fancy, and dream which has just been said to be so important--mingled
with this a kind of realism which was totally lacking in the others, and which showed itself
especially in one immensely important department wherein they had been so much to seek. Fairies
may be (they are not to my mind) things that "do not happen"; but the best of these fairies
are fifty times more natural, not merely than the characters of Scudéry and Gomberville, but
than those (I hold to my old blasphemy) of Racine. Animals may not talk; but the animals of
Perrault and even of Madame d'Aulnoy talk divinely well, and, what is more, in a way most humanly
probable and interesting. Never was there such a triumph of the famous impossible-probable
as a good fairy story. Except to the mere scientist and to (of course, quite a different person)
the unmitigated fool, these stories, at least the best of them, fully deserve the delightful
phrase which Southey attributes to a friend of his. They are "necessary and voluptuous and
right." They were, to the French eighteenth century and to French prose, almost what the ballad
was to the English eighteenth century and to English verse; almost what the Märchen was to
the prose and verse alike of yet un-Prussianised Germany. They were more than twice blessed:
for they were charming in themselves; they exercised good influence on other literary productions;
and they served as precious antidotes to bad things that they could not improve, and almost
as precious alternatives to things good in themselves but of a different kind from theirs.

What, however, none of the kinds discussed in this chapter gave entirely, while only the fairy
story gave in part, and that in strong contrast to another part of itself, was a history of
ordinary life--high, low, or middle--dealing with characters more or less representing live
and individual personages; furnished with incidents of a possible and probable character more
or less regularly constructed; furnished further with effective description of the usual scenery,
manners, and general accessories of living; and, finally, giving such conversation as might
be thought necessary in forms suitable to "men of this world," in the Shakespearian phrase.
In other words, none of them attained, or even attempted to fulfil, the full definition of
the novel. The scattered books to be mentioned in the next chapter did not, perhaps, in any
one case--even Madame de la Fayette's--quite achieve this; but in all of them, even in Sorel's,
we see more or less conscious or unconscious attempt at it.

FOOTNOTES:

[124] Herr Körting (v. sup. p. 133) gave considerable space to Barclay's famous Argenis, which
also appeared fairly early in the century. To treat, however, a Latin book, written by a Scotsman,
with admittedly large if not main reference to European politics, as a "French novel," seems
a literary solecism. I do not know whether it is rash to add that the Argenis itself seems
to me to have been wildly overpraised. It is at any rate one of the few books--one of the still
fewer romances--which have defied my own powers of reading at more than one attempt.

[125]

[Sidenote: Note on marked influence of Greek Romance.]

The repetition, in the seventeenth century, of something very like a phenomenon which we noticed
in the twelfth, is certainly striking, and may seem at first sight rather uncanny. But those
who have made some attempt to "find the whole" in literature, and in that attempt have at least
found out something about the curious laws of revolution and recurrence which take the place
of any progress in a straight line, will deem the thing natural enough. We declined, in the
earlier case, to admit much, if any, direct influence of the accomplished Greek Romance on
the Romance of the West; but we showed how classical subjects, whether pure or tinctured with
Oriental influence, induced an immensely important development of this same Western Romance
in two directions--that of manners, character, and passion, and that of marvel. In the later
period classical influences of all sorts are again at work; but infinitely the larger part
of that work is done by the Greek Romances themselves--pastoral, adventurous, and sentimental,--the
dates of the translations of which will be given presently. And the newer Oriental kind--coming
considerably later still and sharing its nature certainly, and perhaps its origin, not now
with classical mythology, but again, in the most curious way, with Western folk stories--supplements
and diversifies the reinforcement.

[126] Scudéry writes "Urfé," and this confirms the obiter dictum of Sainte-Beuve, that with
the Christian name, the "Monsieur," or some other title you must use the "de," otherwise not.
But in this particular instance I think most French writers give the particle.

[127] I myself, in writing a Short History of French Literature many years ago, had to apologise
for incomplete knowledge; and I will not undertake even now to have read every romance cursorily
mentioned in this chapter--indeed, some are not very easy to get at. But I have done my best
to extend my knowledge, assisted by a rather minute study of the contemporary English heroic
romance in prose and verse; and I believe I may say that I do now really know the Grand Cyrus,
though even now I will again not say that I have read every one of its perhaps two million
words, or even the whole of every one of its more than 12,000 pages. In regard to the Astrée
I have been less fortunately situated; but "I have been there and still would go."

[128] The above remarks are most emphatically not intended to refer to the work of Mr. Greg.

[129] The sheep, whether as a beast of most multitude or for more recondite reasons, has, of
course, the preference; but it may be permissible to say that no guardian of animals is excluded.
Goat-herds in the Greek ran the shepherd hard; neat-herds and swine-herds abound everywhere
except, as concerns the last, in Jewry; even the goose-girl figures, and has in Provençal at
least a very pretty name--auquiera.

[130] The mediaeval pastourelle is no doubt to some extent conventional and "made in moulds."
But it is by no means so unreal as (whether Greek was so or not) Roman pastoral pretty certainly
was, and as modern has been beyond possibility of doubt. How good it could be, without any
convention at all, Henryson showed once for all in our own language by Robene and Makyne.

[131] Theagenes and Chariclea had preceded it by thirteen years, though a fresh translation
appeared in the same year, as did the first of Hysminias and Hysmine. Achilles Tatius (Cleitophon
and Leucippe) had been partly done in 1545, but waited till 1568 for completion.

[132] Op. cit. sup.

[133] They are almost always Amours after their Greek prototypes, sometimes simple, often qualified,
and these most frequently by such adjectives as "Infortunées et chastes," "Constantes et infortunées,"
"Chastes et heureuses," "Pudiques," etc. etc. Not a few are taken direct from episodes of Ariosto
or other elders; otherwise they are "loves" of Laoniphile, Lozie, Poliphile and Mellonimphe,
Pégase (who has somehow or other become a nymph) and Léandre, Dachmion and Deflore (a rather
unlucky heroine-name), etc. etc. Their authors are nearly as numerous as their titles; but
the chief were a certain Sieur de Nervèze, whose numerous individual efforts were collected
more than once to the number at least of a good baker's dozen, and a Sieur des Escuteaux, who
had the same fortune. Sometimes the Hellenism went rather to seed in such titles as Erocaligenèse,
which supposed itself to be Greek for "Naissance d'un bel amour." It is only (at least in England)
in the very largest libraries, perhaps in the British Museum alone, that there is any chance
of examining these things directly; some of them escaped even the mighty hunt of M. Reynier
himself. What the present writer has found is treated shortly in the text.

[134] M. Reynier (most justly, but of course after many predecessors) points out that the common
filiation of these things on Marini and Gongora is chronologically impossible. We could, equally
of course, supply older examples still in English; and persons of any reading can carry the
thing back through sixteenth- and fifteenth-century examples to the Dark Ages and the late
Greek classics--if no further.

[135] It is fair to say that the first is "make-weighted" with a pastoral play entitled Athlette,
from the heroine's rather curious name.

[136] It has two poems and some miscellanea. Something like this is the case with another bookmaker
of the class, Du Souhait.

[137] It may be childish, but the association in this group of ladies--three of them bearing
some of the greatest historic names of France, and the fourth that of the admirable critic
with no other namesake of whom I ever met--seemed to me interesting. It is perhaps worth adding
that Isabel de Rochechouart seems to have been not merely dedicatee but part author of the
first tale.

[138] The habit is common with these authors.

[139] He gives more analysis than usual, but complains of the author's "affectation and bad
taste." I venture to think this relatively rather harsh, though it is positively too true of
the whole group.

[140] La Vie et les Oeuvres de Honoré d'Urfé. Par le Chanoine O. C. Reure, Paris, 1910.

[141] The Abbé Reure, to whom I owe my own knowledge of the translation and dedication, says
nothing more.

[142] M. Reynier, in the useful book so often quoted, has shown that, as one would expect,
this influence is not absent from the smaller French love-novels which preceded the Astrée;
indeed, as we saw, it is obvious, though in a form of more religiosity, as early as the Heptameron.
But it was not till the seventeenth century in France, or till a little before it in some cases
with us, that "Love in fantastic triumph sat" between the shadowing wings of sensual and intellectual
passion.

[143] They had, indeed, neither luck nor distinction after Honoré's death: and the last of
the family died, like others of the renegade nobles of France, by his own hand, to escape the
guillotine which he himself had helped to establish.

[144] The more orthodox "laws of love" which Celadon puts up in his "Temple of Astraea" are
less amusing.

[145] He constantly plays this part of referee and moraliser. But he is by no means exempt
from the pleasing fever of the place, and some have been profane enough to think his mistress,
Diane, more attractive than the divine Astrée herself.

[146] Very delicate persons have been shocked by the advantages afforded to Celadon in his
disguise as the Druid's daughter, and the consequent familiarity with the innocent unrecognising
heroine. But honi soit will cover them.

[147] There is plenty of this, including a regular siege of the capital, Marcilly.

[148] The constant confusion, in these quasi-classical romances, of masculine and feminine
names is a rather curious feature. But the late Sir W. Gilbert played some tricks of the kind
in Pygmalion and Galatea, and I remember an English novelist, with more pretensions to scholarship
than Gilbert, making the particularly unfortunate blunder of attributing to Longus a book called
"Doris and Chloe."

[149] It is fair to say that Urfé has been praised for these historical excursions or incursions
of his.

[150] Its difficulty of access in the French has been noted. The English translation may be
less rare, but it is not a good one even of its kind. And, in face of the most false and misleading
statements, never more frequent than at the present moment, about the efficacy of translations,
it may be well to insist on the truth. For science, history philosophy (though in a descending
ratio through these three) translations may serve. The man who knows Greek or Latin or any
other literature only through them knows next to nothing of that literature as such, and in
its literary quality. The version may be, as in the leading case of FitzGerald's Omar Khayyam,
literature itself of the highest class; but it is quite other literature than the original,
and is, in fact, a new original itself. It may, while keeping closer, be as good as Catullus
on Sappho or as bad as Mr. Gladstone on Toplady in form; but the form, even if copied, is always
again other.

[151] Some reasons will be given later for taking this first--not the least being the juxtaposition
with the Astrée. The actual order of the chief "Heroic" authors and books is as follows: Gomberville,
La Caritée, 1622; Polexandre, 1632; Citherée, 1640-42. La Calprenède, Cassandre, 1642; Cléopâtre,
1648; Faramond, 1662. Mlle. de Scudéry, Ibrahim, 1641; Artamène, 1649; Clélie, 1656; Almahide,
1660.

[152] Cousin relieved his work on "The True, the Good, and the Beautiful" not only with elaborate
disquisitions on the ladies of the Fronde who, though certainly beautiful were not very very
good, but with a long exposition of French society as revealed in the Grand Cyrus itself.

[153] Scudéry bore, and evidently rejoiced in, this sounding title, which can never have had
a titular to whom it was more appropriate. The place seems to have been an actual fortress,
though a small one, near Marseilles.

[154] I blushed for my namesake when I found, some time afterwards, that he had copied this
unusual (save in German) feminisation of the sun from Gomberville (v. inf. p. 240).

[155] That is classical education: in comparison with which "all others is cagmaggers."

[156] I have wavered a little between adopting French or Greek forms of names. But as the authors
are not consistent, and as some of their more fanciful compounds classicalise badly, I have
finally decided to stick to the text in every case, except in those of historical persons where
French forms such as "Pisistrate" would jar.

[157] Like Robina in Mrs. Lirriper's Legacy.

[158] There are ten parts, each divisible into two volumes and three books. There is also a
division at the end of the fifth "part" and the tenth volume, the first five (ten) having apparently
been issued together. The "parts" are continuously paged--running never, I think, to less than
1000 pages and more than once to a little over 1400.

[159] Drama may have done harm here, if those dramatic critics who say that you must never
"puzzle the audience" are right. The happy novel-reader is of less captious mood and mould:
he trusts his author and hopes his author will pull him through.

[160] Some exception in the way of occasional flashes may be made for two lively maids of honour
to be mentioned later, Martésie and Doralise.

[161] There is an immense "throw-back" after the Sinope affair, in which the previous history
of Artamène and the circumstances of Mandane's abduction are recounted up to date--I hope that
some readers at least will not have forgotten the introduction of Lancelot to Guinevere. We
have here the Middle Age and the Grand Siècle like philippines in a nutshell.

[162] To understand the account, it must be remembered that the combat takes place in a position
secluded from the two armies and strictly forbidden to lookers-on; also that it is to be absolutely
à outrance.

[163] It is not perhaps extravagant to suggest that Sir Walter had something of this fight,
as well as of the Combat des Trente, in his mind when he composed the famous record of the
Clan Chattan and Clan Quhele battle.

[164] Praed's delightful Medora might have found the practice of the Grand Cyrus rather oppressive;
but she would have thoroughly approved its principles.

[165] He is King of Cappadocia now, Astyages being alive; and only succeeds to Media later.
It must never be forgotten that the Cyropaedia, not Herodotus, is the chief authority relied
upon by the authors, though they sometimes mix the two.

[166] There is a very great physical resemblance between the two, and this plays an important
and repeated part in the book.

[167] The King of Assyria, the King of Pontus, and the later Aryante (v. inf.). The fourth
is the "good Rival" Mazare, who, though he also is at one time in possession of the prize,
and though he never is weary of "loving unloved," is too honourable a gentleman to force his
attentions on an unwilling mistress.

[168] It is probably, however, not quite fair to leave the reader, even for a time, under the
impression that it is merely an excursion. Of all the huge and numerous loop-lines, backwaters,
ramifications, reticulations, episodes, or whatever they may be called, there is hardly one
which has not a real connection with the general plot; and the appearance of Thomyris here
has such connection (as will be duly seen) in a capital and vital degree.

[169] Some readers no doubt will not need to be reminded that this is the original title of
The Marriage of Kitty,--literally "gangway," but in the sense of "makeshift" or "locum tenens."

[170] Cf. John Heywood's Interlude of Love. These stories also remind one of the short romances
noticed above.

[171] No gentleman, of course, could refuse a challenge pure and simple, unless in very peculiar
circumstances; but hardly Sir Lucius O'Trigger or Captain M'Turk would oblige a friend to enter
into this curious kind of bargain.

[172] Another instance of the astonishing interweaving of the book occurs here; for here is
the first mention of Sappho and other persons and things to be caught up sooner or later.

[173] Such knowledge as I have of the other romances of the "heroic" group shows them to be,
with the possible exception of those of La Calprenède, inferior in this respect, even allowing
for the influence of the Cyropaedia.

[174] An extract may be worth giving in a note: "For the rest, if there is anybody who is not
acquainted enough with all my authors [this is a very delightful sweep over literature] to
know what was the Ring of Gyges which is spoken of in this volume, let him not imagine that
it is Angelica's, with which I chose to adorn Artamène; and let him, on the contrary, know
that it was Ariosto who stole this famous ring which gave his Paladins so much trouble; that
he took it from those great men whom I am obliged to follow" [a sweep of George's plumed hat
in the best Molièresque marquis style to Herodotus, Xenophon, and Cicero (who comes in shortly)
and the others].

[175] The opening sentences of this Histoire give a curious picture of the etiquette of these
spoken narrative episodes, which, from the letters and memoirs of the time, we can see to have
been actually practised in the days of Précieuse society. [The story is not of course delivered
in the presence of Panthea herself; but she sends a confidante, Pherenice, to tell it.] "They
were no sooner in Araminta's apartment than, after having made Cyrus sit down, and placed Pherenice
on a seat opposite to them, she begged her to begin her narrative and not to hide from them,
if it were possible, the smallest thought of Abradates and Panthea. Accordingly this agreeable
person, having made them a compliment so as to ask their pardon for the scanty art she brought
to the story she was going to tell, actually began as follows:"

[176] Observe how vague what follows is. A scholar and a modiste, working in happiest conjunction,
might possibly "create" the dress; but as for the face it might be any one out of those on
one hundred chocolate-boxes.

[177] This passage gives a key to the degradation of the word "elegant." It has kept the connotation
of "grace," but lost that of "nobility."

[178] Abstracts of all the principal members of this group and others occurred in the Bibliothèque
Universelle des Romans, which appeared as a periodical at Paris in 1778. But what I do not
know is whether any one ever arranged an elaborate tabular syllabus of the book like that of
Burton's Anatomy. It would lend itself admirably to the process if any one had time and inclination
to do the thing.

[179] With the exception, already noted, of Urfé; and even he is far below Donne.

[180] There were, though not many, actual instances of capital punishment for disregard of
the edicts against duelling, and imprisonment was common. But the deterrent effect was very
small. Montmorency-Bouteville was the best-known victim.

[181] It is amusing, as one reads this, to remember Hume's essay in which he lays stress on
the contrast between Greek and French ideas in this very matter of the duel.

[182] A curious and rather doubtful position; well worth the consideration of anybody who wishes
to write the much-wanted History and Philosophy of Duelling.

[183] The author uses "Prince," as indeed one might expect, rather in the Continental than
in the English way, and the persons who bear it are not always sons of kings or members of
reigning families. The two most agreeable quiproquos arising from this difference are probably
the fictitious unwillingness of the excellent Miss Higgs to descend from "Princesse de Montcontour"
to "Duchesse d'Ivry," and the, it is said, historical contempt of a comparatively recent Papal
dignitary for an English Roman Catholic document which had no Princes among the signatories.

[184] Nobody, unless I forget, has the wisdom to put the counter-question, "Can you ever cease
loving if you have once really loved?" which is to be carefully distinguished from a third,
"Can you love more than once?" But there are more approaches to these arcana in the Astrée
than in Mlle. de Scudéry.

[185] A very nice phrase.

[186] He had refused to cross swords with her, and had lowered his own in salute.

[187] Compare the not quite so ingenious adjustment of the intended burning of Croesus.

[188] Clélie is about as bad in this respect, v. inf.: the others less so.

[189] I have said that you can do this with the Astrée, and that this makes for superiority
in it: but there also I think absolutely continuous reading of the whole would become "collar-work."

[190] That is to say, several weeks occupied in the manner above indicated. You may sometimes
read two of the volumes in a day, but much oftener you will find one enough; in the actual
process for the present history some intervals must be allowed for digestion and précis; and,
as above remarked, if other forms of "cheerfulness," in Dr. Johnson's friend Mr. Edwards's
phrase, do not "break in" of themselves, you must make them, to keep any freshness in the task.
I fancy the twenty volumes were, if not "my sole occupation" (like that more cheerful and charitable
one of the head-waiter at Limmer's), my main one for nearly twice twenty days.

[191] In this respect the remarks above extend backwards to the Astrée, and even to some of
the smaller and earlier novels mentioned in connection with it. But the "Heroics," especially
Mlle. de Scudéry, modernise the treatment not inconsiderably.

[192] Achilles Tatius and the author of Hysminias and Hysmine come nearest. But the first is
too ancient and the last too modern.

[193] We have indeed endeavoured to discover a "form" of the greatest and best kind in the
Arthurian, but it has been acknowledged that it may not have been deliberately reached--or
approached--by even a single artist, and that, if it was, the identity of that artist is not
quite certain.

[194] The intolerance of anything but scraps is one of the numerous arms and legs of the twentieth
century Baal. There are some who have not bowed down to it.

[195] For Soliman is not indisposed to fall in love with his illustrious Bassa's beloved.

[196] At the close of Old Mortality.

[197] One is lost if one begins quoting from these books. But there is another passage at the
end of the same volume worth glancing at for its oddity. It is an elaborate chronological "checking"
of the age of the different characters; and, odd as it is, one cannot help remembering that
not a few authors from Walter Map (or whoever it was) to Thackeray might have been none the
worse for similar calculations.

[198] It is not, I hope, frivolous or pusillanimous, but merely honest, to add that, as I have
spent much less time on Clélie than on the other book, it has had less opportunity of boring me.

[199] Cf. the Astrée as noted above.

[200] He also wrote several plays.

[201] This would supply the ghost of Varus with a crushing answer to "Give me back my legions!"
in such form as "Why did you send me with them?"

[202] At another time there might have been a little gentle satire in this, but hardly then.

[203] It would seem, however, that the Scudérys were not originally Norman.

[204] Chateaubriand hardly counts in strictness.

[205] Although some say that almost every one of the numerous personae of the Astrée had a
live original.

[206] These books, having been constantly referred to in this fashion, offer a good many traps,
into some of which I have fallen in the past, and may have done so even now. For instance,
Körting rightly points out that almost every one calls this "La Jeune Alcidiane," whereas A.
is the hero, who bears his mother's name.

[207] I had made this remark before I knew that Körting had anticipated it.

[208] The more recent books which refer to him, and (I think) the British Museum Catalogue,
drop this addition. But he was admittedly of the Pontcarré family.

[209] Neither the original, however, nor this revision seems to have enjoyed the further honour
of a place in the British Museum. Other books of his which at least sound novelish were Darie,
Aristandre, Diotrèphe, Cléoreste (of which as well as of Palombe analyses may be found in Körting).
The last would seem to be the most interesting. But in the bibliography of the Bishop's writings
there are at least a dozen more titles of the same kind.

[210] Cf. the "self-precipitation" of Céladon. Perhaps no class of writers has ever practised
"imitation," in the wrong sense, more than these "heroic" romancers.

[211] I am glad to find the high authority of my friend Sir Sidney Colvin on my side here as
to the wider position--though he tells me that he was not, when he read Endimion, conscious
of any positive indebtedness on Keats' part.

[212] V. sup. p. 177, note 3.

[213] Gombauld seems to have been a devotee of both Queens: and commentators will have it that
this whole book is courtship as well as courtiership in disguise.

[214] A kind of intermediary nymph--an enchantress indeed--who has assisted and advised him
in his quests for the goddess.

[215] Émile Magne, Mme. de V., Paris, 1907.

[216] This sometimes causes positive obscurity as to fact. Thus it is impossible to make out
from M. Magne whether Hortense, in her last days, actually married the cousin with whom she
had been intimate in youth, or merely lived with him.

[217] By M. H. E. Chatenet, Paris, 1911.

[218] There is a little in the verse, most of which belongs to the "flying" kind so common
in the century.

[219] V. inf. upon it.

[220] His own admirable introduction to Perrault in the Clarendon Press series will, as far
as our subject is directly concerned, supply whatever a reader, within reason further curious,
can want: and his well-known rainbow series of Fairy Books will give infinite illustration.

[221] The longest of all, in the useful collection referred to in the text, are the Oiseau
Bleu and the charming Biche au Bois, each of which runs to nearly sixty pages. But both, though
very agreeable, are distinctly "sophisticated," and for that very reason useful as gangways,
as it were, from the simpler fairy tale to the complete novel.

[222] Enchanters, ogres, etc. "count" as fairies.

[223] Apuleius, who has a good deal of the "fairy" element in him, was naturally drawn upon
in this group. The Psyche indebtedness reappears, with frank acknowledgment, in Serpentin Vert.

[224] If Perrault really wrote this, the Muses, rewarding him elsewhere for the good things
he said in "The Quarrel," must have punished him here for the silly ones. It has, in fact,
most of the faults which neo-classicism attributed to its opposite.

[225] For a spoiling of this delightful story v. inf. on the Cabinet.

[226] Its full title, "ou Collection Choisie des C. des F. et autres Contes Merveilleux," should
in justice be remembered, when one feels inclined to grumble at some of the contents.

[227] This indeed was the case, in one or other kind of longer fiction writing, with most of
the authors to be mentioned. The total of this in the French eighteenth century was enormous.

[228] She is even preceded by a Mme. de Murat, a friend of Mme. de Parabère, but a respectable
fairy-tale writer. It does not seem necessary, according to the plan of this book, to give
many particulars about these writers; for it is their writings, not themselves, that our subject
regards. The curious may be referred to Walckenaer on the Fairy Tale in general, and Honoré
Bonhomme on the Cabinet in particular, as well as (v. inf.) to the thirty-seventh volume of
the collection itself.

[229] There is sometimes alliance and sometimes jealousy on this subject. In one tale the "Comte
de Gabalis" is solemnly "had up," tried, and condemned as an impostor.

[230] Ricdin-Ricdon, one of those which pass between Coeur de Lion and Blondel, is of the same
kind, is also good, and is longer.

[231] She seems, however (see vol. 37 as above), to have been a real person.

[232] The would-be anonymous compiler (he was really Gueulette, on whom v. inf.) of this and
the other collections now to be noticed, when acknowledging his sufficiently evident supercherie
and some of his indebtednesses (e.g. to Straparola), defends this on Edgeworthian principles.
But though it is quite true that a healthy curiosity as to such things may be aroused by tales,
it should be left to satisfy itself, not forestalled and spoilt and stunted by immediate information.

[233] The once very popular Tales of the Genii (v. inf.) which are often referred to by Scott
and other men of his generation, seem to have dropped out of notice comparatively. We shall
meet them here in French.

[234] The late Mr. Henley was at one time much interested in this point, and consulted me about
it. But I could tell him nothing; and I do not know whether he ever satisfied himself on the
subject. Lesage is said (though I am not sure that the evidence goes beyond on dit) to have
revised the work of Pétis de La Croix in the Days; and some of his own certainly corresponds to it.

[235] Or, as it was once put, with easy epigram, when the artificial fairy tale is not dreadfully
improper it is apt to be dreadfully proper.

[236] Nothing suits the entire group better than the reply of the ferocious and sleepless but
not unintelligent Sultan Hudgiadge, in the Nouveaux Contes Orientaux, when his little benefactress
Moradbak says that she will have the honour to-morrow of telling him a histoire Mongole. "Le
pays n'y fait rien," says he. And it doesn't.

[237] All of them, be it remembered, the work of Gueulette (v. inf.).

[238] The recently recovered "episodes" of this are rather more like the Cabinet stories than
Vathek itself; and perhaps a sense of this may have been part of the reason why Beckford never
published them.

[239] He came to ask, or rather demand, Zibeline's hand for his master: and the fairy made
his magnificence appear rags and rubbish.

[240] Mr. Toots's "I'm a-a-fraid you must have got very wet." When Courtebotte returns from
his expedition, across six months of snow, to the Ice Mountain on the top of which rests Zibeline's
heart, "many thousand persons" ask him, "Vous avez donc eu bien froid?"

[241] She is also said to have been a "love-child" of no less a father than Prince Eugene.

[242] Anybody who is curious as to this should look up the matter, as may be done most conveniently
in an excursus of Napier's edition, where my "friend of" [more than] "forty years," the late
Mr. Mowbray Morris, in a note to his own admirable one-volume "Globe" issue, thought that Macaulay
was "proved to be absolutely right." Morris, though his published and signed writings were
few, and though he pushed to its very furthest the hatred of personal advertisement natural
to most English "gentlemen of the press," was a man of the world and of letters in most unusual
combination; of a true Augustan taste both in criticism and in composition; of wit and of savoir
vivre such as few possess. But, like all men who are good for anything, he had some crazes:
and one of them was Macaulay. I own that I do not think all the honours were on T. B. M.'s
side in this mellay: but this is not the place to reason out the matter. What is quite certain
is that in this long-winded and mostly trivial performance there is a great deal of intended,
or at least suggested, political satire. But Johnson, though he might well think little of
Titi, need not have despised the whole Cabinet (or as he calls it, perhaps using the real title
of another issue, Bibliothèque), and would not on another occasion. Indeed the diary-notes
in which the thing occurs are too much in shorthand to be trustworthy texts.

[243] Pierre François Godard de Beauchamps seems to have been another fair example of the half-scholarly
bookmakers of the eighteenth century. He wrote a few light plays and some serious Recherches
sur les Théâtres de France which are said to have merit. He translated the late and coxcombical
but not uninteresting Greek prose romance of Hysminias and Hysmine, as well as that painful
verse-novel, the Rhodanthe and Dosicles of Theodoras Prodromus: and he composed, under a pseudonym,
of course, a naughty Histoire du Prince Apprius to match his good Funestine. The contrasted
ways and works of such bookmakers at various times would make a not uninteresting essay of
the Hayward type.

[244] "Engageant," "Adresse," "Parlepeu," etc. The Avertissement de l'Auteur is possibly a
joke, but more probably an awkward and miss-fire supercherie revealing the usual ignorance
of the time as to matters mediaeval. "Alienore" (though it would be better without the final
e) is a pretty as well as historic form of one of the most beautiful and protean of girl's
names: but how did her father, a "seigneur anglais," come to be called "Rivalon Murmasson"?
And did they know much about Arabia Felix in Brittany when "Daniel Dremruz" reigned there between
A.D. 680 and 720? Gueulette himself was a barrister and Procureur-Substitut at the Châtelet.
He seems to have imitated Hamilton, to whom the editors of the Cabinet rather idly think him
"equal," though, inconsistently, they admit that Hamilton "stands alone" and Gueulette does
not. On the other hand, they charge Voltaire with actually "tracing" over Gueulette. ("Zadig
est calqué sur les Soirées Bretonnes.") This is again an exaggeration; but Gueulette had, undoubtedly,
a pleasant and exceedingly fertile fancy, and a good knack of narrative.

[245] The best perhaps is of a certain peppery Breton, Saint-Foix, who was successively a mousquetaire,
a lieutenant of cavalry, aide-de-camp to "Broglie the War-god," and a long-lived littérateur
in Paris. M. de Saint-Foix picked a quarrel in the foyer of the opera with an unknown country
gentleman, as it seemed, and "gave him a rendezvous." But the other party replied coolly that
it "was his custom" to be called on if people had business with him, and gave his address.
Saint-Foix goes next morning, and is received with the utmost politeness and asked to breakfast.
"That's not the question," says the indignant Breton. "Let us go out." "I never go out without
breakfasting; it is my custom," says the provincial, and does as he says, politely repeating
invitations from time to time to his fretting adversary. At last they do go out, to Saint-Foix's
great relief; but they pass a café, and it is once more the stranger's sacred custom to play
a game of chess or draughts after breakfast. The same thing happens with a "turn" in the Tuileries,
at which Saint-Foix does not fume quite so much, because it is on the way to the Champs Élysées,
where fighting is possible. The "turn" achieved, he himself proposes to adjourn there. "What
for?" says the stranger innocently. "What for? A pretty question pardieu! To fight, of course!
Have you forgotten it?" "Fight! Why, sir, what are you thinking of? What would people say of
me? A magistrate, a treasurer of France, put sword in hand? They would take us for a couple
of fools." Which argument being unanswerable, according to the etiquette of the time, Saint-Foix
leaves the dignitary--who himself takes good care to tell the story. It must be remembered--first
that no actual challenge had passed, merely an ambiguous demand for addresses; secondly, that
the treasurer, as the superior by far in rank, had a right to suppose himself known to his
inferiors; and thirdly, that to challenge a "magistrate" was in France equivalent to being,
in the words of a lampoon quoted by Macaulay, "'Gainst ladies and bishops excessively valiant"
in England.

[246] Although there is a good deal of merit in some of these tales, none of them approaches
the charming Diable Amoureux which Cazotte produced in 1772, twenty years before his famous
and tragical death after once escaping the Revolutionary fangs. This little story, which is
at least as much of a fairy tale as many things "cabinetted," would be nearly perfect if Cazotte
had not unluckily botched it with a double ending, neither of the actual closes being quite
satisfactory. If, in one of them, he had had the pluck to stop at the outcry of the succubus
Biondetta when she has at last attained her object,

    "Je suis le diable! mon cher Alvare, je suis le diable!"

and let the rest be "wrop in mystery," it would probably have been the best way. But the bulk
of the book is beyond improvement: and there is a fluid grace about the autobiographical récit
which is very rare indeed, at least in French, except in the unfortunate Gérard de Nerval,
who was akin to Cazotte in many ways, and actually edited him. A very carping critic may object
to the not obvious nor afterwards explained interposition of a pretty little spaniel between
the original diabolic avatar of the hideous camel's head and the subsequent incarnation of
the beautiful Biondetto-Biondetta; especially as the later employment of another dog, to prevent
Alvare's succumbing to temptation earlier than he did, is confusing. But this would be "seeking
a knot in a reed." Perhaps the greatest merit of the story, next to the pure tale-telling charm
above noted, is the singular taste and skill with which Biondetta, except for her repugnance
to the marriage ceremony, is prevented from showing the slightest diabolic character during
her long cohabitation with Alvare, and her very "comingnesses" are arranged so as to give the
idea, not in the least of a temptress, but of an extra-innocent but quite natural ingénue.
Monk Lewis, of course, knew Cazotte, but he has coarsened his original woefully. It may perhaps
be added that the first illustrations, reproduced in Gérard's edition as curiosities, are such
in the highest degree. They are ushered with an ironic Preface: and they sometimes make one
rub one's eyes and wonder whether Futurism and Cubism are not, like so many other things, merely
recooked cabbage.

CHAPTER IX

THE SEVENTEENTH-CENTURY NOVEL--II

From "Francion" to "La Princesse de Clèves"--Anthony Hamilton[247]

[Sidenote: The material of the chapter.]

Justice has, it is hoped, been done to the great classes of fictitious work which, during the
seventeenth century, made fiction, as such, popular with high and of low in France. But it
is one of the not very numerous safe generalisations or inductions which may be fished out
from the wide and treacherous Syrtes of the history of literature, that it is not as a rule
from "classes" that the best work comes; and that, when it does so come, it generally represents
a sort of outside and uncovenanted element or constituent of the class. We have, unfortunately,
lost the Greek epic, as a class; but we know enough about it, with its few specimens, such
as Apollonius Rhodius earlier and Nonnus later, to warn us that, if we had more, we should
find Homer not merely better, but different, and this though probably every practitioner was
at least trying to imitate or surpass Homer. Dante stands in no class at all, nor does Milton,
nor does Shelley; and though Shakespeare indulgently permits himself to be classed as an "Elizabethan
dramatist," what strikes true critics most is again hardly more his "betterness" than his difference.
The very astonishment with which we sometimes say of Webster, Dekker, Middleton, that they
come near Shakespeare, is not due, as foolish people say, to any only less foolish idolatry,
but to a true critical surprise at the approximation of things usually so very distinct.

The examples in higher forms of literature just chosen for comparison do not, of course, show
any wish in the chooser to even any French seventeenth-century novelist with Homer or Shakespeare,
with Dante or Milton or Shelley. But the work noticed in the last chapter certainly includes
nothing of strong idiosyncrasy. In other books scattered, in point of time of production, over
great part of the period, such idiosyncrasy is to be found, though in very various measure.
Now, idiosyncrasy is, if not the only difference or property, the inseparable accident of all
great literature, and it may exist where literature is not exactly great. Moreover, like other
abysses, it calls to, and calls into existence, yet more abysses of its own kind or not-kind;
while school- and class-work, however good, can never produce anything but more class- and
school-work, except by exciting the always dubious and sometimes very dangerous desire "to
be different." The instances of this idiosyncrasy with which we shall now deal are the Francion
of Charles Sorel; the Roman Comique of Paul Scarron; the Roman Bourgeois of Antoine Furetière;
the Voyages, as they are commonly called (though the proper title is different[248]), à la
Lune et au Soleil, of Cyrano de Bergerac, and the Princesse de Clèves of Mme. de La Fayette;
while last of all will come the remarkable figure of Anthony Hamilton, less "single-speech"[249]
than the others and than his namesake later, but possessor of greater genius than any.

[Sidenote: Sorel and Francion.]

The present writer has long ago been found fault with for paying too much attention to Francion,
and he may possibly (if any one thinks it worth while) be found fault with again for placing
it here. But he does so from no mere childish desire to persist in some rebuked naughtiness,
but from a sincere belief in the possession by the book of some historical importance. Any
one who, on Arnoldian principles, declines to take the historic estimate into account at all,
is, on those principles, justified in neglecting it altogether; whether, on the other hand,
such neglect does not justify a suspicion of the soundness of the principles themselves, is
another question. Charles Sorel, historiographer of France, was a very voluminous and usually
a very dull writer. His voluminousness, though beside the enormous compositions of the last
chapter it is but a small thing, is not absent from Francion, nor is his dulness. Probably
few people have read the book through, and I am not going to recommend anybody to do so. But
the author does to some extent deserve the cruel praise of being "dull in a new way" (or at
least of being evidently in quest of a new way to be dull in), as Johnson wrongfully said of
Gray. His book is not a direct imitation of any one thing, though an attempt to adapt the Spanish
picaresque style to French realities and fantasies is obvious enough, as it is likewise in
Scarron and others. But this is mixed with all sorts of other adumbrations, if not wholly original,
yet showing that quest of originality which has been commended. It is an almost impossible
book to analyse, either in short or long measure. The hero wanders about France, and has all
sorts of adventures, the recounting of which is not without touches of Rabelais, of the Moyen
de Parvenir, perhaps of the rising fancies about the occult, which generated Rosicrucianism
and "astral spirits" and the rest of it--a whole farrago, in short, of matters decent and indecent,
congruous seldom and incongruous often. It is not like Sterne, because it is dull, and at the
same time quasi-romantic; while "sensibility" had not come in, though we shall see it do so
within the limits of this chapter. It has a resemblance, though not very much of one, to the
rather later work of Cyrano. But it is most like two English novels of far higher merit which
were not to appear for a century or a century and a half--Amory's John Buncle and Graves's
Spiritual Quixote. As it is well to mention things together without the danger of misleading
those who run as they read, and mind the running rather than the reading, let me observe that
the liveliest part of Francion is duller than the dullest of Buncle, and duller still than
the least lively thing in Graves. The points of resemblance are in pillar-to-postness, in the
endeavour (here almost entirely a failure, but still an endeavour) to combine fancy with realism,
and above all in freedom from following the rules of any "school." Realism in the good sense
and originality were the two things that the novel had to achieve. Sorel missed the first and
only achieved a sort of "distanced" position in the second. But he tried--or groped--for both.

[Sidenote: The Berger Extravagant and Polyandre.]

I am bound to say that in Sorel's other chief works of fiction, the Berger Extravagant and
Polyandre, I find the same curious mixture of qualities which have made me more lenient than
most critics to Francion. And I do not think it unfair to add that they also incline me still
more to think that there was perhaps a little of the Pereant qui ante nos feeling in Furetière's
attack (v. inf. p. 288). Neither could possibly be called by any sane judge a good book, and
both display the uncritical character,[250] the "pillar-to-postness," the marine-store and
almost rubbish-heap promiscuity, of the more famous book. Like it, they are much too big.[251]
But the Berger Extravagant, in applying (very early) the Don Quixote method, as far as Sorel
could manage it, to the Astrée, is sometimes amusing and by no means always unjust. Polyandre
is, in part, by no means unlike an awkward first draft of a Roman Bourgeois. The scene in the
former, where Lysis--the Extravagant Shepherd and the Don Quixote of the piece,--making an
all-night sitting over a poem in honour of his mistress Charité (the Dulcinea), disturbs the
unfortunate Clarimond--a sort of "bachelor," the sensible man of the book, and a would-be reformer
of Lysis--by constant demands for a rhyme[252] or an epithet, is not bad. The victim revenges
himself by giving the most ludicrous words he can think of, which Lysis duly works in, and
at last allows Clarimond to go to sleep. But he is quickly waked by the poet running about
and shouting, "I've got it! I've found it. The finest reprise [= refrain] ever made!" And in
Polyandre there is a sentence (not the only one by many) which not only gives a point de repère
of an interesting kind in itself, but marks the beginning of the "farrago libelli moderni":
"Ils ont des mets qu'ils nomment des bisques; je doute si c'est potage ou fricassée."

Here we have (1) Evidence that Sorel was a man of observation, and took an interest in really
interesting things.

(2) A date for the appearance, or the coming into fashion, of an important dish.

(3) An instance of the furnishing of fiction with something more than conventional adventure
on the one hand, and conventional harangues or descriptions on the other.

(4) An interesting literary parallel; for here is the libelled "Charroselles" (v. inf. p. 288)
two centuries beforehand, feeling a doubt, exactly similar to Thackeray's, as to whether a
bouillabaisse should be called soup or broth, brew or stew. Those who understand the art and
pastime of "book-fishing" will not go away with empty baskets from either of these neglected ponds.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: Scarron and the Roman Comique.]

Almost as different a person as can possibly be conceived from Sorel was Paul Scarron, Abbé,
"Invalid to the Queen," husband of the future Mme. de Maintenon, author of burlesques which
did him no particular honour, of plays which, if not bad, were never first rate, of witticisms
innumerable, most of which have perished, and of other things, besides being a hero of some
facts and more legends; but author also of one book in our own subject of much intrinsic and
more historical interest, and original also of passages in later books more interesting still
to all good wits. Not a lucky man in life (except for the possession of a lively wit and an
imperturbable temper), he was never rich, and he suffered long and terribly from disease--one
of the main subjects of his legend, but, after all discussions and carpings, looking most like
rheumatoid arthritis, one of the most painful and incurable of ailments. But Scarron was, and
has been since, by no means unlucky in literature. He had, though of course not an unvaried,
a great popularity in a troubled and unscrupulous time: and long after his death two of the
foremost novelists of his country selected him for honourable treatment of curiously different
kinds. Somehow or other the introduction of men of letters of old time into modern books has
not been usually very fortunate, except in the hands of Thackeray and a very few more. Among
these latter instances may certainly be ranked the pleasant picture of Scarron's house, and
of the attention paid to him by the as yet unmarried Françoise d'Aubigné, in Dumas's Vingt
Ans Après. Nor is it easy to think of any literary following that, while no doubt bettering,
abstains so completely from robbing, insulting, or obscuring its model as does Gautier's Capitaine
Fracasse.

It is, however, with this pleasant book itself that we are concerned. Here again, of course,
the picaresque model comes in, and there is a good deal of directly borrowed matter. But a
much greater talent, and especially a much more acute and critical wit than Sorel's, brings
to that scheme the practical-artistic French gift, the application of which to the novel is,
in fact, the subject of this whole chapter. Not unkindly judges have, it is true, pronounced
it not very amusing; and an uncritical comparer may find it injured by Gautier's book. The
older novel has, indeed, nothing of the magnificent style of the overture of this latter. Le
Château de la Misère is one of the finest things of the kind in French; for exciting incident
there is no better duel in literature than that of Sigognac and Lampourde; and the delicate
pastel-like costumes and manners and love-making of Gautier's longest and most ambitious romance
are not to be expected in the rough "rhyparography"[253] of the seventeenth century. But in
itself the Roman Comique is no small performance, and historically it is almost great. We have
in it, indeed, got entirely out of the pure romance; but we have also got out of the fatrasie--the
mingle-mangle of story, jargon, nonsense, and what not,--out of the mere tale of adventure,
out of the mere tale of grivoiserie. We have borrowed the comic dramatist's mirror--the "Muses'
Looking-glass"--and are holding it up to nature without the intervention of the conventionalities
of the stage. The company to which we are introduced is, no doubt, pursuing a somewhat artificial
vocation; but it is pursuing it in the way of real life, as many live men and women have pursued
it. The mask itself may be of their trade and class; but it is taken off them, and they are
not merely personae, they are persons.

To re-read the Roman Comique just after reading the Grand Cyrus came into the present plan
partly by design and partly by accident; but I had not fully anticipated the advantage of doing
so. The contrast of the two, and the general relation between them could, indeed, escape no
one; but an interval of a great many years since the last reading of Scarron's work had not
unnaturally caused forgetfulness of the deliberate and minute manner in which he himself points
that contrast, and even now and then satirises the Cyrus by name. The system of inset Histoires,[254]
beginning with the well-told if borrowed story of Don Carlos of Aragon and his "Invisible Mistress,"
is, indeed, hardly a contrast except in point of the respective lengths of the digressions,
nor does it seem to be meant as a parody. It has been said that this "inset" system, whether
borrowed from the episodes of the ancients or descended from the constant divagations of the
mediaeval romances, is very old, and proved itself uncommonly tenacious of life. But the difference
between the opening of the two books can hardly have been other than intentional on the part
of the later writer; and it is a very memorable one, showing nothing less than the difference
between romance and novel, between academic generalities and "realist" particularism, and between
not a few other pairs of opposites. It has been fully allowed that the overture of the Grand
Cyrus is by no means devoid of action, even of bustle, and that it is well done of its kind.
But that kind is strongly marked in the very fact that there is a sort of faintness in it.
The burning of Sinope, the distant vessel, the street-fighting that follows, are what may be
called "cartoonish"--large washes of pale colour. The talk, such as there is, is stage-talk
of the pseudo-grand style. It is curious that Scarron himself speaks of the Cyrus as being
the most "furnitured" romance, le roman le plus meublé, that he knows. To a modern eye the
interiors are anything but distinct, despite the elaborate ecphrases, some of which have been
quoted.[255]

Now turn to the opening passage of the Roman Comique, which strikes the new note most sharply.
It is rather well known, probably even to some who have not read the original or Tom Brown's
congenial translation of it; for it has been largely laid under contribution by the innumerable
writers about a much greater person than Scarron, Molière. The experiences of the Illustre
Théâtre were a little later, and apparently not so sordid as those of the company of which
Scarron constituted himself historiographer; but they cannot have been very dissimilar in general
kind, and many of the characteristics, such as the assumption now of fantastic names, "Le Destin,"
"La Rancune," etc., now of rococo-romantic ones, such as "Mademoiselle de l'Étoile," remained
long unaltered. But perhaps a fresh translation may be attempted, and the attempt permitted.
For though the piece, of course, has recent Spanish and even older Italian examples of a kind,
still the change in what may be called "particular universality" is remarkable.

     [Sidenote: The opening scene of this.]

     The sun had finished more than half his course, and his
     chariot, having reached the slope of the world, was running
     quicker than he wished. If his horses had chosen to avail
     themselves of the drop of the road, they would have got
     through what remained of the day in less than half or
     quarter of an hour; but instead of pulling at full strength,
     they merely amused themselves by curvetting, as they drew in
     a salt air, which told them the sea, wherein men say their
     master goes to bed every night, was close at hand. To speak
     more like a man of this world, and more intelligibly, it was
     between five and six o'clock, when a cart came into the
     market-place of Le Mans. This cart was drawn by four very
     lean oxen, with, for leader, a brood-mare, whose foal
     scampered about round the cart, like a silly little thing as
     it was. The cart was full of boxes and trunks, and of great
     bundles of painted canvas, which made a sort of pyramid, on
     the top of which appeared a damsel, dressed partly as for
     town, partly for country. By the side of the cart walked a
     young man, as ill-dressed as he was good-looking. He had on
     his face a great patch, which covered one eye and half his
     cheek, and he carried a large fowling-piece on his shoulder.
     With this he had slain divers magpies, jays, and crows; and
     they made a sort of bandoleer round him, from the bottom
     whereof hung a pullet and a gosling, looking very like the
     result of a plundering expedition. Instead of a hat he had
     only a night-cap, with garters of divers colours twisted
     round it, which headgear looked like a very unfinished
     sketch of a turban. His coat was a jacket of grey stuff,
     girt with a strap, which served also as a sword-belt, the
     sword being so long that it wanted a fork to draw it neatly
     for use. He wore breeches trussed, with stockings attached
     to them, as actors do when they play an ancient hero; and
     he had, instead of shoes, buskins of a classical pattern,
     muddied up to the ankle. An old man, more ordinarily but
     still very ill-dressed, walked beside him. He carried on his
     shoulders a bass-viol, and as he stooped a little in
     walking, one might, at a distance, have taken him for a
     large tortoise walking on its hind legs. Some critic may
     perhaps murmur at this comparison; but I am speaking of the
     big tortoises they have in the Indies, and besides I use it
     at my own risk. Let us return to our caravan.

     It passed in front of the tennis-court called the Doe, at
     the door of which were gathered a number of the topping
     citizens of the town. The novel appearance of the conveyance
     and team, and the noise of the mob who had gathered round
     the cart, induced these honourable burgomasters to cast an
     eye upon the strangers; and among others a Deputy-Provost
     named La Rappinière came up, accosted them, and, with the
     authority of a magistrate, asked who they were. The young
     man of whom I have just spoken replied, and without touching
     his turban (inasmuch as with one of his hands he held his
     gun and with the other the hilt of his sword, lest it should
     get between his legs) told the Provost that they were French
     by birth, actors by profession, that his stage-name was Le
     Destin, that of his old comrade La Rancune, and that of the
     lady who was perched like a hen on the top of their baggage,
     La Caverne. This odd name made some of the company laugh;
     whereat the young actor added that it ought not to seem
     stranger to men with their wits about them than "La
     Montagne," "La Vallée," "La Rose," or "L'Épine." The talk
     was interrupted by certain sounds of blows and oaths which
     were heard from the front of the cart. It was the
     tennis-court attendant, who had struck the carter without
     warning, because the oxen and the mare were making too free
     with a heap of hay which lay before the door. The row was
     stopped, and the mistress of the court, who was fonder of
     plays than of sermons or vespers, gave leave, with a
     generosity unheard of in her kind, to the carter to bait his
     beasts to their fill. He accepted her offer, and, while the
     beasts ate, the author rested for a time, and set to work to
     think what he should say in the next chapter.

The sally in the last sentence, with the other about the tortoise, and the mock solemnity of
the opening, illustrate two special characteristics, which will be noticed below, and which
may be taken in each case as a sort of revulsion from, or parody of, the solemn ways of the
regular romance. There may be even a special reference to the "Phébus" the technical name or
nickname of the "high language" in these repeated burlesque introductions of the sun. And the
almost pert flings and cabrioles of the narrator form a still more obvious and direct Declaration
of Independence. But these are mere details, almost trivial compared with the striking contrast
of the whole presentation and faire of the piece, when taken together with most of the subjects
of the last chapter.

It may require a little, but it should not require much, knowledge of literary history to see
how modern this is; it should surely require none to see how vivid it is--how the sharpness
of an etching and the colour of a bold picture take the place of the shadowy "academies" of
previous French writers.[256] There may be a very little exaggeration even here--in other parts
of the book there is certainly some--and Scarron never could forget his tendency to that form
of exaggeration which is called burlesque. But the stuff and substance of the piece is reality.

An important item of the same change is to be found in the management of the insets, or some
of them. One of the longest and most important is the autobiographical history of Le Destin
or Destin (the article is often dropped), the tall young man with the patch on his face. But
this is not thrust bodily into the other body of the story, Cyrus-fashion; it is alternated
with the passages of that story itself, and that in a comparatively natural manner--night or
some startling accident interrupting it; while how even courtiers could find breath to tell,
or patience and time to hear, some of the interludes of the Cyrus and its fellows is altogether
past comprehension. There is some coarseness in Scarron--he would not be a comic writer of
the seventeenth century if there were none. Not very long after the beginning the tale is interrupted
by a long account of an unseemly practical joke which surely could amuse no mortal after a
certain stage of schoolboyhood. But there is little or no positive indecency: the book contrasts
not more remarkably with the Aristophanic indulgence of the sixteenth century than with the
sniggering suggestiveness of the eighteenth. Some remnants of the Heroic convention (which,
after all, did to a great extent reflect the actual manners of the time) remain, such as the
obligatory "compliment." Le Destin is ready to hang himself because, at his first meeting with
the beautiful Léonore, his shyness prevents his getting a proper "compliment" out. On the other
hand, the demand for esprit, which was confined in the Heroics to a few privileged characters,
now becomes almost universal. There are tricks, but fairly novel tricks--affectations like
"I don't know what they did next" and the others noted above: while the famous rhetorical beginnings
of chapters appear not only at the very outset, but at the opening of the second volume, "Le
Soleil donnant aplomb sur les antipodes,"--things which a century later Fielding, and two centuries
later Dickens, did not disdain to imitate.

Scarron did not live to finish the book, and the third part or volume, which was tinkered--still
more the Suite, which was added--by somebody else, are very inferior. The somewhat unfavourable
opinions referred to above may be partly based on the undoubted fact that the story is rather
formless; that its most important machinery is dependent, after all, on the old rapt or abduction,
the heroines of which are Mademoiselle de l'Étoile (nominally Le Destin's sister, really his
love, and at the end his wife) and Angélique, daughter of La Caverne, who is provided with
a lover and husband of 12,000 (livres) a year in the person of Léandre, one of the stock theatrical
names, professedly "valet" to Le Destin, but really a country gentleman's son. Thus everybody
is somebody else, again in the old way. Another, and to some tastes a more serious, blot may
be found in the everlasting practical jokes of the knock-about kind, inflicted on the unfortunate
Ragotin, a sort of amateur member of the troupe. But again these "low jinks" were an obvious
reaction from (just as the ceremonies were followings of) the solemnity of the Heroics; and
they continued to be popular for nearly two hundred years, as English readers full well do
know. Nevertheless these defects merely accompany--they do not mar or still less destroy--the
striking characteristics of progress which appear with them, and which, without any elaborate
abstract of the book, have been set forth somewhat carefully in the preceding pages. Above
all, there is a real and considerable attempt at character, a trifle typy and stagy perhaps,
but still aiming at something better; and the older nouvelle-fashion is not merely drawn upon,
but improved upon, for curious anecdotes, striking situations, effective names. Under the latter
heads it is noteworthy that Gautier simply "lifted" the name Sigognac from Scarron, though
he attached it to a very different personage; and that Dumas got, from the same source, the
startling incident of Aramis suddenly descending on the crupper of D'Artagnan's horse. The
jokes may, of course, amuse or not different persons, and even different moods of the same
person; the practical ones, as has been hinted, may pall, even when they are not merely vulgar.
Practical joking had a long hold of literature, as of life; and it would be sanguine to think
that it is dead. Izaak Walton, a curious contemporary--"disparate," as the French say, of Scarron,
would not quite have liked the quarrel between the dying inn-keeper, who insists on being buried
in his oldest sheet, full of holes and stains, and his wife, who asks him, from a sense rather
of decency than of affection, how he can possibly think of appearing thus clad in the Valley
of Jehoshaphat? But there is something in the book for many tastes, and a good deal more for
the student of the history of the novel.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: Furetière and the Roman Bourgeois.]

The couplet-contrast of the Comic Romance of Scarron and the "Bourgeois" Romance of Furetière[257]
is one of the most curious among the minor phenomena of literary history; but it repeats itself
in that history so often that it becomes, by accumulation, hardly minor. There is a vast difference
between Furetière and Miss Austen, and a still vaster one between Scarron and Scott; but the
two French books stand to each other, on however much lower a step of the stair, very much
as Waverley stands to Pride and Prejudice, and they carry on a common revulsion against their
forerunners and a common quest for newer and better developments. The Roman Bourgeois, indeed,
is more definitely, more explicitly, and in further ways of exodus, a departure from the subjects
and treatment of most of the books noticed in the last chapter. It is true that its author
attributes to the reading of the regular romances the conversion of his pretty idiot Javotte
from a mere idiot to something that can, at any rate, hold her own in conversation, and take
an interest in life.[258] But he also adds the consequence of her elopement, without apparently
any prospect of marriage, but with an accomplished gentleman who has helped her to esprit by
introducing her to those very same romances; and he has numerous distinct girds at his predecessors,
including one at the multiplied abductions of Mandane herself. Moreover his inset tale L'Amour
Égaré (itself something of a parody), which contains most of the "key"-matter, includes a satirical
account (not uncomplimentary to her intellectual, but exceedingly so to her physical characteristics)
of "Sapho" herself. For after declining to give a full description of poor Madeleine, for fear
of disgusting his readers, he tells us, in mentioning the extravagant compliments addressed
to her in verse, that she only resembled the Sun in having a complexion yellowed by jaundice;
the Moon in being freckled; and the Dawn in having a red tip to her nose!

But this last ill-mannered particularity illustrates the character, and in its way the value,
of the whole book. A romance, or indeed in the proper sense a story--that is to say, one story,--it
certainly is not: the author admits the fact frankly, not to say boisterously, and his title
seems to have been definitely suggested by Scarron's. The two parts have absolutely no connection
with one another, except that a single personage, who has played a very subordinate part in
the first, plays a prominent but entirely different one in the second. This second is wholly
occupied by legal matters (Furetière had been "bred to the law"), and the humours and amours
of a certain female litigant, Collantine, to whom Racine and Wycherley owe something, with
the unlucky author "Charroselles"[259] and a subordinate judge, Belastre, who has been pitch-forked
by interest into a place which he finally loses by his utter incapacity and misconduct. To
understand it requires even more knowledge of old French law terms generally than parts of
Balzac do of specially commercial and financial lingo.

This "specialising" of the novel is perhaps of more importance than interest; but interest
itself may be found in the First Part, where there is, if not much, rather more of a story,
some positive character-drawing, a fair amount of smart phrase, and a great deal of lively
painting of manners. There is still a good deal of law, to which profession most of the male
characters belong, but there are plentiful compensations.

As far as there is any real story or history, it is that of two girls, both of the legal bourgeoisie
by rank. The prettier, Javotte, has been briefly described above. She is the daughter of a
rich attorney, and has, before her emancipation and elopement, two suitors, both advocates;
the one, Nicodème, young, handsome, well dressed, and a great flirt, but feather-headed; the
other, Bedout, a middle-aged sloven, collector, and at the same time miser, but very well off.
The second heroine, Lucrèce, is also handsome, though rather less so than Javotte: but she
has plenty of wits. She is, however, in an unfortunate position, being an orphan with no fortune,
and living with an uncle and aunt, the latter of whom has a passion for gaming, and keeps open
house for it, so that Lucrèce sees rather undesirable society. Despite her wits, she falls
a victim to a rascally marquis, who first gives her a written promise of marriage, and afterwards,
by one of the dirtiest tricks ever imagined by a novelist--a trick which, strange to say, the
present writer does not remember to have seen in any other book, obvious though it is--steals
it.[260] Fortunately for her, Nicodème, who is of her acquaintance, and a general lover, has
also given her, though not in earnest and for no serious "consideration," a similar promise:
and by the help of a busybody legal friend she gets 2000 crowns out of him to prevent an action
for breach. And, finally, Bedout, after displacing the unlucky Nicodème (thus left doubly in
the cold), and being himself thrown over by Javotte's elopement, takes to wife, being induced
to do so by a cousin, Lucrèce herself, in blissful ignorance (which is never removed) of her
past. The cousin, Laurence, has also been the link of these parts of the tale with an episode
of précieuse society in which the above-mentioned inset is told; a fourth feminine character,
Hyppolyte (vice Philipote), of some individuality, is introduced; Javotte makes a greater fool
of herself than ever; and her future seducer, Pancrace, makes his appearance.

Thus reduced to "argument" form, the story may seem even more modern than it really is, and
the censures, apologies, etc., put forward above may appear rather unjust. But few people will
continue to think so after reading the book. The materials, especially with the "trimmings"
to be mentioned presently, would have made a very good novel of the completest kind. But, once
more, the time had not come, though Furetière was, however unconsciously, doing his best to
bring it on. One fault, not quite so easy to define as to feel, is prominent, and continued
to be so in all the best novels, or parts of novels, till nearly the middle of the nineteenth
century. There is far too much mere narration--the things being not smartly brought before
the mind's eye as being done, and to the mind's ear as being said, but recounted, sometimes
not even as present things, but as things that have been said or done already. This gives a
flatness, which is further increased by the habit of not breaking up even the conversation
into fresh paragraphs and lines, but running the whole on in solid page-blocks for several
pages together. Yet even if this mechanical mistake were as mechanically redressed,[261] the
original fault would remain and others would still appear. A scene between Javotte and Lucrèce,
to give one instance only, would enliven the book enormously; while, on the other hand, we
could very well spare one of the few passages in which Nicodème is allowed to be more than
the subject of a récit, and which partakes of the knock-about character so long popular, the
young man and Javotte bumping each other's foreheads by an awkward slip in saluting, after
which he first upsets a piece of porcelain and then drags a mirror down upon himself. There
is "action" enough here; while, on the other hand, the important and promising situations of
the two promises to Lucrèce, and the stealing by the Marquis of his, are left in the flattest
fashion of "recount." But it was very long indeed before novelists understood this matter,
and as late as Hope's famous Anastasius the fault is present, apparently to the author's knowledge,
though he has not removed it.

To a reader of the book who does not know, or care to pay attention to, the history of the
matter, the opening of the Roman Bourgeois may seem to promise something quite free, or at
any rate much more free than is actually the case, from this fault. But, as we have seen, they
generally took some care of their openings, and Furetière availed himself of a custom possibly,
to present readers, especially those not of the Roman Church, possessing an air of oddity,
and therefore of freshness, which it certainly had not to those of his own day. This was the
curious fashion of quête or collection at church--not by a commonplace verger, or by respectable
churchwardens and sidesmen, but by the prettiest girl whom the curé could pitch upon, dressed
in her best, and lavishing smiles upon the congregation to induce them to give as lavishly,
and to enable her to make a "record" amount.

The original meeting of Nicodème and the fair Javotte takes place in this wise, and enables
the author to enlighten us further as to matters quite proper for novel treatment.[262] The
device of keeping gold and large silver pieces uppermost in the open "plate"; the counter-balancing
mischief of covering them with a handful of copper; the licensed habit, a rather dangerous
one surely, of taking "change" out of that plate, which enables the aspirant for the girl's
favour to clear away the obnoxious sous as change for a whole pistole--all this has a kind
of attraction for which you may search the more than myriad pages of Artamène without finding
it. The daughter of a citizen's family, in the French seventeenth century, was kept with a
strictness which perhaps explains a good deal in the conduct of an Agnes or an Isabelle in
comedy. She was almost always tied to her mother's apron-strings, and even an accepted lover
had to carry on his courtship under the very superfluous number of six eyes at least. But the
Church was misericordious. The custom of giving and receiving holy water could be improved
by the resources of amatory science; but this of the quête was, it would seem, still more full
of opportunity. Apparently (perhaps because in these city parishes the church was always close
by, and the whole proceedings public) the fair quêteuse was allowed to walk home alone; and
in this instance Nicodème, having ground-baited with his pistole, is permitted to accompany
Javotte Vollichon to her father's door--her extreme beauty making up for the equally extreme
silliness of her replies to his observations.

The possible objection that these things, fresh and interesting to us, were ordinary and banal
to them, would be a rather shallow one. The point is that, in previous fiction, circumstantial
verisimilitude of this kind had hardly been tried at all. So it is with the incident of Nicodème
sending a rabbit (supposed to be from his own estate, but really from the market--a joke not
peculiar to Paris, but specially favoured there), or losing at bowls a capon, to old Vollichon,
and on the strength of each inviting himself to dinner; the fresh girds at the extraordinary
and still not quite accountable plenty of marquises (Scarron, if I remember rightly, has the
verb se marquiser); and the contributory (or, as the ancients would have said, symbolic) dinners--as
it were, picnics at home--of bourgeois society at each other's houses, with not a few other
things. A curious plan of a fashion-review, with patterns for the benefit of ladies, is specially
noticeable at a period so early in the history of periodicals generally, and is one of the
not few points in which there is a certain resemblance between Furetière and Defoe.

It is in this daring to be quotidian and contemporary that his claim to a position in the history
of the novel mainly consists. Some might add a third audacity, that of being "middle-class."
Scarron had dealt with barn-mummers and innkeepers and some mere riff-raff; but he had included
not a few nobles, and had indulged in fighting and other "noble" subjects. There is no fighting
in Furetière, and his chief "noble" figure--the rascal who robbed Lucrèce of her virtue and
her keys--is the sole figure of his class, except Pancrace and the précieuse Angélique. This
is at once a practical protest against the common interpretation and extension of Aristotle's
prescription of "distinguished" subjects, and an unmistakable relinquishment of mere picaresque
squalor. Above all, it points the way in practice, indirectly perhaps but inevitably, to the
selection of subjects that the author really knows, and that he can treat with the small vivifying
details given by such knowledge, and by such knowledge alone. There is an advance in character,
an advance in "interior" description--the Vollichon family circle, the banter and the gambling
at Lucrèce's home, the humour of a précieuse meeting, etc. In fact, whatever be the defects[263]
in the book, it may almost be called an advance all round. A specimen of this, as of other
pioneer novels, may not be superfluous; it is the first conversation, after the collection,
between Nicodème and Javotte.

     [Sidenote: Nicodème takes Javotte home from church.]

     This new kind of gallantry [his removing the offensive
     copper coins as pretended "change" for his pistole] was
     noticed by Javotte, who was privately pleased with it, and
     really thought herself under an obligation to him.
     Wherefore, on their leaving the church, she allowed him to
     accost her with a compliment which he had been meditating
     all the time he was waiting for her. This chance favoured
     him much, for Javotte never went out without her mother, who
     kept her in such a strait fashion of living that she never
     allowed her to speak to a man either abroad or at home. Had
     it not been so, he would have had easy access to her; for as
     she was a solicitor's daughter and he was an advocate, they
     were in relations of close affinity and sympathy--such as
     allow as prompt acquaintance as that of a servant-maid with
     a valet-de-chambre.[264]

     As soon as the service was over and he could join her, he
     said, as though with the most delicate attention,
     "Mademoiselle, as far as I can judge, you cannot have failed
     to be lucky in your collection, being so deserving and so
     beautiful." "Alas! Sir," replied Javotte in the most
     ingenuous fashion, "you must excuse me. I have just been
     counting it up with the Father Sacristan, and I have only
     made 65 livres 5 sous. Now, Mademoiselle Henriette made 90
     livres a little time since; 'tis true she collected all
     through the forty hours'[265] service, and in a place where
     there was the finest Paradise ever seen." "When I spoke,"
     said Nicodème, "of the luck of your collection, I was not
     only speaking of the charity you got for the poor and the
     church; I meant as well what you gained for yourself." "Oh,
     Sir!" replied Javotte, "I assure you I gained nothing. There
     was not a farthing more than I told you; and besides, can
     you think I would butter my own bread[266] on such an
     occasion? 'Twould be a great sin even to think of it." "I
     was not speaking," said Nicodème, "of gold or silver. I only
     meant that nobody can have given you his alms without at the
     same time giving you his heart." "I don't know," quoth
     Javotte, "what you mean by hearts; I didn't see one in the
     plate." "I meant," added Nicodème, "that everybody before
     whom you stopped must, when he saw such beauty, have vowed
     to love and serve you, and have given you his heart. For my
     own part I could not possibly refuse you mine." Javotte
     answered him naïvely, "Well! Sir, if you gave it me I must
     have replied at once, 'God give it back to you.'"[267]
     "What!" cried Nicodème rather angrily, "can you jest with me
     when I am so much in earnest, and treat in such a way the
     most passionate of all your lovers?" Whereat Javotte blushed
     as she answered, "Sir, pray be careful how you speak. I am
     an honest girl. I have no lovers. Mamma has expressly
     forbidden me to have any." "I have said nothing to shock
     you," replied Nicodème. "My passion for you is perfectly
     honest and pure, and its end is only a lawful suit." "Then,
     Sir," answered Javotte, "you want to marry me? You must ask
     my papa and mamma for that; for indeed I do not know what
     they are going to give me when I marry." "We have not got
     quite so far yet," said Nicodème. "I must be assured
     beforehand of your esteem, and know that you have admitted
     me to the honour of being your servant." "Sir," said
     Javotte, "I am quite satisfied with being my own servant,
     and I know how to do everything I want."

Now this, of course, is not extraordinarily brilliant; but it is an early--a very early--beginning
of the right sort of thing--conversation of a natural kind transferred from the boards to the
book, sketches of character, touches of manners and of life generally, individual, national,
local. The cross-purposes of the almost idiotic ingénue and the philandering gallant are already
very well done; and if Javotte had been as clever as she was stupid she could hardly have set
forth the inwardness of French marriages more neatly than by the blunt reference to her dot,
or have at the same moment more thoroughly disconcerted Nicodème's regularly laid-out approaches
for a flirtation in form, with only a possible, but in any case distant, termination in anything
so prosaic as marriage.[268] The thing as a whole is, in familiar phrase, "all right" in kind
and in scheme. It requires some perfecting in detail; but it is in every reasonable sense perfectible.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: Cyrano de Bergerac and his Voyages.]

It has been possible to speak of one of the pioneer books mentioned in this chapter with more
allowance than most of the few critics and historians who have discussed or mentioned it have
given it, and to recommend the others, not uncritically but quite cheerfully. This satisfactory
state of things hardly persists when we reach what seems perhaps, to those who have never read
it, not the least considerable of the batch--the Voyage à la Lune of Cyrano de Bergerac, as
his name is in literary history, though he never called himself so.[269] Cyrano, though he
does not seem to have had a very fortunate life, and died young, yet was not all unblest, and
has since been rather blessed than banned. Even in his own day Boileau spoke of him with what,
in the "Bollevian" fashion, was comparative compliment--that is to say, he said that he did
not think Cyrano so bad as somebody else. But long afterwards, in the middle of the nineteenth
century, Gautier took him up among his Grotesques and embalmed him in the caressing and immortalising
amber of his marvellous style and treatment; while at the end of the same century one of the
chief living poets and playwrights of France made him the subject of a popular and really pathetic
drama. His Pedant Joué is not a stupid comedy, and had the honour of furnishing Molière with
some of that "property" which he was, quite rightly, in the habit of commandeering wherever
he found it. La Mort d'Agrippine is by no means the worst of that curious school of tragedy,
so like and so unlike to that of our own "University wits," which was partly exemplified and
then transcended by Corneille, and which some of us are abandoned enough to enjoy more as readers,
though as critics we may find more faults with it, than we find it possible to do with Racine.
But the Voyage à la Lune, as well as, though rather less than, its complementary dealing with
the Sun, has been praised with none of these allowances. On the contrary, it has had ascribed
to it the credit of having furnished, not scraps of dialogue or incident, but a solid suggestion
to an even greater than Molière--to Swift; remarkable intellectual and scientific anticipations
have been discovered in it, and in comparatively recent times versions of it have been published
to serve as proofs that Cyrano was actually a father[270] of French eighteenth-century philosophie--a
different thing, once more, from philosophy.

