THE
         CHURCH OF ENGLAND MAGAZINE.

                  UNDER THE
               SUPERINTENDENCE
                     OF
                  CLERGYMEN

                OF THE UNITED
              CHURCH OF ENGLAND
                     AND
                   IRELAND.

  "HER FOUNDATIONS ARE UPON THE HOLY HILLS."

               Vol. X. No. 263.
               JANUARY 9, 1841.
                 Price 1½d.

CONTENTS.

    THE CHRISTIAN'S OBLIGATION TO SEEK THE SPIRITUAL BENEFIT
        OF OTHERS                                                   17

    SACRED PHILOSOPHY.--CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE NATURAL THEOLOGY
        OF THE VEGETABLE KINGDOM                                    19

    THE SECURITY OF GOD'S PEOPLE: A SERMON                          25

    THE GLORY OF THE SAVIOUR'S TRANSFIGURATION                      29

    THE CABINET                                                     31

    POETRY.--LAYS OF PALESTINE                                      32

    MISCELLANEOUS                                                   32

THE CHRISTIAN'S OBLIGATION TO SEEK THE SPIRITUAL BENEFIT OF OTHERS.

By the Rev. Thomas Bissland, M.A.,
  Rector of Hartley Maudytt, Hants.

There are some hearts little, if at all, impressed by the solemn requirements of the Almighty;
so dead, in fact, to everything which relates not to the objects of time and sense, that they
are unaffected by the scenes of vice and of the misery which is its consequence, every where
presented to their notice. It is not until the mind is under the gracious influence of the
Spirit of God, that men feel any anxiety to stop the torrent of evil, and endeavour to become
the humble instruments of converting the sinner and saving his soul. Many, in fact, who feel
deeply interested in their neighbours' temporal comforts and prosperity, feel little anxious
to supply their spiritual wants; and to this may be traced the opposition which is not unfrequently
made, even by professing Christians, to institutions which have a direct tendency to improve
the moral and spiritual condition of the human race.

Now there are many reasons which induce a truly converted man to labour for the spiritual benefit
of others. First, there is the dishonour which men, in an unconverted state, cast upon God.
This feeling operated on the mind of the psalmist, when he exclaimed (Ps. cxix. 53), "Horror
hath taken hold of me, because of the wicked who forsake thy law." For when men forsake God's
law, they declare that they are little impressed with a sense of the divine majesty and infinite
goodness of the Almighty; that they are not anxious to know his will; that his threatenings
alarm them not; that his promises in no way affect their hearts; that, in fact, they are not
desirous of that favour which rests upon those only who walk in the path of his commandments.
The psalmist's zeal and jealousy for the glory of God were fully manifested by his anxiety
to erect a house, in some respects suitable for the divine worship; by his earnest expressions,
that the divine glory should be made known throughout the world, as when he exclaims "Tell
it out among the heathen, that the Lord reigneth;" and this holy desire rendered every action,
by which there was the most slight appearance of dishonour being cast upon Jehovah, abominable
in his sight. When he reflected on his own departure from the law of his God, on those acts
which had caused the enemies of the truth to blaspheme, he was indeed filled with horror. The
language uttered, when from the depths he supplicated the divine forgiveness, powerfully demonstrates
the agony of his soul--convinces us that his repentance was sincere, and that he was anxious
that in every action of his life he might for the future glorify that Being whose gracious
hand had conducted him through his earthly pilgrimage--whose favour had raised him to the throne
of Israel--the light of whose countenance had cheered him in many a dark and dreary hour--and
whose comforts had refreshed his soul, when in the multitude of the thoughts within him he
became dispirited and perplexed. The psalmist loved God, and on this account he was desirous
that he should be had in reverence of all his intelligent creatures. He loved God; he was seized
with horror when he beheld myriads uninfluenced by this principle, living in disobedience to
this first commandment.

Sin is too often viewed by us merely with respect to its baneful influence on the happiness
of society. It is condemned by us, and it is punished by us, not so much as it is the transgression
of the law of God, as it has a tendency to produce evil in the world. And hence there are many
offenders in God's sight who by their conduct cast dishonour upon his name, who yet maintain
a fair and respectable character when weighed in the world's balance, nay, even are regarded
with reverence and esteem. We punish the murderer, the thief, the robber, the perjured person.
It is right that we should do so. The welfare of society demands it. But do we punish the man
who lives in adultery, in drunkenness, in sensuality? Do we punish the man who is a swearer,
a gambler, a blasphemer, who habitually neglects the sanctuary of the Lord, and does his own
pleasure on the sabbath-day? Human laws take no cognizance of these crimes. They are, however,
as dishonourable to God as others which are punished by man. They are quite as detrimental
to man's best interests; and fearful must be the account rendered for their commission before
that equitable tribunal, where the children of men must answer for all their offences against
the majesty of heaven.

But there is a second reason why the true Christian will labour for the conversion of others,
namely, the reflection that the sinner is ensuring his own destruction while he is at enmity
against God; and this induced Jeremiah to exclaim (ix. How strong is the expression--"the slain."
The prophet knew full well the misery of transgressing God's law. Tremendous, indeed, is the
reflection, that the path of sin inevitably leads to the regions of darkness--those regions
where there is "weeping and gnashing of teeth," where "their worm dieth not, and the fire is
not quenched." Whence is it, then, that, without any apparent concern, we behold myriads of
immortal creatures fast hastening to these regions of destruction? Whence is it that there
is so much apathy, lukewarmness, and indifference to a brother's eternal welfare. Is it not
too often, perhaps, that there is a latent scepticism which induces us to disbelieve the solemn
declaration of the Omnipotent--even when he swears by himself--that every jot and tittle of
his threatenings shall be accomplished? Surely were it not for some such spirit, we should
never rest satisfied with the feeble efforts we may have made to lead the sinner back to his
offended God; we should esteem no sacrifice too great, whether of time, or influence, or money,
or talent, which could in any way promote a brother's spiritual welfare. But we are too apt
to forget, if not to disbelieve, the solemn declarations of the bible; and forgetfulness to
all practical results is as pernicious as downright infidelity. The man who forgets God is
as little influenced by his law as the fool, who in his heart says there is no God at all.
Now, this forgetfulness paralyzes our energies, damps our zeal, checks our benevolence. We
do not consider that sinners are heaping up wrath against the day of wrath; and, though they
may now enjoy an unhallowed prosperity, and now in an unbridled licentiousness derive happiness
from the indulgence of fleshly lusts, yet that these war against the soul, against its present
peace, and its ultimate felicity, and that ruin and destruction inevitably await them. Were
our spirit that of the psalmist, or that of the prophet referred to, our feelings would be
more lively, our endeavours to promote the good of mankind be more energetic. Looking not every
one to his own, but on his brothers' good, we should be anxious to direct their feet into the
way of peace. The apostle, indeed, appears to have been influenced by the same anxiety as the
psalmist and the prophet; for the glory of the Redeemer, as well as the eternal welfare of
their souls, was dear to his heart, and he could not refrain from weeping when he viewed the
dishonour cast upon his adorable Lord by these enemies of his cross; when he beheld them following
divers lusts and pleasures, even boasting of their recklessness of God's judgments; and when
he carried his thoughts forward to that day when the terrors of the Lord would fall on all
the children of disobedience, or those who neglected the great salvation. This spirit is, in
fact, no bad test whereby we may try the state of our hearts and affections. If we are really
desirous for the advancement of God's glory, and deeply interested in the welfare of our fellow-creatures,
our feelings will be very similar to those of the holy men of God referred to. We shall not
view, without the very deepest concern, that inattention which is everywhere paid to the solemn
requirements of the Almighty; we shall at least make the attempt to stop the sinner in his
career of guilt and folly, that his soul may be saved from destruction in the day of the Lord.

Melancholy is the reflection, indeed, that neither God's invitations on the one hand, nor his
threatenings on the other, appear to affect their hearts; they are neither constrained by love
nor fear. "Wide is the gate, and broad is the way that leadeth to destruction, and many there
be that go in thereat."

There was one that wept over the rebellion of man, and one infinitely greater than David, or
Jeremiah, or St. Paul--and that one was the ever-adorable Saviour; who, beholding the guilty
race of man altogether gone out of the way, descended from the mansions of glory, became a
partaker of human impurity, and opened through his blood a new and living way, whereby the
guilty sinner might return in peace to his God. Jesus wept at the grave of Lazarus, for Lazarus
was his friend; he sympathised deeply with Martha and Mary, for he loved them as he did their
brother; but far more bitter were the tears he shed, when he reflected on the waywardness of
that people whom he would have gathered to himself; the guilt of that city which had killed
the prophets; when he thought of those days of divine vengeance, when its enemies should cast
a trench about it, and compass it round, and keep it in on every side, and should lay it even
with the ground, and its children within it. And did not this feeling operate when, even amidst
the agonies of a crucifixion, his mind rested on the sufferings of others, and not on his own?
"Daughters of Jerusalem! weep not for me, but weep for yourselves and for your children." And
shall we not, in this as in every other respect, seek to imitate our adorable Lord? Shall we
not feel deeply interested in the spiritual welfare of our fellow-men? If we do not, it is,
alas! a fearful, a decisive proof, that the flame of holy love, of devoted zeal, has not been
kindled in our bosom; that we do not feel the importance of that salvation which is offered
us so freely in the gospel; that we are not duly impressed with a dread of that woe unspeakable,
that shall be the portion of those whose souls shall be for ever lost.

SACRED PHILOSOPHY.

CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE NATURAL THEOLOGY OF THE VEGETABLE KINGDOM.

By Robert Dickson, M.D., F.L.S.

No. XI. Pt. 1.

    "Lo! the oak that hath so long a nourishing
    From the time that it 'ginneth first to spring,
    And hath so long a life, as we may see,
    Yet at the last wasted is the tree."

                                          CHAUCER.

While the actions which lead to the various effects on the external appearance of a tree, described
in the former paper, are going on, many important changes occur in the internal parts, producing
alterations not less admirable, whether in respect of the tree itself, or of the ends to which
it may be rendered subservient. The base of an exogenous tree is not merely widened by the
superposition of annual layers of wood over the first shoot, by which it gains greater mechanical
power to support the extending head of wide-spreading branches, but the central portion is,
in most cases, progressively rendered more and more solid by the deposition in it of various
secretions prepared by the leaves, and transmitted from them through the medullary rays into
this part as their ultimate resting-place.

The fibres descending from the developing buds on the stem, and passing between the plates
of cellular tissue, which constitute the medullary rays, and the cells of which have a horizontal
direction, are but the basis of the vegetable fabric. The stem of an exogenous plant has been
compared to a piece of linen, of which the weft is composed of cellular tissue, and the warp
of fibrous and vascular tissue--crossing each other. Now, after the portion is once formed,
which is woven every year by the wondrous machinery set to work for this purpose, it receives
no fresh texture, yet each fibre remains a conducting tube to transmit the sap upwards, or,
in the course of time, becomes charged with various principles, prepared, as already stated,
by the leaves, and returned to the central part by that apparatus or system of canals for their
transit inwards, the medullary rays, and at last are obstructed, so that no passage of fluid
is effected through the inner layers of wood. But for every layer that is thus blocked up,
a new one, which will continue pervious, is formed exterior to those already existing, so that
a constant provision is made for carrying on the vital processes; to accomplish which, a free
channel from the points of the roots to the surface of the leaves is absolutely necessary.
The outer strata, produced by a tree of considerable age, are observed to be thinner than those
formed at an earlier period, and become successively thinner and thinner, so that ultimately,
if accident should not have previously caused it, the death of the tree is inevitable. The
portions which are obstructed constitute the duramen or heartwood, the pervious portion the
alburnum or sapwood. The original tissue is colourless; but according to the nature of the
secretions deposited in it, the heartwood is either of a deeper colour, sometimes party-coloured,
or at least of a much greater specific gravity than the sapwood. The removal of the juices
by any solvent restores the wood to its primitive hue, and renders it again light. The difference
of weight of a cubic foot of wood depends not merely on the different quantity of vegetable
tissue compressed into a given space, in the first construction of the tree, but also on the
quantity and quality of the secretions ultimately lodged in it. The same species of tree will
present a difference in this respect, according to the country or situation where it grew,
and also according to the character of the seasons during the time it flourished. According
to the nature of the tree, if placed in favourable circumstances in reference to soil and weather,
it invariably prepares and lodges in the stem those principles which it was designed to elaborate--the
oak preparing tannin--the sugar-maple preparing its saccharine juice. That the primary object
of these was some advantage to the tree itself can scarcely be doubted, but the secondary applications
of which they are capable, give reason to suppose that these also were contemplated in their
formation. The consideration of the means by which they are formed, and the direct consequences
of their formation on the air, by abstracting certain elements from it, and supplying others,
belong to the subject of leaves; it is the object of the present paper to view them as formed,
and to show their amazing utility.

The mechanical properties of the stems of trees, both exogenous and endogenous, render them
extremely serviceable to mankind. The uses to which a single species of plant may be put are
numerous and important, of which the reed (arundo phragmites) is an example, for after the
root has assisted in binding and consolidating the soil, the stem is susceptible of the most
varied applications[A].

In a low state of civilization the palm, or a palm-like grass, supplies all that man requires;
of the former of which, the Mauritia flexuosa, or sago-palm of the Oronooko, and still more
the cocos nucifera, or cocoa-nut palm; and of the latter, the bamboo (bambusa arundinacea,
and other species) are proofs. The bamboo suffices for all the needs of the humbler Chinese;
even their paper, as well as their abodes, are made of it; and from the materials furnished
by the cocoa-nut tree, not merely food, as shall be afterwards noticed, but larger and more
elegant houses, with all their appurtenances, are constructed at Goa and other places. The
obligations of the Guaraons to the Mauritia flexuosa cannot be expressed[B]. In proportion
as man rises in civilization, the importance of timber becomes greater, being a material for
which no adequate substitute can be found. It combines lightness with strength, elasticity
with firmness, and possesses in many instances a durability rivalling, or even surpassing,
that of the rocks yielded to us by the solid substance of the globe. The adaptation of timber
to the numerous wants of civil life is too familiar to require exposition; but in addition
to all the ends it serves in these points, we have an interesting view presented to us in considering
what a vast quantity of timber is required for the construction of our shipping, from the countless
boats and small craft employed in our coasting trade up to the larger ships, which are so many
floating towns or communities. These conduce to the accomplishment of objects of the most momentous
nature. Were it not for our shipping we should still be in the condition described by the Romans,
as Britons cut off from the rest of the world.--But by their means we now visit without restraint,

    "Earth's farthest verge, and ocean's wildest shore,"[C]

and though, in times past, they have been too often used as engines fraught with destruction,
directed by man against his fellow man, let us hope that they may be required in future only
to convey in amicable interchange the produce of one country to another, or to bear to his
destination the missionary bent on extending the blessings of that religion whose spirit is
"peace on earth, good will among the children of men[D]."

As a means of supplying fuel, without which man must remain constantly in the savage state,
wood is of inestimable value. In the process of combustion, the elements of the trees enter
into new combinations, evolving both light and heat, which at once maintain life and render
it a state of enjoyment and usefulness. For this purpose in Britain, we chiefly employ fossil
fuel, stored up in the secret places of the earth, and, therefore, we attach less importance
to recent wood; but other parts of the world are not so favourably situated, and to the inhabitants
of these places fresh, or but lately felled, wood is necessary for their existence. Even in
France, though partially possessed of coal, it is estimated that the quantity of wood employed
to supply heat, whether for comfort, cooking, or in manufactures which require a high temperature,
amounts to seven-tenths of the entire consumption. The superiority of wood fuel, whether fossil
or recent, over every other material resorted to with a like intention, shall be shown in a
subsequent part of this paper. I therefore pass on at present to demonstrate the utility of
vegetable substances in affording the means of subsistence to man and animals.

In the observations I am about to make, it is impossible to avoid anticipating some of the
remarks which belong to the subject of fruits and seeds as articles of food, since the same
principles of nutriment are found in the stems of certain plants as are deposited in the fruits
or seeds of others.

Though man is omnivorous, and can subsist either on animal or vegetable food--an arrangement
which fits him to dwell in any part of the habitable globe,--yet he is subject, with regard
to the actual material of his diet, in a remarkable manner, to the influence of climate, since
a particular kind of aliment, which is very appropriate in one country is improper in another;
thus, as we advance from the equator towards the poles, the necessity for animal food becomes
greater, till, in the very north, it is the sole article of subsistence. Animal food, from
containing nitrogen, is more stimulating, and, therefore, less suitable for hot climates, where,
on the contrary, saccharine, mucilaginous, and starchy materials are preferred; hence, in the
zone of the tropics, we find produced in abundance rice, maize, millet, sago, salep, arrowroot,
potatoes, the bread-fruit, banana, and other watery, or mucilaginous fruits. Quitting this
zone, we enter that which produces wheat, and here, where the temperature is lower, providence
has united with the starch of this grain a peculiar principle (gluten), possessing all the
properties of animal matter, and yielding nitrogen and ammonia in its decomposition[E]. Thus,
by a gradual and almost insensible transition, nature furnishes to man the food which is most
appropriate for him in each region. In the subtropical zone vegetable diet is still preferred,
but, in chemical constitution, the favourite articles approximate animal substances. This holds
also in the temperate zone, not only in respect of wheat, but also in the chesnut, which is
almost the sole means of subsistence in some of the mountainous regions of France, Italy, and
Spain, though, instead of the gluten of wheat, this seed contains albumen, the relation of
which to animal food is even closer than that of gluten. In reviewing the geographical distribution
of the cereal grains[F], we find that starch nearly pure is produced in the greatest abundance
in the hottest parts of the world, particularly in rice and maize; it becomes associated in
the subtropical regions with an equivalent for animal food; and in still colder regions, where
wheat fails, oats and barley take its place. These, though possessed of less gluten than wheat,
are, nevertheless, more heating, and, therefore, better calculated for northern latitudes.
The inhabitants of Scotland and Lapland, with their oaten and barley or rye bread, are thus
as thoroughly provided with the best food, as the Hindoo with his rice or Indian corn[G].

It would be impossible to enumerate the plants which furnish starch in large proportion, but
a few may be given as illustrative of the above positions. The chemical analysis of those proximate
principles of plants which are mere combinations of water with carbon (hydro-carbonates or
hydrates of carbon) has been already given, but must here be repeated:--

                                 100 parts consist of
                                 | Water.  | Carbon.
    Gum (pure gum-arabic)        | 58.6    | 41.4
    Sugar (pure crystallized)    | 57.15   | 42.85
    Starch                       | 56.00   | 44.00
    Lignin                       | 50.00   | 50.00

These are so many mutually convertible products, of which gum may be looked upon as the basis;
indeed gum is that organizable product which exists most universally in the proper juices of
plants. "There are some instances in which sugar appears to be the first organic compound formed
by the combination of the external elements, as when abundantly existing in the ascending sap
of trees--the maple, for example. Starch may be considered as little else than gum divided
into minute portions, each of which is enclosed in a membraneous cell (and containing some
incidental particles, which, when starch is burnt, leave about .23 per cent. of residuum, consisting
entirely of phosphates); and, in this state, it appears to answer very important ends in the
vegetable economy. It is remarked by Decandolle, that, 'while gum itself may be considered
the nutrient principle of vegetation, diffused freely through the structure of the plant, and
constantly in action, starch is apparently the same substance, stored up in such a manner as
not to be readily soluble in the circulating fluids,' thus forming a reservoir of nutritious
matter, which is to be consumed, like the fat of animals (which it closely resembles in structure),
in supporting the plant at particular periods[H]."

This view explains the fact of starch being found accumulated in amazing quantity in some plants,
more particularly at certain periods of their existence, as in the cases I am now to cite.
The fertility of some palm-trees is very great, and to furnish nutriment to the flowers, fruit,
and seeds, an enormous supply of starch is needed; accordingly, in these we find the stem a
complete storehouse of this essential principle. Thus the several palms and palm-like plants,
which yield sago, such as the sagus Rumphii, cycas circinalis, C. revoluta, corypha umbraculifera,
caryota urens, and phoenix farinifera--trees which are mostly confined within the tropics,
at the moment when the spadices or sheaths containing the bunches of flowers are visible but
not unfolded, furnish an immense portion of the food of the natives. The sagus Rumphii, which
abounds in the islands of the Indian Archipelago, and though one of the humblest of the palm
tribe, seldom exceeding thirty feet in height, is yet, except the gomuto, the thickest and
largest, alone yields a quantity of nutritious matter far exceeding that of all other cultivated
plants, inasmuch as a tree in its fifteenth year produces 600 lbs. of sago, which word, in
the language of the Papuas, signifies bread, being the staple food of the islanders. To obtain
it, the tree must be cut down, and the stem divided into pieces, from which the flour is beaten
and washed out[I]. After being cut down, the vegetative power still remains in the root, which
again forms a trunk, and this proceeds through its different stages, until it is again subjected
to the axe, and made to yield its alimentary contents for the service of man. Nor is the extraordinary
productiveness of a single tree the only point worthy of notice, for, being endogenous plants,
devoid of branches, an unusual number of them can grow in a small space. Besides the farina
or meal, every tree cut down furnishes, in its terminal bud, a luxury which is as much prized
as that of the areca oleracea, or cabbage palm of the West Indies, and which is eaten either
raw as a salad, or cooked. Further, the leaves afford so excellent a material for covering
houses, that even in those hot and humid parts of the world, where decomposition goes on so
rapidly, it does not require to be renewed oftener than once in seven years.

The Mauritia flexuosa, or fan palm of the Oronooco, is of still greater utility to the natives
of South America. It is a social palm, abounding in the marshes, and having a geographical
range of very vast extent. The whole northern portion of South America, east of the Cordilleras,
appears to be possessed of this gorgeous palm; from the mouth of the Oronooco to the river
Amazon, and through the whole of Guiana, through Surinam and the northern part of Brazil, and
in very various places along the river Amazon, even to its source on the eastern declivity
of the Cordilleras, this palm is found, constituting forests of greater or less extent. Its
smooth grey stem rising often 100 feet, forms groups that, in the northern part of Brazil,
resemble the pallisades of some gigantic fortress. The produce of these lofty cylinders is
very great, not merely of sago, which is procured only when the process of flowering is about
to occur, but many trees being cut down before this event, a juice is obtained from them, which
forms, by fermentation, a sweet wine; while those that flower, after which no good sago can
be got, furnish an extraordinary quantity of fruit, hanging in bunches many feet in length,
which is as agreeable as ripe apples, the taste of which it resembles. The other products of
this tree are numerous[J].

It would lead beyond just limits, were we to notice in detail, the plants which yield starch
suitable for food, only after undergoing a process of art, by which an acrid principle is driven
off, and a bland, wholesome substance remains behind. Such is the Janipha (or Jatropha) Manihot,
which yields the Mandiocca, Tapioca, or Cassava, an article not only of great consumption in,
but also of considerable export from, Brazil (see Spix and Martius' Travels, and Lib. of Enter.
Knowledge, Vegt. Sub. Food of Man, p. 152), which, when raw, is poisonous both to man and cattle,
though it becomes safe and agreeable by the application of heat. So likewise the large tubers
of several Arums, such as A. Macrorhizon, A. Colocasia, Caladium acre, and which are cultivated
with great care in tropical and subtropical countries, particularly in the Sandwich and South
Sea islands. All of these excite inflammation and swelling of the mouth and tongue, even to
the danger of suffocation, but which are disarmed of their virulence, and converted into an
article of daily consumption, by fire. Even yams and sweet potatoes, which are naturally mild,
are less articles of consumption in the south sea islands, than the Tarro, as these tubers
of the arums are designated.

I omit all other plants to fix attention on the potatoe, which is not only the source of the
purest starch of all, but has many interesting points connected with its history and habitudes,
peculiarly connected with my subject. No plant has contributed more to banish those famines
which were formerly of so frequent occurrence in Europe, and all the dire train of suffering
and disease consequent upon them. Yet did it, in many instances, require royal edicts to induce
some nations to cultivate what is now regarded as one of the prime blessings of Providence,
from nearly one end of the earth to the other; the potatoe being raised from Hammerfest, in
Lapland, lat. 71° north, through all Europe, the plains of India, in China, Japan, the south-sea
islands, New Holland, even to New Zealand. What renders it so peculiarly valuable is, that
in the seasons when the corn crop fails, that of potatoes is generally more abundant; thus
furnishing a substitute for the other, which proves defective from atmospheric conditions,
which have little influence over the potatoe, placed as it is underground, and secure against
extremes of temperature. The potatoe is not a root, as commonly supposed, but an underground
collection of buds, having a quantity of starch accumulated around them, for their nourishment
when they begin to grow. The quantity of starch varies greatly with the kind of potatoe cultivated,
the mode of cultivation, the time of setting, and above all, with the season of the year when
the analysis is made. Potatoes in general, afford from one-fifth to one-seventh their weight
of dry starch[K]; besides some other nutritive materials. The quantity of starch seems to be
at its maximum in the winter months; as 100 pounds of potatoes yield in August about 10 lbs.,
in October nearly 15 lbs., in November to March 17 lbs., in April 13¾ lbs., and in May 10 lbs.
Nor is the quantity of starch alone diminished in spring, but the nitrogen which belongs to
some of the other nutritive principles, likewise suffers a deduction; as fresh, not dried potatoes,
contain 0.0037 per cent. of azote, while potatoes ten months old contain only 0.0028, causing
a sensible difference in their power of imparting nourishment. The starch is withdrawn from
the tubers of the potatoe, precisely in the same way that it is transferred from the root,
stem, or seeds of other plants, for the service of the young shoot; but the mode in which it
is accomplished is but of recent discovery, and constitutes one of the most beautiful instances
of design which the whole vegetable kingdom can unfold; "that man's scepticism must be incurable
who does not perceive, and acknowledge, that the means now to be detailed were created for
the express accomplishment of the ends[L]."

Starch has been described above as consisting of a multitude of little cells or vesicles, having
an envelope, insoluble in water, formed of a kind of organized membrane, and containing within
it a substance which is soluble in water, termed amidin. This soluble material is the nutritive
element on which the young shoot, proceeding from every eye or bud of the potatoes, is to subsist,
till it has developed roots, and unfolded its leaves to prepare additional alimentary substance.
But if this soluble material be enclosed in an insoluble membrane, how are the contents to
be made available for the growth of the plant? It is true, indeed, that water of the temperature
of 160° Fahr. can rupture this tegument, as occurs in the process of boiling potatoes; but
the water diffused through the earth in the neighbourhood of the growing tuber, never reaches
such a height. How then is the difficulty obviated? This is effected by a secretion called
diastase which is found in the tubers in the immediate vicinity of the eyes or buds. "It is
stored up in that situation for the purpose of being conveyed, by the vessels connected with
the bud, into the substance of the tuber, when the demand for nutrition is occasioned by the
development of the shoot. It is probable that the secretion of diastase takes place in every
instance in which starch previously deposited is to be re-absorbed[M]." It is not to be found
before grains or tubers begin to sprout, yet, "such is its energy, that one part of it is sufficient
to render soluble the interior portion of two thousand parts of starch, and to convert it into
sugar[N]." Strong as is the analogy between starch and gum, yet diastase does not convert gum
into sugar; the one being as completely soluble as the other, its intervention is clearly unnecessary.
Neither does it act on sugar. It is found, and exerts its powers, only where it is required.
Nor does it come into play one moment before the necessity for it occurs. While the potatoe
is in its state of winter repose, and no vegetative process going on, the elements of which
the diastase is formed, are equally quiescent, but no sooner does the season recur when an
augmented temperature rouses the slumbering energy of the tuber, than this potent principle
exhibits its efficacy, and changes the insoluble starch into the nutritious sugar. Who, that
can read, or reading reflect and ponder on these things, but must conclude that the laws which
regulate the whole actions were impressed upon their subjects by a Creator infinite in design,
in wisdom, and in power? If such insight into his doings are permitted to us now, what may
we not hope for when we no longer "see as through a glass darkly[O]?"

The insolubility of the starch in cold water, affords a convenient means of separating the
flour from the other materials, by which it may be abstracted from the tubers when in the greatest
abundance, and be preserved unchanged for the use of man. This is done by simply rasping down
the potatoes over a seirce, and passing a current of water over the raspings. The water passes
through the seirce milky from the starch suspended in it. The starch is allowed to fall to
the bottom, and is two or three times washed with pure water; it is then allowed to dry[P].
If this process be followed in the winter months, when the quantity of starch is greatest,
the result is, a sixth portion of the weight of the potatoes employed, in a condition fit not
only for immediate use, but capable of preservation for years. "To those who live solely, or
even principally, on potatoes, it must be of immense importance to have the nutritious part
preserved when in its greatest perfection, instead of leaving it exposed to injury, decomposition,
or decay[Q]."

It is unnecessary to enlarge upon the sources of starch and its obvious utility to mankind.
Previous to its being consumed by the plant in which it is amassed, it is by various means,
but chiefly by diastase, transformed into sugar. Following this natural transition, I shall
next consider sugar as an article of diet. In temperate climates, sugar is regarded as a luxury,
one indeed which is nearly indispensable, but in tropical countries it is a universal article
of subsistence, partly as real sugar, and partly, and more generally, as it occurs in the cane.
It is inconceivable what enormous quantities of the sugar-cane is consumed in this way; vast
ship-loads arrive daily in the market at Manilla, and in Rio Janiero; in the Sandwich Islands
and other places, every child is seen going about with a portion of sugar-cane in the hand.
It has been called "the most perfect alimentary substance in nature," and the results, in the
appearance of the negroes, during the cane-harvest, notwithstanding the increased severe toils
of that season, seem to confirm the statement. They almost invariably become plump, and sleek,
and scarcely take any other food while the harvest lasts; even the sickly revive, and often
recover their health.

The chief source of sugar is large grass (saccharum officinarum), of which there are several
varieties, differing essentially in productiveness, but the best of which is the Otaheita cane,
the stem of which is higher, thicker, and more succulent than the Creole cane, and which yields
not only one-third more of juice than the Creolian cane on the same space of land; but from
the thickness of its stem, and the tenacity of its ligneous fibres, it furnishes much more
fuel. It was thence transplanted to St. Domingo, in 1513, and has since spread to the continent
of South America, and to the West Indies, whence the chief supply for Europe is obtained.

The vast circuit which it has described in these successive transplantations attest the sense
which mankind had of the benefits it bestowed in its course. The introduction of the Otaheita
cane is another proof of the obligations which modern times are under to navigation, as we
owe this plant to the voyages of Bougainville, Cook, and Bligh[R].

