Faith in God certainly places the maximum of greatness upon the human mind. The man who believes
in the existence of mind apart from matter, and consequently looks upon death as a blessed
state of rest to the good man which lies between the two great activities of time and eternity,
and also believes in God and future rewards, has stronger motives to sound moral rectitude
than the man who denies and ridicules these great truths. "The seat of law is the bosom of
God, and her voice is the harmony of the world." It is respect for law that brings responsibilities
home to the heart. Where there is no faith there is no respect for law pertaining to future
rewards; and where this is the case there is no sense of moral obligations connecting man with
the future retribution. So there is nothing resting upon an unbeliever's heart that will serve
as a check upon his passions, and deter him from living with reference to the gratification
of a mere animal nature. Skepticism, by shutting God out of the mind, destroys the very idea
of law. A whole senate, a whole people, can not dispense from its paramount obligations. It
requires no commentators to render it intelligible; nor is it different at Rome, at Athens,
from what it was ages ago, nor is it different now from what it will be in ages to come. In
all nations and in every age it has been, is, and forever will be the same--one, as God, its
greatest author, is one. Man is man, truly, as he yields himself to this divine influence.
Faith in God implants this law in the individual and national heart. Infidelity excludes its
authority and influence and leaves man to the mercy of his undisciplined appetites. The fruits
of infidelity have always been selfishness. The Christian believer regards himself as subordinated
to a higher power, and labors under a sense of obligations which begets habits of self-control
that are the life of morality. The ideal character of the Christian religion is such that faith
in God and future rewards tend to make the earth life an image of the divine. This is the glory
of both reason and faith, that it perceives the invisible. The students of the present have
no trouble to see that the true greatness of the nation of antiquity was in their attribute
of morality. Virtue and morality in an ancient ruler shines in history even across the dark
ages, and makes glad the heart of the student of the nineteenth century. Faith in God has been
the great leading thought in the rise of nations--that is, in reformations. Luther and Melancthon
preceded Lord Bacon, Newton and Locke. The few stars that lit up the gloomy night that preceded
the reformation and the revival of literature were lighted by the faith of God. Speaking of
this fact, Dr. Goode says: "We behold a flood of noonday bursting all at once over every quarter
of the horizon and dissipating the darkness of a thousand years; we behold mankind in almost
every quarter of Europe, from the Carpathian Mountains to the pillars of Hercules, from the
Tiber to the Vistula, waking as from a profound sleep to a life of activity and bold adventure;
ignorance falling prostrate before advancing knowledge; brutality and barbarism giving way
to science and polite letters; vice and anarchy to order and moral conduct.

"The modern opposers of Christianity, reasoning in a retro-grade motion--that is, going backwards--ascribe
every improvement to science and philosophy, but it was religion that took the lead in both
the great revival of learning and the reformation. Aldhelm, Bede and Alcuin were three great
Anglo-Saxon luminaries of the eighth century. Alcuin was the tutor and confidential friend
of Charlemagne. Ingulph, made abbot of Croyland by William the Conquerer, was the bright light
of the eleventh century. To him we are indebted for much that has come down to us. John of
Salisbury, Girald the Cambrian, and the monk Adelard, and Robert of Reading were all religious
leaders. The last two traveled in Egypt and Arabia, studied mathematics at Cordovia. Adelard
translated Euclid out of Arabic into Latin. Such also was Alfred the Great, who was victorious
in prosperity and adversity, as a legislator and philosopher, as a soldier and politician,
a king and a Christian; he was the pride of princes, the flower of society and the delight
of mankind." Roger Bacon, of notoriety on account of his superior knowledge of physics, was
the bright Christian light of the thirteenth century. From this century all the way through
the reformation the revival of faith in God was the revival of the golden age of learning or
literature. When faith in God expired in France the entire social fabric steadily declined
until all crumbled and fell as in the ruins of an earthquake. At the same time the inhabitants,
loosened from the restraints which faith in the living God imposes, stained every part of the
country with blood, and its glory and grandeur perished. It has been well said that the rights
of man can not be well secured and enjoyed unless he is viewed in his relations to God. Where
government aims at and subserves this end it is a blessing. Faith lets God down into the hearts
of lawmakers, and a sense of accountability to him must, most certainly, have a grand tendency
to refine laws in their first conception. At least it happens to be true that wherever God
is feared and law made the basis of the legislation and policy of a nation, that nation is,
in fact, found to excel in those interests which are essential to a nation's well-being and
glory. We challenge any man, or set of men, to an estimate of the comparative purity and morals
of the nations of the earth. It is, and forever will be, found to correspond with their religious
systems. The great conflict which is now going on in every civilized country is a conflict
between faith and infidelity. For the triumph of light and truth the very throne of God is
pledged. There may be difficulties to encounter, but these will be vanquished. As well undertake
to pluck the sun and stars from the heavens, and spread the black curtain of one long protracted
night over the world, as to try to quench the light of immortal truth as it flows freely into
the hearts of so many millions and stirs up the deep fountains of human spirits.

The Colonel's business has been very lucrative, therefore his has not been a truth-telling
business.

THE THEORY OF THE ORIGINAL FREE-THINKERS.

See how they have advanced! "Free-thinking Christians," a name lately adopted by a society
which arose in the year 1799, and has ever since regularly assembled in London, calling itself
a church of God founded on the principles of free inquiry. Their first members separated from
a congregation of Trinitarian dissenters in Parliament Court Chapel, Bishopgate street; they
rejected the doctrine of the trinity, the atonement, and other points of Calvinism; then the
sacraments and the immateriality of the soul; and lastly, the inspiration of the scriptures
and public worship, for they have neither singing nor praying in their assemblies, and regard
the Bible only as an authentic history.

These free-thinking Christians readily admit that, since their first assembling as a body,
their sentiments have undergone considerable alteration on points of primary importance, but
they contend that this is the natural consequence of free inquiry; that men who had heretofore
been the slaves of error could not but advance in the attainment of truth after adopting a
system which left thought unrestrained and conscience free, and they are still ready to renounce
any opinion whenever it shall appear to them untenable. In consequence, their public meetings,
which are mostly on Sunday forenoons, resemble rather a debating society than a Christian Church.
The elder opens the meeting by stating the subject for consideration, and, at his call, several
speakers successively address the meeting. It is not unusual to hear among them difference
of opinion, and they are all prompt to controvert the current doctrines of the Christian world,
to show their dissent from all sects and parties, and their aversion to the clergy and to Christian
ministers of all denominations.

This society was little known till the year 1808, when they advertised their intention of publicly
inquiring into the existence of a being called the devil. So singular a notice could not fail
of drawing a considerable number of persons to their assembly, especially on a Sunday morning.
The landlord of the house at which they met in the old 'Change, alarmed for his personal security,
obliged them to remove, and they engaged the large room at the Paul's Head, Cateaton street.
Here the magistracy interfered, but as they had taken the precaution to license themselves
under the toleration act, nothing could be done legally to restrain them. Since then they have
set up a periodical publication under the title of the "Free-thinking Christian's Magazine,"
in which they profess to disseminate Christian, moral, and philosophical truth, and they have
erected a handsome meeting-house in the crescent behind Jewin street, Cripplegate, where this
weekly assembly, consisting of members and strangers, is said to amount to between four and
five hundred persons.

The following appears to be the latest summary of their opinions: "The Christian religion,"
they say, "consists in the worship of one God, eternal, just, and good, and in an obedience
to the commands of Jesus, his messenger on earth, who taught the wicked to repent of the error
of their ways and that God was ever ready to receive them. Forms and ordinances, parade and
show, are no points of his system, but virtue and purity of heart can alone prepare man for
a blissful existence beyond the grave, the wisdom and hope of which were furnished by the resurrection
of the teacher of their faith, a member of earth and an heir of immortality."--Free-thinking
Christians' Magazine; Hannah Adams's Dictionary of all Religions, page 82.

REMARKS.

The above dictionary is in my possession. It was published in 1817 by James Eastburn & Company
at the literary rooms, corner of Broadway and Pine streets, New York, and by Cummings and Hilliard,
No. 1 Cornhill, Boston. The author credits the above article to the above-named magazine, so
we may rely upon it as the freethinker's own presentation of his theory in its early history.
It will be of great interest to all our readers, as it will enable them to see, at once, the
origin of so-called free-thought. It had its origin with Calvinistic errors upon the subject
of the Trinity, a vicarious atonement, and kindred ideas concerning human redemption. It will
be of interest also to mark the improvements (?) of free-thinkers, who are always boasting
of being in the advance guard in warring with error and ignorance.

They had neither singing nor prayers when they started out, and in these regards they have
not apostatized from their first faith, for they are up to this time a praiseless and prayerless
people, never praying unless it is when they have the cramp or some other disease. Their wants
seem to be few and easily supplied. Health and hominy are the staples of spiritual food with
them at the present. The time was when, as a society, they wished to wear some of the main
elements of the Christian religion, such as belief in the existence of God; the existence of
the church of God, and belief in the resurrection of Christ, and through him the resurrection
of all men; but they have long ere this thrown aside all these. This trait of character they
still retain, regardless of the advance of Christians from Calvinistic errors. This looks like
they were determined on hating the profession of Christianity, regardless of its character.
Such is their chronic disease.

They talk no more of worshiping the eternal God, nor of obeying the commands of Jesus. But
it is just to say of their most noted leaders that they confess that the Christ life was, and
is, the most exalted and praiseworthy life of all the ages. And, while this life remains to
challenge the world to imitation, we Christians shall rejoice, believing in Christ and realizing
that our foundation stands sure and secure. In their origin they built a fine church house,
but now they go to China and borrow "Josh house," as an odius epithet for church house, forgetting
that their China brethren are simply clinging to their own old philosophy of nature and her
lessons, without the religion of the Bible; and, also, forgetting that they, themselves, allow
that all that is, is right, being, from natural selection, simply the survival of the fittest.
Eight years more and a century will have passed since free thought started out in Parliament
Court Chapel, and from present indications we are inclined to think that all men will be under
the necessity of conceding that Christianity is the fittest, for it stoutly refuses to die.

In their beginning they repudiated the idea of the inspiration of the Bible; to this they have
held without change. Further than this, they acknowledged that the Bible was an authentic history,
but now they calumniate the idea, and blaspheme the Bible and its God. In these respects they
have grown backwards; and they no longer claim to "worship one God, eternal, just and good,"
nor to "obey the commands of Jesus," "rejecting sacraments, forms, ordinances, parade and show,
along with song and prayer." Perhaps they cast up their accounts, and found that there could,
in the very nature of things, be no worship outside of all these elements of worship, and then
determined to be more honest at least, and endeavor in the future to people the earth with
a non-worshipping, Godless, Christless, praiseless, prayerless, non-hoping set of inhabitants,
who would give all up in death for the sake of free thought.

WHAT A MAN MAY BE AND BE A CHRISTIAN IN THE ESTIMATION OF COL. INGERSOLL.

We find the following in the Colonel's speech, which was delivered at Rockford, Ill., on Tuesday,
October 5, 1880. We publish it in order to show the utter fallacy of the infidel's claim that
Christianity is necessarily in conflict with education; that Christians are necessarily bigots,
narrow-minded men, dangerous to the liberty of man, woman and child. Read it, ye fault-finding
skeptics and infidels, and save your claims against the Christian religion if you can. Correllate
it with the hollow utterances of Colonel Ingersoll, which are so often repeated by him in other
addresses directed wholly against Christianity, if you can. Here it is:

     "I have known him (Garfield) for years. I know him as well as I
     know any other man, and I tell you he has more brains, more
     education, wider and more splendid views than any other man who has
     been nominated for the Presidency by any party since I was born.
     Some people say to me: 'How can you vote for Garfield when he is a
     Christian and was a preacher?' I tell them: 'I have two reasons:
     One is, I am not a bigot, and the other is, General Garfield is not
     a bigot. He does not agree with me; I do not agree with him on
     thousands of things; but on the great luminous principle that
     every man must give to every other man every right that he claims
     for himself we do absolutely agree.' [Italics mine.--ED.] I would
     despise myself if I would vote against a man in politics simply
     because we differed about what is known as religion. I will vote
     for a liberal Catholic, a liberal Presbyterian, a liberal
     Methodist, a liberal anything ten thousand times quicker than I
     would vote for an illiberal free-thinker. I believe in the right. I
     believe in doing to other people in these matters as I would like
     them to do to me. General Garfield is an honest man every way;
     intellectual every way. He is a poor man; he is rich in honor, in
     integrity he is wealthy, and in brains he is a millionaire. * * *
     He is a great, good, broad, kind, tender man, and he will do, if
     elected President, what he believes to be right."

SUM OF POSSIBILITIES.

1. It is possible for an honest man to be the best educated man in the nation, and at the same
time be a Christian.

2. It is possible for the millionaire in brains to be the best educated man in the nation,
and at the same time be a Christian.

3. It is possible for a man to be a Christian, and not be a bigot.

4. It is possible for a man to be a Christian, and an advocate of the great luminous principle
that every man must give to every other man every right that he claims for himself.

5. It is possible for a man to be a Christian and be a liberal man.

6. It is possible for a man to be honest every way, and be a Christian.

7. It is possible for a man to be a Christian, and be every way an intellectual man.

8. It is possible for a man to be a Christian, and be rich in honor.

9. It is possible for a man to be a Christian, and be wealthy in integrity.

10. It is possible for a man to be a Christian, and be a great man.

11. It is possible for a man to be a Christian, and be a good man.

12. It is possible for a man to be a Christian, and be a broad, kind, tender man.

13. It is possible for a man to be a Christian, and have wider and more splendid views than
any other man.

And Colonel Ingersoll says he knows all this to be so. Now what shall we think of the utterances
of lesser lights in infidelity since we have the living fact before us that Christianity is
in perfect harmony with the very highest education; with the widest and most splendid views;
with honesty every way; with greatness; with goodness; with integrity; with honor; with kindness
and tenderness; with the great luminous principle that a man must give to every other man every
right that he claims for himself? And it is also in perfect harmony with a great and liberal heart.

We have hope that Colonel Ingersoll will yet find his way into the temple of truth, which reveals
the glory and grandeur of the perfect harmony that exists between Christianity and all that
is truly great and good--since he has pronounced the word "Eureka."

LIFE AND FORCE ARE NOT THE SAME.

