

"My love, my love!"

"Again!"--he murmured.

"My love, my love!"

But at length she came to herself, she remembered. "You will go?" she said. She put him from
her and held him fondly at arm's length, her hands on his shoulders. "You will go? It is all
you can do for me. You will go and live?"

"Without you?"

"Yes. Better, a hundred times better so--for me."

"And for me? Why may I not save you and her?"

"It is impossible!"

"Nothing is impossible to love," he answered. "The nights are long, the wall is not too high!
No wall is too high for love! It is but a league to the frontier, and I am strong."

"Who would receive us?" she asked sadly. "Who would shelter us? In Savoy, if we were not held
for sorcery, we should be delivered to the Inquisition."

"We might gain friends?"

"With what? No," she continued, her hands cleaving more tightly to him; "you must go, dear
love! Dear love! You must go! It is all you can do for me, and it is much! Oh, indeed, it is
much! It is very much!"

He drew her to him as near as the settle would permit, until she was kneeling on it, and in
spite of her faint resistance he could look into her eyes. "Were you in my place, would you
leave me?" he asked.

"Yes," she lied bravely, "I would."

But the flash of resentment in her eyes gave her voice the lie, and he laughed joyfully. "You
would not!" he said. "You would not leave me on this side of death!"

She tried to protest.

"Nor will I you," he continued, stopping her mouth with fresh kisses. "Nor will I you till
death! Did you think me a coward?" He held her from him and looked into her reproachful eyes.
"Or a Tissot? Tissot left you. Or Louis Gentilis?"

But she made him know that he was none of these in a way that satisfied him; and a moment later
her mother's voice called her from the room. He thought, having no experience of a woman's
will, that he had done with that; and in her absence he betook himself to examining the defences
of the house. He replaced the bar which he had wrested from the window; wedging it into its
socket with a morsel or two of molten lead. The windows of the bedrooms, his own and Louis',
looked into a narrow lane, the Rue de la Cité, that ran at the back of the Corraterie in a
line with the ramparts; but not only were they almost too small to permit the passage of a
full-grown man, they were strongly barred. Against such a rabble, as had assaulted Anne, or
even a more formidable mob, the house was secure. But if the law intervened neither bar nor
bolt could save them.

He fell to thinking of this, and stood, arrested in the middle of the darkened room that, as
the hours went by, was beginning to take on a familiar look. The day was passing, all without
remained quiet, nothing had happened. Was it possible that nothing would happen? Was it possible
that the girl through long brooding exaggerated the peril? And that the worst to be feared
was such an outbreak as had occurred that morning? Such an outbreak as might not take place
again, since mobs were fickle things.

He dwelt a while on this more hopeful view of things. Then he recalled Basterga's threats,
the Syndic's face, the departure of Louis and Grio; and his heart sank as lead sinks. The rumour
so quickly spread--by what hints, what innuendoes, what cunning inquiries, what references
to the old, invisible, bedridden woman, he could but guess--that rumour bore witness to a malice
and a thirst for revenge which were not likely to stop at words. And Louis' flight? And Grio's?
And Basterga's?--for he did not return. To believe that all these, taken together, these and
the outrage of the morning, portended anything but danger, anything but the worst, demanded
a hopefulness that even his youth and his love could not compass.

Yet when she descended he met her with brave looks.

CHAPTER XXI.

THE REMEDIUM.

Blondel's thin lips were warrant--to such of the world as had eyes to see--that in the ordinary
things of life he would have been one of the last to put faith in a man of Basterga's stamp:
and one of the first, had the case been other than his own, to laugh at the credulity he was
displaying. He would have seen--no one more clearly--that, in making the bargain he had made,
he was in the position of a drowning man who clutches at a straw; not because he believes that
the straw will support him, but because he has no other hope, and is loth to sink.

He would have seen, too, another thing, which indeed he did see dimly. This was that, talk
as he might, make terms as he might, repeat as firmly as he pleased, "The remedium first and
then Geneva," he would be forced when the time came to take the word for the deed. If he dared
not trust Basterga, neither dared the scholar trust him. Once safe, once snatched from the
dark fate that scared him, he would laugh at the notion of betraying the city. He would snap
his fingers in the Paduan's face; and Basterga knew it. The scholar, therefore, dared not trust
him; and either there was an end of the matter or he must trust Basterga, must eat his own
words, and, content with the possession of something, must wait for proof of its efficacy until
the die was cast!

In his heart he knew this. He knew that on the brink of the extremity to which circumstances
and Basterga were slowly pushing him it might not be in his power to check himself: that he
must trust, whether he would or no, and where instinct bade him place no trust. And this doubt,
this suspicion that when all was done he might find himself tricked, and learn that for nothing
he had given all, added immeasurably to the torment of his mind; to the misery of his reflections
when he awoke in the small hours and saw things coldly and clearly, and to the fever and suspense
in which he passed his days.

He clung to one thought and got what consolation he could from it; a bitter and saturnine comfort
it was. The thought was this: if it turned out that, after all, he had been tricked, he could
but die; and die he must if he made no bargain. And to a dead man what matter was it what price
he had paid that he might live! What matter who won or who lost Geneva, who lived, who died,
who were slaves, who free!

And again, the very easiness of the thing he was asked to do tempted him. It was a thing that
to one in his position presented no difficulty and scarcely any danger. He had but to withdraw
the guards, or the greater part of them, from a portion of the wall, and to stop on one pretext
or another--the bitter cold of the wintry weather would avail--the rounds that at stated intervals
visited the various posts. That was all; as a man of tried loyalty, intrusted with the safeguarding
of the city, and to whom the officer of the watch was answerable, he might make the necessary
arrangements without incurring, even after the catastrophe, more than a passing odium, a breath
of suspicion.

And Baudichon and Petitot? He tasted, when he thought of them, the only moments of comfort,
of pleasure, of ease, that fell to his lot throughout these days. They would thwart him no
more. Petty worms, whose vision went no farther than the walls of the city, he would have done
with them when the flag of Savoy fluttered above St. Pierre; and when for the confines of a
petty canton was substituted, for those who had eyes to see and courage to adapt themselves,
the wide horizon of the Italian Kingdom. When he thought of them--and then only--he warmed
to the task before him; then only he could think of it without a shiver and without distaste.
And not the less because on that side, in their suspicion, in their grudging jealousy, in their
unwinking integrity, lay the one difficulty.

