PUNCH, OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI.

VOL. 159.

November 10th, 1920.

CHARIVARIA.

Now that the Presidential elections are over it is hoped that any Irish-Americans who joined
the Sinn Fein murder-gang for electioneering purposes will go home again.

       * * *

Owing to pressure on space, due among other things to the American election, the net sale controversy
in one of our contemporaries was held over on Wednesday last. We are quite sure that neither
Senator HARDING nor Mr. COX was aware of his responsibility in the matter.

       * * *

Lord HOWARD DE WALDEN says, "I would rather trust a crossing-sweeper with an appreciation of
music than a man who comes from a public school." We agree. The former is much more likely
to have been a professional musician in his time.

       * * *

The mystery of the Scottish golf club that was recently inundated with applications for membership
is now explained. It appears that a caddy refused a tip of sixpence offered him by one of the
less affluent members, and the story somehow leaked out.

       * * *

At one Hallowe'en dinner held in London the haggis was ten minutes late. It is said that it
had had trouble with a dog on the way and had come off second best.

       * * *

The man who was heard last week to say that he had no idea that Mrs. ASQUITH had published
a book of memoirs has now, on the advice of his friends, consented to see a doctor.

       * * *

The clergy of Grays, in Essex, are advocating the abolition of Sunday funerals. It is said
that quite a number of strict Sabbatarians have a rooted objection to being buried on the Sabbath.

       * * *

According to an evening paper hawthorn buds have been plucked at Hornsey. We don't care.

       * * *

A Liberal Independent writes to ask if the Mr. LLOYD GEORGE, who has been elected Lord Rector
of Edinburgh University, is the well-known Prime Minister of that name.

       * * *

A firm of music publishers have produced what they describe as a three-quarter one-step. It
will soon be impossible to go to a dance without being accompanied by a professional arithmetician.

       * * *

It seems that high prices have even put an end to the chicken that used to cross the road.

       * * *

"Only through poverty," says Mr. MAURICE HEWLETT, "will England thrive." As a result of this
statement we understand that several profiteers have decided to get down to it once again.

       * * *

A Japanese arrested at Hull was found to have seven revolvers and two thousand rounds of ammunition
on him. It was pointed out to him that the War was over long ago.

       * * *

A contemporary refers to a romance which ended in marriage. Alas! how often this happens.

       * * *

The United States Government has decided to recognise the present Mexican Government. Mexican
bandits say they had better take a good look at them while there is yet time.

       * * *

A Prohibitionist asserts that Scotland will be dry in five years. Our own feeling is that these
end-of-the-world prognostications should be prohibited by law.

       * * *

An Oxford professor has made himself the subject of a series of experiments on the effects
of alcohol. Several college professors of America quite readily admit that they never thought
of that one.

       * * *

A correspondent writes to a contemporary to say that he wears a hat exactly like The Daily
Mail hat, and that he purchased it long before The Daily Mail was started. The audacity of
some people in thinking that anything happened before The Daily Mail started is simply appalling.

       * * *

Three stars have recently been discovered by an American. No, no; not those stars, but stars
in the heavens.

       * * *

"Whilst returning to camp one night I walked right into a herd of elephants," states a well-known
explorer in his memoirs. We have always maintained that all wild animals above the size of
a rabbit should carry two head-lights and one rear-light whilst travelling after dark.

       * * *

A small island was advertised for sale last week. Just the sort of thing for a bad sailor to
take with him when crossing the Channel on a rough day.

       * * *

"Everyone knows," a writer in The Daily Mail declares, "that electric light in the poultry-house
results in more eggs." There may be more of them but they never have the real actinic taste
of the natural egg.

       * * *

An American inventor has devised a scheme for lassoing enemy submarines. This is a decided
improvement on the method of just sticking a pin into them as they whizz by.

       * * *

Since the talk of Prohibition in Scotland, we are informed that one concert singer began the
chorus of the famous Scottish ballad by singing "O ye'll tak the dry road."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

From an article on "Bullies at the Bar":--

    "He who had read his 'Pickwick'--and who has not?--will never
    forget the trial scene where poor, innocent Mr. Pickwick is as
    wax in the hands of the cross-examiner."

    Provincial Paper.

We regret to say that, in our edition, Mr. Serjeant Snubbin omitted to put his client in the
witness-box, and consequently Mr. Serjeant Buzfuz never had a chance of showing what he could
do with him.

       *       *       *       *       *

=BEFORE THE CENOTAPH.=

NOVEMBER 11TH, 1920.

  Not with dark pomp of death we keep their day,
    Theirs who have passed beyond the sight of men,
    O'er whom the autumn strews its gold again,
  And the grey sky bends to an earth as grey;
  But we who live are silent even as they
    While the world's heart marks one deep throb; and then,
    Touched by the gleam of suns beyond our ken,
  The Stone of Honour crowns the trodden way.

  Above the people whom they died to save
    Their shrine of sleep is set; abideth there
  No dust corruptible, nought that death may have;
    But from remembrance of the days that were
  Rises proud sorrow in a resistless wave
    That breaks upon the empty sepulchre.

D. M. S.

       *       *       *       *       *

=OUR INVINCIBLE NAVY.=

PRIZE-MONEY.

The really intriguing thing about Naval prize-money is the fact that no one knows exactly where
it comes from. You don't win it by any definite act of superlative daring--I mean to say, you
don't have to creep out under cover of darkness and return in the morning with an enemy battleship
in tow to qualify for a modicum of this mysterious treasure. You just proceed serenely on your
lawful occasions, confident in the knowledge that incredible sums of prize-money are piling
themselves up for your ultimate benefit. I suppose the authorities understand all about it;
nobody else does. One just lets it pile. It is a most gratifying thought.

During the more or less stormy times of the First Great War, we of the Navy were always able
to buttress our resolution with golden hopes of a future opulence denied to our less fortunate
comrades in the trenches. Whenever the struggle was going particularly badly for us--when,
for instance, a well-earned shore-leave had been unexpectedly jammed or a tin of condensed
milk had overturned into somebody's sea-boot--we used to console each other with cheerful reminders
of this accumulating fruit of our endeavours. "Think of the prize-money, my boy," we used to
exclaim; "meditate upon the jingling millions that will be yours when the dreary vigil is ended;"
and as by magic the unseemly mutterings of wrath would give place to purrs of pleasurable anticipation.
Even we of the R.N.V.R., mere temporary face-fringes, as it were, which the razor of peace
was soon to remove from the war-time visage of the Service--even we fell under the spell. "Fourteen
million pounds!" we would gurgle, hugging ourselves with joy in the darkness of the night-watches.

In the months immediately following demobilisation I was frequently stimulated by glittering
visions of vast wealth presently to be showered upon me from the swelling coffers of a grateful
Admiralty. During periods of more or less temporary financial embarrassment I would mention
these expectations to my tailor and other restless tradespeople of my acquaintance. "Fourteen
millions--prize-money, you know," I would say confidentially; "may come in at any time now."
I found this had a soothing effect upon them.

As the seasons rolled by, however; as summer and winter ran their appointed courses and again
the primrose pranked the lea unaccompanied by any signs of vernal activity on the part of the
Paymaster-in-Chief, these visions of mine became less insistent. I was at length obliged to
confess that another youthful illusion was fading; prize-money began to take its place in my
mind along with the sea-serpent and similar figures of marine mythology. I was frankly hurt;
I ceased even to raise my hat when passing the Admiralty Offices on the top of a bus.

That was a month or two ago; everything is all right again now. I once more experience the
old pleasing thrill of emotion when riding down Whitehall. I have come to see how ungracious
my recent attitude was.

A chance meeting with Bunbury, late sub-Loot R.N.V.R. and a sometime shipmate of mine--Bunbury
and I had squandered our valour recklessly together aboard the Tyne drifters in the great days
when Bellona wore bell-bottoms--sufficed to bring me head-to-wind.

In the course of conversation I referred to the non-fulfilment of our early dreams; I spoke
rather bitterly.

"And there are fourteen millions somewhere belonging to us," I concluded mutinously.

Bunbury regarded me with pained surprise. "Really, old sea-dog," he said, "this won't do. Never
let the engine-oil of discontent leak into the rum-cask of loyal memories, you know. Now listen
to me. Two years ago you and I wore the wavy gold braid of a valiant life; we surged along
irresistibly in the wake of NELSON; we kept the watch assigned. Does not your bosom very nearly
burst with pride to call those days to mind? It does. What then? Has it never once occurred
to you that the last remaining link between us and the stirring past is this very prize-money
you are so eager to soil with the grimy clutch of avarice? Don't you realize that this alone
exists to keep our memory green in the minds of our old leaders at Whitehall? Picture the scene
as it is. Someone mentions the word 'prize-money.' Immediately the Lords of the Admiralty reach
for their record files and begin turning over the pages. They come upon the names of John Augustus
Plimsoll-- yourself--and Horatio Bunbury--me. 'Ah,' they exclaim fondly, 'two of our old gunroom
veterans--when shall we look upon their like again?' Then they get up and go out to lunch.

"A month or so later the same thing occurs; once more our names leap out from the type-written
page. 'Brave boys,' they murmur, 'gallant lads! What should we have done without them in the
dark days? They shall have their prize-money this very--why, bless my soul, if it isn't one
o'clock!'

"Surely," pursued Bunbury earnestly, "you appreciate the fine sentimental value of this one
last tie? As long as our prize-money is in the keeping of the Service we can still think of
it with intimate regard; we can still call ourselves BEATTY'S boys and hide our blushes when
the people sing 'Rule, Britannia.' You must see that this is the only large-hearted way of
looking at the matter."

"Bunbury, old sailor," I said, swallowing a lump in my throat, "you have done me good; you
have made me feel ashamed of myself."

       *       *       *       *       *

