20. IN GIVING A CHARACTER, it is scarcely necessary to say that the mistress should be guided
by a sense of strict justice. It is not fair for one lady to recommend to another, a servant
she would not keep herself. The benefit, too, to the servant herself is of small advantage;
for the failings which she possesses will increase if suffered to be indulged with impunity.
It is hardly necessary to remark, on the other hand, that no angry feelings on the part of
a mistress towards her late servant, should ever be allowed, in the slightest degree, to influence
her, so far as to induce her to disparage her maid's character.

21. THE FOLLOWING TABLE OF THE AVERAGE YEARLY WAGES paid to domestics, with the various members
of the household placed in the order in which they are usually ranked, will serve as a guide
to regulate the expenditure of an establishment:--

                      When not found in          When found in
                          Livery.                   Livery.

  The House Steward   From £10 to £80               --
  The Valet             "  25 to 50             From £20 to £30
  The Butler            "  25 to 50                 --
  The Cook              "  20 to 40                 --
  The Gardener          "  20 to 40                 --
  The Footman           "  20 to 40              "  15 to 25
  The Under Butler      "  15 to 30              "  15 to 25
  The Coachman              --                   "  20 to 35
  The Groom             "  15 to 30              "  12 to 20
  The Under Footman          --                  "  12 to 20
  The Page or Footboy   "  8 to 18               "  6 to  14
  The Stableboy         "  6 to 12                  --

                    When no extra             When an extra
                 allowance is made for    allowance is made for
                  Tea, Sugar, and Beer.   Tea, Sugar, and Beer.

  The Housekeeper    From £20 to £15          From £18 to £40
  The Lady's-maid        " 12 to 25           "  10 to 20
  The Head Nurse         " 15 to 30           "  13 to 26
  The Cook               " 11 to 30           "  12 to 26
  The Upper Housemaid    " 12 to 20           "  10 to 17
  The Upper Laundry-maid " 12 to 18           "  10 to 15
  The Maid-of-all-work   " 9 to 14            "  7-1/2 to 11
  The Under Housemaid    " 8 to 12            "  6-1/2 to 10
  The Still-room Maid    " 9 to 14            "  8 to 13
  The Nursemaid          " 8 to 12            "  5 to 10
  The Under Laundry-maid " 9 to 11            "  8 to 12
  The Kitchen-maid       " 9 to 14            "  8 to 12
  The Scullery-maid      " 5 to 9             "  4 to 8

    These quotations of wages are those usually given in or near the
    metropolis; but, of course, there are many circumstances
    connected with locality, and also having reference to the long
    service on the one hand, or the inexperience on the other, of
    domestics, which may render the wages still higher or lower than
    those named above. All the domestics mentioned in the above
    table would enter into the establishment of a wealthy nobleman.
    The number of servants, of course, would become smaller in
    proportion to the lesser size of the establishment; and we may
    here enumerate a scale of servants suited to various incomes,
    commencing with--

  About £1,000 a year--A cook, upper housemaid, nursemaid, under
                housemaid,
       and a man servant.
  About £750 a year--A cook, housemaid, nursemaid, and footboy.
  About £500 a year--A cook, housemaid, and nursemaid.
  About £300 a year--A maid-of-all-work and nursemaid.
  About £200 or £150 a year--A maid-of-all-work (and girl occasionally).

22. HAVING THUS INDICATED some of the more general duties of the mistress, relative to the
moral government of her household, we will now give a few specific instructions on matters
having a more practical relation to the position which she is supposed to occupy in the eye
of the world. To do this the more clearly, we will begin with her earliest duties, and take
her completely through the occupations of a day.

23. HAVING RISEN EARLY, as we have already advised (see 3), and having given due attention
to the bath, and made a careful toilet, it will be well at once to see that the children have
received their proper ablutions, and are in every way clean and comfortable. The first meal
of the day, breakfast, will then be served, at which all the family should be punctually present,
unless illness, or other circumstances, prevent.

24. AFTER BREAKFAST IS OVER, it will be well for the mistress to make a round of the kitchen
and other offices, to see that all are in order, and that the morning's work has been properly
performed by the various domestics. The orders for the day should then be given, and any questions
which the domestics desire to ask, respecting their several departments, should be answered,
and any special articles they may require, handed to them from the store-closet.

    In those establishments where there is a housekeeper, it will
    not be so necessary for the mistress, personally, to perform the
    above-named duties.

25. AFTER THIS GENERAL SUPERINTENDENCE of her servants, the mistress, if a mother of a young
family, may devote herself to the instruction of some of its younger members, or to the examination
of the state of their wardrobe, leaving the later portion of the morning for reading, or for
some amusing recreation. "Recreation," says Bishop Hall, "is intended to the mind as whetting
is to the scythe, to sharpen the edge of it, which would otherwise grow dull and blunt. He,
therefore, that spends his whole time in recreation is ever whetting, never mowing; his grass
may grow and his steed starve; as, contrarily, he that always toils and never recreates, is
ever mowing, never whetting, labouring much to little purpose. As good no scythe as no edge.
Then only doth the work go forward, when the scythe is so seasonably and moderately whetted
that it may cut, and so cut, that it may have the help of sharpening."

    Unless the means of the mistress be very circumscribed, and she
    be obliged to devote a great deal of her time to the making of
    her children's clothes, and other economical pursuits, it is
    right that she should give some time to the pleasures of
    literature, the innocent delights of the garden, and to the
    improvement of any special abilities for music, painting, and
    other elegant arts, which she may, happily, possess.

26. THESE DUTIES AND PLEASURES BEING PERFORMED AND ENJOYED, the hour of luncheon will have
arrived. This is a very necessary meal between an early breakfast and a late dinner, as a healthy
person, with good exercise, should have a fresh supply of food once in four hours. It should
be a light meal; but its solidity must, of course, be, in some degree, proportionate to the
time it is intended to enable you to wait for your dinner, and the amount of exercise you take
in the mean time. At this time, also, the servants' dinner will be served.

    In those establishments where an early dinner is served, that
    will, of course, take the place of the luncheon. In many houses,
    where a nursery dinner is provided for the children and about
    one o'clock, the mistress and the elder portion of the family
    make their luncheon at the same time from the same joint, or
    whatever may be provided. A mistress will arrange, according to
    circumstances, the serving of the meal; but the more usual plan
    is for the lady of the house to have the joint brought to her
    table, and afterwards carried to the nursery.

27. AFTER LUNCHEON, MORNING CALLS AND VISITS may be made and received. These may be divided
under three heads: those of ceremony, friendship, and congratulation or condolence. Visits
of ceremony, or courtesy, which occasionally merge into those of friendship, are to be paid
under various circumstances. Thus, they are uniformly required after dining at a friend's house,
or after a ball, picnic, or any other party. These visits should be short, a stay of from fifteen
to twenty minutes being quite sufficient. A lady paying a visit may remove her boa or neckerchief;
but neither her shawl nor bonnet.

    When other visitors are announced, it is well to retire as soon
    as possible, taking care to let it appear that their arrival is
    not the cause. When they are quietly seated, and the bustle of
    their entrance is over, rise from your chair, taking a kind
    leave of the hostess, and bowing politely to the guests. Should
    you call at an inconvenient time, not having ascertained the
    luncheon hour, or from any other inadvertence, retire as soon as
    possible, without, however, showing that you feel yourself an
    intruder. It is not difficult for any well-bred or even
    good-tempered person, to know what to say on such an occasion,
    and, on politely withdrawing, a promise can be made to call
    again, if the lady you have called on, appear really
    disappointed.

28. IN PAYING VISITS OF FRIENDSHIP, it will not be so necessary to be guided by etiquette as
in paying visits of ceremony; and if a lady be pressed by her friend to remove her shawl and
bonnet, it can be done if it will not interfere with her subsequent arrangements. It is, however,
requisite to call at suitable times, and to avoid staying too long, if your friend is engaged.
The courtesies of society should ever be maintained, even in the domestic circle, and amongst
the nearest friends. During these visits, the manners should be easy and cheerful, and the
subjects of conversation such as may be readily terminated. Serious discussions or arguments
are to be altogether avoided, and there is much danger and impropriety in expressing opinions
of those persons and characters with whom, perhaps, there is but a slight acquaintance. (See
6, 7, and 9.)

    It is not advisable, at any time, to take favourite dogs into
    another lady's drawing-room, for many persons have an absolute
    dislike to such animals; and besides this, there is always a
    chance of a breakage of some article occurring, through their
    leaping and bounding here and there, sometimes very much to the
    fear and annoyance of the hostess. Her children, also, unless
    they are particularly well-trained and orderly, and she is on
    exceedingly friendly terms with the hostess, should not
    accompany a lady in making morning calls. Where a lady, however,
    pays her visits in a carriage, the children can be taken in the
    vehicle, and remain in it until the visit is over.

29. FOR MORNING CALLS, it is well to be neatly attired; for a costume very different to that
you generally wear, or anything approaching an evening dress, will be very much out of place.
As a general rule, it may be said, both in reference to this and all other occasions, it is
better to be under-dressed than over-dressed.

    A strict account should be kept of ceremonial visits, and notice
    how soon your visits have been returned. An opinion may thus be
    formed as to whether your frequent visits are, or are not,
    desirable. There are, naturally, instances when the
    circumstances of old age or ill health will preclude any return
    of a call; but when this is the case, it must not interrupt the
    discharge of the duty.

30. IN PAYING VISITS OF CONDOLENCE, it is to be remembered that they should be paid within
a week after the event which occasions them. If the acquaintance, however, is but slight, then
immediately after the family has appeared at public worship. A lady should send in her card,
and if her friends be able to receive her, the visitor's manner and conversation should be
subdued and in harmony with the character of her visit. Courtesy would dictate that a mourning
card should be used, and that visitors, in paying condoling visits, should be dressed in black,
either silk or plain-coloured apparel. Sympathy with the affliction of the family, is thus
expressed, and these attentions are, in such cases, pleasing and soothing.

    In all these visits, if your acquaintance or friend be not at
    home, a card should be left. If in a carriage, the servant will
    answer your inquiry and receive your card; if paying your visits
    on foot, give your card to the servant in the hall, but leave to
    go in and rest should on no account be asked. The form of words,
    "Not at home," may be understood in different senses; but the
    only courteous way is to receive them as being perfectly true.
    You may imagine that the lady of the house is really at home,
    and that she would make an exception in your favour, or you may
    think that your acquaintance is not desired; but, in either
    case, not the slightest word is to escape you, which would
    suggest, on your part, such an impression.

31. IN RECEIVING MORNING CALLS, the foregoing description of the etiquette to be observed in
paying them, will be of considerable service. It is to be added, however, that the occupations
of drawing, music, or reading should be suspended on the entrance of morning visitors. If a
lady, however, be engaged with light needlework, and none other is appropriate in the drawing-room,
it may not be, under some circumstances, inconsistent with good breeding to quietly continue
it during conversation, particularly if the visit be protracted, or the visitors be gentlemen.

    Formerly the custom was to accompany all visitors quitting the
    house to the door, and there take leave of them; but modern
    society, which has thrown off a great deal of this kind of
    ceremony, now merely requires that the lady of the house should
    rise from her seat, shake hands, or courtesy, in accordance with
    the intimacy she has with her guests, and ring the bell to
    summon the servant to attend them and open the door. In making a
    first call, either upon a newly-married couple, or persons newly
    arrived in the neighbourhood, a lady should leave her husband's
    card together with her own, at the same time, stating that the
    profession or business in which he is engaged has prevented him
    from having the pleasure of paying the visit, with her. It is a
    custom with many ladies, when on the eve of an absence from
    their neighbourhood, to leave or send their own and husband's
    cards, with the letters P. P. C. in the right-hand corner. These
    letters are the initials of the French words, "Pour prendre
    congé," meaning, "To take leave."

32. THE MORNING CALLS BEING PAID OR RECEIVED, and their etiquette properly attended to, the
next great event of the day in most establishments is "The Dinner;" and we only propose here
to make a few general remarks on this important topic, as, in future pages, the whole "Art
of Dining" will be thoroughly considered, with reference to its economy, comfort, and enjoyment.

33. IN GIVING OR ACCEPTING AN INVITATION FOR DINNER, the following is the form of words generally
made use of. They, however, can be varied in proportion to the intimacy or position of the
hosts and guests:--

  Mr. and Mrs. A---- present their compliments to Mr. and Mrs. B----,
  and request the honour, [or hope to have the pleasure] of their
                company
  to dinner on Wednesday, the 6th of December next.

  A---- STREET,
  November 13th, 1859. R. S. V. P.

The letters in the corner imply "Répondez, s'il vous plaît;" meaning, "an answer will oblige."
The reply, accepting the invitation, is couched in the following terms:--

  Mr. and Mrs. B---- present their compliments to Mr. and Mrs. A---, and
  will do themselves the honour of, [or will have much pleasure in]
  accepting their kind invitation to dinner on the 6th of December next.

  B---- SQUARE,
  November 18th, 1859.

    Cards, or invitations for a dinner-party, should be issued a
    fortnight or three weeks (sometimes even a month) beforehand,
    and care should be taken by the hostess, in the selection of the
    invited guests, that they should be suited to each other. Much
    also of the pleasure of a dinner-party will depend on the
    arrangement of the guests at table, so as to form a due
    admixture of talkers and listeners, the grave and the gay. If an
    invitation to dinner is accepted, the guests should be punctual,
    and the mistress ready in her drawing-room to receive them. At
    some periods it has been considered fashionable to come late to
    dinner, but lately nous avons changé tout cela.

34. THE HALF-HOUR BEFORE DINNER has always been considered as the great ordeal through which
the mistress, in giving a dinner-party, will either pass with flying colours, or, lose many
of her laurels. The anxiety to receive her guests,--her hope that all will be present in due
time,--her trust in the skill of her cook, and the attention of the other domestics, all tend
to make these few minutes a trying time. The mistress, however, must display no kind of agitation,
but show her tact in suggesting light and cheerful subjects of conversation, which will be
much aided by the introduction of any particular new book, curiosity of art, or article of
vertu, which may pleasantly engage the attention of the company. "Waiting for Dinner," however,
is a trying time, and there are few who have not felt--

 "How sad it is to sit and pine,
  The long half-hour before we dine!
  Upon our watches oft to look,
  Then wonder at the clock and cook,
         *       *       *       *       *
 "And strive to laugh in spite of Fate!
  But laughter forced soon quits the room,
  And leaves it in its former gloom.
  But lo! the dinner now appears,
  The object of our hopes and fears,
                The end of all our pain!"

    In giving an entertainment of this kind, the mistress should
    remember that it is her duty to make her guests feel happy,
    comfortable, and quite at their ease; and the guests should also
    consider that they have come to the house of their hostess to be
    happy. Thus an opportunity is given to all for innocent
    enjoyment and intellectual improvement, when also acquaintances
    may be formed that may prove invaluable through life, and
    information gained that will enlarge the mind. Many celebrated
    men and women have been great talkers; and, amongst others, the
    genial Sir Walter Scott, who spoke freely to every one, and a
    favourite remark of whom it was, that he never did so without
    learning something he didn't know before.

35. DINNER BEING ANNOUNCED, the host offers his arm to, and places on his right hand at the
dinner-table, the lady to whom he desires to pay most respect, either on account of her age,
position, or from her being the greatest stranger in the party. If this lady be married and
her husband present, the latter takes the hostess to her place at table, and seats himself
at her right hand. The rest of the company follow in couples, as specified by the master and
mistress of the house, arranging the party according to their rank and other circumstances
which may be known to the host and hostess.

    It will be found of great assistance to the placing of a party
    at the dinner-table, to have the names of the guests neatly (and
    correctly) written on small cards, and placed at that part of
    the table where it is desired they should sit. With respect to
    the number of guests, it has often been said, that a private
    dinner-party should consist of not less than the number of the
    Graces, or more than that of the Muses. A party of ten or twelve
    is, perhaps, in a general way, sufficient to enjoy themselves
    and be enjoyed. White kid gloves are worn by ladies at
    dinner-parties, but should be taken off before the business of
    dining commences.

36. THE GUESTS BEING SEATED AT THE DINNER-TABLE, the lady begins to help the soup, which is
handed round, commencing with the gentleman on her right and on her left, and continuing in
the same order till all are served. It is generally established as a rule, not to ask for soup
or fish twice, as, in so doing, part of the company may be kept waiting too long for the second
course, when, perhaps, a little revenge is taken by looking at the awkward consumer of a second
portion. This rule, however, may, under various circumstances, not be considered as binding.

    It is not usual, where taking wine is en règle, for a
    gentleman to ask a lady to take wine until the fish or soup is
    finished, and then the gentleman honoured by sitting on the
    right of the hostess, may politely inquire if she will do him
    the honour of taking wine with him. This will act as a signal to
    the rest of the company, the gentleman of the house most
    probably requesting the same pleasure of the ladies at his right
    and left. At many tables, however, the custom or fashion of
    drinking wine in this manner, is abolished, and the servant
    fills the glasses of the guests with the various wines suited to
    the course which is in progress.

37. WHEN DINNER IS FINISHED, THE DESSERT is placed on the table, accompanied with finger-glasses.
It is the custom of some gentlemen to wet a corner of the napkin; but the hostess, whose behaviour
will set the tone to all the ladies present, will merely wet the tips of her fingers, which
will serve all the purposes required. The French and other continentals have a habit of gargling
the mouth; but it is a custom which no English gentlewoman should, in the slightest degree,
imitate.

38. WHEN FRUIT HAS BEEN TAKEN, and a glass or two of wine passed round, the time will have
arrived when the hostess will rise, and thus give the signal for the ladies to leave the gentlemen,
and retire to the drawing-room. The gentlemen of the party will rise at the same time, and
he who is nearest the door, will open it for the ladies, all remaining courteously standing
until the last lady has withdrawn. Dr. Johnson has a curious paragraph on the effects of a
dinner on men. This is rather severe, but there may be truth in it.

    In former times, when the bottle circulated freely amongst the
    guests, it was necessary for the ladies to retire earlier than
    they do at present, for the gentlemen of the company soon became
    unfit to conduct themselves with that decorum which is essential
    in the presence of ladies. Thanks, however, to the improvements
    in modern society, and the high example shown to the nation by
    its most illustrious personages, temperance is, in these happy
    days, a striking feature in the character of a gentleman.
    Delicacy of conduct towards the female sex has increased with
    the esteem in which they are now universally held, and thus, the
    very early withdrawing of the ladies from the dining-room is to
    be deprecated. A lull in the conversation will seasonably
    indicate the moment for the ladies' departure.

39. AFTER-DINNER INVITATIONS MAY BE GIVEN; by which we wish to be understood, invitations for
the evening. The time of the arrival of these visitors will vary according to their engagements,
or sometimes will be varied in obedience to the caprices of fashion. Guests invited for the
evening are, however, generally considered at liberty to arrive whenever it will best suit
themselves,--usually between nine and twelve, unless earlier hours are specifically named.
By this arrangement, many fashionable people and others, who have numerous engagements to fulfil,
often contrive to make their appearance at two or three parties in the course of one evening.

40. THE ETIQUETTE OF THE DINNER-PARTY TABLE being disposed of, let us now enter slightly into
that of an evening party or ball. The invitations issued and accepted for either of these,
will be written in the same style as those already described for a dinner-party. They should
be sent out at least three weeks before the day fixed for the event, and should be replied
to within a week of their receipt. By attending to these courtesies, the guests will have time
to consider their engagements and prepare their dresses, and the hostess will, also, know what
will be the number of her party.

    If the entertainment is to be simply an evening party, this must
    be specified on the card or note of invitation. Short or verbal
    invitations, except where persons are exceedingly intimate, or
    are very near relations, are very far from proper, although, of
    course, in this respect and in many other respects, very much
    always depends on the manner in which the invitation is given.
    True politeness, however, should be studied even amongst the
    nearest friends and relations; for the mechanical forms of good
    breeding are of great consequence, and too much familiarity may
    have, for its effect, the destruction of friendship.

41. AS THE LADIES AND GENTLEMEN ARRIVE, each should be shown to a room exclusively provided
for their reception; and in that set apart for the ladies, attendants should be in waiting
to assist in uncloaking, and helping to arrange the hair and toilet of those who require it.
It will be found convenient, in those cases where the number of guests is large, to provide
numbered tickets, so that they can be attached to the cloaks and shawls of each lady, a duplicate
of which should be handed to the guest. Coffee is sometimes provided in this, or an ante-room,
for those who would like to partake of it.

42. AS THE VISITORS ARE ANNOUNCED BY THE SERVANT, it is not necessary for the lady of the house
to advance each time towards the door, but merely to rise from her seat to receive their courtesies
and congratulations. If, indeed, the hostess wishes to show particular favour to some peculiarly
honoured guests, she may introduce them to others, whose acquaintance she may imagine will
be especially suitable and agreeable. It is very often the practice of the master of the house
to introduce one gentleman to another, but occasionally the lady performs this office; when
it will, of course, be polite for the persons thus introduced to take their seats together
for the time being.

    The custom of non-introduction is very much in vogue in many
    houses, and guests are thus left to discover for themselves the
    position and qualities of the people around them. The servant,
    indeed, calls out the names of all the visitors as they arrive,
    but, in many instances, mispronounces them; so that it will not
    be well to follow this information, as if it were an unerring
    guide. In our opinion, it is a cheerless and depressing custom,
    although, in thus speaking, we do not allude to the large
    assemblies of the aristocracy, but to the smaller parties of the
    middle classes.

43. A SEPARATE ROOM OR CONVENIENT BUFFET should be appropriated for refreshments, and to which
the dancers may retire; and cakes and biscuits, with wine negus, lemonade, and ices, handed
round. A supper is also mostly provided at the private parties of the middle classes; and this
requires, on the part of the hostess, a great deal of attention and supervision. It usually
takes place between the first and second parts of the programme of the dances, of which there
should be several prettily written or printed copies distributed about the ball-room.

    In private parties, a lady is not to refuse the invitation of
    a gentleman to dance, unless she be previously engaged. The
    hostess must he supposed to have asked to her house only those
    persons whom she knows to be perfectly respectable and of
    unblemished character, as well as pretty equal in position; and
    thus, to decline the offer of any gentleman present, would be a
    tacit reflection on the master and mistress of the house. It may
    be mentioned here, more especially for the young who will read
    this book, that introductions at balls or evening parties, cease
    with the occasion that calls them forth, no introduction, at
    these times, giving a gentleman a right to address, afterwards,
    a lady. She is, consequently, free, next morning, to pass her
    partner at a ball of the previous evening without the slightest
    recognition.

44. THE BALL IS GENERALLY OPENED, that is, the first place in the first quadrille is occupied,
by the lady of the house. When anything prevents this, the host will usually lead off the dance
with the lady who is either the highest in rank, or the greatest stranger. It will be well
for the hostess, even if she be very partial to the amusement, and a graceful dancer, not to
participate in it to any great extent, lest her lady guests should have occasion to complain
of her monopoly of the gentlemen, and other causes of neglect. A few dances will suffice to
show her interest in the entertainment, without unduly trenching on the attention due to her
guests. In all its parts a ball should be perfect,--

  "The music, and the banquet, and the wine;
  The garlands, the rose-odours, and the flowers."

    The hostess or host, during the progress of a ball, will
    courteously accost and chat with their friends, and take care
    that the ladies are furnished with seats, and that those who
    wish to dance are provided with partners. A gentle hint from the
    hostess, conveyed in a quiet ladylike manner, that certain
    ladies have remained unengaged during several dances, is sure
    not to be neglected by any gentleman. Thus will be studied the
    comfort and enjoyment of the guests, and no lady, in leaving the
    house, will be able to feel the chagrin and disappointment of
    not having been invited to "stand up" in a dance during the
    whole of the evening.

45. WHEN ANY OF THE CARRIAGES OF THE GUESTS ARE ANNOUNCED, or the time for their departure
arrived, they should make a slight intimation to the hostess, without, however, exciting any
observation, that they are about to depart. If this cannot be done, however, without creating
too much bustle, it will be better for the visitors to retire quietly without taking their
leave. During the course of the week, the hostess will expect to receive from every guest a
call, where it is possible, or cards expressing the gratification experienced from her entertainment.
This attention is due to every lady for the pains and trouble she has been at, and tends to
promote social, kindly feelings.

46. HAVING THUS DISCOURSED of parties of pleasure, it will be an interesting change to return
to the more domestic business of the house, although all the details we have been giving of
dinner-parties, balls, and the like, appertain to the department of the mistress. Without a
knowledge of the etiquette to be observed on these occasions, a mistress would be unable to
enjoy and appreciate those friendly pleasant meetings which give, as it were, a fillip to life,
and make the quiet happy home of an English gentlewoman appear the more delightful and enjoyable.
In their proper places, all that is necessary to be known respecting the dishes and appearance
of the breakfast, dinner, tea, and supper tables, will be set forth in this work.

47. A FAMILY DINNER AT HOME, compared with either giving or going to a dinner-party, is, of
course, of much more frequent occurrence, and many will say, of much greater importance. Both,
however, have to be considered with a view to their nicety and enjoyment; and the latter more
particularly with reference to economy. These points will be especially noted in the following
pages on "Household Cookery." Here we will only say, that for both mistress and servants, as
well in large as small households, it will be found, by far, the better plan, to cook and serve
the dinner, and to lay the tablecloth and the sideboard, with the same cleanliness, neatness,
and scrupulous exactness, whether it be for the mistress herself alone, a small family, or
for "company." If this rule be strictly adhered to, all will find themselves increase in managing
skill; whilst a knowledge of their daily duties will become familiar, and enable them to meet
difficult occasions with ease, and overcome any amount of obstacles.

48. OF THE MANNER OF PASSING EVENINGS AT HOME, there is none pleasanter than in such recreative
enjoyments as those which relax the mind from its severer duties, whilst they stimulate it
with a gentle delight. Where there are young people forming a part of the evening circle, interesting
and agreeable pastime should especially be promoted. It is of incalculable benefit to them
that their homes should possess all the attractions of healthful amusement, comfort, and happiness;
for if they do not find pleasure there, they will seek it elsewhere. It ought, therefore, to
enter into the domestic policy of every parent, to make her children feel that home is the
happiest place in the world; that to imbue them with this delicious home-feeling is one of
the choicest gifts a parent can bestow.

    Light or fancy needlework often forms a portion of the evening's
    recreation for the ladies of the household, and this may be
    varied by an occasional game at chess or backgammon. It has
    often been remarked, too, that nothing is more delightful to the
    feminine members of a family, than the reading aloud of some
    good standard work or amusing publication. A knowledge of polite
    literature may be thus obtained by the whole family, especially
    if the reader is able and willing to explain the more difficult
    passages of the book, and expatiate on the wisdom and beauties
    it may contain. This plan, in a great measure, realizes the
    advice of Lord Bacon, who says, "Read not to contradict and
    refute, nor to believe and take for granted, nor to find talk
    and discourse, but to weigh and consider."

49. IN RETIRING FOR THE NIGHT, it is well to remember that early rising is almost impossible,
if late going to bed be the order, or rather disorder, of the house. The younger members of
a family should go early and at regular hours to their beds, and the domestics as soon as possible
after a reasonably appointed hour. Either the master or the mistress of a house should, after
all have gone to their separate rooms, see that all is right with respect to the lights and
fires below; and no servants should, on any account, be allowed to remain up after the heads
of the house have retired.

50. HAVING THUS GONE FROM EARLY RISING TO EARLY RETIRING, there remain only now to be considered
a few special positions respecting which the mistress of the house will be glad to receive
some specific information.

51. WHEN A MISTRESS TAKES A HOUSE in a new locality, it will be etiquette for her to wait until
the older inhabitants of the neighbourhood call upon her; thus evincing a desire, on their
part, to become acquainted with the new comer. It may be, that the mistress will desire an
intimate acquaintance with but few of her neighbours; but it is to be specially borne in mind
that all visits, whether of ceremony, friendship, or condolence, should be punctiliously returned.

52. YOU MAY PERHAPS HAVE BEEN FAVOURED with letters of introduction from some of your friends,
to persons living in the neighbourhood to which you have just come. In this case inclose the
letter of introduction in an envelope with your card. Then, if the person, to whom it is addressed,
calls in the course of a few days, the visit should be returned by you within the week, if
possible. Any breach of etiquette, in this respect, will not readily be excused.

    In the event of your being invited to dinner under the above
    circumstances, nothing but necessity should prevent you from
    accepting the invitation. If, however, there is some distinct
    reason why you cannot accept, let it be stated frankly and
    plainly, for politeness and truthfulness should be ever allied.
    An opportunity should, also, be taken to call in the course of a
    day or two, in order to politely express your regret and
    disappointment at not having been able to avail yourself of
    their kindness.

53. IN GIVING A LETTER OF INTRODUCTION, it should always be handed to your friend, unsealed.
Courtesy dictates this, as the person whom you are introducing would, perhaps, wish to know
in what manner he or she was spoken of. Should you receive a letter from a friend, introducing
to you any person known to and esteemed by the writer, the letter should be immediately acknowledged,
and your willingness expressed to do all in your power to carry out his or her wishes.

54. SUCH ARE THE ONEROUS DUTIES which enter into the position of the mistress of a house, and
such are, happily, with a slight but continued attention, of by no means difficult performance.
She ought always to remember that she is the first and the last, the Alpha and the Omega in
the government of her establishment; and that it is by her conduct that its whole internal
policy is regulated. She is, therefore, a person of far more importance in a community than
she usually thinks she is. On her pattern her daughters model themselves; by her counsels they
are directed; through her virtues all are honoured;--"her children rise up and call her blessed;
her husband, also, and he praiseth her." Therefore, let each mistress always remember her responsible
position, never approving a mean action, nor speaking an unrefined word. Let her conduct be
such that her inferiors may respect her, and such as an honourable and right-minded man may
look for in his wife and the mother of his children. Let her think of the many compliments
and the sincere homage that have been paid to her sex by the greatest philosophers and writers,
both in ancient and modern times. Let her not forget that she has to show herself worthy of
Campbell's compliment when he said,--

  "The world was sad! the garden was a wild!
   And man the hermit sigh'd, till woman smiled."

Cherishing, then, in her breast the respected utterances of the good and the great, let the
mistress of every house rise to the responsibility of its management; so that, in doing her
duty to all around her, she may receive the genuine reward of respect, love, and affection!

Note.--Many mistresses have experienced the horrors of house-hunting, and it is well known
that "three removes are as good (or bad, rather) as a fire." Nevertheless, it being quite evident
that we must, in these days at least, live in houses, and are sometimes obliged to change our
residences, it is well to consider some of the conditions which will add to, or diminish, the
convenience and comfort of our homes.

Although the choice of a house must be dependent on so many different circumstances with different
people, that to give any specific directions on this head would be impossible and useless;
yet it will be advantageous, perhaps, to many, if we point out some of those general features
as to locality, soil, aspect, &c., to which the attention of all house-takers should be carefully
directed.

Regarding the locality, we may say, speaking now more particularly of a town house, that it
is very important to the health and comfort of a family, that the neighbourhood of all factories
of any kind, producing unwholesome effluvia or smells, should be strictly avoided. Neither
is it well to take a house in the immediate vicinity of where a noisy trade is carried on,
as it is unpleasant to the feelings, and tends to increase any existing irritation of the system.

Referring to soils; it is held as a rule, that a gravel soil is superior to any other, as the
rain drains through it very quickly, and it is consequently drier and less damp than clay,
upon which water rests a far longer time. A clay country, too, is not so pleasant for walking
exercise as one in which gravel predominates.

The aspect of the house should be well considered, and it should be borne in mind that the
more sunlight that comes into the house, the healthier is the habitation. The close, fetid
smell which assails one on entering a narrow court, or street, in towns, is to be assigned
to the want of light, and, consequently, air. A house with a south or south-west aspect, is
lighter, warmer, drier, and consequently more healthy, than one facing the north or north-east.

Great advances have been made, during the last few years, in the principles of sanitary knowledge,
and one most essential point to be observed in reference to a house, is its "drainage," as
it has been proved in an endless number of cases, that bad or defective drainage is as certain
to destroy health as the taking of poisons. This arises from its injuriously affecting the
atmosphere; thus rendering the air we breathe unwholesome and deleterious. Let it be borne
in mind, then, that unless a house is effectually drained, the health of its inhabitants is
sure to suffer; and they will be susceptible of ague, rheumatism, diarrhoea, fevers, and cholera.

We now come to an all-important point,--that of the water supply. The value of this necessary
article has also been lately more and more recognized in connection with the question of health
and life; and most houses are well supplied with every convenience connected with water. Let
it, however, be well understood, that no house, however suitable in other respects, can be
desirable, if this grand means of health and comfort is, in the slightest degree, scarce or
impure. No caution can be too great to see that it is pure and good, as well as plentiful;
for, knowing, as we do, that not a single part of our daily food is prepared without it, the
importance of its influence on the health of the inmates of a house cannot be over-rated.

Ventilation is another feature which must not be overlooked. In a general way, enough of air
is admitted by the cracks round the doors and windows; but if this be not the case, the chimney
will smoke; and other plans, such as the placing of a plate of finely-perforated zinc in the
upper part of the window, must be used. Cold air should never be admitted under the doors,
or at the bottom of a room, unless it be close to the fire or stove; for it will flow along
the floor towards the fireplace, and thus leave the foul air in the upper part of the room,
unpurified, cooling, at the same time, unpleasantly and injuriously, the feet and legs of the
inmates.

The rent of a house, it has been said, should not exceed one-eighth of the whole income of
its occupier; and, as a general rule, we are disposed to assent to this estimate, although
there may be many circumstances which would not admit of its being considered infallible.

CHAPTER II.

THE HOUSEKEEPER.

55. AS SECOND IN COMMAND IN THE HOUSE, except in large establishments, where there is a house
steward, the housekeeper must consider herself as the immediate representative of her mistress,
and bring, to the management of the household, all those qualities of honesty, industry, and
vigilance, in the same degree as if she were at the head of her own family. Constantly on the
watch to detect any wrong-doing on the part of any of the domestics, she will overlook all
that goes on in the house, and will see that every department is thoroughly attended to, and
that the servants are comfortable, at the same time that their various duties are properly
performed.

    Cleanliness, punctuality, order, and method, are essentials in
    the character of a good housekeeper. Without the first, no
    household can be said to be well managed. The second is equally
    all-important; for those who are under the housekeeper will take
    their "cue" from her; and in the same proportion as punctuality
    governs her movements, so will it theirs. Order, again, is
    indispensable; for by it we wish to be understood that "there
    should be a place for everything, and everything in its place."
    Method, too, is most necessary; for when the work is properly
    contrived, and each part arranged in regular succession, it will
    be done more quickly and more effectually.

56. A NECESSARY QUALIFICATION FOR A HOUSEKEEPER is, that she should thoroughly understand accounts.
She will have to write in her books an accurate registry of all sums paid for any and every
purpose, all the current expenses of the house, tradesmen's bills, and other extraneous matter.
As we have mentioned under the head of the Mistress (see 16), a housekeeper's accounts should
be periodically balanced, and examined by the head of the house. Nothing tends more to the
satisfaction of both employer and employed, than this arrangement. "Short reckonings make long
friends," stands good in this case, as in others.

    It will be found an excellent plan to take an account of every
    article which comes into the house connected with housekeeping,
    and is not paid for at the time. The book containing these
    entries can then be compared with the bills sent in by the
    various tradesmen, so that any discrepancy can be inquired into
    and set right. An intelligent housekeeper will, by this means,
    too, be better able to judge of the average consumption of each
    article by the household; and if that quantity be, at any time,
    exceeded, the cause may be discovered and rectified, if it
    proceed from waste or carelessness.

57. ALTHOUGH IN THE DEPARTMENT OF THE COOK, the housekeeper does not generally much interfere,
yet it is necessary that she should possess a good knowledge of the culinary art, as, in many
instances, it may be requisite for her to take the superintendence of the kitchen. As a rule,
it may be stated, that the housekeeper, in those establishments where there is no house steward
or man cook, undertakes the preparation of the confectionary, attends to the preserving and
pickling of fruits and vegetables; and, in a general way, to the more difficult branches of
the art of cookery.

    Much of these arrangements will depend, however, on the
    qualifications of the cook; for instance, if she be an able
    artiste, there will be but little necessity for the housekeeper
    to interfere, except in the already noticed articles of
    confectionary, &c. On the contrary, if the cook be not so clever
    an adept in her art, then it will be requisite for the
    housekeeper to give more of her attention to the business of the
    kitchen, than in the former case. It will be one of the duties
    of the housekeeper to attend to the marketing, in the absence of
    either a house steward or man cook.

58. THE DAILY DUTIES OF A HOUSEKEEPER are regulated, in a great measure, by the extent of the
establishment she superintends. She should, however, rise early, and see that all the domestics
are duly performing their work, and that everything is progressing satisfactorily for the preparation
of the breakfast for the household and family. After breakfast, which, in large establishments,
she will take in the "housekeeper's room" with the lady's-maid, butler, and valet, and where
they will be waited on by the still-room maid, she will, on various days set apart for each
purpose, carefully examine the household linen, with a view to its being repaired, or to a
further quantity being put in hand to be made; she will also see that the furniture throughout
the house is well rubbed and polished; and will, besides, attend to all the necessary details
of marketing and ordering goods from the tradesmen.

    The housekeeper's room is generally made use of by the
    lady's-maid, butler, and valet, who take there their breakfast,
    tea, and supper. The lady's-maid will also use this apartment as
    a sitting-room, when not engaged with her lady, or with some
    other duties, which would call her elsewhere. In different
    establishments, according to their size and the rank of the
    family, different rules of course prevail. For instance, in the
    mansions of those of very high rank, and where there is a house
    steward, there are two distinct tables kept, one in the
    steward's room for the principal members of the household, the
    other in the servants' hall, for the other domestics. At the
    steward's dinner-table, the steward and housekeeper preside; and
    here, also, are present the lady's-maid, butler, valet, and head
    gardener. Should any visitors be staying with the family, their
    servants, generally the valet and lady's-maid, will be admitted
    to the steward's table.

59. AFTER DINNER, the housekeeper, having seen that all the members of the establishment have
regularly returned to their various duties, and that all the departments of the household are
in proper working order, will have many important matters claiming her attention. She will,
possibly, have to give the finishing touch to some article of confectionary, or be occupied
with some of the more elaborate processes of the still-room. There may also be the dessert
to arrange, ice-creams to make; and all these employments call for no ordinary degree of care,
taste, and attention.

    The still-room was formerly much more in vogue than at present;
    for in days of "auld lang syne," the still was in constant
    requisition for the supply of sweet-flavoured waters for the
    purposes of cookery, scents and aromatic substances used in the
    preparation of the toilet, and cordials in cases of accidents
    and illness. There are some establishments, however, in which
    distillation is still carried on, and in these, the still-room
    maid has her old duties to perform. In a general way, however,
    this domestic is immediately concerned with the housekeeper. For
    the latter she lights the fire, dusts her room, prepares the
    breakfast-table, and waits at the different meals taken in the
    housekeeper's room (see 58). A still-room maid may learn a
    very great deal of useful knowledge from her intimate connection
    with the housekeeper, and if she be active and intelligent, may
    soon fit herself for a better position in the household.

60. IN THE EVENING, the housekeeper will often busy herself with the necessary preparations
for the next day's duties. Numberless small, but still important arrangements, will have to
be made, so that everything may move smoothly. At times, perhaps, attention will have to be
paid to the breaking of lump-sugar, the stoning of raisins, the washing, cleansing, and drying
of currants, &c. The evening, too, is the best time for setting right her account of the expenditure,
and duly writing a statement of moneys received and paid, and also for making memoranda of
any articles she may require for her storeroom or other departments.

    Periodically, at some convenient time,--for instance, quarterly
    or half-yearly, it is a good plan for the housekeeper to make an
    inventory of everything she has under her care, and compare this
    with the lists of a former period; she will then be able to
    furnish a statement, if necessary, of the articles which, on
    account of time, breakage, loss, or other causes, it has been
    necessary to replace or replenish.

61. IN CONCLUDING THESE REMARKS on the duties of the housekeeper, we will briefly refer to
the very great responsibility which attaches to her position. Like "Caesar's wife," she should
be "above suspicion," and her honesty and sobriety unquestionable; for there are many temptations
to which she is exposed. In a physical point of view, a housekeeper should be healthy and strong,
and be particularly clean in her person, and her hands, although they may show a degree of
roughness, from the nature of some of her employments, yet should have a nice inviting appearance.
In her dealings with the various tradesmen, and in her behaviour to the domestics under her,
the demeanour and conduct of the housekeeper should be such as, in neither case, to diminish,
by an undue familiarity, her authority or influence.

Note.--It will be useful for the mistress and housekeeper to know the best seasons for various
occupations connected with Household Management; and we, accordingly, subjoin a few hints which
we think will prove valuable.

As, in the winter months, servants have much more to do, in consequence of the necessity there
is to attend to the number of fires throughout the household, not much more than the ordinary
every-day work can be attempted.

In the summer, and when the absence of fires gives the domestics more leisure, then any extra
work that is required, can be more easily performed.

The spring is the usual period set apart for house-cleaning, and removing all the dust and
dirt, which will necessarily, with the best of housewives, accumulate during the winter months,
from the smoke of the coal, oil, gas, &c. This season is also well adapted for washing and
bleaching linen, &c., as, the weather, not being then too hot for the exertions necessary in
washing counterpanes, blankets, and heavy things in general, the work is better and more easily
done than in the intense heats of July, which month some recommend for these purposes. Winter
curtains should be taken down, and replaced by the summer white ones; and furs and woollen
cloths also carefully laid by. The former should be well shaken and brushed, and then pinned
upon paper or linen, with camphor to preserve them from the moths. Furs, &c., will be preserved
in the same way. Included, under the general description of house-cleaning, must be understood,
turning out all the nooks and corners of drawers, cupboards, lumber-rooms, lofts, &c., with
a view of getting rid of all unnecessary articles, which only create dirt and attract vermin;
sweeping of chimneys, taking up carpets, painting and whitewashing the kitchen and offices,
papering rooms, when needed, and, generally speaking, the house putting on, with the approaching
summer, a bright appearance, and a new face, in unison with nature. Oranges now should be preserved,
and orange wine made.

The summer will be found, as we have mentioned above, in consequence of the diminution of labour
for the domestics, the best period for examining and repairing household linen, and for "putting
to rights" all those articles which have received a large share of wear and tear during the
dark winter days. In direct reference to this matter, we may here remark, that sheets should
be turned "sides to middle" before they are allowed to get very thin. Otherwise, patching,
which is uneconomical from the time it consumes, and is unsightly in point of appearance, will
have to be resorted to. In June and July, gooseberries, currants, raspberries, strawberries,
and other summer fruits, should be preserved, and jams and jellies made. In July, too, the
making of walnut ketchup should be attended to, as the green walnuts will be approaching perfection
for this purpose. Mixed pickles may also be now made, and it will be found a good plan to have
ready a jar of pickle-juice (for the making of which all information will be given in future
pages), into which to put occasionally some young French beans, cauliflowers, &c.

In the early autumn, plums of various kinds are to be bottled and preserved, and jams and jellies
made. A little later, tomato sauce, a most useful article to have by you, may be prepared;
a supply of apples laid in, if you have a place to keep them, as also a few keeping pears and
filberts. Endeavour to keep also a large vegetable marrow,--it will be found delicious in the
winter.

In October and November, it will be necessary to prepare for the cold weather, and get ready
the winter clothing for the various members of the family. The white summer curtains will now
be carefully put away, the fireplaces, grates, and chimneys looked to, and the House put in
a thorough state of repair, so that no "loose tile" may, at a future day, interfere with your
comfort, and extract something considerable from your pocket.

In December, the principal household duty lies in preparing for the creature comforts of those
near and dear to us, so as to meet old Christmas with a happy face, a contented mind, and a
full larder; and in stoning the plums, washing the currants, cutting the citron, beating the
eggs, and MIXING THE PUDDING, a housewife is not unworthily greeting the genial season of all
good things.

CHAPTER III.

ARRANGEMENT AND ECONOMY OF THE KITCHEN.

62. "THE DISTRIBUTION OF A KITCHEN," says Count Rumford, the celebrated philosopher and physician,
who wrote so learnedly on all subjects connected with domestic economy and architecture, "must
always depend so much on local circumstances, that general rules can hardly be given respecting
it; the principles, however, on which this distribution ought, in all cases, to be made, are
simple and easy to be understood," and, in his estimation, these resolve themselves into symmetry
of proportion in the building and convenience to the cook. The requisites of a good kitchen,
however, demand something more special than is here pointed out. It must be remembered that
it is the great laboratory of every household, and that much of the "weal or woe," as far as
regards bodily health, depends upon the nature of the preparations concocted within its walls.
A good kitchen, therefore, should be erected with a view to the following particulars. 1. Convenience
of distribution in its parts, with largeness of dimension. 2. Excellence of light, height of
ceiling, and good ventilation. 3. Easiness of access, without passing through the house. 4.
Sufficiently remote from the principal apartments of the house, that the members, visitors,
or guests of the family, may not perceive the odour incident to cooking, or hear the noise
of culinary operations. 5. Plenty of fuel and water, which, with the scullery, pantry, and
storeroom, should be so near it, as to offer the smallest possible trouble in reaching them.

    The kitchens of the Middle Ages, in England, are said to have
    been constructed after the fashion of those of the Romans. They
    were generally octagonal, with several fireplaces, but no
    chimneys; neither was there any wood admitted into the building.
    The accompanying cut, fig. 1, represents the turret which was
    erected on the top of the conical roof of the kitchen at
    Glastonbury Abbey, and which was perforated with holes to allow
    the smoke of the fire, as well as the steam from cooking, to
    escape. Some kitchens had funnels or vents below the eaves to
    let out the steam, which was sometimes considerable, as the
    Anglo-Saxons used their meat chiefly in a boiled state. From
    this circumstance, some of their large kitchens had four ranges,
    comprising a boiling-place for small boiled meats, and a
    boiling-house for the great boiler. In private houses the
    culinary arrangements were no doubt different; for Du Cange
    mentions a little kitchen with a chamber, even in a solarium, or
    upper floor.

63. THE SIMPLICITY OF THE PRIMITIVE AGES has frequently been an object of poetical admiration,
and it delights the imagination to picture men living upon such fruits as spring spontaneously
from the earth, and desiring no other beverages to slake their thirst, but such as fountains
and rivers supply. Thus we are told, that the ancient inhabitants of Argos lived principally
on pears; that the Arcadians revelled in acorns, and the Athenians in figs. This, of course,
was in the golden age, before ploughing began, and when mankind enjoyed all kinds of plenty
without having to earn their bread "by the sweat of their brow." This delightful period, however,
could not last for ever, and the earth became barren, and continued unfruitful till Ceres came
and taught the art of sowing, with several other useful inventions. The first whom she taught
to till the ground was Triptolemus, who communicated his instructions to his countrymen the
Athenians. Thence the art was carried into Achaia, and thence into Arcadia. Barley was the
first grain that was used, and the invention of bread-making is ascribed to Pan.

    The use of fire, as an instrument of cookery, must have been
    coeval with this invention of bread, which, being the most
    necessary of all kinds of food, was frequently used in a sense
    so comprehensive as to include both meat and drink. It was, by
    the Greeks, baked under the ashes.

64. IN THE PRIMARY AGES it was deemed unlawful to eat flesh, and when mankind began to depart
from their primitive habits, the flesh of swine was the first that was eaten. For several ages,
it was pronounced unlawful to slaughter oxen, from an estimate of their great value in assisting
men to cultivate the ground; nor was it usual to kill young animals, from a sentiment which
considered it cruel to take away the life of those that had scarcely tasted the joys of existence.

    At this period no cooks were kept, and we know from Homer that
    his ancient heroes prepared and dressed their victuals with
    their own hands. Ulysses, for example, we are told, like a
    modern charwoman, excelled at lighting a fire, whilst Achilles
    was an adept at turning a spit. Subsequently, heralds, employed
    in civil and military affairs, filled the office of cooks, and
    managed marriage feasts; but this, no doubt, was after mankind
    had advanced in the art of living, a step further than
    roasting, which, in all places, was the ancient manner of
    dressing meat.

65. THE AGE OF ROASTING we may consider as that in which the use of the metals would be introduced
as adjuncts to the culinary art; and amongst these, iron, the most useful of them all, would
necessarily take a prominent place. This metal is easily oxidized, but to bring it to a state
of fusibility, it requires a most intense heat. Of all the metals, it is the widest diffused
and most abundant; and few stones or mineral bodies are without an admixture of it. It possesses
the valuable property of being welded by hammering; and hence its adaptation to the numerous
purposes of civilized life.

    Metallic grains of iron have been found in strawberries, and a
    twelfth of the weight of the wood of dried oak is said to
    consist of this metal. Blood owes its colour of redness to the
    quantity of iron it contains, and rain and snow are seldom
    perfectly free from it. In the arts it is employed in three
    states,--as cast iron, wrought iron, and steel. In each of
    these it largely enters into the domestic economy, and stoves,
    grates, and the general implements of cookery, are usually
    composed of it. In antiquity, its employment was, comparatively
    speaking, equally universal. The excavations made at Pompeii
    have proved this. The accompanying cuts present us with
    specimens of stoves, both ancient and modern. Fig. 2 is the
    remains of a kitchen stove found in the house of Pansa, at
    Pompeii, and would seem, in its perfect state, not to have been
    materially different from such as are in use at the present day.
    Fig. 3 is a self-acting, simple open range in modern use, and
    may be had of two qualities, ranging, according to their
    dimensions, from £3. 10s. and £3. 18s. respectively, up to £4.
    10s. and £7. 5s. They are completely fitted up with oven,
    boiler, sliding cheek, wrought-iron bars, revolving shelves, and
    brass tap. Fig. 4, is called the Improved Leamington Kitchener,
    and is said to surpass any other range in use, for easy cooking
    by one fire. It has a hot plate, which is well calculated for an
    ironing-stove, and on which as many vessels as will stand upon
    it, may be kept boiling, without being either soiled or injured.
    Besides, it has a perfectly ventilated and spacious wrought-iron
    roaster, with movable shelves, draw-out stand, double
    dripping-pan, and meat-stand. The roaster can be converted into
    an oven by closing the valves, when bread and pastry can be
    baked in it in a superior manner. It also has a large iron
    boiler with brass tap and steam-pipe, round and square gridirons
    for chops and steaks, ash-pan, open fire for roasting, and a set
    of ornamental covings with plate-warmer attached. It took a
    first-class prize and medal in the Great Exhibition of 1851, and
    was also exhibited, with all the recent improvements, at the
    Dublin Exhibition in 1853. Fig. 5 is another kitchener, adapted
    for large families. It has on the one side, a large ventilated
    oven; and on the other, the fire and roaster. The hot plate is
    over all, and there is a back boiler, made of wrought iron, with
    brass tap and steam-pipe. In other respects it resembles Fig. 4,
    with which it possesses similar advantages of construction.
    Either maybe had at varying prices, according to size, from £5.
    15s. up to £23. 10s. They are supplied by Messrs. Richard & John
    Slack 336, Strand, London.

66. FROM KITCHEN RANGES to the implements used in cookery is but a step. With these, every
kitchen should be well supplied, otherwise the cook must not be expected to "perform her office"
in a satisfactory manner. Of the culinary utensils of the ancients, our knowledge is very limited;
but as the art of living, in every civilized country, is pretty much the same, the instruments
for cooking must, in a great degree, bear a striking resemblance to each other. On referring
to classical antiquities, we find mentioned, among household utensils, leather bags, baskets
constructed of twigs, reeds, and rushes; boxes, basins, and bellows; bread-moulds, brooms,
and brushes; caldrons, colanders, cisterns, and chafing-dishes; cheese-rasps, knives, and ovens
of the Dutch kind; funnels and frying-pans; handmills, soup-ladles, milk-pails, and oil-jars;
presses, scales, and sieves; spits of different sizes, but some of them large enough to roast
an ox; spoons, fire-tongs, trays, trenchers, and drinking-vessels; with others for carrying
food, preserving milk, and holding cheese. This enumeration, if it does nothing else, will,
to some extent, indicate the state of the simpler kinds of mechanical arts among the ancients.

    In so far as regards the shape and construction of many of the
    kitchen utensils enumerated above, they bore a great resemblance
    to our own. This will be seen by the accompanying cuts. Fig. 6
    is an ancient stock-pot in bronze, which seems to have been made
    to hang over the fire, and was found in the buried city of
    Pompeii. Fig. 7 is one of modern make, and may be obtained
    either of copper or wrought iron, tinned inside. Fig. 8 is
    another of antiquity, with a large ladle and colander, with
    holes attached. It is taken from the column of Trajan. The
    modern ones can be obtained at all prices, according to size,
    from 13s. 6d. up to £1. 1s.

67. IN THE MANUFACTURE OF THESE UTENSILS, bronze metal seems to have been much in favour with
the ancients. It was chosen not only for their domestic vessels, but it was also much used
for their public sculptures and medals. It is a compound, composed of from six to twelve parts
of tin to one hundred of copper. It gives its name to figures and all pieces of sculpture made
of it. Brass was another favourite metal, which is composed of copper and zinc. It is more
fusible than copper, and not so apt to tarnish. In a pure state it is not malleable, unless
when hot, and after it has been melted twice it will not bear the hammer. To render it capable
of being wrought, it requires 7 lb. of lead to be put to 1 cwt. of its own material.

    The Corinthian brass of antiquity was a mixture of silver, gold,
    and copper. A fine kind of brass, supposed to be made by the
    cementation of copper plates with calamine, is, in Germany,
    hammered out into leaves, and is called Dutch metal in this
    country. It is employed in the same way as gold leaf. Brass is
    much used for watchworks, as well as for wire.

68. The braziers, ladles, stewpans, saucepans, gridirons, and colanders of antiquity might
generally pass for those of the English manufacture of the present day, in so far as shape
is concerned. In proof of this we have placed together the following similar articles of ancient
and modern pattern, in order that the reader may, at a single view, see wherein any difference
that is between them, consists.

    Figs. 9 and 10 are flat sauce or sauté pans, the ancient one
    being fluted in the handle, and having at the end a ram's head.
    Figs. 11 and 12 are colanders, the handle of the ancient one
    being adorned, in the original, with carved representations of a
    cornucopia, a satyr, a goat, pigs, and other animals. Any
    display of taste in the adornment of such utensils, might seem
    to be useless; but when we remember how much more natural it is
    for us all to be careful of the beautiful and costly, than of
    the plain and cheap, it may even become a question in the
    economy of a kitchen, whether it would not, in the long run, be
    cheaper to have articles which displayed some tasteful ingenuity
    in their manufacture, than such as are so perfectly plain as to
    have no attractions whatever beyond their mere suitableness to
    the purposes for which they are made. Figs. 13 and 14 are
    saucepans, the ancient one being of bronze, originally copied
    from the cabinet of M. l'Abbé Charlet, and engraved in the
    Antiquities of Montfaucon. Figs. 15 and 17 are gridirons, and 16
    and 18 dripping-pans. In all these utensils the resemblance
    between such as were in use 2,000 years ago, and those in use at
    the present day, is strikingly manifest.

69. SOME OF THE ANCIENT UTENSILS represented in the above cuts, are copied from those found
amid the ruins of Herculaneum and Pompeii. These Roman cities were, in the first century, buried
beneath the lava of an eruption of Vesuvius, and continued to be lost to the world till the
beginning of the last century, when a peasant, in digging for a well, gradually discovered
a small temple with some statues. Little notice, however, was taken of this circumstance till
1736, when the king of Naples, desiring to erect a palace at Portici, caused extensive excavations
to be made, when the city of Herculaneum was slowly unfolded to view. Pompeii was discovered
about 1750, and being easier cleared from the lava in which it had so long been entombed, disclosed
itself as it existed immediately before the catastrophe which overwhelmed it, nearly two thousand
years ago. It presented, to the modern world, the perfect picture of the form and structure
of an ancient Roman city. The interior of its habitations, shops, baths, theatres, and temples,
were all disclosed, with many of the implements used by the workmen in their various trades,
and the materials on which they were employed, when the doomed city was covered with the lavian
stream.

70. AMONGST THE MOST ESSENTIAL REQUIREMENTS of the kitchen are scales or weighing-machines
for family use. These are found to have existed among the ancients, and must, at a very early
age, have been both publicly and privately employed for the regulation of quantities. The modern
English weights were adjusted by the 27th chapter of Magna Charta, or the great charter forced,
by the barons, from King John at Runnymede, in Surrey. Therein it is declared that the weights,
all over England, shall be the same, although for different commodities there were two different
kinds, Troy and Avoirdupois. The origin of both is taken from a grain of wheat gathered in
the middle of an ear. The standard of measures was originally kept at Winchester, and by a
law of King Edgar was ordained to be observed throughout the kingdom.

    Fig. 19 is an ancient pair of common scales, with two basins and
    a movable weight, which is made in the form of a head, covered
    with the pileus, because Mercury had the weights and measures
    under his superintendence. It is engraved on a stone in the
    gallery of Florence. Fig. 20 represents a modern
    weighing-machine, of great convenience, and generally in use in
    those establishments where a great deal of cooking is carried
    on.

71. ACCOMPANYING THE SCALES, or weighing-machines, there should be spice-boxes, and sugar and
biscuit-canisters of either white or japanned tin. The covers of these should fit tightly,
in order to exclude the air, and if necessary, be lettered in front, to distinguish them. The
white metal of which they are usually composed, loses its colour when exposed to the air, but
undergoes no further change. It enters largely into the composition of culinary utensils, many
of them being entirely composed of tinned sheet-iron; the inside of copper and iron vessels
also, being usually what is called tinned. This art consists of covering any metal with a thin
coating of tin; and it requires the metal to be covered, to be perfectly clean and free from
rust, and also that the tin, itself, be purely metallic, and entirely cleared from all ashes
or refuse. Copper boilers, saucepans, and other kitchen utensils, are tinned after they are
manufactured, by being first made hot and the tin rubbed on with resin. In this process, nothing
ought to be used but pure grain-tin. Lead, however, is sometimes mixed with that metal, not
only to make it lie more easily, but to adulterate it--a pernicious practice, which in every
article connected with the cooking and preparation of food, cannot be too severely reprobated.--The
following list, supplied by Messrs. Richard & John Slack, 336, Strand, will show the articles
required for the kitchen of a family in the middle class of life, although it does not contain
all the things that may be deemed necessary for some families, and may contain more than are
required for others. As Messrs. Slack themselves, however, publish a useful illustrated catalogue,
which may be had at their establishment gratis, and which it will be found advantageous to
consult by those about to furnish, it supersedes the necessity of our enlarging that which
we give:--

                                 s.  d.

  1 Tea-kettle                   6   6
  1 Toasting-fork                1   0
  1 Bread-grater                 1   0
  1 Pair of Brass Candlesticks   3   6
  1 Teapot and Tray              6   6
  1 Bottle-jack                  9   6
  6 Spoons                       1   6
  2 Candlesticks                 2   6
  1 Candle-box                   1   4
  6 Knives and Forks             5   3
  2 Sets of Skewers              1   0
  1 Meat-chopper                 1   9
  1 Cinder-sifter                1   3
  1 Coffee-pot                   2   3
  1 Colander                     1   6
  3 Block-tin Saucepans          5   9
  5 Iron Saucepans              12   0
  1 Ditto and Steamer            6   6
  1 Large Boiling-pot           10   0
  4 Iron Stewpans                8   9
  1 Dripping-pan and Stand       6   6
  1 Dustpan                      1   0
  1 Fish and Egg-slice           1   9
  2 Fish-kettles                10   0
  1 Flour-box                    1   0
  3 Flat-irons                   3   6
  2 Frying-pans                  4   0
  1 Gridiron                     2   0
  1 Mustard-pot                  1   0
  1 Salt-cellar                  0   8
  1 Pepper-box                   0   6
  1 Pair of Bellows              2   0
  3 Jelly-moulds                 8   0
  1 Plate-basket                 5   6
  1 Cheese-toaster               1  10
  1 Coal-shovel                  2   6
  1 Wood Meat-screen            30   0

  The Set                  £8   11   1

72. AS NOT ONLY HEALTH BUT LIFE may be said to depend on the cleanliness of culinary utensils,
great attention must be paid to their condition generally, but more especially to that of the
saucepans, stewpans, and boilers. Inside they should be kept perfectly clean, and where an
open fire is used, the outside as clean as possible. With a Leamington range, saucepans, stewpans,
&c., can be kept entirely free from smoke and soot on the outside, which is an immense saving
of labour to the cook or scullery-maid. Care should be taken that the lids fit tight and close,
so that soups or gravies may not be suffered to waste by evaporation. They should be made to
keep the steam in and the smoke out, and should always be bright on the upper rim, where they
do not immediately come in contact with the fire. Soup-pots and kettles should be washed immediately
After being used, and dried before the fire, and they should be kept in a dry place, in order
that they may escape the deteriorating influence of rust, and, thereby, be destroyed. Copper
utensils should never be used in the kitchen unless tinned, and the utmost care should be taken,
not to let the tin be rubbed off. If by chance this should occur, have it replaced before the
vessel is again brought into use. Neither soup nor gravy should, at any time, be suffered to
remain in them longer than is absolutely necessary, as any fat or acid that is in them, may
affect the metal, so as to impregnate with poison what is intended to be eaten. Stone and earthenware
vessels should be provided for soups and gravies not intended for immediate use, and, also,
plenty of common dishes for the larder, that the table-set may not be used for such purposes.
It is the nature of vegetables soon to turn sour, when they are apt to corrode glazed red-ware,
and even metals, and frequently, thereby, to become impregnated with poisonous particles. The
vinegar also in pickles, by its acidity, does the same. Consideration, therefore, should be
given to these facts, and great care also taken that all sieves, jelly-bags, and tapes for
collared articles, be well scalded and kept dry, or they will impart an unpleasant flavour
when next used. To all these directions the cook should pay great attention, nor should they,
by any means, be neglected by the mistress of the household, who ought to remember that cleanliness
in the kitchen gives health and happiness to home, whilst economy will immeasurably assist
in preserving them.

73. WITHOUT FUEL, A KITCHEN might be pronounced to be of little use; therefore, to discover
and invent materials for supplying us with the means of domestic heat and comfort, has exercised
the ingenuity of man. Those now known have been divided into five classes; the first comprehending
the fluid inflammable bodies; the second, peat or turf; the third, charcoal of wood; the fourth,
pit-coal charred; and the fifth, wood or pit-coal in a crude state, with the capacity of yielding
a copious and bright flame. The first may be said seldom to be employed for the purposes of
cookery; but peat, especially amongst rural populations, has, in all ages, been regarded as
an excellent fuel. It is one of the most important productions of an alluvial soil, and belongs
to the vegetable rather than the mineral kingdom. It may be described as composed of wet, spongy
black earth, held together by decayed vegetables. Formerly it covered extensive tracts in England,
but has greatly disappeared before the genius of agricultural improvement. Charcoal is a kind
of artificial coal, used principally where a strong and clear fire is desired. It is a black,
brittle, insoluble, inodorous, tasteless substance, and, when newly-made, possesses the remarkable
property of absorbing certain quantities of the different gases. Its dust, when used as a polishing
powder, gives great brilliancy to metals. It consists of wood half-burned, and is manufactured
by cutting pieces of timber into nearly the same size, then disposing them in heaps, and covering
them with earth, so as to prevent communication with the air, except when necessary to make
them burn. When they have been sufficiently charred, the fire is extinguished by stopping the
vents through which the air is admitted. Of coal there are various species; as, pit, culm,
slate, cannel, Kilkenny, sulphurous, bovey, jet, &c. These have all their specific differences,
and are employed for various purposes; but are all, more or less, used as fuel.

    The use of coal for burning purposes was not known to the
    Romans. In Britain it was discovered about fifty years before
    the birth of Christ, in Lancashire, not tar from where
    Manchester now stands; but for ages after its discovery, so long
    as forests abounded, wood continued to be the fuel used for
    firing. The first public notice of coal is in the reign of Henry
    III., who, in 1272, granted a charter to the town of Newcastle,
    permitting the inhabitants to dig for coal. It took some
    centuries more, however, to bring it into common use, as this
    did not take place till about the first quarter of the
    seventeenth century, in the time of Charles I. A few years after
    the Restoration, we find that about 200,000 chaldrons were
    consumed in London. Although several countries possess mines of
    coal, the quality of their mineral is, in general, greatly
    inferior to that of Great Britain, where it is found mostly in
    undulating districts abounding with valleys, and interspersed
    with plains of considerable extent. It lies usually between the
    strata of other substances, and rarely in an horizontal
    position, but with a dip or inclination to one side. Our cut,
    Fig. 21, represents a section of coal as it is found in the
    stratum.

74. TO BE ACQUAINTED WITH THE PERIODS when things are in season, is one of the most essential
pieces of knowledge which enter into the "Art of Cookery." We have, therefore, compiled the
following list, which will serve to show for every month in the year the

TIMES WHEN THINGS ARE IN SEASON.

JANUARY.

FISH.--Barbel, brill, carp, cod, crabs, crayfish, dace, eels, flounders, haddocks, herrings,
lampreys, lobsters, mussels, oysters, perch, pike, plaice, prawns, shrimps, skate, smelts,
soles, sprats, sturgeon, tench, thornback, turbot, whitings.

MEAT.--Beef, house lamb, mutton, pork, veal, venison.

POULTRY.--Capons, fowls, tame pigeons, pullets, rabbits, turkeys.

GAME.--Grouse, hares, partridges, pheasants, snipe, wild-fowl, woodcock.

VEGETABLES.--Beetroot, broccoli, cabbages, carrots, celery, chervil, cresses, cucumbers (forced),
endive, lettuces, parsnips, potatoes, savoys, spinach, turnips,--various herbs.

FRUIT.--Apples, grapes, medlars, nuts, oranges, pears, walnuts, crystallized preserves (foreign),
dried fruits, such as almonds and raisins; French and Spanish plums; prunes, figs, dates.

FEBRUARY.

MEAT.--Beef, house lamb, mutton, pork, veal.

POULTRY.--Capons, chickens, ducklings, tame and wild pigeons, pullets with eggs, turkeys, wild-fowl,
though now not in full season.

GAME.--Grouse, hares, partridges, pheasants, snipes, woodcock.

MARCH.

APRIL.

FISH.--Brill, carp, cockles, crabs, dory, flounders, ling, lobsters, red and gray mullet, mussels,
oysters, perch, prawns, salmon (but rather scarce and expensive), shad, shrimps, skate, smelts,
soles, tench, turbot, whitings.

MEAT.--Beef, lamb, mutton, veal.

POULTRY.--Chickens, ducklings, fowls, leverets, pigeons, pullets, rabbits.

GAME.--Hares.

VEGETABLES.--Broccoli, celery, lettuces, young onions, parsnips, radishes, small salad, sea-kale,
spinach, sprouts,--various herbs.

FRUIT.--Apples, nuts, pears, forced cherries, &e. for tarts, rhubarb, dried fruits, crystallized
preserves.

MAY.

FISH.--Carp, chub, crabs, crayfish, dory, herrings, lobsters, mackerel, red and gray mullet,
prawns, salmon, shad, smelts, soles, trout, turbot.

VEGETABLES.--Asparagus, beans, early cabbages, carrots, cauliflowers, creases, cucumbers, lettuces,
pease, early potatoes, salads, sea-kale,--various herbs.

FRUIT.--Apples, green apricots, cherries, currants for tarts, gooseberries, melons, pears,
rhubarb, strawberries.

JUNE.

FISH.--Carp, crayfish, herrings, lobsters, mackerel, mullet, pike, prawns, salmon, soles, tench,
trout, turbot.

MEAT.--Beef, lamb, mutton, veal, buck venison.

POULTRY.--Chickens, ducklings, fowls, green geese, leverets, plovers, pullets, rabbits, turkey
poults, wheatears.

VEGETABLES.--Artichokes, asparagus, beans, cabbages, carrots, cucumbers, lettuces, onions,
parsnips, pease, potatoes, radishes, small salads, sea-kale, spinach,--various herbs.

FRUIT.--Apricots, cherries, currants, gooseberries, melons, nectarines, peaches, pears, pineapples,
raspberries, rhubarb, strawberries.

JULY.

FISH.--Carp, crayfish, dory, flounders, haddocks, herrings, lobsters, mackerel, mullet, pike,
plaice, prawns, salmon, shrimps, soles, sturgeon, tench, thornback.

VEGETABLES.--Artichokes, asparagus, beans, cabbages, carrots, cauliflowers, celery, cresses,
endive, lettuces, mushrooms, onions, pease, radishes, small salading, sea-kale, sprouts, turnips,
vegetable marrow,--various herbs.

FRUIT.--Apricots, cherries, currants, figs, gooseberries, melons, nectarines, pears, pineapples,
plums, raspberries, strawberries, walnuts in high season, and pickled.

AUGUST.

GAME.--Leverets, grouse, blackcock.

FRUIT.--Currants, figs, filberts, gooseberries, grapes, melons, mulberries, nectarines, peaches,
pears, pineapples, plums, raspberries, walnuts.

SEPTEMBER.

FISH.--Brill, carp, cod, eels, flounders, lobsters, mullet, oysters, plaice, prawns, skate,
soles, turbot, whiting, whitebait.

MEAT.--Beef, lamb, mutton, pork, veal.

POULTRY.--Chickens, ducks, fowls, geese, larks, pigeons, pullets, rabbits, teal, turkeys.

GAME.--Blackcock, buck venison, grouse, hares, partridges, pheasants.

VEGETABLES.--Artichokes, asparagus, beans, cabbage sprouts, carrots, celery, lettuces, mushrooms,
onions, pease, potatoes, salading, sea-kale, sprouts, tomatoes, turnips, vegetable marrows,--various
herbs.

FRUIT.--Bullaces, damsons, figs, filberts, grapes, melons, morella-cherries, mulberries, nectarines,
peaches, pears, plums, quinces, walnuts.

OCTOBER.

FISH.--Barbel, brill, cod, crabs, eels, flounders, gudgeons, haddocks, lobsters, mullet, oysters,
plaice, prawns, skate, soles, tench, turbot, whiting.

MEAT.--Beef, mutton, pork, veal, venison.

GAME.--Blackcock, grouse, hares, partridges, pheasants, snipes, woodcocks, doe venison.

VEGETABLES.--Artichokes, beets, cabbages, cauliflowers, carrots, celery, lettuces, mushrooms,
onions, potatoes, sprouts, tomatoes, turnips, vegetable marrows,--various herbs.

FRUIT.--Apples, black and white bullaces, damsons, figs, filberts, grapes, pears, quinces, walnuts.

NOVEMBER.

FISH.--Brill, carp, cod, crabs, eels, gudgeons, haddocks, oysters, pike, soles, tench, turbot,
whiting.

GAME.--Hares, partridges, pheasants, snipes, woodcocks.

VEGETABLES.--Beetroot, cabbages, carrots, celery, lettuces, late cucumbers, onions, potatoes,
salading, spinach, sprouts,--various herbs.

FRUIT.--Apples, bullaces, chestnuts, filberts, grapes, pears, walnuts.

DECEMBER.

VEGETABLES.--Broccoli, cabbages, carrots, celery, leeks, onions, potatoes, parsnips, Scotch
kale, turnips, winter spinach.

FRUIT.--Apples, chestnuts, filberts, grapes, medlars, oranges, pears, walnuts, dried fruits,
such as almonds and raisins, figs, dates, &c.,--crystallized preserves.

75. WHEN FUEL AND FOOD ARE PROCURED, the next consideration is, how the latter may be best
preserved, with a view to its being suitably dressed. More waste is often occasioned by the
want of judgment, or of necessary care in this particular, than by any other cause. In the
absence of proper places for keeping provisions, a hanging safe, suspended in an airy situation,
is the best substitute. A well-ventilated larder, dry and shady, is better for meat and poultry,
which require to be kept for some time; and the utmost skill in the culinary art will not compensate
for the want of proper attention to this particular. Though it is advisable that annual food
should be hung up in the open air till its fibres have lost some degree of their toughness,
yet, if it is kept till it loses its natural sweetness, its flavour has become deteriorated,
and, as a wholesome comestible, it has lost many of its qualities conducive to health. As soon,
therefore, as the slightest trace of putrescence is detected, it has reached its highest degree
of tenderness, and should be dressed immediately. During the sultry summer months, it is difficult
to procure meat that is not either tough or tainted. It should, therefore, be well examined
when it comes in, and if flies have touched it, the part must be cut off, and the remainder
well washed. In very cold weather, meat and vegetables touched by the frost, should be brought
into the kitchen early in the morning, and soaked in cold water. In loins of meat, the long
pipe that runs by the bone should be taken out, as it is apt to taint; as also the kernels
of beef. Rumps and edgebones of beef, when bruised, should not be purchased. All these things
ought to enter into the consideration of every household manager, and great care should be
taken that nothing is thrown away, or suffered to be wasted in the kitchen, which might, by
proper management, be turned to a good account. The shank-bones of mutton, so little esteemed
in general, give richness to soups or gravies, if well soaked and brushed before they are added
to the boiling. They are also particularly nourishing for sick persons. Roast-beef bones, or
shank-bones of ham, make excellent stock for pea-soup.--When the whites of eggs are used for
jelly, confectionary, or other purposes, a pudding or a custard should be made, that the yolks
may be used. All things likely to be wanted should be in readiness: sugars of different sorts;
currants washed, picked, and perfectly dry; spices pounded, and kept in very small bottles
closely corked, or in canisters, as we have already directed (72). Not more of these should
be purchased at a time than are likely to be used in the course of a month. Much waste is always
prevented by keeping every article in the place best suited to it. Vegetables keep best on
a stone floor, if the air be excluded; meat, in a cold dry place; as also salt, sugar, sweet-meats,
candles, dried meats, and hams. Rice, and all sorts of seed for puddings, should be closely
covered to preserve them from insects; but even this will not prevent them from being affected
by these destroyers, if they are long and carelessly kept.

CHAPTER IV.

INTRODUCTION TO COOKERY.

76. AS IN THE FINE ARTS, the progress of mankind from barbarism to civilization is marked by
a gradual succession of triumphs over the rude materialities of nature, so in the art of cookery
is the progress gradual from the earliest and simplest modes, to those of the most complicated
and refined. Plain or rudely-carved stones, tumuli, or mounds of earth, are the monuments by
which barbarous tribes denote the events of their history, to be succeeded, only in the long
course of a series of ages, by beautifully-proportioned columns, gracefully-sculptured statues,
triumphal arches, coins, medals, and the higher efforts of the pencil and the pen, as man advances
by culture and observation to the perfection of his facilities. So is it with the art of cookery.
Man, in his primitive state, lives upon roots and the fruits of the earth, until, by degrees,
he is driven to seek for new means, by which his wants may be supplied and enlarged. He then
becomes a hunter and a fisher. As his species increases, greater necessities come upon him,
when he gradually abandons the roving life of the savage for the more stationary pursuits of
the herdsman. These beget still more settled habits, when he begins the practice of agriculture,
forms ideas of the rights of property, and has his own, both defined and secured. The forest,
the stream, and the sea are now no longer his only resources for food. He sows and he reaps,
pastures and breeds cattle, lives on the cultivated produce of his fields, and revels in the
luxuries of the dairy; raises flocks for clothing, and assumes, to all intents and purposes,
the habits of permanent life and the comfortable condition of a farmer. This is the fourth
stage of social progress, up to which the useful or mechanical arts have been incidentally
developing themselves, when trade and commerce begin. Through these various phases, only to
live has been the great object of mankind; but, by-and-by, comforts are multiplied, and accumulating
riches create new wants. The object, then, is not only to live, but to live economically, agreeably,
tastefully, and well. Accordingly, the art of cookery commences; and although the fruits of
the earth, the fowls of the air, the beasts of the field, and the fish of the sea, are still
the only food of mankind, yet these are so prepared, improved, and dressed by skill and ingenuity,
that they are the means of immeasurably extending the boundaries of human enjoyments. Everything
that is edible, and passes under the hands of the cook, is more or less changed, and assumes
new forms. Hence the influence of that functionary is immense upon the happiness of a household.

77. In order that the duties of the Cook may be properly performed, and that he may be able
to reproduce esteemed dishes with certainty, all terms of indecision should be banished from
his art. Accordingly, what is known only to him, will, in these pages, be made known to others.
In them all those indecisive terms expressed by a bit of this, some of that, a small piece
of that, and a handful of the other, shall never be made use of, but all quantities be precisely
and explicitly stated. With a desire, also, that all ignorance on this most essential part
of the culinary art should disappear, and that a uniform system of weights and measures should
be adopted, we give an account of the weights which answer to certain measures.

A TABLE-SPOONFUL is frequently mentioned in a recipe, in the prescriptions of medical men,
and also in medical, chemical, and gastronomical works. By it is generally meant and understood
a measure or bulk equal to that which would be produced by half an ounce of water.

A DESSERT-SPOONFUL is the half of a table-spoonful; that is to say, by it is meant a measure
or bulk equal to a quarter of an ounce of water.

A TEA-SPOONFUL is equal in quantity to a drachm of water.

A DROP.--This is the name of a vague kind of measure, and is so called on account of the liquid
being dropped from the mouth of a bottle. Its quantity, however, will vary, either from the
consistency of the liquid or the size and shape of the mouth of the bottle. The College of
Physicians determined the quantity of a drop to be one grain, 60 drops making one fluid drachm.
Their drop, or sixtieth part of a fluid drachm, is called a minim.

    Graduated class measures can be obtained at any chemist's, and
    they save much trouble. One of these, containing a wine pint, is
    divided into 16 oz., and the oz, into 8 drachms of water; by
    which, any certain weight mentioned in a recipe can be
    accurately measured out. Home-made measures of this kind can
    readily be formed by weighing the water contained in any given
    measure, and marking on any tall glass the space it occupies.
    This mark can easily be made with a file. It will be interesting
    to many readers to know the basis on which the French found
    their system of weights and measures, for it certainly possesses
    the grandeur of simplicity. The metre, which is the basis of the
    whole system of French weights and measures, is the exact
    measurement of one forty-millionth part of a meridian of the
    earth.

78. EXCELLENCE IN THE ART OF COOKERY, as in all other things, is only attainable by practice
and experience. In proportion, therefore, to the opportunities which a cook has had of these,
so will be his excellence in the art. It is in the large establishments of princes, noblemen,
and very affluent families alone, that the man cook is found in this country. He, also, superintends
the kitchens of large hotels, clubs, and public institutions, where he, usually, makes out
the bills of fare, which are generally submitted to the principal for approval. To be able
to do this, therefore, it is absolutely necessary that he should be a judge of the season of
every dish, as well as know perfectly the state of every article he undertakes to prepare.
He must also be a judge of every article he buys; for no skill, however great it may be, will
enable him to, make that good which is really bad. On him rests the responsibility of the cooking
generally, whilst a speciality of his department, is to prepare the rich soups, stews, ragouts,
and such dishes as enter into the more refined and complicated portions of his art, and such
as are not usually understood by ordinary professors. He, therefore, holds a high position
in a household, being inferior in rank, as already shown (21), only to the house steward, the
valet, and the butler.

    In the luxurious ages of Grecian antiquity, Sicilian cooks were
    the most esteemed, and received high rewards for their services.
    Among them, one called Trimalcio was such an adept in his art,
    that he could impart to common fish both the form and flavour of
    the most esteemed of the piscatory tribes. A chief cook in the
    palmy days of Roman voluptuousness had about £800 a year, and
    Antony rewarded the one that cooked the supper which pleased
    Cleopatra, with the present of a city. With the fall of the
    empire, the culinary art sank into less consideration. In the
    middle ages, cooks laboured to acquire a reputation for their
    sauces, which they composed of strange combinations, for the
    sake of novelty, as well as singularity.

79. THE DUTIES OF THE COOK, THE KITCHEN AND THE SCULLERY MAIDS, are so intimately associated,
that they can hardly be treated of separately. The cook, however, is at the head of the kitchen;
and in proportion to her possession of the qualities of cleanliness, neatness, order, regularity,
and celerity of action, so will her influence appear in the conduct of those who are under
her; as it is upon her that the whole responsibility of the business of the kitchen rests,
whilst the others must lend her, both a ready and a willing assistance, and be especially tidy
in their appearance, and active, in their movements.

    In the larger establishments of the middle ages, cooks, with the
    authority of feudal chiefs, gave their orders from a high chair
    in which they ensconced themselves, and commanded a view of all
    that was going on throughout their several domains. Each held a
    long wooden spoon, with which he tasted, without leaving his
    seat, the various comestibles that were cooking on the stoves,
    and which he frequently used as a rod of punishment on the backs
    of those whose idleness and gluttony too largely predominated
    over their diligence and temperance.

80. IF, AS WE HAVE SAID (3), THE QUALITY OF EARLY RISING be of the first importance to the
mistress, what must it be to the servant! Let it, therefore, be taken as a long-proved truism,
that without it, in every domestic, the effect of all things else, so far as work is concerned,
may, in a great measure, be neutralized. In a cook, this quality is most essential; for an
hour lost in the morning, will keep her toiling, absolutely toiling, all day, to overtake that
which might otherwise have been achieved with ease. In large establishments, six is a good
hour to rise in the summer, and seven in the winter.

81. HER FIRST DUTY, in large establishments and where it is requisite, should be to set her
dough for the breakfast rolls, provided this has not been done on the previous night, and then
to engage herself with those numerous little preliminary occupations which may not inappropriately
be termed laying out her duties for the day. This will bring in the breakfast hour of eight,
after which, directions must be given, and preparations made, for the different dinners of
the household and family.

82. IN THOSE NUMEROUS HOUSEHOLDS where a cook and housemaid are only kept, the general custom
is, that the cook should have the charge of the dining-room. The hall, the lamps and the doorstep
are also committed to her care, and any other work there may be on the outside of the house.
In establishments of this kind, the cook will, after having lighted her kitchen fire, carefully
brushed the range, and cleaned the hearth, proceed to prepare for breakfast. She will thoroughly
rinse the kettle, and, filling it with fresh water, will put it on the fire to boil. She will
then go to the breakfast-room, or parlour, and there make all things ready for the breakfast
of the family. Her attention will next be directed to the hall, which she will sweep and wipe;
the kitchen stairs, if there be any, will now be swept; and the hall mats, which have been
removed and shaken, will be again put in their places.

    The cleaning of the kitchen, pantry, passages, and kitchen
    stairs must always be over before breakfast, so that it may not
    interfere with the other business of the day. Everything should
    be ready, and the whole house should wear a comfortable aspect
    when the heads of the house and members of the family make their
    appearance. Nothing, it may be depended on, will so please the
    mistress of an establishment, as to notice that, although she
    has not been present to see that the work was done, attention to
    smaller matters has been carefully paid, with a view to giving
    her satisfaction and increasing her comfort.

83. BY THE TIME THAT THE COOK has performed the duties mentioned above, and well swept, brushed,
and dusted her kitchen, the breakfast-bell will most likely summon her to the parlour, to "bring
in" the breakfast. It is the cook's department, generally, in the smaller establishments, to
wait at breakfast, as the housemaid, by this time, has gone up-stairs into the bedrooms, and
has there applied herself to her various duties. The cook usually answers the bells and single
knocks at the door in the early part of the morning, as the tradesmen, with whom it is her
more special business to speak, call at these hours.

84. IT IS IN HER PREPARATION OF THE DINNER that the cook begins to feel the weight and responsibility
of her situation, as she must take upon herself all the dressing and the serving of the principal
dishes, which her skill and ingenuity have mostly prepared. Whilst these, however, are cooking,
she must be busy with her pastry, soups, gravies, ragouts, &c. Stock, or what the French call
consommé, being the basis of most made dishes, must be always at hand, in conjunction with
her sweet herbs and spices for seasoning. "A place for everything, and everything in its place,"
must be her rule, in order that time may not be wasted in looking for things when they are
wanted, and in order that the whole apparatus of cooking may move with the regularity and precision
of a well-adjusted machine;--all must go on simultaneously. The vegetables and sauces must
be ready with the dishes they are to accompany, and in order that they may be suitable, the
smallest oversight must not be made in their preparation. When the dinner-hour has arrived,
it is the duty of the cook to dish-up such dishes as may, without injury, stand, for some time,
covered on the hot plate or in the hot closet; but such as are of a more important or recherché
kind, must be delayed until the order "to serve" is given from the drawing-room. Then comes
haste; but there must be no hurry,--all must work with order. The cook takes charge of the
fish, soups, and poultry; and the kitchen-maid of the vegetables, sauces, and gravies. These
she puts into their appropriate dishes, whilst the scullery-maid waits on and assists the cook.
Everything must be timed so as to prevent its getting cold, whilst great care should be taken,
that, between the first and second courses, no more time is allowed to elapse than is necessary,
for fear that the company in the dining-room lose all relish for what has yet to come of the
dinner. When the dinner has been served, the most important feature in the daily life of the
cook is at an end. She must, however, now begin to look to the contents of her larder, taking
care to keep everything sweet and clean, so that no disagreeable smells may arise from the
gravies, milk, or meat that may be there. These are the principal duties of a cook in a first-rate
establishment.

In smaller establishments, the housekeeper often conducts the higher department of cooking
(see 58, 59, 60), and the cook, with the assistance of a scullery-maid, performs some of the
subordinate duties of the kitchen-maid.

When circumstances render it necessary, the cook engages to perform the whole of the work of
the kitchen, and, in some places, a portion of the house-work also.

85. WHILST THE COOK IS ENGAGED WITH HER MORNING DUTIES, the kitchen-maid is also occupied with
hers. Her first duty, after the fire is lighted, is to sweep and clean the kitchen, and the
various offices belonging to it. This she does every morning, besides cleaning the stone steps
at the entrance of the house, the halls, the passages, and the stairs which lead to the kitchen.
Her general duties, besides these, are to wash and scour all these places twice a week, with
the tables, shelves, and cupboards. She has also to dress the nursery and servants'-hall dinners,
to prepare all fish, poultry, and vegetables, trim meat joints and cutlets, and do all such
duties as may be considered to enter into the cook's department in a subordinate degree.

86. THE DUTIES OF THE SCULLERY-MAID are to assist the cook; to keep the scullery clean, and
all the metallic as well as earthenware kitchen utensils.

    The position of scullery-maid is not, of course, one of high
    rank, nor is the payment for her services large. But if she be
    fortunate enough to have over her a good kitchen-maid and clever
    cook, she may very soon learn to perform various little duties
    connected with cooking operations, which may be of considerable
    service in fitting her for a more responsible place. Now, it
    will be doubtless thought by the majority of our readers, that
    the fascinations connected with the position of the
    scullery-maid, are not so great as to induce many people to
    leave a comfortable home in order to work in a scullery. But we
    are acquainted with one instance in which the desire, on the
    part of a young girl, was so strong to become connected with the
    kitchen and cookery, that she absolutely left her parents, and
    engaged herself as a scullery-maid in a gentleman's house. Here
    she showed herself so active and intelligent, that she very
    quickly rose to the rank of kitchen-maid; and from this, so
    great was her gastronomical genius, she became, in a short space
    of time, one of the best women-cooks in England. After this, we
    think, it must be allowed, that a cook, like a poet, nascitur,
    non fit.

87. MODERN COOKERY stands so greatly indebted to the gastronomic propensities of our French
neighbours, that many of their terms are adopted and applied by English artists to the same
as well as similar preparations of their own. A vocabulary of these is, therefore, indispensable
in a work of this kind. Accordingly, the following will be found sufficiently complete for
all ordinary purposes:--

EXPLANATION OF FRENCH TERMS USED IN MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY.

ASPIC.--A savoury jelly, used as an exterior moulding for cold game, poultry, fish, &c. This,
being of a transparent nature, allows the bird which it covers to be seen through it. This
may also be used for decorating or garnishing.

ASSIETTE (plate).--Assiettes are the small entrées and hors-d'oeuvres, the quantity of which
does not exceed what a plate will hold. At dessert, fruits, cheese, chestnuts, biscuits, &c.,
if served upon a plate, are termed assiettes.--ASSIETTE VOLANTE is a dish which a servant hands
round to the guests, but is not placed upon the table. Small cheese soufflés and different
dishes, which ought to be served very hot, are frequently made assielles volantes.

AU-BLEU.--Fish dressed in such a manner as to have a bluish appearance.

BAIN-MARIE.--An open saucepan or kettle of nearly boiling water, in which a smaller vessel
can be set for cooking and warming. This is very useful for keeping articles hot, without altering
their quantity or quality. If you keep sauce, broth, or soup by the fireside, the soup reduces
and becomes too strong, and the sauce thickens as well as reduces; but this is prevented by
using the bain-marie, in which the water should be very hot, but not boiling.

BÉCHAMEL.--French white sauce, now frequently used in English cookery.

BLANCH.--To whiten poultry, vegetables, fruit, &c., by plunging them into boiling water for
a short time, and afterwards plunging them into cold water, there to remain until they are cold.

BLANQUETTE.--A sort of fricassee.

BOUILLI.--Beef or other meat boiled; but, generally speaking, boiled beef is understood by
the term.

BOUILLIE.--A French dish resembling hasty-pudding.

BOUILLON.--A thin broth or soup.

BRAISE.--To stew meat with fat bacon until it is tender, it having previously been blanched.

BRAISIÈRE.--A saucepan having a lid with ledges, to put fire on the top.

BRIDER.--To pass a packthread through poultry, game, &c., to keep together their members.

CARAMEL (burnt sugar).--This is made with a piece of sugar, of the size of a nut, browned in
the bottom of a saucepan; upon which a cupful of stock is gradually poured, stirring all the
time a glass of broth, little by little. It may be used with the feather of a quill, to colour
meats, such as the upper part of fricandeaux; and to impart colour to sauces. Caramel made
with water instead of stock may be used to colour compôtes and other entremets.

CASSEROLE.--A crust of rice, which, after having been moulded into the form of a pie, is baked,
and then filled with a fricassee of white meat or a purée of game.

COMPOTE.--A stew, as of fruit or pigeons.

CONSOMMÉ.--Rich stock, or gravy.

CROQUETTE.--Ball of fried rice or potatoes.

CROUTONS.--Sippets of bread.

DAUBIÈRE.--An oval stewpan, in which daubes are cooked; daubes being meat or fowl stewed in sauce.

DÉSOSSER.--To bone, or take out the bones from poultry, game, or fish. This is an operation
requiring considerable experience.

ENTRÉES.--Small side or corner dishes, served with the first course.

ENTREMETS.--Small side or corner dishes, served with the second course.

ESCALOPES.--Collops; small, round, thin pieces of tender meat, or of fish, beaten with the
handle of a strong knife to make them tender.

FEUILLETAGE.--Puff-paste.

FLAMBER.--To singe fowl or game, after they have been picked.

FONCER.--To put in the bottom of a saucepan slices of ham, veal, or thin broad slices of bacon.

GALETTE.--A broad thin cake.

GÂTEAU.--A cake, correctly speaking; but used sometimes to denote a pudding and a kind of tart.

GLACER.--To glaze, or spread upon hot meats, or larded fowl, a thick and rich sauce or gravy,
called glaze. This is laid on with a feather or brush, and in confectionary the term means
to ice fruits and pastry with sugar, which glistens on hardening.

HORS-D'OEUVRES.--Small dishes, or assiettes volantes of sardines, anchovies, and other relishes
of this kind, served to the guests during the first course. (See ASSIETTES VOLANTES.)

LIT.--A bed or layer; articles in thin slices are placed in layers, other articles, or seasoning,
being laid between them.

MAIGRE.--Broth, soup, or gravy, made without meat.

MATELOTE.--A rich fish-stew, which is generally composed of carp, eels, trout, or barbel. It
is made with wine.

MAYONNAISE.--Cold sauce, or salad dressing.

MENU.--The bill of fare.

MERINGUE.--A kind of icing, made of whites of eggs and sugar, well beaten.

MIROTON.--Larger slices of meat than collops; such as slices of beef for a vinaigrette, or
ragout or stew of onions.

MOUILLER.--To add water, broth, or other liquid, during the cooking.

PANER.--To cover over with very fine crumbs of bread, meats, or any other articles to be cooked
on the gridiron, in the oven, or frying-pan.

PIQUER.--To lard with strips of fat bacon, poultry, game, meat, &c. This should always be done
according to the vein of the meat, so that in carving you slice the bacon across as well as
the meat.

POÊLÉE.--Stock used instead of water for boiling turkeys, sweetbreads, fowls, and vegetables,
to render them less insipid. This is rather an expensive preparation.

PURÉE.--Vegetables, or meat reduced to a very smooth pulp, which is afterwards mixed with enough
liquid to make it of the consistency of very thick soup.

RAGOUT.--Stew or hash.

REMOULADE.--Salad dressing.

RISSOLES.--Pastry, made of light puff-paste, and cut into various forms, and fried. They may
be filled with fish, meat, or sweets.

ROUX.--Brown and white; French thickening.

SALMI.--Ragout of game previously roasted.

SAUCE PIQUANTE.--A sharp sauce, in which somewhat of a vinegar flavour predominates.

SAUTER.--To dress with sauce in a saucepan, repeatedly moving it about.

TAMIS.--Tammy, a sort of open cloth or sieve through which to strain broth and sauces, so as
to rid them of small bones, froth, &c.

TOURTE.--Tart. Fruit pie.

TROUSSER.--To truss a bird; to put together the body and tie the wings and thighs, in order
to round it for roasting or boiling, each being tied then with packthread, to keep it in the
required form.

VOL-AU-VENT.--A rich crust of very fine puff-paste, which may be filled with various delicate
ragouts or fricassees, of fish, flesh, or fowl. Fruit may also be inclosed in a vol-au-vent.

SOUPS.

CHAPTER V.

GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR MAKING SOUPS.

88. LEAN, JUICY BEEF, MUTTON, AND VEAL, form the basis of all good soups; therefore it is advisable
to procure those pieces which afford the richest succulence, and such as are fresh-killed.
Stale meat renders them bad, and fat is not so well adapted for making them. The principal
art in composing good rich soup, is so to proportion the several ingredients that the flavour
of one shall not predominate over another, and that all the articles of which it is composed,
shall form an agreeable whole. To accomplish this, care must be taken that the roots and herbs
are perfectly well cleaned, and that the water is proportioned to the quantity of meat and
other ingredients. Generally a quart of water may be allowed to a pound of meat for soups,
and half the quantity for gravies. In making soups or gravies, gentle stewing or simmering
is incomparably the best. It may be remarked, however, that a really good soup can never be
made but in a well-closed vessel, although, perhaps, greater wholesomeness is obtained by an
occasional exposure to the air. Soups will, in general, take from three to six hours doing,
and are much better prepared the day before they are wanted. When the soup is cold, the fat
may be much more easily and completely removed; and when it is poured off, care must be taken
not to disturb the settlings at the bottom of the vessel, which are so fine that they will
escape through a sieve. A tamis is the best strainer, and if the soup is strained while it
is hot, let the tamis or cloth be previously soaked in cold water. Clear soups must be perfectly
transparent, and thickened soups about the consistence of cream. To thicken and give body to
soups and gravies, potato-mucilage, arrow-root, bread-raspings, isinglass, flour and butter,
barley, rice, or oatmeal, in a little water rubbed well together, are used. A piece of boiled
beef pounded to a pulp, with a bit of butter and flour, and rubbed through a sieve, and gradually
incorporated with the soup, will be found an excellent addition. When the soup appears to be
too thin or too weak, the cover of the boiler should be taken off, and the contents allowed
to boil till some of the watery parts have evaporated; or some of the thickening materials,
above mentioned, should be added. When soups and gravies are kept from day to day in hot weather,
they should be warmed up every day, and put into fresh scalded pans or tureens, and placed
in a cool cellar. In temperate weather, every other day may be sufficient.

89. VARIOUS HERBS AND VEGETABLES are required for the purpose of making soups and gravies.
Of these the principal are,--Scotch barley, pearl barley, wheat flour, oatmeal, bread-raspings,
pease, beans, rice, vermicelli, macaroni, isinglass, potato-mucilage, mushroom or mushroom
ketchup, champignons, parsnips, carrots, beetroot, turnips, garlic, shalots, and onions. Sliced
onions, fried with butter and flour till they are browned, and then rubbed through a sieve,
are excellent to heighten the colour and flavour of brown soups and sauces, and form the basis
of many of the fine relishes furnished by the cook. The older and drier the onion, the stronger
will be its flavour. Leeks, cucumber, or burnet vinegar; celery or celery-seed pounded. The
latter, though equally strong, does not impart the delicate sweetness of the fresh vegetable;
and when used as a substitute, its flavour should be corrected by the addition of a bit of
sugar. Cress-seed, parsley, common thyme, lemon thyme, orange thyme, knotted marjoram, sage,
mint, winter savoury, and basil. As fresh green basil is seldom to be procured, and its fine
flavour is soon lost, the best way of preserving the extract is by pouring wine on the fresh
leaves.

90. FOR THE SEASONING OF SOUPS, bay-leaves, tomato, tarragon, chervil, burnet, allspice, cinnamon,
ginger, nutmeg, clove, mace, black and white pepper, essence of anchovy, lemon-peel, and juice,
and Seville orange-juice, are all taken. The latter imparts a finer flavour than the lemon,
and the acid is much milder. These materials, with wine, mushroom ketchup, Harvey's sauce,
tomato sauce, combined in various proportions, are, with other ingredients, manipulated into
an almost endless variety of excellent soups and gravies. Soups, which are intended to constitute
the principal part of a meal, certainly ought not to be flavoured like sauces, which are only
designed to give a relish to some particular dish.

SOUP, BROTH AND BOUILLON.

91. IT HAS BEEN ASSERTED, that English cookery is, nationally speaking, far from being the
best in the world. More than this, we have been frequently told by brilliant foreign writers,
half philosophers, half chefs, that we are the worst cooks on the face of the earth, and that
the proverb which alludes to the divine origin of food, and the precisely opposite origin of
its preparers, is peculiarly applicable to us islanders. Not, however, to the inhabitants of
the whole island; for, it is stated in a work which treats of culinary operations, north of
the Tweed, that the "broth" of Scotland claims, for excellence and wholesomeness, a very close
second place to the bouillon, or common soup of France. "Three hot meals of broth and meat,
for about the price of ONE roasting joint," our Scottish brothers and sisters get, they say;
and we hasten to assent to what we think is now a very well-ascertained fact. We are glad to
note, however, that soups of vegetables, fish, meat, and game, are now very frequently found
in the homes of the English middle classes, as well as in the mansions of the wealthier and
more aristocratic; and we take this to be one evidence, that we are on the right road to an
improvement in our system of cookery. One great cause of many of the spoilt dishes and badly-cooked
meats which are brought to our tables, arises, we think, and most will agree with us, from
a non-acquaintance with "common, every-day things." Entertaining this view, we intend to preface
the chapters of this work with a simple scientific résumé of all those causes and circumstances
which relate to the food we have to prepare, and the theory and chemistry of the various culinary
operations. Accordingly, this is the proper place to treat of the quality of the flesh of animals,
and describe some of the circumstances which influence it for good or bad. We will, therefore,
commence with the circumstance of age, and examine how far this affects the quality of meat.

92. DURING THE PERIOD BETWEEN THE BIRTH AND MATURITY OF ANIMALS, their flesh undergoes very
considerable changes. For instance, when the animal is young, the fluids which the tissues
of the muscles contain, possess a large proportion of what is called albumen. This albumen,
which is also the chief component of the white of eggs, possesses the peculiarity of coagulating
or hardening at a certain temperature, like the white of a boiled egg, into a soft, white fluid,
no longer soluble, or capable of being dissolved in water. As animals grow older, this peculiar
animal matter gradually decreases, in proportion to the other constituents of the juice of
the flesh. Thus, the reason why veal, lamb, and young pork are white, and without gravy when
cooked, is, that the large quantity of albumen they contain hardens, or becomes coagulated.
On the other hand, the reason why beef and mutton are brown, and have gravy, is, that the proportion
of albumen they contain, is small, in comparison with their greater quantity of fluid which
is soluble, and not coagulable.

93. THE QUALITY OF THE FLESH OF AN ANIMAL is considerably influenced by the nature of the food
on which it has been fed; for the food supplies the material which produces the flesh. If the
food be not suitable and good, the meat cannot be good either; just as the paper on which these
words are printed, could not be good, if the rags from which it is made, were not of a fine
quality. To the experienced in this matter, it is well known that the flesh of animals fed
on farinaceous produce, such as corn, pulse, &c., is firm, well-flavoured, and also economical
in the cooking; that the flesh of those fed on succulent and pulpy substances, such as roots,
possesses these qualities in a somewhat less degree; whilst the flesh of those whose food contains
fixed oil, as linseed, is greasy, high coloured, and gross in the fat, and if the food has
been used in large quantities, possessed of a rank flavour.

94. IT IS INDISPENSABLE TO THE GOOD QUALITY OF MEAT, that the animal should be perfectly healthy
at the time of its slaughter. However slight the disease in an animal may be, inferiority in
the quality of its flesh, as food, is certain to be produced. In most cases, indeed, as the
flesh of diseased animals has a tendency to very rapid putrefaction, it becomes not only unwholesome,
but absolutely poisonous, on account of the absorption of the virus of the unsound meat into
the systems of those who partake of it. The external indications of good and bad meat will
be described under its own particular head, but we may here premise that the layer of all wholesome
meat, when freshly killed, adheres firmly to the bone.

95. ANOTHER CIRCUMSTANCE GREATLY AFFECTING THE QUALITY OF MEAT, is the animal's treatment before
it is slaughtered. This influences its value and wholesomeness in no inconsiderable degree.
It will be easy to understand this, when we reflect on those leading principles by which the
life of an animal is supported and maintained. These are, the digestion of its food, and the
assimilation of that food into its substance. Nature, in effecting this process, first reduces
the food in the stomach to a state of pulp, under the name of chyme, which passes into the
intestines, and is there divided into two principles, each distinct from the other. One, a
milk-white fluid,--the nutritive portion,--is absorbed by innumerable vessels which open upon
the mucous membrane, or inner coat of the intestines. These vessels, or absorbents, discharge
the fluid into a common duct, or road, along which it is conveyed to the large veins in the
neighbourhood of the heart. Here it is mixed with the venous blood (which is black and impure)
returning from every part of the body, and then it supplies the waste which is occasioned in
the circulating stream by the arterial (or pure) blood having furnished matter for the substance
of the animal. The blood of the animal having completed its course through all parts, and having
had its waste recruited by the digested food, is now received into the heart, and by the action
of that organ it is urged through the lungs, there to receive its purification from the air
which the animal inhales. Again returning to the heart, it is forced through the arteries,
and thence distributed, by innumerable ramifications, called capillaries, bestowing to every
part of the animal, life and nutriment. The other principle--the innutritive portion--passes
from the intestines, and is thus got rid of. It will now be readily understood how flesh is
affected for bad, if an animal is slaughtered when the circulation of its blood has been increased
by over-driving, ill-usage, or other causes of excitement, to such a degree of rapidity as
to be too great for the capillaries to perform their functions, and causing the blood to be
congealed in its minuter vessels. Where this has been the case, the meat will be dark-coloured,
and become rapidly putrid; so that self-interest and humanity alike dictate kind and gentle
treatment of all animals destined to serve as food for man.

THE CHEMISTRY AND ECONOMY OF SOUP-MAKING.

96. STOCK BEING THE BASIS of all meat soups, and, also, of all the principal sauces, it is
essential to the success of these culinary operations, to know the most complete and economical
method of extracting, from a certain quantity of meat, the best possible stock or broth. The
theory and philosophy of this process we will, therefore, explain, and then proceed to show
the practical course to be adopted.

97. AS ALL MEAT is principally composed of fibres, fat, gelatine, osmazome, and albumen, it
is requisite to know that the FIBRES are inseparable, constituting almost all that remains
of the meat after it has undergone a long boiling.

98. FAT is dissolved by boiling; but as it is contained in cells covered by a very fine membrane,
which never dissolves, a portion of it always adheres to the fibres. The other portion rises
to the surface of the stock, and is that which has escaped from the cells which were not whole,
or which have burst by boiling.

99. GELATINE is soluble: it is the basis and the nutritious portion of the stock. When there
is an abundance of it, it causes the stock, when cold, to become a jelly.

100. OSMAZOME is soluble even when cold, and is that part of the meat which gives flavour and
perfume to the stock. The flesh of old animals contains more osmazome than that of young ones.
Brown meats contain more than white, and the former make the stock more fragrant. By roasting
meat, the osmazome appears to acquire higher properties; so, by putting the remains of roast
meats into your stock-pot, you obtain a better flavour.

101. ALBUMEN is of the nature of the white of eggs; it can be dissolved in cold or tepid water,
but coagulates when it is put into water not quite at the boiling-point. From this property
in albumen, it is evident that if the meat is put into the stock-pot when the water boils,
or after this is made to boil up quickly, the albumen, in both cases, hardens. In the first
it rises to the surface, in the second it remains in the meat, but in both it prevents the
gelatine and osmazome from dissolving; and hence a thin and tasteless stock will be obtained.
It ought to be known, too, that the coagulation of the albumen in the meat, always takes place,
more or less, according to the size of the piece, as the parts farthest from the surface always
acquire that degree of heat which congeals it before entirely dissolving it.

102. BONES ought always to form a component part of the stock-pot. They are composed of an
earthy substance,--to which they owe their solidity,--of gelatine, and a fatty fluid, something
like marrow. Two ounces of them contain as much gelatine as one pound of meat; but in them,
this is so incased in the earthy substance, that boiling water can dissolve only the surface
of whole bones. By breaking them, however, you can dissolve more, because you multiply their
surfaces; and by reducing them to powder or paste, you can dissolve them entirely; but you
must not grind them dry. We have said (99) that gelatine forms the basis of stock; but this,
though very nourishing, is entirely without taste; and to make the stock savoury, it must contain
osmazome. Of this, bones do not contain a particle; and that is the reason why stock made entirely
of them, is not liked; but when you add meat to the broken or pulverized bones, the osmazome
contained in it makes the stock sufficiently savoury.

103. In concluding this part of our subject, the following condensed hints and directions should
be attended to in the economy of soup-making:--

I. BEEF MAKES THE BEST STOCK; veal stock has less colour and taste; whilst mutton sometimes
gives it a tallowy smell, far from agreeable, unless the meat has been previously roasted or
broiled. Fowls add very little to the flavour of stock, unless they be old and fat. Pigeons,
when they are old, add the most flavour to it; and a rabbit or partridge is also a great improvement.
From the freshest meat the best stock is obtained.

II. IF THE MEAT BE BOILED solely to make stock, it must be cut up into the smallest possible
pieces; but, generally speaking, if it is desired to have good stock and a piece of savoury
meat as well, it is necessary to put a rather large piece into the stock-pot, say sufficient
for two or three days, during which time the stock will keep well in all weathers. Choose the
freshest meat, and have it cut as thick as possible; for if it is a thin, flat piece, it will
not look well, and will be very soon spoiled by the boiling.

III. NEVER WASH MEAT, as it deprives its surface of all its juices; separate it from the bones,
and tie it round with tape, so that its shape may be preserved, then put it into the stock-pot,
and for each pound of meat, let there be one pint of water; press it down with the hand, to
allow the air, which it contains, to escape, and which often raises it to the top of the water.

IV. PUT THE STOCK-POT ON A GENTLE FIRE, so that it may heat gradually. The albumen will first
dissolve, afterwards coagulate; and as it is in this state lighter than the liquid, it will
rise to the surface; bringing with it all its impurities. It is this which makes the scum.
The rising of the hardened albumen has the same effect in clarifying stock as the white of
eggs; and, as a rule, it may be said that the more scum there is, the clearer will be the stock.
Always take care that the fire is very regular.

V. REMOVE THE SCUM when it rises thickly, and do not let the stock boil, because then one portion
of the scum will be dissolved, and the other go to the bottom of the pot; thus rendering it
very difficult to obtain a clear broth. If the fire is regular, it will not be necessary to
add cold water in order to make the scum rise; but if the fire is too large at first, it will
then be necessary to do so.

VI. WHEN THE STOCK IS WELL SKIMMED, and begins to boil, put in salt and vegetables, which may
be two or three carrots, two turnips, one parsnip, a bunch of leeks and celery tied together.
You can add, according to taste, a piece of cabbage, two or three cloves stuck in an onion,
and a tomato. The latter gives a very agreeable flavour to the stock. If fried onion be added,
it ought, according to the advice of a famous French chef, to be tied in a little bag: without
this precaution, the colour of the stock is liable to be clouded.

VII. BY THIS TIME we will now suppose that you have chopped the bones which were separated
from the meat, and those which were left from the roast meat of the day before. Remember, as
was before pointed out, that the more these are broken, the more gelatine you will have. The
best way to break them up is to pound them roughly in an iron mortar, adding, from time to
time, a little water, to prevent them getting heated. It is a great saving thus to make use
of the bones of meat, which, in too many English families, we fear, are entirely wasted; for
it is certain, as previously stated (No. 102), that two ounces of bone contain as much gelatine
(which is the nutritive portion of stock) as one pound of meat. In their broken state tie them
up in a bag, and put them in the stock-pot; adding the gristly parts of cold meat, and trimmings,
which can be used for no other purpose. If, to make up the weight, you have received from the
butcher a piece of mutton or veal, broil it slightly over a clear fire before putting it in
the stock-pot, and be very careful that it does not contract the least taste of being smoked
or burnt.

VIII. ADD NOW THE VEGETABLES, which, to a certain extent, will stop the boiling of the stock.
Wait, therefore, till it simmers well up again, then draw it to the side of the fire, and keep
it gently simmering till it is served, preserving, as before said, your fire always the same.
Cover the stock-pot well, to prevent evaporation; do not fill it up, even if you take out a
little stock, unless the meat is exposed; in which case a little boiling water may be added,
but only enough to cover it. After six hours' slow and gentle simmering, the stock is done;
and it should not be continued on the fire, longer than is necessary, or it will tend to insipidity.

Note.--It is on a good stock, or first good broth and sauce, that excellence in cookery depends.
If the preparation of this basis of the culinary art is intrusted to negligent or ignorant
persons, and the stock is not well skimmed, but indifferent results will be obtained. The stock
will never be clear; and when it is obliged to be clarified, it is deteriorated both in quality
and flavour. In the proper management of the stock-pot an immense deal of trouble is saved,
inasmuch as one stock, in a small dinner, serves for all purposes. Above all things, the greatest
economy, consistent with excellence, should be practised, and the price of everything which
enters the kitchen correctly ascertained. The theory of this part of Household Management may
appear trifling; but its practice is extensive, and therefore it requires the best attention.

RECIPES.

CHAPTER VI.

FRUIT AND VEGETABLE SOUPS.

[It will be seen, by reference to the following Recipes, that an entirely original and most
intelligible system has been pursued in explaining the preparation of each dish. We would recommend
the young housekeeper, cook, or whoever may be engaged in the important task of "getting ready"
the dinner, or other meal, to follow precisely the order in which the recipes are given. Thus,
let them first place on their table all the INGREDIENTS necessary; then the modus operandi,
or MODE of preparation, will be easily managed. By a careful reading, too, of the recipes,
there will not be the slightest difficulty in arranging a repast for any number of persons,
and an accurate notion will be gained of the TIME the cooling of each dish will occupy, of
the periods at which it is SEASONABLE, as also of its AVERAGE COST.

The addition of the natural history, and the description of the various properties of the edible
articles in common use in every family, will be serviceable both in a practical and an educational
point of view.

Speaking specially of the Recipes for Soups, it may be added, that by the employment of the
BEST, MEDIUM, or COMMON STOCK, the quality of the Soups and their cost may be proportionately
increased or lessened.]

STOCKS FOR ALL KINDS OF SOUPS.

RICH STRONG STOCK.

104. INGREDIENTS.--4 lbs. of shin of beef, 4 lbs. of knuckle of veal, 3/4 lb. of good lean
ham; any poultry trimmings; 3 small onions, 3 small carrots, 3 turnips (the latter should be
omitted in summer, lest they ferment), 1 head of celery, a few chopped mushrooms, when obtainable;
1 tomato, a bunch of savoury herbs, not forgetting parsley; 1-1/2 oz. of salt, 12 white peppercorns,
6 cloves, 3 small blades of mace, 4 quarts of water.

Mode.--Line a delicately clean stewpan with the ham cut in thin broad slices, carefully trimming
off all its rusty fat; cut up the beef and veal in pieces about 3 inches square, and lay them
on the ham; set it on the stove, and draw it down, and stir frequently. When the meat is equally
browned, put in the beef and veal bones, the poultry trimmings, and pour in the cold water.
Skim well, and occasionally add a little cold water, to stop its boiling, until it becomes
quite clear; then put in all the other ingredients, and simmer very slowly for 5 hours. Do
not let it come to a brisk boil, that the stock be not wasted, and that its colour may be preserved.
Strain through a very fine hair sieve, or tammy, and it will be fit for use.

Time.--5 hours. Average cost, 1s. 3d. per quart.

MEDIUM STOCK.

105.

Mode.--Cut up the meat and bacon or ham into pieces about 3 inches square; rub the butter on
the bottom of the stewpan; put in 1/2 a pint of water, the meat, and all the other ingredients.
Cover the stewpan, and place it on a sharp fire, occasionally stirring its contents. When the
bottom of the pan becomes covered with a pale, jelly-like substance, add 4 quarts of cold water,
and simmer very gently for 5 hours. As we have said before, do not let it boil quickly. Skim
off every particle of grease whilst it is doing, and strain it through a fine hair sieve.

This is the basis of many of the soups afterwards mentioned, and will be found quite strong
enough for ordinary purposes.

Time.--5-1/2 hours. Average cost, 9d. per quart.

ECONOMICAL STOCK.

106. INGREDIENTS.--The liquor in which a joint of meat has been boiled, say 4 quarts; trimmings
of fresh meat or poultry, shank-bones, &c., roast-beef bones, any pieces the larder may furnish;
vegetables, spices, and the same seasoning as in the foregoing recipe.

Mode.--Let all the ingredients simmer gently for 6 hours, taking care to skim carefully at
first. Strain it off, and put by for use.

Time.--6 hours. Average cost, 3d. per quart.

WHITE STOCK.

(To be Used in the Preparation of White Soups.)

107. INGREDIENTS.--4 lbs. of knuckle of veal, any poultry trimmings, 4 slices of lean ham,
1 carrot, 2 onions, 1 head of celery, 12 white peppercorns, 1 oz. of salt, 1 blade of mace,
1 oz. butter, 4 quarts of water.

Mode.--Cut up the veal, and put it with the bones and trimmings of poultry, and the ham, into
the stewpan, which has been rubbed with the butter. Moisten with 1/2 a pint of water, and simmer
till the gravy begins to flow. Then add the 4 quarts of water and the remainder of the ingredients;
simmer for 5 hours. After skimming and straining it carefully through a very fine hair sieve,
it will be ready for use.

Note.--When stronger stock is desired, double the quantity of veal, or put in an old fowl.
The liquor in which a young turkey has been boiled, is an excellent addition to all white stock
or soups.

BROWNING FOR STOCK.

108. INGREDIENTS.--2 oz. of powdered sugar, and 1/2 a pint of water.

Mode.--Place the sugar in a stewpan over a slow fire until it begins to melt, keeping it stirred
with a wooden spoon until it becomes black, then add the water, and let it dissolve. Cork closely,
and use a few drops when required.

Note.--In France, burnt onions are made use of for the purpose of browning. As a general rule,
the process of browning is to be discouraged, as apt to impart a slightly unpleasant flavour
to the stock, and, consequently, all soups made from it.

TO CLARIFY STOCK.

109. INGREDIENTS.--The whites of 2 eggs, 1/2 pint of water, 2 quarts of stock.

Mode.--Supposing that by some accident the soup is not quite clear, and that its quantity is
2 quarts, take the whites of 2 eggs, carefully separated from their yolks, whisk them well
together with the water, and add gradually the 2 quarts of boiling stock, still whisking. Place
the soup on the fire, and when boiling and well skimmed, whisk the eggs with it till nearly
boiling again; then draw it from the fire, and let it settle, until the whites of the eggs
become separated. Pass through a fine cloth, and the soup should be clear.

Note.--The rule is, that all clear soups should be of a light straw colour, and should not
savour too strongly of the meat; and that all white or brown thick soups should have no more
consistency than will enable them to adhere slightly to the spoon when hot. All purées should
be somewhat thicker.

ALMOND SOUP.

110. INGREDIENTS.--4 lbs. of lean beef or veal, 1/2 a scrag of mutton, 1 oz. of vermicelli,
4 blades of mace, 6 cloves, 1/2 lb. of sweet almonds, the yolks of 6 eggs, 1 gill of thick
cream, rather more than 2 quarts of water.

Mode.--Boil the beef, or veal, and the mutton, gently in water that will cover them, till the
gravy is very strong, and the meat very tender; then strain off the gravy, and set it on the
fire with the specified quantities of vermicelli, mace, and cloves, to 2 quarts. Let it boil
till it has the flavour of the spices. Have ready the almonds, blanched and pounded very fine;
the yolks of the eggs boiled hard; mixing the almonds, whilst pounding, with a little of the
soup, lest the latter should grow oily. Pound them till they are a mere pulp, and keep adding
to them, by degrees, a little soup until they are thoroughly mixed together. Let the soup be
cool when mixing, and do it perfectly smooth. Strain it through a sieve, set it on the fire,
stir frequently, and serve hot. Just before taking it up, add the cream.

Time.--3 hours. Average cost per quart, 2s. 3d.

Seasonable all the year.

Sufficient for 8 persons.

    THE ALMOND-TREE.--This tree is indigenous to the northern parts
    of Asia and Africa, but it is now cultivated in Europe,
    especially in the south of France, Italy, and Spain. It flowers
    in spring, and produces its fruit in August. Although there are
    two kinds of almonds, the sweet and the bitter, they are
    considered as only varieties of the same species. The best sweet
    almonds brought to England, are called the Syrian or Jordan, and
    come from Malaga; the inferior qualities are brought from
    Valentia and Italy. Bitter almonds come principally from
    Magadore. Anciently, the almond was much esteemed by the nations
    of the East. Jacob included it among the presents which he
    designed for Joseph. The Greeks called it the Greek or Thasian
    nut, and the Romans believed that by eating half a dozen of
    them, they were secured against drunkenness, however deeply they
    might imbibe. Almonds, however, are considered as very
    indigestible. The bitter contain, too, principles which
    produce two violent poisons,--prussic acid and a kind of
    volatile oil. It is consequently dangerous to eat them in large
    quantities. Almonds pounded together with a little sugar and
    water, however, produce a milk similar to that which is yielded
    by animals. Their oil is used for making fine soap, and their
    cake as a cosmetic.

APPLE SOUP.

111. INGREDIENTS.--2 lbs. of good boiling apples, 3/4 teaspoonful of white pepper, 6 cloves,
cayenne or ginger to taste, 3 quarts of medium stock.

Mode.--Peel and quarter the apples, taking out their cores; put them into the stock, stew them
gently till tender. Rub the whole through a strainer, add the seasoning, give it one boil up,
and serve.

Time.--1 hour. Average cost per quart, 1s.

Seasonable from September to December.

Sufficient for 10 persons.

    THE APPLE.--This useful fruit is mentioned in Holy Writ; and
    Homer describes it as valuable in his time. It was brought from
    the East by the Romans, who held it in the highest estimation.
    Indeed, some of the citizens of the "Eternal city" distinguished
    certain favourite apples by their names. Thus the Manlians were
    called after Manlius, the Claudians after Claudius, and the
    Appians after Appius. Others were designated after the country
    whence they were brought; as the Sidonians, the Epirotes, and
    the Greeks. The best varieties are natives of Asia, and have, by
    grafting them upon others, been introduced into Europe. The
    crab, found in our hedges, is the only variety indigenous to
    Britain; therefore, for the introduction of other kinds we are,
    no doubt, indebted to the Romans. In the time of the Saxon
    heptarchy, both Devon and Somerset were distinguished as the
    apple country; and there are still existing in Herefordshire
    some trees said to have been planted in the time of William the
    Conqueror. From that time to this, the varieties of this
    precious fruit have gone on increasing, and are now said to
    number upwards of 1,500. It is peculiar to the temperate zone,
    being found neither in Lapland, nor within the tropics. The best
    baking apples for early use are the Colvilles; the best for
    autumn are the rennets and pearmains; and the best for winter
    and spring are russets. The best table, or eating apples, are
    the Margarets for early use; the Kentish codlin and summer
    pearmain for summer; and for autumn, winter, or spring, the
    Dowton, golden and other pippins, as the ribstone, with small
    russets. As a food, the apple cannot be considered to rank high,
    as more than the half of it consists of water, and the rest of
    its properties are not the most nourishing. It is, however, a
    useful adjunct to other kinds of food, and, when cooked, is
    esteemed as slightly laxative.

ARTICHOKE (JERUSALEM) SOUP.

(A White Soup.)

112. INGREDIENTS.--3 slices of lean bacon or ham, 1/2 a head of celery, 1 turnip, 1 onion,
3 oz. of butter, 4 lbs. of artichokes, 1 pint of boiling milk, or 1/2 pint of boiling cream,
salt and cayenne to taste, 2 lumps of sugar, 2-1/2 quarts of white stock.

Mode.--Put the bacon and vegetables, which should be cut into thin slices, into the stewpan
with the butter. Braise these for 1/4 of an hour, keeping them well stirred. Wash and pare
the artichokes, and after cutting them into thin slices, add them, with a pint of stock, to
the other ingredients. When these have gently stewed down to a smooth pulp, put in the remainder
of the stock. Stir it well, adding the seasoning, and when it has simmered for five minutes,
pass it through a strainer. Now pour it back into the stewpan, let it again simmer five minutes,
taking care to skim it well, and stir it to the boiling milk or cream. Serve with small sippets
of bread fried in butter.

Time.--1 hour. Average cost per quart, 1s. 2d.

Seasonable from June to October.

Sufficient for 8 persons.

ASPARAGUS SOUP.

I.

113. INGREDIENTS.--5 lbs. of lean beef, 3 slices of bacon, 1/2 pint of pale ale, a few leaves
of white beet, spinach, 1 cabbage lettuce, a little mint, sorrel, and marjoram, a pint of asparagus-tops
cut small, the crust of 1 French roll, seasoning to taste, 2 quarts of water.

Mode.--Put the beef, cut in pieces and rolled in flour, into a stewpan, with the bacon at the
bottom; cover it close, and set it on a slow fire, stirring it now and then till the gravy
is drawn. Put in the water and ale, and season to taste with pepper and salt, and let it stew
gently for 2 hours; then strain the liquor, and take off the fat, and add the white beet, spinach,
cabbage lettuce, and mint, sorrel, and sweet marjoram, pounded. Let these boil up in the liquor,
then put in the asparagus-tops cut small, and allow them to boil till all is tender. Serve
hot, with the French roll in the dish.

Time.--Altogether 3 hours. Average cost per quart, 1s. 9d.

Seasonable from May to August.

Sufficient for 8 persons.

II.

114. INGREDIENTS.--1-1/2 pint of split peas, a teacupful of gravy, 4 young onions, 1 lettuce
cut small, 1/2 a head of celery, 1/2 a pint of asparagus cut small, 1/2 a pint of cream, 3
quarts of water: colour the soup with spinach juice.

Mode.--Boil the peas, and rub them through a sieve; add the gravy, and then stew by themselves
the celery, onions, lettuce, and asparagus, with the water. After this, stew altogether, and
add the colouring and cream, and serve.

Time.--Peas 2-1/2 hours, vegetables 1 hour; altogether 4 hours. Average cost per quart, 1s.

    ASPARAGUS.--The ancients called all the sprouts of young
    vegetables asparagus, whence the name, which is now limited to a
    particular species, embracing artichoke, alisander, asparagus,
    cardoon, rampion, and sea-kale. They are originally mostly wild
    seacoast plants; and, in this state, asparagus may still be
    found on the northern as well as southern shores of Britain. It
    is often vulgarly called, in London, sparrowgrass; and, in
    it's cultivated form, hardly bears any resemblance to the
    original plant. Immense quantities of it are raised for the
    London market, at Mortlake and Deptford; but it belongs rather
    to the classes of luxurious than necessary food. It is light and
    easily digested, but is not very nutritious.

BAKED SOUP.

115. INGREDIENTS.--1 lb. of any kind of meat, any trimmings or odd pieces; 2 onions, 2 carrots,
2 oz. of rice, 1 pint of split peas, pepper and salt to taste, 4 quarts of water.

Mode.--Cut the meat and vegetables in slices, add to them the rice and peas, season with pepper
and salt. Put the whole in a jar, fill up with the water, cover very closely, and bake for 4 hours.

Time.--4 hours. Average cost, 2-1/2d. per quart.

Seasonable at any time.

Sufficient for 10 or 12 persons.

Note.--This will be found a very cheap and wholesome soup, and will be convenient in those
cases where baking is more easily performed than boiling.

BARLEY SOUP.

116. INGREDIENTS.--2 lbs. of shin of beef, 1/4 lb. of pearl barley, a large bunch of parsley,
4 onions, 6 potatoes, salt and pepper, 4 quarts of water.

Mode.--Put in all the ingredients, and simmer gently for 3 hours.

    BARLEY.--This, in the order of cereal grasses, is, in Britain,
    the next plant to wheat in point of value, and exhibits several
    species and varieties. From what country it comes originally, is
    not known, but it was cultivated in the earliest ages of
    antiquity, as the Egyptians were afflicted with the loss of it
    in the ear, in the time of Moses. It was a favourite grain with
    the Athenians, but it was esteemed as an ignominious food by the
    Romans. Notwithstanding this, however, it was much used by them,
    as it was in former times by the English, and still is, in the
    Border counties, in Cornwall, and also in Wales. In other parts
    of England, it is used mostly for malting purposes. It is less
    nutritive than wheat; and in 100 parts, has of starch 79, gluten
    6, saccharine matter 7, husk 8. It is, however, a lighter and
    less stimulating food than wheat, which renders a decoction of
    it well adapted for invalids whose digestion is weak.

BREAD SOUP.

(Economical.)

117. INGREDIENTS.--1 lb. of bread crusts, 2 oz. butter, 1 quart of common stock.

Mode.--Boil the bread crusts in the stock with the butter; beat the whole with a spoon, and
keep it boiling till the bread and stock are well mixed. Season with a little salt.

Time.--Half an hour. Average cost per quart, 4d.

Seasonable at any time.

Sufficient for 4 persons.

Note.--This is a cheap recipe, and will be found useful where extreme economy is an object.

    BREAD.--The origin of bread is involved in the obscurity of
    distant ages. The Greeks attributed its invention to Pan; but
    before they, themselves, had an existence, it was, no doubt, in
    use among the primitive nations of mankind. The Chaldeans and
    the Egyptians were acquainted with it, and Sarah, the companion
    of Abraham, mixed flour and water together, kneaded it, and
    covered it with ashes on the hearth. The Scriptures inform us
    that leavened bread was known to the Israelites, but it is not
    known when the art of fermenting it was discovered. It is said
    that the Romans learnt it during their wars with Perseus, king
    of Macedon, and that it was introduced to the "imperial city"
    about 200 years before the birth of Christ. With them it no
    doubt found its way into Britain; but after their departure from
    the island, it probably ceased to be used. We know that King
    Alfred allowed the unfermented cakes to burn in the neatherd's
    cottage; and that, even in the sixteenth century, unfermented
    cakes, kneaded by the women, were the only kind of bread known
    to the inhabitants of Norway and Sweden. The Italians of this
    day consume the greater portion of their flour in the form of
    polenta, or soft pudding, vermicelli, and macaroni; and, in
    the remoter districts of Scotland, much unfermented bread is
    still used. We give a cut of the quern grinding-mill, which,
    towards the end of the last century, was in use in that country,
    and which is thus described by Dr. Johnson in his "Journey to
    the Hebrides:"--"It consists of two stones about a foot and half
    in diameter; the lower is a little convex, to which the
    concavity of the upper must be fitted. In the middle of the
    upper stone is a round hole, and on one side is a long handle.
    The grinder sheds the corn gradually into the hole with one
    hand, and works the handle round with the other. The corn slides
    down the convexity of the lower stone, and by the motion of the
    upper, is ground in its passage." Such a primitive piece of
    machinery, it may safely be said, has entirely disappeared from
    this country.--In other parts of this work, we shall have
    opportunities of speaking of bread and bread-making, which, from
    its great and general use in the nourishment of mankind, has
    emphatically been called the "staff of life." The necessity,
    therefore, of having it both pure and good is of the first
    importance.

CABBAGE SOUP.

118. INGREDIENTS.--1 large cabbage, 3 carrots, 2 onions, 4 or 5 slices of lean bacon, salt
and pepper to taste, 2 quarts of medium stock No. 105.

Mode.--Scald the cabbage, exit it up and drain it. Line the stewpan with the bacon, put in
the cabbage, carrots, and onions; moisten with skimmings from the stock, and simmer very gently,
till the cabbage is tender; add the stock, stew softly for half an hour, and carefully skim
off every particle of fat. Season and serve.

Time.--1-1/2 hour. Average cost, 1s. per quart.

Seasonable in winter.

Sufficient for 8 persons.

    THE CABBAGE.--It is remarkable, that although there is no
    country in the world now more plentifully supplied with fruits
    and vegetables than Great Britain, yet the greater number of
    these had no existence in it before the time of Henry VIII.
    Anderson, writing under the date of 1548, says, "The English
    cultivated scarcely any vegetables before the last two
    centuries. At the commencement of the reign, of Henry VIII.
    neither salad, nor carrots, nor cabbages, nor radishes, nor any
    other comestibles of a like nature, were grown in any part of
    the kingdom; they came from Holland and Flanders." The original
    of all the cabbage tribe is the wild plant sea-colewort, which
    is to be found wasting whatever sweetness it may have on the
    desert air, on many of the cliffs of the south coast of England.
    In this state, it scarcely weighs more than half an ounce, yet,
    in a cultivated state, to what dimensions can it be made to
    grow! However greatly the whole of the tribe is esteemed among
    the moderns, by the ancients they were held in yet higher
    estimation. The Egyptians adored and raised altars to them, and
    the Greeks and Romans ascribed many of the most exalted virtues
    to them. Cato affirmed, that the cabbage cured all diseases, and
    declared, that it was to its use that the Romans were enabled to
    live in health and without the assistance of physicians for 600
    years. It was introduced by that people into Germany, Gaul, and,
    no doubt, Britain; although, in this last, it may have been
    suffered to pass into desuetude for some centuries. The whole
    tribe is in general wholesome and nutritive, and forms a
    valuable adjunct to animal food.

SOUP A LA CANTATRICE.

(An Excellent Soup, very Beneficial for the Voice.)

119. INGREDIENTS.--3 oz. of sago, 1/2 pint of cream, the yolks of 3 eggs, 1 lump of sugar,
and seasoning to taste, 1 bay-leaf (if liked), 2 quarts of medium stock No. 105.

Mode.--Having washed the sago in boiling water, let it be gradually added to the nearly boiling
stock. Simmer for 1/2 an hour, when it should be well dissolved. Beat up the yolks of the eggs,
add to them the boiling cream; stir these quickly in the soup, and serve immediately. Do not
let the soup boil, or the eggs will curdle.

Time.--40 minutes. Average cost, 1s. 6d. per quart.

Seasonable all the year.

Sufficient for 8 persons.

Note.--This is a soup, the principal ingredients of which, sago and eggs, have always been
deemed very beneficial to the chest and throat. In various quantities, and in different preparations,
these have been partaken of by the principal singers of the day, including the celebrated Swedish
Nightingale, Jenny Lind, and, as they have always avowed, with considerable advantage to the
voice, in singing.

CARROT SOUP.

I.

120. INGREDIENTS.--4 quarts of liquor in which a leg of mutton or beef has been boiled, a few
beef-bones, 6 large carrots, 2 large onions, 1 turnip; seasoning of salt and pepper to taste;
cayenne.

Mode.--Put the liquor, bones, onions, turnip, pepper, and salt, into a stewpan, and simmer
for 3 hours. Scrape and cut the carrots thin, strain the soup on them, and stew them till soft
enough to pulp through a hair sieve or coarse cloth; then boil the pulp with the soup, which
should be of the consistency of pea-soup. Add cayenne. Pulp only the red part of the carrot,
and make this soup the day before it is wanted.

Time.--4-1/2 hours. Average cost per quart, 1-1/2d.

Seasonable from October to March.

Sufficient for 10 persons.

II.

121. INGREDIENTS.--2 lbs. of carrots, 3 oz. of butter, seasoning to taste of salt and cayenne,
2 quarts of stock or gravy soup.

Mode.--Scrape and cut out all specks from the carrots, wash, and wipe them dry, and then reduce
them into quarter-inch slices. Put the butter into a large stewpan, and when it is melted,
add 2 lbs. of the sliced carrots, and let them stew gently for an hour without browning. Add
to them the soup, and allow them to simmer till tender,--say for nearly an hour. Press them
through a strainer with the soup, and add salt and cayenne if required. Boil the whole gently
for 5 minutes, skim well, and serve as hot as possible.

Time.--1-1/4 hour. Average cost per quart, 1s. 1d.

    THE CARROT.--There is a wild carrot which grows in England; but
    it is white and small, and not much esteemed. The garden carrot
    in general use, was introduced in the reign of Queen Elizabeth,
    and was, at first, so highly esteemed, that the ladies wore
    leaves of it in their head-dresses. It is of great value in the
    culinary art, especially for soups and stews. It can be used
    also for beer instead of malt, and, in distillation, it yields a
    large quantity of spirit. The carrot is proportionably valuable
    as it has more of the red than the yellow part. There is a large
    red variety much used by the farmers for colouring butter. As a
    garden vegetable, it is what is called the orange-carrot that is
    usually cultivated. As a fattening food for cattle, it is
    excellent; but for man it is indigestible, on account of its
    fibrous matter. Of 1,000 parts, 95 consist of sugar, and 3 of
    starch.--The accompanying cut represents a pretty winter
    ornament, obtained by placing a cut from the top of the
    carrot-root in a shallow vessel of water, when the young leaves
    spring forth with a charming freshness and fullness.

CELERY SOUP.

122. INGREDIENTS.--9 heads of celery, 1 teaspoonful of salt, nutmeg to taste, 1 lump of sugar,
1/2 pint of strong stock, a pint of cream, and 2 quarts of boiling water.

Mode.--Cut the celery into small pieces; throw it into the water, seasoned with the nutmeg,
salt, and sugar. Boil it till sufficiently tender; pass it through a sieve, add the stock,
and simmer it for half an hour. Now put in the cream, bring it to the boiling point, and serve
immediately.

Time.--1 hour. Average cost, 1s. per quart.

Seasonable from September to March.

Sufficient for 10 persons.

Note.--This soup can be made brown, instead of white, by omitting the cream, and colouring
it a little. When celery cannot be procured, half a drachm of the seed, finely pounded, will
give a flavour to the soup, if put in a quarter of an hour before it is done. A little of the
essence of celery will answer the same purpose.

    CELERY.--This plant is indigenous to Britain, and, in its wild
    state, grows by the side of ditches and along some parts of the
    seacoast. In this state it is called smallaqe, and, to some
    extent, is a dangerous narcotic. By cultivation, however, it has
    been brought to the fine flavour which the garden plant
    possesses. In the vicinity of Manchester it is raised to an
    enormous size. When our natural observation is assisted by the
    accurate results ascertained by the light of science, how
    infinitely does it enhance our delight in contemplating the
    products of nature! To know, for example, that the endless
    variety of colour which we see in plants is developed only by
    the rays of the sun, is to know a truism sublime by its very
    comprehensiveness. The cause of the whiteness of celery is
    nothing more than the want of light in its vegetation, and in
    order that this effect may be produced, the plant is almost
    wholly covered with earth; the tops of the leaves alone being
    suffered to appear above the ground.

CHANTILLY SOUP.

123. INGREDIENTS.--1 quart of young green peas, a small bunch of parsley, 2 young onions, 2
quarts of medium stock No. 105.

Mode.--Boil the peas till quite tender, with the parsley and onions; then rub them through
a sieve, and pour the stock to them. Do not let it boil after the peas are added, or you will
spoil the colour. Serve very hot.

Time.--Half an hour. Average cost, 1s. 6d. per quart.

Seasonable from June to the end of August.

Sufficient for 8 persons.

Note.--Cold peas pounded in a mortar, with a little stock added to them, make a very good soup
in haste.

    Parsley.--Among the Greeks, in the classic ages, a crown of
    parsley was awarded, both in the Nemaean and Isthmian games, and
    the voluptuous Anacreon pronounces this beautiful herb the
    emblem of joy and festivity. It has an elegant leaf, and is
    extensively used in the culinary art. When it was introduced to
    Britain is not known. There are several varieties,--the
    plain-leaved and the curled-leaved, celery-parsley,
    Hamburg parsley, and purslane. The curled is the best, and,
    from the form of its leaf, has a beautiful appearance on a dish
    as a garnish. Its flavour is, to many, very agreeable in soups;
    and although to rabbits, hares, and sheep it is a luxury, to
    parrots it is a poison. The celery-parsley is used as a celery,
    and the Hamburg is cultivated only for its roots, which are used
    as parsnips or carrots, to eat with meat. The purslane is a
    native of South America, and is not now much in use.

CHESTNUT (SPANISH) SOUP.

124. INGREDIENTS.--3/4 lb. of Spanish chestnuts, 1/4 pint of cream; seasoning to taste of salt,
cayenne, and mace; 1 quart of stock No. 105.

Mode.--Take the outer rind from the chestnuts, and put them into a large pan of warm water.
As soon as this becomes too hot for the fingers to remain in it, take out the chestnuts, peel
them quickly, and immerse them in cold water, and wipe and weigh them. Now cover them with
good stock, and stew them gently for rather more than 3/4 of an hour, or until they break when
touched with a fork; then drain, pound, and rub them through a fine sieve reversed; add sufficient
stock, mace, cayenne, and salt, and stir it often until it boils, and put in the cream. The
stock in which the chestnuts are boiled can be used for the soup, when its sweetness is not
objected to, or it may, in part, be added to it; and the rule is, that 3/4 lb. of chestnuts
should be given to each quart of soup.

Time.--rather more than 1 hour. Average cost per quart, 1s. 6d.

Seasonable from October to February.

Sufficient for 4 persons.

    THE CHESTNUT.--This fruit is said, by some, to have originally
    come from Sardis, in Lydia; and by others, from Castanea, a city
    of Thessaly, from which it takes its name. By the ancients it
    was much used as a food, and is still common in France and
    Italy, to which countries it is, by some, considered indigenous.
    In the southern part of the European continent, it is eaten both
    raw and roasted. The tree was introduced into Britain by the
    Romans; but it only flourishes in the warmer parts of the
    island, the fruit rarely arriving at maturity in Scotland. It
    attains a great age, as well as an immense size. As a food, it
    is the least oily and most farinaceous of all the nuts, and,
    therefore, the easiest of digestion. The tree called the horse
    chestnut is very different, although its fruit very much
    resembles that of the other. Its "nuts," though eaten by horses
    and some other animals, are unsuitable for human food.

COCOA-NUT SOUP.

125. INGREDIENTS.--6 oz. of grated cocoa-nut, 6 oz. of rice flour, 1/2 a teaspoonful of mace;
seasoning to taste of cayenne and salt; 1/4 of a pint of boiling cream, 3 quarts of medium
stock No. 105.

Mode.--Take the dark rind from the cocoa-nut, and grate it down small on a clean grater; weigh
it, and allow, for each quart of stock, 2 oz. of the cocoa-nut. Simmer it gently for 1 hour
in the stock, which should then be strained closely from it, and thickened for table.

Time.--2-1/4 hours. Average cost per quart, 1s. 3d.

Seasonable in Autumn.

Sufficient for 10 persons.

    THE COCOA-NUT.--This is the fruit of one of the palms, than
    which it is questionable if there is any other species of tree
    marking, in itself, so abundantly the goodness of Providence, in
    making provision for the wants of man. It grows wild in the
    Indian seas, and in the eastern parts of Asia; and thence it has
    been introduced into every part of the tropical regions. To the
    natives of those climates, its bark supplies the material for
    creating their dwellings; its leaves, the means of roofing them;
    and the leaf-stalks, a kind of gauze for covering their windows,
    or protecting the baby in the cradle. It is also made into
    lanterns, masks to screen the face from the heat of the sun,
    baskets, wicker-work, and even a kind of paper for writing on.
    Combs, brooms, torches, ropes, matting, and sailcloth are made
    of its fibers. With these, too, beds are made and cushions
    stuffed. Oars are supplied by the leaves; drinking-cups, spoons,
    and other domestic utensils by the shells of the nuts; milk by
    its juice, of which, also, a kind of honey and sugar are
    prepared. When fermented, it furnishes the means of
    intoxication; and when the fibres are burned, their ashes supply
    an alkali for making soap. The buds of the tree bear a striking
    resemblance to cabbage when boiled; but when they are cropped,
    the tree dies. In a fresh state, the kernel is eaten raw, and
    its juice is a most agreeable and refreshing beverage. When the
    nut is imported to this country, its fruit is, in general,
    comparatively dry, and is considered indigestible. The tree is
    one of the least productive of the palm tribe.

SOUP A LA CRECY.

126. INGREDIENTS.--4 carrots, 2 sliced onions, 1 cut lettuce, and chervil; 2 oz. butter, 1
pint of lentils, the crumbs of 2 French rolls, half a teacupful of rice, 2 quarts of medium
stock No. 105.

Mode.--Put the vegetables with the butter in the stewpan, and let them simmer 5 minutes; then
add the lentils and 1 pint of the stock, and stew gently for half an hour. Now fill it up with
the remainder of the stock, let it boil another hour, and put in the crumb of the rolls. When
well soaked, rub all through a tammy. Have ready the rice boiled; pour the soup over this,
and serve.

Time.--1-3/4 hour. Average cost,1s. 2d. per quart.

Seasonable all the year.

Sufficient for 8 persons.

    THE LENTIL.--This belongs to the legumious or pulse kind of
    vegetables, which rank next to the corn plants in their
    nutritive properties. The lentil is a variety of the bean tribe,
    but in England is not used as human food, although considered
    the best of all kinds for pigeons. On the Continent it is
    cultivated for soups, as well as for other preparations for the
    table; and among the presents which David received from Shobi,
    as recounted in the Scriptures, were beans, lentils, and parched
    pulse. Among the Egyptians it was extensively used, and among
    the Greeks, the Stoics had a maxim, which declared, that "a wise
    man acts always with reason, and prepares his own lentils."
    Among the Romans it was not much esteemed, and from them the
    English may have inherited a prejudice against it, on account,
    it is said, of its rendering men indolent. It takes its name
    from lentus 'slow,' and, according to Pliny, produces mildness
    and moderation of temper.

CUCUMBER SOUP (French Recipe).

127. INGREDIENTS.--1 large cucumber, a piece of butter the size of a walnut, a little chervil
and sorrel cut in large pieces, salt and pepper to taste, the yolks of 2 eggs, 1 gill of cream,
1 quart of medium stock No. 105.

Mode.--Pare the cucumber, quarter it, and take out the seeds; cut it in thin slices, put these
on a plate with a little salt, to draw the water from them; drain, and put them in your stewpan,
with the butter. When they are warmed through, without being browned, pour the stock on them.
Add the sorrel, chervil, and seasoning, and boil for 40 minutes. Mix the well-beaten yolks
of the eggs with the cream, which add at the moment of serving.

Time.--1 hour. Average cost, 1s. 2d. per quart.

Seasonable from June to September.

Sufficient for 4 persons.

    THE CUCUMBER.--The antiquity of this fruit is very great. In the
    sacred writings we find that the people of Israel regretted it,
    whilst sojourning in the desert; and at the present time, the
    cucumber, and other fruits of its class, form a large portion of
    the food of the Egyptian people. By the Eastern nations
    generally, as well as by the Greeks and Romans, it was greatly
    esteemed. Like the melon, it was originally brought from Asia by
    the Romans, and in the 14th century it was common in England,
    although, in the time of the wars of "the Roses," it seems no
    longer to have been cultivated. It is a cold food, and of
    difficult digestion when eaten raw. As a preserved sweetmeat,
    however, it is esteemed one of the most agreeable.

EGG SOUP.

128. INGREDIENTS.--A tablespoonful of flour, 4 eggs, 2 small blades of finely-pounded mace,
2 quarts of stock No. 105.

Mode.--Beat up the flour smoothly in a teaspoonful of cold stock, and put in the eggs; throw
them into boiling stock, stirring all the time. Simmer for 1/4 of an hour. Season and serve
with a French roll in the tureen, or fried sippets of bread.

Time. 1/2 an hour. Average cost,11d. per quart.

Seasonable all the year.

Sufficient for 8 persons.

SOUP A LA FLAMANDE (Flemish).

I.

129. INGREDIENTS.--1 turnip, 1 small carrot, 1/2 head of celery, 6 green onions shred very
fine, 1 lettuce cut small, chervil, 1/4 pint of asparagus cut small, 1/4 pint of peas, 2 oz.
butter, the yolks of 4 eggs, 1/2 pint of cream, salt to taste, 1 lump of sugar, 2 quarts of
stock No. 105.

Mode.--Put the vegetables in the butter to stew gently for an hour with a teacupful of stock;
then add the remainder of the stock, and simmer for another hour. Now beat the yolks of the
eggs well, mix with the cream (previously boiled), and strain through a hair sieve. Take the
soup off the fire, put the eggs, &c. to it, and keep stirring it well. Bring it to a boil,
but do not leave off stirring, or the eggs will curdle. Season with salt, and add the sugar.

Time.--24 hours. Average cost, 1s. 9d. per quart.

Seasonable from May to August.

Sufficient for 8 persons.

    CHERVIL.--Although the roots of this plant are poisonous, its
    leaves are tender, and are used in salads. In antiquity it made
    a relishing dish, when prepared with oil, wine, and gravy. It is
    a native of various parts of Europe; and the species cultivated
    in the gardens of Paris, has beautifully frizzled leaves.

II.

130. INGREDIENTS.--5 onions, 5 heads of celery, 10 moderate-sized potatoes, 3 oz. butter, 1/2
pint of water, 1/2 pint of cream, 2 quarts of stock No. 105.

Mode.--Slice the onions, celery, and potatoes, and put them with the butter and water into
a stewpan, and simmer for an hour. Then fill up the stewpan with stock, and boil gently till
the potatoes are done, which will be in about an hour. Rub all through a tammy, and add the
cream (previously boiled). Do not let it boil after the cream is put in.

Time.--2-1/2 hours. Average cost,1s. 4d. per quart.

Seasonable from September to May.

Sufficient for 8 persons.

Note.--This soup can be made with water instead of stock.

SOUP A LA JULIENNE.

131. INGREDIENTS.--1/2 pint of carrots, 1/2 pint of turnips, 1/4 pint of onions, 2 or 3 leeks,
1/2 head of celery, 1 lettuce, a little sorrel and chervil, if liked, 2 oz. of butter, 2 quarts
of stock No. 105.

Mode.--Cut the vegetables into strips of about 1-1/4 inch long, and be particular they are
all the same size, or some will be hard whilst the others will be done to a pulp. Cut the lettuce,
sorrel, and chervil into larger pieces; fry the carrots in the butter, and pour the stock boiling
to them. When this is done, add all the other vegetables, and herbs, and stew gently for at
least an hour. 3d. per quart.

Seasonable all the year.

Sufficient for 8 persons.

Note.--In summer, green peas, asparagus-tops, French beans, &c. can be added. When the vegetables
are very strong, instead of frying them in butter at first, they should be blanched, and afterwards
simmered in the stock.

    SORREL.--This is one of the spinaceous plants, which take
    their name from spinach, which is the chief among them. It is
    little used in English cookery, but a great deal in French, in
    which it is employed for soups, sauces, and salads. In English
    meadows it is usually left to grow wild; but in France, where it
    is cultivated, its flavour is greatly improved.

KALE BROSE (a Scotch Recipe).

132. INGREDIENTS.--Half an ox-head or cow-heel, a teacupful of toasted oatmeal, salt to taste,
2 handfuls of greens, 3 quarts of water.

Mode.--Make a broth of the ox-head or cow-heel, and boil it till oil floats on the top of the
liquor, then boil the greens, shred, in it. Put the oatmeal, with a little salt, into a basin,
and mix with it quickly a teacupful of the fat broth: it should not run into one doughy mass,
but form knots. Stir it into the whole, give one boil, and serve very hot.

Time.--4 hours. Average cost, 8d. per quart.

Seasonable all the year, but more suitable in winter.

Sufficient for 10 persons.

LEEK SOUP.

I.

133. INGREDIENTS.--A sheep's head, 3 quarts of water, 12 leeks cut small, pepper and salt to
taste, oatmeal to thicken.

Mode.--Prepare the head, either by skinning or cleaning the skin very nicely; split it in two;
take out the brains, and put it into boiling water; add the leeks and seasoning, and simmer
very gently for 4 hours. Mix smoothly, with cold water, as much oatmeal as will make the soup
tolerably thick; pour it into the soup; continue stirring till the whole is blended and well
done, and serve.

Time.--4-1/2 hours. Average cost, 4d. per quart.

Seasonable in winter.

Sufficient for 10 persons.

II.

COMMONLY CALLED COCK-A-LEEKIE.

134. INGREDIENTS.--A capon or large fowl (sometimes an old cock, from which the recipe takes
its name, is used), which should be trussed as for boiling; 2 or 3 bunches of fine leeks, 5
quarts of stock No. 105, pepper and salt to taste.

Mode.--Well wash the leeks (and, if old, scald them in boiling water for a few minutes), taking
off the roots and part of the heads, and cut them into lengths of about an inch. Put the fowl
into the stock, with, at first, one half of the leeks, and allow it to simmer gently. In half
an hour add the remaining leeks, and then it may simmer for 3 or 4 hours longer. It should
be carefully skimmed, and can be seasoned to taste. In serving, take out the fowl, and carve
it neatly, placing the pieces in a tureen, and pouring over them the soup, which should be
very thick of leeks (a purée of leeks the French would call it).

Time.--4 hours. Average cost, 1s. 6d. per quart; or, with stock No. 106, 1s.

Seasonable in winter.

Sufficient for 10 persons.

Note.--Without the fowl, the above, which would then be merely called leek soup, is very good,
and also economical. Cock-a-leekie was largely consumed at the Burns Centenary Festival at
the Crystal Palace, Sydenham, in 1859.

    THE LEEK.--As in the case of the cucumber, this vegetable was
    bewailed by the Israelites in their journey through the desert.
    It is one of the alliaceous tribe, which consists of the onion,
    garlic, chive, shallot, and leek. These, as articles of food,
    are perhaps more widely diffused over the face of the earth than
    any other genus of edible plants. It is the national badge of
    the Welsh, and tradition ascribes to St. David its introduction
    to that part of Britain. The origin of the wearing of the leek
    on St. David's day, among that people, is thus given in
    "BEETON'S DICTIONARY of UNIVERSAL INFORMATION:"--"It probably
    originated from the custom of Cymhortha, or the friendly aid,
    practised among farmers. In some districts of South Wales, all
    the neighbours of a small farmer were wont to appoint a day when
    they attended to plough his land, and the like; and, at such
    time, it was the custom for each to bring his portion of leeks
    with him for making the broth or soup." (See ST. DAVID.)
    Others derive the origin of the custom from the battle of
    Cressy. The plant, when grown in Wales and Scotland, is sharper
    than it is in England, and its flavour is preferred by many to
    that of the onion in broth. It is very wholesome, and, to
    prevent its tainting the breath, should be well boiled.

MACARONI SOUP.

135. INGREDIENTS.--3 oz. of macaroni, a piece of butter the size of a walnut, salt to taste,
2 quarts of clear stock No. 105.

Mode.--Throw the macaroni and butter into boiling water, with a pinch of salt, and simmer for
1/2 an hour. When it is tender, drain and cut it into thin rings or lengths, and drop it into
the boiling stock. Stew gently for 15 minutes, and serve grated Parmesan cheese with it.

Time.--3/4 hour. Average cost, 1s. per quart.

Seasonable all the year.

Sufficient for 8 persons.

    MACARONI.--This is the favourite food of Italy, where,
    especially among the Neapolitans, it may be regarded as the
    staff of life. "The crowd of London," says Mr. Forsyth, "is a
    double line in quick motion; it is the crowd of business. The
    crowd of Naples consists in a general tide rolling up and down,
    and in the middle of this tide, a hundred eddies of men. You are
    stopped by a carpenter's bench, you are lost among shoemakers'
    stalls, and you dash among the pots of a macaroni stall." This
    article of food is nothing more than a thick paste, made of the
    best wheaten flour, with a small quantity of water. When it has
    been well worked, it is put into a hollow cylindrical vessel,
    pierced with holes of the size of tobacco-pipes at the bottom.
    Through these holes the mass is forced by a powerful screw
    bearing on a piece of wood made exactly to fit the inside of the
    cylinder. Whilst issuing from the holes, it is partially baked
    by a fire placed below the cylinder, and is, at the same time,
    drawn away and hung over rods placed about the room, in order to
    dry. In a few days it is fit for use. As it is both wholesome
    and nutritious, it ought to be much more used by all classes in
    England than it is. It generally accompanies Parmesan cheese to
    the tables of the rich, but is also used for thickening soups
    and making puddings.

SOUP MAIGRE (i.e. without Meat).

136. INGREDIENTS.--6 oz. butter, 6 onions sliced, 4 heads of celery, 2 lettuces, a small bunch
of parsley, 2 handfuls of spinach, 3 pieces of bread-crust, 2 blades of mace, salt and pepper
to taste, the yolks of 2 eggs, 3 teaspoonfuls of vinegar, 2 quarts of water.

Mode.--Melt the butter in a stewpan, and put in the onions to stew gently for 3 or 4 minutes;
then add the celery, spinach, lettuces, and parsley, cut small. Stir the ingredients well for
10 minutes. Now put in the water, bread, seasoning, and mace. Boil gently for 1-1/2 hour, and,
at the moment of serving, beat in the yolks of the eggs and the vinegar, but do not let it
boil, or the eggs will curdle.

Time.--2 hours. Average cost, 6d. per quart.

Seasonable all the year.

Sufficient for 8 persons.

    THE LETTUCE.--This is one of the acetarious vegetables, which
    comprise a large class, chiefly used as pickles, salads, and
    other condiments. The lettuce has in all antiquity been
    distinguished as a kitchen-garden plant. It was, without
    preparation, eaten by the Hebrews with the Paschal lamb; the
    Greeks delighted in it, and the Romans, in the time of Domitian,
    had it prepared with eggs, and served in the first course at
    their tables, merely to excite their appetites. Its botanical
    name is Lactuca, so called from the milky juice it exudes when
    its stalks are cut. It possesses a narcotic virtue, noticed by
    ancient physicians; and even in our day a lettuce supper is
    deemed conducive to repose. Its proper character, however, is
    that of a cooling summer vegetable, not very nutritive, but
    serving as a corrective, or diluent of animal food.

MILK SOUP (a Nice Dish for Children).

137. INGREDIENTS.--2 quarts of milk, 1 saltspoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon,
3 teaspoonfuls of pounded sugar, or more if liked, 4 thin slices of bread, the yolks of 6 eggs.

Mode.--Boil the milk with the salt, cinnamon, and sugar; lay the bread in a deep dish, pour
over it a little of the milk, and keep it hot over a stove, without burning. Beat up the yolks
of the eggs, add them to the milk, and stir it over the fire till it thickens. Do not let it
curdle. Pour it upon the bread, and serve.

Time.--3/4 of an hour. Average cost, 8d. per quart.

Seasonable all the year.

Sufficient for 10 children.

ONION SOUP.

138. INGREDIENTS.--6 large onions, 2 oz. of butter, salt and pepper to taste, 1/4 pint of cream,
1 quart of stock No. 105.

Mode.--Chop the onions, put them in the butter, stir them occasionally, but do not let them
brown. When tender, put the stock to them, and season; strain the soup, and add the boiling cream.

CHEAP ONION SOUP.

139. INGREDIENTS.--8 middling-sized onions, 3 oz. of butter, a tablespoonful of rice-flour,
salt and pepper to taste, 1 teaspoonful of powdered sugar, thickening of butter and flour,
2 quarts of water.

Mode.--Cut the onions small, put them in the stewpan with the butter, and fry them well; mix
the rice-flour smoothly with the water, add the onions, seasoning, and sugar, and simmer till
tender. Thicken with butter and flour, and serve.

    THE ONION.--Like the cabbage, this plant was erected into an
    object of worship by the idolatrous Egyptians 2,000 years before
    the Christian era, and it still forms a favourite food in the
    country of these people, as well as in other parts of Africa.
    When it was first introduced to England, has not been
    ascertained; but it has long been in use, and esteemed as a
    favourite seasoning plant to various dishes. In warmer climates
    it is much milder in its flavour; and such as are grown in Spain
    and Portugal, are, comparatively speaking, very large, and are
    often eaten both in a boiled and roasted state. The Strasburg is
    the most esteemed; and, although all the species have highly
    nutritive properties, they impart such a disagreeable odour to
    the breath, that they are often rejected even where they are
    liked. Chewing a little raw parsley is said to remove this
    odour.

PAN KAIL.

140. INGREDIENTS.--2 lbs. of cabbage, or Savoy greens; 1/4 lb. of butter or dripping, salt
and pepper to taste, oatmeal for thickening, 2 quarts of water.

Mode.--Chop the cabbage very fine, thicken the water with oatmeal, put in the cabbage and butter,
or dripping; season and simmer for 1-1/2 hour. It can be made sooner by blanching and mashing
the greens, adding any good liquor that a joint has been boiled in, and then further thicken
with bread or pounded biscuit.

Time--1-1/2 hour. Average cost, 1-1/2d. per quart.

Seasonable all the year, but more suitable in winter.

Sufficient for 8 persons.

    THE SAVOY.--This is a close-hearted wrinkle-leaved cabbage,
    sweet and tender, especially the middle leaves, and in season
    from November to spring. The yellow species bears hard weather
    without injury, whilst the dwarf kind are improved and
    rendered more tender by frost.

PARSNIP SOUP.

141. INGREDIENTS.--1 lb. of sliced parsnips, 2 oz. of butter, salt and cayenne to taste, 1
quart of stock No. 106.

Mode.--Put the parsnips into the stewpan with the butter, which has been previously melted,
and simmer them till quite tender. Then add nearly a pint of stock, and boil together for half
an hour. Pass all through a fine strainer, and put to it the remainder of the stock. Season,
boil, and serve immediately.

Sufficient for 4 persons.

    THE PARSNIP.--This is a biennial plant, with a root like a
    carrot, which, in nutritive and saccharine matter, it nearly
    equals. It is a native of Britain, and, in its wild state, may
    be found, in many parts, growing by the road-sides. It is also
    to be found, generally distributed over Europe; and, in Catholic
    countries, is mostly used with salt fish, in Lent. In Scotland
    it forms an excellent dish, when beat up with butter and
    potatoes; it is, also, excellent when fried. In Ireland it is
    found to yield, in conjunction with the hop, a pleasant
    beverage; and it contains as much spirit as the carrot, and
    makes an excellent wine. Its proportion of nutritive matter is
    99 parts in 1,000; 9 being mucilage and 90 sugar.

PEA SOUP (GREEN).

142. INGREDIENTS.--3 pints of green peas, 1/4 lb. of butter, 2 or three thin slices of ham,
6 onions sliced, 4 shredded lettuces, the crumb of 2 French rolls, 2 handfuls of spinach, 1
lump of sugar, 2 quarts of common stock.

Mode.--Put the butter, ham, 1 quart of the peas, onions, and lettuces, to a pint of stock,
and simmer for an hour; then add the remainder of the stock, with the crumb of the French rolls,
and boil for another hour. Now boil the spinach, and squeeze it very dry. Rub the soup through
a sieve, and the spinach with it, to colour it. Have ready a pint of young peas boiled; add
them to the soup, put in the sugar, give one boil, and serve. If necessary, add salt. 9d. per
quart.

Seasonable from June to the end of August.

Sufficient for 10 persons.

Note.--It will be well to add, if the peas are not quite young, a little sugar. Where economy
is essential, water may be used instead of stock for this soup, boiling in it likewise the
pea-shells; but use a double quantity of vegetables.

WINTER PEA SOUP (YELLOW).

143. INGREDIENTS.--1 quart of split peas, 2 lbs. of shin of beef, trimmings of meat or poultry,
a slice of bacon, 2 large carrots, 2 turnips, 5 large onions, 1 head of celery, seasoning to
taste, 2 quarts of soft water, any bones left from roast meat, 2 quarts of common stock, or
liquor in which a joint of meat has been boiled.

Mode.--Put the peas to soak over-night in soft water, and float off such as rise to the top.
Boil them in the water till tender enough to pulp; then add the ingredients mentioned above,
and simmer for 2 hours, stirring it occasionally. Pass the whole through a sieve, skim well,
season, and serve with toasted bread cut in dice.

Time.--4 hours. Average cost, 6d. per quart. Seasonable all the year round, but more suitable
for cold weather. Sufficient for 12 persons.

    THE PEA.--It is supposed that the common gray pea, found wild in
    Greece, and other parts of the Levant, is the original of the
    common garden pea, and of all the domestic varieties belonging
    to it. The gray, or field pea, called bisallie by the French,
    is less subject to run into varieties than the garden kinds, and
    is considered by some, perhaps on that account, to be the wild
    plant, retaining still a large proportion of its original habit.
    From the tendency of all other varieties "to run away" and
    become different to what they originally were, it is very
    difficult to determine the races to which they belong. The pea
    was well known to the Romans, and, probably, was introduced to
    Britain at an early period; for we find peas mentioned by
    Lydgate, a poet of the 15th century, as being hawked in London.
    They seem, however, for a considerable time, to have fallen out
    of use; for, in the reign of Queen Elizabeth, Fuller tells us
    they were brought from Holland, and were accounted "fit dainties
    for ladies, they came so far and cost so dear." There are some
    varieties of peas which have no lining in their pods, which are
    eaten cooked in the same way as kidney-beans. They are called
    sugar peas, and the best variety is the large crooked sugar,
    which is also very good, used in the common way, as a culinary
    vegetable. There is also a white sort, which readily splits when
    subjected to the action of millstones set wide apart, so as not
    to grind them. These are used largely for soups, and especially
    for sea-stores. From the quantity of farinaceous and saccharine
    matter contained in the pea, it is highly nutritious as an
    article of food.

PEA SOUP (inexpensive).

144. INGREDIENTS.--1/4 lb. of onions, 1/4 lb. of carrots, 2 oz. of celery, 3/4 lb. of split
peas, a little mint, shred fine; 1 tablespoonful of coarse brown sugar, salt and pepper to
taste, 4 quarts of water, or liquor in which a joint of meat has been boiled.

Mode.--Fry the vegetables for 10 minutes in a little butter or dripping, previously cutting
them up in small pieces; pour the water on them, and when boiling add the peas. Let them simmer
for nearly 3 hours, or until the peas are thoroughly done. Add the sugar, seasoning, and mint;
boil for 1/4 of an hour, and serve.

Time.--3-1/2 hours. Average cost, 1-1/2d. per quart.

Seasonable in winter.

Sufficient for 12 persons.

POTATO SOUP.

I.

145. INGREDIENTS.--4 lbs. of mealy potatoes, boiled or steamed very dry, pepper and salt to
taste, 2 quarts of stock No. 105.

Mode.--When the potatoes are boiled, mash them smoothly, that no lumps remain, and gradually
put them to the boiling stock; pass it through a sieve, season, and simmer for 5 minutes. Skim
well, and serve with fried bread.

Time.--1/2 hour. Average cost, 10d. per quart.

Seasonable from September to March.

Sufficient for 8 persons.

II.

146. INGREDIENTS.--1 lb. of shin of beef, 1 lb. of potatoes, 1 onion, 1/2 a pint of peas, 2
oz. of rice, 2 heads of celery, pepper and salt to taste, 3 quarts of water.

Mode.--Cut the beef into thin slices, chop the potatoes and onion, and put them in a stewpan
with the water, peas, and rice. Stew gently till the gravy is drawn from the meat; strain it
off, take out the beef, and pulp the other ingredients through a coarse sieve. Put the pulp
back in the soup, cut up the celery in it, and simmer till this is tender. Season, and serve
with fried bread cut into it.

Time.--3 hours. Average cost, 4d. per quart.

Seasonable from September to March.

Sufficient for 12 persons.

III.

(Very Economical.)

147. INGREDIENTS.--4 middle-sized potatoes well pared, a thick slice of bread, 6 leeks peeled
and cut into thin slices as far as the white extends upwards from the roots, a teacupful of
rice, a teaspoonful of salt, and half that of pepper, and 2 quarts of water.

Mode.--The water must be completely boiling before anything is put into it; then add the whole
of the ingredients at once, with the exception of the rice, the salt, and the pepper. Cover,
and let these come to a brisk boil; put in the others, and let the whole boil slowly for an
hour, or till all the ingredients are thoroughly done, and their several juices extracted and
mixed.

Time.--2-1/2 hours. Average cost, 3d. per quart.

Sufficient for 8 persons.

Seasonable in winter.

    THE POTATO.--Humboldt doubted whether this root was a native of
    South America; but it has been found growing wild both in Chili
    and Buenos Ayres. It was first brought to Spain from the
    neighbourhood of Quito, in the early part of the sixteenth
    century, first to England from Virginia, in 1586, and first
    planted by Sir Walter Raleigh, on his estate of Youghal, near
    Cork, in Ireland. Thence it was brought and planted in
    Lancashire, in England, and was, at first, recommended to be
    eaten as a delicate dish, and not as common food. This was in
    1587. Nutritious Properties.--Of a thousand parts of the
    potato, Sir H. Davy found about a fourth nutritive; say, 200
    mucilage or starch, 20 sugar, and 30 gluten.

PRINCE OF WALES'S SOUP.

148. INGREDIENTS.--12 turnips, 1 lump of sugar, 2 spoonfuls of strong veal stock, salt and
white pepper to taste, 2 quarts of very bright stock, No. 105.

Mode.--Peel the turnips, and with a cutter cut them in balls as round as possible, but very
small. Put them in the stock, which must be very bright, and simmer till tender. Add the veal
stock and seasoning. Have little pieces of bread cut round, about the size of a shilling; moisten
them with stock; put them into a tureen and pour the soup over without shaking, for fear of
crumbling the bread, which would spoil the appearance of the soup, and make it look thick.

Time.--2 hours.

Seasonable in the winter.

Sufficient for 8 persons.

    THE PRINCE Of WALES.--This soup was invented by a philanthropic
    friend of the Editress, to be distributed among the poor of a
    considerable village, when the Prince of Wales attained his
    majority, on the 9th November, 1859. Accompanying this fact, the
    following notice, which appears in "BEETON'S DICTIONARY OF
    UNIVERSAL INFORMATION" may appropriately be introduced,
    premising that British princes attain their majority in their
    18th year, whilst mortals of ordinary rank do not arrive at that
    period till their 21st.--"ALBERT EDWARD, Prince of Wales, and
    heir to the British throne, merits a place in this work on
    account of the high responsibilities which he is, in all
    probability, destined to fulfil as sovereign of the British
    empire. On the 10th of November, 1858, he was gazetted as having
    been invested with the rank of a colonel in the army. Speaking
    of this circumstance, the Times said,--'The significance of
    this event is, that it marks the period when the heir to the
    British throne is about to take rank among men, and to enter
    formally upon a career, which every loyal subject of the queen
    will pray may be a long and a happy one, for his own sake and
    for the sake of the vast empire which, in the course of nature,
    he will one day be called to govern. The best wish that we can
    offer for the young prince is, that in his own path he may ever
    keep before him the bright example of his royal mother, and show
    himself worthy of her name.' There are few in these realms who
    will not give a fervent response to these sentiments. B.
    November 9th, 1841."

POTAGE PRINTANIER, OR SPRING SOUP.

149. INGREDIENTS.--1/2 a pint of green peas, if in season, a little chervil, 2 shredded lettuces,
2 onions, a very small bunch of parsley, 2 oz. of butter, the yolks of 3 eggs, 1 pint of water,
seasoning to taste, 2 quarts of stock No. 105.

Mode.--Put in a very clean stewpan the chervil, lettuces, onions, parsley, and butter, to 1
pint of water, and let them simmer till tender. Season with salt and pepper; when done, strain
off the vegetables, and put two-thirds of the liquor they were boiled in to the stock. Beat
up the yolks of the eggs with the other third, give it a toss over the fire, and at the moment
of serving, add this, with the vegetables which you strained off, to the soup.

Sufficient for 8 persons.

RICE SOUP.

I.

150. INGREDIENTS.--4 oz. of Patna rice, salt, cayenne, and mace, 2 quarts of white stock.

Mode.--Throw the rice into boiling water, and let it remain 5 minutes; then pour it into a
sieve, and allow it to drain well. Now add it to the stock boiling, and allow it to stew till
it is quite tender; season to taste. Serve quickly.

    RICE.--This is a plant of Indian origin, and has formed the
    principal food of the Indian and Chinese people from the most
    remote antiquity. Both Pliny and Dioscorides class it with the
    cereals, though Galen places it among the vegetables. Be this as
    it may, however, it was imported to Greece, from India, about
    286 years before Christ, and by the ancients it was esteemed
    both nutritious and fattening. There are three kinds of
    rice,--the Hill rice, the Patna, and the Carolina, of the United
    States. Of these, only the two latter are imported to this
    country, and the Carolina is considered the best, as it is the
    dearest. The nourishing properties of rice are greatly inferior
    to those of wheat; but it is both a light and a wholesome food.
    In combination with other foods, its nutritive qualities are
    greatly increased; but from its having little stimulating power,
    it is apt, when taken in large quantities alone, to lie long on
    the stomach.

II.

151.

Sufficient for 8 persons.

SAGO SOUP.

152. INGREDIENTS.--5 oz. of sago, 2 quarts of stock No. 105.

Mode.--Wash the sago in boiling water, and add it, by degrees, to the boiling stock, and simmer
till the sago is entirely dissolved, and forms a sort of jelly.

Time.--Nearly an hour. Average cost, 10d. per quart.

Sufficient for 8 persons.

Seasonable all the year.

Note.--The yolks of 2 eggs, beaten up with a little cream, previously boiled, and added at
the moment of serving, much improves this soup.

    SAGO.--The farinaceous food of this name constitutes the pith of
    the SAGO tree (the Sagus farinifera of Linnaeus), which grows
    spontaneously in the East Indies and in the archipelago of the
    Indian Ocean. There it forms the principal farinaceous diet of
    the inhabitants. In order to procure it, the tree is felled and
    sawn in pieces. The pith is then taken out, and put in
    receptacles of cold water, where it is stirred until the flour
    separates from the filaments, and sinks to the bottom, where it
    is suffered to remain until the water is poured off, when it is
    taken out and spread on wicker frames to dry. To give it the
    round granular form in which we find it come to this country, it
    is passed through a colander, then rubbed into little balls, and
    dried. The tree is not fit for felling until it has attained a
    growth of seven years, when a single trunk will yield 600 lbs.
    weight; and, as an acre of ground will grow 430 of these trees,
    a large return of flour is the result. The best quality has a
    slightly reddish hue, and easily dissolves to a jelly, in hot
    water. As a restorative diet, it is much used.

SEMOLINA SOUP.

153. INGREDIENTS.--5 oz. of semolina, 2 quarts of boiling stock, No. 105, or 106.

Mode.--Drop the semolina into the boiling stock, and keep stirring, to prevent its burning.
Simmer gently for half an hour, and serve.

Seasonable all the year.

Sufficient for 8 persons.

    SEMOLINA.--This is the heart of the grano duro wheat of Italy,
    which is imported for the purpose of making the best vermicelli.
    It has a coarse appearance, and may be purchased at the Italian
    warehouses. It is also called soojee; and semoletta is
    another name for a finer sort.

SOUP A LA SOLFERINO (Sardinian Recipe).

154. INGREDIENTS.--4 eggs, 1/2 pint of cream, 2 oz. of fresh butter, salt and pepper to taste,
a little flour to thicken, 2 quarts of bouillon, No. 105.

Mode.--Beat the eggs, put them into a stewpan, and add the cream, butter, and seasoning; stir
in as much flour as will bring it to the consistency of dough; make it into balls, either round
or egg-shaped, and fry them in butter; put them in the tureen, and pour the boiling bouillon
over them. He willingly enough consented, and found that these clever campaigners had made
a most palatable dish from very easily-procured materials. In sending the recipe for insertion
in this work, he has, however, Anglicised, and somewhat, he thinks, improved it.

SPINACH SOUP (French Recipe).

155. INGREDIENTS.--As much spinach as, when boiled, will half fill a vegetable-dish, 2 quarts
of very clear medium stock, No. 105.

Mode.--Make the cooked spinach into balls the size of an egg, and slip them into the soup-tureen.
This is a very elegant soup, the green of the spinach forming a pretty contrast to the brown gravy.

    SPINACH.--This plant was unknown by the ancients, although it
    was cultivated in the monastic gardens of the continent in the
    middle of the 14th century. Some say, that it was originally
    brought from Spain; but there is a wild species growing in
    England, and cultivated in Lincolnshire, in preference to the
    other. There are three varieties in use; the round-leaved, the
    triangular-leaved, and Flanders spinach, known by its large
    leaves. They all form a useful ingredient in soup; but the
    leaves are sometimes boiled alone, mashed, and eaten as greens.

TAPIOCA SOUP.

156. INGREDIENTS.--5 oz. of tapioca, 2 quarts of stock No. 105 or 106.

Mode.--Put the tapioca into cold stock, and bring it gradually to a boil. Simmer gently till
tender, and serve.

Time.--Rather more than 1 hour.

    TAPIOCA.--This excellent farinaceous food is the produce of the
    pith of the cassava-tree, and is made in the East Indies, and
    also in Brazil. It is, by washing, procured as a starch from the
    tree, then dried, either in the sun or on plates of hot iron,
    and afterwards broken into grains, in which form it is imported
    into this country. Its nutritive properties are large, and as a
    food for persons of delicate digestion, or for children, it is
    in great estimation. "No amylaceous substance," says Dr.
    Christison, "is so much relished by infants about the time of
    weaning; and in them it is less apt to become sour during
    digestion than any other farinaceous food, even arrowroot not
    excepted."

TURNIP SOUP.

157. INGREDIENTS.--3 oz. of butter, 9 good-sized turnips, 4 onions, 2 quarts of stock No. 106,
seasoning to taste.

Mode.--Melt the butter in the stewpan, but do not let it boil; wash, drain, and slice the turnips
and onions very thin; put them in the butter, with a teacupful of stock, and stew very gently
for an hour. Then add the remainder of the stock, and simmer another hour. Rub it through a
tammy, put it back into the stewpan, but do not let it boil. Serve very hot.

Time.--2-1/2 hours. Average cost, 8d. per quart.

Seasonable from October to March.

Sufficient for 8 persons.

Note.--By adding a little cream, this soup will be much improved.

    THE TURNIP.--Although turnips grow wild in England, they are not
    the original of the cultivated vegetable made use of in this
    country. In ancient times they were grown for cattle by the
    Romans, and in Germany and the Low Countries they have from time
    immemorial been raised for the same purpose. In their cultivated
    state, they are generally supposed to have been introduced to
    England from Hanover, in the time of George I.; but this has
    been doubted, as George II. caused a description of the Norfolk
    system to be sent to his Hanoverian subjects, for their
    enlightenment in the art of turnip culture. As a culinary
    vegetable, it is excellent, whether eaten alone, mashed, or
    mixed with soups und stews. Its nutritious matter, however, is
    small, being only 42 parts in 1,000.

VEGETABLE-MARROW SOUP.

158. INGREDIENTS.--4 young vegetable marrows, or more, if very small, 1/2 pint of cream, salt
and white pepper to taste, 2 quarts of white stock, No. 107.

Mode.--Pare and slice the marrows, and put them in the stock boiling. When done almost to a
mash, press them through a sieve, and at the moment of serving, add the boiling cream and seasoning.

Sufficient for 8 persons.

    THE VEGETABLE MARROW.--This is a variety of the gourd family,
    brought from Persia by an East-India ship, and only recently
    introduced to Britain. It is already cultivated to a
    considerable extent, and, by many, is highly esteemed when fried
    with butter. It is, however, dressed in different ways, either
    by stewing or boiling, and, besides, made into pies.

VEGETABLE SOUP.

I.

159. INGREDIENTS.--7 oz. of carrot, 10 oz. of parsnip, 10 oz. of potato, cut into thin slices;
1-1/4 oz. of butter, 5 teaspoonfuls of flour, a teaspoonful of made mustard, salt and pepper
to taste, the yolks of 2 eggs, rather more than 2 quarts of water.

Mode.--Boil the vegetables in the water 2-1/2 hours; stir them often, and if the water boils
away too quickly, add more, as there should be 2 quarts of soup when done. Mix up in a basin
the butter and flour, mustard, salt, and pepper, with a teacupful of cold water; stir in the
soup, and boil 10 minutes. Have ready the yolks of the eggs in the tureen; pour on, stir well,
and serve.

II.

160. INGREDIENTS.--Equal quantities of onions, carrots, turnips; 1/4 lb. of butter, a crust
of toasted bread, 1 head of celery, a faggot of herbs, salt and pepper to taste, 1 teaspoonful
of powdered sugar, 2 quarts of common stock or boiling water. Allow 3/4 lb. of vegetables to
2 quarts of stock, No. 105.

Mode.--Cut up the onions, carrots, and turnips; wash and drain them well, and put them in the
stewpan with the butter and powdered sugar. Toss the whole over a sharp fire for 10 minutes,
but do not let them brown, or you will spoil the flavour of the soup. When done, pour the stock
or boiling water on them; add the bread, celery, herbs, and seasoning; stew for 3 hours; skim
well and strain it off. When ready to serve, add a little sliced carrot, celery, and turnip,
and flavour with a spoonful of Harvey's sauce, or a little ketchup.

III.

(Good and Cheap, made without Meat.)

161. INGREDIENTS.--6 potatoes, 4 turnips, or 2 if very large; 2 carrots, 2 onions; if obtainable,
2 mushrooms; 1 head of celery, 1 large slice of bread, 1 small saltspoonful of salt, 1/4 saltspoonful
of ground black pepper, 2 teaspoonfuls of Harvey's sauce, 6 quarts of water.

Mode.--Peel the vegetables, and cut them up into small pieces; toast the bread rather brown,
and put all into a stewpan with the water and seasoning. Simmer gently for 3 hours, or until
all is reduced to a pulp, and pass it through a sieve in the same way as pea-soup, which it
should resemble in consistence; but it should be a dark brown colour. Warm it up again when
required; put in the Harvey's sauce, and, if necessary, add to the flavouring.

Time.--3 hours, or rather more. Average cost,1d. per quart.

Seasonable at any time. Sufficient for 16 persons.

Note.--This recipe was forwarded to the Editress by a lady in the county of Durham, by whom
it was strongly recommended.

VERMICELLI SOUP.

I.

162. INGREDIENTS.--1-1/2 lb. of bacon, stuck with cloves; 1/2 oz. of butter, worked up in flour;
1 small fowl, trussed for boiling; 2 oz. of vermicelli, 2 quarts of white stock, No. 107.

Mode.--Put the stock, bacon, butter, and fowl into the stewpan, and stew for 3/4 of an hour.
Take the vermicelli, add it to a little of the stock, and set it on the fire, till it is quite
tender. When the soup is ready, take out the fowl and bacon, and put the bacon on a dish. Skim
the soup as clean as possible; pour it, with the vermicelli, over the fowl. Cut some bread
thin, put in the soup, and serve.

Time.--2 hours. Average cost, exclusive of the fowl and bacon, 10d. per quart.

Seasonable in winter.

Sufficient for 4 persons.

    VERMICELLI.--This is a preparation of Italian origin, and is
    made in the same way as macaroni, only the yolks of eggs, sugar,
    saffron, and cheese, are added to the paste.

II.

163. INGREDIENTS.--1/4 lb. of vermicelli, 2 quarts of clear gravy stock, No. 169.

Mode.--Put the vermicelli in the soup, boiling; simmer very gently for 1/2 an hour, and stir
frequently.

WHITE SOUP.

164. INGREDIENTS.--1/4 lb. of sweet almonds, 1/4 lb. of cold veal or poultry, a thick slice
of stale bread, a piece of fresh lemon-peel, 1 blade of mace, pounded, 3/4 pint of cream, the
yolks of 2 hard-boiled eggs, 2 quarts of white stock, No. 107.

Mode.--Reduce the almonds in a mortar to a paste, with a spoonful of water, and add to them
the meat, which should be previously pounded with the bread. Beat all together, and add the
lemon-peel, very finely chopped, and the mace. Pour the boiling stock on the whole, and simmer
for an hour. Rub the eggs in the cream, put in the soup, bring it to a boil, and serve immediately.
Vermicelli should be served with it.

Average cost, 5d. per quart.

USEFUL SOUP FOR BENEVOLENT PURPOSES.

165. INGREDIENTS.--An ox-cheek, any pieces of trimmings of beef, which may be bought very cheaply
(say 4 lbs.), a few bones, any pot-liquor the larder may furnish, 1/4 peck of onions, 6 leeks,
a large bunch of herbs, 1/2 lb. of celery (the outside pieces, or green tops, do very well);
1/2 lb. of carrots, 1/2 lb. of turnips, 1/2 lb. of coarse brown sugar, 1/2 a pint of beer,
4 lbs. of common rice, or pearl barley; 1/2 lb. of salt, 1 oz. of black pepper, a few raspings,
10 gallons of water.

Mode.--Cut up the meat in small pieces, break the bones, put them in a copper, with the 10
gallons of water, and stew for 1/2 an hour. Cut up the vegetables, put them in with the sugar
and beer, and boil for 4 hours. Two hours before the soup is wanted, add the rice and raspings,
and keep stirring till it is well mixed in the soup, which simmer gently. If the liquor reduces
too much, fill up with water.

Note.--The above recipe was used in the winter of 1858 by the Editress, who made, each week,
in her copper, 8 or 9 gallons of this soup, for distribution amongst about a dozen families
of the village near which she lives. The cost, as will be seen, was not great; but she has
reason to believe that the soup was very much liked, and gave to the members of those families,
a dish of warm, comforting food, in place of the cold meat and piece of bread which form, with
too many cottagers, their usual meal, when, with a little more knowledge of the "cooking."
art, they might have, for less expense, a warm dish, every day.

MEAT, POULTRY, AND GAME SOUPS.

BRILLA SOUP.

166. INGREDIENTS.--4 lbs. of shin of beef, 3 carrots, 2 turnips, a large sprig of thyme, 2
onions, 1 head of celery, salt and pepper to taste, 4 quarts water.

Mode.--Take the beef, cut off all the meat from the bone, in nice square pieces, and boil the
bone for 4 hours. Strain the liquor, let it cool, and take off the fat; then put the pieces
of meat in the cold liquor; cut small the carrots, turnips, and celery; chop the onions, add
them with the thyme and seasoning, and simmer till the meat is tender. If not brown enough,
colour it with browning.

Time.--6 hours. Average cost, 5d. per quart.

Seasonable all the year.

Sufficient for 10 persons.

    THYME.--This sweet herb was known to the Romans, who made use of
    it in culinary preparations, as well as in aromatic liqueurs.
    There are two species of it growing wild in Britain, but the
    garden thyme is a native of the south of Europe, and is more
    delicate in its perfume than the others. Its young leaves give
    an agreeable flavour to soups and sauces; they are also used in
    stuffings.

CALF'S-HEAD SOUP.

167. INGREDIENTS.--1/2 a calf's head, 1 onion stuck with cloves, a very small bunch of sweet
herbs, 2 blades of mace, salt and white pepper to taste, 6 oz. of rice-flour, 3 tablespoonfuls
of ketchup, 3 quarts of white stock, No. 107, or pot-liquor, or water.

Mode.--Rub the head with salt, soak it for 6 hours, and clean it thoroughly; put it in the
stewpan, and cover it with the stock, or pot-liquor, or water, adding the onion and sweet herbs.
When well skimmed and boiled for 1-1/2 hour, take out the head, and skim and strain the soup.
Mix the rice-flour with the ketchup, thicken the soup with it, and simmer for 5 minutes. Now
cut up the head into pieces about two inches long, and simmer them in the soup till the meat
and fat are quite tender. Season with white pepper and mace finely pounded, and serve very
hot. When the calf's head is taken out of the soup, cover it up, or it will discolour.

Seasonable from May to October.

Sufficient for 10 persons.

Note.--Force-meat balls can be added, and the soup may be flavoured with a little lemon-juice,
or a glass of sherry or Madeira. The bones from the head may be stewed down again, with a few
fresh vegetables, and it will make a very good common stock.

GIBLET SOUP.

168.

Mode.--Scald the giblets, cut the gizzards in 8 pieces, and put them in a stewpan with the
beef, bones, ox-tail, mutton-shanks, onions, herbs, pepper, and salt; add the 3 quarts of water,
and simmer till the giblets are tender, taking care to skim well. When the giblets are done,
take them out, put them in your tureen, strain the soup through a sieve, add the cream and
butter, mixed with a dessert-spoonful of flour, boil it up a few minutes, and pour it over
the giblets. It can be flavoured with port wine and a little mushroom ketchup, instead of cream.
Add salt to taste.

Time.--3 hours. Average cost,9d. per quart.

Seasonable all the year.

Sufficient for 10 persons.

GRAVY SOUP.

169. INGREDIENTS.--6 lbs. of shin of beef, a knuckle of veal weighing 5 lbs., a few pieces
or trimmings, 2 slices of nicely-flavoured lean, ham; 1/4 lb. of butter, 2 onions, 2 carrots,
1 turnip, nearly a head of celery, 1 blade of mace, 6 cloves, a hunch of savoury herb with
endive, seasoning of salt and pepper to taste, 3 lumps of sugar, 5 quarts of boiling soft water.
It can be flavoured with ketchup, Leamington sauce (see SAUCES), Harvey's sauce, and a little soy.

Mode.--Slightly brown the meat and ham in the butter, but do not let them burn. When this is
done, pour to it the water, and as the scum rises, take it off; when no more appears, add all
the other ingredients, and let the soup simmer slowly by the fire for 6 hours without stirring
it any more from the bottom; take it off, and let it settle; skim off all the fat you can,
and pass it through a tammy. When perfectly cold, you can remove all the fat, and leave the
sediment untouched, which serves very nicely for thick gravies, hashes, &c.

Time.--7 hours. Average cost, 1s. per quart.

Seasonable all the year.

Sufficient for 14 persons.

    ENDIVE.--This plant belongs to the acetarious tribe of
    vegetables, and is supposed to have originally come from China
    and Japan. It was known to the ancients; but was not introduced
    to England till about the middle of the 16th century. It is
    consumed in large quantities by the French, and in London,--in
    the neighbourhood of which it is grown in abundance;--it is
    greatly used as a winter salad, as well as in soups and stews.

HARE SOUP.

I.

170. INGREDIENTS.--A hare fresh-killed, 1 lb. of lean gravy-beef, a slice of ham, 1 carrot,
2 onions, a faggot of savoury herbs, 1/4 oz. of whole black pepper, a little browned flour,
1/4 pint of port wine, the crumb of two French rolls, salt and cayenne to taste, 3 quarts of water.

Mode.--Skin and paunch the hare, saving the liver and as much blood as possible. Cut it in
pieces, and put it in a stewpan with all the ingredients, and simmer gently for 8 hours. This
soup should be made the day before it is wanted. Strain through a sieve, put the best parts
of the hare in the soup, and serve.

OR,

II.

Proceed as above; but, instead of putting the joints of the hare in the soup, pick the meat
from the bones, pound it in a mortar, and add it, with the crumb of two French rolls, to the
soup. Rub all through a sieve; heat slowly, but do not let it boil. Send it to table immediately.

Time.-8 hours. Average cost, 1s. 9d. per quart.

Seasonable from September to February.

Sufficient for 10 persons.

    THE COMMON HARE.--This little animal is found throughout Europe,
    and, indeed, in most of the northern parts of the world; and as
    it is destitute of natural weapons of defence, Providence has
    endowed it with an extraordinary amount of the passion of fear.
    As if to awaken the vigilance of this passion, too, He has
    furnished it with long and tubular ears, in order that it may
    catch the remotest sounds; and with full, prominent eyes, which
    enable it to see, at one and the same time, both before and
    behind it. The hare feeds in the evenings, and sleeps, in its
    form, during the day; and, as it generally lies on the ground,
    its feet, both below and above, are protected with a thick
    covering of hair. Its flesh, though esteemed by the Romans, was
    forbidden by the Druids and by the earlier Britons. It is now,
    though very dark and dry, and devoid of fat, much esteemed by
    Europeans, on account of the peculiarity of its flavour. In
    purchasing this animal, it ought to be remembered that both
    hares and rabbits, when old, have their claws rugged and blunt,
    their haunches thick, and their ears dry and tough. The ears of
    a young hare easily tear, and it has a narrow cleft in the lip;
    whilst its claws are both smooth and sharp.

HESSIAN SOUP.

171. INGREDIENTS.--Half an ox's head, 1 pint of split peas, 3 carrots, 6 turnips, 6 potatoes,
6 onions, 1 head of celery, 1 bunch of savoury herbs, pepper and salt to taste, 2 blades of
mace, a little allspice, 4 cloves, the crumb of a French roll, 6 quarts of water.

Mode.--Clean the head, rub it with salt and water, and soak it for 5 hours in warm water. Simmer
it in the water till tender, put it into a pan and let it cool; skim off all the fat; take
out the head, and add the vegetables cut up small, and the peas which have been previously
soaked; simmer them without the meat, till they are done enough to pulp through a sieve. Add
the seasoning, with pieces of the meat cut up; give one boil, and serve.

Sufficient for 16 persons.

Note.--An excellent hash or ragoût can be made by cutting up the nicest parts of the head,
thickening and seasoning more highly a little of the soup, and adding a glass of port wine
and 2 tablespoonfuls of ketchup.

MOCK TURTLE.

I.

172. INGREDIENTS.--1/2 a calf's head, 1/4 lb. of butter, 1/4 lb. of lean ham, 2 tablespoonfuls
of minced parsley, a little minced lemon thyme, sweet marjoram, basil, 2 onions, a few chopped
mushrooms (when obtainable), 2 shallots, 2 tablespoonfuls of flour, 1/4 bottle of Madeira or
sherry, force-meat balls, cayenne, salt and mace to taste, the juice of 1 lemon and 1 Seville
orange, 1 dessert-spoonful of pounded sugar, 3 quarts of best stock, No. 104.

Mode.--Scald the head with the skin on, remove the brain, tie the head up in a cloth, and let
it boil for 1 hour. Then take the meat from the bones, cut it into small square pieces, and
throw them into cold water. Now take the meat, put it into a stewpan, and cover with stock;
let it boil gently for an hour, or rather more, if not quite tender, and set it on one side.
Melt the butter in another stewpan, and add the ham, cut small, with the herbs, parsley, onions,
shallots, mushrooms, and nearly a pint of stock; let these simmer slowly for 2 hours, and then
dredge in as much flour as will dry up the butter. Fill up with the remainder of the stock,
add the wine, let it stew gently for 10 minutes, rub it through a tammy, and put it to the
calf's head; season with cayenne, and, if required, a little salt; add the juice of the orange
and lemon; and when liked, 1/4 teaspoonful of pounded mace, and the sugar. Put in the force-meat
balls, simmer 5 minutes, and serve very hot.

Time.--4-1/2 hours. Average cost, 3s. 6d. per quart, or 2s. 6d. without wine or force-meat balls.

Seasonable in winter.

Sufficient for 10 persons.

Note.--The bones of the head should be well stewed in the liquor it was first boiled in, and
will make good white stock, flavoured with vegetables, etc.

II.

(More Economical.)

173. INGREDIENTS.--A knuckle of veal weighing 5 or 6 lbs., 2 cow-heels, 2 large onions stuck
with cloves, 1 bunch of sweet herbs, 3 blades of mace, salt to taste, 12 peppercorns, 1 glass
of sherry, 24 force-meat balls, a little lemon-juice, 4 quarts of water.

Mode.--Put all the ingredients, except the force-meat balls and lemon-juice, in an earthen
jar, and stew for 6 hours. Do not open it till cold. When wanted for use, skim off all the
fat, and strain carefully; place it on the fire, cut up the meat into inch-and-a-half squares,
put it, with the force-meat balls and lemon-juice, into the soup, and serve. It can be flavoured
with a tablespoonful of anchovy, or Harvey's sauce.

Time.--6 hours. Average cost,1s. 4d. per quart.

Seasonable in winter.

Sufficient for 10 persons.

    THE CALF--The flesh of this animal is called veal, and when
    young, that is, under two months old, yields a large quantity of
    soluble extract, and is, therefore, much employed for soups and
    broths. The Essex farmers have obtained a celebrity for
    fattening calves better than any others in England, where they
    are plentifully supplied with milk, a thing impossible to be
    done in the immediate neighbourhood of London.

    MARJORAM.--There are several species of this plant; but that
    which is preferred for cookery is a native of Portugal, and is
    called sweet or knotted marjoram. When its leaves are dried,
    they have an agreeable aromatic flavour; and hence are used for
    soups, stuffings, &c.

    BASIL.--This is a native of the East Indies, and is highly
    aromatic, having a perfume greatly resembling that of cloves. It
    is not much employed in English cookery, but is a favourite with
    French cooks, by whom its leaves are used in soups and salads.

MULLAGATAWNY SOUP.

174. INGREDIENTS.--2 tablespoonfuls of curry powder, 6 onions, 1 clove of garlic, 1 oz. of
pounded almonds, a little lemon-pickle, or mango-juice, to taste; 1 fowl or rabbit, 4 slices
of lean bacon; 2 quarts of medium stock, or, if wanted very good, best stock.

Mode.-=Slice and fry the onions of a nice colour; line the stewpan with the bacon; cut up the
rabbit or fowl into small joints, and slightly brown them; put in the fried onions, the garlic,
and stock, and simmer gently till the meat is tender; skim very carefully, and when the meat
is done, rub the curry powder to a smooth batter; add it to the soup with the almonds, which
must be first pounded with a little of the stock. Put in seasoning and lemon-pickle or mango-juice
to taste, and serve boiled rice with it.

Time.--2 hours. Average cost, 1s. 6d. per quart, with stock No. 105.

Seasonable in winter.

Sufficient for 8 persons.

Note.--This soup can also be made with breast of veal, or calf's head. Vegetable Mullagatawny
is made with veal stock, by boiling and pulping chopped vegetable marrow, cucumbers, onions,
and tomatoes, and seasoning with curry powder and cayenne. Nice pieces of meat, good curry
powder, and strong stock, are necessary to make this soup good.

    CORIANDER.--This plant, which largely enters into the
    composition of curry powder with turmeric, originally comes from
    the East; but it has long been cultivated in England, especially
    in Essex, where it is reared for the use of confectioners and
    druggists. In private gardens, it is cultivated for the sake of
    its tender leaves, which are highly aromatic, and are employed
    in soups and salads. Its seeds are used in large quantities for
    the purposes of distillation.

A GOOD MUTTON SOUP.

175. INGREDIENTS.--A neck of mutton about 5 or 6 lbs., 3 carrots, 3 turnips, 2 onions, a large
bunch of sweet herbs, including parsley; salt and pepper to taste; a little sherry, if liked;
3 quarts of water.

Mode.--Lay the ingredients in a covered pan before the fire, and let them remain there the
whole day, stirring occasionally. The next day put the whole into a stewpan, and place it on
a brisk fire. When it commences to boil, take the pan off the fire, and put it on one side
to simmer until the meat is done. When ready for use, take out the meat, dish it up with carrots
and turnips, and send it to table; strain the soup, let it cool, skim off all the fat, season
and thicken it with a tablespoonful, or rather more, of arrowroot; flavour with a little sherry,
simmer for 5 minutes, and serve.

Time.--15 hours. Average cost, including the meat, 1s. 3d. per quart.

Seasonable at any time.

Sufficient for 8 persons.

    THE SHEEP.--This animal formed the principal riches of the
    patriarchs, in the days of old, and, no doubt, multiplied, until
    its species were spread over the greater part of Western Asia;
    but at what period it was introduced to Britain is not known. It
    is now found in almost every part of the globe, although, as a
    domestic animal, it depends almost entirely upon man for its
    support. Its value, however, amply repays him for whatever care
    and kindness he may bestow upon it; for, like the ox, there is
    scarcely a part of it that he cannot convert to some useful
    purpose. The fleece, which serves it for a covering, is
    appropriated by man, to serve the same end to himself, whilst
    its skin is also applied to various purposes in civilized life.
    Its entrails are used as strings for musical instruments, and
    its bones are calcined, and employed as tests in the trade of
    the refiner. Its milk, being thicker than that of the cow,
    yields a greater quantity of butter and cheese, and its flesh is
    among the most wholesome and nutritive that can be eaten.
    Thomson has beautifully described the appearance of the sheep,
    when bound to undergo the operation of being shorn of its wool.

      "Behold, where bound, and of its robe bereft
      By needy man, that all-depending lord,
      How meek, how patient, the mild creature lies!
      What softness in his melancholy face,
      What dumb complaining innocence appears!"

OX-CHEEK SOUP.

176. INGREDIENTS.--An ox-cheek, 2 oz. of butter, 3 or 4 slices of lean ham or bacon, 1 parsnip,
3 carrots, 2 onions, 3 heads of celery, 3 blades of mace, 4 cloves, a faggot of savoury herbs,
1 bay-leaf, a teaspoonful of salt, half that of pepper, 1 head of celery, browning, the crust
of a French roll, 6 quarts of water.

Mode.--Lay the ham in the bottom of the stewpan, with the butter; break the bones of the cheek,
wash it clean, and put it on the ham. Cut the vegetables small, add them to the other ingredients,
and set the whole over a slow fire for 1/4 of an hour. Now put in the water, and simmer gently
till it is reduced to 4 quarts; take out the fleshy part of the cheek, and strain the soup
into a clean stewpan; thicken with flour, put in a head of sliced celery, and simmer till the
celery is tender. If not a good colour, use a little browning. Cut the meat into small square
pieces, pour the soup over, and serve with the crust of a French roll in the tureen. A glass
of sherry much improves this soup.

Time.--3 to 4 hours. Average cost, 8d. per quart.

Seasonable in winter.

Sufficient for 12 persons.

    THE OX.--Of the quadrupedal animals, the flesh of those that
    feed upon herbs is the most wholesome and nutritious for human
    food. In the early ages, the ox was used as a religious
    sacrifice, and, in the eyes of the Egyptians was deemed so
    sacred as to be worthy of exaltation to represent Taurus, one of
    the twelve signs of the zodiac. To this day, the Hindoos
    venerate the cow, whose flesh is forbidden to be eaten, and
    whose fat, supposed to have been employed to grease the
    cartridges of the Indian army, was one of the proximate causes
    of the great Sepoy rebellion of 1857. There are no animals of
    greater use to man than the tribe to which the ox belongs. There
    is hardly a part of them that does not enter into some of the
    arts and purposes of civilized life. Of their horns are made
    combs, knife-handles, boxes, spoons, and drinking-cups. They are
    also made into transparent plates for lanterns; an invention
    ascribed, in England, to King Alfred. Glue is made from their
    gristles, cartilages, and portions of their hides. Their bones
    often form a substitute for ivory; their skins, when calves, are
    manufactured into vellum; their blood is the basis of Prussian
    blue; their sinews furnish fine and strong threads, used by
    saddlers; their hair enters into various manufactures; their
    tallow is made into candles; their flesh is eaten, and the
    utility of the milk and cream of the cow is well known.

OX-TAIL SOUP.

177. INGREDIENTS.--2 ox-tails, 2 slices of ham, 1 oz. of butter, 2 carrots, 2 turnips, 3 onions,
1 leek, 1 head of celery, 1 bunch of savoury herbs, 1 bay-leaf, 12 whole peppercorns, 4 cloves,
a tablespoonful of salt, 2 tablespoonfuls of ketchup, 1/2 glass of port wine, 3 quarts of water.

Mode.--Cut up the tails, separating them at the joints; wash them, and put them in a stewpan,
with the butter. Cut the vegetables in slices, and add them, with the peppercorns and herbs.
Put in 1/2 pint of water, and stir it over a sharp fire till the juices are drawn. Fill up
the stewpan with the water, and, when boiling, add the salt. Skim well, and simmer very gently
for 4 hours, or until the tails are tender. Take them out, skim and strain the soup, thicken
with flour, and flavour with the ketchup and port wine. 3d. per quart.

Seasonable in winter.

Sufficient for 10 persons.

PARTRIDGE SOUP.

178. INGREDIENTS.--2 partridges, 3 slices of lean ham, 2 shred onions, 1 head of celery, 1
large carrot, and 1 turnip cut into any fanciful shapes, 1 small lump of sugar, 2 oz. of butter,
salt and pepper to taste, 2 quarts of stock No. 105, or common, No. 106.

Mode.--Cut the partridges into pieces, and braise them in the butter and ham until quite tender;
then take out the legs, wings, and breast, and set them by. Keep the backs and other trimmings
in the braise, and add the onions and celery; any remains of cold game can be put in, and 3
pints of stock. Simmer slowly for 1 hour, strain it, and skim the fat off as clean as possible;
put in the pieces that were taken out, give it one boil, and skim again to have it quite clear,
and add the sugar and seasoning. Now simmer the cut carrot and turnip in 1 pint of stock; when
quite tender, put them to the partridges, and serve.

Time.--2 hours. Average cost, 2s. or 1s. 6d. per quart.

Seasonable from September to February.

Sufficient for 8 persons.

Note.--The meat of the partridges may be pounded with the crumb of a French roll, and worked
with the soup through a sieve. Serve with stewed celery cut in slices, and put in the tureen.

    THE PARTRIDGE.--This is a timorous bird, being easily taken. It
    became known to the Greeks and Romans, whose tables it helped to
    furnish with food. Formerly, the Red was scarce in Italy, but
    its place was supplied by the White, which, at considerable
    expense, was frequently procured from the Alps. The Athenians
    trained this bird for fighting, and Severus used to lighten the
    cares of royalty by witnessing the spirit of its combats. The
    Greeks esteemed its leg most highly, and rejected the other
    portions as unfashionable to be eaten. The Romans, however,
    ventured a little further, and ate the breast, whilst we
    consider the bird as wholly palatable. It is an inhabitant of
    all the temperate countries of Europe, but, on account of the
    geniality of the climate, it abounds most in the Ukraine.

PHEASANT SOUP.

179. INGREDIENTS.--2 pheasants, 1/4 lb. of butter, 2 slices of ham, 2 large onions sliced,
1/2 head of celery, the crumb of two French rolls, the yolks of 2 eggs boiled hard, salt and
cayenne to taste, a little pounded mace, if liked; 3 quarts of stock No. 105.

Mode.--Cut up the pheasants, flour and braise them in the butter and ham till they are of a
nice brown, but not burnt. Put them in a stewpan, with the onions, celery, and seasoning, and
simmer for 2 hours. Strain the soup; pound the breasts with the crumb of the roll previously
soaked, and the yolks of the eggs; put it to the soup, give one boil, and serve.

Time.--2-1/2 hours. Average cost, 2s. 10d. per quart, or, if made with fragments of gold game, 1s.

Seasonable from October to February.

Sufficient for 10 persons.

Note.--Fragments, pieces and bones of cold game, may be used to great advantage in this soup,
and then 1 pheasant will suffice.

PORTABLE SOUP.

180. INGREDIENTS.--2 knuckles of veal, 3 shins of beef, 1 large faggot of herbs, 2 bay-leaves,
2 heads of celery, 3 onions, 3 carrots, 2 blades of mace, 6 cloves, a teaspoonful of salt,
sufficient water to cover all the ingredients.

Mode.--Take the marrow from the bones; put all the ingredients in a stock-pot, and simmer slowly
for 12 hours, or more, if the meat be not done to rags; strain it off, and put it in a very
cool place; take off all the fat, reduce the liquor in a shallow pan, by setting it over a
sharp fire, but be particular that it does not burn; boil it fast and uncovered for 8 hours,
and keep it stirred. Put it into a deep dish, and set it by for a day. Have ready a stewpan
of boiling water, place the dish in it, and keep it boiling; stir occasionally, and when the
soup is thick and ropy, it is done. Form it into little cakes by pouring a small quantity on
to the bottom of cups or basins; when cold, turn them out on a flannel to dry. Keep them from
the air in tin canisters.

Average cost of this quantity, 16s.

Note.--Soup can be made in 5 minutes with this, by dissolving a small piece, about the size
of a walnut, in a pint of warm water, and simmering for 2 minutes. Vermicelli, macaroni, or
other Italian pastes, may be added.

    THE LAUREL or BAY.--The leaves of this tree frequently enter
    into the recipes of cookery; but they ought not to be used
    without the greatest caution, and not at all unless the cook is
    perfectly aware of their effects. It ought to be known, that
    there are two kinds of bay-trees,--the Classic laurel, whose
    leaves are comparatively harmless, and the Cherry-laurel, which
    is the one whose leaves are employed in cookery. They have a
    kernel-like flavour, and are used in blanc-mange, puddings,
    custards &c.; but when acted upon by water, they develop prussic
    acid, and, therefore, but a small number of the leaves should be
    used at a time.

RABBIT SOUP.

181. INGREDIENTS.--2 large rabbits, or 3 small ones; a faggot of savoury herbs, 1/2 head of
celery, 2 carrots, 1 onion, 1 blade of mace, salt and white pepper to taste, a little pounded
mace, 1/2 pint of cream, the yolks of 2 eggs boiled hard, the crumb of a French roll, nearly
3 quarts of water.

Mode.--Make the soup with the legs and shoulders of the rabbit, and keep the nice pieces for
a dish or entrée. Put them into warm water, and draw the blood; when quite clean, put them
in a stewpan, with a faggot of herbs, and a teacupful, or rather more, of veal stock or water.
Simmer slowly till done through, and add the 3 quarts of water, and boil for an hour. Take
out the rabbet, pick the meat from the bones, covering it up to keep it white; put the bones
back in the liquor, add the vegetables, and simmer for 2 hours; skim and strain, and let it
cool. Now pound the meat in a mortar, with the yolks of the eggs, and the crumb of the roll
previously soaked; rub it through a tammy, and gradually add it to the strained liquor, and
simmer for 15 minutes. Mix arrowroot or rice-flour with the cream (say 2 dessert-spoonfuls),
and stir in the soup; bring it to a boil, and serve. This soup must be very white, and instead
of thickening it with arrowroot or rice-flour, vermicelli or pearl barley can be boiled in
a little stock, and put in 5 minutes before serving.

Time.--Nearly 4 hours.

REGENCY SOUP.

182. Ingredients.--Any bones and remains of any cold game, such as of pheasants, partridges,
&c.; 2 carrots, 2 small onions, 1 head of celery, 1 turnip, 1/4 lb. of pearl barley, the yolks
of 3 eggs boiled hard, 1/4 pint of cream, salt to taste, 2 quarts of stock No. 105, or common
stock, No. 106.

Mode.--Place the bones or remains of game in the stewpan, with the vegetables sliced; pour
over the stock, and simmer for 2 hours; skim off all the fat, and strain it. Wash the barley,
and boil it in 2 or 3 waters before putting it to the soup; finish simmering in the soup, and
when the barley is done, take out half, and pound the other half with the yolks of the eggs.
When you have finished pounding, rub it through a clean tammy, add the cream, and salt if necessary;
give one boil, and serve very hot, putting in the barley that was taken out first.

Seasonable from September to March.

Sufficient for 8 persons.

SOUP A LA REINE.

I.

183. INGREDIENTS.--1 large fowl, 1 oz. of sweet almonds, the crumb of 1 1/2 French roll, 1/2
pint of cream, salt to taste, 1 small lump of sugar, 2 quarts of good white veal stock, No. 107.

Mode.--Boil the fowl gently in the stock till quite tender, which will be in about an hour,
or rather more; take out the fowl, pull the meat from the bones, and put it into a mortar with
the almonds, and pound very fine. When beaten enough, put the meat back in the stock, with
the crumb of the rolls, and let it simmer for an hour; rub it through a tammy, add the sugar,
1/2 pint of cream that has boiled, and, if you prefer, cut the crust of the roll into small
round pieces, and pour the soup over it, when you serve.

Time.--2 hours, or rather more. Average cost, 2s. 7d. per quart.

Seasonable all the year.

Sufficient for 8 persons.

Note.--All white soups should be warmed in a vessel placed in another of boiling water. (See
BAIN MARIE, No. 87.)

II. (Economical.)

184. INGREDIENTS.--Any remains of roast chickens, 1/2 teacupful of rice, salt and pepper to
taste, 1 quart of stock No. 106.

Mode.--Take all the white meat and pound it with the rice, which has been slightly cooked,
but not much. When it is all well pounded, dilute with the stock, and pass through a sieve.
This soup should neither be too clear nor too thick.

Time.--1 hour. Average cost, 4d. per quart.

Seasonable all the year.

Sufficient for 4 persons.

Note.--If stock is not at hand, put the chicken-bones in water, with an onion, carrot, a few
sweet herbs, a blade of mace, pepper and salt, and stew for 3 hours.

STEW SOUP OF SALT MEAT.

185. INGREDIENTS.--Any pieces of salt beef or pork, say 2 lbs.; 4 carrots, 4 parsnips, 4 turnips,
4 potatoes, 1 cabbage, 2 oz. of oatmeal or ground rice, seasoning of salt and pepper, 2 quarts
of water.

Mode.--Cut up the meat small, add the water, and let it simmer for 23/4 hours. Now add the
vegetables, cut in thin small slices; season, and boil for 1 hour. Thicken with the oatmeal,
and serve.

Time.--2 hours. Average cost, 3d. per quart without the meat.

Seasonable in winter.

Sufficient for 6 persons.

Note.--If rice is used instead of oatmeal, put it in with the vegetables.

STEW SOUP.

I.

186. INGREDIENTS.--2 lbs. of beef, 5 onions, 5 turnips, 3/4 lb. of rice, a large bunch of parsley,
a few sweet herbs, pepper and salt, 2 quarts of water.

Mode.--Cut the beef up in small pieces, add the other ingredients, and boil gently for 21/2
hours. Oatmeal or potatoes would be a great improvement.

II.

187. INGREDIENTS.--1/2 lb. of beef, mutton, or pork; 1/2 pint of split peas, 4 turnips, 8 potatoes,
2 onions, 2 oz. of oatmeal or 3 oz. of rice, 2 quarts of water.

Mode.--Cut the meat in small pieces, as also the vegetables, and add them, with the peas, to
the water. Boil gently for 3 hours; thicken with the oatmeal, boil for another 1/4 hour, stirring
all the time, and season with pepper and salt.

188. INGREDIENTS.--2 quarts of medium stock, No. 105, the remains of a cold roast turkey, 2
oz. of rice-flour or arrowroot, salt and pepper to taste, 1 tablespoonful of Harvey's sauce
or mushroom ketchup.

Mode.--Cut up the turkey in small pieces, and put it in the stock; let it simmer slowly until
the bones are quite clean. Take the bones out, and work the soup through a sieve; when cool,
skim well. Mix the rice-flour or arrowroot to a batter with a little of the soup; add it with
the seasoning and sauce, or ketchup.

Seasonable at Christmas.

Sufficient for 8 persons.

Note.--Instead of thickening this soup, vermicelli or macaroni may be served in it.

    THE TURKEY.--The common turkey is a native of North America, and
    was thence introduced to England, in the reign of Henry VIII.
    According to Tusser's "Five Hundred Points of Good Husbandry,"
    about the year 1585 it begun to form a dish at our rural
    Christmas feasts.

      "Beef, mutton, and pork, shred pies of the best,
      Pig, veal, goose, and capon, and turkey well dress'd,
      Cheese, apples, and nuts, jolly carols to hear,
      As then in the country is counted good cheer."

    It is one of the most difficult birds to rear, of any that we
    have; yet, in its wild state, is found in great abundance in the
    forests of Canada, where, it might have been imagined that the
    severity of the climate would be unfavourable to its ever
    becoming plentiful. They are very fond of the seeds of nettles,
    and the seeds of the foxglove poison them.

TURTLE SOUP (founded on M. Ude's Recipe).

189. INGREDIENTS.--A turtle, 6 slices of ham, 2 knuckles of veal, 1 large bunch of sweet herbs,
3 bay-leaves, parsley, green onions, 1 onion, 6 cloves, 4 blades of mace, 1/4 lb. of fresh
butter, 1 bottle of Madeira, 1 lump of sugar. For the Quenelles à Tortue, 1 lb. of veal, 1
lb. of bread crumbs, milk, 7 eggs, cayenne, salt, spices, chopped parsley, the juice of 2 lemons.

Mode.--To make this soup with less difficulty, cut off the head of the turtle the preceding
day. In the morning open the turtle by leaning heavily with a knife on the shell of the animal's
back, whilst you cut this off all round. Turn it upright on its end, that all the water, &c.
may run out, when the flesh should be cut off along the spine, with the knife sloping towards
the bones, for fear of touching the gall, which sometimes might escape the eye. When all the
flesh about the members is obtained, wash these clean, and let them drain. Have ready, on the
fire, a large vessel full of boiling water, into which put the shells; and when you perceive
that they come easily off, take them out of the water, and prick them all, with those of the
back, belly, fins, head, &c. Boil the back and belly till the bones can be taken off, without,
however, allowing the softer parts to be sufficiently done, as they will be boiled again in
the soup. When these latter come off easily, lay them on earthen dishes singly, for fear they
should stick together, and put them to cool. Keep the liquor in which you have blanched the
softer parts, and let the bones stew thoroughly in it, as this liquor must be used to moisten
all the sauces.

All the flesh of the interior parts, the four legs and head, must be drawn down in the following
manner:--Lay the slices of ham on the bottom of a very large stewpan, over them the knuckles
of veal, according to the size of the turtle; then the inside flesh of the turtle, and over
the whole the members. Now moisten with the water in which you are boiling the shell, and draw
it down thoroughly. It may now be ascertained if it be thoroughly done by thrusting a knife
into the fleshy part of the meat. If no blood appears, it is time to moisten it again with
the liquor in which the bones, &c. have been boiling. Put in a large bunch of all such sweet
herbs as are used in the cooking of a turtle,--sweet basil, sweet marjoram, lemon thyme, winter
savory, 2 or 3 bay-leaves, common thyme, a handful of parsley and green onions, and a large
onion stuck with 6 cloves. Let the whole be thoroughly done. With respect to the members, probe
them, to see whether they are done, and if so, drain and send them to the larder, as they are
to make their appearance only when the soup is absolutely completed. When the flesh is also
completely done, strain it through a silk sieve, and make a very thin white roux; for turtle
soup must not be much thickened. When the flour is sufficiently done on a slow fire, and has
a good colour, moisten it with the liquor, keeping it over the fire till it boils. Ascertain
that the sauce is neither too thick nor too thin; then draw the stewpan on the side of the
stove, to skim off the white scum, and all the fat and oil that rise to the surface of the
sauce. By this time all the softer parts will be sufficiently cold; when they must be cut to
about the size of one or two inches square, and thrown into the soup, which must now be left
to simmer gently. When done, skim off all the fat and froth. Put these in a stewpan, with about
1/4 lb. of fresh butter, and let it simmer on a slow fire till quite melted, when pour in 1
bottle of good Madeira, adding a small bit of sugar, and let it boil gently for 1 hour. When
done, rub it through a tammy, and add it to the soup. Let this boil, till no white scum rises;
then take with a skimmer all the bits of turtle out of the sauce, and put them in a clean stewpan:
when you have all out, pour the soup over the bits of turtle, through a tammy, and proceed
as follows:--

QUENELLES À TORTUE.--Make some quenelles à tortue, which being substitutes for eggs, do not
require to be very delicate. Take out the fleshy part of a leg of veal, about 1 lb., scrape
off all the meat, without leaving any sinews or fat, and soak in milk about the same quantity
of crumbs of bread. When the bread is well soaked, squeeze it, and put it into a mortar, with
the veal, a small quantity of calf's udder, a little butter, the yolks of 4 eggs, boiled hard,
a little cayenne pepper, salt, and spices, and pound the whole very fine; then thicken the
mixture with 2 whole eggs, and the yolk of another. Next try this farce or stuffing in boiling-hot
water, to ascertain its consistency: if it is too thin, add the yolk of an egg. When the farce
is perfected, take half of it, and put into it some chopped parsley. Let the whole cool, in
order to roll it of the size of the yolk of an egg; poach it in salt and boiling water, and
when very hard, drain on a sieve, and put it into the turtle. Before you send up, squeeze the
juice of 2 or 3 lemons, with a little cayenne pepper, and pour that into the soup. THE FINS
may be served as a plat d'entrée with a little turtle sauce; if not, on the following day you
may warm the turtle au bain marie, and serve the members entire, with a matelote sauce, garnished
with mushrooms, cocks' combs, quenelles, &c. When either lemon-juice or cayenne pepper has
been introduced, no boiling must take place.

Note.--It is necessary to observe, that the turtle prepared a day before it is used, is generally
preferable, the flavour being more uniform. Be particular, when you dress a very large turtle,
to preserve the green fat (be cautious not to study a very brown colour,--the natural green
of the fish is preferred by every epicure and true connoisseur) in a separate stewpan, and
likewise when the turtle is entirely done, to have as many tureens as you mean to serve each
time. You cannot put the whole in a large vessel, for many reasons: first, it will be long
in cooling; secondly, when you take some out, it will break all the rest into rags. If you
warm in a bain marie, the turtle will always retain the same taste; but if you boil it often,
it becomes strong, and loses the delicacy of its flavour.

THE COST OF TURTLE SOUP.--This is the most expensive soup brought to table. It is sold by the
quart,--one guinea being the standard price for that quantity. The price of live turtle ranges
from 8d. to 2s. per lb., according to supply and demand. When live turtle is dear, many cooks
use the tinned turtle, which is killed when caught, and preserved by being put in hermetically-sealed
canisters, and so sent over to England. The cost of a tin, containing 2 quarts, or 4 lbs.,
is about £2, and for a small one, containing the green fat, 7s. 6d. From these about 6 quarts
of good soup may be made.

    THE GREEN TURTLE.--This reptile is found in large numbers on the
    coasts of all the islands and continents within the tropics, in
    both the old and new worlds. Their length is often five feet and
    upwards, and they range in weight from 50 to 500 or 600 lbs. As
    turtles find a constant supply of food on the coasts which they
    frequent, they are not of a quarrelsome disposition, as the
    submarine meadows in which they pasture, yield plenty for them
    all. Like other species of amphibia, too, they have the power of
    living many months without food; so that they live harmlessly
    and peaceably together, notwithstanding that they seem to have
    no common bond of association, but merely assemble in the same
    places as if entirely by accident. England is mostly supplied
    with them from the West Indies, whence they are brought alive
    and in tolerable health. The green turtle is highly prized on
    account of the delicious quality of its flesh, the fat of the
    upper and lower shields of the animal being esteemed the richest
    and most delicate parts. The soup, however, is apt to disagree
    with weak stomachs. As an article of luxury, the turtle has only
    come into fashion within the last 100 years, and some hundreds
    of tureens of turtle soup are served annually at the lord
    mayor's dinner in Guildhall.

A GOOD FAMILY SOUP.

190. INGREDIENTS.--Remains of a cold tongue, 2 lbs. of shin of beef, any cold pieces of meat
or beef-bones, 2 turnips, 2 carrots, 2 onions, 1 parsnip, 1 head of celery, 4 quarts of water,
1/2 teacupful of rice; salt and pepper to taste.

Mode.--Put all the ingredients in a stewpan, and simmer gently for 4 hours, or until all the
goodness is drawn from the meat. Strain off the soup, and let it stand to get cold. The kernels
and soft parts of the tongue must be saved. When the soup is wanted for use, skim off all the
fat, put in the kernels and soft parts of the tongue, slice in a small quantity of fresh carrot,
turnip, and onion; stew till the vegetables are tender, and serve with toasted bread.

Time.--5 hours. Average cost,3d. per quart.

Seasonable at any time.

Sufficient for 12 persons.

HODGE-PODGE.

191. INGREDIENTS.--2 lbs. of shin of beef, 3 quarts of water, 1 pint of table-beer, 2 onions,
2 carrots, 2 turnips, 1 head of celery; pepper and salt to taste; thickening of butter and flour.

Mode.--Put the meat, beer, and water in a stewpan; simmer for a few minutes, and skim carefully.
Add the vegetables and seasoning; stew gently till the meat is tender. Thicken with the butter
and flour, and serve with turnips and carrots, or spinach and celery.

    TABLE BEER.--This is nothing more than a weak ale, and is not
    made so much with a view to strength, as to transparency of
    colour and an agreeable bitterness of taste. It is, or ought to
    be, manufactured by the London professional brewers, from the
    best pale malt, or amber and malt. Six barrels are usually drawn
    from one quarter of malt, with which are mixed 4 or 5 lbs. of
    hops. As a beverage, it is agreeable when fresh; but it is not
    adapted to keep long.

FISH SOUPS.

FISH STOCK.

192. INGREDIENTS.--2 lbs. of beef or veal (these can be omitted), any kind of white fish trimmings,
of fish which are to be dressed for table, 2 onions, the rind of 1/2 a lemon, a bunch of sweet
herbs, 2 carrots, 2 quarts of water.

Mode.--Cut up the fish, and put it, with the other ingredients, into the water. Simmer for
2 hours; skim the liquor carefully, and strain it. When a richer stock is wanted, fry the vegetables
and fish before adding the water.

Time.--2 hours. Average cost, with meat, 10d. per quart; without, 3d.

Note.--Do not make fish stock long before it is wanted, as it soon turns sour.

CRAYFISH SOUP.

193. INGREDIENTS.--50 crayfish, 1/4 lb. of butter, 6 anchovies, the crumb of 1 French roll,
a little lobster-spawn, seasoning to taste, 2 quarts of medium stock, No. 105, or fish stock,
No. 192.

Mode.--Shell the crayfish, and put the fish between two plates until they are wanted; pound
the shells in a mortar, with the butter and anchovies; when well beaten, add a pint of stock,
and simmer for 3/4 of an hour. Strain it through a hair sieve, put the remainder of the stock
to it, with the crumb of the rolls; give it one boil, and rub it through a tammy, with the
lobster-spawn. Put in the fish, but do not let the soup boil, after it has been rubbed through
the tammy. If necessary, add seasoning.

Time.--1-1/2 hour. Average cost, 2s. 3d. or 1s. 9d. per quart.

Seasonable from January to July.

Sufficient for 8 persons.

    THE CRAYFISH.--This is one of those fishes that were highly
    esteemed by the ancients. The Greeks preferred it when brought
    from Alexandria, and the Romans ate it boiled with cumin, and
    seasoned with pepper and other condiments. A recipe tells us,
    that crayfish can be preserved several days in baskets with
    fresh grass, such as the nettle, or in a bucket with about
    three-eighths of an inch of water. More water would kill them,
    because the large quantity of air they require necessitates the
    water in which they are kept, to be continually renewed.

EEL SOUP.

194. INGREDIENTS.--3 lbs. of eels, 1 onion, 2 oz. of butter, 3 blades of mace, 1 bunch of sweet
herbs, 1/4 oz. of peppercorns, salt to taste, 2 tablespoonfuls of flour, 1/4 pint of cream,
2 quarts of water.

Mode.--Wash the eels, cut them into thin slices, and put them in the stewpan with the butter;
let them simmer for a few minutes, then pour the water to them, and add the onion, cut in thin
slices, the herbs, mace, and seasoning. Simmer till the eels are tender, but do not break the
fish. Take them out carefully, mix the flour smoothly to a batter with the cream, bring it
to a boil, pour over the eels, and serve.

Time.--1 hour, or rather more. Average cost, 10d. per quart.

Seasonable from June to March.

Sufficient for 8 persons.

Note.--This soup may be flavoured differently by omitting the cream, and adding a little ketchup
or Harvey's sauce.

LOBSTER SOUP.

195. INGREDIENTS.--3 large lobsters, or 6 small ones; the crumb of a French roll, 2 anchovies,
1 onion, 1 small bunch of sweet herbs, 1 strip of lemon-peel, 2 oz. of butter, a little nutmeg,
1 teaspoonful of flour, 1 pint of cream, 1 pint of milk; forcemeat balls, mace, salt and pepper
to taste, bread crumbs, 1 egg, 2 quarts of water.

Mode.--Pick the meat from the lobsters, and beat the fins, chine, and small claws in a mortar,
previously taking away the brown fin and the bag in the head. Put it in a stewpan, with the
crumb of the roll, anchovies, onions, herbs, lemon-peel, and the water; simmer gently till
all the goodness is extracted, and strain it off. Pound the spawn in a mortar, with the butter,
nutmeg, and flour, and mix with it the cream and milk. Give one boil up, at the same time adding
the tails cut in pieces. Make the forcemeat balls with the remainder of the lobster, seasoned
with mace, pepper, and salt, adding a little flour, and a few bread crumbs; moisten them with
the egg, heat them in the soup, and serve.

Time.--2 hours, or rather more. Average cost, 3s 6d per quart.

Seasonable from April to October.

Sufficient for 8 persons.

OYSTER SOUP.

I.

196. INGREDIENTS.--6 dozen of oysters, 2 quarts of white stock, 1/2 pint of cream, 2 oz. of
butter, 1-1/2 oz. of flour; salt, cayenne, and mace to taste.

Mode.--Scald the oysters in their own liquor; take them out, beard them, and put them in a
tureen. Take a pint of the stock, put in the beards and the liquor, which must be carefully
strained, and simmer for 1/2 an hour. Take it off the fire, strain it again, and add the remainder
of the stock with the seasoning and mace. Bring it to a boil, add the thickening of butter
and flour, simmer for 5 minutes, stir in the boiling cream, pour it over the oysters, and serve.

Time.--1 hour. Average cost, 2s. 8d. per quart.

Seasonable from September to April.

Sufficient for 8 persons.

Note.--This soup can be made less rich by using milk instead of cream, and thickening with
arrowroot instead of butter and flour.

II.

197. INGREDIENTS.--2 quarts of good mutton broth, 6 dozen oysters, 2 oz. butter, 1 oz. of flour.

Mode.--Beard the oysters, and scald them in their own liquor; then add it, well strained, to
the broth; thicken with the butter and flour, and simmer for 1/4 of an hour. Put in the oysters,
stir well, but do not let it boil, and serve very hot.

Time.--3/4 hour. Average cost, 2s. per quart.

Seasonable from September to April.

Sufficient for 8 persons.

    SEASON OF OYSTERS.--From April and May to the end of July,
    oysters are said to be sick; but by the end of August they
    become healthy, having recovered from the effects of spawning.
    When they are not in season, the males have a black, and the
    females a milky substance in the gill. From some lines of
    Oppian, it would appear that the ancients were ignorant that the
    oyster is generally found adhering to rocks. The starfish is one
    of the most deadly enemies of these bivalves. The poet says:--

      The prickly star creeps on with full deceit
      To force the oyster from his close retreat.
      When gaping lids their widen'd void display,
      The watchful star thrusts in a pointed ray,
      Of all its treasures spoils the rifled case,
      And empty shells the sandy hillock grace.

PRAWN SOUP.

198. INGREDIENTS.--2 quarts of fish stock or water, 2 pints of prawns, the crumbs of a French
roll, anchovy sauce or mushroom ketchup to taste, 1 blade of mace, 1 pint of vinegar, a little
lemon-juice.

Mode.--Pick out the tails of the prawns, put the bodies in a stewpan with 1 blade of mace,
1/2 pint of vinegar, and the same quantity of water; stew them for 1/4 hour, and strain off
the liquor. Put the fish stock or water into a stewpan; add the strained liquor, pound the
prawns with the crumb of a roll moistened with a little of the soup, rub them through a tammy,
and mix them by degrees with the soup; add ketchup or anchovy sauce to taste, with a little
lemon-juice. When it is well cooked, put in a few picked prawns; let them get thoroughly hot,
and serve. If not thick enough, put in a little butter and flour.

Time.--hour. Average cost, 1s. 1d. per quart, if made with water.

Seasonable at any time. Sufficient for 8 persons.

Note.--This can be thickened with tomatoes, and vermicelli served in it, which makes it a very
tasteful soup.

    THE PRAWN.--This little fish bears a striking resemblance to the
    shrimp, but is neither so common nor so small. It is to be found
    on most of the sandy shores of Europe. The Isle of Wight is
    famous for shrimps, where they are potted; but both the prawns
    and the shrimps vended in London, are too much salted for the
    excellence of their natural flavour to be preserved. They are
    extremely lively little animals, as seen in their native
    retreats.

FISH.

CHAPTER VII.

THE NATURAL HISTORY OF FISHES.

199. IN NATURAL HISTORY, FISHES form the fourth class in the system of Linnaeus, and are described
as having long under-jaws, eggs without white, organs of sense, fins for supporters, bodies
covered with concave scales, gills to supply the place of lungs for respiration, and water
for the natural element of their existence. Had mankind no other knowledge of animals than
of such as inhabit the land and breathe their own atmosphere, they would listen with incredulous
wonder, if told that there were other kinds of beings which existed only in the waters, and
which would die almost as soon as they were taken from them. However strongly these facts might
be attested, they would hardly believe them, without the operation of their own senses, as
they would recollect the effect produced on their own bodies when immersed in water, and the
impossibility of their sustaining life in it for any lengthened period of time. Experience,
however, has taught them, that the "great deep" is crowded with inhabitants of various sizes,
and of vastly different constructions, with modes of life entirely distinct from those which
belong to the animals of the land, and with peculiarities of design, equally wonderful with
those of any other works which have come from the hand of the Creator. The history of these
races, however, must remain for ever, more or less, in a state of darkness, since the depths
in which they live, are beyond the power of human exploration, and since the illimitable expansion
of their domain places them almost entirely out of the reach of human accessibility.

200. IN STUDYING THE CONFORMATION OF FISHES, we naturally conclude that they are, in every
respect, well adapted to the element in which they have their existence. Their shape has a
striking resemblance to the lower part of a ship; and there is no doubt that the form of the
fish originally suggested the form of the ship. The body is in general slender, gradually diminishing
towards each of its extremities, and flattened on each of its sides. This is precisely the
form of the lower part of the hull of a ship; and it enables both the animal and the vessel,
with comparative ease, to penetrate and divide the resisting medium for which they have been
adapted. The velocity of a ship, however, in sailing before the wind, is by no means to be
compared to that of a fish. It is well known that the largest fishes will, with the greatest
ease, overtake a ship in full sail, play round it without effort, and shoot ahead of it at
pleasure. This arises from their great flexibility, which, to compete with mocks the labours
of art, and enables them to migrate thousands of miles in a season, without the slightest indications
of languor or fatigue.

201. THE PRINCIPAL INSTRUMENTS EMPLOYED BY FISHES to accelerate their motion, are their air-bladder,
fins, and tail. By means of the air-bladder they enlarge or diminish the specific gravity of
their bodies. When they wish to sink, they compress the muscles of the abdomen, and eject the
air contained in it; by which, their weight, compared with that of the water, is increased,
and they consequently descend. On the other hand, when they wish to rise, they relax the compression
of the abdominal muscles, when the air-bladder fills and distends, and the body immediately
ascends to the surface. How simply, yet how wonderfully, has the Supreme Being adapted certain
means to the attainment of certain ends! Those fishes which are destitute of the air-bladder
are heavy in the water, and have no great "alacrity" in rising. The larger proportion of them
remain at the bottom, unless they are so formed as to be able to strike their native element
downwards with sufficient force to enable them to ascend. When the air-bladder of a fish is
burst, its power of ascending to the surface has for ever passed away. From a knowledge of
this fact, the fishermen of cod are enabled to preserve them alive for a considerable time
in their well-boats. The means they adopt to accomplish this, is to perforate the sound, or
air-bladder, with a needle, which disengages the air, when the fishes immediately descend to
the bottom of the well, into which they are thrown. Without this operation, it would be impossible
to keep the cod under water whilst they had life. In swimming, the fins enable fishes to preserve
their upright position, especially those of the belly, which act like two feet. Without those,
they would swim with their bellies upward, as it is in their backs that the centre of gravity
lies. In ascending and descending, these are likewise of great assistance, as they contract
and expand accordingly. The tail is an instrument of great muscular force, and largely assists
the fish in all its motions. In some instances it acts like the rudder of a ship, and enables
it to turn sideways; and when moved from side to side with a quick vibratory motion, fishes
are made, in the same manner as the "screw" propeller makes a steamship, to dart forward with
a celerity proportioned to the muscular force with which it is employed.

202. THE BODIES OF FISHES are mostly covered with a kind of horny scales; but some are almost
entirely without them, or have them so minute as to be almost invisible; as is the case with
the eel. The object of these is to preserve them from injury by the pressure of the water,
or the sudden contact with pebbles, rocks, or sea-weeds. Others, again, are enveloped in a
fatty, oleaginous substance, also intended as a defence against the friction of the water;
and those in which the scales are small, are supplied with a larger quantity of slimy matter.

203. THE RESPIRATION OF FISHES is effected by means of those comb-like organs which are placed
on each side of the neck, and which are called gills. It is curious to watch the process of
breathing as it is performed by the finny tribes. It seems to be so continuous, that it might
almost pass for an illustration of the vexed problem which conceals the secret of perpetual
motion. In performing it, they fill their mouths with water, which they drive backwards with
a force so great as to open the large flap, to allow it to escape behind. In this operation
all, or a great portion, of the air contained in the water, is left among the feather-like
processes of the gills, and is carried into the body, there to perform its part in the animal
economy. In proof of this, it has been ascertained that, if the water in which fishes are put,
is, by any means, denuded of its air, they immediately seek the surface, and begin to gasp
for it. Hence, distilled water is to them what a vacuum made by an air-pump, is to most other
animals. For this reason, when a fishpond, or other aqueous receptacle in which fishes are
kept, is entirely frozen over, it is necessary to make holes in the ice, not so especially
for the purpose of feeding them, as for that of giving them air to breathe.

204. THE POSITIONS OF THE TEETH OF FISHES are well calculated to excite our amazement; for,
in some cases, these are situated in the jaws, sometimes on the tongue or palate, and sometimes
even in the throat. They are in general sharp-pointed and immovable; but in the carp they are
obtuse, and in the pike so easily moved as to seem to have no deeper hold than such as the
mere skin can afford. In the herring, the tongue is set with teeth, to enable it the better,
it is supposed, to retain its food.

205. ALTHOUGH NATURALISTS HAVE DIVIDED FISHES into two great tribes, the osseous and the cartilaginous,
yet the distinction is not very precise; for the first have a great deal of cartilage, and
the second, at any rate, a portion of calcareous matter in their bones. It may, therefore,
be said that the bones of fishes form a kind of intermediate substance between true bones and
cartilages. The backbone extends through the whole length of the body, and consists of vertebrae,
strong and thick towards the head, but weaker and more slender as it approaches the tail. Each
species has a determinate number of vertebrae, which are increased in size in proportion with
the body. The ribs are attached to the processes of the vertebrae, and inclose the breast and
abdomen. Some kinds, as the rays, have no ribs; whilst others, as the sturgeon and eel, have
very short ones. Between the pointed processes of the vertebrae are situated the bones which
support the dorsal (back) and the anal (below the tail) fins, which are connected with the
processes by a ligament. At the breast are the sternum or breastbone, clavicles or collar-bones,
and the scapulae or shoulder-blades, on which the pectoral or breast fins are placed. The bones
which support the ventral or belly fins are called the ossa pelvis. Besides these principal
bones, there are often other smaller ones, placed between the muscles to assist their motion.

206. SOME OF THE ORGANS OF SENSE IN FISHES are supposed to be possessed by them in a high degree,
and others much more imperfectly. Of the latter kind are the senses of touch and taste, which
are believed to be very slightly developed. On the other hand, those of hearing, seeing, and
smelling, are ascertained to be acute, but the first in a lesser degree than both the second
and third. Their possession of an auditory organ was long doubted, and even denied by some
physiologists; but it has been found placed on the sides of the skull, or in the cavity which
contains the brain. It occupies a position entirely distinct and detached from the skull, and,
in this respect, differs in the local disposition of the same sense in birds and quadrupeds.
In some fishes, as in those of the ray kind, the organ is wholly encompassed by those parts
which contain the cavity of the skull; whilst in the cod and salmon kind it is in the part
within the skull. Its structure is, in every way, much more simple than that of the same sense
in those animals which live entirely in the air; but there is no doubt that they have the adaptation
suitable to their condition. In some genera, as in the rays, the external orifice or ear is
very small, and is placed in the upper surface of the head; whilst in others there is no visible
external orifice whatever. However perfect the sight of fishes may be, experience has shown
that this sense is of much less use to them than that of smelling, in searching for their food.
The optic nerves in fishes have this peculiarity,--that they are not confounded with one another
in their middle progress between their origin and their orbit. The one passes over the other
without any communication; so that the nerve which comes from the left side of the brain goes
distinctly to the right eye, and that which comes from the right goes distinctly to the left.
In the greater part of them, the eye is covered with the same transparent skin that covers
the rest of the head. The object of this arrangement, perhaps, is to defend it from the action
of the water, as there are no eyelids. The globe in front is somewhat depressed, and is furnished
behind with a muscle, which serves to lengthen or flatten it, according to the necessities
of the animal. The crystalline humour, which in quadrupeds is flattened, is, in fishes, nearly
globular. The organ of smelling in fishes is large, and is endued, at its entry, with a dilating
and contracting power, which is employed as the wants of the animal may require. It is mostly
by the acuteness of their smell that fishes are enabled to discover their food; for their tongue
is not designed for nice sensation, being of too firm a cartilaginous substance for this purpose.

207. WITH RESPECT TO THE FOOD OF FISHES, this is almost universally found in their own element.
They are mostly carnivorous, though they seize upon almost anything that comes in their way:
they even devour their own offspring, and manifest a particular predilection for all living
creatures. Those, to which Nature has meted out mouths of the greatest capacity, would seem
to pursue everything with life, and frequently engage in fierce conflicts with their prey.
The animal with the largest mouth is usually the victor; and he has no sooner conquered his
foe than he devours him. Innumerable shoals of one species pursue those of another, with a
ferocity which draws them from the pole to the equator, through all the varying temperatures
and depths of their boundless domain. In these pursuits a scene of universal violence is the
result; and many species must have become extinct, had not Nature accurately proportioned the
means of escape, the production, and the numbers, to the extent and variety of the danger to
which they are exposed. Hence the smaller species are not only more numerous, but more productive
than the larger; whilst their instinct leads them in search of food and safety near the shores,
where, from the shallowness of the waters, many of their foes are unable to follow them.

208. THE FECUNDITY OF FISHES has been the wonder of every natural philosopher whose attention
has been attracted to the subject. They are in general oviparous, or egg-producing; but there
are a few, such as the eel and the blenny, which are viviparous, or produce their young alive.
The males have the milt and the females the roe; but some individuals, as the sturgeon and
the cod tribes, are said to contain both. The greater number deposit their spawn in the sand
or gravel; but some of those which dwell in the depths of the ocean attach their eggs to sea-weeds.
In every instance, however, their fruitfulness far surpasses that of any other race of animals.
According to Lewenhoeck, the cod annually spawns upwards of nine millions of eggs, contained
in a single roe. The flounder produces one million; the mackerel above five hundred thousand;
a herring of a moderate size at least ten thousand; a carp fourteen inches in length, according
to Petit, contained two hundred and sixty-two thousand two hundred and twenty-four; a perch
deposited three hundred and eighty thousand six hundred and forty; and a female sturgeon seven
millions six hundred and fifty-three thousand two hundred. The viviparous species are by no
means so prolific; yet the blenny brings forth two or three hundred at a time, which commence
sporting together round their parent the moment they have come into existence.

209. IN REFERENCE TO THE LONGEVITY OF FISHES, it is affirmed to surpass that of all other created
beings; and it is supposed they are, to a great extent, exempted from the diseases to which
the flesh of other animals is heir. In place of suffering from the rigidity of age, which is
the cause of the natural decay of those that "live and move and have their being" on the land,
their bodies continue to grow with each succeeding supply of food, and the conduits of life
to perform their functions unimpaired. The age of fishes has not been properly ascertained,
although it is believed that the most minute of the species has a longer lease of life than
man. The mode in which they die has been noted by the Rev. Mr. White, the eminent naturalist
of Selbourne. As soon as the fish sickens, the head sinks lower and lower, till the animal,
as it were, stands upon it. After this, as it becomes weaker, it loses its poise, till the
tail turns over, when it comes to the surface, and floats with its belly upwards. The reason
for its floating in this manner is on account of the body being no longer balanced by the fins
of the belly, and the broad muscular back preponderating, by its own gravity, over the belly,
from this latter being a cavity, and consequently lighter.

210. FISHES ARE EITHER SOLITARY OR GREGARIOUS, and some of them migrate to great distances,
and into certain rivers, to deposit their spawn. Of sea-fishes, the cod, herring, mackerel,
and many others, assemble in immense shoals, and migrate through different tracts of the ocean;
but, whether considered in their solitary or gregarious capacity, they are alike wonderful
to all who look through Nature up to Nature's God, and consider, with due humility, yet exalted
admiration, the sublime variety, beauty, power, and grandeur of His productions, as manifested
in the Creation.

FISH AS AN ARTICLE OF HUMAN FOOD.

211. AS THE NUTRITIVE PROPERTIES OF FISH are deemed inferior to those of what is called butchers'
meat, it would appear, from all we can learn, that, in all ages, it has held only a secondary
place in the estimation of those who have considered the science of gastronomy as a large element
in the happiness of mankind. Among the Jews of old it was very little used, although it seems
not to have been entirely interdicted, as Moses prohibited only the use of such as had neither
scales nor fins. The Egyptians, however, made fish an article of diet, notwithstanding that
it was rejected by their priests. Egypt, however, is not a country favourable to the production
of fish, although we read of the people, when hungry, eating it raw; of epicures among them
having dried it in the sun; and of its being salted and preserved, to serve as a repast on
days of great solemnity.

    The modern Egyptians are, in general, extremely temperate in
    regard to food. Even the richest among them take little pride,
    and, perhaps, experience as little delight, in the luxuries of
    the table. Their dishes mostly consist of pilaus, soups, and
    stews, prepared principally of onions, cucumbers, and other cold
    vegetables, mixed with a little meat cut into small pieces. On
    special occasions, however, a whole sheep is placed on the
    festive board; but during several of the hottest months of the
    year, the richest restrict themselves entirely to a vegetable
    diet. The poor are contented with a little oil or sour milk, in
    which they may dip their bread.

212. PASSING FROM AFRICA TO EUROPE, we come amongst a people who have, almost from time immemorial,
occupied a high place in the estimation of every civilized country; yet the Greeks, in their
earlier ages, made very little use of fish as an article of diet. In the eyes of the heroes
of Homer it had little favour; for Menelaus complained that "hunger pressed their digestive
organs," and they had been obliged to live upon fish. Subsequently, however, fish became one
of the principal articles of diet amongst the Hellenes; and both Aristophanes and Athenaeus
allude to it, and even satirize their countrymen for their excessive partiality to the turbot
and mullet.

    So infatuated were many of the Greek gastronomes with the love
    of fish, that some of them would have preferred death from
    indigestion to the relinquishment of the precious dainties with
    which a few of the species supplied them. Philoxenes of Cythera
    was one of these. On being informed by his physician that he was
    going to die of indigestion, on account of the quantity he was
    consuming of a delicious fish, "Be it so," he calmly observed;
    "but before I die, let me finish the remainder."

213. THE GEOGRAPHICAL SITUATION OF GREECE was highly favourable for the development of a taste
for the piscatory tribes; and the skill of the Greek cooks was so great, that they could impart
every variety of relish to the dish they were called upon to prepare. Athenaeus has transmitted
to posterity some very important precepts upon their ingenuity in seasoning with salt, oil,
and aromatics.

    At the present day the food of the Greeks, through the combined
    influence of poverty and the long fasts which their religion
    imposes upon them, is, to a large extent, composed of fish,
    accompanied with vegetables and fruit. Caviare, prepared from
    the roes of sturgeons, is the national ragout, which, like all
    other fish dishes, they season with aromatic herbs. Snails
    dressed in garlic are also a favourite dish.

214. AS THE ROMANS, in a great measure, took their taste in the fine arts from the Greeks,
so did they, in some measure, their piscine appetites. The eel-pout and the lotas's liver were
the favourite fish dishes of the Roman epicures; whilst the red mullet was esteemed as one
of the most delicate fishes that could be brought to the table.

    With all the elegance, taste, and refinement of Roman luxury, it
    was sometimes promoted or accompanied by acts of great
    barbarity. In proof of this, the mention of the red mullet
    suggests the mode in which it was sometimes treated for the, to
    us, horrible entertainment of the fashionable in Roman
    circles. It may be premised, that as England has, Rome, in her
    palmy days, had, her fops, who had, no doubt, through the medium
    of their cooks, discovered that when the scales of the red
    mullet were removed, the flesh presented a fine pink-colour.
    Having discovered this, it was further observed that at the
    death of the animal, this colour passed through a succession of
    beautiful shades, and, in order that these might be witnessed
    and enjoyed in their fullest perfection, the poor mullet was
    served alive in a glass vessel.

215. THE LOVE OF FISH among the ancient Romans rose to a real mania. Apicius offered a prize
to any one who could invent a new brine compounded of the liver of red mullets; and Lucullus
had a canal cut through a mountain, in the neighbourhood of Naples, that fish might be the
more easily transported to the gardens of his villa. Hortensius, the orator, wept over the
death of a turbot which he had fed with his own hands; and the daughter of Druses adorned one
that she had, with rings of gold. These were, surely, instances of misplaced affection; but
there is no accounting for tastes. It was but the other day that we read in the "Times" of
a wealthy living English hermit, who delights in the companionship of rats!

    The modern Romans are merged in the general name of Italians,
    who, with the exception of macaroni, have no specially
    characteristic article of food.

