"More so than is supposed--more so than could be believed.  I know that the possessed Abbess
is his niece, and that he is provided with an order in council directing him to judge, without
being deterred by any appeals lodged in Parliament, the Cardinal having prohibited the latter
from taking cognizance of the matter of Urbain Grandier."

"And what are his offences?"  asked the young man, already deeply interested.

"Those of a strong mind and of a great genius, an inflexible will which has irritated power
against him, and a profound passion which has driven his heart and him to commit the only mortal
sin with which I believe he can be reproached; and it was only by violating the sanctity of
his private papers, which they tore from Jeanne d'Estievre, his mother, an old woman of eighty,
that they discovered his love for the beautiful Madeleine de Brou.  This girl had refused to
marry, and wished to take the veil.  May that veil have concealed from her the spectacle of
this day!  The eloquence of Grandier and his angelic beauty drove the women half mad; they
came miles and miles to hear him.  I have seen them swoon during his sermons; they declared
him an angel, and touched his garment and kissed his hands when he descended from the pulpit.
It is certain that, unless it be his beauty, nothing could equal the sublimity of his discourses,
ever full of inspiration.  The pure honey of the gospel combined on his lips with the flashing
flame of the prophecies; and one recognized in the sound of his voice a heart overflowing with
holy pity for the evils to which mankind are subject, and filled with tears, ready to flow for us."

The good priest paused, for his own voice and eyes were filled with tears; his round and naturally
Joyous face was more touching than a graver one under the same circumstances, for it seemed
as if it bade defiance to sadness.  Cinq-Mars, even more moved, pressed his hand without speaking,
fearful of interrupting him.  The Abbe took out a red handkerchief, wiped his eyes, and continued:

"This is the second attack upon Urbain by his combined enemies.  He had already been accused
of bewitching the nuns; but, examined by holy prelates, by enlightened magistrates, and learned
physicians, he was immediately acquitted, and the judges indignantly imposed silence upon these
devils in human form.  The good and pious Archbishop of Bordeaux, who had himself chosen the
examiners of these pretended exorcists, drove the prophets away and shut up their hell.  But,
humiliated by the publicity of the result, annoyed at seeing Grandier kindly received by our
good King when he threw himself at his feet at Paris, they saw that if he triumphed they were
lost, and would be universally regarded as impostors.  Already the convent of the Ursulines
was looked upon only as a theatre for disgraceful comedies, and the nuns themselves as shameless
actresses.  More than a hundred persons, furious against the Cure, had compromised themselves
in the hope of destroying him.  Their plot, instead of being abandoned, has gained strength
by its first check; and here are the means that have been set to work by his implacable enemies.

"Do you know a man called 'L'Eminence Grise', that formidable Capuchin whom the Cardinal employs
in all things, consults upon some, and always despises?  It was to him that the Capuchins of
Loudun addressed themselves.  A woman of this place, of low birth, named Hamon, having been
so fortunate as to please the Queen when she passed through Loudun, was taken into her service.
You know the hatred that separates her court from that of the Cardinal; you know that Anne
of Austria and Monsieur de Richelieu have for some time disputed for the King's favor, and
that, of her two suns, France never knew in the evening which would rise next morning.  During
a temporary eclipse of the Cardinal, a satire appeared, issuing from the planetary system of
the Queen; it was called, 'La cordonniere de la seine-mere'.  Its tone and language were vulgar;
but it contained things so insulting about the birth and person of the Cardinal that the enemies
of the minister took it up and gave it a publicity which irritated him.  It revealed, it is
said, many intrigues and mysteries which he had deemed impenetrable.  He read this anonymous
work, and desired to know its author.  It was just at this time that the Capuchins of this
town wrote to Father Joseph that a constant correspondence between Grandier and La Hamon left
no doubt in their minds as to his being the author of this diatribe.  It was in vain that he
had previously published religious books, prayers, and meditations, the style of which alone
ought to have absolved him from having put his hand to a libel written in the language of the
marketplace; the Cardinal, long since prejudiced against Urbain, was determined to fix upon
him as the culprit. He remembered that when he was only prior of Coussay, Grandier disputed
precedence with him and gained it; I fear this achievement of precedence in life will make
poor Grandier precede the Cardinal in death also."

A melancholy smile played upon the lips of the good Abbe as he uttered this involuntary pun.

"What!  do you think this matter will go so far as death?"

"Ay, my son, even to death; they have already taken away all the documents connected with his
former absolution that might have served for his defence, despite the opposition of his poor
mother, who preserved them as her son's license to live.  Even now they affect to regard a
work against the celibacy of priests, found among his papers, as destined to propagate schism.
It is a culpable production, doubtless, and the love which dictated it, however pure it may
be, is an enormous sin in a man consecrated to God alone; but this poor priest was far from
wishing to encourage heresy, and it was simply, they say, to appease the remorse of Mademoiselle
de Brou that he composed the work.  It was so evident that his real faults would not suffice
to condemn him to death that they have revived the accusation of sorcery, long since disposed
of; but, feigning to believe this, the Cardinal has established a new tribunal in this town,
and has placed Laubardemont at its head, a sure sign of death. Heaven grant that you never
become acquainted with what the corruption of governments call coups-d'etat!"

At this moment a terrible shriek sounded from beyond the wall of the courtyard; the Abbe arose
in terror, as did Cinq-Mars.

"It is the cry of a woman," said the old man.

"'Tis heartrending!"  exclaimed Cinq-Mars.  "What is it?"  he asked his people, who had all
rushed out into the courtyard.

They answered that they heard nothing further.

"Well, well," said the Abbe, "make no noise."  He then shut the window, and put his hands before
his eyes.

"Ah, what a cry was that, my son!"  he said, with his face of an ashy paleness--"what a cry!
It pierced my very soul; some calamity has happened.  Ah, holy Virgin!  it has so agitated
me that I can talk with you no more.  Why did I hear it, just as I was speaking to you of your
future career?  My dear child, may God bless you!  Kneel!"

Cinq-Mars did as he was desired, and knew by a kiss upon his head that he had been blessed
by the old man, who then raised him, saying:

"Go, my son, the time is advancing; they might find you with me.  Go, leave your people and
horses here; wrap yourself in a cloak, and go; I have much to write ere the hour when darkness
shall allow me to depart for Italy."

They embraced once more, promising to write to each other, and Henri quitted the house.  The
Abby, still following him with his eyes from the window, cried:

"Be prudent, whatever may happen," and sent him with his hands one more paternal blessing,
saying, "Poor child!  poor child!"

CHAPTER IV

THE TRIAL

               Oh, vendetta di Dio, quanto to dei
               Esser temuta da ciascun che legge
               Cio, che fu manifesto agli occhi miei.--DANTE.

Notwithstanding the custom of having secret trials, freely countenanced by Richelieu, the judges
of the Cure of Loudun had resolved that the court should be open to the public; but they soon
repented this measure. They were all interested in the destruction of Urbain Grandier; but
they desired that the indignation of the country should in some degree sanction the sentence
of death they had received orders to pass and to carry into effect.

Laubardemont was a kind of bird of prey, whom the Cardinal always let loose when he required
a prompt and sure agent for his vengeance; and on this occasion he fully justified the choice
that had been made of him. He committed but one error--that of allowing a public trial, contrary
to the usual custom; his object had been to intimidate and to dismay.  He dismayed, indeed,
but he created also a feeling of indignant horror.

The throng without the gates had waited there two hours, during which time the sound of hammers
indicated that within the great hall they were hastily completing their mysterious preparations.
At length the archers laboriously turned upon their hinges the heavy gates opening into the
street, and the crowd eagerly rushed in.  The young Cinq-Mars was carried along with the second
enormous wave, and, placed behind a thick column, stood there, so as to be able to see without
being seen.  He observed with vexation that the group of dark-clad citizens was near him; but
the great gates, closing, left the part of the court where the people stood in such darkness
that there was no likelihood of his being recognized. Although it was only midday, the hall
was lighted with torches; but they were nearly all placed at the farther end, where rose the
judges' bench behind a long table.  The chairs, tables, and steps were all covered with black
cloth, and cast a livid hue over the faces of those near them.  A seat reserved for the prisoner
was placed upon the left, and on the crape robe which covered him flames were represented in
gold embroidery to indicate the nature of the offence.  Here sat the accused, surrounded by
archers, with his hands still bound in chains, held by two monks, who, with simulated terror,
affected to start from him at his slightest motion, as if they held a tiger or enraged wolf,
or as if the flames depicted on his robe could communicate themselves to their clothing. They
also carefully kept his face from being seen in the least degree by the people.

The impassible countenance of M. de Laubardemont was there to dominate the judges of his choice;
almost a head taller than any of them, he sat upon a seat higher than theirs, and each of his
glassy and uneasy glances seemed to convey a command.  He wore a long, full scarlet robe, and
a black cap covered his head; he seemed occupied in arranging papers, which he then passed
to the judges.  The accusers, all ecclesiastics, sat upon the right hand of the judges; they
wore their albs and stoles.  Father Lactantius was distinguishable among them by his simple
Capuchin habit, his tonsure, and the extreme hardness of his features.  In a side gallery sat
the Bishop of Poitiers, hidden from view; other galleries were filled with veiled women.  Below
the bench of judges a group of men and women, the dregs of the populace, stood behind six young
Ursuline nuns, who seemed full of disgust at their proximity; these were the witnesses.

The rest of the hall was filled with an enormous crowd, gloomy and silent, clinging to the
arches, the gates, and the beams, and full of a terror which communicated itself to the judges,
for it arose from an interest in the accused.  Numerous archers, armed with long pikes, formed
an appropriate frame for this lugubrious picture.

At a sign from the President, the witnesses withdrew through a narrow door opened for them
by an usher.  As the Superior of the Ursulines passed M. de Laubardemont she was heard to say
to him, "You have deceived me, Monsieur."  He remained immovable, and she went on.  A profound
silence reigned throughout the whole assembly.

Rising with all the gravity he could assume, but still with visible agitation, one of the judges,
named Houmain, judge-Advocate of Orleans, read a sort of indictment in a voice so low and hoarse
that it was impossible to follow it.  He made himself heard only when what he had to say was
intended to impose upon the minds of the people.  He divided the evidence into two classes:
one, the depositions of seventy-two witnesses; the other, more convincing, that resulting from
"the exorcisms of the reverend fathers here present," said he, crossing himself.

Fathers Lactantius, Barre, and Mignon bowed low, repeating the sacred sign.

"Yes, my lords," said Houmain, addressing the judges, "this bouquet of white roses and this
manuscript, signed with the blood of the magician, a counterpart of the contract he has made
with Lucifer, and which he was obliged to carry about him in order to preserve his power, have
been recognized and brought before you.  We read with horror these words written at the bottom
of the parchment: 'The original is in hell, in Lucifer's private cabinet.'"

A roar of laughter, which seemed to come from stentorian lungs, was heard in the throng.  The
president reddened, and made a sign to the archers, who in vain endeavored to discover the
disturber.  The judge-Advocate continued:

"The demons have been forced to declare their names by the mouths of their victims.  Their
names and deeds are deposited upon this table. They are called Astaroth, of the order of Seraphim;
Eazas, Celsus, Acaos, Cedron, Asmodeus, of the order of Thrones; Alex, Zebulon, Cham, Uriel,
and Achas, of the order of Principalities, and so on, for their number is infinite.  For their
actions, who among us has not been a witness of them?"

A prolonged murmur arose from the gathering, but, upon some halberdiers advancing, all became
silent.

"We have seen, with grief, the young and respectable Superior of the Ursulines tear her bosom
with her own hands and grovel in the dust; we have seen the sisters, Agnes, Claire, and others,
deviate from the modesty of their sex by impassioned gestures and unseemly laughter. When impious
men have inclined to doubt the presence of the demons, and we ourselves felt our convictions
shaken, because they refused to answer to unknown questions in Greek or Arabic, the reverend
fathers have, to establish our belief, deigned to explain to us that the malignity of evil
spirits being extreme, it was not surprising that they should feign this ignorance in order
that they might be less pressed with questions; and that in their answers they had committed
various solecisms and other grammatical faults in order to bring contempt upon themselves,
so that out of this disdain the holy doctors might leave them in quiet. Their hatred is so
inveterate that just before performing one of their miraculous feats, they suspended a rope
from a beam in order to involve the reverend personages in a suspicion of fraud, whereas it
has been deposed on oath by credible people that there never had been a cord in that place.

"But, my lords, while Heaven was thus miraculously explaining itself by the mouths of its holy
interpreters, another light has just been thrown upon us.  At the very time the judges were
absorbed in profound meditation, a loud cry was heard near the hall of council; and upon going
to the spot, we found the body of a young lady of high birth.  She had just exhaled her last
breath in the public street, in the arms of the reverend Father Mignon, Canon; and we learned
from the said father here present, and from several other grave personages, that, suspecting
the young lady to be possessed, by reason of the current rumor for some time past of the admiration
Urbain Grandier had for her, an idea of testing it happily occurred to the Canon, who suddenly
said, approaching her, 'Grandier has just been put to death,' whereat she uttered one loud
scream and fell dead, deprived by the demon of the time necessary for giving her the assistance
of our holy Mother, the Catholic Church."

A murmur of indignation arose from the crowd, among whom the word "Assassin" was loudly reechoed;
the halberdiers commanded silence with a loud voice, but it was obtained rather by the judge
resuming his address, the general curiosity triumphing.

"Oh, infamy!"  he continued, seeking to fortify himself by exclamations; "upon her person was
found this work, written by the hand of Urbain Grandier," and he took from among his papers
a book bound in parchment.

"Heavens!"  cried Urbain from his seat.

"Look to your prisoner!"  cried the judge to the archers who surrounded him.

"No doubt the demon is about to manifest himself," said Father Lactantius, in a sombre voice;
"tighten his bonds."  He was obeyed.

The judge-Advocate continued, "Her name was Madeleine de Brou, aged nineteen."

"O God!  this is too much!"  cried the accused, as he fell fainting on the ground.

The assembly was deeply agitated; for a moment there was an absolute tumult.

"Poor fellow!  he loved her," said some.

"So good a lady!"  cried the women.

Pity began to predominate.  Cold water was thrown upon Grandier, without his being taken from
the court, and he was tied to his seat.  The Judge- Advocate went on:

"We are directed to read the beginning of this book to the court," and he read as follows:

     "'It is for thee, dear and gentle Madeleine, in order to set at rest
     thy troubled conscience, that I have described in this book one
     thought of my soul.  All those thoughts tend to thee, celestial
     creature, because in thee they return to the aim and object of my
     whole existence; but the thought I send thee, as 'twere a flower,
     comes from thee, exists only in thee, and returns to thee alone.

     "'Be not sad because thou lovest me; be not afflicted because I
     adore thee.  The angels of heaven, what is it that they do?  The
     souls of the blessed, what is it that is promised them?  Are we less
     pure than the angels?  Are our souls less separated from the earth
     than they will be after death?  Oh, Madeleine, what is there in us
     wherewith the Lord can be displeased?  Can it be that we pray
     together, that with faces prostrate in the dust before His altars,
     we ask for early death to take us while yet youth and love are ours?
     Or that, musing together beneath the funereal trees of the
     churchyard, we yearned for one grave, smiling at the idea of death,
     and weeping at life?  Or that, when thou kneelest before me at the
     tribunal of penitence, and, speaking in the presence of God, canst
     find naught of evil to reveal to me, so wholly have I kept thy soul
     in the pure regions of heaven?  What, then, could offend our
     Creator?  Perhaps--yes!  perhaps some spirit of heaven may have
     envied me my happiness when on Easter morn I saw thee kneeling
     before me, purified by long austerities from the slight stain which
     original sin had left in thee!  Beautiful, indeed, wert thou!  Thy
     glance sought thy God in heaven, and my trembling hand held His
     image to thy pure lips, which human lip had never dared to breathe
     upon.  Angelic being!  I alone participated in the secret of the
     Lord, in the one secret of the entire purity of thy soul; I it was
     that united thee to thy Creator, who at that moment descended also
     into my bosom.  Ineffable espousals, of which the Eternal himself
     was the priest, you alone were permitted between the virgin and her
     pastor!  the sole joy of each was to see eternal happiness beginning
     for the other, to inhale together the perfumes of heaven, to drink
     in already the harmony of the spheres, and to feel assured that our
     souls, unveiled to God and to ourselves alone, were worthy together
     to adore Him.

     "'What scruple still weighs upon thy soul, O my sister?  Dost thou
     think I have offered too high a worship to thy virtue?  Fearest thou
     so pure an admiration should deter me from that of the Lord?'"

Houmain had reached this point when the door through which the witnesses had withdrawn suddenly
opened.  The judges anxiously whispered together. Laubardemont, uncertain as to the meaning
of this, signed to the fathers to let him know whether this was some scene executed by their
orders; but, seated at some distance from him, and themselves taken by surprise, they could
not make him understand that they had not prepared this interruption.  Besides, ere they could
exchange looks, to the amazement of the assembly, three women, 'en chemise', with naked feet,
each with a cord round her neck and a wax taper in her hand, came through the door and advanced
to the middle of the platform.  It was the Superior of the Ursulines, followed by Sisters Agnes
and Claire.  Both the latter were weeping; the Superior was very pale, but her bearing was
firm, and her eyes were fixed and tearless.  She knelt; her companions followed her example.
Everything was in such confusion that no one thought of checking them; and in a clear, firm
voice she pronounced these words, which resounded in every corner of the hall:

"In the name of the Holy Trinity, I, Jeanne de Belfiel, daughter of the Baron de Cose, I, the
unworthy Superior of the Convent of the Ursulines of Loudun, ask pardon of God and man for
the crime I have committed in accusing the innocent Urbain Grandier.  My possession was feigned,
my words were dictated; remorse overwhelms me."

"Bravo!"  cried the spectators, clapping their hands.  The judges arose; the archers, in doubt,
looked at the president; he shook in every limb, but did not change countenance.

"Let all be silent," he said, in a sharp voice; "archers, do your duty."

This man felt himself supported by so strong a hand that nothing could affright him--for no
thought of Heaven ever visited him.

"What think you, my fathers?"  said he, making a sign to the monks.

"That the demon seeks to save his friend.  Obmutesce, Satanas!"  cried Father Lactantius, in
a terrible voice, affecting to exorcise the Superior.

Never did fire applied to gunpowder produce an effect more instantaneous than did these two
words.  Jeanne de Belfiel started up in all the beauty of twenty, which her awful nudity served
to augment; she seemed a soul escaped from hell appearing to, her seducer.  With her dark eyes
she cast fierce glances upon the monks; Lactantius lowered his beneath that look. She took
two steps toward him with her bare feet, beneath which the scaffolding rung, so energetic was
her movement; the taper seemed, in her hand, the sword of the avenging angel.

"Silence, impostor!"  she cried, with warmth; "the demon who possessed me was yourself.  You
deceived me; you said he was not to be tried.  To-day, for the first time, I know that he is
to be tried; to-day, for the first time, I know that he is to be murdered.  And I will speak!"

"Woman, the demon bewilders thee."

"Say, rather, that repentance enlightens me.  Daughters, miserable as myself, arise; is he
not innocent?"

"We swear he is," said the two young lay sisters, still kneeling and weeping, for they were
not animated with so strong a resolution as that of the Superior.

Agnes, indeed, had hardly uttered these words when turning toward the people, she cried, "Help
me!  they will punish me; they will kill me!" And hurrying away her companion, she drew her
into the crowd, who affectionately received them.  A thousand voices swore to protect them.
Imprecations arose; the men struck their staves against the floor; the officials dared not
prevent the people from passing the sisters on from one to another into the street.

During this strange scene the amazed and panic-struck judges whispered; M. Laubardemont looked
at the archers, indicating to them the points they were especially to watch, among which, more
particularly, was that occupied by the group in black.  The accusers looked toward the gallery
of the Bishop of Poitiers, but discovered no expression in his dull countenance.  He was one
of those old men of whom death appears to take possession ten years before all motion entirely
ceases in them.  His eyes seemed veiled by a half sleep; his gaping mouth mumbled a few vague
and habitual words of prayer without meaning or application; the entire amount of intelligence
he retained was the ability to distinguish the man who had most power, and him he obeyed, regardless
at what price.  He had accordingly signed the sentence of the doctors of the Sorbonne which
declared the nuns possessed, without even deducing thence the consequence of the death of Urbain;
the rest seemed to him one of those more or less lengthy ceremonies, to which he paid not the
slightest attention-- accustomed as he was to see and live among them, himself an indispensable
part and parcel of them.  He therefore gave no sign of life on this occasion, merely preserving
an air at once perfectly noble and expressionless.

Meanwhile, Father Lactantius, having had a moment to recover from the sudden attack made upon
him, turned toward the president and said:

"Here is a clear proof, sent us by Heaven, of the possession, for the Superior never before
has forgotten the modesty and severity of her order."

"Would that all the world were here to see me!" said Jeanne de Belfiel, firm as ever.  "I can
not be sufficiently humiliated upon earth, and Heaven will reject me, for I have been your
accomplice."

Perspiration appeared upon the forehead of Laubardemont, but he tried to recover his composure.
"What absurd tale is this, Sister; what has influenced you herein?"

The voice of the girl became sepulchral; she collected all her strength, pressed her hand upon
her heart as if she desired to stay its throbbing, and, looking at Urbain Grandier, answered,
"Love."

A shudder ran through the assembly.  Urbain, who since he had fainted had remained with his
head hanging down as if dead, slowly raised his eyes toward her, and returned entirely to life
only to undergo a fresh sorrow. The young penitent continued:

"Yes, the love which he rejected, which he never fully knew, which I have breathed in his discourses,
which my eyes drew in from his celestial countenance, which his very counsels against it have
increased.

"Yes, Urbain is pure as an angel, but good as a man who has loved.  I knew not that he had
loved!  It is you," she said more energetically, pointing to Lactantius, Barre, and Mignon,
and changing her passionate accents for those of indignation--"it is you who told me that he
loved; you, who this morning have too cruelly avenged me by killing my rival with a word. Alas,
I only sought to separate them!  It was a crime; but, by my mother, I am an Italian!  I burned
with love, with jealousy; you allowed me to see Urbain, to have him as a friend, to see him
daily."  She was silent for a moment, then exclaimed, "People, he is innocent!  Martyr, pardon
me, I embrace thy feet!"

She prostrated herself before Urbain and burst into a torrent of tears.

