With a small gouge held in the right hand scrape grooves about 1" apart, holding the calipers
in the left hand perpendicular to the cylinder and measuring the cuts as they are made. The
scraping should continue until the calipers will pass easily over the cylinder. It will be
well while scraping to work the handle of the gouge a little from side to side so that the
nose has more clearance. This will prevent the piece which is being turned from chattering
or vibrating.

The calipers will be slightly sprung by coming in contact with the revolving stock but this
error in diameter will be removed by the finishing cut which removes these marks from the finished
cylinder.

3. THE SMOOTHING CUT (LARGE SKEW).

FIG. 6. Lay the skew chisel on the rest with the cutting edge above the cylinder and at an
angle of about 60° to the surface.

Slowly draw the chisel back and at the same time raise the handle until the chisel begins to
cut about 1/4" to 3/8" from the heel. The first cut is begun from 1" to 2" from either end
and is pushed toward the near end. Then begin at the first starting point and cut toward the
other end. One should never start at the end to make a cut as there is danger that the chisel
will catch and cause the wood to split or that the chisel will be torn from the hands.

The first cut takes off the bumps and rings left by the gouge, and takes the stock down so
one can just see where the scraping to size was done. Then take the last cut and remove all
traces of these, leaving the cylinder perfectly smooth and of the required diameter at each
end. Test the cylinder for accuracy with a straight edge.

4. TESTING FOR SMOOTHNESS. In testing for smoothness place the palm of the hand, with the fingers
extended straight, lightly on the back of the cylinder opposite the tool rest. This position
will avoid any possibility of the hand being drawn in between the cylinder and the rest.

5. MEASURING FOR LENGTH (RULE AND PENCIL). FIG. 7. Hold the back edge of the rule in the left
hand and place it on the tool rest so that the front edge is almost in contact with the revolving
cylinder.

With a sharp pencil mark off the required length, starting from the dead center end. The first
mark should be just far enough in on the cylinder to insure cutting past the point of the dead
center. This will leave all surplus stock at the live center end where it is needed, because,
if not enough stock is left at this end, there is danger of striking the live center spur with
the tool and of injuring the chisel and perhaps the work.

In case several measurements are to be made, as in some of the following exercises, the rule
should not be moved until all are marked. This will insure more accurate work than if the rule
be changed several times.

6. SQUARING ENDS (SMALL SKEW AND PARTING TOOL). FIG. 8. This operation is done with the toe
or acute angle of the 1/2" or 1/4" skew chisel.

Place the chisel square on the tool rest. Swing the handle out from the cylinder so that the
grind, which forms the cutting edge, next to the stock is perpendicular to the axis of the
cylinder. The heel of the chisel is then tipped slightly from the cylinder in order to give
clearness. Raise the handle and push the toe of the chisel into the stock about 1/8" outside
the line indicating the end of the cylinder. Swing the handle still farther from the cylinder
and cut a half V. This will give clearance for the chisel point and will prevent burning. Continue
this operation on both ends until the cylinder is cut to about 3/16" in diameter.

The remaining 1/8" is then removed by taking very thin cuts (about 1/32") holding the chisel
as first stated. After each cut is made the end should be tested for squareness by holding
the edge of the chisel over the end of the cylinder.

This is an easy cut after it is mastered, but is one of the hardest to learn. Should the operator
lose control of the tool and allow any part other than the point to touch the cylinder, a run
or gashing of the wood will be caused.

In large cylinders where considerable stock has to be cut away in order to square the ends,
time will be saved by sizing the ends down with the parting tool to within 1/8" of the desired
line, leaving enough stock at the base of the cuts to still hold the cylinder rigid while cutting
on the ends.

For this operation hold the parting tool on the rest with the cutting edge parallel to the
axis of the cylinder and the lower grind tangent to the cylinder. Lift the handle and force
the cutting edge into the wood; at the same time push the chisel forward to keep it at the
proper tangency.

7. CUTTING OFF (SMALL SKEW). FIG. 9.

After both ends have been squared cut away stock, at both ends, to leave just enough to hold
the cylinder from separating from the waste ends.

With the chisel held in the right hand in the same position as in squaring the ends, and the
fingers of the left hand around the stock to catch it, slowly force the point of the chisel
into the stock at the live center end, until it is cut free and the cylinder stops in the operator's
hand. Too much pressure should not be used in this operation or it will cause the cylinder
to twist off instead of being cut, and will leave a ragged hole in the end.

The dead center end, which has been scored heavily before cutting off at the live center, is
then removed by holding the grind of the chisel flat on the end of the cylinder. The latter
is revolved by hand until the stock is cut away.

Exercise A-I--2-a. Shoulder Cuts

1. Turn a cylinder to the largest diameter required.

2. Lay off measurements with rule and pencil.

3. With the gouge (where space permits) or the parting tool (in narrow spaces) rough out surplus
stock, keeping 1/16" away from the lines indicating shoulders.

4. Caliper to the diameter of the second step.

5. The shoulders are cut down as described in "Squaring Ends, Step 6, Straight Cuts."

6. The new diameter or step is then trued up with a skew chisel in the same manner as a cylinder;
except that in nearing the shoulder the chisel is pushed up on the cylinder until the heel,
which is the only part that can be worked into the corner, becomes the cutting point. Fig.
10. In very narrow steps it will be advisable to use the heel entirely as a cutting point.

In spaces between shoulders, too narrow to permit the use of the skew chisel, very effective
work can be accomplished by slightly tipping the parting tool sideways to allow a shearing
cut to be taken with the cutting edge.

7. Where several steps are required on the same cylinder, each successive one is worked out
as above described.

Note:--All preliminary steps in working stock to size, laying of dimensions, etc., in preparation
for the exercise in hand, will be omitted in the following exercises:

Exercise A-I--3-a. Taper Cuts

Calipering for New Diameters. For all diameters on tapers the calipers should be set 1/16"
larger than the desired measurement in order to avoid working under size in the finishing cut
which removes all caliper marks.

If the taper runs to the extreme end of the cylinder, as in Plate A-I--3-a, a parting tool
should be used, instead of a gouge, to take off a very thin shoulder.

If the taper forms an internal angle as in Plate A-I--3-b, a gouge is used as in Step 2--Sizing
Cut--Plate A-I--1-a.

In other cases where tapers connect with straight cylindrical shoulders it is best to turn
the shoulders to size before working the tapers.

In cutting a long straight taper the skew chisel is used, much in the same manner as in ordinary
cylinder work, except that at the start of each cut the heel must be the cutting point. This
will avoid any chance of the chisel catching and drawing back and thus gouging the wood beyond
the starting point. As soon as the cut is well under way the chisel may be pushed up on the
cylinder so that the cutting point is a little above the heel. All cuts should be made from
the highest point on the cylinder to the lowest and thus cut across the grain of the wood.

In making the cut, care should be taken to see that the chisel is not tipped to a greater angle
than that of the taper wanted. Should that be done a hollow, or dished out, taper is sure to
be the result instead of a straight one.

Exercise A-I--4-a. V Cutting

In cutting V's a small skew is almost always used and the cutting is done with the heel.

Place the chisel square on the tool rest so that the cutting edge is perpendicular to the axis
of the cylinder. Draw the chisel back and raise the handle so that the heel is driven into
the wood, thus scoring it. This cut should not be too deep or the chisel will burn. This scoring
should be at the exact center of the V cut.

Swing the handle a little to the right and at the same time tip the chisel so that the grind,
which forms the cutting edge, is at an angle of about 45° with the axis of the cylinder. The
handle is then raised at an angle of 45° bringing the heel down to make a good cut. The chisel
is then swung to the other side and a similar cut is taken. These cuts are continued, together
with the center scoring, until quite close to the pencil marks. Test the angle before the finishing
cut is taken.

It will be found best to have the V slightly greater than 90° at the base until the final cut
is made, at which time it can be trued up.

The V should be tested with the square end of a rule. The cylinder should not be in motion
while testing.

When angles other than 45° are cut, the cutting edge of the chisel should be tipped so that
it is parallel or nearly so to the side of the cut desired.

A-I--5-a. Concave Cuts

The concave cuts as a rule will give the pupil considerable trouble at first owing to the fact
that the grind, which forms the cutting edge and which must be held perpendicular to the cylinder
at the start, is on the under side of the tool and cannot be seen. However, as soon as the
correct angle of the tool is located, the cut will be found as easy as any. Concaves are usually
made with a medium sized gouge either the 1/2" or 3/4".

Place the gouge on the rest with the grind or cutting edge well above the wood. The tool is
then rolled on its side so that the grind at the cutting point, which is on the lip of the
gouge well below the center, is perpendicular to the axis of the cylinder. Fig. 11.

Slowly raise the handle to force the gouge into the wood. As soon as the gouge has taken hold,
the tool is forced forward and upward by a slight lowering of the handle, while at the same
time it is rolled back toward its first position. Care should be taken not to roll the chisel
too fast or a perfect arc will not be cut.

By this triple action the grind, which comes in contact with the surface of the curve, forces
the lip sidewise and cuts one quarter of a circle. Reverse the position of the gouge and cut
from the other side in the same manner to form the other half of the semi-circle. The cutting
should always stop at the base of the cut as there is danger that the tool will catch when
cutting against the grain of the wood on the other side. Repeat this operation until within
about 1/16" of the required size. At the end of each successive cut the tool should have been
forced far enough forward and upward to bring the grind or nose of the chisel well out on top
of the cut. Fig. 12.

The exact depth of the concave is then calipered in the usual manner as described before. A
finishing cut is then taken after the cut has been tested with a templet.

A-I--6-a. Convex Cuts

The convex cut, or Bead as it is usually called, is generally considered the hardest cut to
make.--The cut is made with the heel of a small skew chisel, usually the 1/4" or 1/8".

After the cylinder has been marked off, rough out all stock between the beads with a parting
tool. The base of the cuts is finished the same as described in Plate A-I--1-a, for shoulder
cutting. With a sharp pencil mark the center of each bead to be made. This line is the starting
point for all cutting.

Place the chisel on the rest, with the cutting edge above the cylinder and the lower grind
tangent to it. Draw the chisel back and raise the handle to bring the heel of the chisel in
contact with the cylinder at the line indicating the center of the bead. The chisel is then
moved to the right (if cutting the right side of the bead); at the same time the chisel is
continually tipped to keep the lower grind tangent to the revolving cylinder and also to the
bead at the point of contact. Fig. 13. This cut is continued until the bottom of the bead is
reached. It is well in turning a series of beads to work the same side of all before reversing
to the other side.

Note:--The same principles employed in this exercise are also used in working out long convex
curves such as are found in chisel handles, mallet handles, etc. The only exception is that
in most cases the point of contact need not be the heel of the chisel but higher up as in ordinary
straight work.

A-I--7-a--Combination Cuts

These exercises are so designed as to include one or more of each of the foregoing cuts. The
student here is given an opportunity of combining these cuts into one finished product.

An analysis of the exercise chosen should be made to determine which of the various cuts should
be made first, second, etc., in order to produce the exercise in the shortest time and with
the least amount of tool manipulation.

After the student has mastered these cuts with a certain degree of skill and accuracy, he is
ready to apply them in working out various models in Section II.

A-II--1-a. Chisel Handles

At this point it is well to state that the small end of all work should be turned at the dead
center. In the case of chisel handles the socket or ferrule end is at the dead center where
the stock can safely be cut away to permit the fitting of the ferrule or the socket.

After the stock is turned to a cylinder of the largest dimension desired, the taper, for the
socket chisel, should be turned first and fitted to the chisel in which it is to be used. Then
the rest of the handle is worked out. Ferrules should also be fitted in the same manner. A
drive fit should be used for all ferrules.

A-II--2 and 3. Mallets and Gavels

The biggest source of trouble in these models is getting the handles to fit true. This is caused
by not getting the hole in the head straight.

Turn the head to a cylinder 3/16" larger than the finished dimension. Then bore the hole perpendicular
to the axis as near as possible, either by leaving it between the lathe centers or by placing
it in a vise. The handle is then fitted into the head. A snug fit is necessary. If one side
"hangs" or is lower than the other the centers are moved sufficiently to correct it. The head
is then turned to exact size and finished.

A-II--7. Vise Handles.

Turn the spindle with the solid head to dimensions. Bore a hole through a 1-1/4" square block
and fit the block snugly to the end of the spindle. Turn this block to the same dimensions
as the other head. This method will save chucking the second head and is much quicker.

CHAPTER VI

OVAL TURNING

Oval work as a problem in turning will be found to be a very good one as well as interesting
to the pupil. It brings in the principle of the oval as used in ordinary shop practice; (arcs
from points on the major and minor axes). For thick heavy ovals the off-centering is very slight,
while for long, thin ones the off-centering is greater. The measurements given on Plates A-III--1-a,
b and A-III--2-a, b will give a good idea of approximate distances to be used.

While the tool operations are much the same as in other spindle turning there is one notable
difference. The design must be worked out by eye, because of the nature of the work no caliper
measurements can be made for depth of cuts.

To get the best results the stock of oval turning should be cut square or slightly rectangular
in cross-section and about 3" longer than the model to be made. The thickness of the stock
should be about 1/8" greater than the major axis of the oval wanted.

The centers are located in the usual manner after which perpendicular lines are drawn from
the sides, passing through the points of the centers. From the ends of one of these, perpendicular
lines are extended lengthwise of the stock (on opposite sides) meeting the corresponding perpendicular
at the other end of the stock. These lines form the ridge of the oval. On the other perpendiculars,
the points for off-centering are laid off, measuring the required distance on both sides of
the center point.

With a 1/8" drill bore holes 1/4" deep at each of the off-centering points as well as the original
center. This will insure the lathe centers penetrating the stock at the proper point. The stock
is then placed in the lathe, using two corresponding off-center points as centers.

With the lathe running at third speed turn down the stock to the horizontal line forming the
ridge of the oval, excepting for a distance of about 1-1/4" at the ends. The stock at the ends
is necessary for the off-centering and, if cut away, will spoil the centering for the other
side, especially at the live center end. The stock is then changed to the other off-center
points and the second side is cut down to the line.

All measurements are then laid out and the design is cut, changing the stock in the lathe when
necessary. Care should be taken that the sharp ridge left on the work forms a straight line
the full length of the stock. After the design has been finished, the stock is centered on
the true center and a very thin cut is taken the full length of the object to remove the sharp
corners. The model is then sandpapered while the lathe is running very slowly.

CHAPTER VII

DUPLICATE TURNING

Under the head of duplicate turning have been classified only such models as clearly indicate
the necessity of making two or more articles to complete the model or set of articles desired.
But it is not intended to convey the idea that other models may not be made in duplicate as
in many cases it is very desirable and even preferable that they should be made that way. Whatever
the problem may be the suggestions offered at this point may be applied effectively.

Whenever two or more models are to be made identically alike there are always two possibilities
of inaccuracies that will render the work dissimilar: First, inaccurate measuring both for
length and points of new diameters and also on the new diameters themselves; second, a variation
in the curved surfaces either on long convex or concave cuts.

The first difficulty can be overcome to a great extent by the use of a measuring stick. This
stick should be made of any soft wood. It should be straight on one edge and about the thickness
of an ordinary rule. On the straight edge lay off very carefully measurements for length, shoulders,
beads, concaves and all points where calipering for new diameters will be necessary. Insert
at each point measured a small brad which has been sharpened at both ends, leaving the end
protrude about 1/8". Care should be taken that all brads protrude the same distance.

After the stock has been turned to the largest diameter, the stick is held in the position
of the rule while measuring and the points are forced against the revolving cylinder, thus
scoring it. This stick can be used as many times as the model is to be made and the measurements
will always be the same.

To avoid dissimilar curves it is well to cut out a full sized templet of the model to be made.
This templet can be made of any thin, stiff material, preferably light sheet iron. In some
cases it will be necessary to make the templet in several pieces in order to help facilitate
the tool operations.

The use of this templet will not only be a help to getting all curved surfaces the same, but
will also check up on the various new diameters on the model. The cylinder should never be
in motion while the templet is being used.

CHAPTER VIII

FINISHING AND POLISHING

To get a high and lasting polish on wood, the work must be first sanded so as to be perfectly
smooth. In addition to this, open grained wood, such as oak, must be properly filled with a
wood filler. If properly sharpened tools have been used very little sanding is required, and
then worn sandpaper should be used as it does not cut into the work as new paper cuts. Remember
sandpaper is not to be used as a tool in cutting down stock when working to dimensions. In
using old sandpaper run the lathe at a moderate speed to avoid burning the wood, especially
on square or round fillets. Keep the edges of the work sharp and do not wear them round. In
using new sandpaper use a fine grit (00 or 0) and move the paper from one end of the work to
the other slowly, so that no scratches result on the surface of the work.

The work may be finished by one of two methods. In the first method as in finishing ordinary
cabinet work, the pieces should be stained and filled. In applying filler, run the lathe at
the slowest speed after the material has dried sufficiently to rub into the pores of the wood.
If the highlights are to be brought out, as in the case of oak, stain and then give a light
coat of shellac, and apply the filler after the shellac is dry. The shellac keeps the dark
filler from staining the flakes of the oak darker, and the pores of the wood fill in as before.
The pores become darker than the flakes, and at the same time a smooth surface is produced.
After the filler has hardened the wood may be waxed or varnished.

The second method, or French polishing, is rather difficult to apply and requires a little
skill. A close grained wood, like maple, will be found more satisfactory for the beginner.
An open grained wood may be filled in the ordinary way, or the grain may be filled by rubbing
into the pores of the wood a combination of shellac, rotten stone or pumice, oil and alcohol.
Rotten stone is used for dark wood and pumice is used for light wood. The wood may be left
in the natural or stained as in the first method. The mixture of shellac, rotten stone, oil
and alcohol, is applied to the work with a pad made of cotton waste, wrapped in cheese cloth
to keep it from sticking to the work. It should be about 1-1/2" in diameter and 1/2" thick.
Hold the pad over the mouth of a bottle of shellac and tip the bottle so that the shellac comes
in contact with the pad. The shellac will remain clean in a bottle and will be handy. The mouth
of the shellac bottle should be about 1" in diameter and should be dipped once. Do likewise
with a bottle, having a mouth 1/2" in diameter, containing alcohol. This should be dipped twice
allowing the alcohol to dilute the shellac. Then drop on a couple of drops of oil and rub over
the pad evenly; this aids in distributing the shellac properly and keeps the pad from sticking
to the work. A bottle may also be used for this. For the rotten stone use a pepper shaker so
that it may be sifted on the work as needed.

When the mixture has been applied to the pad, hold the pad against the work lightly at first,
until most of the moisture has been worked out of it, and then gradually increase the pressure
until the pad is almost dry. In putting on the first coat, use more shellac and alcohol and
just enough oil at all times to prevent the pad from sticking to the work. However, the pad
should not contain as much shellac that it can be squeezed out with the fingers. When the pad
is dry, another mixture is applied, and where open grained wood is used, rotten stone, or pumice
stone, is sprinkled on the work to gradually fill up the pores and to build up a smooth surface.
Run the lathe at a low speed, depending on the size of the piece that is being polished. Allow
the first coat to dry before applying a second coat for, if too much is put on at any one time,
the heat generated in the rubbing will cause the shellac to pull, and it will form rings by
piling up. These rings may be worked out in two ways, either by a slight pressure of the pad
on the rings or by cutting them with alcohol applied to the pad. If too much alcohol is used
it will cut through the shellac and remove what has already been rubbed on. If at any time
too much shellac is used it will pile up and form rings. Too much rotten stone will cut down
the polish and by absorbing the mixture will leave the pad dry. If too much oil is used the
polish will become dull after a day or two.

After the first coat has hardened apply the second, but use less shellac and more alcohol and
just enough oil to prevent the pad from sticking. This may be done by dipping the tip of a
finger in the oil and spreading it over the pad. The entire mixture should be so that only
a dampness can be felt on the pad. As the process goes on less oil and shellac are used. All
oil must be removed when applying the last coat, or the piece will lose its polish. All the
pores should be filled, and no rings should be on the finished work. Where a natural finish
is desired, apply a coat of boiled linseed oil twelve hours before the work is to be polished.
This will bring out the grain and will also aid in applying the first coat; no oil need then
be used in the first coat.

A great amount of practice and patience is required to get a first class polish. Polishing
can only be learned by experience. Correct your troubles in properly proportioning the mixture.
Never use too much shellac as it will build up too fast and will not harden, thus causing rings;
or it will pull and catch to the pad, thus forming bunches. The purpose of alcohol is mainly
to dilute the shellac and to prevent against putting it on the work too fast, but care must
be taken not to use too much alcohol to cut the shellac entirely. The oil helps to distribute
the shellac evenly, but it must be removed when finishing the last coat, or the polish will
not remain. It also helps to keep the pad from sticking to the work.

It is impossible to obtain a polish that will be as lasting and rich by any method other than
the one described. For success it is essential to learn the proportions of the mixture and
to acquire skill in applying the materials by using exactly the right pressure and the right
movement of the pad.

CHAPTER IX

FACE-PLATE AND CHUCK TURNING

Face-plate and chuck turning open an entirely new field of work from that taken up in previous
chapters of this book. If handled correctly, it has much greater educational and practical
value than cylinder turning. From the practical standpoint the field of work is broader and
the models to be made are of much greater value. Aside from this, trade methods and practices
can be applied and a broad insight into commercial work can be given the student.

