 
Doctor Winchester had periods of distraction which grew longer and more frequent as the time
wore on.

As to Margaret, the suspense told on her exceedingly, as might have been expected in the case
of a woman.  She grew paler and paler still; till at last about midnight, I began to be seriously
alarmed about her. I got her to come into the library with me, and tried to make her lie down
on a sofa for a little while.  As Mr. Trelawny had decided that the experiment was to be made
exactly at the seventh hour after sunset, it would be as nearly as possible three o'clock in
the morning when the great trial should be made.  Even allowing a whole hour for the final
preparations, we had still two hours of waiting to go through, and I promised faithfully to
watch her and to awake her at any time she might name.  She would not hear of it, however.
She thanked me sweetly and smiled at me as she did so; but she assured me that she was not
sleepy, and that she was quite able to bear up.  That it was only the suspense and excitement
of waiting that made her pale.  I agreed perforce; but I kept her talking of many things in
the library for more than an hour; so that at last, when she insisted on going back to her
father's room I felt that I had at least done something to help her pass the time.

We found the three men sitting patiently in silence.  With manlike fortitude they were content
to be still when they felt they had done all in their power.  And so we waited.

The striking of two o'clock seemed to freshen us all up.  Whatever shadows had been settling
over us during the long hours preceding seemed to lift at once; and we went about our separate
duties alert and with alacrity.  We looked first to the windows to see that they were closed,
and we got ready our respirators to put them on when the time should be close at hand.  We
had from the first arranged to use them for we did not know whether some noxious fume might
not come from the magic coffer when it should be opened.  Somehow, it never seemed to occur
to any of us that there was any doubt as to its opening.

Then, under Margaret's guidance, we carried the mummied body of Queen Tera from her room into
her father's, and laid it on a couch.  We put the sheet lightly over it, so that if she should
wake she could at once slip from under it.  The severed hand was placed in its true position
on her breast, and under it the Jewel of Seven Stars which Mr. Trelawny had taken from the
great safe.  It seemed to flash and blaze as he put it in its place.

It was a strange sight, and a strange experience.  The group of grave silent men carried the
white still figure, which looked like an ivory statue when through our moving the sheet fell
back, away from the lighted candles and the white flowers.  We placed it on the couch in that
other room, where the blaze of the electric lights shone on the great sarcophagus fixed in
the middle of the room ready for the final experiment, the great experiment consequent on the
researches during a lifetime of these two travelled scholars.  Again, the startling likeness
between Margaret and the mummy, intensified by her own extraordinary pallor, heightened the
strangeness of it all.  When all was finally fixed three-quarters of an hour had gone, for
we were deliberate in all our doings.  Margaret beckoned me, and I went out with her to bring
in Silvio.  He came to her purring.  She took him up and handed him to me; and then did a thing
which moved me strangely and brought home to me keenly the desperate nature of the enterprise
on which we were embarked. One by one, she blew out the candles carefully and placed them back
in their usual places.  When she had finished she said to me:

"They are done with now.  Whatever comes--life or death--there will be no purpose in their
using now."  Then taking Silvio into her arms, and pressing him close to her bosom where he
purred loudly, we went back to the room.  I closed the door carefully behind me, feeling as
I did so a strange thrill as of finality.  There was to be no going back now. Then we put on
our respirators, and took our places as had been arranged.  I was to stand by the taps of the
electric lights beside the door, ready to turn them off or on as Mr. Trelawny should direct.
Doctor Winchester was to stand behind the couch so that he should not be between the mummy
and the sarcophagus; he was to watch carefully what should take place with regard to the Queen.
Margaret was to be beside him; she held Silvio ready to place him upon the couch or beside
it when she might think right.  Mr. Trelawny and Mr. Corbeck were to attend to the lighting
of the lamps.  When the hands of the clock were close to the hour, they stood ready with their
linstocks.

The striking of the silver bell of the clock seemed to smite on our hearts like a knell of
doom.  One!  Two!  Three!

Before the third stroke the wicks of the lamps had caught, and I had turned out the electric
light.  In the dimness of the struggling lamps, and after the bright glow of the electric light,
the room and all within it took weird shapes, and all seemed in an instant to change. We waited
with our hearts beating.  I know mine did, and I fancied I could hear the pulsation of the others.

The seconds seemed to pass with leaden wings.  It were as though all the world were standing
still.  The figures of the others stood out dimly, Margaret's white dress alone showing clearly
in the gloom.  The thick respirators which we all wore added to the strange appearance. The
thin light of the lamps showed Mr. Trelawny's square jaw and strong mouth and the brown shaven
face of Mr. Corbeck.  Their eyes seemed to glare in the light.  Across the room Doctor Winchester's
eyes twinkled like stars, and Margaret's blazed like black suns.  Silvio's eyes were like emeralds.

Would the lamps never burn up!

It was only a few seconds in all till they did blaze up.  A slow, steady light, growing more
and more bright, and changing in colour from blue to crystal white.  So they stayed for a couple
of minutes without change in the coffer; till at last there began to appear all over it a delicate
glow.  This grew and grew, till it became like a blazing jewel, and then like a living thing
whose essence of life was light. We waited and waited, our hearts seeming to stand still.

All at once there was a sound like a tiny muffled explosion and the cover lifted right up on
a level plane a few inches; there was no mistaking anything now, for the whole room was full
of a blaze of light. Then the cover, staying fast at one side rose slowly up on the other,
as though yielding to some pressure of balance.  The coffer still continued to glow; from it
began to steal a faint greenish smoke. I could not smell it fully on account of the respirator;
but, even through that, I was conscious of a strange pungent odour.  Then this smoke began
to grow thicker, and to roll out in volumes of ever increasing density till the whole room
began to get obscure.  I had a terrible desire to rush over to Margaret, whom I saw through
the smoke still standing erect behind the couch.  Then, as I looked, I saw Doctor Winchester
sink down.  He was not unconscious; for he waved his hand back and forward, as though to forbid
any one to come to him.  At this time the figures of Mr. Trelawny and Mr. Corbeck were becoming
indistinct in the smoke which rolled round them in thick billowy clouds.  Finally I lost sight
of them altogether.  The coffer still continued to glow; but the lamps began to grow dim. 
At first I thought that their light was being overpowered by the thick black smoke; but presently
I saw that they were, one by one, burning out.  They must have burned quickly to produce such
fierce and vivid flames.

I waited and waited, expecting every instant to hear the command to turn up the light; but
none came.  I waited still, and looked with harrowing intensity at the rolling billows of smoke
still pouring out of the glowing casket, whilst the lamps sank down and went out one by one.

Finally there was but one lamp alight, and that was dimly blue and flickering.  The only effective
light in the room was from the glowing casket.  I kept my eyes fixed toward Margaret; it was
for her now that all my anxiety was claimed.  I could just see her white frock beyond the still
white shrouded figure on the couch.  Silvio was troubled; his piteous mewing was the only sound
in the room.  Deeper and denser grew the black mist and its pungency began to assail my nostrils
as well as my eyes. Now the volume of smoke coming from the coffer seemed to lessen, and the
smoke itself to be less dense.  Across the room I saw something white move where the couch
was.  There were several movements. I could just catch the quick glint of white through the
dense smoke in the fading light; for now the glow of the coffer began quickly to subside. 
I could still hear Silvio, but his mewing came from close under; a moment later I could feel
him piteously crouching on my foot.

Then the last spark of light disappeared, and through the Egyptian darkness I could see the
faint line of white around the window blinds. I felt that the time had come to speak; so I
pulled off my respirator and called out:

"Shall I turn up the light?"  There was no answer; so before the thick smoke choked me, I called
again but more loudly:

"Mr. Trelawny, shall I turn up the light?"  He did not answer; but from across the room I heard
Margaret's voice, sounding as sweet and clear as a bell:

"Yes, Malcolm!"  I turned the tap and the lamps flashed out.  But they were only dim points
of light in the midst of that murky ball of smoke. In that thick atmosphere there was little
possibility of illumination. I ran across to Margaret, guided by her white dress, and caught
hold of her and held her hand.  She recognised my anxiety and said at once:

"I am all right."

"Thank God!" I said.  "How are the others?  Quick, let us open all the windows and get rid
of this smoke!"  To my surprise, she answered in a sleepy way:

"They will be all right.  They won't get any harm."  I did not stop to inquire how or on what
ground she formed such an opinion, but threw up the lower sashes of all the windows, and pulled
down the upper.  Then I threw open the door.

