At last the ambulance came. I dreaded being lifted, but those soldiers raised me so tenderly
the wrench was not half as bad as I had anticipated. I had been there just over forty minutes.
Then began the journey in the ambulance. The men gave me a fine salute as I was taken off and
I waved good-bye. One of the Sisters from the train came in the car with me and also the little
French doctor whose hand I hung on to most of the way, and which incidentally must have been
like pulp when we arrived.

As luck would have it the driver was a new man, and neither the doctor nor the sister knew
the way, so I had to give the directions. The doctor was all for taking me to the French military
hospital, but I asked to be taken to the Casino.

"So this is what the men go through every day," I thought, as we were into a hole and out again
with a bump and the pain became almost too much to bear. The doctor swore at the driver, and
I took another grip of his hand. "Bien difficile de ne pas faire ça," I murmured, for I knew
he had really manoeuvred it well. The constant give of the springs jiggling endlessly up and
down, up and down, was as trying as anything. The trouble was I knew every hole in that road
and soon we had to cross railway lines! The sister, who was a stranger too, began to worry
how she would find her way back to the train, but I assured her once arrived at the Casino,
she only had to walk up to our camp to get a F.A.N.Y. car. "I hope there won't be many people
there when I'm pulled out," I thought, "I hate being stared at in such a beastly mess," above
all I hated a fuss.

Now we had come to the railway lines. "What would it have been like without morphia?" I wondered.
Of course the drawbridge was up and that meant at least ten minutes wait till the ships went
through. My luck seemed dead out. At last I heard the familiar clang as it rattled into place,
and we were over.

I dared not close my eyes, as I had a sort of feeling I'd never be able to open them again.
"Only up the slope and then I'm there. If I can't keep them open till then, I'm done." The
pain was getting worse again, and from what the sister said I gathered something down there
had begun to hæmorrhage once more. Still no thought of the truth ever dawned on me.

At last we arrived and slowly backed into place. I could not help seeing the grim humour of
the situation; I had driven so many wounded men there myself. The Colonel, who must have heard,
for he was waiting, looked very white and worried, and Leather, one of the Duchess' drivers,
started visibly as I was pulled out. I was told after that my complexion, or what could be
seen of it, was ashen grey in colour and if my eyes had not been open they would have thought
the worst. I was carried into the big hall and there my beloved Wuzzy found me. I heard a little
whine and felt a warm tongue licking my face--luckily he had not been with me that morning.

"Take that ---- dog away, someone," cried the Colonel, who was peevish in the extreme. "He's
not a ---- dog," I protested, and then up came a Padre who asked gravely, "What are you, my
child?" Thinking I was now fairly unrecognisable by this time with the Frenchman's hanky round
my head, etc., I replied, "A F.A.N.Y., of course!" This completely scandalized the good Padre.
When he had recovered, he said, "No, you mistake me, what religion I mean?"

"He wants to know what to bury me under," I thought, "what a thoroughly cheerful soul!" "C.
of E.," I replied as per identity disc. He then took my home address, which seemed an unnecessary
fuss, and I was left in peace. Captain C. was there as well and came over to the stretcher.

"I've broken both legs," I announced, "will I be able to ride again?"

"Of course you will," he said.

"Sure?" I asked.

"Rather," he replied, and I felt comforted.

I was then carried straight through ward I. into the operating theatre. The men in bed looked
rather startled, and Barratt, a man I had driven and been visiting since, was near the door.
What he said is hardly repeatable. When the British Tommy is much moved he usually becomes
thoroughly profane! I waved to him as I disappeared through the door into the theatre.

I was speedily undressed. Dicky appeared mysteriously from somewhere and was a brick. The room
seemed to be full of nurses and orderlies and then I went slipping off into oblivion as the
chloroform took effect (my first dose and at that time very welcome) and at last I was in a
land where pain becomes obliterated in one vast empty space.

       *       *       *       *       *

I woke that afternoon and of course wondered where I was. Everything seemed to be aching and
throbbing at once. I tried to move, but I felt as if I was clamped to the bed. "This is terrible,"
I thought, "I must be having a nightmare." Then I saw the cradle covering my legs. "What could
it be?" I wondered, and then in a flash the scenes of that morning (or was it a week ago?)
came back to me. I wondered if my back was all right and felt carefully down the side. No,
there was no bandage, and I sighed with relief, though it ached like fury. I could feel the
top of the wooden splints on the one leg but nothing but bandages on the other.

My head had been sewn up, also my lip, and a nice tight bandage replaced the hanky.

It was thumping wildly and presently an unseen figure gave me something very cool to sip out
of a feeding mug. Things straightened out a bit after that, and I saw there were quantities
of flowers in the room, jugfuls in fact, which had been sent to cheer me along. Then something
in my leg, the one that was hurting most, gave a fearful tug and a jump and I drew in my breath
with a sobbing gasp. What could it be? It felt just as if someone had tugged it on purpose,
and it took ages to settle down again. I looked mutely at my nurse for an explanation, and
she put a cool hand on mine.

It was the severed nerve, and I learnt to dread those involuntary jumps that came so suddenly
from nowhere and seized one like a deadly cramp.

Everything, including my back, was one vast ache punctuated by those appalling nerve jumps
that set every other one in my body tingling.

How I longed to turn on my side, but that was a luxury denied me for weeks.

My friend Eva had heard the cheerful news when she returned from Boulogne, where she had been
all day, and she and Lowson were allowed to come and see me for a few minutes.

"I've broken both legs," I stated. "Isn't it the limit? They don't half hurt." They nodded
sympathetically, not daring to give me a hint of the real state of affairs.

"Captain C. says I'll be able to ride again though," I added, and once more they nodded.

"I told you what would happen when I lost that charm," I said to Eva.

I asked after "Little Willie," and heard his remains had been towed to camp, though being a
Hun he would of course manage to escape somehow!

I had an adorable V.A.D. to look after me. The best I ever want to have. She seemed to know
exactly what I wanted without being told. I felt almost too tired to speak, and in any case
it's not easy with stitches in your mouth.

The Padre, not my friend of the entrance hall I was glad to note, came to see me and I had
a Communion Service all to myself, as they thought I might possibly die in the night.

I dreaded the nights as I'd dreaded nothing before in my life; with darkness everything seemed
to become intensified. Whenever I did manage to snatch a few moments' sleep the dreadful demon
that seemed to lurk somewhere just out of sight would pop up and jerk my leg again. I would
think to myself "Now I will really catch him next time," and I would lie waiting in readiness,
but just as I thought I was safe, jerk! and my leg would jump worse than ever. I clenched my
fists in rage, and the V.A.D. came from behind the screen to smooth the pillows for me. I used
to lie and think of all the thousands of men in hospital and perhaps even lying untended in
No-man's-land going through twice as much as I, and wondered if the world would really be any
the better for all this suffering or if it would be forgotten as soon as the war was over.
It seemed to be rather a waste if it was to be so.

When morning came there were the dressings to be done. At 10 o'clock I used to try and imagine
it was really 11, and all over, but the rattle of the trolley and terribly cheerful voice of
Sister left room for no illusions on that score. My hands were useful on these occasions, and
at the end of the half hour were excellent examples of the shape of my teeth! They were practically
the only parts completely uninjured, and I knew that whatever happened I could still play the
violin again.

I could not understand why one leg had jumping nerves and the other apparently had none and
argued that the one must be half-broken to account for it. The B.E.F. specialist also paid
frequent visits.

Then one evening, the third or fourth I think, Captain C. came in and sat down in the shadow,
looking very grave.

I think it must have been one of the worst half-hours he ever spent. It is not a job any man
would relish to tell someone who is particularly fond of life that they have lost one leg and
the other has only just been saved! I was speechless for some minutes; in fact I refused to
believe it. It took a long time for the full horror of the situation to dawn on me. It will
seem odd that I did not feel I had lost my leg, but one never has that sensation even when
on crutches; the nerves are unfortunately too much alive.

Captain C. stayed a long time and the evening drew on but still he sat there and talked to
me quietly in the darkness. I wondered why I couldn't cry, but somehow it seemed to have nothing
to do with me at all. I was not the girl who had lost a leg. It was merely someone else I was
hearing about. "Jolly bad luck on them," I thought, "rotten not to be able to run about any more."

Then my leg jumped and it began to dawn on me that I was the girl to whom those things had
happened. Still, I could not cry. Useless to urge how lucky it was my knee had just been saved.
What use was a knee, I thought bitterly, if I could never fly round again! When was the very
soonest I could get about with one of these artificial legs, I asked, and he swore to me that
if all went well, in a year's time. A year! I had fancied the autumn at latest. Little did
I know it would be even longer. That night was the worst I'd had. It is a useless occupation
to kick against the pricks anyway, and the hours dragged slowly on till morning came at last.
When it was light enough I looked round, as well as I could at least, lying flat on my back,
for something to distract my thoughts. Seeing a Pearson's Magazine with George Robey on the
cover, I drew it towards me and saw there was an article by him inside. Quite sure that "George"
would cheer me up if anyone could I turned the pages and found it. It not only cheered me but
gave me the first real ray of hope. There in print was all Captain C. had told me the night
before, and somehow, to see a thing in print is doubly convincing. It was on disabled soldiers
and the pluck with which they bore their misfortunes.

There was one story of two of his friends who walked into his dressing-room one day. After
dancing about the place they told him they were out of the army.

"I don't see much wrong with you," said G., eyeing them up and down. They then whacked their
legs soundly and never flinched once, for they each had an artificial one! I blessed George
from the bottom of my heart. Someone told him this, and he promptly sat down and wrote to me,
enclosing several signed postcards and a drawing of himself at the end of the letter--his own
impression of what he looked like in the pre-historic scene in Zigzag--and a promise of a box
for the show as soon as I got to Blighty. Some jolly good fellow!

The countless flowers I received were one of the chief joys. I simply adored lying and looking
at them.

Every single person I knew seemed to have remembered me, and boxes of chocolates filled my
shelf as well.

The Parc d'Automobiles Belges sent such a huge gerbe that two men had to carry it, and, emblazoned
on a broad ribbon of the Belgian colours, spanning the whole thing, was my name and an inscription
in letters of gold! Captain Saxon Davies, from the "Christol" in Boulogne, had fruit sent over
in the boat from Covent Garden delivered at the hospital every morning by motor cycle. I felt
quite overwhelmed; everyone seemed determined to spoil me.

One day the Padre had come in to see me and was just concluding a prayer when there was a tap,
and the door opened on the instant. A large bottle, the size of a magnum, was pushed in by
an orderly, who, seeing the Padre, departed in haste. (I was squinting up through my eyelashes
and saw it all and just pulled myself together in time to say "Amen.")

I knew who had sent it and hastened to explain: "It's not champagne, Padre, it's Eau de Cologne!"
That surprising sportsman replied: "Isn't it? Bad luck. Have you a scent spray? No? Well, I'll
get you one!" (Some Padre!)

On the Sunday one of my people came over, thanks to the cheery telegrams the War Office had
been dispatching. It seemed an unnecessary fuss--the Colonel, too, showed distinct signs of
"needle"--but it was a dear little Aunt who is never flustered by anything and who greeted
me as if we had parted only yesterday. The word "leg" was not included in her dictionary at
all. One is apt to be a bit touchy at first about these little things, and though I had seen
the most terrible wounds in our hospital, amputations had always rattled me thoroughly.

The little Aunt subsequently entertained the austere A.P.M., while her papers were being put
in order, with most interesting details of my childhood and how she had brought me up from
a baby! The whole interview was described to me as "utterly priceless," by the F.A.N.Y. who
had taken her there.

The French Battery sent daily to enquire and presently I was allowed visitors. I began to realize
after a while that in losing a leg you find out exactly who your real friends are. There are
those whom I shall never forget who came day after day to read or talk to me--friends who paid
no attention when the leg gave one of its violent jerks, but went on talking as if nothing
had happened, a fact that helped me to bear it more than all the expressed sympathy in the
world. The type who says "Whatever was that? How dreadful!" fortunately never came. It was
only due to those real friends that I was saved from slipping into a slough of despond from
which I might never have hoped to rise. Eva gave up rides and tennis in order to come down
every day, and considering the little time there was to devote to these pastimes I appreciated
it all the more.

To say I was the best posted person in the place is no exaggeration. I positively heard both
sides of every question (top and bottom as well sometimes) and did my best to make as little
scandal as possible!

I was in a room off the "Grand Circle" of the one-time Casino, an officers' ward. One night
the Sister had left me for a moment and I could have sworn I saw three Germans enter. I thought
they said to me that they had come to hide and if I gave them away they would hit my leg. The
mere suggestion left me dumb and I distinctly seemed to see them getting under the two other
empty beds in the room.

After a few minutes it dawned on me what a traitor I was, and bit by bit I eased myself up
on my elbows. "I must go and tell someone these Germans are here," I thought, and turned back
the clothes. After throwing the small sand bags on the floor that kept my bad leg in position,
I next seized the cradle and pitched that overboard. I then carefully lifted first one leg
round and then the other and sat swaying on the side of the bed. The splints naturally jutted
out some distance from the end of my one leg and this struck me as being very funny. I wondered
just how I could walk on them. Then I looked down at the other and the proposition seemed funnier
still; though I could feel as if the leg was there, when I looked there was nothing. It was
really extremely odd! I sat there for some time cogitating these matters and was just about
to try how I could walk when very luckily in came an orderly.

"Germans!" I gasped, pointing to the two beds. I must have looked a little odd sitting swaying
there in a very inadequate "helpless" shirt belonging to the hospital! With a muttered exclamation
he rushed forward just catching me in his arms, and I was back in bed in a twinkling. The whole
thing was so clear to me; even now I can fancy I really saw those Germans, and the adorable
V.A.D., after searching under the beds at my request, sat with me for the rest of the night.
My "good" leg was tied securely down after that episode.

I was dead and buried (by report) several times that first week in hospital and Sergeant Richardson
from the Detail Issue Stores, who saw we always had the best rations, came up to see me one
afternoon. He was so spick and span I hardly recognized him, and in his hand was a large basket
of strawberries. The very first basket that had appeared in the fruiterers' that year. He sat
down and told me how anxious "the boys" were to hear how I really was. All sorts of exaggerated
rumours had been flying about.

He related how he had first heard the news on that fatal Wednesday and how "a bloke" told him
I had been killed outright. "I knocked 'im down," said the Sergeant with pride, "and when he
comes to me the next morning to tell to me you wos still alive, why, I was so pleased I knocked
'im down again!"

Bad luck on the "bloke," what? I was convulsed, only the trouble was it hurt me even to laugh,
which was trying.

He had been out in Canada before the war as a cowboy and had always promised to show me some
day how to pick things off the ground when galloping, a pastime we agreed I should now have
to forgo. I assured him if I couldn't do that, however, I had every intention of riding again.
Had I not heard that morning of someone who even hunted! I began to appreciate the fact that
I had my knee.

CHAPTER XVII

HOSPITALS: FRANCE AND ENGLAND

An old Frenchman came to the hospital every day with the English papers, and looked in to leave
me the Mirror, for which he would never accept any payment. He had very few teeth and talked
in an indistinct sort of patois and insisted on holding long conversations in consequence!
He told me he would be enchanté to bring me some novels bien choisis par ma femme (well chosen
by my wife) one day, and in due course they arrived--the 1 franc 25 edition.

The names in most cases were enough, and the pictures in some a little more! If they were his
wife's idea of suitable books for jeunes filles I wondered vaguely with what exactly the grown-ups
diverted themselves! I had not the heart to tell him I never read them.

