'So I had, but they're gone now. I tell you I've managed L1,000 myself. It would murder me
now if the seat were to go into other hands. I'd get the Committee on the Limehouse Bridge,
and we should treble our money. Vigil told me he would not refuse the Committee, though of
course the Government won't consent to a grant if they can help it.'

'Well, Undy, I can let you have L250, and that is every shilling I have at my banker's.'

'They would not let you overdraw a few hundreds?' suggested Undy.

'I certainly shall not try them,' said Alaric.

'You are so full of scruple, so green, so young,' said Undy, almost in an enthusiasm of remonstrance.
'What can be the harm of trying them?'

'My credit.'

'Fal lal. What's the meaning of credit? How are you to know whether you have got any credit
if you don't try? Come, I'll tell you how you can do it. Old Cuttwater would lend it you for
the asking.'

To this proposition Alaric at first turned a deaf ear; but by degrees he allowed Undy to talk
him over. Undy showed him that if he lost the Tillietudlem burghs on this occasion it would
be useless for him to attempt to stand for them again. In such case, he would have no alternative
at the next general election but to stand for the borough of Strathbogy in Aberdeenshire; whereas,
if he could secure Tillietudlem as a seat for himself, all the Gaberlunzie interest in the
borough of Strathbogy, which was supposed to be by no means small, should be transferred to
Alaric himself. Indeed, Sandie Scott, the eldest hope of the Gaberlunzie family, would, in
such case, himself propose Alaric to the electors. Ca'stalk Cottage, in which the Hon. Sandie
lived, and which was on the outskirts of the Gaberlunzie property, was absolutely within the
boundary of the borough.

Overcome by these and other arguments, Alaric at last consented to ask from Captain Cuttwater
the loan of L700. That sum Undy had agreed to accept as a sufficient contribution to that desirable
public object, the re-seating himself for the Tillietudlem borough, and as Alaric on reflection
thought that it would be uncomfortable to be left penniless himself, and as it was just as
likely that Uncle Bat would lend him L700 as L500, he determined to ask for a loan of the entire
sum. He accordingly did so, and the letter, as we have seen, reached the captain while Harry
and Charley were at Surbiton Cottage. The old gentleman was anything but pleased. In the first
place he liked his money, though not with any overweening affection; in the next place, he
had done a great deal for Alaric, and did not like being asked to do more; and lastly, he feared
that there must be some evil cause for the necessity of such a loan so soon after Alaric's
marriage.

Alaric in making his application had not done so actually without making any explanation on
the subject. He wrote a long letter, worded very cleverly, which only served to mystify the
captain, as Alaric had intended that it should do. Captain Cuttwater was most anxious that
Alaric, whom he looked on as his adopted son, should rise in the world; he would have been
delighted to think that he might possibly live to see him in Parliament; would probably have
made considerable pecuniary sacrifice for such an object. With the design, therefore, of softening
Captain Cuttwater's heart, Alaric in his letter had spoken about great changes that were coming,
of the necessity that there was of his stirring himself, of the great pecuniary results to
be expected from a small present expenditure; and ended by declaring that the money was to
be used in forwarding the election of his friend Scott for the Tillietudlem district burghs.

Now, the fact was, that Uncle Bat, though he cared a great deal for Alaric, did not care a
rope's end for Undy Scott, and could enjoy his rum-punch just as keenly if Mr. Scott was in
obscurity as he could possibly hope to do even if that gentleman should be promoted to be a
Lord of the Treasury. He was not at all pleased to think that his hard-earned moidores should
run down the gullies of the Tillietudlem boroughs in the shape of muddy ale or vitriolic whisky;
and yet this was the first request that Alaric had ever made to him, and he did not like to
refuse Alaric's first request. So he came up to town himself on the following morning with
Harry and Charley, determined to reconcile all these difficulties by the light of his own wisdom.

In the evening he returned to Surbiton Cottage, having been into the city, sold out stock for
L700, and handed over the money to Alaric Tudor.

On the following morning Undy Scott set out for Scotland, properly freighted, Mr. Whip Vigil
having in due course moved for a new writ for the Tillietudlem borough in the place of Mr.
M'Buffer, who had accepted the situation of Steward of the Chiltern Hundreds.

CHAPTER XXV

CHISWICK GARDENS

The following Thursday was as fine as a Chiswick flower-show-day ought to be, and so very seldom
is. The party who had agreed to congregate there--the party, that is, whom we are to meet--was
very select. Linda and Katie had come up to spend a few days with their sister. Mrs. Val, Clementina,
Gertrude, and Linda were to go in a carriage, for which Alaric was destined to pay, and which
Mrs. Val had hired, having selected it regardless of expense, as one which, by its decent exterior
and polished outward graces, conferred on its temporary occupiers an agreeable appearance of
proprietorship. The two Miss Neverbends, sisters of Fidus, were also to be with them, and they
with Katie followed humbly, as became their station, in a cab, which was not only hired, but
which very vulgarly told the fact to all the world.

Slight as had been the intimacy between Fidus Neverbend and Alaric at Tavistock, nevertheless
a sort of friendship had since grown up between them. Alaric had ascertained that Fidus might
in a certain degree be useful to him, that the good word of the Aristides of the Works and
Buildings might be serviceable, and that, in short, Neverbend was worth cultivating. Neverbend,
on the other hand, when he perceived that Tudor was likely to become a Civil Service hero,
a man to be named with glowing eulogy at all the Government Boards in London, felt unconsciously
a desire to pay him some of that reverence which a mortal always feels for a god. And thus
there was formed between them a sort of alliance, which included also the ladies of the family.

Not that Mrs. Val, or even Mrs. A. Tudor, encountered Lactimel and Ugolina Neverbend on equal
terms. There is a distressing habitual humility in many unmarried ladies of an uncertain age,
which at the first blush tells the tale against them which they are so painfully anxious to
leave untold. In order to maintain their places but yet a little longer in that delicious world
of love, sighs, and dancing partners, from which it must be so hard for a maiden, with all
her youthful tastes about her, to tear herself for ever away, they smile and say pretty things,
put up with the caprices of married women, and play second fiddle, though the doing so in no
whit assists them in their task. Nay, the doing so does but stamp them the more plainly with
that horrid name from which they would so fain escape. Their plea is for mercy--'Have pity
on me, have pity on me; put up with me but for one other short twelve months; and then, if
then I shall still have failed, I will be content to vanish from the world for ever.' When
did such plea for pity from one woman ever find real entrance into the heart of another?

On such terms, however, the Misses Neverbend were content to follow Mrs. Val to the Chiswick
flower-show, and to feed on the crumbs which might chance to fall from the rich table of Miss
Golightly; to partake of broken meat in the shape of cast-off adorers, and regale themselves
with lukewarm civility from the outsiders in the throng which followed that adorable heiress.

And yet the Misses Neverbend were quite as estimable as the divine Clementina, and had once
been, perhaps, as attractive as she is now. They had never waltzed, it is true, as Miss Golightly
waltzes. It may be doubted, indeed, whether any lady ever did. In the pursuit of that amusement
Ugolina was apt to be stiff and ungainly, and to turn herself, or allow herself to be turned,
as though she were made of wood; she was somewhat flat in her figure, looking as though she
had been uncomfortably pressed into an unbecoming thinness of substance, and a corresponding
breadth of surface, and this conformation did not assist her in acquiring a graceful flowing
style of motion. The elder sister, Lactimel, was of a different form, but yet hardly more fit
to shine in the mazes of the dance than her sister. She had her charms, nevertheless, which
consisted of a somewhat stumpy dumpy comeliness. She was altogether short in stature, and very
short below the knee. She had fair hair and a fair skin, small bones and copious soft flesh.
She had a trick of sighing gently in the evolutions of the waltz, which young men attributed
to her softness of heart, and old ladies to her shortness of breath. They both loved dancing
dearly, and were content to enjoy it whenever the chance might be given to them by the aid
of Miss Golightly's crumbs.

The two sisters were as unlike in their inward lights as in their outward appearance. Lactimel
walked ever on the earth, but Ugolina never deserted the clouds. Lactimel talked prose and
professed to read it; Ugolina read poetry and professed to write it. Lactimel was utilitarian.
Cui bono?--though probably in less classic phrase--was the question she asked as to everything.
Ugolina was transcendental, and denied that there could be real good in anything. Lactimel
would have clothed and fed the hungry and naked, so that all mankind might be comfortable.
Ugolina would have brought mankind back to their original nakedness, and have taught them to
feed on the grasses of the field, so that the claims of the body, which so vitally oppose those
of the mind, might remain unheeded and despised. They were both a little nebulous in their
doctrines, and apt to be somewhat unintelligible in their discourse, when indulged in the delights
of unrestrained conversation. Lactimel had a theory that every poor brother might eat of the
fat and drink of the sweet, might lie softly, and wear fine linen, if only some body or bodies
could be induced to do their duties; and Ugolina was equally strong in a belief that if the
mind were properly looked to, all appreciation of human ill would cease. But they delighted
in generalizing rather than in detailed propositions; and had not probably, even in their own
minds, realized any exact idea as to the means by which the results they desired were to be
brought about.

