1. In foti "feet" the long o was colored by the following i to long ö, that is, o kept its
lip-rounded quality and its middle height of tongue position but anticipated the front tongue
position of the i; ö is the resulting compromise. This assimilatory change was regular, i.e.,
every accented long o followed by an i in the following syllable automatically developed to
long ö; hence tothi "teeth" became töthi, fodian "to feed" became födian. At first there is
no doubt the alternation between o and ö was not felt as intrinsically significant. It could
only have been an unconscious mechanical adjustment such as may be observed in the speech of
many to-day who modify the "oo" sound of words like you and few in the direction of German
ü without, however, actually departing far enough from the "oo" vowel to prevent their acceptance
of who and you as satisfactory rhyming words. Later on the quality of the ö vowel must have
departed widely enough from that of o to enable ö to rise in consciousness[151] as a neatly
distinct vowel. As soon as this happened, the expression of plurality in föti, töthi, and analogous
words became symbolic and fusional, not merely fusional.

[Footnote 151: Or in that unconscious sound patterning which is ever on the point of becoming
conscious. See page 57.]

2. In musi "mice" the long u was colored by the following i to long ü. This change also was
regular; lusi "lice" became lüsi, kui "cows" became küi (later simplified to kü; still preserved
as ki- in kine), fulian "to make foul" became fülian (still preserved as -file in defile).
The psychology of this phonetic law is entirely analogous to that of 1.

3. The old drift toward reducing final syllables, a rhythmic consequence of the strong Germanic
stress on the first syllable, now manifested itself. The final -i, originally an important
functional element, had long lost a great share of its value, transferred as that was to the
symbolic vowel change (o: ö). It had little power of resistance, therefore, to the drift. It
became dulled to a colorless -e; föti became föte.

4. The weak -e finally disappeared. Probably the forms föte and föt long coexisted as prosodic
variants according to the rhythmic requirements of the sentence, very much as Füsse and Füss'
now coexist in German.

5. The ö of föt became "unrounded" to long e (our present a of fade). The alternation of fot:
foti, transitionally fot: föti, föte, föt, now appears as fot: fet. Analogously, töth appears
as teth, födian as fedian, later fedan. The new long e-vowel "fell together" with the older
e-vowel already existent (e.g., her "here," he "he"). Henceforward the two are merged and their
later history is in common. Thus our present he has the same vowel as feet, teeth, and feed.
In other words, the old sound pattern o, e, after an interim of o, ö, e, reappeared as o, e,
except that now the e had greater "weight" than before.

6. Fot: fet, mus: müs (written mys) are the typical forms of Anglo-Saxon literature. At the
very end of the Anglo-Saxon period, say about 1050 to 1100 A.D., the ü, whether long or short,
became unrounded to i. Mys was then pronounced mis with long i (rhyming with present niece).
The change is analogous to 5, but takes place several centuries later.

7. In Chaucer's day (circa 1350-1400 A.D.) the forms were still fot: fet (written foot, feet)
and mus: mis (written very variably, but mous, myse are typical). About 1500 all the long i-vowels,
whether original (as in write, ride, wine) or unrounded from Anglo-Saxon ü (as in hide, bride,
mice, defile), became diphthongized to ei (i.e., e of met + short i). Shakespeare pronounced
mice as meis (almost the same as the present Cockney pronunciation of mace).

8. About the same time the long u-vowels were diphthongized to ou (i.e., o of present Scotch
not + u of full). The Chaucerian mus: mis now appears as the Shakespearean mous: meis. This
change may have manifested itself somewhat later than 7; all English dialects have diphthongized
old Germanic long i,[152] but the long undiphthongized u is still preserved in Lowland Scotch,
in which house and mouse rhyme with our loose. 7 and 8 are analogous developments, as were
5 and 6; 8 apparently lags behind 7 as 6, centuries earlier, lagged behind 7.

[Footnote 152: As have most Dutch and German dialects.]

9. Some time before 1550 the long e of fet (written feet) took the position that had been vacated
by the old long i, now diphthongized (see 7), i.e., e took the higher tongue position of i.
Our (and Shakespeare's) "long e" is, then, phonetically the same as the old long i. Feet now
rhymed with the old write and the present beat.

10. About the same time the long o of fot (written foot) took the position that had been vacated
by the old long u, now diphthongized (see 8), i.e., o took the higher tongue position of u.
Our (and Shakespeare's) "long oo" is phonetically the same as the old long u. Foot now rhymed
with the old out and the present boot. To summarize 7 to 10, Shakespeare pronounced meis, mous,
fit, fut, of which meis and mous would affect our ears as a rather "mincing" rendering of our
present mice and mouse, fit would sound practically identical with (but probably a bit more
"drawled" than) our present feet, while foot, rhyming with boot, would now be set down as "broad
Scotch."

11. Gradually the first vowel of the diphthong in mice (see 7) was retracted and lowered in
position. The resulting diphthong now varies in different English dialects, but ai (i.e., a
of father, but shorter, + short i) may be taken as a fairly accurate rendering of its average
quality.[153] What we now call the "long i" (of words like ride, bite, mice) is, of course,
an ai-diphthong. Mice is now pronounced mais.

[Footnote 153: At least in America.]

12. Analogously to 11, the first vowel of the diphthong in mouse (see 8) was unrounded and
lowered in position. The resulting diphthong may be phonetically rendered au, though it too
varies considerably according to dialect. Mouse, then, is now pronounced maus.

13. The vowel of foot (see 10) became "open" in quality and shorter in quantity, i.e., it fell
together with the old short u-vowel of words like full, wolf, wool. This change has taken place
in a number of words with an originally long u (Chaucerian long close o), such as forsook,
hook, book, look, rook, shook, all of which formerly had the vowel of boot. The older vowel,
however, is still preserved in most words of this class, such as fool, moon, spool, stoop.
It is highly significant of the nature of the slow spread of a "phonetic law" that there is
local vacillation at present in several words. One hears roof, soot, and hoop, for instance,
both with the "long" vowel of boot and the "short" of foot. It is impossible now, in other
words, to state in a definitive manner what is the "phonetic law" that regulated the change
of the older foot (rhyming with boot) to the present foot. We know that there is a strong drift
towards the short, open vowel of foot, but whether or not all the old "long oo" words will
eventually be affected we cannot presume to say. If they all, or practically all, are taken
by the drift, phonetic law 13 will be as "regular," as sweeping, as most of the twelve that
have preceded it. If not, it may eventually be possible, if past experience is a safe guide,
to show that the modified words form a natural phonetic group, that is, that the "law" will
have operated under certain definable limiting conditions, e.g., that all words ending in a
voiceless consonant (such as p, t, k, f) were affected (e.g., hoof, foot, look, roof), but
that all words ending in the oo-vowel or in a voiced consonant remained unaffected (e.g., do,
food, move, fool). Whatever the upshot, we may be reasonably certain that when the "phonetic
law" has run its course, the distribution of "long" and "short" vowels in the old oo-words
will not seem quite as erratic as at the present transitional moment.[154] We learn, incidentally,
the fundamental fact that phonetic laws do not work with spontaneous automatism, that they
are simply a formula for a consummated drift that sets in at a psychologically exposed point
and gradually worms its way through a gamut of phonetically analogous forms.

[Footnote 154: It is possible that other than purely phonetic factors are also at work in the
history of these vowels.]

It will be instructive to set down a table of form sequences, a kind of gross history of the
words foot, feet, mouse, mice for the last 1500 years:[155]

[Footnote 155: The orthography is roughly phonetic. Pronounce all accented vowels long except
where otherwise indicated, unaccented vowels short; give continental values to vowels, not
present English ones.]

   I. fot: foti; mus: musi (West Germanic)
  II. fot: föti; mus: müsi
 III. fot: föte; mus: müse
  IV. fot: föt; mus: müs
   V. fot: fet; mus: müs (Anglo-Saxon)
  VI. fot: fet; mus: mis(Chaucer)
 VII. fot: fet; mous: meis
VIII. fut (rhymes with boot): fit; mous: meis (Shakespeare)
  IX. fut: fit; maus: mais
   X. fut (rhymes with put): fit; maus: mais (English of 1900)

It will not be necessary to list the phonetic laws that gradually differentiated the modern
German equivalents of the original West Germanic forms from their English cognates. The following
table gives a rough idea of the form sequences in German:[156]

[Footnote 156: After I. the numbers are not meant to correspond chronologically to those of
the English table. The orthography is again roughly phonetic.]

   I. fot: foti; mus: musi (West Germanic)
  II. foss:[157] fossi; mus: musi
 III. fuoss: fuossi; mus: musi (Old High German)
  IV. fuoss: füessi; mus: müsi
   V. fuoss: füesse; mus: müse (Middle High German)
  VI. fuoss: füesse; mus: müze[158]
 VII. fuos: füese; mus: müze
VIII. fuos: füese; mous: möüze
  IX. fus: füse; mous: möüze (Luther)
   X. fus: füse; maus: moize (German of 1900)

[Footnote 157: I use ss to indicate a peculiar long, voiceless s-sound that was etymologically
and phonetically distinct from the old Germanic s. It always goes back to an old t. In the
old sources it is generally written as a variant of z, though it is not to be confused with
the modern German z (= ts). It was probably a dental (lisped) s.]

[Footnote 158: Z is to be understood as French or English z, not in its German use. Strictly
speaking, this "z" (intervocalic -s-) was not voiced but was a soft voiceless sound, a sibilant
intermediate between our s and z. In modern North German it has become voiced to z. It is important
not to confound this s--z with the voiceless intervocalic s that soon arose from the older
lisped ss. In Modern German (aside from certain dialects), old s and ss are not now differentiated
when final (Maus and Fuss have identical sibilants), but can still be distinguished as voiced
and voiceless s between vowels (Mäuse and Füsse).]

We cannot even begin to ferret out and discuss all the psychological problems that are concealed
behind these bland tables. Their general parallelism is obvious. Indeed we might say that to-day
the English and German forms resemble each other more than does either set the West Germanic
prototypes from which each is independently derived. Each table illustrates the tendency to
reduction of unaccented syllables, the vocalic modification of the radical element under the
influence of the following vowel, the rise in tongue position of the long middle vowels (English
o to u, e to i; German o to uo to u, üe to ü), the diphthongizing of the old high vowels (English
i to ei to ai; English and German u to ou to au; German ü to öü to oi). These dialectic parallels
cannot be accidental. They are rooted in a common, pre-dialectic drift.

Phonetic changes are "regular." All but one (English table, X.), and that as yet uncompleted,
of the particular phonetic laws represented in our tables affect all examples of the sound
in question or, if the phonetic change is conditional, all examples of the same sound that
are analogously circumstanced.[159] An example of the first type of change is the passage in
English of all old long i-vowels to diphthongal ai via ei. The passage could hardly have been
sudden or automatic, but it was rapid enough to prevent an irregularity of development due
to cross drifts. The second type of change is illustrated in the development of Anglo-Saxon
long o to long e, via ö, under the influence of a following i. In the first case we may say
that au mechanically replaced long u, in the second that the old long o "split" into two sounds--long
o, eventually u, and long e, eventually i. The former type of change did no violence to the
old phonetic pattern, the formal distribution of sounds into groups; the latter type rearranged
the pattern somewhat. If neither of the two sounds into which an old one "splits" is a new
sound, it means that there has been a phonetic leveling, that two groups of words, each with
a distinct sound or sound combination, have fallen together into one group. This kind of leveling
is quite frequent in the history of language. In English, for instance, we have seen that all
the old long ü-vowels, after they had become unrounded, were indistinguishable from the mass
of long i-vowels. This meant that the long i-vowel became a more heavily weighted point of
the phonetic pattern than before. It is curious to observe how often languages have striven
to drive originally distinct sounds into certain favorite positions, regardless of resulting
confusions.[160] In Modern Greek, for instance, the vowel i is the historical resultant of
no less than ten etymologically distinct vowels (long and short) and diphthongs of the classical
speech of Athens. There is, then, good evidence to show that there are general phonetic drifts
toward particular sounds.

[Footnote 159: In practice phonetic laws have their exceptions, but more intensive study almost
invariably shows that these exceptions are more apparent than real. They are generally due
to the disturbing influence of morphological groupings or to special psychological reasons
which inhibit the normal progress of the phonetic drift. It is remarkable with how few exceptions
one need operate in linguistic history, aside from "analogical leveling" (morphological replacement).]

[Footnote 160: These confusions are more theoretical than real, however. A language has countless
methods of avoiding practical ambiguities.]

More often the phonetic drift is of a more general character. It is not so much a movement
toward a particular set of sounds as toward particular types of articulation. The vowels tend
to become higher or lower, the diphthongs tend to coalesce into monophthongs, the voiceless
consonants tend to become voiced, stops tend to become spirants. As a matter of fact, practically
all the phonetic laws enumerated in the two tables are but specific instances of such far-reaching
phonetic drifts. The raising of English long o to u and of long e to i, for instance, was part
of a general tendency to raise the position of the long vowels, just as the change of t to
ss in Old High German was part of a general tendency to make voiceless spirants of the old
voiceless stopped consonants. A single sound change, even if there is no phonetic leveling,
generally threatens to upset the old phonetic pattern because it brings about a disharmony
in the grouping of sounds. To reëstablish the old pattern without going back on the drift the
only possible method is to have the other sounds of the series shift in analogous fashion.
If, for some reason or other, p becomes shifted to its voiced correspondent b, the old series
p, t, k appears in the unsymmetrical form b, t, k. Such a series is, in phonetic effect, not
the equivalent of the old series, however it may answer to it in etymology. The general phonetic
pattern is impaired to that extent. But if t and k are also shifted to their voiced correspondents
d and g, the old series is reëstablished in a new form: b, d, g. The pattern as such is preserved,
or restored. Provided that the new series b, d, g does not become confused with an old series
b, d, g of distinct historical antecedents. If there is no such older series, the creation
of a b, d, g series causes no difficulties. If there is, the old patterning of sounds can be
kept intact only by shifting the old b, d, g sounds in some way. They may become aspirated
to bh, dh, gh or spirantized or nasalized or they may develop any other peculiarity that keeps
them intact as a series and serves to differentiate them from other series. And this sort of
shifting about without loss of pattern, or with a minimum loss of it, is probably the most
important tendency in the history of speech sounds. Phonetic leveling and "splitting" counteract
it to some extent but, on the whole, it remains the central unconscious regulator of the course
and speed of sound changes.

The desire to hold on to a pattern, the tendency to "correct" a disturbance by an elaborate
chain of supplementary changes, often spread over centuries or even millennia--these psychic
undercurrents of language are exceedingly difficult to understand in terms of individual psychology,
though there can be no denial of their historical reality. What is the primary cause of the
unsettling of a phonetic pattern and what is the cumulative force that selects these or those
particular variations of the individual on which to float the pattern readjustments we hardly
know. Many linguistic students have made the fatal error of thinking of sound change as a quasi-physiological
instead of as a strictly psychological phenomenon, or they have tried to dispose of the problem
by bandying such catchwords as "the tendency to increased ease of articulation" or "the cumulative
result of faulty perception" (on the part of children, say, in learning to speak). These easy
explanations will not do. "Ease of articulation" may enter in as a factor, but it is a rather
subjective concept at best. Indians find hopelessly difficult sounds and sound combinations
that are simple to us; one language encourages a phonetic drift that another does everything
to fight. "Faulty perception" does not explain that impressive drift in speech sounds which
I have insisted upon. It is much better to admit that we do not yet understand the primary
cause or causes of the slow drift in phonetics, though we can frequently point to contributing
factors. It is likely that we shall not advance seriously until we study the intuitional bases
of speech. How can we understand the nature of the drift that frays and reforms phonetic patterns
when we have never thought of studying sound patterning as such and the "weights" and psychic
relations of the single elements (the individual sounds) in these patterns?

Every linguist knows that phonetic change is frequently followed by morphological rearrangements,
but he is apt to assume that morphology exercises little or no influence on the course of phonetic
history. I am inclined to believe that our present tendency to isolate phonetics and grammar
as mutually irrelevant linguistic provinces is unfortunate. There are likely to be fundamental
relations between them and their respective histories that we do not yet fully grasp. After
all, if speech sounds exist merely because they are the symbolic carriers of significant concepts
and groupings of concepts, why may not a strong drift or a permanent feature in the conceptual
sphere exercise a furthering or retarding influence on the phonetic drift? I believe that such
influences may be demonstrated and that they deserve far more careful study than they have
received.

This brings us back to our unanswered question: How is it that both English and German developed
the curious alternation of unmodified vowel in the singular (foot, Fuss) and modified vowel
in the plural (feet, Füsse)? Was the pre-Anglo-Saxon alternation of fot and föti an absolutely
mechanical matter, without other than incidental morphological interest? It is always so represented,
and, indeed, all the external facts support such a view. The change from o to ö, later e, is
by no means peculiar to the plural. It is found also in the dative singular (fet), for it too
goes back to an older foti. Moreover, fet of the plural applies only to the nominative and
accusative; the genitive has fota, the dative fotum. Only centuries later was the alternation
of o and e reinterpreted as a means of distinguishing number; o was generalized for the singular,
e for the plural. Only when this reassortment of forms took place[161] was the modern symbolic
value of the foot: feet alternation clearly established. Again, we must not forget that o was
modified to ö (e) in all manner of other grammatical and derivative formations. Thus, a pre-Anglo-Saxon
hohan (later hon) "to hang" corresponded to a höhith, hehith (later hehth) "hangs"; to dom
"doom," blod "blood," and fod "food" corresponded the verbal derivatives dömian (later deman)
"to deem," blödian (later bledan) "to bleed," and födian (later fedan) "to feed." All this
seems to point to the purely mechanical nature of the modification of o to ö to e. So many
unrelated functions were ultimately served by the vocalic change that we cannot believe that
it was motivated by any one of them.

[Footnote 161: A type of adjustment generally referred to as "analogical leveling."]

