"I was dull enough now, and Elihu had the talk mostly to himself. It was not till we were almost
home that he said something which roused me up. And then I was angry with him, and asked him
what he thought of me to suppose I would so readily on with the new love before I was off with
the old. But I had no sooner made this speech than I burst into tears, and prayed him to forgive
me, for I knew I had done wrong, and not say any more to me, since I was so wretched. I do
not know well what reply he made, for before I had done speaking I was at home. There was the
dear old house I had so longed for,--the little, homely, unpainted house, with the well-sweep
taller than itself, and the great clump of lilacs by the front door.

"I went up the path unsteadily; my head was swimming, and there was a curious noise in my ears.
I pushed open the door. There was father with the open Bible before him, and his spectacles
lying upon it; the room was bright with the fire and the light of the pine-knot, and mother
was spinning on the little wheel, as she frequently did in the evening. Her face wore its own
sweet, peaceful look, but when she saw me the expression changed to one of alarm. She said
afterward that I looked more like a ghost than anything else.

"Why, Mercy!' she cried.

"Father turned slowly round, and beyond that I remember nothing. I fell on the floor in a dead
faint.

"Mother said I talked all night about what had been troubling me. Through all my delirium,
I had an aching consciousness that Ephraim was lost to me forever. I would rise to go to him,
as I thought, but when I reached the place where he had been, there was only Prudence or Semantha.

"In the morning the doctor came, and said it was scarlet fever. The other children had got
over it in childhood, but it had waited for me till now.

"I was very sick for a whole month. All that time mother was an angel of goodness to me. When
I was able to sit up, she told me that Ephraim had been to inquire for me often. But she said
no more, and I could not tell her the trouble then.

"I was wasted to a shadow, and was as weak as an hour-old babe. Mother used to tuck me up in
the great arm-chair, and then the boys would push the chair to the window, where I could look out.

"A great snow had fallen during my sickness. It had begun the night I came home, as Semantha
predicted, and the roads had been almost impassable. But they were quite good again now, and
father said the time had come for him to go down below. It was late in February, and he said
we should not have a great deal more snow, he thought, and if he waited till the spring thaws
came, there would be no getting to Boston.

"It was arranged that the oldest boy at home should go with father, so that there would be
nobody left with mother and me but Jem and David. Jem was eight years old, and David six come
May; but they were both smart, and we thought, with their help, we could take care of the cattle
till father came back.

"I could not do much yet, and I sat in my arm-chair while mother fried doughnuts, and baked
great loaves of bread, and made puddings, and roasted chickens, for them to take for food on
the journey. Father's way was to carry his own provisions, and stay at night with friends and
relations along the road; even if the sleighing was good, and nothing happened, he would be
a week or more in going to Boston. So, of course, the supply must be pretty generous.

"It was a still, bright morning when they set off, with a sky so clear that father thought
there would be no storm for many days. After the excitement of their starting passed away,
it seemed very quiet and lonesome; for you remember, though I have not said anything about
it, that my heart was aching for its lost love.

"I had said nothing about it to mother yet, but after they were gone, and the chores done up
for the night, and the boys playing with their cob-houses in the corner, she sat down beside
me, saying, 'Now, Mercy, tell me all about the trouble between you and Ephraim.' As well as
I could for crying, I told her, feeling very much ashamed when I came to the part about Elihu.
But mother was very gentle, and only said, 'I fear, my child, that savors of an unregenerate
heart.'

"That was true. But while I had been sick I had thought very seriously, and I was thankful
I had not been taken away while my heart was in such a state. I did not dare to tell mother
how God's goodness had shone down upon me while I lay ill in my bed, but I hoped and prayed
that it would not leave me.

"It was a relief as well as pain to see that mother blamed Ephraim. She said he should not
have allowed himself to be deceived and influenced by Prudence. I told her I was sure he could
not have loved me as he ought, and that I thought I would send back to him the little presents
he had made me, and say that I did not hold him to his promise.

"Mother agreed with me, and the next day I made up the package. There was a string of gold
beads, and a pair of silver shoe-buckles, and a Chinese fan, and a hymn-book, the bunch of
witch-hazel blossoms he picked for me that day in the woods, and, more precious than all the
rest, a letter, six foolscap pages in length, that he had written in the fall, while I was
visiting my cousin in Keene.

"I could not help crying-while I was putting them up, and I took out the letter twice, thinking
I might keep that. But mother said, if we were indeed to be separated, it was my duty to forget
my love for Ephraim, else it would darken all my life; and life, she said, was given us for
cheerful praise, and work, which is also praise.

"After I had sent my package by the mail-rider, who passed Mr. Allen's house every other day,
I thought my trouble would be easier to bear. But every day made it harder. I fell into a miserable
torpid state, taking no interest in anything, and feeling only my misery acutely. I could not
even pray for help, for prayer itself was a cross.

"Mother was very good to me; she gave me light, pleasant work to do, thinking to keep me busy.
But however busy my hands were, my thoughts were free, and used their freedom to make me suffer.

"Father had been gone eight days, when one afternoon mother came in from the barn, where she
had been to shake down some hay for the cows, with a face so sober that I was frightened at once.

"'Why, mother! what is the matter?' I cried.

"'I'm worried about your father, child,' she said, and then she went to the window and looked out.

"'Why, mother, if he started for home yesterday--'

"'He would be just in season to be caught in the snow,' she interrupted, with a vehemence unnatural
to her.

"'Snow, mother!'

"I rose, and went to the window. The sky was full of great masses of gray clouds, that sometimes
parted, and showed a steel-colored background, intense and cold, and immeasurably distant.
Wide before us spread the waste, white, uninhabited fields,--the nearest house a mile away,
and its chimney only visible above the hills which hid it. A tawny, brazen belt of light lying
along the west, where the sun had gone down, illuminated the snow, and gave a weird character
to the whole scene. There was a high wind swaying the tops of the tall trees before the house;
and once in a while you would see a fragment of cloud caught from the great gray curtain, and
torn into shreds, or ravelled into a thin web, which seemed for a moment to shut close down
upon us. It was a strange night, a strange sky.

"I felt a vague alarm. But I tried to speak cheerfully. 'It is too cold to snow, mother!'

"She pointed to the window. Even as I spoke the air was suddenly darkened by a multitude of
fine flakes, that crowded faster and faster, and were swirled about by the wind, and quickly
built up a wall around the door.

"As it grew dark the storm increased. The wind, which had been blowing steadily all day, rose
to a gale. It tugged at the doors and windows; it thundered down the chimney; it caught the
little house, and shook it till the timbers creaked; the noise was truly awful. We got the
boys into the trundle-bed as soon as we could, and then mother brought out her wheel, and I
took my knitting. There was a great blazing fire on the hearth, and the room was so warm that
the yarn ran beautifully. Mother made out her stint that night; she was a famous spinner, and
the wheel went as fast and the yarn was as even as if she had not been so dreadfully worried
about father. But every few minutes she would stop and say she hoped he had not started, or
that, having set out, he would be warned in time, and stop by the way.

"It was so strange to see mother, who was usually calm, so put about that I got very nervous,
and was glad when she stopped the wheel, and twisted up the yarn she had spun. But as she turned
around toward me with it in her hand, she looked so strange that I cried out to know what was
the matter.

"'It is nothing,' she whispered; but I took hold of her, and steadied her down into the arm-chair,
and then ran for the camphor. That brought her round; but now she looked feverish, and was
shaking all over, and I knew that she was going to have one of her ill turns,--possibly lung-fever,--for
her lungs were but weak, and she rarely got over the winter without a fever. The thought made
me half wild, but I dared not wait to cry or fret. I knew there was no time to be lost, and
I hurried around, and gave her a warm foot-bath, and kept hot flannels on her chest, and made
her drink a nice bowl of herb tea as soon as she was in bed; for I thought when the perspiration
started she would be relieved. I was glad enough when the great drops stood on her forehead.
Yet the hard breathing and the rattling in the chest were not cured. I kept renewing the steaming
flannels, as the doctor always directed, till she fell asleep. She slept almost all night,
and I sat in the chair by her, occasionally rousing up to put more wood on the fire, and listen
to the wind, which still held as fierce as it was at sundown.

"By and by I dozed,--I don't know how long, but I was wakened by hearing Jem call out, 'Mercy!
why don't it come day?'

"I started up. My fire had gone down, and the room was dark. Mother was breathing heavily beside
me.

"'I say, Mercy, isn't it morning? Why don't we get up?' persisted Jem.

"I begged him to be still, and, rising, made my way to the clock. I could not see the face,
but by touching the hands I made out that it was eight o'clock. I knew now that we were snowed
up, and that was the reason why it was so dark.

"I kindled up the fire and lighted a pine knot. Jem and David came up to the hearth to dress,
half crying and fretting for mother. But I pacified them with a breakfast of bread and milk,
and while they were eating it I ventured to open a door. There was a solid wall of snow, I
looked into the fore-room,--it was as dark as a cellar. Then I ran up my stairs, and here the
little courage I had forsook me, and I grew weak and sick. For the snow was already even with
the ledge of the chamber window, and all the outbuildings were as completely hidden as if the
earth had swallowed them in the night.

"I ran down stairs hastily, for I heard mother call.

"She looked up at me anxiously. 'How is it, Mercy?'

"'I'm afraid, mother, we are snowed up,' I said.

"'And I'm sick!'

"Mother was sick. That was the worst side of the trouble. It was a settled fever by this time,
I was sure. We both knew it, we both knew that no help was to be had, and that she might die
for want of it. We were both silent, neither daring to speak, not knowing how to encourage
and strengthen the other.

"Mother grew worse all day, in spite of all that I could do for her. The darkness in the house
was most depressing, and made the situation tenfold more painful; though I kept a fire and
a light burning as at evening, I had to be economical of both, for there was only a small stock
of fuel and a handful of pine knots in the house. It was painful to hear the poor cows at the
barn lowing for food, and to know that it was impossible to reach them. I might, perhaps, have
gone out on snow-shoes and managed to get into the barn by the window in the loft; but father's
shoes were loaned to a neighbor, and, even if they had been at hand, I should hardly dare to
risk my strength, not yet renovated after my sickness, and, which was so essential to mother's
safety, in an effort that might fail.

"So the hours went on, and the day that was like night wore to a close. In the evening mother
brightened up a little. She was calm now, and for the time free from pain. There was an unearthly
beauty in the large, bright hollow eyes, and the thin cheeks, where the rose of fever burned.
The disease had worked swiftly. Even this revival might be only a forerunner of death.

"'I want to tell you, dear,' she said, 'what to do in case I should not get well.'

"I hid my face in the quilt, and tried not to sob, while she went on, in a sweet, calm, thoughtful
way, to tell me of the things that in my inexperience I might forget. I must not be wasteful
of food or fuel; if the snow--which was still falling--should cover the chimney so that I could
not make a fire, I must wrap myself and the children in all the warm things I could find,--there
were some new blankets in the chest in the chamber, she said, that she had meant for me. I
must get those if I needed them. 'And if I am not here to encourage you, my child,' she said
tenderly, 'don't give up hoping. Help cannot be very far off. Some of the neighbors will come
to us, or father will work his way through the snow, and get home. And, Mercy, don't be afraid
of the poor body that I shall leave behind me. Think of it as the empty house that I have used
for a little while, and be sure it can do you no harm.'

"I promised all she asked, and hid my tears as well as I could. While she slept, and I could
do nothing for her, I kept the children quiet with playthings and stories. I cooked bread and
meat, and made a great kettle of porridge against the time when we might not be able to have
a fire; I hunted in the garret for bits of old boards and broken furniture that might serve
for fuel.

"For two days the wind held, and then there fell an awful silence as of the grave.

"Sometimes I read from the Psalms, or from the Gospel of John, which mother dearly loved; and
though she did not take much notice, but lay in a stupor most of the time, the holy words were
comfort and company to me. At other times I sat in mute grief, watching her painful breathing,
and the gradual pinching and sharpening of her features as the relentless disease worked upon
them. O, it was hard! I don't think many lives know so much and such utter misery. In my anxiety
and grief, and the mental bewilderment resulting from loss of sleep, I forgot to reckon the
days as they passed.

"But one day, as I sat by mother's pillow, my mind full of the dread that seemed now as if
it might any moment be realized,--of the awfulness of being left alone in that living tomb
with the marble image of what was and yet was not my mother, the clock struck nine in the morning.
Somewhere the sun was shining, I thought. Somewhere there were happy lovers, merry-makings
in divers places, wedding-bells ringing.

"A faint sound disturbed my revery. I started up and listened intently; but the noise did not
recur, and I dropped my head again, thinking my fancy had cheated me.

"I don't know why it was that what failed to reach my strained ear found its way to mother's;
but all at once, from having been in a stupid state from which I could hardly rouse her, she
opened her eyes, and said, 'What is that?'

"'Do you hear anything?' I asked, trembling. But before she could answer, I too heard a shout.

"Help was at hand! And mother might yet be saved!

"I burst into tears, and Jem and David set up a loud cry for company. Those outside heard it,
for the next instant there was a great halloo. They were cutting their way through the drift,--they
came every minute nearer and nearer. Pretty soon I heard a voice that set my heart beating
and made me sob again. It was Ephraim's.

"'Are you all alive?' he cried.

"'We are all alive, but mother is very sick.'

"I don't know how long it took to tunnel that huge snow-drift. I sat holding mother's hand
till there was a noise at the door. I sprang up then, and the next instant stood face to face
with Ephraim. And we did not meet as we had parted.

"I was glad to think that we owed our deliverance to him. He had roused up the neighbors, and
they came over that trackless waste on snow-shoes. On snow-shoes Ephraim went for the doctor,
and mother began to mend from the time of his coming.

"It was a week before father got home. Yet he had come as fast as the roads would let him,
travelling night and day in his eagerness to reach us. He told us of houses snowed up, and
people and animals perishing miserably. And by God's grace we were saved, even to the cows,
which in their hunger had broken loose from their stalls, and eaten the hay from the mow.

"And so my life's greatest joy and pain came to me by the storm. It gave Ephraim back to me.
For forty years as man and wife we had never a hard word.

"'Tis thirty years since he went,--thirty years of Heaven's peace for him. I did not think
to wait so long when he went. The children have been very good to me, but I've missed their
father always. But I shall go to him soon. Son Ephraim, I am ninety-two to-morrow!"

TOUJOURS AMOUR.

AMONG THE WORKERS IN SILVER.

Excursionists to Lake Superior, when they get away up in the northern part of Lake Huron, where
are those "four thousand islands" lying flat and green in the sun, without a tree or a hut
upon them, see at length, in the distance, a building like a large storehouse, evidently not
made by Indian hands. The thing is neither rich nor rare; the only wonder is, how it got there.
For many hours before coming in sight of this building, no sign of human life is visible, unless,
perchance, the joyful passengers catch sight of a dug-out canoe, with a blanket for a sail,
in which an Indian fisherman sits solitary and motionless, as though he too were one of the
inanimate features of the scene. On drawing near this most unexpected structure, the curiosity
of the travellers is changed into wild wonder. It is a storehouse with all the modern improvements,
and over the door is a well-painted sign, bearing the words,

                    RASPBERRY JAM.

If the present writer, when he first beheld this sign, had read thereon, "Opera-Glasses for
hire," or "Kid Gloves cleaned by a new and improved method," he could not have been more surprised
or more puzzled. The explanation, however, was very simple. Many years ago, it seems, a Yankee
visiting that region discovered thousands upon thousands of acres of raspberry-bushes hanging
full of fruit, and all going to waste. He also observed that Indian girls and squaws in considerable
numbers lived near by. Putting this and that together, he conceived the idea of a novel speculation.
In the summer following he returned to the place, with a copper kettle, many barrels of sugar,
and plenty of large stone jars. For one cent a pail he had as many raspberries picked as he
could use; and he kept boiling and jarring until he had filled all his vessels with jam, when
he put them on board a sloop, took them down to Detroit, and sold them. The article being approved,
and the speculation being profitable, he returned every year to the raspberry country, and
the business grew to an extent which warranted the erection of this large and well-appointed
building. In the Western country, the raspberry jam made in the region of Lake Huron has been
for twenty years an established article of trade. We had the curiosity once to taste tarts
made of it, and can testify that it was as bad as heart could wish. It appeared to be a soggy
mixture of melted brown sugar and small seeds.

But that is neither here nor there. The oddity of our adventure was in discovering such an
establishment in such a place. Since that time we have often had similar surprises, especially
in New England, where curious industries have established themselves in the most out-of-the-way
nooks. In a hamlet of three or four houses and a church, we see such signs as "Melodeon Manufactory."
At a town in Northern Vermont we find four hundred men busy, the year round, in making those
great Fairbanks Scales, which can weigh an apple or a train of cars. There is nothing in St.
Johnsbury which marks it out as the town in the universe fittest to produce huge scales for
mankind. The business exists there because, forty years ago, there were three excellent heads
in the place upon the shoulders of three brothers, who put those heads together, and learned
how to make and how to sell scales. All over New England, industries have rooted themselves
which appear to have no congruity with the places in which they are found. We heard the other
day of a village in which are made every year three bushels of gold rings. We ourselves passed,
some time ago, in a remarkably plain New England town, a manufactory of fine diamond jewelry.
In another town--Providence--there are seventy-two manufactories of common jewelry. Now what
is there in the character or in the situation of this city of Roger Williams, that should have
invited thither so many makers of cheap trinkets? It is a solid town, that makes little show
for its great wealth, and contains less than the average number of people capable of wearing
tawdry ornaments. Nevertheless, along with machine-shops of Titanic power, and cotton-mills
of vast extent, we find these seventy-two manufactories of jewelry. The reason is, that, about
the year 1795, one man, named Dodge, prospered in Providence by making such jewelry as the
simple people of those simple old times would buy of the passing pedler. His prosperity lured
others into the business, until it has grown to its present proportions, and supplies half
the country with the glittering trash which we all despise upon others and love upon ourselves.

