Such was Crossbourne some forty years back.  But now, what a marvellous change!  Coal has been
found close by, and the little village has leapt, as if by magic, into a thriving town.  Huge
factories and foundries rise from the banks of the stream; the ford is spanned by a substantial
bridge; the corn-mill has disappeared, and so have the rheumatic-looking old mossy cottages.
A street of prim, substantial houses, uniform, and duly numbered, with brass handles, latches,
and knockers to the doors, now leads up to the church.  And that venerable building has certainly
gained by the change; for the plaster and the iron chimney have vanished, full daylight pours
in through all the windows, while two new aisles have been added in harmony with the original
design of the unknown architect.  The vicarage, too, has expanded, and been smartened up to
suit more modern tastes and requirements.  And then all around the principal street are swarms
of workmen's dwellings,--and, alas! public- houses and beer-shops at every corner ready to
entrap the wretched victims of intemperance.  Besides all these there are a Town Hall and a
Mechanics' Institute; and the streets and shops and dwelling-houses are lighted with gas.

Crossbourne has, in fact, become a very hive of industry; but, unhappily, too many of the cells
of the hive are fuller of gall than of honey, for money is made fast and squandered faster:
and what wonder, seeing that King Alcohol holds his court amongst the people day and night!
And, to make all complete, Crossbourne now boasts of a railway running through it, and of a
station of its own, from which issues many a train of goods; and near the station a distillery,
from which there issues continually a long and lengthening train of evils.

Turning out of the principal street to the right, just opposite to where the old dingy sign-board
used to swing, a passer-by could not fail to notice a detached house more lofty and imposing
in its appearance than the plain working-men's cottages on either side of it.

At the time our story opens this house was occupied by William Foster, a skilled ironworker,
who was earning his fifty shillings a week, when he chose to do so; which was by no means his
regular habit, as frequent sprees and drinking-bouts with congenial companions made his services
little to be depended on.  However, he was a first-rate hand, and his employers, who could
not do without him, were fain to put up with his irregularities.

Foster was now in the prime of life, and had a young wife and one little baby.  He was professedly
a sceptic, and gloried in his creed--if he can be said to have any creed who believes in nothing
but himself.  Of course the Bible to him was simply a whetstone on which to "sharpen his tongue
like a serpent, that he might shoot out his arrows, even bitter words."  As for conscience,
he ridiculed the very idea of such an old- fashioned guide and monitor.  "No," he would say,
"as a true musician abhors discordant sounds, and as a skilled mechanic abhors bad work, and
therefore cannot turn it out without doing violence to his finer and more cultivated sensibilities,
so the best guide in morals to an enlightened man is his own sense of moral fitness and propriety."

Nevertheless, he was by no means over-scrupulous as to the perfection of his own handiwork
when he could slur over a job without fear of detection; while the standard of morality which
he set up for himself, certainly, to judge by his own daily life, did not speak much for the
acuteness of his moral perceptions.

