Our Italian had another specialty: he was perpetually in search of some notorious somnambulist.
It is a well-known fact that the mental agitation caused by governmental crises is very favorable
to these pythonesses of modern times. Each wishes to outrun the future and to afford himself
at least an illusion of the triumph of his party. The oracles varied according to the opinion
of the person who magnetized these ladies, and, often, according to the presumed desire of
the audience.

Delsarte allowed himself to be drawn into these mysteries. He had time for everything. It afforded
him relaxation, and a means of observation. On one occasion, he followed the refugee to a garden
where a person of "perfect lucidity" prophesied. The sibyl was a believer as well as a seer
and pretended to communicate with God in person. I do not know exactly what supernal secrets
the woman revealed, while she slept, but the result was ridiculous.

They had forgotten to fix the hour for the next sitting: so, to repair the omission--by means
of a few passes--the somnambulist was restored to sleep and lucidity. Then in a corner of the
garden, in a familiar tone and--to use the popular expression--in which, as may well be imagined,
the voice of Jehovah was not heard:

"My God, what day shall we return?"

"He says Wednesday," announced the lady.

"Thank you, God!"

If the Italian went into ecstasies over this irreverent trifling, Delsarte did not disdain
to caricature it, and gave us a most comical little performance. Here again we see how he could
transform everything, and make something out of nothing!

Among the frequenters of his lectures was an artist whom I would gladly mention for his talent
if I did not fear to annoy him by connecting his name with an incident concerning him. I relate
it in the hope of somewhat diverting my readers, to whom I must so often discourse of serious
things.

Mr. P. painted a portrait of Delsarte as a young man. The features are exact, the pose firm
and dignified, the eye proud. The painter and the model were on very good terms and sympathized
in religious matters. It must have been the master who brought him over. He still burned with
the zeal peculiar to recent converts; to such a point that even on a short excursion into the
country, he could not await his return to Paris to approach the stool of repentance. This desire
seemed easily satisfied; what village is without a father confessor!

So, one fine day, the artist rang at the first parsonage he could find. The priest's sister
opened the door--offered him a seat--and told him that her brother was away. But, after these
preliminaries, the lady seemed uneasy. She inquired what the stranger wanted.

"To speak with the priest."

What could this stranger have to say to him? Such was the question which floated in her eyes,
amidst the confused phrases in which she strove to gain an explanation. Mr. P. finally told
her that he had come to confess.

"My brother will not return till very late," said the poor girl, unable to disguise her distress.

"I will wait!" replied the traveler.

"Oh, sir, I hope you will not!"

He thought he heard her mutter: "We read such things in the papers!"

The visitor at last perceived that she took him for a thief, and he could not depart quickly
enough.

One more anecdote:

François Delsarte called himself a bad citizen, because he disliked to undertake the duties
entailed by reason of the national guard--a dignity long demanded by the advanced party of
the day, but of which they soon wearied.

I think that the artist's infractions were often overlooked, and his reasons for exemption
were never too closely scanned. And yet, the soldier-citizen was one day arraigned before a
council of discipline, which, without regard for this representative of the highest personages
of fiction, condemned him to three days' imprisonment.

It was as if they had imprisoned saltpetre in company with a bunch of matches--but he restrained
his rebellious feelings; he would not give his judges the satisfaction of knowing his torment.
He soon thought only of procuring consolation: he summoned his friends, who visited him in
throngs. Then he made the acquaintance of his companions in misfortune. There was one especially,
who, alone, would have made up to him for all the inconveniences of his forced arrest.

The first time that this prisoner entered the room where the other prisoners were assembled,
he looked at them with the most solemn air, put his hand to his forehead, made a military salute,
and in grave tones, as if beginning a harangue, he uttered these words:

"Captives--I salute you!"

It was strangely pertinent. Delsarte was not behindhand in comic gravity. This little scene
enlivened him.

Another compensation fell to the lot of our captive. One of the prisoners sang him a song,
one stanza of which lingered in his memory. I transcribe it:

    "I was born in Finisterre,
    At Quimperlay I saw the light.
    The sweetest air is my native air,
    My parish church is painted white!
    Oh! so I sang, I sighed, I said,--
    How I love my native air,
    And parish church so bright!"

These lines, written by some Breton minstrel, inspired one of those sweet, plaintive airs which
the drawling voice of the drovers sing as they return at nightfall; one of those airs which
seem to follow the brook down the valleys, and which repeat the echoes of the mountains, in
the far distance.

Oh! how Delsarte used to murmur it; it made one homesick for Brittany!

Chapter XIV.

Delsarte's Scholars.

To get one's bearings in that floating population (where persistency and fidelity are rare
qualities) which haunts a singing-school, it is well to make classifications. In Delsarte's
case, the novelty of his processes, his extraordinary reputation among the art-loving public,
the length of time which he insisted was necessary for complete education, all combined to
produce an incessant ebb and flow of pupils.

Therefore, I must distinguish.

First, there were those, brought by Delsarte's generosity, whose only resource was a vocation
more or less favored by natural gifts. He would say: "Come one, come all." But, of course,
many were called, and few were chosen, the majority only making a passing visit.

Then there were the finished artists. They took private lessons, coming to beg the master to
put the finishing touch to their work, hoping to gain from him something of that spiritual
flame which consecrates talent. I shall not undertake to speak of all, but I must quote a few
names.

One winter day, says La Patrie for June 18, 1857, a woman, beautiful and still young, visited
Delsarte, begging him to initiate her into the mysteries of Gluck's style:

"You are the greatest known singer," she said; "no one can enter into the work of the great
masters and seize their most secret thought as you do; teach me!"

"Who are you?" asked François Delsarte.

"Henrietta Sontag," replied the stranger.

Madame Barbot had a moment of great triumph, and was summoned to Russia at the period of her
success in Paris. She was perhaps the master's best imitator; she had somewhat of his tragic
emotion, his style, his gesture; then what did she lack to equal him? She lacked that absolute
sine qua non of art and poetry--personality. She added little of her own.

Even among those who could neither hear his lectures nor follow his lessons, Delsarte had disciples.
A great singing-teacher, whom I knew at Florence, was eager to learn everything concerning
the method. I often heard him ask a certain young girl, as he read a score: "You were Delsarte's
pupil; tell me if he would have read this as I have done?"

Even the famous Jenny Lind made the journey from London to Paris, expressly to hear the great
singer.

At his lectures were seen from time to time: M. and Mme. Amand Chevé, Mlle. Chaudesaigues,
M. Mario Uchard--who, after his marriage, asked for elocution lessons for his wife (Madeleine
Brohan),--Mlle. Rosalie Jacob, whose brilliant vocalization never won the renown which it deserved,
Mme. Carvalho, who was not one of the regular attendants, but who trained her rare talent as
a light singer, there, before the very eyes of her fellow pupils,--Géraldon, who was very successful
in Italy, under the name of Géraldoni.

Then, there was Mme. de B----, who appeared at the opera under the name of Betty; a beauty
with a fine voice. This artist did not perfect her talents, being in haste to join the theatre
in Rue Lepelletier, under the shield of another master. Although well received by the public,
she soon gave up the profession.

A memory haunts me, and I cannot deny it a few lines.

Mme. M. may have been eighteen when she began to study singing with Delsarte, together with
her husband, who was destined for a similar career. She had an agreeable voice, but a particularly
charming face, the freshness of a child in its cradle, a sweet expression of innocence. In
figure she was tall and slender. The lovely creature always looked like a Bengal rose tossing
upon its graceful stalk. These young students considered themselves finished and made an engagement
with the manager of a theatre in Brazil.

"Don't do it," said Delsarte to the husband, knowing his suspicious nature, "that is a dangerous
region; you will never bring your wife back alive."

He prophesied but too truthfully.

Soon after, we heard that the fair songstress had been shot dead by the hand of the husband
who adored her. I like to think that she was innocent of more than imprudence. The story which
reached us from that distant land was, that M. M. threatened to kill his wife if she continued
to associate with a certain young man.

"You would never do it!" she said.

She did not reckon on the aberrations of jealousy. It was said, in excuse for the murderer,
that she had defied him, saying:

"I love him, and I do not love you!"

After the catastrophe, the unfortunate husband gave himself up to justice. No case was found
against him, but how he must have suffered when he had forever cut himself off from the sight
of that enchanting creature!

Three figures stand preëminent in the crowd: Darcier, Giraudet, Madame Pasca.

I will proceed in order of seniority.

The first named did not attend the lectures when I did, but I often heard him mentioned in
society where he attracted attention by his rendering of Delsarte's "Stanzas to Eternity,"
Pierre Dupont's "Hundred Louis d'or," and many other impressive or dramatic pieces. I know
the master considered him possessed of much aptitude and feeling for art.

They met one evening at a large party given by a high official of the day. Darcier sang well,
in Delsarte's opinion; but it was perhaps too well for a public made up of fashionables, not
connoisseurs.

"It takes something more than talent to move them," thought the real judge, annoyed; and with
that accent familiar to well-bred people, which transfigures a triviality, he said to the singer:

"Let them have the bread!"

He referred to a political song ending with these lines:

    "Ye cannot hush the moan
    Of the people when they cry: 'We hunger ...'
    For it is the cry of nature,
    They want bread, bread, bread!"

The guests were forced to give the attention which it demanded to this cry which aroused the
idea of recent seditions, and the performer came in for his share.

This artist may still be heard, but his talents are displayed in so narrow a circle that his
reputation is a limited one. Yet it is said that his compositions and his mode of singing them
attest to great vigor.

Darcier, it seems, always retained a strong feeling of devotion for his master. He has been
heard to say: "I fear but two things--Delsarte and thunder."

Alfred Giraudet joined the grand opera as primo basso cantante. He was warmly received by the
press, and had already won a name at the Opéra Comique and at concerts. In this singer may
be noted the firmness of accent and scholarly mode of phrasing, always in harmony with the
prosody of the language, which are part of the tradition of the great school. He always bears
himself well on the stage, and the sobriety of his gesture is a salutary example which some
of his present colleagues would do well to imitate.

He, too, was a loyal soul; he always regarded it as an honor to bear the title of pupil of
Delsarte, the latter always writing to him as my dear and last disciple. I owe many of the
memories and documents used in this volume to his kindness.

Alfred Giraudet always took his audience captive when he sang Malherbe's verses--music by Réber--of
which each strophe ends with the following lines:

    "Leave these vanities, put them far behind us,
    'Tis God who gives us life,
    'Tis God whom we should love."

The broad, sustained style, so appropriate to the words of the melody, finds a sympathetic
interpreter in the young artist.

Delsarte gave this with great maestria. The finale, particularly, always transports the listeners.

If any one can revive the tradition of the master's teachings, it is certainly Giraudet, who
understands the method and appreciates its high import.

Madame Pasca was one of the latest comers; her advent was an event. There were pupils in the
school who were destined for the theatre, and there were women of society; the future artist
of the Gymnase partook of both phases. She had the advantages of a vocation and of a careful
education; her fortune allowed her to dress elegantly, with the picturesqueness imparted by
artistic taste.

Chance, or a presentiment of speedy success, led her to take her place, on the first day, very
near the master, in a peculiar seat--a sort of small, low easy chair which inspired one with
a sense of nonchalance. She was in full sight. Her gaze, profound and sombre at times, roamed
over the room with the natural air of a meditative queen. She inspired all beholders with curiosity
and interest. The feeling which she aroused in her fellow-pupils was less distinct. Her rare
advantages caused a vague fear in those who hitherto had securely held the foremost rank; her
beauty created a sense of rivalry, unconscious for the most part, and yet betrayed by countless
signs.

There was a flutter of excitement throughout the school. This increased when the young woman
confirmed, by her first efforts, all that her agreeable appearance and fascinating voice had
promised. She declaimed a fragment from Gluck's "Armida" which other pupils sang; a word sufficed
to change interest to sympathy.

That accent touched all hearts. What visible grief and what a sense of suppressed tears when
in her grave, slow tones she uttered the phrase:

"You leave me, Rinaldo! Oh, mortal pain!"

The master soon obtained from this marvellous aptness, what is rarely acquired, even after
long years of study: dramatic effects free from all hint of charlatanism. The distinguishing
point between Madame Pasca and Madame Barbot is, that the latter, while observing all the rules
of the method avoided servile imitation.

Delsarte was all the more delighted at his success, because he had revealed to his scholar
her true calling. Madame Pasca came to him for singing-lessons, but her large, strongly-marked
voice had little range. She was directed toward the art which she afterward practiced, and
began her studies with tragedy. Some idea of what she did in this field may be formed from
the effect which she produced in pathetic scenes, where the comedy allowed her serious voice
to show its power and penetrating tone.

I need not speak of Madame Pasca's success at the Gymnase and abroad. It is known and undoubted.
Still she lacks the consecration of the stage where Mars and Rachel shone. When this artist
left the school to enter upon her career, Delsarte said to her:

"My dear child, you will spend your life in atoning for the crime of being my pupil."

He was right, for Madame Pasca has no place at the Français yet.

I can speak from hearsay merely, of the lessons in elocution and declamation intended for preachers--particularly
for the fathers of the Oratory,--never having been present at them. I only know that Father
Monsabre and other famous ecclesiastics took lessons from François Delsarte.

Chapter XV.

Delsarte's Musical Compositions.

Delsarte paid but little attention to musical composition; still his musical works prove that
he would have succeeded here as elsewhere, had he devoted himself particularly to the task.

To say nothing of six fine vocal exercises and a number of songs which had their day, his "Stanzas
to Eternity" were highly popular. A mass by him was performed in several churches; but his
"Last Judgment," especially, ranks him among serious composers.

This setting of the Dies Irae is touching and severe; the melody is broad, sombre, threatening;
the accompaniment reminds one of the dull rattling of the skeletons reassuming their original
shape. One seems to hear the uneasy hum of voices roused from long sleep.

One incident showed the importance of this work. Various pieces of concerted music were being
rehearsed one night at the church of St. Sulpice, for performance during the solemnity of "the
work of St. Francis de Xavier." A close circle formed around the musicians; private conversation
added a discordant note to the harmony; the church echoed back the footsteps of people walking
to and fro.

The Dies Irae came! The music at first imitates the angel trumpets which, according to Christian
belief, are to be heard when time shall end. The summons sounded four times.

This mournful chant of reawakening generations instantly silenced every voice and every step;
all were motionless; and the solemn melody alone soared to the vaulted roof.

A touching story is told of this work. At a large and miscellaneous gathering, M. Donoso-Cortes,
a well-known Spanish publicist, then ambassador to Paris, begged Delsarte to sing his Dies
Irae. A space was cleared in the music-room.

The score of the symphony for voice and piano, made by Delsarte himself, retains all his intentions
and effects, to which his striking voice added greatly.

The whole assembly were taken captive. M. Donoso-Cortes was particularly moved. His eyes filled
with tears. He was not quite well that night.

A week later the newspapers invited the friends of the illustrious stranger to meet at St.
Philippe-du-Roule, to witness his funeral rites. Delsarte was present; the church was so hung
with black that the choristers were alarmed for the effect of their motets.

The artist recalled the request made him the previous week by the Spanish ambassador. He felt
as if that same voice came from the bier and begged him for one more hymn to the dead. In spite
of his emotion, he offered to sing the Dies Irae.

To obviate the lack of resonance, Delsarte sang--according to his theory in regard to the laws
of acoustics,--without expenditure of sound, almost mezza voce.

No one was prepared. The listeners were all the more overcome by those tones in which the friend's
regrets pervaded, with their sweet unction, the masterly diction of the singer.

When his oldest daughter grew up, Delsarte seemed to take a fancy to a different style of composition.
He would not give that young soul the regular repertory of his pupils, all passion and profane
love. He wrote for Marie words and music--couplets which were neither romance nor song; nor
were they quite canticles, although religion always lay at the base of them.

I know none but Madame Sand who can be compared to Delsarte in variety of feeling and simplicity
even unto grandeur. I have often observed a likeness and, as it were, a kinship between these
great minds. And yet these two great souls, these two great spirits, never exchanged ideas.
The artist never received the plaudits of the distinguished writer. Both regretted it.

Delsarte said: "I lack that sanction," and Madame Sand wrote, when he had ceased to live: "I
knew Delsarte's worth; I often intended to go and hear him, and some circumstance, beyond my
control, always prevented."

The world owes a debt to Delsarte for collecting under the title "Archives of Song," the lyric
gems of the XVI, XVII, and XVIII centuries. And also the songs of the Middle Ages, the prose
hymns and anthems of the church, arranged conformably to the harmonic type consecrated by the
oldest traditions.

"All these works," he wrote in his announcement of the work, "faithfully copied, arranged for
the piano and transposed for concert performance, will finally be arranged and classified in
separate volumes, to suit various voices, ages, styles, schools, etc., thus affording subject
matter for a complete course of vocal studies."

I do not think that death allowed Delsarte to complete this vast plan, but it was partly finished.
In the collection, we find the scattered treasures of an eminently French muse: old songs picked
up in the provinces, in which wit and naive sentimentality dispute for precedence. All this
still exists, but who can sing as he did the song beginning: "I was but fifteen," or "Lisette,
my love, shall I forever languish?" and so many others!

To explain the inexpressible charm which distinguished Delsarte from all other singers, a songstress
once said: "His singing contrives to give us the soul of the note. The others are artists,
but he is the artist."

Chapter XVI.

Delsarte's Evening Lectures.

In François Delsarte's school there were morning classes and evening classes. The former were
more especially devoted to the theory, to lessons. Those of which I shall speak might be compared
to lectures, to dramatic and musical meetings. A choice public was always present. Among them were:

The composers Réber and Gounod;

Doctor Dailly, Madame de Meyendorf--a great Russian lady, the friend of art;

The Princess de Chimay and the Princess Czartoriska, who glided modestly in and took the humblest
place;

Madame Blanchecotte, whose charming verses were crowned by the Academy;

Countess d'Haussonville, a familiar name;

M. Joly de Bammeville, one of the exhibitors at the Exhibition of Retrospective Arts, in 1878;

Doriot, the sculptor; Madame de Lamartine, Madame Laure de Léoménil, a well-known painter;
Madame de Blocqueville, daughter of Marshal Davout, and author of his biography; a throng of
artists, men of letters and scientists; certain original figures of the period.

On one occasion we were joined by a man of some celebrity--the chiromancist Desbarolles. Delsarte
had the courtesy to base his theory lesson upon the latter's system; he pointed out its points
of relation with the sum total of the constitution of the human being. It was a lesson full
of spirit and piquant allusions; one of those charming impromptus in which Delsarte never failed.

From time to time certain persons in clerical robes appeared in the audience; the austerity
of their habit contrasting somewhat strangely with the attire of the elegant women, men of
fashion and young actors in their apprenticeship around them; but matters always settled themselves.
One evening one of these priests was in a neighboring room, the doors of which were open into
the drawing-room. If the songs seemed too profane, he kept out of sight; but so soon as the
word God was pronounced or a religious thought was mingled with a romance, or operatic aria,
the servant of the altar appeared boldly, rejoiced at these brief harvests which allowed him
to enjoy the whole picture.

To give a correct idea of one of these evenings, I will copy an account which I have just written
under the heading of "Recent Memories."

By half-past eight, almost all the guests have assembled. A stir is heard in the next room.
"He is coming ... it is he!" is whispered on every hand. The master enters, followed by his
pupils. Almost at the same instant a young woman glides up to the piano. She is to accompany
the singers; she enters furtively, timidly, as if she were not the mistress of the house. She
is beautiful, but she does not wish this to be noticed; she has much talent, but she disguises
it by her calm and severe style of playing, which does not prevent critical ears from noting
her exactitude and precision, combined with that rare spirit of abnegation which is the accompanist's
supreme virtue.

Delsarte takes his place by the piano; his attentive gaze traverses the assembly; he exchanges
a smile, a friendly gesture with certain of the audience who are always much envied. At this
moment he is grave, serious, and as it were, penetrated by his responsibility to an audience
who hang devoutly on his lips.

The professor begins by developing some point in his system; he gives the law of pose or of
gesture; the reasons for accent, rhythm or some other detail connected with the synthesis which
he has evolved. He questions his scholars.

The first notes of the piano serve to mark the change to practical instruction. The pupils
sing in turn. The master listens with the concentrated attention peculiar to him; the expression
of his face explains the nature of the remarks he is about to make, even before he utters them.
He points out mistakes, he illustrates them.

Little by little, however, his dramatic genius is aroused. Achilles seems to seize his weapons
or Agamemnon his sceptre. The scholar is pushed aside, Delsarte takes his place.

Then the artist is seen to the utmost advantage. There, dressed in the vast, shapeless coat
which drapes itself about him as he gesticulates, his neck free from the cravat which puts
modern Europeans in the pillory, and allowing himself greater space than at his concerts--there,
and there alone, is Delsarte wholly himself.

The piano strikes the opening notes of the prelude, and before the artist has uttered a word,
he is transfigured. If he is singing serious opera, the oval of his face lengthens, the lines
become more fixed, his cheeks shrink, his forehead is lighted up and his eye flashes with inspiration;
the pallor of profound emotion pervades his features, the somewhat gross proportions of his
figure are disguised by the firmness of his pose and the juvenile precision of his gesture.

The part of Robert the Devil is one of those in which Delsarte best developed the resources
and suppleness of his genius. Robert is the son of a demon, but his mother was a saint. He
loves with sincere love; but even this love is subject to the influence of the evil spirit;
hence, these outbursts followed by such tender remorse, that heart which melts into tears after
a fit of rage. Robert is jealous, less so than Othello possibly, but Robert's jealousy is stimulated
by infernal powers and must differ in its manifestation. It was in these shades of distinction
that Delsarte's greatness was apparent to every eye.

Then came those indescribable inflections--words which pierced your heart, cold as a sword-blade:
"Come, come!" says Robert, striving to drag Isabella away, ... and that simple word was made
frantic, breathless, by the accent accompanying it. No one who has not heard Delsarte utter
the word rival can conceive of all the mysteries of hate and pain contained in the word.

In the trio from "William Tell," after the words, "has cut an old man's thread of life," Arnold
feels that Gessler has had his father murdered. A first and vague suspicion dawned on the artist's
face. Little by little, the impression became more marked, a clearer idea of this misfortune
was shown by pantomime; his eye was troubled, it kindled, every feature questioned both William
and Walter; the actor's hand, trembling and contracted, was stretched toward them and implored
them to speak more clearly. He was horror-stricken at the news he was to hear, but uncertainty
was intolerable; and when, after these touching preparations, Arnold himself tore away the
last shred of doubt, when he uttered the cry: "My father!" there was not a heart--were it bathed
in the waters of the Styx--which did not melt from the counter shock of such violent despair.

The effects of rage, hate, irony, the terrors of remorse, the bitterness of disappointment,
were not the only dramatic means in the possession of that artist whom Madame Sontag proclaimed
as "the greatest known singer." None could express as did Delsarte, contemplation, serenity,
tenderness--the dreams of a sweet and simple soul, and even the divine silliness of innocent
beings. Wit and malice were equally easy for him to render.

In the duet from "Count Ory:"

    "Once more I'll see the beauty whom I love,"

he was quite as apt at interpreting the hypocritical good-nature of the false hermit as the
sentimental playfulness of the love-lorn page.

In his school the comic style bore an impress of propriety and distinction, because it resulted
from intellectual perceptions rather than it expressed the vulgar sensations manifested by
exaggerated caricature and grimace.

Delsarte thus put his stamp upon every style which he attempted; he renovated every part. He
restored Gluck to life; he revealed Spontini to himself. The latter--the illustrious author
of "Fernando Cortez"--was at a musical entertainment where Delsarte, whom he had never known,
sang. He had drunk deep of the composer's inspiration: he showed this in the very first phrase
of the great air:

    "Whither do ye hasten? Oh, traitorous race!"

He sang with such vigorous accent, such great maestria, that--in the mouth of Montezuma--the
words must have sufficed to rally the Mexican army from its rout. He gave the cantabile:

    "Oh country, oh spot so full of charm!"

with indescribable sadness; desolation and despair seemed to fill his soul, and when the conquered
man invoked the spirits of his ancestors:

    "Shall I say to the shadows of my fathers,
    Arise--and leave your gloomy tomb!"

it seemed--so powerful was the adjuration--as if the audience must see the sepulchre open on
the spot which the singer and actor indicated by his gesture and his gaze.

Such profound knowledge, sublime talent, terrifying effects and contrasts so skilfully managed,
and yet so natural in their transition, strongly moved the composer.

"Do you know that you made me tremble?" Delsarte said to him after he had sang.

"Do you know that you made me weep?" replied Spontini, charmed to see his work raised to such
proportions.

Delsarte was always master of himself, however impassioned he appeared.

Often, in his lessons, when every soul hung upon his accents, he would stop abruptly and restore
the part to his pupil. Then, as if a magic wand had touched him, all the attributes of the
personage who had lived in him, vanished. His face, his form, his bearing resumed their usual
appearance. The artist disappeared, and the professor quietly resumed his place, without seeming
to notice that the audience--still shaken by the emotions they had felt--blamed him for this
too prompt metamorphosis.

Yet Delsarte was as agreeable a teacher as he was a marvelous artist. His instruction was enlivened
by countless unexpected flashes; his sallies were as quick as gunpowder.

"I die!" languidly sang a tenor.

"You sleep!" said the master.

"Come, lady fair!" exclaimed another singer.

"If you call her in that voice, you may believe that she will never come!"

"Don't make a public-crier of your Achilles," said the master to some one with a rich organ,
given over to its own uncultivated power.

All three smiled. The one tried to die more fitly; the other to call his lady fair in more
seductive accents. The petulant outburst of the master taught them more than many a long dissertation.

Delsarte made great use of his power of imitating a defect; he even exaggerated it so that
the scholar, seeing it reflected as in a magnifying-glass, more readily perceived his insufficiency
or his exaggeration.

If this mode of procedure was somewhat trying to sensitive vanity, it was easy to see its advantages.
The master's censure, moreover, was of that inoffensive and kindly character which is its own
justification. It was a criticism governed by gaiety. Delsarte laughed at himself quite as
readily as at the ridiculous performances which he caricatured, if opportunity offered. And
if by chance any pupil less hardened to these assaults was intimidated or distressed, consolation
was quick to follow.

I remember that a young girl gave rise to one of these striking imitations. Delsarte put such
an irresistible comedy into it, that the audience was seized with an uncontrolable fit of mirth.
The master's mimicry had far more to do with this than the poor girl's awkwardness. But she
did not understand this. Her heart sank at this harsh merriment and tears rushed to her eyes.

"What is the matter," asked Delsarte; "why are you so disturbed? Among the persons whose laughter
you hear, I do not think there is one who sings as well as you do! I exaggerated your mistake
to make you aware of it; but you did your work in a way that was very satisfactory to all but
your teacher."

Speaking of this irony tempered by mercy, I recollect that Delsarte, after a great success,
was once complimented by the singer P., whose popularity far exceeded that of the "lyric Talma."

"And yet you have given me lessons," said Delsarte, emphasizing the word yet. Well! in such
circumstances Delsarte showed neither the pride nor the malicious spirit which might be imputed
to him; his mind seized a contrast which amused him, and his face interpreted it, but his voice
remained soft and friendly; for, in spite of his biting wit and cutting phrases, his feelings
were easily touched and his heart was truly rich in sympathy.

Delsarte sang a great deal during his lessons; and perhaps he gained, from the point of view
of the voice, by confining himself to fragments; seizing the opportune moment, and his voice
not having had time to be tired, he could give, for a relatively long space, the clear, ringing
tones necessary for brilliant pieces. Then his vocalization--which has only a mechanical value
with most singers--became sobs, satanic laughter, delirium, and terror.

Then, too, thanks to proximity, the most delicate tones could be heard to the extreme limits
of the smorzando, still preserving that slightly veiled timbre unique in its charm, the mysterious
interpreter of infinite sweetness and unspeakable tenderness.

One might perhaps have made a complete analysis of Delsarte from hearing him sing some dramatic
song, but let him give Eleazar's air from "The Jewess:"

    "Rachel, when the Lord,"

or that of Joseph:

    "Paternal fields, Hebron, sweet vale,--"

let the artist give this in a quiet style, as putting a mute upon his voice, and the observer
forgot his part; he followed the entrancing melody as far as it would lead him into the realms
of the ineffable whence he returned with the fascination of memory and the sorrow of exile.

Let no one cry that this is hyperbole! One of the most remarkable accompanists in Paris, an
attaché of the Opéra Comique, M. Bazile, was once so overcome by emotion in accompanying Delsarte
that for some seconds the piano failed to do its duty.

I might recount numberless proofs of admiration equal to mine. One evening, at a lecture, the
lesson turned upon a song from "William Tell:"

    "Be motionless, and to the ground
    Incline a suppliant knee."

For stage effect, Delsarte called in one of his children, about eight or nine years old.

The subject is well known: William has been condemned to strike from a distance, with the tip
of his arrow, an apple placed on the head of his child.

William bids the child pray to God, and implores him not to stir. Reversing the action of all
actors whom we usually see, the artist recited the fragment in a wholly concentric fashion;
he did not declaim; he made no gesture toward the audience; but what emotion in his voice,
and how his gaze hovered over and around the dear creature who was perhaps to be forever lost
to him! He called the child to him, he pressed him to his heart; he laid his hands on that
young head. His caresses had the lingering slowness of supreme and final things, the solemnity
of a last benediction.

    "This point of steel may terrify thine eyes!"

says the text, and the tragedian, enlarging the meaning of the words by inflection and accent,
showed that this precious life hung on a thread and depended on the firmness of his hand.

At the last phrase:

    "Jemmy, Jemmy, think of thy mother,
    She who awaits us both at home!"

his voice became pathetic to such a degree that it was difficult to endure it. The child, who
had restrained himself during the tirade, began to sob. All eyes were full of tears. One lady
fainted.

At concerts his triumph was the same on a larger scale. I will give but one anecdote. A man
of letters, who was also a skilled physician, said to Delsarte:

"Do you know, sir, that I made your acquaintance in a very strange way? I was at the Herz Hall,
at your concert. Your voice and singing so agitated me that I was forced to leave the room,
feeling oppressed and almost faint."

This impressionable listener referred to a day memorable in the annals of the master. Delsarte--he
sang certain airs written for women in Gluck's operas--had selected Clytemnestra's song:

    "A priest, encircled by a cruel throng,
    Shall on my daughter lay his guilty hand."

Just as this maternal despair reached its paroxysm, the artist raised both hands to his head
and remained in the most striking attitude possible to overwhelming grief. Loud applause burst
from every part of the hall; there was a frenzy, a delirium of enthusiasm. At the same time,
a violent storm burst outside; the roaring thunder, the rain beating in floods upon the windows,
the flashing lightning which turned the gas-lights pale, formed a tremendous orchestra for
Gluck's music, and a fantastic frame for the sublime actor. Then, as if crushed by his glory,
he prolonged that marvelous effect, and stood a moment as if annihilated by the frantic and
tumultuous shouts of the audience.

Chapter XVII.

Delsarte's Inventions.

Delsarte always had his father's propensity to devote himself to mechanics that he might apply
his knowledge of them to new things. When he felt his artistic abilities, not growing less,
but their plastic expression becoming more difficult, owing to the cruel warnings of his departing
youth, this tendency toward occupations more especially intellectual, became more marked.

It may be helpful here to note that a machine--that positive and most material of all things--is
the thing whose creation requires force of understanding in the highest degree.

The brain, that living machine, lends its aid to the intellect; it represents the physical
side; it is the spot where the work is carried on. Feeling has no part in the intellectual
acts which work together in mechanical production,--mathematics playing the principal part,--it
has no other share, I say, but to inspire certain persons with a passionate taste for abstract
studies, which leads them toward useful and glorious discoveries.

Thus, this thought of Delsarte and Pierre Leroux seems to be justified: that, in no case, can
man break his essential triplicity.

Delsarte, moreover, by changing the direction of his faculties, or rather by displacing the
dominant, affirmed his freedom of will. If he did not always class himself with the strong,
he still loved to reign over himself in the omnipotence of his will.

The artist became an inventor; he took out letters-patent for various discoveries, among others
for an instrument of precision applicable to astronomical observations. Competent persons have
recognized the great value of this invention, conceived without previous study, and which remains
hidden among the papers of some official.

Only one of his mechanical conceptions was ever really put to practical use, that of the Guide-accord;
it gained him a gold medal at the Exhibition of 1855; Dublin awarded it the same praise.

Berlioz wrote of this invention, in his book entitled, "A Travers Chants:"

"M. Delsarte has made piano tuning easier by means of an instrument which he calls the phonopticon.
Any one who will take the trouble to use it will find that it produces such absolute correctness,
that the most practiced ear could not attain to similar perfection. This Guide-accord cannot
fail to gain speedy popularity."

On reading these lines, one is tempted to say: Here is an open-hearted writer; one likes this
outburst in regard to a man who was in some sense his brother-artist. But what are we to think
of this critic, when we reflect that in this same book, where he exalts the inventor, he never
seems to remember Delsarte the revealer of a law, the creator of a science, the distinguished
teacher, the famous artist. "He has rendered all pianists a great service by inventing this
instrument," says the author of "A Travers Chants," and that is all. And he calls him Monsieur
Delsarte, as if he were some unknown musical instrument maker or dealer! Had the author of
"William Tell" or "Aida" vexed him, he would have spoken of them as M. Rossini, M. Verdi!

And yet he knew all about the man whom he seemed anxious to extinguish, for it was he who,
in a musical criticism, wrote, among other praises: "It is impossible to imagine superior execution;"
and elsewhere: "He renders the thoughts of the great masters with such brilliancy and strength,
that their masterpieces are made accessible to the most stubborn intellect and the most hardened
sensibilities are roused by his tones."

What had happened to make the author of the "Pilgrims' March" so oblivious of his own admiration?
I have heard that the two musicians quarreled as to the interpretation of a passage by Gluck,
and that a correspondence much resembling a literary warfare, followed. Could this justify
defection? Perhaps a desire to stifle this glory, thereby to lend more lustre to some meteor
or star, had some share in this supposed motive.

At any rate, the affair is not to the honor of Berlioz. We should never deny, whatever may
happen, the just judgment which we have uttered. Direct or indirect, the rivalries of artists
are to be regretted for the sake of art itself, which lives on noble sentiments and high thoughts.
Although we may laugh at the inconsequence of a critic who extinguishes with one hand that
which the other hand brought to light, we cannot repress a deep feeling of sadness when we
see upon what reputation too often depends, and when we ask ourselves how much we are to believe
of the opinions of certain chroniclers.

The fact which I have just quoted is the more surprising, inasmuch as Berlioz often drew his
inspiration from the method of, and from certain modes of expression peculiar to Delsarte.

Chapter XVIII.

Delsarte before the Philotechnic Association.[8]

It was in 1865 that Delsarte was heard in public for the last time. The meeting took place
at the Sorbonne where the lectures of the Philotechnic Society were then given.

I see him before me now with his strong personality, his captivating and persuasive speech,
his mind with its incisive flashes; but a visible melancholy swayed him and was to follow him
through the variety and contrasts of the subjects on his program.

And first, he takes pleasure in proclaiming to all the tale of his mistakes. Still young in
heart and in mind, it seems as if in giving up hope on earth, he tolled the knell of all the
enchantments that were passed and gone; that creative head fermenting with the ardor of discovery
seems to doubt the future and bow beneath the burden of a sombre submission.

And yet he is surrounded by picked men who admire him, by women, young, beautiful, brilliant,
eager to hear him, as of old; but he is not deceived by all this. A magic spell has vanished;
sympathy is not denied him, but perhaps he feels it to be less tender, less affectionate than
in the radiant days of his youth.

This explains how, in the course of that evening, a recrudescence of Christian feeling more
than once tore him away from the undeniable assertions of science, not to drag him down to
the puerilities of the letter, but to draw him up into the clouds of theology, whence hope
of a future life, the consolation of farewell hours, smiled upon him.

But if Delsarte appeared depressed, he was not to be conquered. His restless spirit betrayed
him to those whom his mystic fervor might have misled.

"Many persons," he said, "feel confident that they are to hear me recite or sing.

"Nothing of the sort, gentlemen; I shall not recite, and I shall not sing, because I desire
less to show you what I can do, than to tell you what I know."

Soon a wonderful change passed over him. It seemed as if he had been covered with ashes for
an instant, only to come forth in a more dazzling light. Hardly had his audience felt a slight
sense of revolt at the words: "I shall not sing," than they found themselves in the presence
of an orator not inferior to the greatest in the force of his images, and who, with all his
serious and pathetic eloquence, never forgot the studied touches of the poet, or the dainty
style of the artist.

But I will not delay my reader to listen to me! It is Delsarte himself who should be heard.
I will give a few extracts:

"I count," he said, "on the novelty, the absolute novelty, of the things which I shall teach
you: Art is the subject of this conversation.

"Art is divine in its principle, divine in its essence, divine in its action, divine in its aim.

"Ah! gentlemen, there are no pleasures at once more lasting, more noble and more sacred than
those of Art.

"Let us glance around us: not a pleasure which is not followed by disappointment or satiety;
not a joy which does not entail some trouble; not an affection which does not conceal some
bitterness, some grief, and often some remorse!

"Everything is disappointing to man. Everything about him changes and passes away. Everything
betrays him; even his senses, so closely allied to his being and to which he sacrifices everything,
like faithless servants, betray him in their turn; and, to use an expression now but too familiar,
they go on a strike, and from that strike, gentlemen, they never return.

       *       *       *       *       *

"The constituent elements of the body sooner or later break into open rebellion, and tend to
fly from each other as if filled with mutual horror.

"But under the ashes a youthful soul still lives, and one whose perpetual youth is torture;
for that soul loves, in spite of the disappointments of its hard experience; it loves because
it is young; it loves just because it is a soul and it is its natural condition to love.

"Such is the soul, gentlemen. Well! for this poor, solitary and desolate soul, there are still
unutterable joys; joys not to be measured by all which this world can offer. These joys are
the gift of Art. No one grows old in the realms of Art."

After a pungent criticism of the official teaching of art as hitherto practiced, Delsarte explained
the chief elements of æsthetics. He said:

"Æsthetics, henceforth freed from all conjecture, will be truly established under the strict
forms of a positive science."

But, as in the course of his lecture he had more than once touched the giddy regions of supernaturalism,
this formula seemed a contradiction to certain minds, yet enthusiastic applause greeted the
orator from all parts of the hall.

One paper, L'Union, said in this connection:

     "M. Delsarte is a spontaneous soul, his mind is at once Christian
     and free, his only passion is the proselytism of the Beautiful, and
     this is the charm of his speech....I do not assert that everything
     in it should be of an absolute rigor of philosophy," etc.

The same paper says elsewhere:

     "All these theories are new, original, ingenious, in a word,
     felicitous. Are they undeniably true? What I can affirm is that
     none doubt it who hear the master make various applications of them
     by examples. Delsarte is an irresistible enchanter."

The opposition of principles with which he is reproached, these doubts of the strength of his
logic, will be greatly diminished if this point of view be taken: that Delsarte traced back
an assured science, that he deduced from the faculties of man the hypothesis that these faculties
are contained in essence and in the full power of their development, in an archetype which,
to his mind, is no other than the Divine Trinity. Plato's ideal in æsthetics and in philosophy
was similar although less precise.

There is a saying that Italians "have two souls." In Delsarte there were two distinct types,
the theistic philosopher and the scientist.

Now, the philosopher could give himself up to the study of causes and their finality, that
faculty being allotted to the mental activity; he could even, without giving the scientist
cause for complaint, make, or admit, speculative theories regarding the end and aim of art,
provided that the scientific part of the system was neither denied nor diminished thereby.

And is there not a certain kinship between science and hypothesis which admits of their walking
abreast without conflicting?

Delsarte, as we have seen, rarely left his audience without winning the sympathy of every member
of it. At the meeting of which I speak, he vastly amused his hearers by an anecdote. He doubtless
wished to clear away the clouds caused by that part of his discourse which, by his own confession,
had a good deal of the sermon about it.

I will repeat the tale, a little exaggerated perhaps, but still very piquant, which doubtless
won his pardon for those parts of his speech which might have been for various reasons blamed,
misunderstood or but half understood!

The story was of four professors who, having examined him, had each, in turn, he said, administered
upon his [Delsarte's] cheeks smart slaps to the colleagues by whose advice he had profited
in previous lessons.

The following lines were the subject of the lesson:

    "Nor gold nor greatness make us blest;
    Those two divinities to our prayers can grant
    But goods uncertain and a pleasure insecure."

"The first teacher to whom I turned declared there was but one way to recite them properly,
and this single method, you of course perceive, gentlemen, could be only his own.

"'Those lines,' said he, 'must be recited with breadth, with dignity, with nobleness. Listen!'
Upon which my instructor began to declaim in his most sonorous, most magisterial tones. He
raised his eyes to heaven, rounded his gestures and struck a heroic attitude.

"'Show yourself,' he resumed (after this demonstration), 'by the elevation of your manners,
worthy of the lessons I have given you.'

"'Ah!' I exclaimed, 'at last I possess the noble manner of rendering these fine lines.'

"Next day, having practiced the noble manner to the utmost of my ability, I went to my second
professor, fully persuaded that I should hear nothing but congratulations. Well!... I had hardly
ended the second line, when a shrug of the shoulders accompanied by a terrible burst of laughter,
very mortifying to my noble manner, closed my mouth abruptly.

"'What do you mean by that emphatic tone? What is all this bombastic sermon about? What manners
are these? My friend, you are grotesque. Those lines should be repeated simply, naturally and
with the utmost artlessness. Remember that it is the good La Fontaine who speaks! [accenting
each syllable] the-good-La-Fon-taine--do you hear? There is but one way possible to render
the lines faithfully. Listen to me.'

"Here the professor tapped his snuff-box,--compressed his lips, dropped the corners of his
mouth in an ironical fashion, slightly contracting his eyes, lifting his eyebrows, moving his
head five or six times from right to left, and began the lines in a firm and somewhat nasal tone.

"Ah!" I cried, amazed, 'there is no other way ... what wonderful artlessness, simplicity and
truth to nature!'

"So I set to work upon a new basis, saying to myself: 'Now, at last, I have got the natural
style which fits the spirit of this charming work. I am very curious to know the impression
which I shall make to-morrow on my third teacher.'

"The moment came. I struck an attitude into which I introduced the elliptic expressions shown
to me the day before, and with the confidence inspired in me by a sense of the naturalness
with which I was pervaded, I began:

    "'Nor gold nor great....'

"'Wretch!' cried my third professor. 'What do you mean by that senile manner, that tart voice!
What a Cassandra-like tone! You disgrace those beautiful lines, miserable fellow!'

'"But, sir....'

"'But, but, but. I will drop you from the list of my pupils, if you dare to utter a remark!
You can do very well when you wish! But every now and then you are subject to certain eccentric
flights. You sometimes imitate X---- well enough to be mistaken for him; then you are detestable,
for you change your nature, and I will not permit it. Besides, it is a vulgar type. Stay, you
looked like him just then, and it was hideous.

"'Now, listen, and bear my lesson well in mind: there is but one proper way of reciting those
lines, do you hear? There is but one way, and this is it.'

"Here, my professor took a pensive attitude: then, as if crushed by the weight of some melancholy
memory, he cast slowly around him a look in which the bitterness of a deep disappointment was
painted. He heaved a sigh, raised his eyes to heaven, still keeping his head bent, and began
in a grave, muffled and sustained voice:

    "'Nor gold nor greatness....'

"'See,' said my master, 'with what art I manage to create a pathetic situation out of those
lines! That is what you should imitate!'

"'Ah! my dear master, you are right; that is the only reading worthy of that masterpiece. Heavens,
how beautiful!' I said to myself; 'decidedly, my noble teacher and my natural teacher understood
nothing about this work. What an effect I shall make to-morrow at my fourth professor's class!'

"Alas! a fresh disappointment awaited me at the hands of my fourth master. He was, perhaps,
even more pitiless than the others to all the meanings that I strove to express.

"'Why, my poor boy,' said he, 'where the deuce did you hunt up such meanings?' What a sepulchral
tone! What is the meaning of that cavernous voice? And why that mournful dumb show? Heaven
forgive me! it is melodrama that you offer us! you have done no great thing. You have completely
crippled poor La Fontaine.'

"'Alas! alas!' said I to myself, 'is my dramatic teacher as absurd as the other two?'"

After the three preceding imitations, just as the audience had reached the height of merriment,
the story-teller stopped.

"I will excuse you, gentlemen, from the reasonings of my fourth professor, for I do not wish
to prolong my discourse indefinitely."

If this retreat was an orator's artifice--which may well be,--it was a complete success.

There was a shout: "The fourth! the fourth!"

"Well, gentlemen, the fourth, like the other three, claimed that his was the only correct style:
I made no distinction between verse and prose, thus following the false method recently established
by the Théâtre-Français. To his mind the cadence of the verse and the euphonic charm should
outweigh every other interest. The pauses which I made destroyed its measure. I had no idea
of caesura, my gestures destroyed its harmony, etc., etc. His pedagogic manner had nothing
in common with that of his brethren."

This episode was not a mere witticism on Delsarte's part; he intended it to prove his constant
assertion--and with persistent right,--that previous to his discovery, art, destitute of law
and of science, had had none but chance successes.

Delsarte closed this session by a summary of the law and the science which I have set forth
in this book; but I must say it was at this moment especially that he seemed anxious that his
religious convictions should profit by his artistic wealth; all outside the sphere of rational
demonstration is treated from a lofty standpoint, it is true, and is freed from the commonplaceness
of the letter, but we can recognize none but a poetic and literary merit in it.

It is to this latter period of his existence that many will doubtless try to fasten the synthesis
of this great personality; but if any one wishes to gain an idea of François Delsarte, of his
ability, the extent of his views, the power of his reason, the graces of his mind, his artistic
perfection, it is in his law, in his science, in the memories which his lectures and his concerts
left in the press of the time, that such an one must seek to understand him.

Chapter XIX.

Delsarte's Last Years.

Before concluding these essays, my homage to the innovating spirit, the matchless art, the
sympathetic and generous nature of François Delsarte, I make a final appeal to my memory, and,
first, I invoke afresh the testimony of others.

La Patrie, June 18, 1857, says in an enthusiastic and lengthy article:

"His deep knowledge, his incessant labors, his long and fatiguing studies, have not allowed
his life to pass unnoted; but although great renown, attached in a short space to his name,
has sufficed for the legitimate demands of his pride, it has done nothing, it must be owned,
to provide for the wants which the negligences of genius do not always foresee."

Then, apropos of Gluck and other unappreciated composers of genius, the author of the article,
Franck Marie, goes on:

"With the confidence to which I recently referred, Delsarte has undertaken the reform. Sure
of the success which shall crown his bold undertaking, he began almost unaided, a movement
which was no less than a revolution. Between two snatches from Romagnesi or Blangini, the majestic
pages of Gluck appeared to the surprise of the auditor. The heroes of the great master took
the place of Thyrcis and Colin, the songs of Pergolese and Handel, coming from the inspired
mouth of the virtuoso, at once aroused unknown sensations. Lully and Rameau, rejuvenated in
their turn, surprised by beauties hitherto unsuspected."

Earlier still (in the Presse for December 6, 1840) in an article signed Viscount Charles Delaunay
are these lines:

"We are, to-night, to hear an admirable singer (Delsarte). He is said to be the Talma of music;
he makes the most of Gluck's songs, as Talma made the most of Racine's verses. We must hasten,
for his enthusiastic admirers would never pardon us if we arrived in the middle of the air
from 'Alcestis;' and if all we hear be true, we could never be consoled ourselves, for having
missed half of it."

March 14, 1860, we read in the L'Independance Beige:

"Among the many concerts announced there is one which is privileged to attract the notice of
the dilettanti. We refer to that announced, almost naively, by the two lines: Concert by François
Delsarte, Tuesday, April 4.--Nothing more! These two lines tell everything! Why give a program?
Who is there in the enlightened world who would not be anxious to be present at a concert given
by Delsarte? For, at his concert, he will sing--he who never sings anywhere, at any price.
Observe what I say: never anywhere, at any price, and I do not exaggerate."

This assertion, which shows the indifference of Delsarte to the speculative side of art, is
not without a certain analogy to the fact which follows. At one of his concerts he was to be
aided by one of the great celebrities of the time; Rachel was to recite a scene from some play.

The actress failed to appear. Some few outcries were heard. Delsarte considered this a protest:
"I beg those who are only here to hear Mademoiselle Rachel," said he, "to step to the box-office.
The price of their tickets will be returned." Applause followed these words, and the artist
sang in a way to leave no room for regret.

I quote the following lines from an article published by the "Journal des Villes et des Campagnes"
in reference to a lecture given in the great amphitheatre of the Medical School, March 11, 1867:

"Should I say lecture? It was rather a chat--simple, and wholly free from academic forms. In
somewhat odd, perhaps, but picturesque and original form, M. Delsarte told us healthy and strengthening
truths:--'The misery of luxury devours us, but the truth makes no display; it is modestly bare.'....
'Art may convince by deceit; then it blinds. When it carries conviction by contemplating truth,
it enlightens. Art may persuade by evil; then it hardens. When it persuades by goodness, it
perfects.' These are noble words. Orator, poet, metaphysician, artist, M. Delsarte offers new
horizons to the soul."

The sources whence I draw are not exhausted, but I must pause.

Thus all have hailed him with applause! Save for some few interested critics, without distinction
of opinions, political, religious or philosophical, all differences were silenced by this admirable
harmony of the highest æsthetic faculties: the spirit of justice conquered party spirit.

But whatever may have been said--and whatever may still be said,--those who never heard Delsarte
can never be made to comprehend him: in him, feeling, intellect, physical beauty and beauty
of expression formed a magnificent assemblage of natural gifts and of acquired faculties. In
this distinguished personality nature became art, to prove to us that outside her limits, as
outside the limits of science, arbitrary agreement and the caprices of imagination can create
nothing noble and great, persuasive and touching.

With this artist there was never anything to betray the artificiality of a situation; interpreted
by him, the creation, the invention, became real. 'From his lips a cry never seemed a studied
effect. It was the rending of a bosom. A tear seemed to come straight from the heart; his gesture
was conscious of what it had to teach us; in all these applications "of the sign to the thing,"
there was never an error, never a mistake. It was truth adorned by beauty. In his singing,
roulades became true bursts of laughter or true sobs.

Yes, all these things surpass description.

But what any and every mind may appreciate, is the lovable, loving and generous nature which
invested these transcendant qualities with simplicity, with charm and with life. Delsarte had
a wealth of sentiment which overflowed upon the humble and the outcast, as well as upon those
favored by nature and by fortune. Without the riches which he knew not how to gain, disdainful
as he was of petty and sinuous ways, he was benevolent in spite of his moderate means.

He gave, perhaps, oftener than he accepted payment for them, his time, his knowledge and his
advice to all who needed them. He admitted to his classes pupils whose beautiful voices were
their only wealth, and who could pay him only in hope.

We may say of François Delsarte, that so sympathetic a nature is rarely seen in this world
of ours, where still prevail--tyrants to be destroyed--so much antagonism, jealousy and rivalry.
If some few of the weaknesses natural to poor humanity may be laid to his charge, no one had
a greater right to redemption than he.

He once distressed a fashionable woman by speaking severely to her of one of her friends. She
was much troubled, but out of respect, dared not complain. Delsarte saw tears in her eyes.
He instantly confessed his fault, and acknowledged, with the utmost frankness, that he spoke
from hearsay, and very lightly. He added that this mistake should be a lesson to him, and that
he would think twice before becoming the echo of evil report.

If, touching his science and his art, this master often made assertions which might seem conceited,
aside from those convictions which, to his mind, had the character of orthodoxy, he used forms
of speech of which judges without authority would never have dreamed. I have heard him say:

"I cannot be much of a connoisseur in regard to pianists, for I only like to hear Chopin."

He was always ready to praise the amateurs who came to him for a hearing, even if they were
the pupils of other masters, finding out among all their faults, the little acquirements or
talent which he could from their performance; sure, it is true, to correct them if he afterward
became their instructor.

Honors and fortune seemed within his grasp when he neared his end. America offered him immense
advantages, with a yearly salary of $20,000, to found a conservatory in one of her cities.
A street in Solesmes was named for him. The King of Hanover sent him, as an artist, the Guelph
Cross, and, as a friend, a photograph of himself and family; it was to this prince, the patron
of art, that Delsarte wrote regarding his "Episodes of a Revelator:"

"I am at this moment meditating a book singular for more than one reason, which will be no
less novel in form than in idea.... I know not what fate is in store for this work, or if I
shall succeed in seeing it in print during my lifetime."

He did not realize this dream.

It was at about this same time that Jenny Lind took a long journey to hear him and to consult
him about her art.

At the period of the war of 1870-1871, Delsarte took refuge at Solesmes, his native place.
He left Paris, with his family, Sept. 10, 1870. Already ill, he lived there sad, and crushed
by the misfortunes of his country. Nevertheless, during this stay, he developed various points
in his method, and there his two daughters wrote at his dictation the manuscript, "Episodes
of a Revelator;" his intellect had lost none of its vigor, but his nature was shadowed.

François Delsarte returned to Paris March 10, 1871, after his voluntary exile. He soon yielded
to a painful disease, doubtless regretting that he had not finished his work, but courageous
and submissive.

As far as it lay in my power, my task is done. I have furnished documents for the history of
the arts; I have aroused and tried to fix attention upon that luminous point which was threatened
with oblivion.

Now I call for the aid of all, that the work of memory may be accomplished.

There are still among us many admirers of François Delsarte, many hearts that loved him; a
sort of silent freemasonry has been established between them; when they meet in society, at
the theatre, at concerts, they recognize each other by mutual signs of regret or disappointment.
His name is pronounced, a few words are interchanged.

"Oh! those were happy days. Will his like ever be seen again?"

To these I say: Let us unite to assure him his place in the annals which assert the glories
of the artist and the man of science! Why should we not combine soon to raise a statue on the
modest grave where he lies? Why should we not do for the innovator in the arts what the country
daily does for mechanical inventors and soldiers?

Part Fifth.

The Literary Remains of François Delsarte.

Translated by Abby L. Alger.

Publisher's Note.

Part Fifth contains François Delsarte's own words.

The manuscripts were purchased of Mme. Delsarte with the understanding that they were all she
had of the literary remains of her illustrious husband. They are published by her authorisation.

The reader will probably notice that at times Delsarte talks as if addressing an audience.
This he really did, and some of the manuscripts are headings or draughts of his lectures before
learned societies or of talks at his own private sessions.

These writings are given to the public in the same fragmentary condition that Delsarte left
them in. They were written upon sheets of paper, scraps of paper, doors, chairs, window casements
and other objects. A literal translation has been made, without a word of comment, and without
any attempt at editing them. The aim has been to let Delsarte speak for himself, believing
that the reader would rather have Delsarte's own words even in this disjointed, incomplete
form--mere rough notes--than to have them supplemented, annotated, interpreted and very likely
perverted by another person.

Edgar S. Werner.

Extract from the Last Letter to the King of Hanover

I am at this moment meditating a book, singular for more than one reason, whose form will be
no less novel than its contents. Your majesty will read it, I hope, with interest.

The title of this book is to be: "My Revelatory Episodes, or the History of an Idea Pursued
for Forty Years."

It will be my task to connect and condense into a single narrative all the circumstances of
my life which had as logical consequences the numerous discoveries which it has been granted
me to follow up, discoveries which my daily occupations left me neither time nor ability to
set forth as a whole.

I know not what fate is reserved for this book. I know not whether I shall succeed in seeing
it in print during my lifetime. The minds of men are, in these evil days, so little disposed
to serious ideas, that it seems to me difficult to find a publisher disposed to publish things
so far removed from the productions of the century.

But, however it may be, if I succeed in getting at least some part of my work printed, I crave,
sire, your majesty's permission to offer the dedication to you. This favor I entreat not only
as an honor, but also as an opportunity to pay public homage to all the kindnesses which your
majesty has never ceased to lavish upon me.

François Delsarte.

Episode I.

The subject in question was a scene in the play of the Maris-Garçons. The young officer, whose
part I was studying, met his former landlord after an absence of several years, and as he owed
him some money, he desired to show himself cordial.

"Ah! how are you, papa Dugrand?" he says, on encountering him. This apostrophe is, therefore,
a mixture of surprise, soldierly bluntness and joviality.

At the first words I was stopped short by an almost insurmountable difficulty. This difficulty
was all in my gesture. Do what I would, my manner of accosting papa Dugrand was grotesque;
and all the lessons that were given me on that scene, all the pains I took to profit by those
lessons, effected no change. I paced to and fro, saying and resaying the words: "How are you,
papa Dugrand?" Another scholar in my place would have gone on; but the greater the difficulty
seemed to me, the higher my ardor rose. However, I had my labor for my pains.

"That's not it," said my instructors. Good heavens! I knew that as well as they did; but what
I did not know was why that was not it. It seems that my professors were equally ignorant,
since they could not tell me exactly in what my way differed from theirs.

The specification of that difference would have enlightened me, but all remained, with them
as with me, subject to the uncertain views of a vague instinct.

"Do as I do," they said to me, one after the other.

Zounds! the thing was easier said than done.

"Put more enthusiasm into your greeting to papa Dugrand!"

The greater my enthusiasm, the more laughable was my awkwardness.

"See here; watch my movements carefully!"

"I do watch, but I don't know how to go to work to imitate you; I don't seize the details of
your gesture." (It varied with every repetition.) "I don't understand why your examples, with
which I am satisfied, lead to nothing in me."

"You don't understand! You don't understand! It's very simple! Really, your wits must have
gone wool-gathering, my poor boy, if you are unable to do what I have shown you so many times.
Watch closely now!"

"I am watching, sir, with all my eyes."

"You certainly see that the first thing is to stretch out your arms to your papa Dugrand, since
you are so pleased to see him again!"

I stretched out my arms to their utmost extent; but my body, not following the movement, still
wanted poise, and recoiled into a grotesque attitude. My teacher, for lack of basic principles
to guide him, was unable to correct my awkwardness; and, vexed at his inability which he wished
to conceal, fell back on blaming my unlucky intellect.

"Fool," said he finally, "you are hopelessly stupid! Why are you so embarrassed? Are my examples,
then, worthless?"

"Indeed, sir, your examples are perfect."

"Well, then, imitate them, imbecile!"

"I will try, sir."

In this, as in all preceding lessons, I could give only a blind imitation, which had not the
small merit of being twice alike, even in my own eyes, for every time I reproduced them I observed
marked variations which the master did not perceive.

I went to my room, as I had done many times before, with tears in my eyes and despair in my
heart, to renew my useless efforts, vainly turning and returning in all lights my unfortunate
papa Dugrand.

This cruel ordeal lasted five months without the least progress to lessen its bitterness.

Heaven knows with what ardor I cultivated my papa Dugrand! I thought of him by day, and I dreamed
of him by night. I clung to him with all the frenzy of despair, for I was determined not to
be beaten. I was bound to triumph at any cost, for it was life or death to me. I resolved not
to give up papa Dugrand, even though he should resist me ten years!

My unceasing repetitions of (to them abominable) papa Dugrand caused my comrades to call me
a bore. In short, I became disagreeable to all around me. Alas! all this study, all these efforts,
could not overcome the stubborn resistance of papa Dugrand. My teachers were at their wits'
end, and finally refused to give me another lesson on the subject. But nothing could daunt
the ardor of my zeal.

One day I was measuring the court-yard of the Conservatory, as usual, in company with papa
Dugrand, and repeating my "how are you?" in every variety of tone, when, all at once, having
got as far as: "How are you, pa--," I stopped short without finishing my phrase. It was interrupted
by the sight of a cousin of mine, whose visit was most unexpected.

"Ah! how are you?" I said; "how are you, dear cou--"

Here my words were again interrupted by a surprise; but this surprise was far greater than
that caused by the appearance of my cousin. Struck by the analogy between this greeting and
the unstudied attitude which I had assumed under the action of a genuine emotion, I cried in
a transport of joy which bewildered my innocent cousin: "Leave me--don't disturb me--I've got
it--wait for me--stay where you are--I've got it."

"But what is it that you've got?"

"The dickens, papa Dugrand!"

Thereupon I vanished like a flash, to run to my mirror and reproduce to my sight papa Dugrand,
Judge of my astonishment: not only my gesture, until now so persistently awkward, seemed suddenly
metamorphosed and became harmonious and natural; but, stranger yet, it did not correspond in
the least to what had been prescribed. However, it was nature herself that had revealed this
to me. Then, the movements of my body, but a moment before so discordant in my eyes, had acquired,
under the influence of this gesture inspired from above, an ease and a grace that filled me
with surprise. Without doubt, I now possessed the truth. An emotion, spontaneously produced
and so deeply felt, could not result in an error.

This is what had happened under the action of a natural surprise:

My hands were not extended toward the object of my surprise--not the least in the world. By
an anterior extension of the arms, they were raised high above my head, which, far from being
uplifted with the exultation which I had hitherto simulated, was lowered to my breast; and
my body, stranger yet, instead of bending toward the attractive object, bent suddenly backward.

What a blow nature had given to my masters! What an overthrowal of all conjectures! My reason,
before this sovereign decision, was humbled and dumbfounded. What arguments could my instructors
invoke in the face of truth itself?

"What," thought I, "are my masters absolutely ignorant of the laws of nature?"

"What, does their reason, as well as mine, know nothing of all this? How is it that this much-praised
reason has inspired me with effects precisely opposite to those that were prescribed? What
is reason? Is it, then, a blind faculty?"

Let us first see what these strange phenomena, whose importance I cannot deny without denying
nature herself, signify.

I was in the midst of these reflections when the recollection of my cousin came into my mind.

"Good heavens," thought I; "I had forgotten all about my poor cousin; what will he think? I
will hurry down, and, lest my precious ideas take flight, send him away, and return to my reflections.

"Wretch that I am; I think only how to get rid of him, when he has so enriched me! This is
a lesson to me. Poor boy! What opinion will he have of me? Ah, that is he whom I see stretched
out on that stone bench. He has been patient, indeed. I believe that he is asleep!"

"No, I am not asleep," said he, rising; "I am furious! Explain, if you are not too insane to
be rational, the extraordinary manner in which you received me. Do you know that I have been
waiting here for you more than an hour?"

"Ah, my dear cousin," said I, embracing him warmly, "you do not know what a service you have
rendered me. I embrace you now, my good friend, for the wonderful lesson you have given me.
Without you I should never have found it out, and, rest assured, I shall never forget it."

"What? Who? What is it?"

"Zounds, papa Dugrand! I freely acknowledge that I have learned more from you in one second
than from all my masters during four years."

"Are you in your right senses?"

The matter was finally explained. My cousin then told me about my home and my family; but I
must confess that I paid little attention to the good news that he brought me, so excited and
preöccupied was my mind. Even then I could not help thinking of the fragility of the heart
in its affections. We soon separated, and I hurried to my room, which seemed to me on this
day-paradise itself.

I gave myself up to my interrupted course of reflections.

I had proved the impotence of my own reason, and also that of my masters. Now, as it was not
probable that all my teachers and myself were more stupid than the rest of mankind--the common
herd--I concluded that reason is blind in the matter of principles, and that all her instructions
would be powerless to guide me in my researches. But, from another side, it was evident to
me that without this reason I could not utilize a principle. What is human reason, that faculty
at once of so little avail and yet so precious? What role does it play in art? I feel that
this is most important for me to know.

The answer to this question must spring from the study of the phenomena of instinct. Let us
examine, then, what nature offers us freely.

If these phenomena are directed by a physiological or a spiritual necessity, a necessity on
which instinct is based, I am forced to admit, here, a reason that is not my reason; a superior,
infallible reason in the disposition of things; a reason that laughs at my reason, which, in
spite of itself, must submit under pain of falling into absurdity. I feel that it is only by
this absolute submission of my reason that it can rise to the reason of things, since, of itself,
it would know nothing. [See definition of reason.]

Let us seek, then, without prejudice, the reason of the things that interested me, in order
that my own reason may be raised to a higher plane. And when it shall be illumined with the
light that must break upon it from the superior reason, I feel that my reason can generalize
instruction, and will be all-powerful in arranging the conclusions that it may deduce. I am
aware, from the utter impotence of my reason, that all principles must be accepted humbly,
in order to understand the deductions. My reason does not know how to lead me to principles
of which it is ignorant; but it knows how to guide me back. In other words, it is a blind person
a priori, it is a luminary a posteriori. Though it may not know at first, once shown, it readily
recognizes; though it may not divine, it learns by study; though it may not seize, it retains,
masters and generalizes.

Reason, then, is a reflex power, and as such, if, in a matter of principle, it recognizes itself
as impotent and even absurd a priori, it knows that once in possession of the principle, it
borrows from its light and becomes identified with it--an incomparable power of generalization.

Let the reason of the attitudes that I had observed be once shown me, and my individual reason
would possess the Archimedean lever with which I might open unknown worlds.

My reason! Ah! I will identify it with the reason of things! Henceforward this shall be my
method, this shall be my law.

But the reason of things--who will give it to me? Is it not my reason itself? Oh, mystery!
I will follow thee to the depths of thy abyss. Thou shalt have no more secrets from me, for
God has said that He hides only from the wise and prudent man, but reveals Himself to the simple
and to children. Yes, these things shall be given to me through my reason, if it will bow itself
and be attentive and humble; if it will patiently await the teachings of a mute and persevering
observation; if it will subordinate itself to the intuitive lights that constitute genius;
and, finally, if it knows how to estimate things other than itself.

Thus my reason, established, inflamed, consumed by the charm of its contemplation, will be
transfigured in order to be more closely united to the sovereign reason toward which it ever
reaches out.

The first fruit of my observation consists in making me recognize, in the facts examined, the
proof of a superior and infallible reason, and then to arm against my individual reason and
all its errors. Another thing yet more strange, but easily comprehended on reflection, is that
to this defiance, this contempt of self, I owe the boldness and the power of my investigations.

Let us see, now, from which observations the preceding thoughts are the direct result.

In the phrase, "How are you, etc.," my reason dictated this triple, parallel movement: Advancing
the head, and the arms, with the torso on the fore-leg. Now, the similar phrase, "How are you,
dear cousin," although uttered in a situation identical with that of papa Dugrand, produced
phenomena diametrically opposed to those that my reason had said were the only ones admissible.
Is it not reasonable to suppose that the sight of an agreeable or loved object will excite
in us a genuine feeling that before we had vainly striven to simulate? Does it not seem natural
to extend the hand to a friend when, with affectionate surprise, we exclaim: "How are you,
dear friend?" And should we ever think of drawing the body away from the object that attracts
us? Finally, does it not seem that the head should be raised, the better to see that which
charms us?

Ah, no! All these things, apparently so true and so perfectly clear, are radically false. Facts
prove this beyond a doubt, and with facts there can be on discussion, no argument. We must
admit them a priori or renounce the truth. Here, as in all questions of principle, the greatest
act of reason consists in an act of faith. This is absolutely undeniable.

In the phrase, "How are you, papa Dugrand," the arms should be raised, the head lowered and
the torso thrown back, supporting itself on the back leg. This was indeed a blow to the presumption
of my poor reason, but should it complain? No, for it has gained even from its confusion most
fruitful instruction.

Let us see. In questioning the effects and the analogy, we shall doubtless explain their reason
of being. Why should the head become lowered? I do not see all at first sight; but let us generalize
the question and probably it will specify itself.

When does a man bow his head before the object which strikes his eye?

When he considers or examines it.

Does he never consider things with head raised?

Yes, when he considers them with a feeling of pride. It is thus that he rules them or exalts
them; and also when he questions them with his glance; in fine, when what he sees astonishes
or surprises him.

This last statement contradicts the example in question, and seems to condemn it. Not the least
in the world. How is this? Thus: when the astonishment or the surprise is not intense enough
to shake the frame, the head wherein all the surprise is concentrated, is lifted and exalted.
But so soon as that surprise is great enough to raise the shoulders and the arms, as by a galvanic
shock, the head takes an inverse direction, it sinks and seems anxious to become solid to offer
more resistance to that which might attack it, for the first instinctive movement in such a
case is to guard against any unpleasant event; then if the head is lifted to look at that which
surprises it, it is because it has no great interest in the recognition of that which it considers;
but as soon as that interest commands it to examine, to recognize, it is instantly lowered
and placed in the state of expectation.

O, now it becomes clear.

Now, how does surprise cause us to lift our arms?

The shoulder, in every man who is agitated or moved, rises in exact proportion to the intensity
of his emotion.

It thus becomes the thermometer of the emotions. Now, the commotion that imprints a strong
impression, communicates to the arms an ascending motion which may lift them high above the head.

But why do not the arms, in an agreeable surprise, tend toward the object of that surprise?

The arm should move gently toward the object that it wishes to caress. Under the rapid action
of surprise, therefore, it could only injure or repel that object.

This it does in affright.

But instinct--that marvelous agent of divine reason--in that case turns the arms away from
the object which they might injure by the rapidity of their sudden extension, and directs them
toward heaven, leads them to rise as if expressing thanks for an unexpected joy, so true it
is that everything is turned to use and is modified under the empire of our instinct. Certainly,
there is no similarity between this and the superfluous action, the inconsequent movements
determined by the working of a rule without a reason. And this is so because in all that instinct
suggests, it is the Supreme Artist himself who disposes of us and acts in us, while whatever
is suggested by a reason insufficiently inspired by the contemplation of the divine handiwork
is fatally incoherent, for we thus pretend to substitute ourselves for God, and God thenceforth
leaving us to ourselves, surrenders us to all the discordant effects of an inconsequential
and vain conception.

It remains to find the justificatory reason for this retroactive movement of the body, which
seems illogical at first sight.

Let us inquire in what case and under the action of what emotions a man may shrink from the
object which he is considering.

In the first place, he shrinks back whenever it inspires him with a feeling of repulsion. He
shrinks from it particularly when it inspires him with fright. This is a matter of course and
self-evident.

In what case does the body take an inverse direction to the object which attracts it? This
we must know before we can explain the phenomenon in question.

We move away from the thing which we contemplate to prove to it, doubtless, the respect and
veneration that it inspires. In fact, it seems a lack of respect to that which we love to approach
it too closely; we move away that we may not profane it by a contact which it seems might injure
its purity.

Thus the retrograde movement may be the sign of reverence and salutation, and moreover a token
that the object before which it is produced is more eminent and more worthy of veneration.

A salutation without moving shows but little reverence, and should only occur in the case of
an equal or an inferior.

In justification of the actual fact, let me give another observation of quite another importance.

When a painter examines his work, he moves away from it perceptibly. He moves away in proportion
to the degree of his admiration of it, so that the retroactive movement of his body is in equal
ratio to the interest that he feels in contemplating his work, whence it follows that the painter
who examines his work in any other way, reveals his indifference to it.

The picture-dealer usually proceeds in quite another manner. He examines it closely and with
a magnifying-glass in hand. Why is this? Because it is less the picture which he examines than
the handiwork of the painter, the actual work which is the chief object of his survey.

But why does the artist move away from the work which he contemplates? The better to seize
the total impression. For instance: if it be a full length portrait and the artist studies
it too closely he sees, I will suppose, the nose of his portrait and nothing more. If he moves
a little farther off he sees a little more, he sees the head; still farther and he sees both
the head and the torso which supports it. Finally, moving still farther away, he gets a view
of the whole and thus seizes its harmonious relations. This inspection may be called synthetic
vision, and in opposition to this, direct vision, which I assumed before instinct taught me
better, is but short and limited.

To sum up: If instinct did not lead us to retroact, to examine an object unexpectedly offered
to our gaze, each surprise would expose us to error.

Now we must retroact to see an object as a whole and not expose ourselves to error, and then,
too, does not the love which a creature inspires within us naturally extend to the medium which
surrounds him, and in this way does it not seem as if all that touched him partook of his life
and thus acquired some title to our contemplation?

Thus my mind, tortured by one preoccupying thought, had, thanks to the fixed idea which swayed
it, found wondrous lessons in the simple incident of my cousin's return, otherwise so devoid
of interest; and I may truly say that the lesson learned from meeting my cousin taught me more
than all those I had received in the space of three years. In short, I had learned how vain
is advice dictated by the caprice of a master without a system! I had learned the inanity of
individual reason in a matter of experience. I knew that certain laws existed, that those laws
proceeded from a Supreme Reason, an immense centre of light, of which each man's reason is
but a single ray. I knew without a doubt how ignorant my masters were of those laws to the
study of which I meant to devote my life. I possessed facts which I saw could be applied in
countless ways, luminous doctrines radiating from the application.

Thenceforth I had the nucleus of the science I had so vainly asked of my masters, and I did
not despair of formulating it.

Judge of my joy! The facts I then found myself the possessor of, seemed to me more valuable
than all the treasures of the world.

Episode II.

Some time later, I again saw my worthy cousin, the innocent cause of all my joys. He was a
medical student, and came to propose a visit to the dissecting-room. I did not hesitate to
accept; the proposal harmonized with my desire.

I did not go, as so many go to the morgue, merely to see dead bodies. No; the curiosity that
impelled me, and the avidity with which I pursued the object of my study, was not to be so
easily satisfied.

Dead bodies only attracted me when they were--if not dissected--at least flayed. Children break
their dolls to see what there is inside; so I, too, wanted to see what there was in a corpse.
It seemed to me that under the mutilations which the scalpel had inflicted on the body, I should
find the answer to more than one enigma--might solve some of the secrets of life.

The prospect of this visit had the charm of a pleasure party to me. I made it a holiday and
awaited the hour with impatience.

But, on arriving, when I found myself in that place chill and gloomy as the tomb; when I felt
choked by the mephitic gases that arose from this seat of infection; when I found myself in
the presence of a heap of corpses mutilated by the scalpel, disfigured by putrefaction and
partially devoured by rats and worms; when, beneath tables laden with these horrible remains,
I saw mean tubs filled with human entrails mingled with limbs and heads severed from their
trunks; when I felt fragments of flesh reduced to the state of filthy mud, clinging to my feet,
my heart throbbed violently, and I was overcome by an indescribable sense of repulsion.

"What," I said to myself, "those shapeless and putrifying masses have lived! They have thought,
they have loved! And, who would believe it from the horror and disgust that they inspire, they
have been loved, cherished, perhaps adored! Ah! if, as some think, the soul is not immortal,
if so many aspirations, so many schemes, so many hopes are to end here--what is man?"

But yet more lamentable food for thought was reserved for me: the spectacle of a ruin yet more
profound than those which my eyes could scarce endure, was to appear before me in all its hideousness.

In fact, there reigns in these gloomy halls where no tear has ever fallen, no prayer has ever
been heard and no ray of hope has ever pierced--there reigns something yet colder than death,
something more unwholesome, more nauseous, more deleterious than the putrid miasmas that infect
the air, something more sad to see than the nameless fragments of extinct life, something more
loathsome than those filthy and disgusting remnants, something more repulsive than those noses
eaten by worms and those empty eyeballs devoured by rats. I mean the cynicism of the dwellers
in that place; I mean their insensibility, their indifference and calm heedlessness in the
presence of such grave subjects for thought. I mean that lack of perception, that spirit of
negation and revolt of which those wretched men make a boast and which they obstinately oppose
to all religious sentiment, all principle of tradition or revealed authority. I mean the atheism
and ceaseless mockery with which they invariably meet any generous impulse aroused in an honest
soul by a healthy faith.

This struck me even more sensibly than the spectacle of death and dissolution which I have
striven to describe. Thus the apparently living men who haunt this spot are more truly dead
than the corpses upon which they exercise their pretended science. They seemed to me ruins
far more terrible than those of the body, ruins which repelled all hope, being born of doubt
and leading to negation.

If the mutilated and half-devoured bodies that lay before me, filled me with horror and disgust,
they, at least, left within me a faint lingering hope surviving death; but the state of blindness
of those souls who have lost consciousness of their being and even the feeling of their existence,
the shadowy abyss into which they allow themselves complaisantly to glide, the nullity which
they adorn with the title of science,--all this filled me with fright, for I felt the doubt
and despair into which contact with it would inevitably have plunged me, if, by a special favor,
the tone and mimetics, alike self-sufficient and mocking, of these free-thinkers, as they are
now styled, had not, from the first, inspired me with aversion for them and a salutary hatred
of their doctrine.

And yet, amidst so many repulsive objects, the faculty of observation to which I already owed
such fruitful remarks was not dormant in me: I had already asked myself by what evident sign
one could recognize a recent corpse.

From this point of view, I made a rapid exploration, and I questioned the various corpses left
almost intact; I sought in some portion of the body, common to all, a form or a sign invariably
found in all.

The hand furnished me that sign and responded fully to my question.

I noticed, in fact, that in all these corpses the thumb exhibited a singular attitude--that
of adduction or attraction inward, which I had never noted either in persons waking or sleeping.

This was a flash of light to me. To be yet more sure of my discovery, I examined a number of
arms severed from the trunk; they showed the same tendency. I even saw hands severed from the
forearm; and, in spite of this severing of the flexor muscles, the thumb still revealed this
same sign. Such persistence in the same fact could not allow of the shadow of a doubt: I possessed
the sign-language of death, the semeiotics of the dead.

I rejoiced, foreseeing the service which this discovery would render upon a battle-field, for
instance, where more than one man risks being buried alive. I divined, moreover, something
of its artistic importance.

I then questioned my cousin and the other students present in regard to the symptomatics of
death, and I saw with surprise that, not only had the expression of this phenomenon escaped
them hitherto, but that they had no exact and precise knowledge concerning this grave and important
question.

There remained, in order to complete my discovery and to deduce useful results from it, to
verify the symptom on the dying man. It was important for me to know in what degree it might
become manifest on the approach of death.

My wishes were gratified as if by magic, for I was led from the school of anatomy to that of
clinical medicine. There a house-student, a friend of my cousin, placed me beside a dying patient,
and I examined with the utmost attention the hands of the unhappy man struggling against the
clutches of inevitable death.

At first I observed something strange in regard to myself, namely that the emotion which such
a sight would have caused me under any other circumstances, was absolutely null at this moment;
close attention dulled all feeling in me. I then understood the courage which may inspire the
surgeon in the discharge of his duty; and I drew from this observation deductions of great
artistic interest.

Now I proved that the thumbs of the dying man contracted at first in almost imperceptible degree;
but as the last struggle drew near, and in the supreme efforts made by the patient to hold
fast to the life which was slipping from him, I saw all his fingers convulsively directed toward
the palm of the hand, thus hiding the thumbs which had previously approached that centre of
convergence. Death speedily followed this crisis and soon restored to the fingers a more normal
position; but the contraction of the thumb persistently conformed to my previous observations.
The presence and progress of this phenomenon in the dying was invariably confirmed by numerous
tests which I afterward tried.

Thus, I had acquired the proof that, not only does the total adduction of the thumb characterize
death, but that this phenomenon indicates the approach of death in proportion to its intensity.
I, therefore, possessed the fundamental principle of a system of semeiotics hitherto unknown
to physiologists; but this principle, already so full of interest, must be made profitable to art.

A multitude of pictures, which in former times I had admired at the museum, passed before my
mind's eye. I recalled battle-scenes where the dying and the dead are represented; descents
from the cross where Christ is necessarily represented as dead. The idea struck me that I would
go and verify the action of the thumb in these various representations which the painter's
fancy has given us of death.

It was on a Sunday. The Louvre was on my way to the Conservatory, where, as is well known,
I lived as pensioner.

I had often traversed the galleries of the Louvre; but now I was armed with a criterion that
would give my criticisms indisputable authority.

The ignorance of the fact I sought, even among artists of renown, was not long in being made
apparent: all those hands, where they thought they had depicted death, afforded me nothing
but the characteristics of a more or less peaceful sleep. The correctness of my criticism may
be verified anywhere.

Thus, the mere discovery of a law sufficed to elevate a poor boy of fifteen years, destitute
of all science and deploring the deep ignorance in which he had hitherto been left, to the
height of an infallible critic in whom the greatest artists found no mercy. I then understood
all the power, all the fertility given by an acquaintance with the laws that regulate the nature
of man, and in how much even genius itself may be rendered sterile by ignorance of those laws
which simple observation would make them acquainted with. But, I thought, my discovery is not
complete, for if, thanks to it, I have succeeded in proving that all these pictures of death
are false, true only as representing sleep, it is, on the other hand, impossible for me to
prove in how far those figures live, in which the painter aims to represent life. I must, therefore,
seek the sign of life to complete my standard of criticism.

Suddenly, struck with amazement by the dazzling rays of unexpected light, I asked myself whether
the criterion of death would not reveal to me, by the law of contraries, the thermometer of
life. It should a priori--it does!

Still I felt that it was not here that I might be permitted to contemplate the vital phenomena
attached to the thumb: since death was so badly rendered here, I had strong reasons for thinking
that life was no better treated.

I left the museum, then, where I had nothing more to learn; and, to observe living mimetics
of the thumb, I went out on the promenade of the Tuileries thronged by aristocratic people.
I carefully examined the hands of this crowd, but I was not long in discovering that these
elegant idlers had nothing good to offer. "This class," I said to myself, "is false from head
to foot. They live an artificial, unnatural life. I see in them only artifice, or an art dishonored
by using it to mask their insincerity and artificiality."

The happy idea came to me to mingle with mothers, children and nurses.

"Ah," said I, "in the midst of this throng, laughing and crying at the same time--singing,
shouting, gesticulating, jumping, dancing--here is life! If the contemplation of this turbulent
and affectionate little world does not instruct me, where shall I find the solution I seek?"

I did not have to wait long for this solution.

I noticed nurses who were distracted and indifferent to the children under their charge; in
these the thumb was invariably drawn toward the fingers, thus offering some resemblance to
the adduction which it manifests in death. With other nurses, more affectionate, the fingers
of the hand that held the child were visibly parted, displaying a thumb bent outward; but this
eccentration rose to still more startling proportion in those mothers whom I saw each carrying
her own child; there the thumb was bent violently outward, as if to embrace and clasp a beloved
being.

Thus I was not slow to recognize that the contraction of the thumb is inversely proportionate,
its extension directly proportionate to the affectional exaltation of the life. "No doubt,"
I said to myself, "the thumb is the thermometer of life in its extending progression as it
is of death in its contracting progression."

Countless examples have confirmed this. I could even, on the spot, form an idea of the degree
of affection felt for the children entrusted to their care, by the women who passed before my eyes.

Sometimes I would say: "There is a servile creature whose heart is dead to that poor child
whom she carries like an inert mass; the position of the thumb drawn toward the fingers renders
that indifference evident," Again it was a woman in whom the sources of life swelled high at
the contact with the dear treasure which she clasped; that woman was surely the mother of the
child she carried, the excessive opening of her thumb left no room for doubt.

Thus my diagnostics were invariably confirmed by exact information, and I could see to what
extent the remarks which I had recorded, were justified. I drew from them most interesting
applications for my special course of study.

Thus, suppose I had asked the same service from three men, and that each had answered me with
the single word yes, accompanied by a gesture of the hand. If one of them had let his thumb
approach the forefinger, it is plain to me that he would deceive me, for his thumb thus placed
tells me that he is dead to my proposition.

If I observe in the second a slight abduction of the thumb, I must believe that he, although
indisposed to oblige me, will still do so from submission.

But if the third abducts his thumb forcibly from the other fingers, oh! I can count on him,
he will not deceive me! The abduction of his thumb tells me more in regard to his loyalty than
all the assurances which he might give me.

Behold, then, an intuition whose correctness the experience of forty years has not contradicted.

It is hard to imagine the joy I felt at my discovery produced and verified in a single day
by so many examples, differing so greatly one from another and of such diverse interest.

All the emotions of this extraordinary and fertile day had so over-excited my imagination that
I had great difficulty in calming my poor brain, and far from being able to enjoy the rest
which I so much needed, I was a prey to wakefulness in which the turmoil of my ideas at one
time made me fear that I was going mad. I then felt for the first time the frailty of the instrument
of thought in regard to the faculty which rules and governs it.

In brief, I was--thanks to my double discovery--in possession of a law whose deductions ought
to touch the loftiest questions of science and art,--and I was enabled thenceforth to affirm
upon strong and irrefragable proof that the thumb, in its double sphere of action, is the thermometer
of life as well as of death.

Episode III.

The day after that which had been so fruitful both in emotions and discoveries, a thousand
recollections tumultuously besieged my mind and still disturbed me. I saw that if I could not
contrive to classify them in strict order of succession, I should never be able to derive any
practical value from them. I therefore took up link by link the chain of events of the previous
day, but in inverse order. That is, I began my course where I left off the day before, and
thus proceeded toward the Tuileries to end at the Medical School.

At the retrospective sight of all that merry, noisy little world, of all those fat, cheerful
nurses, careless and laughing as they were, of those mothers each so tenderly expansive in
contemplation of her child, so happy in its health and strength, so joyous and so proud of
its small progress, the recollection of a phenomenon which I had not at first observed struck
me with all the force of a vivid actuality.

I should say, by the way, that it is much more to the strength of my memory than to the present
observation of facts, that I owe these remarks. Stability is the sine qua non of the things
one proposes to examine, and the memory must possess the singular power of communicating fixity
to fugitive things, permanence to instantaneousness, and actuality to the past.

Now, the phenomena of life occurring with the rapidity of lightning can only be studied retrospectively;
that is to say, in the domain of memory, except to be verified if the attention, free from
all other preöccupation, allows us to seize them on the wing once more. The remark suggested
to me by memory seemed all the more interesting because it formed in a new order of facts a
flagrant opposition to the opinion formulated by my masters under the title of theory. Thus
nature once more proved to me that the only point in which I had found them to agree, rested
upon a fundamental error. I have since recognized that it is thus in the majority of cases,
so that one may almost certainly pronounce erroneous any statement in regard to which all the
masters of art agree.

This proposition at first seems inexplicable, but its reason is readily understood by those
who know the sway of falsehood over a society perverted in its opinions as in its tastes; to
those who know the deplorable facility with which error is spread and the tenacity with which
it clings to our poor mind. Error, moreover, owes to our abasement which it flatters and crushes,
the privilege of freedom from contradiction, and it is only in regard to truth that the minds
of men are divided and contend.

On retracing in my memory the walks I had taken in the Tuileries, I was struck by an important
fact amidst the phenomena called up: the voice of the nurse or mother, when she caressed her
child, invariably assumed the double character of tenuity and acuteness. It was in a voice
equally sweet and high-pitched that she uttered such words as these: "How lovely he is!" ...
"Smile a little bit for mamma!" Now this caressing intonation, impressed by nature upon the
upper notes of all these voices, forms a strange contrast to the direction which all singing-teachers
agree in formulating; a direction which consists in augmenting the intensity of the sound in
direct ratio to its acuteness. Thus, to them, strange to say, the entire law of vocal shades
would consist in augmenting progressively the sound of the ascending phrase or scale, and diminishing
in the same proportion for a descending scale. Now, nature, by a thousand irrefutable examples,
directs us to do the contrary, that is, she prescribes a decrease of intensity (in music, decrescendo)
proportionate to the ascensional force of the sounds.

Another blow, I thought, for my masters, or rather I receive it for them, for they, poor fellows,
do not feel it. But how can these phenomena of nature have escaped them, and by what indescribable
aberration can they direct, under the name of law, a process absolutely contrary to that so
plainly followed by those same phenomena? However, I added, every supreme error under penalty
of being self-evident, must, to endure, necessarily rest upon some truth or other. Now, on
what truth do so many masters claim to base so manifest an error? This is what we must discover.

I was now convinced that caressing, tender and gentle emotions find their normal expression
in high notes. This is beyond all doubt. Thus, according to the foregoing examples, if we propose
to say to a child in a caressing tone that he is a darling, it would clearly be very bad taste
to bellow the words at him on the pretext that, according to singing-teachers, the intensity
of the sound is augmented in direct ratio to its acuteness.

But my memory, as if to confirm this principle, and to show its contrast with the custom admitted
by those gentlemen, suggests to me other instances derived from the same source. Let a mother
be angry with her child and threaten him with punishment; she instantly assumes a grave tone
which she strives to render powerful and intense. Here, then, on the one hand (and nature proclaims
it), the voice decreases in intensity in proportion as it rises higher; and, on the other hand,
it increases in proportion as it sinks. This double fact, undeniably established, constitutes
an unanswerable argument against the system in question. But it is not, therefore, necessarily
its radical and absolute refutation. No, doubtless, whatever may be the significance and the
number of the facts opposed to the directions of those gentlemen, these facts do not seem to
exclude exceptions upon which they may be founded. In fact, I find in my memory many examples
favorable to those masters. Thus, I have seen many nurses lose their temper and still use the
higher tones of their voice; and, on the other hand, I also remark (and the remark is important)
a certain form, the appellative form, where all the characters agree without exception in producing
the greatest intensity possible upon the high notes.

The professors of singing triumph, for they find in this appellative form, always and necessarily
sharp and boisterous at the same time, a striking confirmation of their system. Here I seem
to stray far from the solution which I thought I already grasped! Far from it; the light is
breaking. Hitherto the examples evoked had only increased my obscurity by their multiplicity,
and I saw nothing in all these remarks but a series of contradictions whence it seemed impossible
to deduce anything but confusion, into which I found myself plunged.

But was this confusion really in the facts which I examined, or was it not rather the creation
of my own mind? Now, in the matter of principle, the weakness of individual reason has been
too often proved to me to allow of my attaching any other cause to the contradictions which
block my path and force me to confess my ignorance. I will not, then, here cry mea culpa for
myself or for others to justify that ignorance or excuse its confession. It must be acknowledged
that God knows what He does, and His omnipotence is assuredly guiltless of the divagations
which an impotent mind finds it convenient to attribute to it.

Now, let others in the blindness of proud reason, forget this truth, which they contest even
by opposing to it the quibbles for which free-thinkers are never at a loss, and to escape the
confusion which they inevitably derive from the ill-studied work of the Supreme Artist. Let
them venture to attribute to it their own darkness. For my part, I shall not thereby lose my
conviction that all which seems to me disordered or contradictory in the expression of the
facts which I question, is only apparent and only exist in my own brain.

The profound obscurity into which light plunges us does not prevent the light from being; and
the chaos of ideas which, most generally, results from our examination of things, proves nothing
against the harmonies of their constitution.

The pebble virtually contains the spark, but we must know how to produce it. Thus the phenomena
of nature contain luminous lessons, but we must know how to make them speak; and, what is more,
understand their language. Now, I would add, the spirit of God is inherent in all things; and
this spirit should, at a given moment, flash its splendors in the eyes of an intellect alike
submissive, attentive, patient and suppliant.

Moreover, does not the Gospel show us the way to fertilize investigations such as those to
which I have given my life? Does it not say: "Knock and it shall be opened, ask and it shall
be given?" Then what must I do to find my way out of the maze in which my reason wanders? What
must I do in presence of the contradictions which nevertheless must needs contain a fecund
principle? Finally, what must I do in order to see light break from the very heart of those
obscurities wherein light is lost?

I will seek anew, night and day, if needful; I will knock incessantly at the door of the facts
which I desire to examine. I will descend into the secret depths of their organism; there I
will patiently question every phenomenon, every organ, and I will entreat their Author to divulge
to me their purpose, their relations and their very object.

Well! It is thus that those men, proud of their vain knowledge, were made dizzy by the splendor
of that same light which they thought that they could subject to their investigations, and
the blindness which has fallen upon them is the punishment which God is content to inflict
upon them in this world.

Having said this, where was I in my investigations? Ah! it was here.

The memory of the high inflections invariably affected by the women whom I had seen on the
previous day, caressing their infants, struck me with the more force that I had learned from
my masters that law which had hitherto ruled uncontested, and now underwent a refutation which
demonstrated the falsity of its applications with a clearness and minuteness which left no
room for doubt.

The examples in virtue of which I saw the errors of my masters, unanimously proclaimed the
tenuity of the voice to be in proportion to its acuteness.

Now this formula is, in letter as in spirit, the reverse of the prescription upon which, by
a caprice whose cause I have just explained, all the masters of art agree.

I then perceived that my first affirmations were no better founded than those of the masters,
whose theories I had attacked. The truth of the matter is that ascending progressions may arise
from opposite shades of meaning. "Therefore," said I to myself, "it is equally inadmissible
to exclude either affirmation."

The law is necessarily complex: let us bring together, that we may seize them as a whole, both
the contrary expressions and the circumstances which produce them.

Vulgar and uncultured people, as well as children, seem to act in regard to an ascensional
vocal progression in an inverse sense to well-educated, or, at any rate, affectionate persons,
such as mothers, fond nurses, etc.

No example has, to my knowledge, contradicted this remark.

But why this difference? What are its motive causes?

"Ha!" I cried, as if struck by lightning, "I've found the law! As with the movements of the
head, sensuality and tenderness, these shades of the voice may be traced back to two distinct
sources: sentiment and passion. It is sentiment which I have seen revealed in mothers; it is
passion which we find in uncultured persons."

Sentiment and passion, then, proceed in an inverse way. Passion strengthens the voice in proportion
as it rises, and sentiment, on the contrary, softens it in due ratio to its intensity. It was
the confusion of these different sources which caused a momentary obscurity in my understanding.

Let us now formulate boldly the law of vocal proportions.

Given a rising form, such as the ascending scale, there will be intensitive progression when
this form should express passion (whether impulse, excitement or vehemence).

There will be, on the other hand, a diminution of intensity where this same form should express
sentiment.

This law even seems regulated by a quantitative expression, the form of which appeared to me
like a flash of light. This is the formula:

Under the influence of sentiment the smallest and most insignificant things that we may wish
to represent proportion themselves to the degree of acuteness of the sounds, which become softened
in proportion as they rise.

Under the influence of passion, on the contrary, the voice rises, with a corresponding brilliancy,
in proportion to the magnitude of the thing it would express, and becomes lowered to express
smallness or meanness. Thus an ascending scale being given, it must be considered as a double
scale of proportion, agreeing alternately with an increasing or decreasing intensitive progression,
increasing under the influence of passion and decreasing under the influence of sentiment.

Thus we would not use the same tones for the words: "Oh, what a pretty little girl!" "What
a lovely little flower!" and: "See that nice, fat peasant woman!" "What a comfortable great house!"

By such formulæ as these I was able to sum up, in clear and didactic form, the multifarious
examples suggested by my memory, startled at first by their contradiction and then delighted
at the light thrown upon them by these very formulæ, due, not to my own merit, but to the favor
of Him who holds in His hand the source of all truth.

Thus, I feel and readily acknowledge, that the discovery upon which I am at work is not my
own work; and, therefore, I pray for it as for a signal favor. Nor can it be otherwise with
any man. It is, therefore, always an impertinence for any man to attribute to his personal
genius, vast as he may suppose it to be, the discovery of any law. God alone discloses His
treasures, and, as I have experienced, He only reveals them to the eye of reason raised by
humility to contemplation.

Man seeks that which he desires to know with attention and patience proportioned to the ardor
of his desire. The attention of which his mind is capable and the constancy of will brought
to bear in pursuit of his research, constitute his only mark of distinction. Herein lies all
the merit to which he can lay just claim. But at a moment absolutely unforeseen, God reveals
to him that which he seeks, I should say that for which he does not seek, and for his due edification
it is generally the opposite of what he seeks which is revealed to him. This is not to be contested.
Thus the things discovered to him cause him such surprise that he never fails to beat his brow
when he sees them, as if to prove that he is not the author of their discovery, and that he
was far from foreseeing anything like what has been shown to him; and that there may be no
possible mistake in the interpretation of the gesture, he invariably accompanies it by the
phrase: "What a fool I am!" All will admit that if a man really believed himself the author
of his discovery, he takes a very inopportune time to declare his impotence and his stupidity
so distinctly. But taking none too kindly his avowal which, moreover, is but the proclamation
of an indisputable truth, let us rather say that this act of humility is forced from him by
the greatness of his surprise.

Happy, very happy is the man whose pride does not instantly react against the humble and truthful
confession of his folly.

Ever since I made these remarks I have asked myself the cause of the sterility of the learned
bodies, and I do not hesitate to say to-day, that it is because scientists refuse to declare
themselves fools, and it is to this lack of sincerity that they doubtless owe the punishment
that paralyzes their genius.

How can these men fail to take seriously the little knowledge to which they cling and their
fortune and renown; how can these wise men, to whom the world pays incessant homage, consent
meekly to confess the infirmity of their reason? They feign, on the contrary, even when crushed
beneath the Divine splendor, an air of great importance; and when the Omnipotent in His mercy
deigns to bend to their low level, to lay open to them the treasures of His sovereign thought,
do you think that in token of the sacred and respectful admiration which they owe in return
for such goodness, they will prostrate themselves like the Seraphim whose knowledge assuredly
equals the few notions which they adorn with that title? Ah! far from it. You little know these
scientists, when you impute to them an act which they would qualify as contemptible and would
declare unworthy of a free-thinker! They stand erect, on the contrary, with head held high,
insolently laying claim, by virtue of I know not what conquest of the human mind, to judge
the eternal and immovable light of the Divine Reason.

Episode IV.

My retrospective journey from this point of departure seemed destined to be even more full
of observations than that which preceded it. My day had been so full of work, so fruitful in
unexpected discoveries, that it was absolutely necessary for me to stop at this first station.

After a few days of rest I naturally resumed my walk, toward the garden of the Tuileries, whither
I was led by an instinct full of promise. There, in fact, fresh re-appearances were not long
in adding light to that with which I was still dazzled!

I remember that I had been vaguely struck by the contemplative attitude of a mother toward
her child. The reason why this attitude struck me even in the midst of my absorption in search
of notes relative to the thumb, was, first, because this attitude was a contrast to that assumed
by most of the nurses under the action of the same feeling; and, in the next place, it seemed
to deny the contemplative forms which I had deduced from my first discovery, and which rested
upon such motives as the following: That a painter admires his work by throwing back his head.
Hitherto it had seemed to me clearly proven that admiring contemplation entailed this retroaction.
I considered this, it will be remembered, the characteristic feature of a law, and that for
the reasons which I had previously given. Well! were all these reasons, plausible as they appeared,
to be contradicted by a single fact still present to my memory, in spite of the observations
in the midst of which it arose, and which, moreover, should have been more than enough to efface
it? Strange to say, this fact vaguely noted amidst preöccupations to which it seemed absolutely
foreign, had remained persistently in my mind! Now this fact, becoming by a reflex act the
object of serious thought, resulted from this observation:

That a woman, as she contemplated her child, bent her head toward it.

Searching in my memory, I found several similar instances completely confirming this principle,
opposed to my observations, that contemplation tends to push the head toward the object contemplated.

And yet this example does not affect those to which I had at first paid exclusive heed. Here,
as in the preceding remarks, the law is complex, and it must first be recognized that contemplation
or simple admiration is produced alike by the retreat or advance of the head. This double action
being admitted, it remained to decide how far they might be mingled in a single situation;
that is to say, to what point these two inverse inclinations might be produced indifferently;
and if, as I must a priori suppose, these inclinations recognized two distinct causes. If so,
what were those reasons? The question was not easy of solution, and yet it must be decided
definitely. I could enjoy no peace until I had answered it. The doubt instilled into my mind
by this new contradiction was intolerable. I set boldly to work, determined not to pause until
I had found a final solution. I called to mind all my memories having any bearing on this double
phenomenon. These memories were far more numerous and far more striking than I had dared to
hope. What a magnificent thing are those mysterious reservoirs whence, at a given moment, flow
thousands of pictures which until then we knew not that we possessed? A whole world of prostrate
believers adoringly turning their heads toward the object of their worship, appeared before
me to support the example afforded me by the mother lovingly bending her head toward the child
at which she gazed.

Among other instances, I saw a venerable master affectionately bending his head toward the
being to whom he thus seemed with touching predilection to give luminous instructions.

I saw lovers gazing at their loved one with this attractive pose of the head, their tenderness
seeming thus to be eloquently affirmed. But, side by side with these examples, I saw others
totally opposite; thus, other lovers presented themselves to my mind's eye with very different
aspect, and their number seemed far greater than that of the other. These lovers delighted
to gaze at their sweetheart as painters study their work, with head thrown back. I saw mothers
and many nurses gazing at children with this same retroactive movement which stamped their
gaze with a certain expression of satisfied pride, generally to be noted in those who carried
a nursling distinguished for its beauty or the elegance of its clothes.

Two words, as important as they are opposite in the sense that they determine, are disengaged:
sensuality and tenderness.

Such are the sources to which we must refer the attitudes assumed by the head on sight of the
object considered.

Between these inverse attitudes a third should naturally be placed. It was easy for me to characterize
this latter: I called it colorless or indifferent.

It is entirely natural that the man who considers an object from the point of view of the mere
examination which his mind makes of it, should simply look it in the face until that object
had aroused the innermost movements of the soul or of the life.

Whence it invariably follows that from the incitement of these movements, the head is bent
to the side of the soul or to the side of the senses.

"Which is, then, for the head, the side of the soul," you will ask me, "and which the side
of the senses?"

I will reply simply, to cut short the useless description of the many drawbacks that preceded
the clear demonstration that I finally established, that the side of the heart is the objective
side that occupies the interlocutor, and that the side of the senses is the subjective, personal
side toward which the head retroacts; that is to say, the side opposed to the object under
examination. Thus, when the head moves in an inverse direction from the object that it examines,
it is from a selfish standpoint; and when the examiner bends toward the object it is in contempt
of self that the object is viewed.

These are the two related looks that I have named Sensuality and Tenderness, for these reasons:

The former of these glances is addressed exclusively to the form of its object; it caresses
the periphery of it, and, the better to appreciate its totality, moves away from it. This is
what occurs in the retroactive attitude of the head.

The other look, on the contrary, aims at the heart of things without pausing on the surface,
disdaining all that is external. It strives to penetrate the object to its very essence, as
if to unite itself more closely within it; it has the expression of confidence, of faith--in
a word, the giving up of self.

Thus, when a man presses a woman's hand, we may affirm one of three things from the attitude
which his head assumes:

1. That he does not love her, if his head remains straight or simply bent in facing her.

2. That he loves her tenderly, if he bows his head obliquely toward her.

3. Finally, that he loves her sensually--that is to say, solely for her physical qualities--if,
on looking at her, he moves his head toward the shoulder which is opposite her.

Such are, in brief, the three attitudes of the head and the eyes, which I have named colorless,
affectional, sensual.

Henceforth I possessed completely the law of the inclinations of the head, a law which derives
from its very complexity the fertility of its applications.

Episode V.

Semeiotics of The Shoulder.

When I found myself the possessor of this law whose triple formula is of a nature to defy every
objection, I sought to appropriate to myself, before the mirror, all its applications.

But there arose yet another difficulty that I had not foreseen.

I, indeed, reproduced, and at the proper time, the movements of the head already described,
but they remained awkward and lifeless.

What was the cause of this awkwardness and coldness of which I was well aware, but which I
could not help? I strove unceasingly to reproduce the examples that lived so vividly in my
memory, but all these laborious reproductions, these efforts from memory, were futile. The
stubbornness of an indomitable will, however, led only to a negative result. I was vexed at
an awkwardness the reason of which I could not find.

One day, almost discouraged by the lack of success in my researches, I sorrowfully said to
myself: "What shall I do? Alas! the more I labor, the less clearly I see; am I incapable of
reproducing nature--is the difficulty that holds me back invincible?"

As I uttered the preceding words, I noticed that, under the sway of the grief which dictated
them, my shoulders were strangely lifted up, and, as then I found myself in the attitude which
I had previously tried to render natural, the unexpected movement of my shoulders, joined to
that attitude, suddenly impressed it with an expression of life so just, so true, so surprising,
that I was overwhelmed.

Thus I gained possession of an æsthetic fact of the first rank, and I was as amazed at my discovery
as I was surprised that I had not observed sooner a self-evident movement, whose powerful and
expressive character seems fundamentally connected with the actions of the head. "How stupid
I am," I thought, "not to have remarked so evident an action of an agent which leads the head
itself. How could I let this movement of the shoulder escape me!" And I revelled in the pleasurable
triumph of reproducing and contemplating expressions which I could not have rendered previously
without dishonoring them. Thenceforth I understood without a doubt all the importance of this
latest discovery. But this importance, clearly proven as it was, was not yet fully explained to me.

Thus, I knew henceforth the necessity for movements of the shoulder, but I was still ignorant
of their motive cause; and I was reluctant to be longer ignorant. I foresaw a concomitance
of relations between this movement of the shoulder and the expression of the head.

The shoulder, then, became, in its turn, the chief object of my studies, and I gained therefrom
clear and indisputable principles.

In this way I managed to form the bases of my discovery. The mothers whom I had seen bending
their heads over the children on whom they gazed, thus revealed something unreserved and touching;
and in my ignorance the important part which the shoulder played in the attitude had escaped
me. It was indeed from the action of the shoulder, even more than from the inclination of the
head, that this expression of tenderness, so touching to behold, proceeded.

The head, in such a case, accordingly receives its greatest sum of expression from the shoulder.
That is a fact to be noted.

For instance, let a head--however loving we may suppose it to be intrinsically--bend toward
the object of its contemplation, and let the shoulder not be lifted, that head will plainly
lack an air of vitality and warm sincerity without which it cannot persuade us. It will lack
that irresistible character of intensity which, in itself, supposes love; in brief, it will
be lacking in love.

"Then," I said, "I have found in the shoulder the agent, the centre of the manifestations of love."

Yes, if in pressing a friend's hand I raise my shoulders, I shall thereby eloquently demonstrate
all the affection with which he inspires me.

If in looking at a woman I clasp my hands and at the same time raise my shoulders, there is
no longer any doubt as to the feeling that attaches me to her, and instinctively every one
will say: "He loves her truly;" but if, preserving the same attitude in the same situation,
the same facial expression, the same movement of the head, I happen to withhold the action
of the shoulder, instantly all love will disappear from my expression and nothing will be left
to that attitude but a sentiment vague and cold as falsehood.

Once more, then, the inclinations of the head whose law I have previously determined, seem,
to owe to the shoulder alone the affectionate meaning that they express; but the head--as I
have said,--in its double inclination, characterizes two kinds of love (or rather two sources
of love) which are not to be confounded: sensuality and tenderness.

What part, then, does the shoulder play in regard to this distinction? It will be curious to
determine this point. Let us see!

The part played by the shoulder is considerable in tenderness; that is not to be doubted. But
its role seems to be less in sensuality. Thus the shoulder generally rises less when the head
retroacts than when it advances toward the object of its contemplation. Why is this? Is it
because sensuality pertains less to love than tenderness? Has it not the same title to rank
as one of the aspects of love? In a word, why is less demand made upon the shoulder in one
instance than in the other?

If I do not mistake, the reason is this: love gives more than it lays claim to receive, while
sensuality asks continually and seeks merely the possession of its object. Love understands
and loves sacrifice; it pervades the whole being; it inspires it to bestow its entire self,
and that gift admits of no reserve.

Sensuality, on the contrary, is essentially selfish; far from giving itself, it pretends to
appropriate and absorb in itself the object of its desires. Sensuality is, so to speak, but
a distorted, narrow and localized love; the body is the object of its contemplation, and it
[sensuality] sees nothing beyond the possession of the object.

But love does not stop at the body--that would be its tomb; it crosses the limits of it, to
rise to the soul in which it is utterly absorbed. Thus love transfigures the being by consuming
its personality, whence it comes that he who loves, no longer lives his own life, but the life
of the being whom he contemplates.

Let the vulgar continually confound these two things in their manifestations; let lovers themselves
fail to distinguish accurately between tenderness and sensuality; for me this confusion is
henceforth forbidden, and I can from the first glance boldly separate them, thanks to the lessons
taught me by the inflections of the head.

But let us return to the shoulder. Am I not right in saying that in this agent I possess the
organic criterion of love? Yes, I maintain it. But let us follow the action of this organ in
its various manifestations.

One thing at first amazed me, in view of the part which I felt I must assign to the shoulder.
Whence comes, if the designation of that role be in conformity with truth,--whence comes the
activity so apparent, so vehement indeed, which the shoulder displays in a movement of anger
or of mere impatience? Whence comes its perfect concomitance or relations with moral or physical
pain? Lastly, whence comes that universal application which I just now perceived clearly and
which, until now, I had confined to such narrow limits? But if the elevation of the shoulder
is not the criterion of love, if, on the contrary, that movement is met with again just as
correctly associated with the most contradictory impressions, what can it mean?

Here I was, once again, thrown far back from the discovery that I was so sure I possessed.

It is very fortunate that I have been neither an author nor a journalist, and I bless to-day
that distrust of self which has saved me from the mania of writing. I highly congratulate myself
on the spirit of prudence that has invariably made me reply to whoever pressed me to publish:
"When I am old."

Age has come, and it has found me even less disposed to publicity than ever. This work owes
its existence solely to the earnest and continual solicitations, the sometimes severe demands
of deep friendship and devotion, which it was impossible for me to refuse. This book is not,
then, a spontaneous enterprise on my part; it is the work of friendship. And if this book has
any measure of success, if it accomplishes any good, it may be traced back to and acknowledged
as rising from the never-failing encouragement of my old friend Brucker.

Let us return, now, to where I was in my researches.

It remains, then, for me to specify the true meaning of the shoulders in the expression of
the passions. Their intervention in all forms of emotion being proven to me, it would seem
that the very frequency of that intervention should exclude the possibility of assigning any
particular role to this agent.

Fancy my perplexity, placed face to face with an organ infinitely expressive, but whose physiognomy
is mingled promiscuously with every sentiment and every passion!

How, then, are we to characterize the shoulder? What name shall we give to its dominant rôle?
How specify that supreme power outside of which all expression ceases to exist? Is it allowable
for me to call it neutral? And if the universal application of that agent apparently authorizes
that appellation up to a certain point, whence comes its importance? Whence the empire that
it exerts over the aspect of its congeners? Is it admissible for a neutral agent to exert so
much action upon the totality of the forces to which it is allied?

Assuredly not! The word neutral, moreover, excludes the idea of action, and even more strongly
that of predominant action which belongs surpassingly to the shoulder. Truly, here was a treasure-house
for me. It was, as they say, "to give speech to the dogs."

This new difficulty only increased the determination with which I had pursued my researches;
and with the confidence arising from the fact that no obstacle had yet conquered me, I said
to myself that the solution of this problem would be due to my perseverance. I could not, in
view of the importance of its expression, consider the shoulder as a neutral agent. After spending
a long time in vain study, I was on the point of giving up as insoluble the problem that I
had set myself. Let us see by what simple means I obtained the solution. How much trouble and
pains one will sometimes give himself in looking for spectacles that are on his nose!

The shoulder, in every man who is moved or agitated, rises sensibly, his will playing no part
in the ascension; the successive developments of this involuntary act are in absolute proportion
to the passional intensity whose numeric measure they form; the shoulder may, therefore, be
fitly called the thermometer of the sensibility.

"Thermometer," I cried, "there is an excellent word, strikingly correct. But have I not, in
pronouncing it, simply and naturally characterized the rôle that I am striving to define?

"Thermometer of the sensibility! Is not that the solution of the enigma? Thermometer; yes,
that is it! That is the very expression to give to my researches, an expression without which
nothing could be explained. That, indeed, answers to everything, and makes the difficulties
against which my reason struggled disappear."

The shoulder is, in fact, precisely the thermometer of passion as well as of sensibility; it
is the measure of their vehemence; it determines their degree of heat and intensity. However,
it does not specify their nature, and it is certainly in an analogous sense that the instrument
known by the name of thermometer marks the degrees of heat and cold without specifying the
nature of the weather--a specification belonging to another instrument, the complement of the
thermometer--the barometer. The parallel is absolute, perfect.

Let us examine this point:

The shoulder, in rising, is not called upon to teach us whether the source of the heat or vehemence
which mark it, arise from love or hate. This specification does not lie within its province;
it belongs entirely to the face, which is to the shoulder what the barometer is to the thermometer.
And it is thus that the shoulder and the face enter into harmonious relations to complete the
passional sense which they have to determine mutually and by distinct paths.

Now, the shoulder is limited, in its proper domain, to proving, first, that the emotion expressed
by the face is or is not true. Then, afterward, to marking, with mathematical rigor, the degree
of intensity to which that emotion rises.

After having finished the formulation of this principle I exultingly exclaimed:

"God be praised! I now possess the semeiotics of the shoulder, and thereby I hold the criterion
of the passional or sensitive powers--a criterion outside of which no truth can be demonstrated
in the sphere of sentiment or feeling."

Thus, a word suggested by chance became my Archimedean lever. The word, like a flash of light,
flooded my mind with radiance which suddenly revealed to me the numerous and fertile applications
of a principle hitherto unknown. Yes, I henceforth possessed an æsthetic principle of the utmost
value, the consequences of which, I could readily see, were as novel as they were profound.

Episode VI.

First Objection to the Thermometric System of the Shoulder.

The innate æsthetic principle of the semeiotics of the shoulder was at last clearly demonstrated
to me, and no more doubt or uncertainty upon that point seemed to me possible. I might safely
formulate the following rule:

When a man says to you in interjective form: "I love, I suffer, I am delighted," etc., do not
believe him if his shoulder remains in a normal attitude. Do not believe him, no matter what
expression his face may assume. Do not believe him--he lies; his shoulder denies his words.
That negative form betrays his thoughts; and, if he expresses ardent passion, you have merely
to consult the thermometer which, all unwittingly, he himself offers to your inspection. See,
it marks zero! therefore he lies; doubt it not, he lies! but his shoulder does not lie. He
amiably puts it at your disposal--read, read at your ease; it bears inscribed in living letters
his deceit and craft. It can never cheat you, and when the gentleman accosts you with such
words as: "Dear friend! how charmed I am to see you!" say to yourself as you look at his thermometer:
"Traitor, your delight as well as your friendship is below zero! You try to deceive me, but
in vain; henceforth you have no secrets from me, clumsy forger! You do not see, as with one
hand you proffer the false jewel which you would sell me, that the other at the same instant
gives me the touch-stone which reveals your tricks; your right hand thus incessantly exposing
to me the secrets of your left hand!"

What an admirable thing is this mechanism of the body working in the service of the soul! With
what precision it reveals the least movements of its master! What magnificent things it lays
bare! Voluntarily or involuntarily, everything leads to truth under the action of the translucid
light which breaks forth in the working of each of our organs!

And yet, well founded as the preceding theory may be, solid as are the bases upon which it
rests, is it free from any and all objection? May not some oppose to it, for instance, the
impassibility of men and women of the world, among whom it would be difficult to find the movements
of the shoulder, which such people deem so ungraceful in others as to deprive them of all desire
to imitate them? Now what conclusions are we to draw from the absence of this movement in those
who are known as aristocrats? Must we tax them all indiscriminately with falsehood?

Here I might, and without hesitation, answer by the affirmation, Yes, all aristocrats lie!
The medium which they constitute and which is called the world is nothing but a perpetual lie.
Civility itself rests upon a lie. Nay, more, it insists upon deceit as a duty. Heavens, what
would become of the world if truth were a necessity! Quarter of an hour of sincerity would
be intolerable; ... the inhabitants would slay each other!

In the world people display their feelings, even the most avowable, with great reserve; this
prudence, which paralyzes the very springs of sensitive life, seems as if it needs must neutralize
the role which I attribute to the shoulder; and yet, in spite of contrary appearances, I deny
that the thermometric action of the shoulder undergoes the least alteration in the aristocratic
world; I deny explicitly that this agent proves less expressive and, above all, less truthful
there than in the street; and that for the following reasons:

In the first place, we cannot reasonably suppose very ardent passions in men who are enervated
by the perpetual influence of an artificial society. Now, here the stationary condition of
the thermometer is explained: it proves absolutely nothing against the truth of the reports;
it remains at zero to mark a colorless medium totally destitute of vitality. The shoulder would
violate its law if it were to rise under such circumstances. It is, therefore, perfectly in
character here; it should be, a priori, impassive in a negative society.

But is the shoulder really impassive in that medium which we call society?

Yes, in the eyes of people who are not of it, and who, from that very fact, cannot understand
the value of certain expressions which are almost imperceptible; no, to those who constitute
that special world of relations called superior.

How many things, in fact, the shoulder reveals by those slight changes unseen by ignorant persons,
and expressing particularly the delicate and exquisite charm of spiritual relations! It is
the law of infinitesimal quantities, of those scarcely perceptible movements or sensations
that characterize the finer relations of people of culture, of eloquence, of grace, and of
refined tastes.

It should be borne in mind, as I have already shown, that the manifestations of the shoulder
in the street by no means accord with those of people ruled by the fashions of society. There
is very little harmony or relation between the exquisite joints of a refined nature, the swift
and flexible movements of an elegant organism, and the evolutions clumsily executed by torpid
limbs, ankylosed, as it were, by labor at once hard and constant

This observation logically led me to an important conclusion, namely, that the value or importance
of a standard is deduced expressly from the nature of the being, or the object to which it
is applied. Of what value, for instance, could a millimeter be when added to the stature of
a man? That same millimeter, however, would acquire a colossal value when added to the proportions
of a flea. It would form a striking monstrosity.

An imperceptible fraction may, in certain cases, constitute an enormity. Again, the value of
a standard, not the specific or numerical value which is an invariable basis, but the relative
or moral value, must be deduced from the importance of the medium to which it applies. For
instance: Five hundred men constitute a very good army in the midst of a peaceful population;
and this handful of soldiers exerts, indeed, more moral power than the multitudes restrained
under their government. A smile coming from the lips of a sovereign leaves in the soul that
it penetrates a far deeper trace than all the demonstrations of a common or vulgar crowd. The
traveler, detained by the winter in the polar regions, finds that he is warm and takes pleasure
in the discovery, though at the time the thermometer marks 10 degrees below zero.

The atmosphere of a cave that we find warm in winter seems to us, without being modified in
the least, of an icy coldness in summer.

The large quantity of alcohol that laboring people consume would ruin the health of less strongly
constituted persons.

To conclude, then, these examples prove beyond dispute that one can only appreciate the importance
of an act when he takes into account the nature of its agents, and that without these considerations
he will be obliged to give up immediately all serious estimation of these manifestations.

Here I touch, it seems to me, a law of harmony, a curious law that I wish to examine incidentally.
I shall, then, occupy myself with the objections that may, perhaps, be opposed even yet to
the thermometric system of the shoulder

Episode VII.

The foregoing study has, as it seems, established an important fact, namely, that among the
various classes of men which make up society there is no common standard of measure. It, therefore,
appears impossible, at first sight, to establish a harmonious scale of relations between so
many various circles.

However, if these circles, whatever their differences may be, were specified and sufficiently
known; if I could, for example, judge a priori of the style and mode of activity adapted to
each class of society; in a word, if it were possible for me to characterize each of its classes
dynamically, should I not succeed in ascertaining a proportionate gamut or scale among them,
and thereby should I not be enabled securely to apply the principles established above?

Let us say, to begin with, that if each social sphere affects a determinate character in the
intensity of its passional evolutions, it has, in consequence, its special gamut; then, as
many spheres as there are, so many gamuts must there be. Now, all these gamuts taken together
must form a scale of proportion in virtue of which they may be characterized. That is obvious.
But the difficulty is to prove the mode or first tonality of these gamuts. How are we to set
to work?

I cut short, for the clearness of my demonstrations, the recital of the events through which
I have been obliged to pass before realizing even my earliest observations. I shall set forth,
plainly and simply, the final result of my studies; and it will be seen, in spite of the many
difficulties that may arise, with what absolute certainty the principles I have established
can be applied.

What I Propose.

I propose a great, a worthy subject for your study. At those oratorical sessions which are
rapidly increasing under the name of conferences, sessions at which so many distinguished men
take the floor, you have been told in elegant terms, often in eloquent terms, of the sciences,
of their application and of their progress. You have listened to discourses upon art, its primitive
purity, its supposed principles, its decadence, its renaissance, its multifarious changes;
its masterpieces have been pointed out to you; they have been described to you; you have, in
some degree, been made familiar with their origin. You have heard the story of the lives of
the great artists. They have been shown to you in their weakness and in their strength. The
times and manners amid which they lived have been painted for you in more or less imaginary
colors. I propose something better than all this.

I offer you a work superior even to those sciences which have been described to you; superior
to all which the genius of a Michael Angelo or a Raphael could conceive; a work in comparison
with which all the magnificences of science and of art must pale. I propose that you should
contemplate yourselves!

Nothing is so unfamiliar to man as himself. I will, therefore, as I have promised, show you
the marvels which God himself has placed within you, in the transluminous obscurities of your
being.

Now, if there be more science, more genius in the production of a violet or a worm than is
revealed by all the combined powers of science and of art, how much admiration should we not
feel at the sight of all the splendors which God has spread broadcast in the privileged work
wherein He was pleased to reveal his own image! But a light inaccessible to the vain demonstrations
of your sciences constantly removes this mysterious image from your gaze. As light eludes the
eye which it illumines, if we would seize and contemplate it, we must have two things: we must
have a special and a supernatural object. There must be light within you, and it must pierce
the depths wherein that image dwells.

Here there is no question of the light which shines to show us the things of the natural world
by which we are surrounded. Nor is it a question of the intellectual light sometimes visible
to scholars. I speak of that light which is hidden from those very scholars because their eyes
could not bear its lustre, a transluminous light which fills the soul with beatific visions,
and of which it is said that God wraps it about Him as a mantle.

Now, three worlds, of the nature of which man partakes, are offered for our contemplation.
These three worlds are: The natural, the intellectual, and the supernatural.

Three sorts of vision have been given man to initiate him into these three worlds. These different
forms of vision are: Direct, inward and higher.

By means of direct vision man is made acquainted with the world of nature; by inward vision
he is shown the world of science; and, lastly, by higher vision he sees the world of grace.
But as there can be no vision where no light penetrates, it follows that between the three
kinds of vision described and the corresponding worlds there must intervene three sorts of
light, in order to produce the triple vision necessary for the knowledge of man:

Direct vision--sidereal light--natural world.

Inward vision--the light of tradition--the world of science.

Higher vision--revealed light--supernatural world.

Such are the conditions necessary for the understanding of my demonstrations.

Having prepared your eye for the vision of these three worlds which serve as the bases of art,
I shall, then, reveal to you their splendors; happy if, thus, I can help to make you bless
the author of so many marvels, and communicate to you those keen joys which perpetuate in the
soul a fountain of youth which can never be quenched by the infirmities of the body.

The Beautiful

Beauty is that reason itself which presides at the creation of things. It is the invincible
power which attracts and subjugates us in it. The Beautiful admits of three characters, which
we distinguish under the titles of ideal beauty, moral beauty, plastic beauty.

Plato defined ideal beauty when he said: "Beauty is the splendor of truth." St. Augustine said
of moral beauty that it is the splendor of goodness. I define plastic beauty as the plastic
manifestation of truth and goodness.

In so far as it responds to the particular type in accordance with which it is formed, every
creature bears the crown of beauty; because in its correspondence with its type it manifests,
according to its capacity, the Divine Being who created it.

The Beautiful is an absolute principle; it is the essence of beings, the life of their functions.
Beauty is a consequence, an effect, a form of the Beautiful. It results from the attractions
of the form. The attraction of the form comes from the nobility of the function. This is why
all functions not being equally noble, all do not admit of beauty. The characteristic of beauty
is to be amiable; consequently a thing is ugly only in view of the amiable things which we
seek in beauty.

Beauty is to the Beautiful what the individual reason is to the Divine reason of things. Human
reason is but one ray of a vast orb called the reason of things,--Divine reason. Let us say
of beauty what we have said of the individual reason, and we shall understand how the Beautiful
is to be distintinguished from it. Beauty is one ray of the Beautiful.

Beauty is the expression of the object for which the thing is.

It is the stamp of its functions. It is the transparency of the aptitudes of the agent and
the radiance of the faculties which it governs. It is the order which results from the dynamic
disposition of forms operated in view of the function.

Beauty is based on three conditions: Clearness, integrity and due proportion.

Beauty exists in the practical knowledge of the tendencies affected by the form in view of
the object for which it is; in view, above all, of the action which it exerts upon the beings
with whom it is in relation. Thus a thing is not only beautiful from the transparency of its
aptitudes, it is especially so from the beauty of the acts which its use determines abroad.
This is the reason why beauty is to all creatures an object of appetency, of desire and of love.

Trinity.

There is a mystery full of deep instruction, a mystery whose divine obscurities surpass all
the light whose splendors dazzle us by their supernatural clarity, and which, as a great saint
once said, radiates splendid beams and floods with the glory of its fires those spirits who
are blind with the blindness of holiness. This mystery, outside of which all is to man dark
and incomprehensible, illuminates everything and explains it in the sense that it is the cause,
the principle and the end of all things.

This dazzling mystery is the universal criterion of all truth; it is the science of sciences,
which is self-defining and whose name is Trinity.

Here we foresee an objection to which we must first reply. Some will be surprised that a system
declared to be infallible should rest upon a mystery; they will ask what a mystery can have
to do with a purely didactic question. Patience! You shall see that it cannot be otherwise.
Nothing is more evident than light, yet light is a mystery, the most obscure of all mysteries.
Thus light escapes the eye and it does not see that by means of which it sees. Now, if light
is a mystery, why should not mystery be a light? Let us see first what the church teaches us
in regard to this mystery.

God is a word which serves as a pretext for every Utopia, for every illusion and for every
human folly. The Trinity is the express refutation of all these stupidities; it is their remedy,
corrective and preservative. Deprive me of the Trinity and I can no longer understand aught
of God. All becomes dark and obscure to me, and I have no longer a rational motive for hope.

The Trinity, the hypostatical basis of beings and things, is the reflection of the Divine Majesty
in its work. It is, as it were, a reflection upon us of its own light. The Trinity is our guide
in the applied sciences of which it is at once the solution and the enigma.

The Trinity is manifest in the smallest divisions of the Divine work, and is to be regarded
as the most fertile means of scientific investigation; for if it is at once the cause, the
principle and the end of all science, it is its infallible criterion and we must start from
it as an immovable axiom.

Every truth is triangular, and no demonstration responds to its object save in virtue of a
triply triple formula.

Theory of Processional Relations; or of the Connection between Principiants and Principiates.

THEOREM.

Each term in the Trinity is characterized processionally by the arrangement of the relations
which unite it to its congeners. We will represent the nature of these relations by an arrow,
the head of which starts from the principiant, touching with its point the principiate.

Example.

    Principiant terms --------------->  Principiate terms

This established, let us see by what sort of relations we are to distinguish the persons in
the Trinity represented by 1, 2 and 3.

1. The Father--a term exclusively principiant, giving the mission and not receiving it.

2. The Son--a term both principiant and principiate, receiving and giving the mission.

3. The Holy Ghost--a term exclusively principiate, receiving the mission and not giving it.

              TYPICAL
            ARRANGEMENTS
        BASED ON THE KNOWLEDGE
         OF THE PROCESSIONAL
       RELATIONS INTERUNITING
     THE PERSONS IN THE TRINITY.

                  3
                 / \
                /   \
               /     \
             B/       \C
             / TRINITY \
            /           \
          1/             \2
           ---------------
                  A

A. Relation of generation starting from the generator, ending at the engendered (2), expressing
by its horizontality the co-equality of the principiant with the principiate.

B. Relation of spiration starting from the spirator or first principiant 1, ending at the principiate
3.

C. Relation of spiration starting from the spirator or second principiant 2, ending at the
principiate 3, emanated by way of the common spiration of its double principle 1 and 2.

Vicious Arrangements.

Reversal of the Processional Relations and Confusion Which Leads to Reversals.

These first three examples sin from lack of a necessary relationship, in default of which the
extreme terms cannot be designated. Here, therefore, the intermediate term alone can be estimated.

    1  >-------->  2  <--------<  3

Here the Son offers the relational characteristics of the Holy Ghost.

    1  <--------<  2  >-------->  3

Here He plays the part of the Father by the arrangement of His relations.

    1  >-------->  3  >-------->  2

Here the Holy Ghost is evidently out of place, for He indicates relations which belong only
to the Word.

(1.) According to these relations, the Holy Ghost plays the part of the Son, and the Son that
of the Holy Ghost.

           3
          ^ \
         / 1 \
        /     v
       1------>2

(2.) Here all the relations are reversed so that the Father plays the part of the Son; the
Holy Ghost plays the part of the Father; and, finally, the Son that of the Holy Ghost.

           3
          / \
         / 2 \
        v     v
       1------>2

(3.) This curious example represents by the identical arrangement of the terms that it brings
together, three Sons; that is to say, the person of the Son three times over.

           3
          ^ \
         / 3 \
        /     v
       1<------2

(4.) Another reversal of the relations, which derives the Holy Ghost from the Father, the Father
from the Son, and the Son from the Holy Ghost.

           3
          / ^
         / 4 \
        v     \
       1<------2

Passion Of Signs. Signs of Passion.

These two terms at first sight seem very similar. It is not so. They express two wholly distinct
things. Therefore to know the meaning of words by no means proves one capable of finding words
and fitting them to the meaning.

It is clearly easier to translate a language than to write it, and just as we must learn to
translate before we can compose, so we must become thoroughly familiar with semeiotics before
trying to work at æsthetics; and, as the science of semeiotics is still wholly incomplete,
it is, therefore, absolutely impossible that that which is called æsthetics should in the least
resemble the science which I have just defined.

I have shown you æsthetics as a science. I have given you its definition. I have fixed its
special part in the sum total of knowledge which goes to make up art; moreover, I have pointed
out what this science is intended to teach you. I have, by so doing, assumed serious obligations
toward you. I must needs produce under this title something more than mere fantastic reflections
upon works of art, or more or less attractive stories about their authors and the circumstances
in which they lived. It will not be so amusing, but assuredly it will be more profitable, and
that is all for which I aspire.

Art, then, is an act whose semeiotics characterizes the forms produced by the action of powers,
which action is determined by æsthetics, and the causes of which are sought out by ontology.

          / Ontology examines the constituent virtues of the being.
          ¦
    Art. <  Æsthetics examines its powers.
          ¦
          \ Semeiotics characterizes its forces.

          / Inherent form of sentiments . . . . . . Æsthetics.
          ¦
    Art. <  Metaphysical form of the principles . . Ontology.
          ¦
          \ Organic form of signs . . . . . . . . . Semeiotics.

The object of art, therefore, is to reproduce, by the action of a superior principle (ontology),
the organic signs explained by semeiotics, and whose fitness is estimated by æsthetics.

Semeiotics is the science of the organic signs by which æsthetics must study inherent fitness.

Æsthetics is the science of the sensitive and passional manifestations which are the object
of art, and whose psychic form it constitutes.

If semeiotics does not tell us the passion which the sign reveals, how can æsthetics indicate
to us the sign which it should apply to the passion that it studies? In a word, how shall the
artist translate the passion which he is called upon to express?

Æsthetics determines the inherent forms of sentiment in view of the effects whose truth of
relation it estimates.

Semeiotics studies organic forms in view of the sentiment which produces them.

It is thus that wisdom and reason proceed in inverse sense from the principle to the knowledge
which is the object of both. Wisdom, in fact, studies the principle in its consequences, while
reason studies the consequences in the principle, hence it comes that wisdom and reason are
often at war with each other; hence also the obscurity which generally prevails as to the distinction
between them. Let us say that wisdom and reason are to intelligence what æsthetics and semeiotics
are to art. Let us add to this parallel that wisdom and reason are to intelligence what æsthetics
and semeiotics are to ontology; that is:--

1. If, from a certain organic form, I infer a certain sentiment, that is Semeiotics.

2. If, from a certain sentiment, I deduce a certain organic form, that is Æsthetics.

3. If, after studying the arrangement of an organic form whose inherent fitness I am supposed
to know, I take possession of that arrangement under the title of methods, invariably to reproduce
that form by substituting my individual will for its inherent cause, that is Art.

4. If I determine the initial phenomena under the impulsion of which the inherent powers act
upon the organism, that is Ontology.

5. If I tell how that organism behaves under the inherent action, that is Physiology.

6. If I examine, one by one, the agents of that organism, it is Anatomy.

7. If, amid these different studies, I seek by means of analogy and generalization for light
to guide my steps toward my advantage, that is System.

8. If I make that light profitable to my material and spiritual interests, that is Reason.

9. If I add to all this the loving contemplation of the Supreme Author in His work, that is Wisdom.

Let us now leave the abstractions to which you have kindly lent your attention. I cannot here
avoid casting a rapid glance at those sources of science and art, the sources whence I desire
to draw applications which I am assured will interest you as they interest me. May they afford
you the same delight!

By listening to me thus far you have passed through the proofs requisite for your initiation
into science as well as art; into science, whose very definition is unknown to the learned
bodies, since they have never studied aught of it but its specialties; into art, whose very
fundamental basis is unsuspected by the School of Fine Arts, as I have elsewhere demonstrated.
Therefore, I now desire in the course of these lectures to set aside the terms of a technology
which I could not avoid at the outset, and by the recital of my labors and my researches, my
disappointments and my discoveries, to show you the painful birth of a science, whose possession
entitles me to the honor of addressing you to-day.

Definition of Form.

Form is the garb of substance. It is the expressive symbol of a mysterious truth. It is the
trademark of a hidden virtue. It is the actuality of the being. In a word, form is the plastic
art of the Ideal.

We have to consider three sorts of form: The form assumed by the being at birth and which we
will call constitutional form. Under the sway of custom forms undergo modifications: We will
call these forms habitual forms. Then there are the fugitive forms, modifications of the constitutional
form, which are produced under the sway of passion. These forms, which we will call accidental,
passional or transitory, are fugitive as the things which give them birth.

On Distinction and Vulgarity of Motion.

Motion generally has its reäction; a projected body rebounds and it is this rebound which we
call the reäction of the motion.

Rebounding bodies are agreeable to the eye. Lack of elasticity in a body is disagreeable from
the fact that lacking suppleness, it seems as if it must, in falling, be broken, flattened
or injured; in a word, must lose something of the integrality of its form. It is, therefore,
the reäction of a body which proves its elasticity, and which, by this very quality, gives
us a sort of pleasure in witnessing a fall, which apart from this reäction could not be other
than disagreeable. Therefore, elasticity of dynamic motions is a prime necessity from the point
of view of charm.

In the vulgar man there is no reäction. In the man of distinction, on the contrary, motion
is of slight extent and reäction is enormous. Reäction is both slow and rapid.

Gesture.

The artist should have three objects: To move, to interest, to persuade. He interests by language;
he moves by thought; he moves, interests and persuades by gesture.

Language is the weakest of the three agents. In a matter of the feelings language proves nothing.
It has no real value, save that which is given to it by the preparation of gesture.

Gesture corresponds to the soul, to the heart; language to the life, to the thought, to the
mind. The life and the mind being subordinate to the heart, to the soul, gesture is the chief
organic agent. So it has its appropriate character which is persuasion, and it borrows from
the other two agents interest and emotion. It prepares the way, in fact, for language and thought;
it goes before them and foretells their coming; it accentuates them.

By its silent eloquence it predisposes, it guides the listener. It makes him a witness to the
secret labor performed by the immanences which are about to burst forth. It flatters him by
leading him to feel that he partakes in this preparation by the initiation to which it admits
him. It condenses into a single word the powers of the three agents. It represents virtue effective
and operative. It assimilates the auxiliaries which surround it, and reflects the immanence
proper to its nature, the contemplation of its subject deeply seen, deeply felt. It possesses
them synthetically, fully, absolutely.

Artistic gesture is the expression of the physiognomy; it is transluminous action; it is the
mirror of lasting things.

Lacordaire, that spoiled child of the intellect, spoke magnificently. He interested, he aroused
admiration, but he did not persuade. His organism was rebellious to gesture. He was the artist
of language. Ravignan, inferior intellectually, prepared his audience by his attitude, touched
them by the general expression of his face, fascinated them by his gaze. He was the artist
of gesture.

Thus, if we sing, let us not forget that the prelude, the refrain, is the spiritual expression
of the song; that we must take advantage of this exordium to guide ourselves, to predispose
our hearers in our favor; that we must point out to them, must make them foresee by the expression
of our face the thought and the words which are to follow; that, in fact, the ravished spectator
may be dazzled by a song which he has not yet heard, but which he divines or thinks that he
divines.

Definition of Gesture. (Compare Delaumosne, page 43.)

Gesture is the direct agent of the heart. It is the fit manifestation of feeling. It is the
revealer of thought and the commentator upon speech. It is the elliptical expression of language;
it is the justification of the additional meanings of speech. In a word, it is the spirit of
which speech is merely the letter. Gesture is parallel to the impression received; it is, therefore,
always anterior to speech, which is but a reflected and subordinate expression.

Gesture is founded on three bases which give rise to three orders of studies; that is, to three
sciences, namely: The static, the dynamic and the semeiotic.

What are these three sciences, and, first of all, what are they in relation to gesture? The
semeiotic is its mind; the dynamic is its soul; the static is founded on the mutual equilibrium
or equipoise of the agents.

The dynamic presents the multiple action of three agents; that is to say, of the constituent
forces of the soul.

The semeiotic presents to our scrutiny a triple object for study. It sets forth the cause of
the acts produced by the dynamic and the static harmonies. Moreover, it reveals the meaning
of the types which form the object of the system. It offers us a knowledge of the formal or
constitutional types, of the fugitive or accidental types, and, finally, of the habitual types.

The triple object of the dynamic are the rhythmic, inflective and harmonic forms. Dynamic rhythm
is founded upon the important law of mobility, inversely proportionate to the masses moved.
Dynamic inflections are produced by three movements: Direct movements, rotary movements and
movements of flexion in the arc of a circle.

Dynamic harmony is founded on the concomitance of the relations existing between all the agents
of gesture. This harmony is regulated by three states, namely: The tonic or eccentric state,
the atonic or concentric state, and the normal state. It, therefore, remains for us to fix
the three vital conditions of the static part of gesture. The vital condition of the static
is based upon the knowledge of the nine stations. The spirit of the static entails the study
of scenic planes which embrace three conditions: The condition of the personage in relation
to the scenic centre or to the interlocutor whom he addresses; in the second place, his situation;
and, finally, the direction assumed by his body in regard to the conditions already indicated.

The soul of the static is in the harmonic opposition of the surfaces moved.

The most powerful of all gestures is that which affects the spectator without his knowing it.

From this statement may be deduced the principle that: Outward gesture, being only the echo
of the inward gesture which gave birth to it and rules it, should be inferior to it in development
and should be in some sort diaphanous.

Attitudes of the Head.

The head, considered in its three direct poses, presents three conditions or states. When facing
the object contemplated, it presents the normal state; bent forward and in the direction of
the object, it presents the concentric state; raised and considering the object from above,
it presents the eccentric state. [Compare Delaumosne, page 65.]

If, now, we consider each of its attitudes in connection with a double lateral inclination
of which they are capable, we have the following nine:

1. The first is normal. The head is neither high nor low, the glance being direct.

2. The second is characteristic of tenderness. This attitude consists in bending the head obliquely
toward the interlocutor. The body, in this attitude, should not face the object; thus the head,
in bending toward it, bends sidewise in relation to the body.

3. The third attitude is characteristic of sensuality. This attitude is marked by an inclination
quite the reverse of the second; that is to say, away from the interlocutor. Naturally, in
this attitude, as in the preceding one, the glance is oblique; the head being bent forward
and backward, is here placed obliquely.

4. The fourth is characteristic of scrutiny, reflection. The head in this attitude is bent
forward as we said in concentration, and the eye, from the effort to lower the head, is thrown
up to inspect the object.

5. The fifth is characteristic of veneration. This attitude offers the same inclination as
the second; but here, as the head must be lowered, the eye is directed both obliquely and upward.

6. The sixth is characteristic of suspicion. This attitude offers the same inclination as the
third, with the concentric modifications indicated for the preceding one.

7. The seventh is characteristic of exaltation, passion. This attitude is eccentric and direct,
as we have already said.

8. The eighth attitude is characteristic of abandonment, extreme confidence. This attitude
presents the inclination of the second and the fifth, with this difference, that here the head
is thrown back and the eye, instead of being bent directly upon the object as in the second
and upward as in the fifth, here gazes downward.

9. The ninth attitude is characteristic of pride. This last attitude takes the inclination
of the sixth and eighth attitudes, with the differences in gaze indicated in the foregoing.

Thus, to sum up what we have already said, we see that the first, fourth and seventh attitudes
are directly toward the object; that the second, fifth and eighth bend obliquely toward the
object; and, finally, that the third, sixth and ninth are the result of an oblique inclination
away from the object.

NOTE.--It is to be understood that the various attitudes of the head are asserted only in regard
to the direction taken by the eye. Thus it is not absolutely true to say that the head is in
the eccentric state because it is raised; for it may be that, raised as it is, the direction
of the eye may be even higher than it, and, in that case, the head might, although raised,
present the aspect of the concentric state. Then it would be true to say that the head presents
the concentric state in a high direction.

Attitudes of the Hands.

The hands, like the legs, have three kinds of attitudes. They open without effort and present
the normal state; they close and present the concentric state; then they open forcibly and
present the eccentric state. These three kinds of attitudes produce nine forms.

1. The first is characteristic of acceptance. In this the hand is presented open without effort,
the fingers close together and the palm up.

2. The second is characteristic of caressing. In this attitude the palm of the hand faces the
object considered and gently follows its forms.

3. The third is characteristic of negation. This attitude is executed in the following fashion:
The arm and hand are placed as in caressing; but, instead of following the form of the object,
the hand rids itself of it by a rotary movement, thus placing the palm in a lateral direction.

4. This attitude is executed with the closed fist, the arm hanging naturally, that is, without
any action determined by the will.

5. The fifth is characteristic of will. This attitude consists in carrying the fist forward,
the back up.

6. The sixth attitude is characteristic of menace. This attitude is effected by an outward
rotary movement compressed in the fist, so that, contrary to the will, the back of the hand
is down.

7. The seventh is characteristic of desire. The hand, in this attitude, moves forward as in
the first, but with the difference that here the fingers are spread apart, this spreading signifying
"I do not possess," expresses desire. There is, by the fact of the advance of the hand, aspiration
and not possession.

8. The eighth is characteristic of imprecation. It consists in stretching the palm of the hand
toward the object as in a caress, but with this difference, that the fingers are spread apart,
thus offering a repulsive aspect.

9. The ninth is characteristic of refusal, repulsion. It consists in carrying the hand obliquely
as in negation, observing the spreading of the fingers which characterizes this species.

Affirmation--The Hand.

To make the demonstration of the different affirmations of the hand more clear, we employ the
cube which, as is well known, has six faces, eight angles, and twelve edges.

When the hand is placed upon a flat surface the affirmation is simple; when the hand is placed
upon an angle the affirmation is triple or common to three faces or surfaces. There are three
directions in the cube: Horizontal, vertical and transverse. So, too, there are three directions
possible for the hand in relation to the body:

  1. Abduction--which removes,
  2. Adduction--which brings close, and
  3. The normal direction.

There are three sorts of adduction, three sorts of abduction, and three sorts of normal direction.

There are three horizontal, three vertical and three transverse directions; hence nine terms
applicable to the nine modes of presenting the hand in connection with the cube, which are:

2. The second attitude is characteristic of repose in strength. The weight of the body is thrown
upon one hip, the free leg being carried forward. This change should be effected without tension
or stiffness. This attitude is also characteristic of certain concentric passions hidden under
seeming calm.

3. This attitude is characteristic of vehemence, of which it is the type. It is preëminently
the eccentric attitude. It consists in carrying the whole weight of the body forward, the backward
leg extended in equal proportion to the forward poise of the torso.

4. This attitude is characteristic of the weakness which follows vehemence. It is the type
of concentration; it is also in character as in species the antipodes of the third attitude,
since it is its resolute expression. This attitude consists in throwing the whole weight of
the body backward, contrary to the preceding attitude where the body was brought forward, and
in bending the leg which bears the weight of the body, which is also the reverse of the preceding
attitude, where the leg is extended. This attitude is nearly that of the fencing-master; it
differs, however, in the position of the backward foot, which, in fencing, is turned outward.
The regularity of this attitude may be verified by kneeling, which is its paroxysm. If the
attitude is well done it leads to it naturally.

5. The fifth attitude serves as a preparation for oblique steps; it is also colorless, transitive,
suspensive. It ends all the angles formed by walking. We may define this attitude as a third
transversal; that is to say, the free leg, instead of being behind as in the third, is impassive,
so that the body, instead of being advanced, should be slightly inclined to one side.

6. The sixth attitude is an attitude of pomp and ceremony. It is only assumed in the presence
of kings, princes, or persons for whom we have great respect. We will define this attitude
as a third crossed proceeding from the fifth; that is to say, the free leg of the fifth becomes
the strong leg moving sidewise and slightly forward, thus crossing the back leg.

7. The seventh attitude is an attitude characteristic of absolute repose. It is the strongest
attitude, and, consequently, that assumed by intoxication to resist a lack of equilibrium.
It is the attitude of vertigo, or of extreme trust.

Do not be surprised by the bringing together of these very different and opposite terms in
one and the same attitude. It is a sufficient explanation to say that the strong attitude is
sought out by weakness as a weak attitude is sought by strength. This attitude consists in
the division of the weight of the body between both legs, which are spread wide apart in parallel
directions. This attitude would be improper in a parlor.

8. The eighth attitude is an attitude characteristic of the alternation between the offender
and defender. It is the exact medium between the third and fourth; it, therefore, expresses
moral as well as physical alternation. A man placed between the offensive and the defensive
always assumes this attitude as if to sound the resources of his courage in face of an enemy
stronger than himself; in this attitude he may advance or recede. This attitude is a seventh,
whose direction, instead of being lateral, is parallel to the body and antero-posterior. In
this position the body faces the forward leg, both legs being spread wide apart, as in the
seventh, both receive an equal portion of the weight of the body.

9. The ninth attitude is characteristic of defiance. This attitude is a stiff second. It differs
only in that the free leg is rigid instead of being bent as in the second. To execute this
attitude thoroughly well the free leg must be stretched to the very utmost, without allowing
the strong leg to bend as in the fourth, which is the only attitude where the strong leg should
be bent. To prevent this flexion, the body must be carried well over on the hip of the strong
leg, so that the side of the free leg may be elongated.

Chart Considered from the Organic Point of View.

  2. The Son,
  3. The Holy Ghost,
  1. The Father.

Having examined the table organically, we will study it essentially.

Example.

What we have called eccentric, concentric and normal, we will call vitality, intellectuality
and spirituality; lastly, having established this table from the organic and the essential
point of view, it remains for us to examine it æsthetically and from a practical point of view.

Let us first examine a few gestures, for instance:

Of the Hand.

                                 3 colorless state abandonment
                                 /\
                                /  \
                               /    \
                              /   3  \
                 expansion 1 /\ 2 prostration

                 3 exaltation                      3 power
                /\                                /\
               /  \                              /  \
              /    \                            /    \
             /   1  \                          /   2  \
          1 /\ 2                    1 /\ 2
    exasperation    execration     convulsive state    struggle

Of the Eye.

                             abandonment
                                 /\
                                /  \
                               /    \
                              /   3  \
                indifference /\ moroseness

              stupor                    depression or somnolence
                /\                                /\
               /  \                              /  \
              /    \                            /    \
             /   1  \                          /   2  \
          1 /\ 2                    1 /\ 2
    surprise       firmness              contempt   contention of mind

Of the Torso.

                           dynamic apparatus
                                 /\
                                /  \
                               /    \
                              /   3  \
                       limbs /\ head

              larynx                      veil of the palate
                /\                                /\
               /  \                              /  \
              /    \                            /    \
             /   1  \                          /   2  \
          1 /\ 2                    1 /\ 2
       lungs          mouth              lips           tongue

Æsthetic Division.

                                 3 pure spirituality
                                 /\
                                /  \
                               /    \
                              /   3  \
                vital soul 1 /\ 2 intellectual soul

                 3 spiritual life                 3 spiritual intellect
                /\                                /\
               /  \                              /  \
              /    \                            /    \
             /   1  \                          /   2  \
          1 /\ 2                    1 /\ 2
    animal life  intellectual life   animal intellect  mental intellece

                        / Mind                           / Science
    Human Hypostases   <  Soul                  Worlds  <  Grace
                        \ Life                           \ Nature

                        / Light              / The mind  / distinguishes
    Divine Attributes  <  Love    Functions <  The soul <  reunites
                        \ Power              \ The life  \ asserts

                        / Understanding                  / Speculative
    Faculties          <  Will                 Reasons  <  Final
                        \ Memory                         \ Seminal

                        / Trial generates faith
    Theological Virtues<  Tribulation generates experience
                        \ Fulfilment generates charity

The Holy Trinity Recovered in Sound.

Sound is the reflection of the Divine image. In sound there are three reflex images: The reflex
of life; of the intellect; and of love. They result from the parallel and simultaneous action
of three agents: The projective (life), reflective (intellect), and vibrative (love).

Sound contains three sounds: That of the tonic, the dominant, and the mediant. The tonic (Father)
necessarily generates the dominant (Son), and the mediant (Holy Ghost) proceeds necessarily
from the first two.

Pythagoras discovered this law. Passing before a blacksmith's shop, he heard the sound of heavy
hammer strokes upon a forge. He recognized perfectly that each blow gave out beside the principal
tone (tonic) two other tones, which corresponded to the twelfth and seventeenth of the tonic.
Now, the twelfth reversed is nothing but the fifth or dominant, and the seventeenth becomes,
by a double reversion, the third or mediant of the tonic.

Let us say, then, that every tone necessarily contains the tonic its generator, the dominant
its engendered, and the mediant which proceeds from the other two. The reünion of these three
tones which makes them into one, forms the perfect chord. Full and absolute consonance is the
expression of union, of love, of order, of harmony, of peace; it is the return to the source
of goodness, to God.

If a fourth form should be added to the perfect chord, to consonance, there would necessarily
be a dissonance. This fourth can only enter by an effort, almost by violence. It is outside
of plenitude, of the calm established by the Divine law; it produces a painful sensation, a
dissonance. As soon as there is a discord, a dissonance, the animal cries out, the dog howls,
inert bodies suffer and vibrate; but all is order and calm again when consonance returns.

Speech.

Speech is an act posterior to will, itself posterior to love; this again posterior to judgment,
posterior in its turn to memory, which, finally, is posterior to the impression.

Every impression, to become a sensation, must first be perceived by the intelligence, and thus
we may say of the sensation that it is a definite impression. But, to be definite, it must
pass into the domain of memory and there solicit the reappearance of its congeners with which
it may identify itself. It is in this apparatus and surrounded by this throng of homogeneous
impressions which gather round it, as if by magic, or rather which it draws about it as the
magnet draws the iron, it is, I say, in this complex state that it appears before the intelligence
to receive from the latter a fitting name. For the intelligence could not give it a name if
the homogeneous impressions in which it has, so to speak, arrayed itself, did not serve to
point it out.

Now, by this distinction, established by the double operation of the memory and the intelligence,
a movement takes place in the soul, of attraction, if the intelligence approve; or of repulsion,
if it disapprove. This movement is called the will. The will, therefore, becomes the active
principle in virtue of which speech is expressed; thus speech is the express agent of the will.
It is speech, in fact, which, under the incubation of this mysterious power, rules, groups
and moves bodies with the aid of memory.

Inflection is the life of speech; the mind lies in the articulative values, in the distribution
of these articulations and their progressions. The soul of speech is in gesture.

Breathing.

Breathing, according to its form of production, is: (1) Costal or combined; (2) diaphragmatic;
(3) costo-diaphragmatic.

Breathing is a triple act based upon three phenomena: Inspiration, suspension, expiration.
From the successive predominance of each of these three phenomena, or from their equal balance,
result eighty-one respiratory acts, which may be reduced to three terms: The breathing is normal,
spasmodic, or sibilant.

There are three questions to be considered in regard to breathing:

1. How should it, the breath, be produced to gain the greatest development for the voice?

2. What place should it occupy in speech?

3. What aspect does it assume under the influence of the passions?

In other words, three characters may be attributed to respiration: Vocal, logical, pathetic
or passional.

Vocal Respiration.

The lungs constantly contain a quantity of air, which is the source of life and with which
we cannot dispense without inconvenience to health and to the voice. The quantity of air requisite
for the renewing of the blood, and which is called the breath of life, amounts to a third of
what the lungs are capable of receiving. In order to sing, therefore, it must be increased
by two-thirds, and it is this borrowed breath only which should be given out in singing. When
the lungs are thus filled with air, the sound is produced by escapement. From this it receives
greater force, and its production, far from being a fatigue, becomes a relief.

Inspiration should always be followed by a suspensive silence; otherwise the lungs, agitated
by the act of inspiration, perform the expiration badly.

Logical Respiration.

Logical respiration constitutes the respiration itself. Suspension expresses reticence, disquietude.
Inspiration is an element of dissimulation, concentration, pain. Hence, we have normal, oppressive,
spasmodic, superior, sibilant, rattling, intermittent, crackling, and hiccoughing respiration.

Expiration is an element of trust, expansion, confidence and tenderness. If the expression
contains both pain and love, the inspiration and expiration will both be noisy; but the one
or the other will predominate according as pain predominates over love, or vice versa.

Passional Respiration.

The source of passional respiration lies in the agitation of the heart. The effect of respiration
is most powerful, for the slighter and more imperceptible the phenomena are, the more effect
they have upon the auditors.

Vocal Organ.

The organ assumes at birth a form; this form is called the timbre or tone, This tone corresponds
to the constitutional form. Under the sway of habit, the form assumes an acquired tone which
is called emission. The emissive form corresponds to the habitual tone. Under the sway of emotion
the voice is modulated and assumes forms which we will call passional or transitory.

The mouth is normal, concentric and eccentric. [See chart in Delaumosne, page 81.]

From these three types we have succeeded in fixing and classifying forty-eight million phenomena.

Definition of the Voice.

The voice is the essential element in singing. It is based upon sound. This is based upon three
agents:

The projective agent, or the lungs.

The vibrative agent, or the larnyx.

The reverberative agent, or the mouth.

Each of these agents acts in different ways, nine acts resulting therefrom, which we will call
products of phonetic acts.

The projective agent in its special activities engenders

    Intensities,
    Shades,
    Respirations.

The vibrative agent in its special activities engenders

    Prolations,
    Pathetic effects,
    Registers.

The reverberative agent in its special activities engenders

    Emissions,
    Articulations,
    Vowels.

To recapitulate, the phonetic agents give us nine products; but, when studied from the vocal
point of view, these products become as many elements and must be examined from the triple
point of view of preparatory, practical and transcendant studies. We must, therefore, know
first the general definition of these elements, their cause and their theoretical history,
which constitutes phonology or the preparatory study of the voice.

Secondly, we must know the physical order in virtue of which these phenomena may be acquired
or developed. The various special exercises and the vices to be avoided constitute phonation
or the practical study of the voice.

Thirdly, we must know and appreciate the physiological, intellectual and moral meaning of these
elements, the different relations of resemblance, of opposition and of identity which exist
between these different phenomena.

The modes of application or principles of style form the transcendent study or æsthesiophony,
that is, the voice applied to feeling, etc.

What the Register is.

The register is an intrinsic modification of the sound; a modification which is produced in
the larynx itself and which does not belong to the mouth. Now, we may say of registers that
they are to the larnyx what emissions are to the mouth. Thus registers form a physiognomy which
the sound assumes in the larynx, and emissions form the physiognomy which that same sound takes
on in the mouth.

On Shading.

Light and shade are not, as has been asserted, subject to the arbitration or inspiration of
the moment. They are ruled by laws; for in art there is not a single phenomenon which is not
subject to absolute mathematical laws. A knowledge of these laws is important, the art of shading
forming the basis of style.

The opinion which makes the ascending phrase progressive is false six times out of seven. It
is only correct in the following cases:

1. If an ascending phrase encounters no repeated and no dissonant note it is progressive, and
the culminating note is the most intense. It has one degree of intensity.

2. If we find a note repeated in the ascending phrase, that note, even if it be the lowest
of all, must be made more important than the highest note and will have two degrees of intensity.
In this case, the higher the voice rises the softer it must become; for there cannot be more
than one culminating point in a musical phrase any more than in a logical or mimetic phrase.
All sounds must, therefore, diminish in proportion to their distance from this centre of expression,
from this repeated note. The reason of the intensity of a repeated note lies in the fact that
we repeat only that thing which we desire, and this intensity gives it a greater value.

3. If the repeated note be at the same time the culminating note, it will require a new degree
of intensity. It will have three degrees of intensity.

4. We may possibly find a dissonant note in the ascending phrase, with a repeated culminating
note. (This note would, then, be more than an indication; it would receive an adjective form
from the accident, assuming in the musical phrase the value that an adjective would have in
a logical phrase.) Its intensity, therefore, would be greater than that of the highest repeated
note, and it would have four degrees of intensity.

5. If the dissonant note is also the highest note, it acquires from that position a fifth degree
of intensity.

6. It may happen that the dissonant note appearing in a rising phrase is repeated; by reason
of this repetition it would receive a sixth degree of intensity.

7. Finally, if the dissonant note is at the same time culminating and repeated, it has seven
degrees of intensity.

Pathetic Effects.

Pathetic effects are nine in number, the principal of which are as follows: The veiled tone;
the flat or compressed tone; the smothered tone; the ragged tone; the vibrant tone. The last
is the most powerful.

