Almost all who have had anything to say upon the subject of writing for moving pictures, but
especially the writers of the advertising copy for most of the correspondence "schools" that
offer "fake" courses of instruction upon the subject, have declared that there is "no experience
or literary knowledge necessary" in order to become successful in the photoplay-writing field.
One concern even advertises that the student "can learn this business in from ten to thirty
days." If by this is meant that the mere correct form of putting the work on paper with the
aid of the typewriter--the mechanical arrangement of synopsis, cast, and scenario or continuity--can
be picked up in that many days, there is hardly room to dispute the claim. That, however, is
not quite "learning the business." No previous "literary training" is necessary, if by that
is meant the mastery of English prose writing, or the actual technique of short-story construction
or novel writing. We shall see, however, that the photoplaywright who wishes to succeed in
more than one, two, or three flash-in-the-pan instances must really submit to a course of training,
whether self-conducted or under competent instruction, and the more he knows of fictional and
dramatic art the easier is his new work likely to be.

Nevertheless, there is a real sense in which the statement that no literary training is required
by the student of photoplay writing is true. Provided he is gifted with an imaginative mind
and the native ability to see how an idea or a plot-germ would evolve itself into a climacteric
and coherent story, and provided he has the dramatic sense, he can actually learn the rules
of construction and produce salable photoplays even if he has by no means the literary ability
to write a salable short-story. But he must be a person of ideas--no book and no instruction
can supply that lack.

We have gone so far as deliberately to try to discourage anyone who is so foolish and so undeserving
as to enter the field of photoplay writing without the fullest intention of doing his best
to win for himself the very highest position in that field to which his talent and ability
to work can advance him; and we have no apologies to offer. Few who have not followed the progress
of the moving-picture industry realize the enormous changes that have taken place in the last
four or five years. This is especially true of the branch of the business having to do with
the preparation of the script. To those who have been in constant touch with the work, it seems
only yesterday that the professional photoplay writer, outside of the producing plants, was
an unknown factor. At last came the time when the manufacturers started to advertise for ideas
on which to build their plays. "Ten to one-hundred dollars paid for motion picture plays,"
these advertisements read. They were alluring enough even to the man who already had a steady
position in another line of work. They told him how he could add from "ten to one-hundred dollars"
a month to his regular income. At least, they seemed to promise that, especially when coupled
with the assurance that "no previous literary training" was required. These advertisements
looked attractive, also, to the man whose income was not regular. Small wonder that within
a few months' time scores, hundreds, rushed blindly into a field where even writers of established
reputation would have failed--and did fail--without preliminary technical training. Even those
who succeeded in getting their efforts accepted by the producers found that the check was more
likely to be for ten dollars than for any amount in excess of that.

4. Advance in Requirements

The real change has come within the past ten or twelve months. A sort of weeding process has
been carried on by the various manufacturers, and as a result they recognize certain writers
as being capable of supplying them, at more or less regular intervals, with the kind of scripts
they want, quite as certain magazine editors have lists of story-writers to whom they look
for the bulk of their fiction. Gradually this list of trained and capable, and consequently
successful, writers for the screen is growing larger, for daily some new writer is demonstrating
that the freshness, brightness, and ingenuity of his ideas warrant the editor's putting him
on the list of those from whom good material may be expected.

5. The Demand for Photoplays

Is there not, therefore, it may be asked, a probability of the field's becoming overcrowded?

Hardly. The best proof of the opportunity that is held out to the capable outside writer, new
or old, is that the staff-writers, whose duty it should be to make adaptations of plays and
novels and write the scenario, or continuity, for stories bought from free-lance writers in
synopsis form, are kept pretty busy writing so-called "original stories" for certain stars,
or stories that may be "done" in certain parts of the country at a particular season of the
year. If enough thoroughly good stories could be purchased on the outside, staff writers would
never be called upon to write stories to order; only what might be called "inspired" stories
would be accepted from them. Furthermore, if plenty of good, original stories, written directly
for screen presentation, could be purchased by the editors, the practice of making screen adaptations
of popular novels and stage plays would be cut down by more than half.

"Suppose that the staff writer suddenly gets the 'flash'--the inspiration needed to write a
Western story with a plot that is infinitely bigger and more dramatic than anything that he
has done in a great many months. Thinking it over, he gradually becomes brimful of the theme
and its plot-possibilities. He wants to feed the paper into his trusty typewriter and start
pounding out the scenario before a single bit of the suddenly inspired plot can get away from
him. But he cannot; his company does not make Western stories; nor does it permit its staff
writers to sell their work to other firms. Even if it did, he is far too busy to give the time
to the writing of a story not intended for the use of his own particular studio.

"So the inspired story has to be laid aside, possibly to be worked upon some time in the future,
when he has severed his connection with that company and, by choice or of necessity, become
a free-lance writer again. Instead of writing that story he sits down and writes another society
drama, after cudgeling his brain for some time in an effort to think up a plot that is, at
least, different enough from the one he wrote last week to insure its 'getting by' the scenario
editor, the director and 'the boss.' And that is just the point: Although many of these plots
do 'get by' the powers that be (or the staff writer would not be holding his job), the photoplay-loving
public knows only too well that there is a lamentably close relationship between 'A Wall Street
Romance,' shown at the Novelty Theatre last night, and 'Love and Business,' produced by the
same company and 'featured' at the same theatre three weeks ago. Therefore the constant demand
in nine out of every ten studios for good material from outside writers. Since the writer of
photoplay plots must write action-stories constantly, and since, as has been said, the staff
writers are just as apt to run dry of new plots as are any other writers, it follows that there
must be a market at all times for the really original and highly interesting story, no matter
by whom written. If the big photoplay producing companies are to remain in business, if their
various stars are to be kept working, and their rate of production up to schedule, there must
continue to be a fairly steady flow of good, new stories into the scenario department."[2]

[Footnote 2: "What Chance Has the 'Outside' Writer?" by Arthur Leeds, Moving Picture Stories,
October 5, 1917.]

No, the field is not overcrowded--with capable writers; nor is it likely to be. With incapable
amateurs it undoubtedly is. Every walk of life has contributed its share to the thousands who
are trying to write photoplays. Hundreds fail because they are both illiterate and totally
unfitted for the work. Hundreds more struggle on without a sufficient knowledge of dramatic
values and plot building, not knowing precisely what can and what can not be presented successfully
in the silent drama. Lacking this knowledge, it is impossible to succeed. But the great majority
of the ones who fail, and who, otherwise, would almost certainly have succeeded sooner or later,
owe their failure to their inability to hit upon and develop original, ingenious and dramatic
or truly humorous plots and plot-situations. Many a man of brains and of excellent education
who in any other calling might easily make his mark, finds himself totally unable to win success
in short-story writing and photoplay writing simply because, not having an imaginative or (in
the literary sense) creative mind, he neglects the thousand-and-one opportunities to stock
that unimaginative mind with ideas furnished wholesale by the life he sees about him every
day, or by available books of reference, magazines and daily papers; and, last, but far from
least in importance, the pictured stories seen on the screen.

CHAPTER III

PHOTOPLAY TERMS

Since it is the purpose of this volume to place in your hands every tool of the trade and every
bit of information that may possibly be of assistance in winning the favor of both the manuscript
editor and the director, we must now give the meaning of the technical terms used in photoplay
work. After thoroughly familiarizing yourself with these expressions and what they mean, you
will still have to bear in mind the limitations of the photoplay stage (see Chapter XIII).
A lack of knowledge of the latter is directly responsible for more rejected scripts than almost
any other one defect. Do not write blindly. Do not "take a chance" of getting your material
into proper shape. Master the little details of the work, and thus give yourself the chance
to compete on even terms with those who successfully write the pictured drama.

It is important to note that each term given is defined in its relation to the photoplay, and
not according to its usual or dictionary meaning. All terms are explained in detail as the
book progresses. (See Table of Contents.)

BUST: A very close view of some object necessary to the understanding of the picture; as, a
watch, a miniature, a jewel. A bust picture is usually taken before some dark background, and
does not embody any specific action, but merely gives a close view of the important object.

CAMERA: The device with which the pictures are taken. The operator of the camera is called,
in moving-picture work, "the cameraman." He is, of course, an expert photographer; and, though
"camera" as used here means the moving-picture camera, there is always on hand a regular plate-camera
for ordinary exposures. This is frequently used for taking "stills," or photographs of certain
striking situations in the scenes, from which are made half-tone cuts for the magazines and
trade-paper illustrations, and used in designing the large and small lithographed posters used
by the exhibitors.

CAMERAMAN: See Camera.

CAST: The characters taking individual, and not merely mass, parts in a photoplay.

CAST OF CHARACTERS: The list of characters prepared as a part of the photoplay script for the
use of the director or producer. It is customary to make this cast of characters full enough
to outline eccentricities and individualities of character, together with brief suggestions
for costume.

CLOSE UP: The enlarged portion of a scene, introduced at a point in the action where it is
necessary to show some action or facial expression that would perhaps not be understandable
at the regular range used for the main portion of that scene. It is employed, as is the bust,
to enlarge figures on the screen. Like the bust, it is also designated by its own number in
the continuity of scenes of a photoplay script.

CONTINUITY: See Scenario.

CUT-BACK: A return to a previously shown scene so as to keep the thread of the action clear.

CUT-IN, OR CUT-IN LEADER: A sub-title which cuts into or breaks the action of a scene instead
of appearing before the scene opens. Cut-ins are therefore the sub-titles giving the words
spoken by one or more of the characters in a scene. They constitute the "dialogue" of the photoplay.

CUTTING: It happens not infrequently that from 5,500 to 7,000 feet (or even more, if the director
is inclined to be wasteful) of negative film is exposed, or used up, in taking the scenes intended
for a five-part (5,000-foot) "feature." In every case, a certain amount of film in excess of
what is actually needed is inevitably exposed in the photographing of the complete picture.
In the "cutting room" of the studio the director "assembles" his picture--pieces together the
different scenes, sub-titles, and inserts, and "cuts" portions varying from a few inches to
many feet in length when such portions, if retained, would be regarded as "padding," or superfluous
footage.

DIAPHRAGM: A term applying to a portion of the camera apparatus, and also applied to the process
of causing one scene to disappear, or another to appear. Like the "fade out" and "fade in,"
the "diaphragm out" and "diaphragm in" are descriptive terms, but having a different purpose.
While the "fade out" or the "fade in" separate two parts of a scene, and bring in between them
the thing thought of or spoken of, the "diaphragm out" and the "diaphragm in" (both usually
placed in the script on a separate line) serve the purpose of covering a supposed lapse of
time in the action, where a leader is not needed. (More fully explained in text.)

DIRECTOR: Sometimes called the Producer. The man who plans and directs the building and setting
of all scenes in the production of the picture, as well as casting the actors and actresses
for the various parts, pointing out, in a general way, what costuming and make-up are required,
and directing their acting and stage "business" during the taking of scenes. "Producer" more
properly is the term applied to the manufacturer or manufacturing company.

DOING A PICTURE: To "do" a picture is to produce it in film form. To say that a picture has
been "done" in five reels is simply to state that the production has required approximately
five thousand feet of film.

DOUBLE EXPOSURE: Same as super-imposure. The practice of exposing the same negative film twice,
used extensively in producing "vision" effects, "ghosts," etc., as well as in photographing
scenes where one of the players is cast in a "double rôle," as of twin sisters or brothers,
as is more fully explained in the text.

EDITOR: The person who receives, examines, and passes on your photoplay. He decides as to the
merits of your story, after which, if he accepts it, it is turned over by him to the director.

EPISODE: See Serial.

EXTRAS, OR EXTRA PEOPLE: Supernumeraries, either male or female, who "dress" or "fill in" certain
scenes, or who may even be given small parts, or "bits." "Extras" are frequently used as soldiers,
cowboys, pedestrians, saloon loungers, guests at a ball, or in other similar capacities.

FADE IN: When the screen is dark, and a picture comes up gradually until it is clear, this
is called a fade in.

FADE OUT: When the opposite from the fade in occurs, the scene dying away until the screen
is blank, this opposite term is used. These two terms are employed in the photoplay manuscript
for the purpose of indicating that some character is thinking of, or telling another about,
something that has already happened, or that is prophetically expected to happen. The character
is seen thinking, or talking, then there comes a fade out, and then a fade in, and the scene
that comes up is what he tells of or is thinking about. This again fades out, and the fade
in brings back the original scene with the character thinking or talking; but each of the three
scenes used has its own consecutive scene-number in the manuscript. The fade out may also be
used to end a scene, or be used at the close of the photoplay.

FEATURE: See Reel.

FILM: The strip of translucent material, resembling celluloid, upon which the scene is recorded;
a series of pictures one inch wide and three-fourths of an inch in height, taken at the rate
of approximately sixteen a second, and sixteen pictures to one foot of film. These small pictures
are technically termed "frames."

FOOTAGE: The amount of film consumed in the making of an individual scene, insert, or the entire
picture.

FRAME: See Film.

IDEA: An incident, or a situation, that suggests a plot; in other words, the plot "germ."

INSERT: Anything introduced into the film to aid in telling the story or to explain a point
of the plot. "Leaders" are also inserts; but, as generally used, inserts refers to letters,
telegrams, newspaper paragraphs or personals, or any matter other than cut-ins, or dialogue,
inserted into the film during the progress of a scene, thus becoming practically a part of
that scene.

INTERPOSE: A term used to indicate the process by which a scene merges into the next, one dying
as the other comes up, so that there is no blank screen between them, as in the case of the
fade out and fade in. As in the dissolving views of a stereopticon, the scenes merge one into
the other. This device is used for the same purpose as the fade out and fade in, but, being
more difficult to accomplish, from the camera standpoint, is used only rarely.

LEADER: A sub-title used before a scene to assist the spectator in getting a clear idea of
what the picture is to portray.

LOCATION: When the setting for an action is out of doors, and takes advantage of some natural
environment, such as the front of a house, a barn, or a lane, or a lake, it is called a "location."
So, while any environment for action is broadly a "setting," one usually refers to an interior
setting as a "set" and an exterior setting as a "location."

MULTIPLE REEL: See Reel.

NEGATIVE: The original emulsated film used in the camera when the actions of the participants
in the photoplay are recorded.

PLOT: The original idea worked into a compact number of scenes and individual situations, all
of which in a series carry out the general idea. Sometimes this "plot" is referred to as the
"skeleton" of the photoplay. "In its simplest, broadest aspect, plot is the scheme, plan, argument
or action of the story."[3] Henry Albert Phillips calls it "the 'working plan' used by the
building author."[4]

[Footnote 3: J. Berg Esenwein, Writing the Short-Story.]

[Footnote 4: The Plot of the Short-Story. See also our later discussion of the nature of Plot.]

POSITIVES: The copies printed from the negative. These positives bear the same relation to
the negative as "prints" do to a photographic plate.

PRINTS: The "copies" or "positives." The profit to the manufacturer lies, of course, in selling
as many prints as possible to the exchange managers of the world.

PRODUCER: See Director.

REEL: A full reel of film contains, approximately, one thousand feet. Sometimes two pictures
of five hundred feet each, or of different lengths, may constitute a full reel, and it is then
termed a "split reel." If a photoplay is produced in two or more reels, it is put on the market
as a "two-reel" or a "---- -reel" subject and becomes a "multiple-reel" subject. The term "feature"
is usually applied to a picture of five parts and upward. When referring to a multiple-reel
play, photoplaywrights now favor the use of the word "part" instead of "reel" and say "two-part,"
or "three-part" story or play. Incidentally, it is well to use "picture" in place of "film"
as much as convenient. Earnest workers in the photoplay-writing profession are anxious to eliminate
the old atmosphere of cheapness.

REGISTER: To register an effect is to "show" it to the spectators in a way which cannot be
mistaken. It is sometimes said that an effect, a bit of "business," or an emotion which an
actor is endeavoring to portray, "will not register," meaning that it will not be understood
by the audience in the way intended by the director. Very often a lighting effect does not
"register" as it was thought it would. Again, an actor may wish to "register" disgust or hatred,
and yet he may convey the idea that he is portraying only fear. The word covers various meanings.
In writing your story in action (in the scenario or continuity), if a character is hiding behind
a curtain, watching an exhibition of cowardice in another character, instead of saying "Tom
shows by his actions that he considers Jack an arrant coward," thereby using twelve words,
you may write, "Tom registers disgust at Jack's cowardice," which uses only six words; but
do not use this technical term too frequently in this manner.

RELEASE: Each producing company "releases" or places on the market a certain number of films
every month. Each of these films, therefore, is termed "a release." The "release date" is the
day upon which copies of the film are given out to different exhibitors, to be shown to the
public for the first time.

SCENARIO: Correctly applied only to that part of the photoplay manuscript which describes the
development of the plot, scene by scene and situation by situation; the complete story is swiftly
outlined in the synopsis, but in the scenario it is told--that is, worked out--in action. The
continuity of action; often called "the continuity."

SCENE: A scene is so much of the action of a photoplay as is taken in one place at one time
without stopping the camera. The instant that there is need to stop the camera, to change grouping,
break the progress of the action, introduce or take away characters, or change costumes, that
scene is terminated, and with the new start a new scene is begun.

SCENE-PLOT: That part of the photoplay script which lists the scenes and shows the producer
at a glance exactly what different sets are required to stage the picture, and how many different
scenes may be done in each separate set.

SCRIPT: The typewritten copy of the completed photoplay. A complete script is composed of three
parts: Synopsis, Cast of Characters, and Scenario, or Continuity--and sometimes a fourth part,
called the Scene-Plot.

SERIAL: A photoplay serial, as the name implies, is a film totaling, say, 30,000 feet in length,
and divided into fifteen "episodes," each episode being made up of two reels, or parts--2,000
feet of film. The production covers one long, continued story, each episode planned to end
with a thrilling climax, with a "To be continued in our next," so to speak, tail-piece. The
climax comes only at the end of each episode (as the two parts released each week, taken in
conjunction, are termed). Incidentally, it should be borne in mind that, in all up-to-date
picture theatres, two projecting machines are employed, so that no "break" occurs in the showing
of any picture. For this reason, "feature" subjects do not necessarily have any special climax
at the end of each reel, and, to repeat, serial photoplays have the grand, forward-looking
climax only at the end of each episode.

SET: When a room, hotel lobby, or other interior setting is required, it is usually built in
the studio, or in the open air near by, and is called a "set."

SETTING: The setting is the scenic environment of the action. Whether indoors or out, the surroundings,
properties, furniture, buildings, and, in short, all that comes within the view of the camera,
is the "setting" for that particular scene.

SITUATION: A state of affairs in which certain characters sustain such relations to each other
that an important change might and almost must grow out of the relationship. In other words,
a "situation" is a state of affairs full of dramatic possibilities. When a single character
is confronted by the necessity for an important decision, whether of morals or of physical
action, we also have a "situation."

SPLIT REEL: See Reel.

STAGE: The actual photoplay stage is that space within the range of the camera in which the
action of that given scene will be apparent. In an interior setting it may be the space between
the camera and the walls of the set, to the full extent of the camera-range, in which radius
a host of people may be used; or, in the case of action where intense emotion must be made
clearly apparent, the stage may be only a space beginning at a point from six to eleven feet
from the camera lens, and only as wide as the radius of the camera-angle at that distance.
Actually, the stage is a variable area, within the camera-range, in the scope of which the
required action will be comprehended.

STOCK PEOPLE: The regular members of the stock company employed by the manufacturer, who draw
a stipulated weekly salary, even though not acting in a picture every working day.

STUDIO: That part of the producing plant where the pictures are taken. In its broadest sense,
"studio" is often used as meaning the entire manufacturing plant; but such a plant contains,
besides the "studio," the lighting plant, carpenter shop, scene dock, property room, developing
room, drying room, joining or assembling room, wardrobe room, paint bridge and scene-painting
department, dressing rooms, offices, etc.

SUBJECT: Another term for the play. According to its nature, a picture is known as a "comedy
subject," "dramatic subject," and so on.

SUB-TITLE: See Leader.

SUPER-IMPOSURE: See Double Exposure.

TINTING: Such effects as moonlight, artificial light in a room, firelight, etc., are gained
largely by dyeing, or tinting, the positive film in various colors. Tinting is also frequently
resorted to for no other reason than to enhance the beauty of the scene, as when sunset scenes
are tinted in one of half a dozen suitable tones, or when exteriors are dyed in some shade
of brown or green.

TITLE: The name of the story. A very important element, since it is really an advertisement
to draw attention to the photoplay, as well as an announcement telling what it is about. "A
good title is apt, specific, attractive, new and short."[5]

[Footnote 5: Charles Raymond Barrett, Short Story Writing.]

VISION: The showing of a small scene within a larger scene, as in the case of a lover seated,
thinking of his sweetheart, and a vision of the object of his thought appearing in a corner
of the scene, and disappearing as he smiles. Visions are resorted to usually to indicate the
thought of a character, and should be used only sparingly, if at all.

CHAPTER IV

THE PHOTOPLAY SCRIPT: ITS COMPONENT PARTS

We know what a photoplay is; now what are the component parts of a photoplay script?

Simply because the word "scenario" has been so long used loosely as a name for the full written
outline or story of the photoplay, it has come to mean the entire manuscript--or photoplay
script, as we prefer to call it--completed and ready to be submitted to the editor. Accurately,
however (see the preceding chapter, Photoplay Terms), the "scenario" is only one of the three
or four distinct parts of a photoplay script, as will be developed in full presently. "The
Photoplaywright," a department conducted by Mr. Epes Winthrop Sargent in The Moving Picture
World, was at first called "The Scenario Writer;" however, Mr. Sargent, like most writers and
editors, has abandoned the use of the word "scenario" as applied to the complete script. "Scenario"
is the name now properly given to the continuity of scenes, or "the continuity," as many are
calling it in these days of more precise nomenclature. Furthermore, various trade publications
are now urging writers and all others interested in the work to substitute the word "photoplay"
for "scenario," as being more comprehensive and exact when applied to the complete manuscript.
In strict accuracy, however, even "photoplay" is not a sufficiently explicit term when applied
to the manuscript only, while either "photoplay manuscript" or "photoplay script" is; for,
as all writers may learn to their cost, the "script" is not always destined to become a "play."
To some, however, this distinction may seem like splitting a hair nicely between its north
and northwest corners. At all events, the "photoplay script" is an exact and descriptive term
and may well be used by all interested.

What is of fundamental technical importance in a novel, a short-story, or a play? The story
itself--the plot. And so also it is in the photoplay; only, and the reasons must be obvious,
its importance in the photoplay is even greater. Without the plot, the writer's script will
remain forever a script, a mere piece of hand- or typewriting; it will never be transformed
by the magic wand of the director into a film picture. Remember always that the photoplay is
nothing but a series of scenes in action which make up a story. How can you expect to have
action without a sufficient cause for every effect shown and the scenes arranged in such order
as to produce a complete illusion of a connected, progressive, climax-reaching story? (And
it is just this connected, progressive, climax-reaching arrangement of the events of a story
which we call the "plot.") A novel may be largely a study of character; a short-story may deal
with action which takes place wholly unseen in the soul of man; a play or a musical comedy
may be chiefly a series of scenic pictures or tuneful caperings; but a true photoplay must
act out a story--a story with a big central point, supported by contributing points, or situations.

The story, then, comes first--in more than one sense. It is the bait you hold out to the editor
of the photoplay company. If he can be interested in your story, the script is half sold. This
being true, it follows that your synopsis must be clear, interesting, and as brief as you can
possibly make it, while still giving all the important points of the story. He must grasp your
plot, if not in a nutshell, at least in just as few words as it can be compressed into in order
to make its development perfectly clear. You must therefore outline it, so that he may be able
to see plainly the possibilities of the story as it would work itself out in picture form.

1. The Synopsis

The story must be briefly put, therefore it is necessarily only an outline, a synopsis--and
that is the accepted technical term--forming the first subdivision of your script. Each of
these subdivisions is merely touched upon here, and reserved for separate chapter-treatment
later on.

In the synopsis, of course, your various characters are mentioned by name, but it is also necessary
to add a separate section to your script, containing

2. The Cast of Characters

Almost all motion picture producers are now showing the cast of characters on their films,
and it is only a matter of time when every manufacturer will follow their lead, for this is
a natural step toward the effect of reality. For this reason, as well as because it has been
accepted as following the proper form of photoplay script preparation, your cast of characters
should immediately follow the synopsis, and be distinct therefrom.

3. The Scenario or Continuity of Scenes

Then comes the scenario--the third and last essential part of the complete photoplay script.
In this your story is not told in words but is worked out in action. That is, instead of being
told by description, dialogue, and all the devices of fiction writing, the story is described
as a series of actions, divided into the required number of interior and exterior scenes, together
with the necessary inserts in the way of leaders or sub-titles, letters, telegrams, newspaper
items, advertisements, and the like.

4. The Scene-Plot

In this preliminary consideration of the several parts of the complete script, it must be remembered
that the various producing companies differ as to what they expect a manuscript to contain.
One thing, however, is certain: it is far better to include more detail than is required, than
too little. Therefore, on the whole, it is advisable to send a scene-plot (discussed fully
in Chapter XI), as this part of the script will show the producer at a glance exactly what
different sets are required to stage the picture, and how many scenes are "done" in each set.
It is simply a little help extended to a busy man; for in particular it enables the editor
to understand on first looking over your script how the scenes follow up and fit in with the
action as described in the synopsis. At the same time, it is really a supplement to the manuscript,
and our experience has been that it is more appreciated if written upon a separate sheet, and
included with the manuscript proper. Naturally, the scene-plot is not to be included in scripts
sent to companies that ask for "synopsis only."

Strictly speaking, as one writer on the subject has pointed out, the photoplay manuscript consists
of two essential parts--the synopsis and the scenario.[6] Manufacturers, however, have shown
their approval of having the list of characters, giving the names of characters and a word
or two describing their relations to each other, etc., much as is done in some theatre programs.
Let us, then, look upon the complete photoplay script as being composed of

  I The Synopsis.
 II The Cast of Characters.
III The Scenario, or Continuity of Scenes.
 IV The Scene-plot (as a supplement).

[Footnote 6: A discussion of the present-day requirement of "synopsis only," as announced by
some companies, will be found in Chapter VIII.]

CHAPTER V

A SAMPLE PHOTOPLAY FORM

While the one-reel photoplay is virtually obsolete today, having given place to plays of two
or more reels, the form for the complete script is quite the same for the multiple-reel as
for the single-reel photoplay, hence the following specimen will serve just as well to show
how the several parts of the full photoplay manuscript are set forth as if two or even five
reels were given. The same thing applies to the number of scenes commonly found in any one
reel--nowadays more scenes per reel are customary than was the case when the specimen here
given was written, yet the old form for each scene and for each insert is as correct today
as ever, so that the present model is a trustworthy one for those who would prepare the complete
script, continuity and all, and not "synopsis only."

WITHOUT REWARD[7]

BY ARTHUR LEEDS

Western drama in 32 scenes; 4 interior and 13 exterior settings

[Footnote 7: This story was originally entitled "The Love That Leads Upward." After being accepted
by the Universal, for production by the Nestor Company, the title was changed to meet with
some necessary changes in the scenario. The scene-plot for this story is reproduced in Chapter XI.]

SYNOPSIS

A reward is offered for the capture of Stephen Hammond, better known to the people of Navajo
County, Arizona, as "Aravaipa Steve."

James Freeman, a rancher, brings Dr. Turner to the ranch to attend the younger of his two daughters,
Norma, a little girl of about ten years, the child being ill with fever. The doctor realizes
the necessity of having ice on hand to prepare ice-caps to help reduce the child's fever. Since
it is not so far to Pinedale as it is to the town where the doctor lives, the physician advises
the father to ride there at once, and get back with the ice as soon as possible. He leaves
a bottle of medicine with Jess, the elder girl, and gives her directions for the general care
of Norma. It is while Freeman is away and Jess is alone with the child that Steve Hammond comes
to the ranch, exhausted and hungry. He calls Jess out and she gives him a drink of water. Then,
seeing his evident weariness and realizing that he must be hungry, she invites him to have
something to eat before going on. Jess has never seen Steve before, nor does she guess who
he is, although she has heard of "Aravaipa Steve."

Since her visitor appears to be an honest man, Jess tells him that her father has gone to town--all
the other men being away--to get ice for her sick sister. Steve is greatly touched by the sight
of the sick child, and he suddenly remembers a cave in the foothills where there is ice buried
beneath the rock and gravel. He gets a spare horse from the stable, and taking a couple of
large saddle-bags goes to the cave, procures the ice, and returns to the ranch house. After
Steve has placed ice-caps on Norma's head, Jess accidentally knocks the medicine bottle to
the floor, breaking it and spilling the contents. Realizing the absolute necessity of having
the medicine, Steve determines to ride to the doctor and tell him to take or send some more;
but realizing also that he will be arrested the moment he is seen in town, he tells Jess who
he is. She is astounded, but, unable to forget what he has already done for her, she tells
him not to go--she will risk waiting until the return of her father, who can then go. But Steve
declares that he will go, as delay may endanger the child's life. Upon his arrival at the doctor's,
he is seized and dragged to the sheriff's office, but not before he has delivered his message
to the physician. Dr. Turner rides to the ranch with the medicine, and Jess, feeling intuitively
that harm will come to the man who has done so much for them, begs the doctor to ride back
to protect him from the mob which, the doctor tells her, has more than once threatened to take
the law into its own hands if Steve should be captured. Seeing her distress, both Freeman and
the doctor ride to town, and through their efforts the sheriff is persuaded to allow Steve
to make his escape from a back door of the office. He rides back to the ranch, says farewell
to Jess, and is given her photograph, on the back of which she writes her name and a few words
to the effect that she will be glad to hear how he gets along. He then rides away.

At the end of a year, Jess receives a letter from Steve, saying that he is staying at Winslow,
and that he is now living an honest life, and fills a good position in San Francisco. He asks
her to try to persuade her father to bring her on a visit, so that he may see her again. When
Jess shows her father Steve's letter, Freeman, knowing that Hammond has at least never been
guilty of bloodshed, and believing that the preserver of his little Norma has completely reformed,
agrees to take Jess there to see him. He knows that, great as has been his daughter's impression
upon the former outlaw, his has been no less great and lasting upon her.

CAST OF CHARACTERS

