The verse appears in an edition of his Bible printed at Halle in 1719; in his New Testament,
Tubingen, 1793; in one printed at Basel in 1821; and is also to be found in that printed by
the Christian Knowledge Society. In the Basel edition the verse is thus given;--

    "Denn Drey sind, die de zeugen im Himmel; der Vater, das Wort,
    und der beilige Geist; und diese Drey sind Eins."

Perhaps some of your learned readers can explain when, and by whose authority, the verse was
inserted in Luther's Testament.

E.M.B.

    [We may add, that the verse also appears in the stereotype
    edition of Luther's Bible, published by Tauchnitz, at Leipsig,
    in 1819.--ED.]

       *       *       *       *       *

MINOR QUERIES.

Medical Symbols.--"A PATIENT" inquires respecting the origin and date of the marks used to
designate weights in medical prescriptions.

Charles II. and Lord R.'s Daughter.--Can any of your readers inform me who was the lady that
is referred to in the following passage, from Henry Sidney's Diary, edited by Mr. Blencowe
(March 9. 1610, vol. i. p. 298.):--

    "The King hath a new mistress, Lord R----'s daughter: she
    brought the Duke of Monmouth to the King."

C.

St. Alban's Day.--A friend has asked me the following question, which some of your readers
may perhaps be able to answer, viz.:--

"Till the reign of Ed. VI. St. Alban's Day was kept in England on June 22d (the supposed anniversary
{400} of his martyrdom). It was then erased from the kalendar, but restored to it in the reign
of Chas. II.; when it was transferred to June 17th. Why was this change made?"

W.C. TREVELYAN.

Black Broth (No. 19. p. 300.).--If this were a sauce or condiment, may not the colour have
been produced by the juice of the Boletus, much used in Greece to the present day?

S.S.S.

Deputy-Lieutenants of the Tower of London.--By whom were these officers appointed? What was
the nature of their duties? Had they a salary, or was the office an honorary appointment? They
used to meet periodically, was it for the transaction of business? if so, what business? Does
the office still exist?

S.S.S.

Buccaneers--Charles II.--There is a passage in Bryan Edward's History of the West Indies (vol.
i. p. 164. 4to edit. 1793), in which he gives an opinion that the buccaneers of Jamaica were
not the pirates and robbers that they have been commonly represented; and mentions, on the
authority of a MS. journal of Sir William Beeston, that Charles II. had a pecuniary interest
in the buccaneering, and continued to receive a share of the booty after he had publicly ordered
the suppression of buccaneering: and also, speaking of Sir Henry Morgan, and the honours he
received from Charles II., gives an opinion that the stories told of Morgan's cruelty are untrue.
Can any of your readers tell me who Sir William Beeston was, and what or where his journal
is? or refer me to any accessible information about Charles II.'s connection with the buccaneers,
or that may support Bryan Edwards's favourable opinion of the Jamaica buccaneers and of Sir
Henry Morgan?

C.

Travelling in 1590.--Richard Hooker.--Could any of your readers give me some particulars of
travelling at the above period between London and Salisbury? I should also feel greatly indebted
for any unpublished particulars in the life of the "Judicious Richard Hooker" after his marriage.
Answers might be sent, either through "NOTES AND QUERIES," or direct to me,

W. HASTINGS KELKE. Drayton Beauchamp, Tring.

Decker's Raven's Almanack--Nash's Terrors of the Night, &c.--Having lately picked up a volume
of old tracts, I am anxious to learn how far I may congratulate myself on having met with a
prize. Among the contents are--

1. "The Rauen's Almanacke," for the year 1609, purporting to be by T. Deckers. Is this the
same person with Thomas Dekker the dramatist?

