She dared not picture the ship sailing for England nearly every day of the week. If she were
free to do what she liked--or almost what she liked--she would go at least as often as every
Saturday to watch a big liner move out from the dock, just for the delicious torture of it.

And yet--did she want to go back home? Whenever she asked herself this question--and it was
often--invariably for some silly reason, she saw the blue, wistful eyes of that hypocrite,
the younger Peter Rolls. Also there came upon her a choking sense of homelessness, a mother-want
in a lonely world. But, as Sadie Kirk agreed with her in saying, "What was the good of squeezing
juice out of your eyes just because you happened to be low in your mind?" No, she would not cry!

Then, after all, she dropped asleep in a minute's interval between trains, and dreamed that
she was lost in Fifty-Ninth Street. It was as long as the way to England, and a ghastly street
to be lost in. Its sky line--if it knew anything about the sky--was as irregular as a Wagner
dragon's teeth--high buildings and low buildings, and shanties where coloured families lived;
little, sinister-looking houses where people could be murdered and their bodies never found,
shops where you could buy everything you didn't want and nothing that you did.

In the dream black and white children were fighting and skating on roller skates over the pavement.
Cars were clanging bells. Everybody and everything was making a noise of some sort. Win was
trying to get past the skaters and catch a car. She must, or she would be late for something!
But what? This was horrible. She was going somewhere, and could not remember where or what
she had to do. She was lost forever, and had forgotten her name and the name of the street
where she lived. A roller-skating boy with the face of a black monkey threw her down, and a
surface car and Peter Rolls's automobile were about to run over her when she waked with a jump
that shook the palsied bed. Another "L" train booming by!

Despite lack of sleep and a tiredness of body that Sunday could not cure, Win had never looked
more attractive than when, at precisely twelve forty-five on Monday afternoon she presented
herself at Mr. Meggison's door.

This was his private den, and a visit there, even on a less alarming errand than hers, was
far more formidable than pausing for inspection at an office window. Sadie, with the best intentions,
had been able to give little encouragement There must be scolding or else flirting in prospect.
And Winifred's eyes were bright, her cheeks pink, her head high, as the superintendent's voice
bade her "Come in."

CHAPTER XIV

FROM SCYLLA TO CHARYBDIS

She went in. Mr. Meggison sat in front of his roll-top desk. No such world-shaking event as
his rising to receive her took place. His stenographer's chair was vacant. The cherubic aspect
had for the moment dominated Mephistopheles. Mr. Meggison was smiling. But Win did not know
whether to fear the smile or to thank her stars for it.

Little girls--and sometimes big ones--should be seen and not heard, so Win waited in meek,
flushed silence for the great man to speak.

"Shut the door, please, Miss--er--Miss Child," said he. And the cherubic eyes gazing from under
the fierce contradiction of heavy eyebrows up to the tall girl's face conveyed to her mind
that "please" was a tribute. Also, she suddenly knew that the superintendent had hesitated
over her name on purpose. A man in a high position may wish to be agreeable to a girl beneath
him, at the same time informing her that she is of no vast importance.

With a certain stiff young dignity Win shut the office door.

"You may as well sit down. I want to talk to you."

She sat down in the chair of Mr. Meggison's absent stenographer. By this time the pink of her
cheeks had deepened to red. She was wondering more than ever what he was going to do, and what
she would do when he had done it. But as she sat facing him she realized that she was no longer
afraid. She felt a sense of power and resource.

"Are you surprised that I remember your name, Miss Child?" he asked.

"I don't know the custom," she replied primly. Would he expect her to say "Sir?" Anyhow, she
wouldn't! She compromised with a dainty meekness which might be interpreted as respect for
a superior. Mr. Meggison fixed her with a sharp look which would have detected the impudence
of a lurking laugh.

"That's a funny answer," said he. "You 'don't know the custom!' Well, my idea of you is, you
don't know much about any business customs, on our side of the water or yours either." As he
spoke he watched her face to catch any guilty flicker of an eyelid. "I want you to tell me
what was your idea in going for a job with us."

"I saw your advertisement for extra hands."

"The woods--I mean the papers--are full of advertisements. What made you pick out ours?"

"I'd tried to get other things and failed."

"So we were a last resort, eh?"

"I thought first of being a governess or a companion or getting into a public library or--things
of that sort."

"Why not the stage? You're a good-looking girl, with a figure."

"I promised my father I wouldn't go on the stage. But, anyhow, I don't suppose I could have
got on--an amateur like me. Every place in New York seems full up. And I have no training of
any sort."

"Just a young lady, eh?"

Win smiled. "I never thought of it as a profession--or a label."

He looked slightly puzzled, and when Mr. Meggison was puzzled by an employee, he was generally
annoyed. This case seemed, however, to be an exception. He kept his temper, and even condescended
to grin.

"I don't want you should think I'm asking all these questions because we have any fault to
find with you," he said. "You've done very well. I always know what's going on all over the
place. I keep track of everything in every department. I wouldn't be where I am if I wasn't
up to that. I called you here partly to compliment you on your smartness in that little stunt
of the first day. And you've gone on all right since, all right. These things don't get lost
in the wash. But before I come to that I'm bound to tell you that the report's come up to me
you're a spy."

He threw the cap at her in a way to make her jump if it fitted. But Win did not flinch. What
she had overheard on the first day saved her now from a shock of surprise.

"I caught that word about me from one of the girls," she admitted frankly. "I wondered what
made her think me a spy, and I'm wondering still."

"I guess she thought you looked a sort of swell, and any one could see you weren't used to work."

"But--there must be lots of girls like me in your big shops, just as there are at home."

"No, that's where you're mistaken, Miss Child. There's more chances with us for women than
with you, and more places for 'em. We don't get many of your class in the stores. They can
do better for themselves. You, being a stranger, though, had no pull. And maybe you haven't
been over here long."

"I haven't been long. But my money ran short," smiled Win, encouraged now, since neither of
Sadie's prognostications seemed likely to be fulfilled. "Still, I don't see why it should occur
to anybody that I was a spy. What would a spy do in a shop?"

"That depends whether the job came from outside or in."

"I don't understand!"

"Well, there's a set of smart Alecks who've banded together and call themselves the Anti-Sweat
League, or Work People's Aid Society, or any old name like that. They smell around to see what
goes on behind the scenes in a department store, and drop on us if they can."

"Oh, I see! And you thought they might have hired me---"

"I didn't think so, as a matter of fact. I pride myself on spotting folks for what they are
the minute I lamp them. There's something about 'em I can feel. I was sure you weren't one
of that bunch. But I felt bound to mention the report. Now that's finished--breakfast cleared
away! We'll go on to the next thing."

Again Win waited. And her heart missed a beat, for Mr. Meggison was looking at her as if he
had something very special to say.

"Most of the extra people we let go the week after Christmas," he went on slowly. "Even if
they're smart, we have enough regular ones without 'em. But perhaps we can keep you if you
make good. And if you want to stay. Do you?"

"Yes, thank you. As far as I can tell now, I should like to stay, if I give satisfaction,"
Win answered with caution.

"Well, we'll see. It's up to you, anyhow. I told you I was going to test your character. That's
why I put you where I did. I knew what you'd be up against. Now the idea is to test you some more."

He paused an instant. This was a catch phrase of his: "the idea is." He often used it. And
when he said: "It is my habit," or "My way is," he spoke with the repressed yet bursting pride
of the self-made man who has suddenly been raised to a height almost beyond his early dreams.

"I may change you into another department next week," he went on, "where you'll have a better
time and less work. What do you say to Gloves?"

Win felt very stupid. "What ought I to say to Gloves?" she inquired helplessly.

Then the great Mr. Meggison actually laughed. "Gee! You are an amateur, Miss Child. Why, the
girls all think the Gloves are the pick of the basket. What your London Gaiety is to actresses,
that the glove department is to our salesladies. It's called the marriage market. Ladies' and
gents' gloves, you understand. Now do you see the point?"

"I suppose I do," Win rather reluctantly confessed, faintly blushing.

"Some of the best lookers in our Gloves have married Fifth Avenue swells. It's pretty busy
there just now. The young fellows buy gloves by the dozen for their best girls at Christmas
time when they want to ring a change on flowers. Maybe I'll put you into Gloves, if you'll
agree to make yourself useful."

"I'll try to do my best wherever you put me, Mr. Meggison" said Win, sounding to herself like
a heroine of a Sunday serial, and feeling not unlike one in a difficult situation at the end
of an instalment. At home, in her father's house, she had occasionally been driven to read
Sunday serials on Sunday. They were the only fiction permitted on that day.

"That's all right. But now I mean something in particular" explained Meggison. "I told you
what they were saying about you in your department to see how you'd take it. Well, you didn't
seem desperately shocked at the idea of being engaged by a so-called charitable society to
watch out for any breaks we might make. Not that we do make any, so your trouble would have
been wasted. We give our girls seats and every living thing the law asks for, and our men make
no complaints that we hear. But, of course, we ain't omnipotent. Things are said, things happen
we don't get onto, little tricks that cost us money. Folks shirking, and even stealing; we
have to keep a sharp lookout. We can't turn the spotlights on to everybody at once. So when
we come across a pair of lamps that are bright, a long way above the average we sometimes make
it worth their while---"

"Oh, Mr. Meggison, please don't go on!" Win cut the great man short. "I'd rather you didn't
say it, because--I don't wish to hear. I--I don't want to know what you mean."

It was his turn to flush. But the change of colour was only just perceptible. He had himself
under almost perfect control. His eyes sent out a flash, then became dull and expressionless
as blue-gray marbles. He was silent and watchful. Win, after her outburst, was breathlessly
speechless.

"Good!" said he at last. "Very good. That's the second test. And it's all right, like the first.
Now do you understand?"

"I--I'm not sure. I---"

"You just said you didn't want to know what I meant. But I want you to know. I was testing
your character again. I'm sure now you're straight. You're a good girl, as well as a smart
one, Miss Child."

Suddenly, just as she had begun to feel so relieved that tears were on the way to her eyes,
Meggison bent forward with an abrupt movement and laid his hot, plump hand heavily on hers.
Up jumped the girl and down fell the hand. She seemed to hear herself excusing herself and
explaining her rashness to Sadie: "I couldn't stand it. I wouldn't! I didn't care what happened."

"What's the matter?" he asked, blustering, his face now very red. He kept his seat and looked
up at her with a bullish stare.

"Nothing is the matter, Mr. Meggison," she said. "Only I think I've troubled you long enough.
You--will be wanting me to go."

As she spoke she gazed straight and steadily down into his eyes, as if he were an animal that
could be mastered if your look never let his go. She remembered how Sadie had said that Meggison
wanted to be a "dog," but his bark might be stopped if you showed him in time that you were
not afraid. Winifred was afraid, but she acted as if she were not, which was the great thing.
And the "stunt," as Sadie would have called it, seemed to work--if only for the moment.

When his face had cooled, he said: "Yes, you can go, Miss Child. I've nothing more to say to
you--at present. Except this: it won't be the Gloves."

       *       *       *       *       *

Tingling, burning, whirling with the excitement of her interview--fully felt only after it
was over--Win started to hurry back to work. It was not a crowded time of the day in the shopping
world. Many ladies were lunching not buying, and employees, if on business, were permitted
to use the elevators, white light going up, red light down. Only the boy in smart shop livery,
who rushed the lift from roof to basement, was in the mirrored vehicle when Win got in at the
superintendent's floor.

"Hats, Children's Wardrobes, Games, Toys, Books, Stationery!" shouted the strident young voice
mechanically as the doors whizzed back in their groove at the story below.

In streamed some jaded mothers and children, for whom Win backed humbly into a corner, and
then, just as the doors were about to snap shut once more for a downward plunge, a young man
and woman hurried laughing in. Winifred Child shrank farther into her corner, plastering herself
against the wall of the elevator, and turning her face away, for the newcomers were Lord Raygan
and Ena Rolls.

As the wall consisted entirely of mirrors, however, turning away gave little protection. The
mothers, refusing to retire with their young before the latest arrivals, "swell" though they
might be, Miss Rolls and her companion were forced to push past the forms which kept the door,
and by the time the elevator had shot down a story or two farther the pair were close to Win.
Still she kept her face twisted as far over her shoulder as it would go, at risk of getting
a cramp in the neck, and her heart was beating with such loud thuds under the respectable black
blouse that she feared lest they should hear it.

"Why, hello--it's the Lady in the Moon!" exclaimed Lord Raygan gayly, just when Win had begun
to hope she might reach the ground-floor level without being discovered.

Involuntarily Ena turned with a slight start, recognized Win, pretended not to, and presented
the back instead of the side of a wonderful hat. An aigret jabbed viciously at the tall shop-girl's
eye, and Miss Rolls said hastily: "What Lady in the Moon? I don't know whom you're talking
about, Lord Raygan. But oh, here's our floor! This is where I want to get out."

"Never mind, let's stop in and come up again," commanded Raygan in the masterful way which
Ena loved for its British male brutality--when it didn't interfere with her wishes. "It's Miss--oh,
you know, from the Monarchic. Don't you remember her in the moon dress? How do you do, Miss--er--er?
Who would have thought of meeting you here?"

They were crowded almost as closely together in the lift as sardines in a box, and it was impossible
not to answer.

"How do you do?" responded Win desperately, and Miss Rolls, making the best of a bad dilemma,
found it obligatory to recognize Miss Child. If she had not done so Lord Raygan would have
thought her snobbish, though it was not entirely from snobbishness that she had wished to escape
the girl of the Monarchic.

Her heart was beating almost as hard as Win's. Her brother Peter and Lady Eileen were somewhere
in the shop. This was the day chosen for the sightseeing expedition insisted upon by Raygan.
Ena had hated the idea of it, hated having to be associated in Raygan's eyes with the Hands.
She had felt a presentiment that something horrid would happen, but she hadn't supposed it
would be quite so horrid and upsetting as this.

A dozen times Petro had asked if she'd ever heard from Miss Child. Only day before yesterday--the
silly fellow never seemed to forget! And any moment now he and Eileen might come. They had
made a rendezvous at the jewellery department, not far from this row of elevators, on the ground
floor. Hang the girl! How little delicacy she had shown in taking a place in Peter Rolls's
father's store after that conversation on the ship! And how was she to be got rid of in a desperate
hurry without making Lord Raygan cross?

CHAPTER XV

THE LADY IN THE MOON

It was a difficult situation for Miss Rolls. Dimly it had dawned upon her more than once that
Rags regarded certain speeches and ways of hers as "snobbish"--speeches and ways which to her
had seemed aristocratic. Neither Rags nor Eileen nor Lady Raygan had ever so much as mentioned
the word "snob" in connection with any member of the Rolls family or their friends. But they
had lightly let it drop in connection with others, and Ena's extreme sensitiveness on the subject
her extreme desire to be everything that Raygan liked, made her quick to put two and two together.

She began to see that many of her favourite tricks at home and abroad--with servants, with
her parents, with acquaintances, and the public in general--were not proofs, in Raygan's eyes,
that she was to the manor born, rather the contrary, and that hurt. She was straining to understand
and observe the finest nuances. Never had it been more difficult than to-day, during this visit
she detested to the great department store of Peter Rolls. If she had declined to come, that
would have been snobbish. If, having come, she refused the "glad hand" to one of her father's
shop girls whom Raygan chose to greet as an equal--that, too, would be snobbish. And to be
snobbish was, in Raygan's language, to be "beastly vulgar."

If she were not snobbish--if she treated Miss Child with warm cordiality, asked her a dozen
questions, and listened kindly to the answers, Petro would come with Eileen and find his long-lost
friend. Would Lord Raygan go so far in his dislike of snobbishness as to welcome an assistant
culled from his bride's father's shop as a sister-in-law? Ena thought not. Besides, she was
not sure yet that she would ever be his bride, and any risk she took might turn the scale against
her, so uncertain seemed the balance. Just at present the danger was that she might fall in
the slippery space between two high stools.

"Why, yes, of course, Lord Raygan," she said, able in the midst of alarums to enjoy the repetition
of his title, which made people stare. "We'll stay in the elevator and talk to Miss Child,
and go up again when she has gone. Are you really working here in the store, Miss Child, as--as--a---"

"Yes, I'm in the blouse department," Win replied, quite as anxious to escape as Miss Rolls
was anxious to blot her out. "I've been up to see the superintendent on business, and now I'm
hurrying back to work."

"You never wrote me," said Ena, thinking it was better to chatter than let Lord Raygan talk,
perhaps indiscreetly. And there were still more floors at which the elevator must stop before
reaching the ground level. "I--I do trust you would have written if you'd wanted anything done
that I could do." Her tone tried not to be too patronizing, lest patronage should be considered
to verge on snobbishness.

"Thank you. I never did want anything that you could do. Though it was kind of you to offer,"
Win returned, and was aware that every one was listening.

Oh, why had she believed Mr. Löwenfeld when he vowed that the one secure sanctuary against
the Rolls family was in Peter Rolls's store? If only she had not come here; by this time surely
she would have found something else and all would have been well.

"Well, it's very nice to see you again, Lady in the Moon," said Raygan. "Do you like this place
better than Nadine's?"

"There's more variety," replied Win.

"Not homesick yet for our side of the water--what?"

"I haven't time to think about it," she fibbed. "Now I must say good-bye. We're coming to the
ground floor."

"Let's go along with her, Miss Rolls, and see her home," suggested Rags. "I want to know whether
the blouse department beats that Monarchic room with all the mirrors--what?"

Ena's face showed distress. Her eyes actually appealed to the cause of it to save her, and
Win was only too ready to respond.

"Please don't come," she protested earnestly. "It wouldn't do. It's against the rules to talk
to--to any one you know, except on business. I'm new here still, and I'm sure you wouldn't
want to get me into trouble. I'd much rather go alone, though it's very nice of you to offer.
Good-bye!"

The lift had at last reached the ground floor, and all Win had to do was to let herself be
borne out on a warm tide of females. Ena pressed her body against the wall, and Lord Raygan
must, perforce, stand by her.

"Good-bye!" she cried. "We have to go up again, you know."

"We'll sail by, anyhow, and see where you hang out later," Raygan called after the disappearing
form in black. "And we'll bring Rolls and my sister."

By this time the elevator had emptied itself, save for those bound for the basement and Ena
and Rags. It was impossible for Win to forbid the party to "sail by," or to make any answer
at all, over the decorated heads of many women. But she felt as if she would rather die than
have Peter Rolls see her working in his father's store. He might easily think that she had
taken a place there because of knowing him, and that, regretting the snub delivered at parting,
she had hoped he might some day find her in the Hands.

"I just can't bear it," she said to herself. "I'll have to pretend to be ill, and get permission
from Mr. Thorpe to leave the floor again--to go to the hospital room--anything to get away."

But--wouldn't that be like the ostrich hiding its head in the sand? Evidently Lord Raygan and
Lady Eileen were being shown things. If they hadn't been there already they would be sure to
take a peep into the hospital as well as the rest room. Not the restaurant perhaps! If Mr.
Rolls junior and his sister had any idea what that was like, they would avoid it with their
distinguished guests. Still, even there one would not be safe. The only sure escape would be
to go home, and she would have to look very ill indeed before she could obtain leave of absence
for the rest of the day.

Wondering what on earth was to be done, Win suddenly recalled the look in Ena Rolls's eyes,
which had said as plainly as spoken words: "For heaven's sake get me out of this scrape, and
do or say something to put Lord Raygan off dragging me with him to your horrid old blouse department."

"She won't let them come!" Win told herself. "Somehow she'll prevent it. I'll stick to my guns."

So she went back to her place as if nothing had happened and returned to Mr. Thorpe the permit
he, as aisle manager, had given her to leave her duties and go off the floor on which they
were carried out. It was a small paper slip signed by him, and Thorpe would have been responsible
had she outstayed the time asked for. But she was safely within it, and she had herself well
enough in hand, after her adventure, to answer his kind, sad smile with gratitude.

"What will Miss Rolls do to stop Lord Raygan from wanting to come--and from saying anything
about me to the others?" she wondered. She could not guess. Yet she grew more and more confident
of Ena's finesse as the long afternoon wore on.

What Miss Rolls did was very simple, if you had the clue. But the clue was what Win lacked.

"I thought we were due to meet Eily and Rolls about this time, and look at those wonderful
pearls your father says he gets straight from the fisheries," Rags reminded Ena when the elevator
dropped to the basement and began to bound up again.

"So we are," she admitted, "but there's something I must tell you before we see Petro. That's
why I made the excuse about getting out--only, of course, you didn't understand. You couldn't!
Any floor will do, really--but we'll think of the one likely to be the least crowded. I can't
explain if creatures are pushing us about. Oh, 'Upholstery and Furniture!' They'll do."

The two wormed their way out of the lift, which was becoming more congested at each stopping
place, the legitimate hour for luncheon now being over. The floor chosen by Ena had a series
of "Ideal Rooms," furnished according to periods, and she led Raygan into a Dutch dining-room
with a high-backed settle which, if they sat down upon it, would screen them from passers-by
outside the open, welcoming door. Besides, the old oak made a becoming background for a blue
velvet dress and silvery ermine stole.

"It's about that girl I want to speak," she said, when she had enticed Lord Raygan into this
secluded retreat.

"Who, the Lady in the Moon?" He was staring at delft plates on panelled walls.

"Yes. I wished for a minute she'd been the Lady in Jericho. Perhaps you noticed that I didn't
seem overwhelmed with joy at sight of her?"

"Well, it did occur to me that you might have been more enthusiastic if she'd been a Miss Vanderbilt."

"It wasn't that at all," Ena assured him eagerly, almost piteously. "I didn't mind having to
speak to her because she's a shop girl, but because I was afraid if we stopped and talked,
my brother might come along. I wouldn't have had that happen for anything."

"Why on earth not?"

"I can't tell you, Lord Raygan. Please don't ask me. You'll embarrass me very much if you do.
But will you just trust me that it would be a very bad thing if they were to meet, and not
insist on our going to look her up at the waist counter or wherever she is?"

"Certainly I won't insist," said Rags. "I don't care, you know, whether we look her up or not.
Only she was Rolls's chum on the Monarchic, and I thought if he---"

"Dear Lord Raygan, please don't think about it any more. And if you want to be very kind, and
make me real happy and comfortable, don't tell Petro we met the girl--or even mention her.
You will promise not, won't you?"

"Of course, if you ask me, that's enough," said Rags, looking rather sulky. He was curious
to know what she actually meant, but, of course, could not ask, and somehow the whole affair--Ena's
deep solemnity and secrecy, her hints which mustn't be questioned, began to seem silly and
even rather repulsive. He had never liked her less.

Vaguely conscious that she was not "making a hit," and more than ever angry with the hateful
necessity for this excursion, which was to blame for everything, Ena rambled on, "hoping he
wouldn't misunderstand," and floundering into half explanations which made the situation less
comfortable every minute. At last, when the subject was torn to tatters, and Raygan had begun
to betray impatience, she got up to go.

"Petro and Lady Eileen will be waiting for us in the jewellery department now, I expect," Ena
said drearily. "Let's hurry and meet them, and then we can get away. I'm bored to death with
the stuffy old place, and you must be, too. I can't bear anything commercial. If there's a
lovely concert or a tango tea somewhere to finish up the afternoon, it will be nice. Or almost
anything!"

There was a tango tea, and it was nice. Rags, however was far from nice. He did not seem at
all himself.

"I'm afraid the poor old store wasn't as much fun as you thought it would be," said Petro,
half apologetically, when he began to realize that Rags had a "grouch." Petro had liked the
plan to visit the Hands, and had liked the visit, too. The place had seemed a beehive of industry
and the bees--selling bees and buying bees--had all looked happy and prosperous enough. On
the surface, dad's methods appeared to be the right methods. But Peter wondered if it would
be a betrayal of his promise if he wandered through the store alone sometimes, when it was
less crowded and things more normal. He had surrendered his conviction that he "ought to help,"
and as Peter senior had stipulated for no interference if Peter junior truly trusted him, one
must be careful about interpretations.

Petro's ideas for a "Start in Life Fund" were occupying a great deal of his attention and were
crystallizing into concrete form. He hoped that he might soon cease to be a drone, and end
by being of some real use in the world. But as Peter junior passed out of the shop, his promise
to keep "hands off the Hands" seemed one of the things to regret, whether selfishly or otherwise.
He would have liked to know more of the place, so passionately interesting to him, apart from
its business side; and he was unable to understand how Raygan, the one whose curiosity had
drawn all four to the Hands that day, could have managed to be bored.

"Blouses" pulsed with excitement. Miss Ena Rolls and her brother were said to be "showing their
father's shop to an English lord." How the thrilling tale began to go the rounds nobody in
"Blouses" could tell. But whenever any famous personage--a millionaire's daughter or an actress,
a society beauty or the heroine of a fashionable scandal--enters a big department store, the
news of her advent runs from counter to counter like wildfire. In some shops the appearance
of an Astor, a Vanderbilt, or a Princess Patricia would send up the mercury of excitement forty
degrees higher than that of a Miss or Mr. Rolls. But at the Hands, Peter the Great's son and
daughter would have drawn all eyes from the reigning Czar and Czarina of Russia.

It was rumoured that they had lunched early in the Pompeian restaurant. The waitress who had
served them had not known until too late. She would regret this all her life. Mr. Michaels,
of "Jewellery," who had been honoured by showing them pearls, was envied by all his fellows,
and the same with Miss Dick, of "Candy," and Miss Wallace, in "Perfume." Girls in all departments
grew quite jumpy in expectation that the party might appear, and under the intense nervous
strain of trying to recognize them in time.

"Rubberneck!" one hissed to another, and giggled if she made her start.

Even Miss Stein, now somewhat resigned to fate and looking more kindly at Fred Thorpe, became
condescending and communicative in the general flurry.

"Keep your eyes peeled for a good-looking, short guyl in blue velvet, with an ermine muff and
stole that's a beaut from Beautville," she said to Win. "Thorpe saw her. He's had her pointed
out to him at the theayter, so he knows. Her brother's dark and thin, but blue eyed. I saw
in the Sunday supplement he's goin' to marry the sister of that lord."

       *       *       *       *       *

There was a dinner at Sea Gull Manor that night in honour of the Rolls's guests, and just as
Eileen had finished dressing, her brother Raygan knocked at her door.

"Want me to say your tie's all right?" she chirped.

"No, my child, I do not," said Rags. "I wouldn't trust your taste round the corner with a tie.
You're looking rather pleased with yourself--what?"

"I'm pleased with myself and everybody else," replied Eileen. "This is one of my happy nights."

"I wonder why? There's sure to be a dull crowd at dinner. I've found out now the Rollses know
all the wrong lot."

"I found that out long ago. But I don't care. And I'm going to sit by Petro. So I shall be
all right."

"You've jolly well been with him the whole blessed day. Aren't you sick of his society yet?"

"No. And I shouldn't be till doomsday. He talks to me of such interesting things."

"Has he ever by chance said anything to you about the Lady in the Moon?"

"Good gracious! no, nor the man either. Nor the green cheese it's made of. Is that the sort
of conversation Ena's been treating you to? If it is, no wonder you look bored stiff. You never
could stand romance from any one but darling Pobbles."

"Don't speak of Kathleen in this house. It makes me want to bolt for home. Not that she'd look
at me if I did. But the contrast between her and Ena Rolls--good Lord, it doesn't bear thinking
of! Nothing doing about the Lady in the Moon so far as I'm concerned. It's Rolls who got moonstruck--according
to his sister. Now can you guess whom I mean?"

Eileen's pleasant, plain little face flushed up.

"Oh, the Nadine girl on the ship! The one who looked so nice in the Moon dress. Petro bought
it--for Ena. And she gave it to that fascinating girl. She--Ena, I mean--told me all about it."

"And about the girl, too?"

"What was there to tell?"

"Blamed if I know. But Ena was hinting dark things this afternoon. That's why I was wondering
whether he'd opened out to you. You're such pals."

Eileen shook her head. She was not looking quite so bright as when Rags had first come into
the overheated, overlighted, overdecorated room. But perhaps this was only because he had set
her to thinking intently. "No, he's never spoken of the Lady in the Moon. Let me think--what
was her name?"

"Miss Child."

"You seem to remember very well--you, who mix up all the wrong names with the right faces."

"But I saw her to-day. I forgot--I haven't told you of that yet, have I?"

"No. Where was it?"

"Wait a minute. Strictly speaking, I oughtn't to tell you, I suppose. All the same I will--for
a reason--if you'll promise first not to mention it to Rolls. Never mind why not, but promise,
if you want to know."

"Of course I want to know. You make me fearfully curious. I'll promise not to breathe a word
to Petro."

"Where the girl is or anything about her?"

"'Where the girl is, or anything about her.' Honour bright. Is that enough? Well, then--go on!"

"She's in the shop--employed there, it seems. We met her in the lift, Ena and I. It was a surprise
all round. Ena wasn't overjoyed. No more was the Lady in the Moon. They got rid of each other
quickly and skilfully. Afterward, Ena buttonholed me and sat me down on a hard settee in a
beastly furnished room like a rathskeller, with price tags on everything, and made me solemnly
swear not to split to Rolls."

"About your meeting Miss Child?"

"Ra-ther! And all the rest of it."

"What rest?"

"A lot of rubbish. I don't know what she was driving at, I'm hanged if I do. But if I didn't
like Rolls, I'd suspect."

"But you do like him. And so do I."

"I've noticed that. So would Mubs, if she ever noticed anything that didn't wave suffragette
colours."

"And I shall go on liking him--'right straight on,' as he'd say himself. Nothing that Ena or
anybody else could tell me would make me believe a word against him. And the girl's nice, too.
I'm sure she is. But how too endlessly quaint she should be in the shop."

"She intimated politely, when we asked her questions, that it was a last resort."

"I should think so, indeed! She was--well, not a beauty exactly, but too weirdly fascinating."

"She hasn't changed. Only she looked scared at the sight of us. And she's thinner in the face.
Her eyes seemed to have grown too big for it. Ena said Petro mustn't find out where she is.
Rather rum--what?"

"Is this the thing that's made you so grumpy ever since?"

"I don't know that I've been grumpy. Only a bit reflective. The fact is---"

"What?"

"Never mind. It wouldn't sound very nice."

"Who cares how it sounds? You might tell me, now we've got so far."

"Well, then, sometimes I wonder whether--the game's worth the candle. Whatever the rotten old
proverb means!"

Eileen had no difficulty in understanding the allusion.

"She's got heaps of good things about her," the girl reminded him, being as loyal as was humanly
possible to her hostess.

"Heaps. They're simply piled up in the corners of her nature. But I seemed to have wandered
into an empty place to-day. By Jove, Eily, I thought I'd made up my mind. I'm fond of the old
place at home, and I'd like, to see it done up properly. It isn't as if I'd ever care tuppence
again about any girl on earth after--Kathleen. So what does anything of that sort matter? At
least that's what I've been asking myself."

"I'm afraid Ena thinks you'll soon be asking her."

"Heavens! I suppose she does. Not that I've said a confounded word. I'm hanged if I know what
to do! I tell you what. I'll wait and see how things go to-night. And then--maybe I'll toss
up a penny."

"We ought to go down now, anyhow," said Eileen, still very thoughtful.

"Come along, then, and face the music."

"You go. I'll follow in a minute. I want to put this wonderful pink orchid in just the right
place in my dress, and I shall be nervous if you watch me."

"What a ripper! Where did you get it?" Rags pretended that he cared to know the history of
a wonderful, live-looking flower that lay on his sister's dressing-table.

"Petro. He bought it for me in the florist department of his father's shop. He said it was
the latest addition--the department, not the orchid."

"Don't you get thinking too much about Rolls," grumbled Lord Raygan. "There may be something
in that affair, after all. One can never be sure. Anyhow, I thought I'd tell you."

On that he closed the door, shutting himself out.

"Petro--and the Lady in the Moon," Eileen whispered, just above her breath, as she found the
right place for the orchid.

CHAPTER XVI

THE SEED ENA PLANTED

Ena was glad when she saw Eileen wearing the orchid that Petro had bought for her in the gorgeous
new department at the Hands. Rags had at the same time purchased some gardenias for Miss Rolls,
she having mentioned that the gardenia was her favourite flower. Both girls tucked these trophies
into the front of their coats, and wore them home. Also, they wore them again for dinner, a
far more conspicuous compliment to the givers. Ena meant it to be taken as such, and faintly
hoped, in spite of the afternoon's failure, that the thing she prayed for might happen that
night. Perhaps Lord Raygan needed a little more encouragement, for, after all, she was rich
and he was poor, and men did hesitate about proposing to heiresses--in novels.

Nothing did happen; but there was still time, for the guests were staying on for a cotillon,
and there was a meeting at which Lady Raygan had faithfully promised to speak. It was a shame,
however, that the effect of the orchid as well as the gardenias should be wasted, and the morning
after their visit to the Hands, Ena made an opportunity of speaking to Petro alone.

He was in his own "den," one of the smallest rooms in the house, meant for a dressing-room,
and opening off his bedroom. He had fitted it up as a nondescript lair, and indulged in ribald
mirth if Ena tried to dignify it with the name of "study." All the pictures of the big animals
he hadn't killed were there--beautiful wild things he felt he had the right to know socially,
as he had never harmed them or their most distant relatives. In an old glass-fronted, secretary
bookcase of mahogany, the first piece of "parlour furniture" his parents had ever bought, were
the dear books of Petro's boyhood and early youth, and above, on the gray-papered wall, hung
a portrait of mother, which her son had had painted by an unfashionable artist as a "birthday
present from his affectionate self" at the age of sixteen. An ancient easy chair and a queer
old sofa still had the original, slippery, black horsehair off which Petro and Ena had slid
as children. Petro had named the sofa "the whale," and the squat chair "the seal." Both shiny,
slippery, black things really did resemble sea monsters, and had never lost for Petro their
mysterious personality.

There were some cushions and a fire screen, the bead-and-wool flowers of which mother had worked
in early married life, and on the floor, in front of the friendly wood fire which Petro loved,
lay a rug which was also her handiwork It was made of dresses her children had worn when they
were very, very little, and some of her own which Petro could even now remember. Nobody save
he, at Sea Gull Manor, cared for a grate fire; or if mother would have liked one, instead of
a handwrought bronze radiator half hidden in the wall, she dared not say so. But she came and
sat in Petro's den sometimes, crocheting in the old easy chair, when he was self indulgent
enough to have a fire of ships' logs. The rose and gold and violet flames of the driftwood
lit up for him the secret way to Dreamland and the country of Romance. What it did for mother,
she did not say; but as her fingers moved, regularly as the ticking of a clock, her eyes would
wander over the old furniture she had loved and back to the fire, as if she were trying to
call up her own past and her son's future.

This morning Petro was not in a good mood, for he had been reading in the newspaper an interview
with him which he hadn't given. It was all about the "Start in Life Fund," and sounded as if
he were boasting, not only of the idea, but of the way in which he meant to carry it out. Nobody
likes to be made to appear a conceited bounder when his intentions are as modest as those of
a hermit crab, and a hundred times more benevolent.

Therefore, when Ena came, using as an excuse a dire need of notepaper, and stopped to dawdle,
lighting one of his cigarettes, Petro felt an urgent desire to be cross. She had on some perfume
which he hated, and a split skirt, and was altogether so inconvenient and uncongenial that
disagreeable things to say sat on the end of his tongue. He bit them back, however, for he
knew he should be sorry afterward if he were a beast.

"You look as if you'd like to snap my head off," said Ena, fumbling among his cigarettes.

"So I would. But I won't," said he. "It isn't you I mind. It's only something that Raygan would
call bally rot in the paper."

"Something about us?" Ena was alert in a moment.

"Only about me."

"Is that all! You're so silly about having things in the paper! Almost anything's better than
nothing, I feel, as long as they don't go raking up father's and mother's past. Oh, I know
you think their past's the best thing about them. Let's not argue. Does it say again that you're
engaged to Eileen?"

"No, thank heaven. I don't want to punch heads in her defence."

His sister laughed, and tried to make herself comfortable by putting her feet up on the slippery
whale. The split green cloth skirt fell apart and showed a pink ankle clad in a tight-fitting
film of green silk stocking. Ena gazed at it appreciatively and liked the look of her foot
in a high-heeled green suède shoe with a gold buckle.

"My private opinion is that dear little Eileen was tickled to death by the mistake. The only
thing she didn't like about it was--its being a mistake."

"If you talk like that, I'll wish the whale was Jonah's," said Petro.

"She does love you!" Ena got out hurriedly, fearing to be stopped, or caught up in the surprisingly
strong arms of Petro, and gently set down on the wrong side of the door. "She does! She does!
I've thought so a long time. Now I know it. I mustn't tell you how."

"You oughtn't to tell me how. It isn't true and it isn't kind--to either of us. I hate hearing
such darned nonsense about a girl who likes me as a friend. And she'd be mad as the dickens
if she could hear."

"Perhaps she'd be mad," Ena admitted, "because it is true. If it weren't she'd only laugh.
You're a simple Simon not to see. Everybody else with eyes does see. And they'll all be sorry
for her if you don't speak."

"Any one would think I was a dog and she was a bone," growled Petro. "Speak, indeed! I wish
you'd mind your own business, Ena."

"I am minding it as hard as I can," said his sister, "and you ought to thank me for taking
an interest in yours, too. Don't you like poor little Lady Eileen?"

"Very much; same way she likes me. We're good chums."

"If you don't believe what I say, Petro, there's a splendid way of finding out. Ask her."

"See here, my dear girl, haven't you got anything better to do this morning than to loll all
over my sofa and talk drivel when I want to write a letter blowing up somebody? I felt a fool
when you came in. Now you've made me feel a double-dyed idiot. Kindly go away and dig a hole
in the ground with yourself."

Ena went. But she felt that, despite discouragement, she had already dug a tiny, tiny hole
in very hard ground, not for herself, but for a little seed which might perhaps send out its
shoots later.

It did not precisely do that; but as the ground raked over was Petro's heart, the seed his
sister had left made him uncomfortable. It burned and stung and felt alive, and something had
to be done about it.

Of course Ena was wrong. He was the last fellow in the world a girl could care for. He had
learned that to his sorrow. A girl couldn't even like him. There was something about him that
bored her nearly to death as soon as she began to know him fairly well, and made her want to
bolt. He was as sure, he told himself, of the exact nature of nice little Lady Eileen's feeling
for him as of his for her. Nevertheless, that night at a dance, when he and she (for the best
of reasons, they didn't know how) were sitting out the tango, he found himself becoming confidential.

This was strange, for Petro had one of his father's characteristics if no other--he did not
confide things in people. Peter senior kept his own secrets because it was wise to keep them.
Peter junior kept his partly because he thought they would bore every one save himself. So
even where the two were alike, they were miles apart. For some vague reason, however--which,
if he had stopped to define it, would have convinced him that he was disgustingly conceited--Petro
was moved that night, in a new-fashioned conservatory resembling a jungle, to tell Lady Eileen
one or two things about himself.

How it started he was not quite sure, but with some awkwardness he had tried to lead up to
the subject, and suddenly Eileen had begun to help him out.

"I used to think a man would have to know a lot about a girl," he said, "before he could be
sure she was the sort he could fall in love with. I thought love at first sight wouldn't be
love at all, but only infatuation. Now I see that I didn't know what I was talking about. It
isn't a question of whether you could love her. You've just got to. You can't do anything else.
It's like seven devils or seven angels entering into and possessing you. There they are before
you know what's happened. Afterward, when you find out what's struck you, maybe it's too late.
Or maybe there'd never have been any hope, anyhow."

"'While there's life, there's hope,'" quoted Eileen.

"But what if life's parted you from her?"

"I wouldn't let it, if I were a man. I wouldn't allow the girl to go out of my life. It doesn't
sound a strong thing to do."

"It might be, though, in some circumstances. For instance, if a girl showed you very plainly
she couldn't be bothered with you, it would be weak to run after her, wouldn't it?"

"I wonder," said Eileen, "if a man's a good judge of why a girl does things that she does?
Of course, I don't know much. But I feel he mightn't be. It's so difficult for girls and men
to understand each other, really. Now there's my brother Rags and our cousin Pobbles--I mean,
Portia. Pobbles is her nickname. You know we're great on the most endlessly quaint nicknames
in our family. She's quite a distant cousin of ours, otherwise she wouldn't have such lots
of money as she has. We're church mice. We'd be church worms if there were any! But Rags was
in love with Pobbles for years, and she wouldn't believe it. She thought, because she's not
exactly pretty, it must be her money he wanted. They never understood each other a bit. You
mustn't say anything about this, and I won't say anything about what you tell me. You will
tell me about the girl, won't you? Maybe I can help. You see, though I don't know so very much
about men yet--except Rags--I know a whole lot about girls."

"There isn't much to tell," said Petro. "I met a girl in rather a queer way--sort of romantic,
it seemed to me. And the minute I saw her she stood out quite different from any one else I'd
ever seen, like a red rose in a garden of pale-pink ones. I couldn't get her face out of my
mind, or her voice out of my ears. She was like my idea of a dryad. It seemed she might turn
into a tree if a man looked at her too long. But I didn't know I was in love. I thought she
just appealed to me, fascinated me somehow or other. And I wanted to do things for her all
the time. I was always thinking of some excuse to be where she was. I was looking forward to
doing a lot more things--I suppose it was only selfishness, because I wanted to make her like
me, but I didn't realize that till after she was gone."

"Gone?" Eileen encouraged him.

"Yes. She didn't want me to do those things I'd been planning for her. She wouldn't have what
I could do, or me, at any price."

"Did you--had you--told her you cared?"

"Great Scott! no. I hadn't got nearly so far as that. I told her I hoped to see her again,
that if there was something I could do to help, I--but she wasn't taking any. She seemed friendly
and kind before that, which made it worse when she turned me down so hard. I suppose she hadn't
minded much at first, but the more she saw of me the more she couldn't stand for the shape
of my nose or the way I talked, maybe. She just got to feel that the sight of me hanging around
would poison New York for her, and she intimated that her health would be better if I kept
at the other end of the city. You wouldn't have had me continue to butt in, would you?"

"I don't know. What happened then?"

"Oh, she went away."

"You let her go?"

"What else could I do?"

"You could have found out where she went in case she changed her mind. But perhaps you did
find out?"

"No. For she didn't seem like the kind of girl who would change her mind about a kind of fellow
like me. Besides, I was sort of stunned by the difference in her manner just at the moment.
When I came to myself--I mean, about wondering if I could have done anything better, and realizing
what a terrible lot I cared, she was gone. Then I hoped Ena would hear from her. I think she
promised to write. But it appears that she never did so."

"Is she in New York still?"

"I wish to heaven I knew!"

"Couldn't you find out?"

"I might, if I wanted to be a cad."

"Why--what do you mean?"

"I dare say a private detective would undertake the job. Sometimes I've been tempted--yet no,
I don't believe I ever did come near to playing the game as low down as that."

"But it might be for her good---"

"That's the way I argued with myself. I almost got myself convinced sometimes. But I knew in
my heart it was only sophistry. You see, it isn't as if she would let me do anything for her,
even if she wanted anything done, which I've no particular reason to suppose she does. She's
English, and a stranger over here, but she told me--when we were friends--that she had letters
of introduction to good people and that she'd plenty of money till they found her a job. I
can't bear to think of her needing a 'job' when I--but I'm helpless! No doubt she's all right,
and getting along like a house on fire. She was the sort of girl who would. Or maybe she's
engaged by this time to some chap worth ten of me. But I can't forget. I think of her by day,
and I dream of her by night."

"What do you see her doing in your dreams?" Eileen asked in a new tone of voice. Not more interested,
for she had shown deep interest before, but with a quaver of excited eagerness.

"Dreams go by contraries, luckily," said Peter, "otherwise I should worry. I always see her
in some kind of trouble. If it isn't one darned thing it's another. And I look for her by day
when I'm up in town. I think, what if I should see her face framed in some car window? This
afternoon I even looked for her in our store--though feeling to me the way she did, it would
be the last place where she'd go to spend a cent, if she associated the name of Rolls with
mine. I bet she'd rather go without a cloak on a cold day than buy it there!"

"Our dance, Lady Eileen," said another man, who had tracked a missing partner through the tropical
jungle.

Eileen rose reluctantly, but graciously, throwing Petro a good-bye look. There was a sympathetic,
understanding smile on her pleasant, freckled face which seemed to say: "Don't give up. You
may find her yet. And girls do change their minds about men. Anyhow, I'm glad we've had this talk."

She was glad, though she was sad, too--just a little sad. It would pass, she knew, for she
had not let herself go far. In spite of all that Ena had said, it had never felt true that
Peter cared for her. She could have loved him, and been happy with him, and have made him happy,
she thought, but since he didn't want her, she must set herself to work hard not to want him.
She must take her mind off the little deep-down, bruised hurt in her heart by thinking of a
way in which she could make him happy--a way in which, by and by, he might recognize her handiwork
and send her his thanks across the sea.

"I should like him to know I did it," she said to herself. "And then through all his life he
would have to remember me because of his happiness, which, without me, he might have missed."

Of course, Petro had mentioned no name, and Eileen had asked no questions. If it had not been
for Raygan's revelation she might not have guessed; but now she did guess, and was almost sure.
It seemed to her that a girl who could have Petro's friendship and then drop it like a hot
chestnut didn't deserve him for a friend, much less a lover. But there must have been some
reason. It wouldn't have been human nature, to put things on their lowest level, for a girl
in Miss Child's position to "turn down" a young man in Peter Rolls's for a mere whim.

Could Ena have done something to put them apart? Eileen wondered. It would--she had to admit--be
like Ena. And if Ena had been treacherous or hateful, then it would be a sort of poetical justice
if she lost Raygan through making her brother lose his dryad. Even now Eileen did not know
what Rags would do; and since their day at the Hands, he had seemed somehow "off" the affair
with Ena. But whatever happened in the end--which, one way or the other, must come soon--between
Ena and Raygan, Peter mustn't lose the Lady in the Moon because of a stupid promise exacted
and made to get his sister out of some scrape.

Eileen wouldn't break the promise, because a promise was one of the few things she and her
brother Rags had never broken. Raygan wouldn't release her, even if she begged him to do so,
but there might be another way--a way which might lead Petro straight to the Lady in the Moon,
if he were really in earnest about finding her. That was the clever part of the inspiration
which suddenly came to Eileen that same night after starting up from a dream which was "endlessly
quaint."

"I'll do it when I say good-bye to Mrs. Rolls," she told herself. And the idea seemed to her
so original, so filled with possibilities of romance, that it was as soothing to the bruise
in her heart as an application of Peter Rolls's Balm of Gilead.

She guessed that he had put aside his reserve and told her about the "dryad girl" because Ena
had put him up to think that she--Eileen--had "begun to care." The mortifying part was that
it had been--almost true. But Eileen wasn't going to mind. She was going to say to herself,
if ever the pain came back: "If I can do this for him, surely, when he knows, he'll be glad
he told me, and glad that I cared enough to help."

It was only next morning, when the world showed its practical side, that she realized how seldom
in real life romances can be worked out to a happy ending--or, at all events, the kind of happy
ending the people concerned are striving after.

"I'll do my best, though," she reiterated, "for Petro's sake and for mine."

For her the lost dryad was but a shadowy figure in the background, necessary to the picture,
perhaps, yet not of poignant, personal interest. It was only of Petro she thought.

CHAPTER XVII

TOYLAND

From her own point of view, the lost dryad was a prominent figure in the middle of the foreground;
for life was strenuous for those in the grasp of the Hands, and it was only at night, when
her body could lie quiet while her brain was still terribly active, that other figures assumed
their due importance for Win in the great, bright picture of New York.

It was something to be thankful for that she had escaped Peter the day of that visit of inspection
to the store. Not that she was afraid of him or anything he could do if they should meet. That
would have been too silly and Victorian! Girls were not like that nowadays, if they had any
sense, no matter how "dangerous" men might be. But she had liked him so much, and had been
so bitterly disappointed to learn from his own loving sister that he was not the "Mr. Balm
of Gilead" created by her imagination that it would be unbearable to meet him again, to see
him "giving himself away," and thus proving his sister right.

To be sure, after seeing Miss Rolls in the lift, certain kind protestations of friendship had
been contradicted by a frozen smile, a cold, embarrassed eye. If Peter's sister were insincere
in one way, why not untrustworthy in others? This was one of the questions that darted into
Win's brain at night through one of the holes made there by the giant bees of the "L" road.
But the answer was obvious. Miss Rolls might be superficial, insincere, and snobbish enough
to dislike claiming acquaintance with a girl of the "working classes," but there was no motive
strong enough to make her traduce her brother's character. Even untrustworthy people told the
truth sometimes.

It was rather fortunate, perhaps, that Win had another exciting thought to engross her attention
at this time, though it was no more agreeable than the thought of Peter Rolls. After her conversation
with Mr. Meggison, she confidently expected to find her dismissal in the next pay envelope.
It was not there; but, suddenly and without warning, she was dragged out of Blouses and Neckwear
and dumped into Toys.

This was as great a surprise to Sadie Kirk and Earl Usher as to Win herself. She dropped upon
them as if she had fallen out of the sky--or at least from the top floor. And nobody knew why:
whether it was a punishment or a reward. For Toys gave harder work for the hands without a
capital H than Blouses and Neckwear, even when Miss Stein was badly "peeved." Also, Mr. Tobias,
the floorwalker concerned with the toy department was "a spalpeen and a pie-faced mutt from
'way back," whereas Fred Thorpe was a well-known angel. Yet, on the other hand, not only were
more than half the toy assistants men, but many of the customers also were men. This made the
department more lively to be in than Blouses, and some girls considered Toys next best to Gloves.

It was almost like coming into a strange shop when Win arrived with Sadie before eight o'clock
in the morning for her first day in Toyland, as Earl Usher facetiously named it. The December
morning hardly knew yet that it had been born, and though already there was life in the Hands--fierce,
active life--those pulsing white globes which made artificial sunshine whatever the weather,
had not yet begun to glow like illuminated snowballs. Shadowy men were lifting pale shrouds
off the counters. Voices chattering in the gloom were like voices of monkeys in a dusky jungle--a
jungle quite unlike that fairy place where Peter Rolls had talked of Win to Lady Eileen. Out
of the gloom wondrous things emerged to people, a weird world--the Hands' world of toys.

As Win strained her eyes to see through the dusk, forth from its depths loomed uncouth, motionless
shapes. Almost life-size lions and Teddy bears, and huge, grinning baboons as big as five-year-old
boys, posed in silent, expressive groups, dangerously near to unprotected dolls' houses with
open fronts--splendid dolls' houses, large enough for children to enter, and less important
dolls' houses, only big enough for fairies. Dolls' eyes and dolls' dresses and dolls' golden
curls caught what little light there was and drew attention to themselves.

Some of them stood, three rows deep (the little ones in front, like children watching a show),
on shelves. Others were being fetched out by the chattering shadows, as if they were favourite
chorus girls, to display their graces on the counters. They were placed in chairs, or motor
cars of doll land, or seated carefully in baby carriages. There were walking dolls and talking
dolls and dolls who could suck real milk out of real bottles into tin-lined stomachs. Some
exquisitely gowned porcelain Parisiennes, with eyelashes and long hair cut from the heads of
penniless children, were almost as big and as aristocratic as their potential millionaire mistresses.
Humbler sisters of middle class combined prettiness with cheapness, and had the satisfaction
of showing their own price marks.

These delicate creatures, lovely in pale-tinted robes or forlorn in chemises, were the bright
spots in the vast, dark department, shining out through the dusk as stars shine through thin
clouds. As Win became one of the band of shadows, under Sadie's direction, gradually she grew
accustomed to the gloom, and her gaze called many of the strange objects forth into life.

She found long-haired Shetland ponies big enough to ride, glorified hobby horses clad in real
skins, and unglorified ones with nostrils like those of her landlady in Columbus Avenue. Biscuit-coloured
Jersey cows, which could be milked, gazed mildly into space with expensive glass eyes. Noah's
arks, big enough to be lived in if the animals would move up, seemed to have been painted with
Bakst colours. Fearsome faces glared from behind the bars of menagerie cages. Donkeys and Chinese
mandarins nodded good-morning and forgot to stop. Dragon broods of miniature motor cars nested
in realistic garages.

Dramatic scenes from real plays were being enacted in dumb show on the stages of theatres apparently
decorated by Rothenstein. The Russian ballet had stopped in the midst of "Le Spectre de la
Rose." Suits of armour, which Ursus called "pewter raincoats," glimmered in dark spaces behind
piled drums and under limply hanging flags or aeroplanes ready to take flight. Almost everything
was mechanical--each article warranted to do what it pretended to do in order to have its appeal
for the modern child.

Win was a child of yesterday; yet the big girl has always the little girl of the past asleep
in her heart, ready to wake up on the slightest encouragement, and she felt the thrill of Toyland.
If when she was small she could ever have dreamed of spending her days in a place like this,
she would have bartered her chance of heaven for it--heaven as described in her father's sermons.
It was another of life's little ironies that her lot should be cast in a world of toys when
she was too old to prefer it to Paradise.

Sadie and Ursus had used up the little time they had in warning her what she would have to
expect in Toys.

"There are some punk fellers who'll try it on with you--pinch or tickle you as you pass by,
and say things not fit for a dandy guyl like you to hear," the lion tamer had hurriedly explained.
"But don't you stand for it. You don't have to! Just hand 'em along to me, and I'll make 'em
sorry their fathers ever seen their mothers."

Sadie's story of girl life in Toyland was on the same lines, but with a different moral.

"Don't you tell tales out o' school, no matter what any of the chaps do," was her advice. "I
kin hold my own, and I bet you can. You may be a looker, but you ain't anybody's baby doll.
If a feller calls you 'childie' or 'sweet lamb' or tells you you're the peacherino in the peach
basket, don't you answer back, but just smile and wend your ways. If he goes so far as to put
his arm around your waist or take a nip with his nails out of your arm or hip, why, then you
can land him one on the napper if nobody's lookin'. But all the same, the chaps mostly ain't
so black at heart. They just try to decorate their gray lives a bit, and if those sort of things
didn't happen to me once or twicet a day, why I'd be discouraged and think I'd lost my fatal
beauty."

For some subtle reason, however, "chaps" did not pinch or tickle Win or slip arms around her
waist. One confided to another that he guessed there was nothing "didding" in that direction,
and he'd as soon make love to the Statue of Liberty as an English Maypole; which was as well,
for from the first moment of her entrance on the scene, the lion tamer kept his eyes open.
There were all sorts and conditions of men in Toys, but he was among them as a giant among
pygmies; and even if the ex-ship's steward, the ex-trolley driver, the conjurer out of a job,
and the smart young men who had been "clerking since they were in long pants," had wished to
try their luck with Win, Earl Usher would have shown them the wisdom of turning their eyes
elsewhere.

The news soon ran round Toyland that "Winsome Winnie" was Usher's girl. The male "assistants"
did no worse than call her by her Christian name (they must have caught it from Sadie), and
that was no cause of offence to girl from man in a department store. Every girl in a department
shared by men was "Kitty" or "Winny," "Sadie" or "Sweetie," while the men expected to be addressed
as Mr. Jones or Mr. Brown, except by their own particular "petsies." Sadie was popular with
all, even the "permanences," who considered themselves above the "holiday extras." The ex-steward,
a good-looking young German, had offered to get her a dandy place as stewardess when he felt
ready to sniff salt water again, and though she wasn't "taking any," and often boxed his ears,
she made "dates" with him for dance halls after business hours, especially one called Dreamland,
which was too lovely for "wuyds." There were movies, and you could dance till 'most morning.
Real swell gentlemen, who wore red badges to show "they was all right," came up and asked if
they could "interdooce" other gents to you, in case you'd come in alone and didn't have friends.
But Sadie always did have friends.

The red-haired girl, who had from the first been a haunting mystery for Win, was in the toy
department. Her name was Lily Leavitt, and--as Sadie had already told Win--she was "chucking
herself" at Earl Usher's head. At first Miss Leavitt "lamped" Miss Child "something awful."
But on the English girl's third Toy day a thing happened which converted the enemy into a friend--an
all too devoted friend.

It was now so near Christmas that in the department devoted to toys and games you could not
have placed a sheet of foreign notepaper between mothers (with a sprinkling of aunts and grandmas)
unless you wanted it torn to pieces before you could count "One!" Children were massed together
in a thick, low-growing underbrush, and of their species only babies were able to rise, like
cream, to the top. The air, or rather the atmosphere (since all the air had been breathed long
ago), was to the nerves what tow is to fire. Nobody could be in it for ten minutes without
wanting to hit somebody else or push somebody else's child, little brute! out of the way.

What with heat, the rage for buying, impatience to get in and impatience to get out, the fragrance
of pine and holly decorations, the smell of hot varnish and hot people and cheap furs, the
babble of excited voices and shrieks of exhausted children, it was the true Christmas spirit.
Peter Rolls's store in general, and the toy department in particular, were having what would
be alluded to later in advertisements as an "unprecedented success."

Before Win came the folding chairs for "assistants" had all been broken or out of order. But
(no doubt, said Sadie) because of some lingering suspicion that she might, after all, be an
anti-sweat spy, the springs or hinges were mysteriously repaired throughout the department.
By law any girl could sit down. By unwritten law she mustn't, yet there were the chairs as
good as gold and fresh as paint. They were even pointed out to Win, but in the whirl of things
the moment after she forgot their very existence and never had time to remember it again.

That third day in Toys was the most appalling she had known of all the long, wild days at Peter
Rolls's since coming in as an extra holiday hand. Dozens of customers clamoured for her at
once. Each female creature seemed to have as many hands as Briareus, all reaching for things
they wanted, or gesticulating and brandishing money, or snatching for change. If each distracted
girl had had half a dozen highly trained astral bodies with which to serve these terrible ladies,
it would not have been enough. More ladies would have come.

Yet (Win noticed with wondering admiration) some of the girls, those most experienced and less
easily rattled, did find opportunities to polish their nails and pat their hair. They would
turn as if to find something "in stock," stoop quickly, taking advantage of the crowd behind
the counters, snatch out of their stockings tiny mirrors and bags of powder or rouge, and "fix
themselves," while their anxious customers supposed they were diving for a toy. These were
the girls who kept their own perfumed soap and scent bottles in their lockers and could afford
becoming hats, whether or no they had money to buy new underclothes and stockings when the
old ones gave out.

Win, however, had neither experience enough nor desire to find time for personal matters. She
gave her whole soul to her work and wore that pleasant Christmas smile which floorwalkers wish
to see on salesladies' faces. But her smile was only skin deep. She had never liked her sister
women less--cross, silly, snapping, inconsiderate things, strutting and pushing about in skins
and plumes of animals far more agreeable and beautiful than themselves! Dangling all over with
poor little heads of dead creatures, just as if they were moving butcher shops, and apparently
without a sense of humour to tell them what idiots they looked.

Yes, idiots! That was the word. And if they had enough humour to put on a thumb nail, could
they wear the stick-out and stick-up ornaments on their hats they did wear, to prod each other's
eyes? No, they couldn't! And what with feathers standing straight out behind, and long corsets
down to their knees, they could never lean back against anything, no matter how tired they
were. So, what with tight dresses and high heels and thin silk stockings and low shoes and
blouses on winter days, no wonder men wouldn't let them have the vote!

Win turned from an incipient suffragette into a temporarily venomous woman hater when a customer
made her show nine dozen dolls, and then minced away saying that Peter Rolls never did have
anything worth buying. Another patronizingly bestowed five cents upon Win for her "trouble"
after making her change three toys bought yesterday and taking half an hour over it. Altogether,
when Winifred Child happened to think of Mrs. Belmont's building with the great figure of a
woman falling down the front of it, she would have liked the statue to drop to earth with a crash.

Once in a while, contriving to pass near, Ursus tried to whisper a word of encouragement:

"You're a Wonderchild, you are! Say, it don't spoil your looks bein' tired. You're the picture
postal, you are! Never you mind these dames. Say the word and we'll make up with a large time
to-night. I'll blow you through all the best movies and stake you to an ice-cream, soda. Do
you get yes?"

Despite his well-meant solicitude, however, Win's vitality was at an exceedingly low ebb toward
five o'clock in the afternoon of the third day. There had been no time to go out for an alleged
luncheon and a breath of fresh air. She had eaten nothing since her breakfast of hot chocolate
at a soda fountain, save a poached egg in the employees' restaurant, and, as Sadie said, it
wasn't safe to accept an egg from the Hands unless you'd met the hen socially and knew her
past. Since four o'clock the exile had been thinking passionately of England, with its millions
of women sitting down--actually sitting down!--to tea. And then, suddenly, a man pushed aside
a female thing who was being cross because she couldn't find a doll that said "Papa" and "Mama"
in German.

"As you can't get what you want, madam, I'm sure you won't mind my taking your place," apologized
a cheerful voice. "Madam" was so dumfounded that she gave way. And Win, thankful for a change
of sex in her customer, had put on her polite saleslady air before she realized that she was
face to face with Jim Logan, her motoring acquaintance of the park.

"Howdy do?" he inquired, and hastily added: "I want a doll. I don't care whether she can talk
German or not. Though I do want a little conversation--with somebody."

Money could not be lost to the house of Rolls because one of its female servants wished to
snub an admirer. Mr. Logan was even better dressed than when Win had seen him before. He looked
rich enough to buy Peter Rolls's star doll, price five hundred dollars, with trousseau. Nevertheless
Miss Child determined to outwit him.

"What kind of a doll?" she asked in a business-like tone, showing no sign of recognition. "For
a small girl or a large girl? And about what price do you wish to pay?"

"Doll for a middle-sized girl," replied the customer, his twinkling eyes on the young woman
serving him. "I like large girls best, girls exactly your size and age, twenty at most, and
warranted to look seventeen if given a day's rest and a pretty hat and a supper at Sherry's--with
the right man. I don't mind how much trouble I take looking for a doll any more than I mind
the trouble of looking for a girl. This is a little sister of mine who has to have a doll.
I like other men's sisters better, but---"

"I think I know just what you want," said Win briskly. "If you'll be good enough to wait here
half a minute; I'll see that you get it."

Like a flash she was off, looking for Sadie. But Sadie was too far away. Win didn't want the
redoubtable Tobias to scold her for neglecting customers, as she had heard him scold Lily Leavitt
the day before, when Lily was trying to flirt with Earl Usher. Close by was Miss Lily Leavitt
herself, looking bored to the verge of extinction by an old lady who wished advice in choosing
five presents for five grandchildren. "Miss Leavitt," Win whispered, "would it be possible
for you to take my man, who wants a doll for a middle-aged sister--I mean, middle-sized--and
let me attend to your customer?"

Miss Leavitt threw a green-eyed glance at the man indicated, and said: "Ginks! Ye-h!" as quickly
as she could draw breath.

The immediate and brilliant success of the stratagem was as reviving to tired Win as the encounter
in the park had been. Her splendid vitality came bubbling to the surface again, and she showed
such an interest in selecting the five grandchildren's presents that the old lady thanked Providence
for the exchange. No time, no trouble, was too much, and grandma joyously wallowed in layers
of toys produced for her inspection.

Now and then, when the old lady was choosing between an aeroplane and a train of cars, or a
schoolroom and a Noah's ark, Win took an eyelash-veiled look at Miss Leavitt and her customer.
He had apparently bought one doll, veiled like a harem woman, and was hesitating over another.
The grandmother of five was not the only person needing advice, it seemed. The brother of one
middle-sized sister was evidently demanding it from Miss Leavitt.

In any case, their heads were close together over a Tango Tea doll who tried to look as if
she had been dressed by Poiret. It stood to reason that a man might want a woman to tell him
whether that was the sort of thing a middle-sized child would like, but though their heads
were bent over the doll, their eyes turned occasionally toward Miss Child.

"Keep the change and buy yourself and your friends some little thing for Christmas," Win heard
Logan say at last when, discouraged by the interminable length of grandma's visit, he had resigned
himself to go away.

The girl glanced involuntarily at Miss Leavitt's hand, which was clenched into a fist. In it
was a crisp-looking new greenback on which at one end she thought she saw the word "Ten."

Ten dollars! The man had made Lily Leavitt a present of ten dollars, and she had accepted it!
Would he have tried to do the same with her, or would he have attempted to be even more generous
if she had not been chaperoned by the grandmother of five? Also, was it just the Christmas
spirit, or had Lily done something special to earn the money?

CHAPTER XVIII

THE BIG BLUFF

Lily Leavitt's gratitude was immense. She was a changed girl from that moment. Not that she
ceased to like Earl Usher, who awkwardly resented her overtures and was boyishly ashamed of
them, but her jealousy seemed, after the handing over of Mr. Logan, to lose its bitterness.

She no longer glared and talked "at" Miss Child, asking if she "wore her hair that way for
a bet," and "why some people wanted to take up all the room clerking in stores when they could
get better money doing giantess stunts in a Bowery show?" Instead she did her best to make
friends with Win and her smart little watchdog, Sadie Kirk.

She brought them presents of hothouse fruit and chocolates, which Win refused and Sadie nonchalantly
accepted, wondering "where the Leavitt creature picked 'em up. They didn't grow on blackberry
bushes, no fear. And she wasn't going to let 'em spoil!"

As the desperate days before Christmas raged furiously on, Win was still unable to guess Mr.
Meggison's real motive for putting her into the toy department. Her duties were more exhausting
than they had been downstairs That suggested penance. On the other hand, they had more variety
and amusement, for there were five hundred different kinds of toys to sell to five hundred
different types of people. That suggested benignity.

Perhaps, thought Sadie, Meggison wanted to see how much the new girl could stand. Perhaps he
wished to "sweat out of her" all the work of which she was capable, the full wage worth she
could give to Peter Rolls before casting her aside forever.

Or--it was just possible that, instead of exciting resentment she had won his respect by "cheeking"
him. That had been known to happen in the most unexpected, though now historic cases. And girls
who had awaited their discharge had been promoted, mounting slowly higher and higher over the
bodies of those who fell by the wayside, until they had become head buyers, receiving ten thousand
dollars a year and a trip to Paris every summer.

In any case, Win liked Toys better than Blouses, though Mr. Tobias (whose hair "left off where
it began," and who wore his eyes in bags) was a very "different proposition" from Fred Thorpe,
the kind and handsome floorwalker who loved Dora Stein, yet was fair to her rivals. If Tobias
saw a young woman stop to breathe he came up and reminded her that this wasn't a matinée--they
weren't having a party that day nor serving five-o'clock tea.

The girls, too, were often rough in their ways and pushed each other rudely about. They were
surlily suspicious sometimes and seemed temperamentally unable to trust one another, but they
were good-natured at heart. "Snap and let snap" was the unwritten law in Toyland, and though
they all squabbled among themselves, if a girl were ill or had bad news her companions were
ready in an instant to help or console.

They mimicked Win and gave her the same nickname she had gained downstairs, "Miss Thank-you,"
"Beg-your-pardon," and "If-you-please." But soon she found herself popular, and saw the girls,
and even the men, adopting the gentler ways she brought among them. They seemed half unconsciously
to fall into the soft manner they made fun of, which was a score for Win. Besides, there was
Cupid, and he alone, she thought, would have been worth the move from Blouses into Toys.

Cupid was an errand boy, employed to run with messages from one department to another; but,
though in Toyland there were some dolls larger, there were none more beautiful than he. His
real name happened to be Billy Slate, but he rejoiced in several others more appropriate such
as "Bud," "Christmas Card," and "Valentine" That of "Cupid" was added to the list by Miss Child,
who had more scientific, mythological knowledge of the youth in question than any one else
at the Hands perhaps, though most of the others could boast a more intimate personal acquaintance
with him in modern life.

Billy, alias "Bud," et cetera, was a permanent fixture at Peter Rolls's, having been in his
present position for some time and possessing no ambition to better it, though he had reached
the mature age of "twelve, going on thirteen." He had resisted the blandishments of all the
prettiest girls in the store, but for some reason fell a victim to Miss Child at first sight;
perhaps because she was English (his parents came from Manchester), or perhaps because she
treated him, not like a little boy, but like a man and an equal. He adored her promptly and
passionately, and she responded, out of which arose a situation.

Cupid sometimes received presents of violets or Malmaison pinks from admiring customers, gifts
which he spurned with the weary scorn of a matinée idol for love letters, but had been willing
to barter for sums varying from one cent to five, according to the freshness of the flowers.
When Win drifted into his life, however, all tribute which Cupid received was laid upon her
altar. He would take no money--her smiling thanks were worth more to him than the brightest
copper coins from others--and an offer of candy was politely but firmly refused.

"Pooh! Miss Child, I can get all of that stuff I want, on my face, off the girls in the candy
dep," he explained with a blasé air. "You keep it for you and your friends, and I'll get you
more. I'm tired of sweet things myself."

And from that time on Win's attenuated meals were eked out by Cupid's presentation chocolates
and marshmallows. Of the latter--a novelty to her--she and Sadie were very fond. They seemed
nourishing, too, or, at all events, "filling," and came in handy when you had allotted yourself
only five cents for luncheon. As soon as Cupid learned his loved one's penchant for marshmallows
he contrived to produce a few each day, even if he had to "nick" them when the "candy girls"
weren't looking.

The morning of Christmas Eve (the day which, Win knew, would decide her fate at the Hands)
Cupid appeared with a whole box of her favourites instead of the five or six crushed white
shapes he generally offered in a torn bit of clean paper.

"Why, Cupid, how did you come by this gorgeousness?" asked Win, who had half a minute to spare
in the luncheon lull.

"Don't you worry and get a wrinkle, kid," replied the youth, who had permission to apply any
pet name he pleased. "The stuff's mine, all right. And now it's yours. Unless you think I sneaked
it. Then you can chuck it away, box and all. See?"

"Of course I don't think you sneaked it. You wouldn't do such a thing. But--ought I to take
it? That's the question."

"'It's foolish question 786245,'" quoted Cupid with his weariest sneer. "I'm the guy what put
the nut in cokernut! I guess there'll be more where this come from in the sweet by and by."

Win eyed him anxiously. Now where had she heard that quotation about the "foolish question?"
Why, it was a slang phrase of Mr. Logan's. He had used it only that morning, about half an
hour earlier, in gay, bantering conversation with Miss Leavitt. He "blew in," as he called
it, nearly every day now to buy something more for his "little sister's Christmas tree," something
that he had forgotten yesterday, or to inquire earnestly after the sale of a mechanical frog,
which he claimed as his own invention and patent. He had never succeeded in getting Win to
serve him, but he was as free to look at her as a cat is free to look at a king.

Apart, however, from telling glances which Miss Child never seemed to see, Mr. Logan appeared
quite satisfied with the attentions of Miss Leavitt or Sadie Kirk, who had waited upon him
once or twice when Lily was not available.

Suddenly an idea flashed into Winifred's head.

"Did a man give you this box for me?" she inquired.

"Ain't I man enough?" Cupid tried bluff to hide a flush that mounted to his yellow curls.

"Answer me. You must."

"Ain't you some chicken to go on askin' silly questions about a good thing? You just take it,
kid, and be thankful"

"I can't, Cupid. I thought you liked me."

"You bet I do, sweetie."

"Then you wouldn't want to cheat me about such a thing, would you? I'm fond of you, Cupid,
and we're friends, so I can accept presents from you. But I don't take them from strange men,
and I should hate to feel you cared little enough for me to play such a joke. It would get
me misunderstood."

Flattered by this appeal to and acceptance of his manhood, Cupid confessed.

"Well, don't have the nasty old stuff, then," said he. "I thought I was doin' you a good turn.
Thought gells liked strange men makin' 'em presents. The feller said 'twould be good business
for you as well as me. And he tipped me fifty cents to pass you on the box. Suppose I must
hand it back to him now."

"Do, Cupid dear," urged Win. "But you shan't lose by that. I know you meant no harm, and I'll
give you fifty cents myself when I get my pay."

"What kind of a jay do you take me for?" snorted Cupid. "Men don't accept no lucre from ladies
where I live. I'll go chuck the guy back his marshmallers and his dirty money, since you put
it that way, my baby doll."

"Where is he? Waiting for you somewhere to hear the news?"

Cupid tossed his curls in the direction of the moving staircase, which in Toyland was known
as the "Oscillator." A bored-looking youth was stationed officially at the top in order to
catch any ascending lady who might threaten to fall; but as only the oldest and frailest ever
did so, his bored expression had become chronic.

"Chap's down at the foot o' that," confessed the boy. "But say, won't you just look and see
if there's a note under the cover? Maybe he's slipped in a Christmas gift of a hundred-dollar
bill or a diamond tiarey."

"I've no curiosity," said Win. "You may tell your friend that, and---"

"Oh, I know! Tell him he'd darned better not try the same snap again."

"Yes," laughed Win. "Exactly."

Cupid darted away with the box, striding down the "osculator" as it came rolling up, a feat
forbidden. But the boy was a law unto himself and was seldom scolded. When he had gone Win
wished that she had thought to ask how the man had found out her liking for marshmallows But
perhaps he had invited a suggestion from Cupid. Or the marshmallows might be a coincidence.

She did not for an instant doubt that the would-be giver was Mr. Logan, and she half hoped
there was a note inside the box, in order that he might feel the mortification of getting it
back unopened. She hoped, also, that the disappointment might be a lesson which Mr. Logan would
take to heart, and--unless he were prepared to transfer his attentions to Miss Leavitt or some
one else equally ready to receive them--that he would not again invade the busy land of toys.

An hour later, however, he returned and loitered about, ostentatiously waiting until Miss Leavitt
should be free to serve him. Win was showing dolls to a fussy woman who could not be satisfied
with the most beguiling porcelain or waxen smile. At last, having looked at several dozens,
she flounced away, announcing that she would go to Bimgel's. This threat, being uttered in
a voice intentionally shrill, was overheard by the hovering floorwalker, Mr. Tobias.

He had never yet had occasion to scold No. 2884; and, as a matter of fact, had noted her as
a "lively proposition." He had seen that if 2884 had a few minutes to spare, she usually occupied
them, not in polishing her nails or talking about last night's dance, as not a few of the girls
did, but in "looking over stock," peeping into boxes, and peering into the background of shelves
in order to see for herself what was available without having to question salespeople who had
been longer in the department than she.

This was the sure sign of a "winner"; and besides, 2884 had the right way with customers. She
kept her temper, even with the most irritating "lemons." Her charming enthusiasm about the
toys and her knowledge of their mechanism (when they had any) often hypnotized customers into
buying expensive things they had not intended to take. With remarkable quickness she had picked
up slang danger signals by which one "assistant" can warn another of impending trouble.

She understood the warning cry of "ishra ankra" for a "crank," and could give the pencil taps
telegraphing from counter to counter that a notorious "pill" or an "I'll-come-back-again" was
bearing down on the department. She seemed to know by instinct when she could offer to send
a toy C.O.D. for a stranger without fear of "cold pig"--having the thing returned unpaid--and
she could give enough of her own vitality to a tired woman to make her want to buy.

All these virtues Mr. Tobias had discerned in 2884, and with such heart as he had, he admired
her. He intended, if she went on as she had begun, to "set the good word going" which would
reach those "at the top." But now, at a moment when he happened through acute indigestion to
be in a particularly fretful mood, he believed that he had found out the "bright girl" in a
grave fault.

It was too late to inveigle the lost client back, but while Win was hastily replacing dolls
in boxes before taking another customer, Mr. Tobias pounced. "Why did you let that lady go
without showing her any of our best dolls?" he inquired, angling for guilt in her soul's depths
with a fishhook glare.

"I showed her everything of the price she wanted, and even some a little higher," 2884 excused
herself.

"What about the doll you all call 'Little Sister?'" Tobias threw out the question as if it
were a lasso. "I hear you've said that you won't part with that one if you can help it."

Win grew pink, though she firmly gave him back look for look. Little Sister was her favourite
doll, and it was an open secret that Miss Child didn't wish to sell it unless she could be
sure of finding it a suitable and happy home. In fact, she hated the thought of a sale. Many
Teddy bears and other interesting personalities she had learned to like, and to miss when they
went the way of all good Teddy animals; but Little Sister she loved, and to barter that adorable
sunny head, those laughing brown eyes and dimples, for money seemed almost as bad as the auctioning
of a child in the slave market. If she had had twenty dollars to play with she would have bought
the doll for herself. As it was, she had to plead guilty to Mr. Tobias's charge.

She changed her look of self-defence to one more deprecating yet half mischievous; not the
look of a scolded girl to an accusing floorwalker, but that of charming young womanhood to man.

"I'm so sorry," she said. "I didn't forget; but I felt sure that lady wouldn't spend twenty
dollars for a doll. And I know I can find a better--I mean, I know I can get some one to buy it."

"I'll buy it," said Mr. Logan, stepping up.

This time he had safely caught his tantalizing rainbow trout, which had not a chance even to
wriggle. There was 2884 without an excuse in the shape of another customer, and there was Tobias,
with whom, on the strength of the alleged "invention," Mr. Jim Logan had already scraped acquaintance.

The eyes of the girl and the man met. Logan saw that Miss Child had already guessed what he
meant to do, or that she thought she had. But he believed that he had a card up his sleeve
whose presence even her sharp wit had not detected. He looked forward joyously to the scene
about to begin.

"Get the doll I spoke of and show it to this gentleman," commanded Mr. Tobias, lingering to
see that he was obeyed, for there was that in the flushed face of 2884 which told him she was
capable of a trick.

Little Sister lived in a large, open-fronted box lined with blue silk and fluffy lace, in a
desirable but not too conspicuous (Win had seen to that!) corner of a shelf devoted entirely
to dollhood. There she stood now, the sweet, smiling child, the image of the ideal two-year-old
baby which every girl would like to have for her own "when I'm married."

In reaching up her hands to take down the box Win hesitated. Next but one was another doll,
not unlike Little Sister to the casual eye, especially the casual eye of a mere man. Its dress
was also white; its hair was of much the same gold, though not quite so radiant; its eyes were
as brown, if more beady; and it was larger, more elaborately gowned, therefore more expensive.
If Mr. Tobias recognized the difference, would he not praise rather than blame the saleswoman,
since instructions were to force high-priced articles on customers whenever possible?

Win darted a cornerwise glance at Tobias to see if he were suspiciously watching her. He was,
with the expression of a cloud about to emit a flash of forked lightning. Little Sister must
be sacrificed!

Just then, as Win reluctantly placed the box on the counter for Logan's twinkling inspection,
Cupid went by on one of the endless errands which, as he said, "kept him jerking up and down
all day like a churn." He knew Little Sister, for had not his beloved "Kid" ruffled his feelings
by remarking on a likeness between her pet doll and himself? Infra dig as was the comparison,
he had forgiven it when the Kid explained her affection for the type. Now that Fresh Guy who
had nearly "got him disliked" for fifty cents was going to buy the doll!

Cupid "spotted" the trick at once and saw its cleverness. The boy "made big eyes" at Win as
he stumped past, and wondered whether she "was fly enough to catch on" to what he wanted them
to say.

She was not. At that moment, when she found herself outwitted by Logan, Cupid's big hazel eyes
and yellow head seemed irrelevant.

"The price is twenty dollars," she announced mechanically. These were the first words she had
uttered to Logan since passing him on to Miss Leavitt the day of his first appearance in Toyland.

"That's all right," said her smiling customer. "Rather cheap for such a handsome doll, isn't
it? I think the young person I intend to give it to will be pleased, don't you?"

"I can't say, I'm sure," returned Miss Child with aggravating primness, her eyes cast down.

"Why, you might give me your advice!"

The glare of Mr. Tobias was turned upon her again, like a two-dollar electric torch.

"It's quite one of our prettiest dolls," she admitted under the searchlight.

"Good! I'm glad you think so. Well, here's the money, all in small bills, I'm afraid. Would
you mind just counting it over? I've got on my gloves."

She had to take the money from him, which gave him a chance to touch her hand, and he made
the most of it. If Mr. Tobias saw what was going on, he ignored it tactfully, for the great
thing was to keep a good customer at any price. If the price were a flirtation, why all the
better for the girl, provided the man were chump enough to give her a good restaurant dinner
now and then. Peter Rolls had to think of his dividends, since he and his manager were not
in business for their health, and to make them satisfactory salesfolk had to be got cheap.
It was "up to" the girls to take care of themselves. What they did out of business hours, Peter
Rolls and Mr. Tobias did not care and didn't want to know.

No. 2884 required the address, which Mr. Logan seemed eager to give.

"Write clearly, please," he gayly commanded. "Miss--Winifred--Child. And now the number of
the house. I know it as well as my own."

"I can't accept this," she said, not taken by surprise, because she had been sure all along
of what he meant. Only it came as a slight shock that he should have found out her whole name
and the street and house where she lived.

"But see here," argued Logan, still in the low tone to which both voices had fallen, "I bought
the doll for you when I heard you liked it. Why not? No harm in taking a doll from a friend."

"You're not a friend," she broke in.

"I want to be. What will that floorwalker chap say if Little Sister is thrown back on Peter
Rolls's hands? It might get you into trouble."

"I can't help that," Win was beginning desperately, when Earl Usher came hurrying up from the
other end of the department, where he had been selling automatic toy pistols.

"Excuse me, Miss Child," said he briskly, "but that doll is sold. I ought to have marked it,
but forgot. My fault. While you was away to lunch it happened. The purchaser is going to look
in to-night, between six and six-thirty, to pay and take the parcel away."

Mr. Tobias, hearing this announcement, came bustling into closer earshot again.

"Very remiss--very remiss not to have marked the doll as sold," he sputtered. "I don't think
we can let the deal stand. This gentleman has offered to purchase in good faith, and here's
his money. Your customer may as like as not go back on the bargain."

"He won't," said Ursus firmly. "It's a man. He's often here doing business. He'll be awful
mad, and we'll lose him certain sure if we throw him down like that. I'll be responsible."

"You!" sneered Tobias, impressed nevertheless. "Why, you ain't more than a ten-dollar man,
if you're that. This doll costs twenty dollars."

"I know, and I don't pretend to have saved up a million. But this mix-up is my fault, and the
man was my customer, so I ought to stand the racket. Look here," and he proudly drew forth
from some inner pocket on his enormous chest a handsome gold watch destitute of a chain. "Presentation,"
he announced. "You can see my name and the date. I've hocked this more'n once and got forty.
Will you keep it till my customer turns up?"

"No," returned Tobias magnanimously. "If you're so sure of your man, I guess it's all right,
and the sale'll have to stand. I'm sorry, Mr. Logan. But you see how it is. Can't one of our
young ladies show you something else?"

"No, thank you, not to-day," said Logan, his long, sallow face red and the twinkle gone out
of his eyes. "It was Little Sister or nothing for me."

But though he gathered up his mass of greenbacks and stalked away with his smart hat on the
back of his incredibly sleek head, Tobias was not greatly worried. The young swell was sweet
on Child, and wasn't above a flirtation with red-haired Leavitt at the same time he was trying
to spoon the English girl. He would come back, and soon--no fear!--to see how his invention
was going.

"Lordy! but that was a big bluff I put up!" sighed Earl Usher to Cupid, as he slid his watch
into the little boy's hand. "If Tobias had taken me, I'd 'a' bin up a tree! Sure you can get
off, sonny?"

"Dead sure, for they'll be sendin' me out. They always do. I'll manage the biz for you."

"Good Bud! You get a quarter for yourself, see?--for puttin' me on to the job in time."

Mr. Tobias happened to be at a distance when Usher's customer came in and paid. But when the
floorwalker inquired, at six-thirty--characteristically remembering a small detail in the terrible
Christmas rush--the transaction had been completed and Little Sister was gone. Even Win had
not seen the purchaser. Ursus had come in a hurry, his client's twenty dollars in hand, and
had taken away the box that contained the doll. There had not even been time to ask if the
man who had bought it looked kind and rich; but Win was too thankful to have been saved from
her "scrape" with Logan to care passionately, after all, for Little Sister's fate.

That night, a few minutes before ten o'clock, the employees of the various sections were lined
up (men in one aisle, girls in another) to receive their pay envelopes and, in most cases where
the "holiday extras" were concerned, their dismissals. Just in front of Winifred Child was
Sadie Kirk, and Win knew that for her friend it was a question almost as important as that
of life and death whether she were to stay or go.

After holiday time it was dreadfully difficult to get work, she not being the stuff of which
stewardesses are made, and Sadie had more pluck than physical strength. Never had she entirely
recovered "tone" after that attack of grippe which had lost her a good position, and the strenuous
work during these weeks at Peter Rolls's had pulled her down. If she were to be "out of a job"
things would be very bad for her; yet, as she moved up slowly, step by step, to the desk of
destiny, she was reading a novel, calmly straining her eyes in the trying light. Over her shoulder
Win could see the name of the book, "Leslie Norwood's Wife." Page after page Sadie turned,
not with a nervous flutter, but with the regularity which meant concentration. She was bent
on finding out what happened to Leslie Norwood's wife before the moment came to find out what
was about to happen to Sadie Kirk.

She was near the end now. But was she near enough? Win began, in her nervous fatigue and anxiety
on her own account, to wager with herself as to whether Sadie would finish that book before
her turn came to take the fateful envelope. Would she? Would she not? "I bet she will!" Win
thought. "If she does, it'll mean luck for us both!"

And she did. Just as the girl ahead of Sadie clasped her pay envelope with a slightly trembling
hand, Sadie read the last word on the last page, shut the volume, and tucked it under her arm.
Then she took her envelope and gave place to Win.

They were among the few lucky ones out of the extra two thousand. Most of the others received
with their pay little printed slips signed "Peter Rolls," announcing that it was "necessary
to readjust our force down to the normal at this time." Those dismissed were politely informed
that their record was on file. Should vacancies occur where they might be placed in future,
they would be "notified to that effect." Meanwhile they were thanked for loyal service. And--that
was the end of them as far as Peter Rolls was concerned.

He still had use, however, for Winifred Child, Sadie Kirk, Earl Usher, and two or three other
"live" workers in Toyland. They compared notes joyously; but despite her sense of relief, Win's
heart was heavy for those left out in the cold. The girls who were disappointed hurried away
in silence, but many of the men whom No. 2884 had not thought of as friends, scarcely as acquaintances,
came up to say good-bye. They held out their hands and remarked that they were "glad to have
known her."

Some of her ways and some of her sayings were pretty good, they guessed, and they wouldn't
forget her, although they didn't suppose that they'd ever meet again. Suddenly Win realized
that they had been kind and pleasant, so far as it had lain in their power, and she, staying
on, would miss the faces that were gone. She choked a little over these men's appreciation
of the difference between her "ways" and those of some other girls, and was half ashamed that
it should surprise her.

"I expect I'll have to take to the sea again," sighed the ex-steward. "I wanted a little more
time on land, but it ain't to be. Don't forget, you and your friend Sadie, that I can get you
jobs on one of the big greyhounds."

"What a Christmas Eve!" Win said to herself aloud, as she almost fell into her room at eleven-thirty.
"In half an hour more it will be Christmas, and I don't suppose there's one soul with a thought
for me in all Europe or America!"

But on the ugly red cover (warranted not to betray dirt) of the rickety bed were two parcels--a
big box and a little one. Somebody must have been thinking of her, after all!

Revived, she cut the strings on both boxes and opened the little one first, on the childlike
principle of "saving the best thing for the last."

"Lilies of the valley! Why, how lovely! Who could have sent them?" There was no name, and a
question asked itself in Win's mind that spoiled all her pleasure--but only for a moment. She
unwrapped the big box, and on the cover (which looked curiously familiar) she read, evidently
scrawled in furious haste, with pencil: "From Ursus to Lygia, with respectful regards and wishes
for a merry Christmas. Also please accept lilies."

(Miss Leavitt had testified her admiration for the blond giant by sending him a box of her
name flowers, bought with some of the "change" Mr. Logan had told her to keep. The admired
one had promptly "passed them on." But Win did not know this, and he didn't see why she ever
should. Anyhow, flowers were flowers!)

The girl was so pleased to know that the lilies came from Ursus, not another, that she could
almost have kissed them--but not quite. Then, in her relief, she lifted the cover of the large
box and gave a cry which was not unlike a sob. There, in silk and lace, with eyes closed and
smiling lips, lay Little Sister.

"Oh, his watch--his presentation watch!" she gurgled. And sitting on the bed, with the great
doll in her arms, she let fall on the unresponsive head a few tears of grief and gratitude.
She understood everything now, even the "big bluff."

What had been or had not been in Miss Leavitt's pay envelope Win did not know until the morning
after Christmas, that strangest Christmas of her life, which she spent resting quietly in bed.
Returning next day to Toyland, where everything looked half asleep in the early gloom, she
saw the glitter of red hair.

"Hello!" said Miss Leavitt. "Here we are again! Did you have a merry---"

She stopped short, her eyes fastened on a tiny spray of pearly bells half hidden in the folds
of the other's black silk blouse. For an instant she forgot what she had meant to say, gasped
slightly, closed her lips, opened them as if to speak, shut her teeth together with a snap,
swallowed heavily, and went on where she had broken off--"Christmas?"

Win thanked her, said "Yes," and asked politely how Miss Leavitt had spent her holiday. This
gave the girl with red hair time to control the temper which accompanied it. But if, in that
brief interval of uncertainty, she had burst out with the fierce insult which burned her tongue,
never again could she have ventured to claim friendship with Winifred Child. And if she had
lost her right to claim it, all the future might have been different for one of them.

CHAPTER XIX

"YES" TO ANYTHING

At last it was July, and New York felt like a vast hermetically sealed Turkish bath into which
all were free to enter, but once in, must remain, as there were no exits and no closing hours.
Most of the people you read about in the Sunday supplements (except those who commit murders
and such things) had escaped to the sea or mountains before the Turkish bath opened for the
summer. But there is never anything in Sunday supplements about the assistants in department
stores, for they are fashionable only in restricted districts, and they do not commit murders
and such things, though they might occasionally enjoy doing so.

It had been, said the newspapers, an exceptionally gay winter and spring. Seldom had there
been so many beautiful and important débutantes. Lovely girls and admiring men had decorated
each page of the calendar, like rose petals. There had been cup races for automobiles, and
football and baseball matches for men and girls, and other matches less noisy but almost as
emotional. There had been dinners and balls, first nights at the opera, Washington's Birthday
week-end house parties in the Adirondacks, and Easter church parades for those who had not
gone abroad or to Florida. Among those who chose Florida (there had been a great deal about
this in the Sunday supplements) were Miss Rolls and her brother. Ena had collapsed under an
alleged attack of grippe after Lord Raygan went away and his engagement with Portia (alias
"Pobbles") Gregory--the rich Miss Gregory--was announced. Some people were mean enough to say
that it was not grippe but grief which laid Ena low in the height of the season; and if there
was anything in this gossip, the grief would have been greater had Miss Rolls known that she
herself was (indirectly) responsible for the happy ending of Raygan's romance.

A letter written by Lady Eileen while at Sea Gull Manor to her cousin Pobbles had (so Pobbles
confessed later) suddenly opened the lady's eyes to her own true feelings. She began to wonder
if Rags had loved her "for herself," after all. And, anyhow, she didn't want a girl like Ena
Rolls to get him. So she met the ship on which Lady Raygan, Rags, and Eileen returned to Ireland,
in order to "make a dead set" at the man she had once discarded. An engagement was the consequence,
and in the first letter Rags wrote to thank his kind host and hostess on Long Island, he asked
for congratulations.

It was the same day that Ena began to sneeze so dismally that the only place for her was bed.
And when she could leave its seclusion the next only place was Palm Beach. She said she would
die unless she could go to Palm Beach, so mother took her, and Peter took them both, not to
speak of Ena's maid.

He did not wish to play courier. To turn his back on New York interfered seriously with his
plans and half plans and hopes and half hopes. But father would not go, and mother and Ena
could not without a man. Peter was the only one available at the moment, and it was April when
Ena felt well enough to face the North again. By this time the news of her engagement to the
Marchese di Rivoli had been copied from all the principal papers into the little papers, and
even the most confirmed cats must be acknowledging far and near that to lose an earl and gain
a marquis is a step up in life.

It was, of course, not ideal that the Marchese di Rivoli had no remaining family estates of
which his fiancée could talk, and there were creatures ready to swear not only that he had
come to Palm Beach to pick up an heiress, but that the penniless princess who introduced him
to Miss Rolls had received a commission. Still there are always family estates in the market,
and where a coronet is there is gossip also. Only the cat tribe start or believe it, and even
cats purr to a marchesa, lest they may want to visit Italy next year.

In the Turkish bath which was New York that July, Peter Rolls's department store was one of
the hot rooms. Miss Rolls did not come over from Long Island to choose her trousseau there,
as a badly informed newspaper announced that she would do. She went to London and Paris instead,
because it was cooler as well as smarter to put the Atlantic between her and "New York with
the lid off." She ran over with the divorced Italian princess who had made her acquainted with
the Marchese di Rivoli, and mother and Peter were released.

No doubt other big stores were as hot or hotter than Peter Rolls's that July; but it seemed
to Winifred Child that the Tropic of Cancer might have breezes which the Hands missed. Those
of the salespeople who did not look as if at any moment their eyes might come out and all their
veins burst, were living advertisements for Somebody's Anti-Anemia Mixture before the mixture
was taken. Win was of the latter type. She had become so pale and thin that Sadie Kirk compared
her to a celery stalk. Sadie herself had, according to her own criticism, "shrunk and faded
in the wash," but the two girls had now few chances of "passing remarks" on each other's appearance,
for, though Sadie was still in Toys, Win had been put into Mantles.

This in itself was a solution of the Meggison mystery. The girl's "cheek" had frightened the
would-be "dog" and reminded him that a model superintendent must never lose a born saleswoman.
But he had not sent for Win again, and Gloves were not for such as she.

Sadie, having "sauced" her landlady, found it wise to change her quarters. She had taken a
room in an apartment house two blocks removed from her former home, and Win, not being able
to afford a "flit," remained at the old address. At first, when her pay was increased by two
dollars a week, she had intended to save and follow Sadie. One had, however, to live mostly
on ice-cream soda in the hot weather, which cost money. Besides, even had she possessed the
dollars, she lacked energy of late. It was easier to keep on doing what one had done than do
anything new. And, in any case, nothing that one did seemed to matter.

As for the lion tamer, Peter Rolls's shop saw him no more. He had "got his nerve back" and
had returned to lion taming, not because the old life drew him irresistibly, but because there
was far more money in dominating real lions than in selling Teddy ones.

In the birth of Earl Usher's adoring love for Win the demise of the animal who had "died on
him" was forgotten. "Nerve" and courage and love and the desire to conquer were one in his
heart. When a "good summer job at Coney" came his way, through an old friend in the "show business,"
he took it.

Reluctant as he was to leave Peter Rolls, which meant leaving "his girl," a change of position
offered the only hope of obtaining her in the end. And despite every discouragement from his
Lygia, Ursus did secretly cherish this hope. As she no longer lived in Toyland when he went,
the wrench of parting was not what it would have been to leave her at the mercy of any man
who could afford to buy a doll. There was no excuse for men to "butt into" Mantles, unless
accompanied by female belongings, and thus accompanied, their sting was gone.

At Coney Island Ursus was earning thirty dollars a week instead of ten, and was encouraged
by crowds of admiring girls (who watched his performance and bought his photographs) to consider
himself exceedingly eligible on that income. Many indeed made it plain to him that he would
have been worth taking for his face, his muscles, and his spangled tights alone.

Sometimes on Sundays Sadie Kirk persuaded Win to "go to Coney for a blow." The crowd on the
boats was alarming and on the beach when you got there, but the air was splendid, and poor
Ursus beamed over his lions' heads with pride and pleasure. These few excursions, however,
had been Winifred's only outings, except a play or two seen from a gallery, since she came
to make her fortune in America; and as each day the heat pressed more heavily upon her with
its leaden weight, she felt that she would collapse and "do something stupid" if she could
not have a change. Anything--anything at all that was different and would break the monotony!

Lily Leavitt, who was in the Mantles, too, had never ceased to be friendly, and had often invited
Win to go out with her in the long summer evenings, but always in vain, month after month,
until one day in mid-July, when the heat wave had surged to its record height. It just chanced--if
there be such a thing as chance--to happen on the day when the girl's craving for a change
had become an obsession, almost an illness.

It was a little past noon, and the seniors in Mantles had gone out to lunch. They were rather
by way of being aristocrats, these seniors, for the mantle department, Jewellery, and some
others worked "on commission." Salaries were no larger than elsewhere, but a handsome percentage
was paid on sales; and those tigers and tigresses who were strong and ferocious enough to grab
meat from under their weaker comrades' noses did extremely well. The Mantles girls who had
gone out were champion tigresses. They could afford to eat at something like real restaurants,
and as there was nothing worth rushing back for, they would not return until the last moment.

Lily Leavitt, who was qualifying as a tigress, had just snatched a sale which ought to have
been Win's, but that did not count in their private relations. It was business, and Win was
"welcome to play the same game"--if she could. Only, there was no danger that she would. Win
was not of the stuff from which tigresses are made, and was incapable of seizing for herself
anything--be it a seat in the subway or the chance to sell a mantle--which some other human
creature was striving to get.

Win bore Lily no grudge for having "bagged" her customer and gained in three minutes three
dollars which should rightfully have found their way to her purse. She listened without resentment
to the description of a hat which Lily intended to buy with the money--a "sticker" it had proved
in Hats, and was now marked down to half price. Lily had had an eye on it for some time, and
would, of course, get it "ten per." off.

"I bought me a sweet party dress last week--a bargain," Miss Leavitt went on, seeing that Win
had no intention of "slanging" her for what she had just done. "It came outta commission on
that green chiffon evening cloak and that white yachtin' I snapped off Kit Vance when she was
daydreamin' and let me catch onto her customer like you done just now. Things is down to no
price this hot weather. It's an ill wind blows no one good, and now is us guyls' time to get
a bit of our own. P.R. always manages to make his hay, rain or shine. And even with our ten
per. off, it's forty per. profit for him. When you think there's two thousand folks forced
to buy on the premises, you savvy what he squeezes outta us! If we do pick up a bargain, it's
a rare chance. I wonder you don't hustle more'n you do and make enough com to buy yourself
sumpin' nice. Your sheryt waists are the wuyst in the dep, if you don't mind my sayin' so,
and the guyls speak of it. Now if you had a party dress to doll up in, I could give you the
time of your life to-night."

"Could you?" echoed Win, more in the desire to turn Miss Leavitt's attention from her "shirt
waist" to something else than because she wished to hear about the great opportunity.

Miss Leavitt had offered her numerous opportunities of alleged entertainment, none of which,
though glowingly described, had ever tempted her to acceptance. At first she had been afraid
of Lily's fruit and chocolates and theatre tickets, which, like the marshmallows, might have
come from Mr. Logan. But for the last three or four months, since the two girls migrated together
into Mantles, Logan had been conspicuously absent. Apparently he had not invented a cloak as
well as a toy! Win no longer connected Lily Leavitt's occasional invitations with him. Her
refusals were prompted merely by a disinclination for Lily's society out of business hours
and the conviction that her friends would be no more congenial than herself. Winifred now,
however, particularly wished to show her companion that she bore no animosity for the filched
commission, therefore she became loquacious.

"I don't need to spend my hard-earned dollars on a party dress, as it happens," she said. "I
can save all my pennies for the hire of my typewriter, which is going to lead me from the Hands
some day along the road to fortune. I've got the most gorgeous gown you can possibly imagine.
I don't believe Cinderella's godmother could give her anything better. There's only one trouble.
I shall never be invited to a party good enough for it."

"I've invited you to as swell a party as there could be in little old New York," boasted Miss
Leavitt. "I ain't foolin'. That's straight. Honour bright, cross my heart."

"Oh, but you didn't invite me. You said you would if I had a dress. You've got only my word
for that," Win reminded her.

"I meant to invite you all the same, dress or no dress," Lily confessed, "I'd o' lent you one.
Have you really got something swell? If you have, now's your chance to show it off. It's an
artist gives this party. I sit to artists sometimes, Sundays, for my hair. I guess you offen
seen it on covers o' magazines. This artist friend o' mine's the best o' the whole bunch."

"Man or woman?" Win wanted to know.

She expected the answer to be "man," but Lily did not seem to hear. Her face looked dreamy.

"It's the loveliest house where the party'll be," she said. "'Tain't the artist's own. It's
some relation's that's lent it for the summer while they're away at the seashore. I bin there.
It's in the Fifties, just off Fift' Av'noo. Tonight it'll be cool as snow, and everything'll
be iced for supper. Iced consummay, chicken salad cold as the refrigerator, iced champagne
cup flowin' like water; ice-cream and strawb'ries, the big, sweet, red ones from up north,
where they keep on growin' all summer, and lilies and roses from the country to give away to
us when we go home."

Win forgot the question that had not been answered. She seemed to see those strawberries and
to smell the sweetness of roses and lilies in a house "as cool as snow."

"Heavenly!" she sighed. "I didn't remember there were such things in the world!"

"Well, come with me to-night and remind yourself," coaxed Miss Leavitt. "You needn't be afraid,
because I said it was artists, to butt into some rowdy crowd. They'll be as quiet and refined
as mice. They're more your kind than mine, I guess."

"But who invites me?" Win made another bid for information.

"My artist friend said I could bring any one I wanted to bring, and I want to bring you. I
don't just know who all'll be there, but I guess not many, and it's a real swell house to see.
You always refuse everything I ask you to, but I do think you might say yes this one time and
show you're not proud and stuck up. It'd do you good!"

"I believe it would, and I'll go!" cried Win. She was in the mood to say "yes" to anything.

"Hully gee! That's the best thing's happened to me since the measles!" exclaimed Miss Leavitt
jovially. "I'll call for you at your place half-past nine this evening, so you can have a good
rest before you begin fixin' yourself up."

"It's an engagement," said Win, with a kind of self-defiance.

She had wished for a change, "anything for a change," and presto! her wish had been suddenly
granted by fate. Rather spitefully granted, it would seem, because to go to a "party" with
Lily Leavitt was the very last thing she would have chosen. And spitefully, also, as if to
punish her own foolishness in wishing, she accepted such goods as the gods had mischievously
provided.

"You've said yes, and now you must stick to it," she told herself in preparation for a wave
of regret, but to her surprise the day wore on and the expected tide of repentance did not set in.

The girl realized that she was looking forward, actually looking forward to the evening. It
would be like walking wide awake into the Hall of Dreams to put on a dress beautiful enough
for a princess, and eat ice-cream and big red strawberries in a house "cool as snow" instead
of sitting in her hot bedroom practising on the hired typewriter or panting on her bed, dead
to everything in the world except a palm-leaf fan.

When she had been a little girl, invited to children's parties, it had not been of the slightest
importance whether she liked the child or not. The party was the thing. Now history was repeating
itself in her nature. The blank monotony of life and work had given back that childish eagerness
for fun, no matter whence it came. She did not care whose ice-cream and strawberries she was
going to eat, provided she got them and they were good. Besides, it would be like finding an
old lost friend to look into her mirror (it was cracked and turned one's complexion pale green,
with iridescent spots; but that was a detail) and see a bare-necked, white-armed girl in evening
dress.

There was a new way of doing the hair which Win had noticed on a smiling wax beauty in Peter
Rolls's Window-World and had dimly wished to try for herself. Only dimly, because if her hair
were glossy and trim it suited those plain, ninety-eight-cent shirt waists better than the
elaborate fashions affected by Lily Leavitt and one or two of the more successful tigresses
who cheaply copied expensive customers. Now there was an incentive for the experiment and Win
laughed at the eagerness with which she looked forward to the moment of making it, laughed
patronizingly, as she might have laughed at a child's longing for Christmas.

"Anyhow, it's something that I can laugh," she thought, recalling, as she often did, her boast
to Peter Rolls, Jr. "And I haven't cried yet!"

She had not guessed how vividly the sight of the Moon dress and putting it on would bring Mr.
Balm of Gilead to her mind. But as she stood gazing into the greenish glass, with her hair
very successfully done in the new way and the Moon gown shimmering night-blue and silver, it
was as if Peter Rolls came and looked over her shoulder, their eyes meeting in the mirror.

Yes, she saw him for an instant as clearly as that. He was there. He was her friend, the nicest,
most altogether delightful man she had ever seen; the one she knew best and needed most, though
their actual acquaintanceship was but a few days old. The kind blue eyes were true and brave,
and said: "I dare you not to believe in me, as I believe in you!"

Then the vision (it had almost amounted to that) was gone like a broken bubble. Win felt physically
sick, as if the one thing worth having in the world had been shown her for a second, then suddenly
snatched away forever.

The silvery sheen and the faint, lingering perfume of that Nadine model gown had woven a magic
carpet of moonbeams and transported her back to the mirrored room on the Monarchic for an instant.
But it was only for an instant. Then the Columbus Avenue bedroom, with its window open to the
roar and rush of the "L," had her again, and made the Moon dress and the Moon-dress dreams
seem ridiculously unsuited to life.

Win touched a switch which shut off light from the one unshaded electric bulb hanging like
a lambent pear over her head. Then, palm-leaf fan in hand, she sat down in the blue summer
darkness to await the coming of Miss Leavitt.

For the first time she repented her promise to go out. Monotony was preferable to the party
as she pictured it--a silly, giggling crowd of crude young people among whom she, the stranger,
would be like a muted note on a cheap piano. Should she stay at home, after all, and tell Lily
that the heat had made her too limp to stir? It would be quite true. But no. If she stayed
she would not have the courage to undress for a long, long time. She would just sit there in
the dark by the window in the Moon gown, its perfume surrounding her with the past, shutting
her up, as it were, in the mirror room with Mr. Balm of Gilead who had never really existed.

Yet, had he not? What had the eyes in the cracked glass said just now? Why shouldn't she believe
them instead of Ena Rolls's dreadful hints? Why might not a sister, even with the best intentions,
be mistaken about a brother?

These were exactly the sort of questions that were upsetting and altogether useless to ask
one's self, and Win jumped up to turn on the electric light again. She would go with Lily Leavitt!

Five minutes later a taxicab--a real, live, magnificent, unthinkably expensive taxicab--stopped
and chortled in front of the apartment house in which Mrs. McFarrell's flat was one of many.
Heads flew out of windows, for the thing was unbelievable, and among other heads was Win's.

Instinct cried that the chortling was for her. The balcony where the rubber plants had died
and mummied themselves, being scarcely more than a foot wide, she was able to see a face, crowned
with red hair and white as a Pierrette's in the lights of the street, looking anxiously up
from the cab window. Its expression implored the guest to hurry down, because each heart-throb
meant not a drop of red blood, but several red cents. Win caught the message, and seizing the
ancient though still respectable evening cloak which had spent months in a trunk with the "New
Moon," she flew downstairs.

"What an extravagant creature!" she gasped, breathless when after a wasted sixty seconds at
most the taxi was en route.

"I had a present from a gentleman friend," said Lily in a self-satisfied voice, adding hastily,
in deference to Miss Child's "stuck-up primness," "a filopena present, to choose myself anything
I liked with. I thought us bein' in party dress, and you sort o' tired out, a taxi'd be just
about the best thing goin'."

This reduced Win to the necessity for gratitude, and after months of the "L," the subway, and
the crosstown car, the girl could not help revelling in a taxi. She refused to be depressed
by the gloomy spectacle of lower-class New York in the throes of a heat wave--pallid people
hanging out of windows or standing at corners to be eased of their torture by the merciful
spray from fire hydrants; barefooted half-naked children staring thirstily at soda fountains
in bright, hot drug stores they could never hope to enter--every one limp, lethargic, glistening
unhealthily with horrid moisture, all loathing themselves and indifferent to each other. Sometimes
Win felt that these were her true brothers and sisters, the only ones who could understand,
because they were the only ones who really suffered; but to-night she dared not think of them.
If she did, because of what they endured she could not enjoy the ice-cream and strawberries
in the snow coolness of the artist's borrowed house.

New York not being her own city, its different divisions lacked for her the meaning and importance
they had for those at home; therefore she was disappointingly calm when Lily made the taxi
stop in front of a house only three or four doors off Fifth Avenue. Miss Leavitt had the fare
ready, with a small tip for the driver, and the two were out of the cab, standing in the street,
before Win noticed a thing that struck her sharply and quickly as being very strange.

"Why!" she exclaimed, "we must have come to the wrong place. All these houses are shut. Their
doors and windows are boarded up!"

CHAPTER XX

THE CLOSED HOUSE

"It's all right," said Lily. "Don't you remember I told you the house was lent to my artist
friend by the folks who own it and who've gone away for the summer to the seashore? The front
door and windows were boarded up, I guess, like they always are, before the house was lent.
My friend lives in the back part, and the caretaker looks after everything, but it's awful
nice. You needn't be afraid you're goin' to waste your grand dress. Say, it's some swell street,
ain't it?"

Lily talked fast and slid an arm through Win's in the thin silk kimono cloak, encouraging her
to mount the steps. But Win objected to being hustled. She paused to look up at the house front
which--like all its neighbours except a big, lighted building at the corner, that had the air
of being a club--had apparently been put to sleep for the summer months.

The dark-brown façades were expressionless as the faces of mummies. Smooth boards had been
neatly fitted into the window frames and made to cover front doors. There seemed at first glance
to be no way in, but as Winifred slowly ascended the steps of the fourth house from the corner,
she made out the lines of a little door cut in the boards which protected the big one. There
was no handle to break the smooth, unpainted surface of wood--old, well-seasoned wood which
had evidently served the same purpose year after year--but there was a small, inconspicuous
keyhole, and into this Miss Leavitt deftly fixed a key which she took from her hand bag.

"My friend sent me this," she explained, "to save us waiting, 'cause there's only one servant,
and he might be busy. Say, this is real fun, ain't it?"

"It's--it's quite like a sort of adventure," Win answered "I had no idea the house would be
shut up, or---"

"It'll make it all the cooler," said Lily. She had got the little door open, and the space
between it and the house door it protected could be seen in the street lights, like a miniature
vestibule. "Squeeze in and feel around till you find the electric bell," she went on. "Some
one'll open the real door, and I can lock up behind us."

"Why lock up?" argued Win, hesitating. "Aren't there others coming?"

"My, yes, unless they're all here. But it wouldn't do to leave a cover-up door like this standing
open. If the police happened along and saw, they'd think there was something wrong and make
my friend a whole lot of bother."

Win saw the force of this explanation, and stooping to pass through the low aperture, found
herself close to a pretentiously carved portal. The electric bell revealed itself to groping
fingers, and to her surprise a few seconds after she had touched it, without hearing a sound,
the door opened.

In the dimness of a hall or large vestibule the figure of a man loomed black against dark gray.
Win could see of him only that he was tall and straight and prim, like a well-trained servant,
and his voice was a servant's voice as he said: "Please be a little careful, miss, not to trip.
We have to keep it rather dark here, but there's plenty of light inside Let me show you through
the hall."

Win thanked him, but turned inside the door to ask: "Aren't you coming, Miss Leavitt?" (They
had never been upon Christian name terms.)

"Yes, I'm just turning the key," replied Lily. "Go along. I'll follow."

Win went on through the dusk, dimly seeing panelled walls. She heard the door shut sharply
behind her and supposed that Lily had come in, but at the same instant another door opened
ahead and a soft wave of rosy light flowed out.

"Walk in, if you please, miss," requested the tall servant standing attentive, and mechanically
Win obeyed.

Lily Leavitt had not exaggerated--this was a "swell house," and "cool as snow." The room into
which she had been ushered was a dining-room, and at first glance was all one rosy glow--walls,
drawn curtains, thick, mossy carpet, brocade-upholstered furniture, lamps and candle shades.
The table was a shining bunch of lilies in a garden of deep-red roses seen at sunset, and the
glitter of silver and gleam of glass was a bright sprinkle of dewdrops catching the red western
light.

It was so long since Win had been in a pretty room or had seen a charmingly decorated table
that for a few seconds she lost herself in the sheer joy of beauty. The sunset-garden simile
flashed into her mind and pleased her. She was glad that she had come. The guests might be
uninteresting, of the Lily Leavitt sort, and the artists might be so called only by themselves.
The room might be over-gorgeous by daylight, but it was beautiful thus lighted, with a rosy
radiance from above, bringing out the whiteness of damask, the snow purity of camellias crowding
a crystal bowl, and the ruby splendour of strawberries piled on their own leaves.

What a wonderful sight after months of the Hands restaurant and free lunches with five-cent
chocolate in busy drug stores! Oh, yes, she was glad she had come, and she must look, look,
look at this beautiful picture, so that she might remember its details and hold it before her
eyes, like a delicately painted transparency, in front of future realities.

But it was in carrying out this intention, in taking in the details, that Win's heart suddenly
bounded and then missed a beat. The table had two chairs drawn up to it. It was small and round,
and on it only two places were laid.

Win turned her head and looked for Lily Leavitt. Lily was not there, neither was the tall,
respectable servant. But a smiling man in evening dress was just coming into the room with
the ingratiating air of one who is a little late for an appointment.

"How do you do, Miss Child?" Jim Logan cordially inquired, holding out his hand. "This is mighty
good of you!"

A thousand thoughts whirled after each other through the girl's head, like the mechanical horses
on a circular toy race course, such as she had often sold at Peter Rolls's. Round and round
they wildly turned for an instant, then began to slow down.

This house was closed for the summer. The front was boarded up, and perhaps the back windows
also. No lights could be seen, and probably no sounds heard. Two places only were laid for
supper. Lily, then, had gone--had always meant to go and leave her here, had been bribed to
bring her and go. Oh, but it must have been a big bribe this time, for surely Lily Leavitt
would never dare look her in the face again! One of them would have to disappear from the mantle
department of the Hands. Was Logan giving Lily enough money to make up for a sacrifice of all
those commissions, or did Lily think that after to-night she--Winifred Child--would never come
back to Peter Rolls's?

As that question asked itself loud bells jangled in Win's head. She felt as if she were losing
her senses. But no, she must not--must not do that. Never in her life had she so much need
to keep them all as now, in this locked house, where she had no help to hope for save what
her own wits might give, and no one could hear or see what happened to her except this smiling
man and his well-trained servant. For all outside this was an empty house.

She steadied herself, the more readily because something in the narrow eyes twinkling into
hers said that Jim Logan had expected her to scream and make a scene. Never until now had she
imagined it possible to be afraid of him. In the park, when he had stopped his car to follow
and speak to her, she had been a little startled, a good deal annoyed. Then, when Ursus had
opportunely arrived to frighten him away as easily as the Spider frightened Miss Muffet, she
had been impishly amused.

In Toys at Peter Rolls's she had been vexed, irritated, but never hotly angry. The young man's
persistence had not seemed serious enough to call "persecution." She had rather enjoyed "shunting"
him off upon Lily Leavitt, and thwarting him through Cupid and Earl Usher. It had never occurred
to her that behind the unfailing smile and the twinkling gray eyes the brutal ferocity of the
animal might lurk.

She had thought that he had forgotten her long ago and turned his attentions elsewhere. What
girl, unless silly and Victorian, would be afraid of a dude who lived for the sleekness of
his hair and the spick-and-spanness of his clothes? Yet now Win was afraid, and she did not
think it was because she had suddenly become silly or Victorian. This aquiline-faced young
man with the prominent jaw was looking at her as the primitive brute looks at the prey under
his paws, and if he smiled and twinkled, it was but as the primitive brute might purr.

Winifred thought of this, and she thought, too, that when the prey had presence of mind to
feign sleep or death the brute was said not to kill, after all.

She did not put her hand into the hand that Logan held out, but neither did she turn to run
from him. "This is quite a surprise," she remarked quietly.

"A pleasant surprise, I hope," he suggested.

"A sort of practical joke, I suppose," the girl said.

"Well, yes, that's just what it is," Logan smiled, evidently wondering at her calmness and
not sure whether to take it as a good or bad omen. "It seemed to be the only way I could get
you to accept any invitation of mine."

"Rather a high-handed way!" said Win, shrugging her shoulders. "Still--here I am. This seems
to be a nice house. Is it yours?"

"It's my father's. We're all supposed to be somewhere else for the summer. But I run in sometimes.
My servant looks after me. He's as devoted as the servants in books. I pay him to be. There's
nothing I want done that he wouldn't do."

"He appears to have made you a very nice supper." Win's eyes rested on the table.

"Nothing could be too good for you. If I've got you here--well, sort of under false pretences--there'll
be no false pretences about anything else now I have got you. There's a little surprise in
those flowers by your plate. I hope you'll like it."

"A peace offering?" suggested Win lightly.

"Yes. And a love token. You know I've been in love with you, you bewitching thing, just madly
in love, since that night in the park. I never rested till I saw you again at Peter Rolls's.
And then I knew I couldn't rest until---"

"Wait!" exclaimed Win, putting out both hands to hold him off as he came close. "Wait--please!"
She still spoke lightly. "I'm your guest. I quite understand that 'might makes right!' But
there's another law--the law of hospitality, isn't there? This is--a great adventure. Let me
get into the spirit of it before you say or do any more. Give me time--to breathe. Where may
I put my cloak? Perhaps you've a long mirror somewhere? I want to see if I'm beautiful enough
for my background."

Logan yielded to the hands which pushed him away. It charmed him that this tall, spirited creature
was taking things in a debonair way. He thought it splendid that she should talk of an adventure
and of entering into the spirit of it. If she had made a fuss and tried to escape and refused
to eat supper with him, there would have been some pleasure in conquering, but not the same
pleasure there would be in a jolly little supper with a pretty girl who gayly acknowledged
that the "joke was on her," and then making love to her afterward.

Not that he quite trusted the strange creature yet. She might be like a kitten that submits
to be petted while lying in wait for its chance to spring. But this kitten might lie in wait
as long as it liked. The chance to spring wouldn't come. By and by the kitten would discover
that fact if the hope were in its mind, for he meant business this time.

"There's a room next door my mother and sister use for their boudoir," he said graciously.
"It's full of long mirrors, and you can have all the electric light you want, but the furniture's
covered up. The dining-room and my den are the only places that are shipshape, I'm afraid."

Logan walked out into the hall and threw open one of the doors that opened into it. "Here you
are!" he announced, switching on a blaze of electric light that showed a small room shrouded
in white covers. "The first thing you see is a life-size picture of yourself. I guess that's
what you want."

"You have guessed right. You deserve a prize," Win answered.

In the lighted boudoir a mirror faced the door.

"Will you give me a few minutes to myself?" she asked. "I may just as well confess that this
surprise of yours has--gone to my head a little, as your champagne probably will--when I drink
it. The hot weather has been taking it out of me horribly, and I'm not very strong. If I may
sit still for five minutes and shut my eyes and think, why--I'm sure I shall be a more amusing
guest at supper."

Logan, who had touched the electric-light switch inside the door, stood on the threshold, barring
the way. Win did not try to push past him, nor did she show any impatience, nor even eagerness.
He stared her in the eyes as if to ask: "What trick do you hope to play, I wonder? Do you think
I'm such a blamed idiot as to leave a way out open after all the trouble and expense I've put
myself to on your account?"

But being perfectly sure that there was no way out, no trick in her power seemed worth worrying
about--unless she had some melodramatic little bottle of poison concealed about her which she
would drain and die, like the heroine of an old-fashioned play. He was certain that the brave,
vital young creature who had seized his fancy would do nothing of the kind, however, and he
felt that it was safe to humour her.

"You can even go to sleep on the sofa, if you like, provided you'll promise to dream of me,"
he said, "and if you'll let me come and wake you up. Oh, I've caught you looking at the keyhole!
There's no key in it, you see, for me to lock you in--or for you to lock me out."

"Neither of us would be so medieval, would we?" she laughed. "That would be a silly way to
begin the evening. Now that I am here I am going to make the very, very best of it, I promise you!"

"That's right! You're the girl of my heart!" said Logan, and, stepping away from the door,
let her walk into the lighted boudoir.

Gently and slowly, almost coquettishly, she shut him out, smiling into his face until the oak
panels had closed between him and her.

CHAPTER XXI

THE TELEPHONE

The boudoir was stuffy and smelled of moth powder With its ivory-white walls and masses of
sheeting it looked crudely bright in the glare of electricity switched on by Logan. A glance
at the closed bay window showed that outside the glass was a screen of unpainted wood. There
was no door save that through which Win had just entered.

All the furniture was pushed against the walls, except a writing-desk with gilded legs, which
stood in the embrasure of the big window, and to this the girl ran softly, on tiptoe, across
the bare parquet floor. It was covered with sheeting, which she turned carefully back that
nothing might be disturbed and, in falling, make a noise. Almost she had reached the limit
of her strength and had no breath even to whisper the "Thank heaven!" she felt, seeing what
she had prayed to find--a telephone and directory.

It was the hope of this that had upheld her through the scene which already seemed dreamlike.
But though telephone and book were here, she was far enough yet from being out of danger. She
had not seen the house number, as the boards which covered the front door covered it also.
Knowing the street and the name of the man who owned the house (if Logan had told the truth),
she could find the telephone number in the book, but it meant a waste of time.

And then, Logan might have lied. This might not be his father's house. Or, if it were, the
telephone might have been cut off for the summer in the family's absence. She could not be
sure of that till the last moment, for the instant Logan heard her talk he would try to tear
her away from the telephone. If only there were a key or a bolt--the frailest, slightest bolt,
just strong enough to keep the man out for five minutes! But it was useless to wish for what
could not be. She must do her best with the ammunition at hand, and be quick about it, for
here was her fort of refuge, and she must hold it while she fired her one shot.

On the desk lay a large tortoise-shell paper knife. That, thrust under the door as a wedge,
would be almost as good as a lock. At least she might count on it to protect her for those
so necessary five minutes. But if she pushed it through to the other side Jim Logan would see
the flat, brown blade stick out like a defiant tongue over the door sill, if he were in the
hall keeping watch. Knowing that she could not escape, perhaps he had returned to the dining-room,
perhaps he was giving instructions to his servant--perhaps any one of a dozen things, yet she
could not count on any of them!

She took the paper knife, and holding it firmly by its carved handle, she put the blade under
the sole of her foot and thus snapped it off short.

The thick end, still attached to the handle, was just not too thick to push part way under
the door. Win could only hope that it might hold when need came.

Now for the book! As she began turning over the pages she found that her hands were trembling.
She had to repeat the alphabet from the beginning before she could remember where the letter
"L" came in.

Yes, there was the name--Logan. There were many Logans, but only one in this particular street.
With a blunt pencil attached to a small writing-pad she scribbled down the telephone and house
number to have them before her eyes, lest in her frantic excitement she might confuse the two
in her mind.

These preparations made, the girl's heart quickened as the fateful moment came. The prompt
response from Central was heavenly music. The Logan family had not studied economy and cut
off their telephone. "Give me the nearest police station quick!" she added to the number, and
at the sound of an hysterical note in her voice Logan's hand was on the door knob.

If the wedge failed she was lost. But bending over the desk, the receiver at her ear, she dared
not turn to see what was happening.

"You young devil! Let me in, or you'll be sorry all your life!" Logan shouted through the door,
giving the heavy oak panels a kick.

"Is that the police?" Win spoke loudly that Logan might hear. She gave the number of the house,
then hurried on: "For God's sake send at once. The house is shut up, but by a trick a girl
has been brought in by young Mr. Logan. She's in great danger. It's she who is calling--begging
for help--quick--quick--he's here!"

Crash! The door flew wide and banged against the wall, Logan almost falling into the room as
the wedge shook loose. Slipping on the smooth parquet, he lost his balance for an instant,
and before he could reach the girl to snatch the receiver from her hand, she had dashed through
the door and into the hall. There she would have been stopped by the servant if she had not
dodged under his arm and darted into the dining-room. Once in, she slammed the door shut in
the face of Logan's man, and fumbled wildly to turn the key her trembling fingers found.

Something was wrong--or else it was the fault of those shaking fingers. The key would not turn.
Win set her shoulder to the door and pushed against the panels with the whole strength of her
slim body. But it was not enough. The door gave and pushed her back. Then, realizing that she
could not hold it against superior force, she suddenly let go and ran to stand at bay behind
the table.

When Jim Logan, all the latent brutality in him wide awake, came bounding over the threshold
she faced him across his silver and flowers and glittering glass.

"Come here!" he said in a voice curiously unlike the jovial tones she had known as his.

"No!" she panted. "I'll stay where I am till the police arrest you as a kidnapper."

"You'll not stay!" he flung at her. "If you won't come out of that, I'll fetch you."

The girl stood behind one of the two chairs drawn up to the table and both hands convulsively
clutched the high, carved back. But seeing him spring toward her, she lost her nerve for the
first time. Trying to make a screen of the chair, she felt the floating gauze of her dress
catch on some unseen nail or splinter of broken woods struggled to tear it free, and found
herself in Logan's arms. The shrill sound of ripping stitches and tearing gauze mingled with
the sharp blow of the girl's palm on the man's ear, and his oath breathed hot on her cheek.

"You fool, do you think I wish to keep you after what you've done?" he blurted out. "All I
ask is to be rid of you before those fellows get here. I thought I'd have one kiss--but I wouldn't
take it now if you gave it to me. Sims, run down into the basement and let her out that way.
Now, you young devil, after him, if you don't want to be choked and buried in the cellar."

Hardly knowing what she did, Win obeyed. Tripping in the rags of her torn gown, she followed
the man, who opened a door that led to a narrow stairway. Next came a vague vision of a basement
corridor and a disordered kitchen. A minute later she was pushed into a dark area, a door was
shut behind her, she was stumbling up some stone steps; then, hurrying along the street as
fast as she could go, conscious only that danger was behind her, that she must fly from it
and put a long distance between her and that closed house.

If Win had known that the door had shut upon Jim Logan also, and that he had walked out of
the house almost on her heels, she would have hurried even faster. But she did not know. And
luckily he took the opposite direction, making straight for the New Cosmopolitan Club at the
corner, which she had noticed when passing in the taxi.

Hardly five minutes after he had interrupted his guest in her call to the police, Jim Logan
was inquiring of the hall porter whether Mr. Fred Fortescue had come in that evening.

"He came, sir, but has gone out again," replied the man, thinking that the immaculate Mr. Logan--one
of the best-dressed, best-groomed members of the New Cosmopolitan--appeared to be feeling the
heat severely.

"Jove, I'm sorry to hear that," and Logan's expression confirmed his words. "I wanted to see
him badly. Let me think. Who else is here? What about Mr. Pindar?"

"Hasn't been in, sir, for weeks," was the reply.

"Gee!" muttered Logan. He seemed worried, and in the brilliant light of the fine hall--white-panelled,
and hung with clever caricatures of well-known men--his face was pale and even drawn. He looked,
it occurred to the hall porter (a man of imagination), rather like a caricature of himself,
not so well coloured as those on the walls. Evidently conning the names of friends who might
be useful in an emergency, Logan's eyes were fixed on the stairway, as if thence inspiration
or salvation might come. He had the air of having sent his astral body hastily upstairs to
reconnoitre the reading and smoking room, but at that minute Peter Rolls, Jr., appeared on
the landing, and Logan and his astral body joined forces again.

"Hello, Rolls!" he called out. "You're just the man I want. Will you do me a great favour in
a big hurry?"

Petro, whose inmost self had also been absent on some errand, came to earth again with a slight
start. "Hello!" he echoed, hastening his steps.

He did not care much for Logan, who had been a classmate of his at college, and whose acquaintance
he had not cultivated since. Still he had nothing against the fellow except that he was a "dude"
and something of an ass, whose outlook on life was so different from Petro's that friendship
was impossible. They met occasionally at the New Cosmopolitan Club, of which they had both
been members for some years, and at houses where their different "sets" touched distantly.
If they talked at all, they talked of old times, but each bored the other. Petro, however,
could never bear to refuse any one a favour, even if granting it were an uncongenial task.
This peculiarity was constitutional and too well known for his comfort.

"What do you want me to do?" he asked in a tone polite, but void of personal interest.

"To come home with me quick and get me out of a horrid scrape. No trouble for you--but a lot
for me without a pal to see me through. I won't keep you more than a few minutes, if you're
engaged anywhere."

"I'm not engaged. But--" Petro began, only to be cut short.

"Come along, then, for the Lord's sake. Tell you everything when we're there." And taking Rolls
affectionately by the arm, the other rushed him out of the club.

"House shut up, you know. But I stay there. My man'll let us in the basement way, if you don't
mind," Logan explained disjointedly as they hurried along the street to the dwelling four doors
away.

Sims, obedient to instructions flung at him over his master's shoulder when the girl had been
let out, now awaited Logan's return at the tradesmen's entrance. The two young men were admitted
and the door locked behind them. A minute more and they were in the rosily glowing dining-room,
where the white table still offered attractive refreshment.

"Sit down," said Logan, and as he said it a great knocking began somewhere.

Listening in surprise, Petro forgot to accept the invitation--which might have been more tempting
if he had not, about half an hour ago, finished dinner. Logan repeated the words, however,
and even pulled out a chair for Petro, who took it. Logan seized the other, and Petro, following
his host's example, drew up to the table. Still the pounding went on, more loudly than before,
if possible. It began to seem rather like something in a play when you had missed the first
scene and didn't quite understand what it was all about.

"I think, sir, it's some one at the door," calmly announced Sims, raising his voice decorously,
to be heard over the noise. "Shall I see who it is, or shall I let them knock and go away?"

"See who it is, and if it's the police, make no objection to their coming in. Be surprised,
but not frightened, and say Mr. Logan has a friend supping with him. Savvy?"

"Yes, sir," responded Sims, and vanished.

"No time to let you into this stunt on the ground floor," went on Logan. "But I will as soon
as the turn's over. For all sakes, keep mum while I talk."

Before Petro could answer, if he had an answer ready, there were deep voices in the hall. Then
the door was opened by Sims, and two plain-clothes policemen stepped briskly in.

"Hello! What's up? House on fire?" exclaimed Logan, pausing in the act of handing a dish of
iced caviar to his guest.

"We're not from the fire department," said the elder and smarter looking of the pair, civilly,
yet with a certain grimness. "I guess you know that well enough. We've been sent here on a
hurry call on your 'phone to the police--a girl supposed to be detained in the house against
her will." And keen eyes took in the details of the room.

Logan broke into a jovial guffaw. "Girl? Well, of all--the freak--stunts!" he chortled. "Say,
Rolls, are you the great female impersonator? Ha, ha!"

"Sorry to interrupt you and your friend," remarked the detective, still grimly, though he had
caught and been slightly impressed by the name of Rolls, as the speaker had, perhaps, intended.
Logan as a name also carried some weight in New York. One was not rude to a Logan until sure
how far and fast duty compelled one to proceed. "But I gotta ask you straight whether there's
a girl in this house, and you'd better answer the same way."

Logan stopped laughing. "Really, I thought at first you were some of the fellows from the club
got up in disguise for a joke," he said. "Of course I'll answer you straight. There's no girl
in this house so far as I know, and hasn't been since my sister went away with the rest of
the folks, 2d of June. I can't think how such a--but gee! yes, I can! The silly old sucker!
I bet it's a put-up job."

"What d'ye mean?" the plain-clothes man wanted to know.

"Why, does the name of Frederick Doland Fortescue mean anything to you?"

"We know who he is."

"Well, then, I guess you know he's the champion practical joker of this burg. He was here a
while ago--hasn't been gone a quarter of an hour. Went just before Mr. Rolls came in. Asked
if he could use the telephone. I said yes, and my servant showed him into my mother's boudoir
next to this room. I heard him ring up some one, but didn't get what he said. I noticed when
he was through he came out chuckling, and then he was off like a shot--told me he had a date
uptown somewhere. That's all I know, but it would be like him to play just such a fool trick
on you and me."

"Seems 'twas a woman's voice at the 'phone."

"Gee! I did sort of get onto it, he was mimicking a girl! Sounded kind of shrill, but I didn't
pay attention. He's always up to some lark. You're welcome to go over the house, though, if
you don't believe me."

"It ain't a question of believing or not," said the detective. "But we'll have to look around."

"All right!" returned Logan, still with that perfect good nature which was having its effect
on the two intruders. "Would you rather do the job by your lones, or shall my man show you
the way? I suppose you don't mind us going on with our supper if I spare you Sims and we help
ourselves to food?"

"You can stay where you are," was the answer.

"Thanks. But when you're satisfied that a mosquito or so's the only live stock on the premises,
I should like you both to crack a bottle of champagne with us."

"It wouldn't be quite in order---"

"Hang order! The police and I are pals. Now you'll do me proud if you'll look in on your way
out. Bring the girl, if you find her!" And Logan laughed at his own joke.

"Don't think I've let you in for anything!" he turned to Rolls as the door shut. "They'll find
no one, for the good reason that there's no one to find. All the same, I should have been in
a mess if you hadn't come right along like a brick and helped me out."

"I don't quite see yet how I have helped you," rather dryly remarked Petro.

"But I guess you're guessing."

"If I've guessed right, I'm not enjoying the joke."

"Then maybe you haven't guessed right! Give me the benefit of the doubt till those good men
and true are the other side of the front door, will you? I'm as rattled as they make 'em now!
Say, this is a raid, ain't it? Wonder if they've got the Black Maria outside? Can't you eat
any caviar? Wish you would. Well, shall we skip along to the consommé?"

"I've just got down my dinner," said Rolls, who was guessing too hard to taste anything with
salt in it, in his old classmate's house.

"Well, a little of this champagne cup, anyhow? It's girls' drink, but not bad this weather,
and old Sims is a nailer at mixing---"

"No, thanks, nothing at all."

"You must let me half fill your glass, or those chaps will get onto it that you're playing
dummy!" As he spoke Logan poured champagne cup into Peter's tall tumbler and his own. The latter
he filled with the ice-cold, sparkling liquid which, as he said, was "girls' drink," and then,
seizing the glass, emptied it in one long draft.

It was he who did most of the talking that whiled away time till the policemen returned from
their tour of the house; and when they opened the door of the dining-room once more he was
eating chicken salad while Peter crumbled toast.

"I don't see the lady!" Logan exclaimed facetiously, with his mouth full.

"Neither did we," said the man who had taken the lead.

"Hope you did the thing thoroughly while you were about it! Garret to cellar and all the rest?"

"You bet we did," returned the policeman, allowing himself the relief of a grin now. "I guess
you was right about the practical joke. But you must excuse us if we look behind these curtains."

"Under the table, too!" laughed Logan, jumping to his feet. "Stand and deliver, Rolls!"

Petro obeyed rather reluctantly, feeling that he had been made a fool of, at best, in his stupid
wish to be good-natured. It might be a joke, as Logan insisted, but something told him it was
not. The look on the fellow's face as he gulped down the champagne cup had not been funny.
It was in Petro's mind that he had been brought in to cover up with his presence an unpleasant
incident and ignorantly to trick the police.

Of course, if there were a girl in the house, the police would have found her. But--there was
something queer. He meant to have it all out with Logan when the police were gone. Meantime,
however, he behaved loyally and stood up to leave the table clear while one of the detectives
did actually bend down to peer under it. As the policeman stooped Peter mechanically pulled
the chair back, and doing so he caught sight of a thin blue streak lying, like solidified cigarette
smoke, across the red brocade cushion. In this smoke-blue streak there were little things that
glistened--little silver things shaped like crescent moons set at regular intervals from each
other. Peter had been unconsciously sitting on the smoke wreath, and as the policeman rose
he deliberately sat down on it again. He felt suddenly sick, and his heart was large and cold
in his breast, where it did not beat, but floundered like a caught fish.

CHAPTER XXII

THE FRAGRANCE OF FRESIAS

Winifred Child had been in this house, or else she had sold or given the Moon dress to another
girl who had been here.

Thoughts were flashing through Peter's brain with the sharp quickness of motion pictures following
one another to a far conclusion. Of the girl he could not be sure. The lost dryad, needing
money more than she needed a smart evening gown, might well have disposed of Ena's gift. And
yet Petro had--strangely enough it had seemed to him then--thought of Winifred and the mysterious
"dryad door" on the Monarchic the moment he came into this place.

The perfume of the mirror room was here--the perfume which made all Nadine's model dresses
delicately fragrant of spring flowers; fresias, the youngest dryad had said they were; and
since then Peter had asked for fresias at the florist's, requested the Scottish head gardener
to plant fresias in the garden, and had kept fresias in his room to call back old dreams. If
the dryad had sold her dress, would the fresia fragrance haunt it still? Petro thought not.
The other woman would have given it her own special perfume. Only in the possession of a dryad
would it have retained this scent.

Winifred Child had been here, then--in Logan's dining-room, near Logan's table laid so alluringly
for a supper en tête-à-tête!

This idea, passing through several phases, had shaped itself clearly in Peter Rolls's mind
by the time the policeman's round black head had come up from under the table. And it was because
of the idea that he sat down deliberately on the film of chiffon. He did not want questions
to be asked, or Winifred Child's name to be mentioned in this business, at all events, until
he had made up his mind what to do.

There was still time to make it up, and speak, if necessary while the detectives were on the
spot, for Logan had offered them champagne and they had accepted now they were sure that all
parties had been victimized by a practical joker. "Girls' drink" was not for the guardians
of New York, and Sims was opening two frosty-looking bottles of the "real thing" just produced
from some household iceberg The men would not go for several moments yet.

Winifred Child had listened to Ena Rolls's warnings and had taken them deeply to heart. It
had seemed to her impossible that a sister could, for any motive whatever, calumniate a brother
whom she loved. And then, Win had reminded herself that her own ignorance of men was profound
They were said to be "all alike" in some dreadful ways, even those who seemed the noblest,
the most chivalrous--or more especially those. So she had believed Ena's words, against her
own instinct, and had not told herself that she lacked her favourite virtue--loyalty.

But with Peter it was exactly the opposite. He trusted his instinct before everything, and
though he thought that his lost dryad had been in this shut-up house with Jim Logan, he knew
that she had come innocently.

Somehow Logan had met her, admired her (that went without saying), and tricked her into the
place. When she had understood the trick she had, of course, tried to get away. (Why, if proof
were needed, was not the torn wisp of chiffon enough?) Her quick intelligence had suggested
the telephone, and somehow she had contrived to call the police before she could be stopped
by Logan.

Yes, that was like her! Then Logan had been scared and let her go, lest she should be found
and he should get into disgrace. This was the natural thing for such a man to do in the circumstances,
and equally natural that he should dash out to find a supper companion--some accommodating
fellow whose presence would account for the table with its two places.

But that he--he, of all men in New York, should be the accommodating fellow found to screen
the beast from punishment! This was the astounding thing--the terrible thing--and yet, the
providential thing. Through Logan and the coincidence which had brought them together at a
certain moment in the hall of the New Cosmopolitan Club, Petro told himself that he would by
and by reach Winifred Child. It was a hateful combination of circumstances; but finding her
thus would be no worse than discovering a rare jewel in a toad's head.

While the two detectives tossed off their champagne Peter Rolls sat still, his thoughts flashing
on behind a face deprived of all expression, as a screen of motionless dark trees can hide
the white rush and sparkle of a cataract. His vague contempt for Jim Logan had turned in the
last few minutes to active loathing, even to hatred. He wanted the fellow punished, as he would
have wanted a rattlesnake to have its poison fangs drawn. He wished to speak out and tell the
now laughing policemen the brief story of Logan's hurried visit to the club.

Down would go the half-full champagne glasses on the table. The cheerful grins would be wiped
from the two strong faces as by an artist who, with a stroke, changes the expression of a portrait.
Peter Rolls's word was at least as good as Jim Logan's. Questions would be asked. Jottings
would be made in notebooks. Perhaps they would both have to go to the police station. The girl's
name would be demanded; Logan might be forced to tell it. That would be one way of finding
Winifred--but it would be a way intolerable.

If only Peter were certain--as certain as he was of her innocence--that she wasn't hidden in
the house, he would let the detectives go quietly and get the truth out of Logan himself afterward.
But--could he be certain? Had he a right to take such chances when the girl's safety might
depend on police knowledge of her whereabouts?

It was reasonable to suppose that Logan had put her into the street after the giving of the
alarm and before he ran to the club. Yet he might not have done so. She might be fainting,
or even dead. The most terrible, melodramatic things happened every day in New York. One saw
them in the papers and felt they could never come into one's own life. Supposing there were
some hiding-place?

The fishlike flopping of Peter's heart slowed down as if the fish were losing strength. The
thought was too hideous to finish. Yet he would not dismiss it until he had played his hand
in the game.

So far he had hardly spoken since the sight of the blue smoke wreath on the chair had set his
brain whirling. But when Logan suddenly challenged him to drink a health to the New York police,
he took the glass of champagne Sims offered.

"Here's to you!" he said. "I never had such a good chance to appreciate the thoroughness of
your methods! By Jove! think of looking even under the table! Now that would never have occurred
to me."

"I guess it would," one of the men encouraged him, "if you had our experience. It gets to be
second nature to be thorough. We never, so to speak, leave a stone unturned"

"Well, it's mighty smart of you, that's all I can say!" young Mr. Rolls went on. "What do you
call being thorough--not 'leaving a stone unturned?' Here, for instance how can you be sure
you've looked in every hole and cranny where Mr. Logan might have stowed a young woman in a
dead faint, if he wanted to fool you?"

Both men laughed. "You ought to bin with us when we went on our trip around the house!"

"I wish I had! It would have been a sort of experience," said Peter. "I sometimes read detective
stories and wonder if they're like the real thing. When you were out of the room I was thinking
if we'd had a girl hidden in here--behind the curtains, for instance--we might have sneaked
her away when you were upstairs or down in the basement."

They laughed again, patronizing the amateur. "You must take us for Uncle Ezras from Wayback!"
genially sneered he who claimed leadership. "We didn't 'both' go upstairs--or in the basement.
While I waited in the hall my mate slipped down and locked the door that lets into the area
and brought away the key on him. What's more, he did something to the keyhole--a little secret
we know--that would have told us if any one had used another key while we were gone. But no
one did. Good guard was kept, and if a mouse had tried to slip by we'd 'a' caught it."

"But what if a mouse had tried to hide?" suggested Peter Rolls.

"We'd 'a' found it. There ain't a closet or a pair o' curtains or a shower bath or bookcase
or a screen or bureau or table or bed that's had a chance to keep a secret from us---"

"Did you ever hear the song of 'The Mistletoe Bough?'" inquired the doubter.

"You bet we did. You don't have to show us! We snooped all around the trunk room and rummaged
in every box big enough to hold a dwarf. None of 'em was locked, but if they had been--why,
we go around prepared."

"You don't look as if you'd done much prowling in the coal cellar, anyhow!" laughed Peter.

"That's because there ain't enough coal in it to dirty a dove," explained the policeman. "Why,
we even had a squint into the wine bins and the kitchen pantries and under the sink and into
a laundry basket. There ain't a fly on the wall in this house but we wouldn't know its face
if we met it again!"

They all laughed once more, and none more loudly than Logan, though he had given Peter Rolls
a puzzled glance for each new and apparently aimless question.

"If I wrote those detective stories, I'd use this for a plot," Petro went on; "but it wouldn't
be much good to the magazines the way it's turned out. I think I'd have a girl hidden behind
a sliding panel, or a picture that came out of its frame, or something, and the hero find her."

"Then you mustn't lay your plot in this house," retorted the officer. "There ain't any pictures
a full-sized cat could crawl through, and as for Mr. Logan's panels, they look real nice, but
I guess they're the kind you buy by the yard. And there ain't a room with a wall that could
open to hide anything thicker than a paper doll."

He earned a laugh again on that climax. Peter said that he would have to go to some old country
on the other side to write the kind of story he meant. The men finished their champagne and
had more. Then they finished that with a gay health (proposed by their host) to Freddy Fortescue.
And at last there was no doubt that the time had come to go.

Logan shook hands with both and pressed gifts of cigars and cigarettes upon them. If Peter
intended to give Logan away, now was the latest, the very latest moment. But he said not a
word. Satisfied that the girl could not possibly be concealed in the house, her name must not
be risked. While Logan accompanied the guardians of the law to the front door, opened by Sims
for their benefit, Peter annexed the blue smoke wreath. A splinter of wood (the furniture was
only imitation Jacobean) had impaled the rag of chiffon, and almost tenderly releasing it,
Rolls folded the trophy away in a breast pocket.

His imagination had not tricked him. The stuff did smell of fresias--which he proved by holding
it to his lips for an instant--the very scent that had come out to him whenever the dryad door
opened, in reality and memory, the scent he had grown intimate with while the Moon dress hung
in his wardrobe during those days when he had awaited a chance to present his offering to Ena!

When Logan came back he turned to tell Sims at the door that he would not be needed again,
at any rate, for the present. Then he shut himself and Peter into the rosy glow of the dining-room.

"At last!" he exclaimed, sinking contentedly into the chair opposite Rolls. "I feel as if I'd
earned a whole bottle of drink. But all's well that ends well."

"It hasn't quite ended yet, has it?" remarked Peter. "No, thank you, no champagne!"

"Not ended?" repeated Logan, bottle in hand. "Oh, I see what you're at!" and he began filling
his own glass, already emptied half a dozen times during the visit of the detectives. "You
mean you want an explanation of this hanky panky. Well, I promised it to you, didn't I? I said
you must give me the benefit of the doubt till those chaps were out of the house. I hope you
have. But I thought once or twice you looked a bit thick, as if you weren't sure what I'd let
you in for. But I'm not the kind of chap to get a pal in a fix to save my own face. I'm going
to explain, all right. Only first I want to thank you again for---"

"You needn't," said Peter.

"Sure you won't change your mind and take a little fizz? We've been through some hot work for
this weather."

"You have. No--not any!"

"One go at mine, then, and I'm yours. A-ah! that was pretty good. Well--there was a girl, of
course. But she came because she wanted to come. Then the trouble began. There was a little
misunderstanding about a pearl dog collar she admired in a jeweller's window. She seemed disappointed
to find that this wasn't to be the occasion of a presentation. Said I'd promised. I hadn't!
I never do promise beforehand to give girls things. Girls would love to have the same effect
on your money the sun has on ice. Not that this one's like all the others. She's worth a little
expenditure. A real stunner! Any fellow'd be wild over her. An English girl, tall and slim,
but gorgeous figure: long legs and throat, and dark eyes as big as saucers. You'd turn and
look after her anywhere! A lady, and thinks herself the queen, though she works in a New York
department store. I've been running after her since one night we made acquaintance in the park--great
chums--called each other Jim and Winnie and held hands from the first.

"But to-night, just because I said I'd never promised a dog collar or anything like one, she
went mad as a tiger cat and took revenge by ringing up the police with a beast of a story that
I'd kidnapped her. She got it out before I could make her stop, and for just a minute I was
in a blue funk. New York's rampagin' so just now on the subject of kidnappers. But I had wit
enough to chuck her into the street and run to the club for help. I thought of Freddy Fortescue
(by the way, I must get him to stand by me with a story in case he's questioned. I can count
on him every time!), but he wasn't in. I tried another man or two, same result, and just then
I saw you coming downstairs--ram caught in the bushes."

"For the sacrifice," Peter finished.

"Well, not too much of a sacrifice, I hope," Logan temporized "You don't regret standing by?"

"No, I don't regret it."

"Yet your tone sounds sort of odd, as if you were keeping something back. I don't see why,
either. I've kept my promise. I've explained--put the whole story in a nutshell, not to bore
you too much with my love affairs gone bad. And what I've told you is the Gospel's own truth,
old man, whether you believe it or not."

"I don't believe it," said Peter. "I know it to be the devil's own lie."

As he spoke he rose, and Logan jumped up, hot and red in the face.

"By Jove!" he sputtered. "I don't know what you mean."

"You know very well," Rolls insisted. "I mean--that you're a liar. A damn liar! The girl didn't
come here because she wanted to come. And she wouldn't take a pearl collar or a paper collar
from you if you went on your knees."

"You must be crazy!" Logan stared at him, paler now. "If you weren't my guest, in my house,
I--I'd knock you down."

"Try it," Peter invited him. "This is your father's house, I believe, not yours. And I don't
call myself your guest. Neither need you. I'm a sort of out-of-season April Fool. At least,
I was. I'm not now."

"I tell you--you're bughouse!" stammered Logan.

"You stand up for a girl you don't know a damn thing about---"

"I'd stand up for any girl against you," he was cut short again. "But I do know this girl.
I won't say how. I know you're the dirt under her feet, and if I hadn't made sure every way
that she was out of the house, I'd have set the police onto you as--as I wouldn't set terriers
onto a rat."

"You--you can't tell me her name--or anything about her--I'll bet!"

"You won't bet with me. And neither of us is going to speak her name here. Shut your mouth
on it if you don't want it stuffed down your throat and your teeth after it. You've been a
villain. That's the one thing that stands out in this business. God! do you think you could
make me believe anything wrong about that girl--you? Why, if an angel looped the loop down
from heaven to do it I wouldn't. Tell me what store she's working in. That's what I want to
hear about her from you, and nothing else."

Logan was not red in the face now. He had grown very pale. In truth, he was frightened. But
he was angry enough to hide his fear for the present. He determined that Rolls should not get
a word out of him.

"That's all you want to hear, is it?" he mimicked. "If you know so much about her, you can
jolly well find out the rest for yourself or keep off the grass. I don't intend---"

The sentence ended in an absurd gurgle, for the hand of Peter Rolls was twisting his high collar.
It was horribly uncomfortable and made him feel ridiculous, because he was taller and bigger
and older than Rolls. He tried to hit Peter in the face with his fist, but suddenly all strength
went out of him. The hated face vanished behind a shower of sparks.

"You're murdering--me!" he gasped. "I've--got--a weak heart."

Peter let go and flung him across the room. He tottered toward the door. And his servant, who
had been breathlessly listening outside, opened it opportunely on the instant. Logan saw his
chance, as Sims meant him to do, half fell, half staggered out, and the door slammed in Peter's
face.

It took the latter no more than thirty seconds to wrench it open again and drag Sims, who was
holding desperately to the knob, into the dining-room. "Don't hurt me, sir!" the man pleaded.
"I only did my duty."

"Hurt you!" repeated Rolls with a laugh. "Don't be afraid. Where's the other coward?"

"If you are referring to Mr. Logan, sir," Sims replied politely, "he is gone. If you look for
him, I think you will find he has quite gone. I had the front door open, all ready, in case
it should be needed."

Peter reflected for an instant, and then shrugged his shoulders.

"Let him go!" he said. "I'd as soon step twice on a toad that was hopping away as touch him
again. Br-r! This place is sickening. I'll go, too--but not after him."

"Yes, sir, certainly," returned Sims with alacrity, slinking along the hall to the vestibule.
"I'll open the front door for you. This," he added with a certain emphasis "will be the fourth
time I've done so to-night. Once to let Mr. Logan in, once when the young ladies came, and---"

"Ah, there were two of them!" Rolls caught him up.

"Yes, sir. And though I did my duty just now helping Mr. Logan--if I may say it, sir, without
offence--helping him out of danger, I am ready to assist you, sir, by answering any questions
you may wish to ask. I do not consider my doing so disloyal to my employer. My statements won't
hurt him, I assure you. And if you would--er---"

"Would 'make it worth your while,' I suppose you're trying to get out," Peter disgustedly prompted
him.

"I have a wife to support, sir, and a child. I keep them in the country, and it comes expensive."

"Give me ten dollars' worth of talk," ordered Peter, "and I'll believe as much as I choose."

He was half ashamed of himself for stooping to bribe the fellow who perhaps, after all, was
only trying to delay him. Yet he might have something worth hearing. He could not afford to
lose a chance.

"Two young ladies came as far as the door, sir," said Sims, pocketing the greenback, "but only
one came into the house--a tall, handsome young lady, different looking from most, with a thin
yellowish silk cloak over a blue dress. She walked right in, but when she found her friend
was gone she seemed surprised, and the next thing she was in the boudoir telephoning. Mr. Logan
went in and she came out. They had a little dispute, I think, and though he'd been expecting
her to supper, he told me to get her out of the house as quick as I could. I showed her through
the basement, and she walked, rather briskly I should say, sir, down the street, while Mr.
Logan went in the other direction--toward the corner, where the club is. As for the young ladies
themselves, I can give you no information, except that the one who didn't come in to-night
has been here before on several occasions. The one who came in and--er--used the telephone,
I have never previously seen. That's all I know which you don't know yourself. But I hope I've
been of some assistance to make up for doing my disagreeable duty, sir?"

"I've had ten dollars' worth, thank you," said Peter. "And now for the fourth time of opening
that door."

He went out, satisfied that he was carrying with him the only trace of Winifred Child from
the shut-up house. To-morrow he would begin with the opening of the shops and look through
every department store until he found her.

CHAPTER XXIII

MOTHER

Peter Rolls, as it oddly happened, had run up to New York that hot night in order to see a
girl do a "turn" at a vaudeville theatre--an English girl about whom he had read a newspaper
paragraph, and who might, he thought, be Winifred Child. The girl's stage name was Winifred
Cheylesmore. The newspaper described her as "tall, dark, and taking, with a voice like Devonshire
cream."

She was a new girl, of whom nobody had heard, and Peter had been thrilled and impatient. Her
"singing stunt" was to be heard at ten o'clock, and Peter had dined at his club, meaning to
be early in his seat at the theatre. But a man he knew, sitting at a table near, was a budding
journalist, an earnest amateur photographer. He began passing samples of his skill to Peter
Rolls, calling out rather loudly the names of ladies snapshotted. Among them was Winifred Cheylesmore,
whom he had interviewed. She was no more like Winifred Child than Marie Tempest is like Ethel
Barrymore. Consequently Peter gave his ticket away and sat longer over his dinner than he had
meant.

If he had started out even five minutes earlier he would have missed Jim Logan and the adventure
in the shut-up house. He would not have known that there was hope--indeed, almost a certainty--of
finding the lost dryad in one of New York's great department stores.

He was excited, and would have liked to spend half the night walking off his superfluous energy
in the streets or the park where that lying beast said he had made Miss Child's acquaintance.
Peter would have felt that he was marching to meet the dawn and that the day he longed for
would come to him sooner if he walked toward the horizon. But father was in town that night--presumedly
at his club, and Peter did not like to leave mother alone. She had exacted no promise--she
never did exact promises, for that was not her way. Peter had said, however, that he would
motor home after the theatre, and though mother mustn't sit up, she would know that he was
in the house.

He determined to keep to this plan, which, of course, would not prevent his returning to New
York early enough next day for the first opening of the first shop. He wished there were not
so many shops. Unless luck were with him on his search, he might not reach the dryad for days.

In spite of all that had happened, midnight was not long past when Peter tiptoed softly through
the quiet house at home and opened the door of his own den. He had expected to find the room
in darkness, but to his surprise the green-shaded reading lamp on the book-scattered mahogany
table was alight, and there in the horsehair-covered rocking-chair sat mother with her inevitable
work. Close by the window was wide open, and the night breeze from over the Sound was rhythmically
waving the white dimity curtains.

The sweetness of home-coming swept over Peter with the perfume of wallflowers which blew in
on the wind--a sweetness almost as poignant as that of fresias. Half unconsciously he had been
wishing to see his mother--perhaps not even to speak, but just to see her placid face in its
kind womanliness. It was almost as if his wish had been whispered to her telepathically and
she had answered it. She made a charming picture, too, he thought, in the shadowy room where
the pale, moving curtains in the dimness were like spirits bringing peace, and all the light
focussed upon the white-haired, white-gowned woman in the high, black chair seemed to radiate
from her whiteness.

Mother looked up, pleased but not surprised, as the opening door framed her son.

"Howdy do, deary!" She smiled at him. "I thought you'd be coming along about this time."

Peter threw his hat and coat at the whale, whose large, shining surface hospitably received
them. Mrs. Rolls's small, plump feet in cheap Japanese slippers rested upon a "hassock" on
whose covering reposed (in worsted) a black spaniel with blue high lights. This animal she
had herself created before the birth of Peter or Ena, but it was as bright a beast as if it
had been finished yesterday. No one at Sea Gull Manor except Peter would have given Fido house
room. But he liked the dog, and now sat down on it, lifting his mother's little feet to place
them on his knee.

"You oughtn't to have waited up," he remarked, having kissed her snow-white hair and both apple-pink
cheeks and settled himself more or less comfortably on Fido.

"I thought I would," she returned placidly. "I like being here. And I had just this to finish."
She held up a wide strip of crocheted lace. "It's 'most done now. It's go'n' to be a bedspread
for Ena. But I don't know if she---"

Mrs. Rolls did not finish the sentence, but it was a long, long ago established custom of hers
not to finish sentences. Except when alone with Petro, she seldom made any attempt to bring
one to an end. It was life at Peter senior's side which had got her out of the habit of trying
to complete what she began to say. As he generally interrupted her when she spoke, even in
their early years together, she had almost unconsciously taken it for granted that he would
do so, and stopped like a rundown mechanical doll at about the place where her quick-minded
husband was due to break in.

Peter junior, who never interrupted (though he, too, had a quick mind), knew as well as if
she had gone on that his mother meant: "I don't know if Ena will think a homemade coverlet
of crocheted lace smart enough for a real, live marchesa, but I feel I should like to make
my daughter some bridal present with my own hands."

"Oh, yes, she's certain to. It'll be beautiful, if it's anything like the one you did for me,"
Petro assured her when the long pause had told him that mother had no more to add. "Just think
of Ena getting married!"

"Yes, indeed," sighed Mrs. Rolls. "And it seems only a little while since you were both---"

Peter knew that the missing word was "children." "Anyhow, she's happy, I think," he reflected
aloud, a far-away look in his eyes.

"I guess so," mother agreed. "She'll like real well being a--- I wish---"

"Marchesa" was easy for Peter to supply mentally, and would have been much easier for him to
pronounce than it was for Mrs. Rolls, who had had small education in the management even of
her native tongue.

She made dear little, cozy, common mistakes in grammar and other things. Peter adored her mistakes,
and Ena was ashamed of them. But in those good manners which are taught by the heart and not
by the head, no queen could have given Mrs. Rolls lessons.

As for the next sentence, beginning with "I wish---" and ending in the air, that was more difficult.
Even mother, so placid, seemingly so contented, must have many wishes. And so Petro ventured
on a "What?"

"I wisht I could be just as sure you---"

"As sure that I'm happy?"

"Yes, dear."

Peter had been looking at his mother's feet in those blue Japanese slippers, whose cheapness
was rather pathetic. (With all their money, she never enjoyed wearing expensive things herself.
It was as if she felt lost and un-at-home in them.) But suddenly he glanced up. The pink-and-white
face was as calm as usual, yet her tone had meant something in particular. A chord seemed to
vibrate in his soul, as if she had softly, yet purposely, touched it with her finger.

"Don't you believe I am happy?" he asked.

"Not--just like you used to be," she said. Their eyes met as she lifted hers from her work
and began rolling it up, finished. She blushed beautifully, like a girl.

Peter pressed both the little feet between his hands, pressed them almost convulsively. He
did not stop to think how strong his fingers were, though Logan had had cause to realize their
strength two hours ago. The pressure hurt the small toes so lightly covered. And the mother
of this strong, though slight, young man gloried in the hurt. She was proud of it, proud of
Peter, the one thing in the world she felt was really hers.

"Mother!" he said in a low, tense voice. "What told you?"

"Why--just bein' your mother, I guess. I was wonderin'---"

"Wondering what?"

"Whether some day you'd say something."

"I wanted to. I wanted to talk to you about--about it all. But I was afraid it might make you
sad. I like to think of you always happy, dearest. And I couldn't bear to be the one to chase
away your smile I love so much."

"It's thinking of you helps me to smile, Petie," said his mother, reverting to the pet name
of his childhood as she stroked his smooth, black hair. "If 'twasn't for knowing I've got you--and
your loving me--I do believe I could never smile."

"You're not unhappy?" Peter cried out, startled. It would be a dreadful pain to know that the
placid reserve of this sweet, loved woman meant unhappiness.

"Not while I have you. But---"

"You must go on, dear. Tell me what you feel. We're here together, all alone in the night,
talking out our hearts. It seems as if it was meant to be--my finding you waiting here."

"I guess maybe it was, Petie. Something kind of said to me, 'You wait up for him. He wants
you.' And I--why, I always want you, boy."

"Darling! We've got each other fast."

"Thanks be, dear! My! You don't know the times I've sneaked in and set in this room when you
was away. And even now, if you're go'n' to be out pretty late, I bring in my work 'most always
when your pa's out. I generally slip back to my room before you come in, because I know you
think I oughtn't to be sittin' up. You mightn't just understand that 'twas because this is
my only real home."

"Your only real home? Why, Mother!"

"The rest of the house is so big--and so awful new-fashioned and grand. Not like me a bit,"
she apologized meekly--but not with the flurried meekness of her apologies to Peter senior.
"Here you've saved all my dear old things I had in the days before everything was big. I never
can get used to it, and I never will now. It's the bigness, I guess, that's seemed--somehow--to
take your pa and Ena away from me--long ago. But I've got you. And you let me come here. So
I am happy. I'm a real happy woman, Petie. And I want you to be happy the way you used to be--or
some better way, not all restless like you are now. I guess if there was some one you loved
different from me you wouldn't make a new life for yourself without a little place in it for
mother, would you--just a weenty little place I could come and live in sometimes for a while?"

"I'd want you in it always," said Peter. He leaned up and wound his arms around the plump,
formless waist in the neat dressing-gown. "So would she--if there were a she. I hate the 'bigness,'
too--the kind of false, smart bigness that you mean. We'll have a little house--she and you
and I. For your room will be there, and you'll be in it whenever father'll spare you. But I'm
running away in what I used to call my 'dreamobile!' I haven't found her yet. That is, I found
her once and lost her again. I'm looking for her now. Mother, do you know what a 'leitmotif' is?"

"No, dear, indeed I don't. I'm afraid I don't know many of the things I---"

"There's no reason why you should know this. In Wagner's operas, which I don't understand,
perhaps, but which I love with thrills in my spine--and that's a kind of understanding--whenever
a character comes on the stage he or she always is followed by a certain strain of music--music
that expresses character, and seems even to describe a person. Well, wallflower perfume might
be your leitmotif. Can't you hear perfume? I can. Just as you can seem to see music--wonderful,
changing colours. The wallflower scent's all around us now. It's you. But through it I imagine
another perfume. It's here, too. It's been with me for months. Because I've got to feel it's
her spirit, her leitmotif. The perfume of fresias. Do you know it?"

"I thought maybe she liked it," mother said calmly.

"What put that idea in your darling head?"

"Why, because you've been havin' fresias planted in the garden--and in your room--as long as
they lasted through the spring. You'd never thought of 'em before as I know of."

"You witch! You notice everything. Who'd believe it, you're so quiet?"

"Of course I notice things about you. I wouldn't be fit to be your mother if I didn't. Now,
do you feel like tellin' me things about her?"

"I'm longing to," said Peter.

They forgot it was late at night. He told her everything, beginning at the moment when he had
plunged through the dryad door and going on to the moment when he had lost, not only the girl,
but her friendship, though he said nothing of the Moon dress or the shut-up house. Even then
he did not stop.

"I must have done something inadvertently," he went on, "to make her stop liking me all of
a sudden. For she did like me at first. There was no flirting or anything silly about it. I
felt there was a reason for her changing, and ever since, every day and every night, I've been
trying to make out what it could have been. I've thought the idea might come to me. But it
never has. That's partly why I'm so anxious to find her--to make her explain. I was too taken
aback, too--sort of stunned--to go about it the right way when she changed to me at the last
minute there on the dock. Once I could understand, why, I might start with her again at the
beginning and work up. It would give me a chance--the chance I once thought I had, you know--to
try to make her care. Maybe it would be no use. Maybe I'm not the kind she could ever like
that way, even if things hadn't gone wrong. But--but, Mother, it's been just agony to think
that all this time she's hated me through some beastly misunderstanding which might easily
have been cleared up."

"My poor boy!" the kind voice soothed him. "I guess that's the worst pain of all. I knew there
was something hurting you, but I didn't know 'twas as hard a hurt as this. But 'twill come
right. I feel it will--if she's really the right girl."

"She's the only girl!" exclaimed Peter. "You'd love her, and she'd adore you."

"Tell me just what she looks like," commanded mother, shutting her eyes to see the picture better.

Peter excelled himself in his description of Winifred Child. "Nobody ever even dreamed of another
girl who looked or talked or acted a bit like her," he raved. "She's so original!"

"Why, but that's just what somebody did!" mother cried, throwing off the cloak of her placidity.
"Lady Eileen."

"Lady Eileen did what?"

"Dreamed about such a girl. It must have been a real interesting dream, because she couldn't
get it out of her head and told me all about it. She saw a tall, dark girl, with wonderful
eyes and a fascinating mouth and graceful sort of ways like you've been telling me about. Hearing
Lady Eileen talk was almost like seeing a photograph. In the dream you were in love with the
girl--English she was, too, like the real one--and ransacking New York for her, while all the
time she---"

"Yes--yes, dear! All the time she---"

"Lady Eileen said particularly I was to tell you about her dream and let you know she wanted
you to hear it, because it seemed kind of dramatic and made her almost superstitious, it was
so real every way. But she made me promise I wouldn't say a word unless you spoke first about
such a girl as she dreamed of--and told me you loved her and wanted to find her again. If I
began, it would spoil the romance, and there wouldn't be anything in it. That was how Lady
Eileen felt."

Peter listened, but his spirit had rushed on past these explanations. Lady Eileen had chosen
this method of leaving a message for him. It was a strange method, and he did not understand
why she had not herself told him of the dream. But she was a kind and clever girl, a true friend.
There must have been a good motive for the delay. Loyal himself, he believed in her loyalty
and was grateful. But he could not stop to think of her now.

"Where did Lady Eileen see my dryad girl--in the dream?" he asked.

"At father's place," said mother simply. "At the Hands."

CHAPTER XXIV

THINGS EXPLODING

Lily Leavitt did not come back to Mantles next morning. She sent no word, asked no leave for
illness--and the rule at the Hands was discharge for such an omission. If she appeared again
her place would be filled--unless she had a strong enough "pull" to keep it open.

Win, who arrived promptly, as usual (just as if last night's adventure had been a black dream)
heard the other girls talking about Lily. She listened and said nothing; had no opinion when
asked what she thought. But not a soul pitied Miss Leavitt. The general idea seemed to be that
she was one "who knew which side her bread was buttered." She would not be stopping away without
notice unless she had done better for herself. Probably she had secretly married one of those
swell beaus she was always boasting about!

Win, pale and absent-minded (but that might be the heat), was giving the finishing touches
to a cloaked group of figurines when a letter was brought to her by a messenger boy. It was
not yet time for Peter Rolls's doors to open to the world, but the girl had to finish her task
before reading the note. A glance at the envelope showed Sadie's handwriting, and as Sadie
ought at that moment to have been making the toilets of dolls upstairs, Win realized that something
unexpected must have happened.

Perhaps Sadie was ill and wanted her to explain to the management. She must make short shrift
with the figurines and be ready to help Sadie before strenuous life began.

Five minutes later five headless ladies in perfectly draped wraps were showing off their finery
to the best advantage, and their tiring maid was standing as still as they, an open letter
in her hand.

"What's the matter?" asked a pretty, snub-nosed girl who laughed oftener than Win in these
days. "You look as if you'd lost your last friend."

"I'm afraid--I have," Winifred replied in a strange, withdrawn voice which made Daisy Thompson's
eyes widen.

"Say! I'm real sorry! I hope it ain't your beau."

Win did not answer, because she did not hear. Sadie! Sadie! The dear little old sardine!

"Good-bye, deerie," she read again. "I coodn't of said this to yure fase. I only noo for shure
yesterdy. Its cunsumsion and they won't have me back for fere of my giving it to others. I
gess thats right tho its hard luck on me. It aint that I care much about living. I dont, becawse
theres sum one I love who loves another girl. Shes a lot better than me and werthy of him so
thats all right too but it herts and Id be kind of glad to go out. Dont you be afrade of me
doing anything silly in the tabloyde line tho. I wont. Im no coward. But I got to leeve this
house for the same reeson as the Hands. I mite give my truble to sum one else. Its a good thing
we found out in time. Ive hurd of a noo plase where they take consumps for nuthing, and Ive
got to steer for it. Its in the country but I wont tell you where deerie or you mite try to
see me and I dont think I cood stand it the way I feel now. But I love you just as much. Good-by.
Yure affecshunate Sadie."

Win was overwhelmed. Lately she had seen little of her friend. Neither girl had much time,
and the weather had drunk all their energy. She ought to have guessed from Sadie's thinness
that she was ill. She ought--oh, she ought to have done a dozen things that she had not done!
Now it was too late.

But no, it mustn't be too late! She would find out where Sadie was. It ought to be easy, for
the verdict which had sent the girl away from the Hands must have been that of a young doctor
who attended the employees. There were certain hours when he came to the hospital room which
Win had seen on her first day at Peter Rolls's. One of these hours was just before the opening
of the shop. Perhaps he hadn't yet got away.

The floorwalker who controlled Mantles was one of the smartest men in any department, somewhat
of a martinet, but inclined to be reasonable with those who had any "gumption." Miss Child
had gumption, and though it was nearly time for the public to rush in (there was a bargain
sale that day) he gave her a permit of absence.

"Nothing worse than a headache, I hope, takes you to the H.R.?" he questioned, scrawling his
powerful name. "We need everybody to get busy to-day."

"I'm going to beg for some sal volatile," answered Win, and determined to do so, as even white
fibs were horrid little things, almost as horrid as cowardly, scuttling black beetles.

Poor Sadie had giggled the other night: "You stick even to the truth this hot weather!"

The doctor had not gone, but he did not know of the new place Sadie referred to, and, not knowing,
didn't believe in its existence. He had told Sadie Kirk yesterday that her lungs were infected
and that she had become "contagious." Of course she had had to be discharged. These things
were sad, but they were a part of the day's work. It was a pity that Miss Kirk hadn't been
longer with the Hands. Her insurance money wouldn't amount to much.

"Do you mean to say that they've sent her away to die and haven't given her anything?" Win gasped.

"Not to die, I hope," said young Dr. Marlow. "She's curable. But she wouldn't get more than
a week's salary with her discharge, I'm afraid. Old Saint Peter isn't in this business for
his health."

"Or for any one else's," the girl retorted.

Marlow shrugged his shoulders, bowed slightly to the pretty but unreasonable young woman, and
went away.

Winifred also should have gone. She had got her sal volatile and her information. But life
was lying in ruins around her--Sadie's life, if not her own--and she did not know how to set
about reconstructing it.

"What man does she love who loves another girl?" she asked herself.

Then, suddenly, she knew. It was Earl Usher, and he loved her, Winifred, who could never be
more to him than a friend.

Win had heard of a "vicious circle." It seemed that she and Sadie and Ursus were travelling
in one, going round and round, and could never get out.

"But I must go down," the mechanical part of herself kept repeating.

She had involuntarily paused near the door to think things out in peace. There were no patients
for the two narrow white beds, and the nurse--a small, nervous woman with sentimental eyes--was
heating water over a spirit lamp. She suffered from headache and had prescribed herself some
tea. The water had begun to boil, and despite the throbbing in her temples she hummed monotonously:
"You Made Me Love You."

Winifred heard the tune through her thoughts of Sadie and Earl Usher, and it seemed to make
everything sadder and more hopeless. But suddenly the singing broke off--the thin voice rose
to a shriek, and was lost in a loud explosion.

In the act of going out Win turned, bewildered and expecting horror. Head down, her hands covering
her burned face, the nurse came staggering toward the door. Hair and cap were on fire. All
over the white dress and apron were dotted little blue tongues of flame that had spouted out
from the bursting lamp.

Often such an accident had been lightly prophesied by this very woman. The spirit sent up for
the hospital was of the cheapest. Peter Rolls was "not in business for his health!"

Dazed by the deafening noise, and shocked to the very heart by the woman's shriek of pain,
Win was not conscious of thought. She did not tell herself to spring to the nearest bed, tear
off the covering, stop the nurse before she could rush wildly into the corridor, and wrap her
in the blanket. All she knew for a moment was that she had done and was doing these things,
that she was using her strength to hold the maddened creature, and all the while calling out
for help.

The doctor had not yet reached the end of the long corridor, and the explosion and cries brought
him and others running. Vaguely Win was conscious that there were women there, maids who cleaned
floors and windows, and that there were two or three men besides Dr. Marlow. She thought that
he ordered some of them out and gave directions to others, but the scene sharpened into detail
only when she heard herself told to stay and give assistance.

She aiding the doctor, the nurse's burns were dressed. The little quivering creature, hastily
undressed, was put to bed, face, head, arms, and hands covered with oil and bandaged. It was
not until another nurse--telephoned for from somewhere to somewhere--had arrived, and the invalid
had been given an opiate, that Win realized the tingling pain in her own fingers.

"Why, yes, so I am burned a little!" she exclaimed when the doctor asked to see her hands.
"But it's nothing to matter. I can go back to work now. Nurse is all right."

"No, it's nothing to matter, and you can go back to work, all right," briskly echoed Marlow,
who was no coddler of any hands at Peter Rolls's; "that is, you can when I've patched you up
a bit. And nurse isn't going to be bad, either. She won't be disfigured, I can guarantee that--thanks
to you."

"Thanks to me?" Win echoed.

"Yes, just that. Perhaps you don't realize that you probably saved her life."

"No. I--I don't think I've realized anything yet." She found herself suddenly wanting to cry,
but remembered a day on the Monarchic (as she always did remember if tears felt near) and swallowed
the rising lump in her throat.

"Well, don't bother about it. You can get conceited later. Here, drink this to quiet your nerves
in case you feel jumpy, and now run along. It'll be all right for you downstairs. The news
will have got to your dep by this time and they'll know why you're late."

Win "ran along" and found the doctor's prophecy correct The news had bounded ahead of her.

"I hear you've been distinguishing yourself," said Mr. Wellby, the floorwalker. "Let's see
your hands. Oh, I guess they won't put you out of business, a brave girl like you."

"I'm as well as ever, thank you," said Win.

Stupid of her, wanting to cry again just because people were paying her compliments! But perhaps
she hadn't quite got over last night and not sleeping at all. And then Sadie's letter. Things
had piled on top of each other, but she mustn't let herself go to pieces. She must keep her
wits and think--think--think how to get at Sadie and what to do for her.

Dr. Marlow had covered Win's fingers with something he called "newskin," since it would not
do for a "saleslady" to disgust customers by serving them with bandaged hands. It was like
a transparent varnish and made her nails shine as brightly as those of the vainest girls who
spent all their spare time in polishing. But the redness showed through, as if her hands were
horribly chapped. She saw a lady who had asked her to try on a white lace evening coat staring
at them.

"What's the matter with your hands?" The question came sharply.

"I scalded them a little this morning," Win explained.

"Oh! I'm glad it isn't a disease."

The girl blushed faintly, ashamed, glanced down at the offending pink fingers, and turning
slowly round to display the cloak, suddenly looked up into the eyes of Peter Rolls.

She could not help starting and drawing in her breath. For half a second her brain whirled
and she thought that she imagined him, that it was just such another vision as those of last
night when she had put on the Moon dress.

His eyes were looking at her as they had looked then, and they were the good blue eyes of Mr.
Balm of Gilead. It could not be that he was really here gazing at her. It must be some other
man like him. But no! He had taken off his hat. He was saying something in the well remembered--too
well remembered!--voice.

"How do you do, Miss Child? When you've finished with this lady, I shall be so much obliged
if you can speak to me for a minute."

She bowed her head--quite a polite, ordinary sort of bow, just like that of any well-trained
saleslady to a prospective customer intending to wait till she was free. But really it did
not mean politeness at all. It meant that she had to hide her face, and that it was taking
every square inch of nerve force she had to behave in the least like a saleslady.

It was seeing Peter Rolls suddenly--Peter Rolls in flesh and bone and muscle and magnetism
of eyes, which told her in a devastating flash a thing about herself she had feared for months--ever
since the day she turned her back upon Mr. Balm of Gilead and the Monarchic.

She was in love with him. Hideously, desperately, overwhelmingly in love with him, just as
ridiculous girls always were with men they oughtn't to think of. Probably he had tried to make
her so at first with his friendly, chivalrous ways that hid blacknesses underneath.

She had escaped, thanks to his sister. And it looked as if those horrid hints had indeed been
true, otherwise he would not have troubled to persist after his snubbing. For he had persisted.
Some glint of blue light in the steady eyes told her that. This was not a coincidence. Mr.
Rolls had the air of having found her at last. She must make him sorry for it. Because, after
her experience of the other man who had persisted--though she thought herself forgotten--why
should she hope against hope that this man was different?

At last the customer, who did not hurry in the least--rather the contrary--wore all excuses
for lingering to shreds, she waddled fatly away, carrying the lace cloak with her; and Win,
not shirking the ordeal as she had done when Jim Logan haunted Toyland, turned to Peter Rolls.

CHAPTER XXV

A PIECE OF HER MIND

"Miss Child, I've been looking for you for months!" were Peter's first words when he had her
to himself.

Instantly she knew what her pose ought to be. Not prim stiffness, not suspicious maidenly dignity,
but just smiling civility, a recognition of past slight acquaintance. This would do for the
beginning. This must surely show him that the tactics Ena credited him with were useless here.

"Have you? How nice of you to say so," she braced herself to reply with gayest indifference.
"Well, I've been in this store for--a long time, migrating from one department to another and
learning the business. I'm quite a fair saleswoman now, I assure you. Are you going to buy
a cloak? Because, if not--this is a busy morning."

"Yes, I'll buy one as a present for my mother," said Peter. "I should like you to choose her
something. I described her to you once, but I suppose you've forgotten. She's little, and rather
plump, and has beautiful white hair and a rosy complexion. But, Miss Child, I want to talk
to you, not about cloaks, about yourself. I've asked permission, and they know who I am, and
it's all right. I said you and my sister were friends. That's true, isn't it?"

"Oh, yes!"

"I believed we were friends once. And we were, too. The more I've thought of it, the surer
I've been. Something happened to make you change your mind about me. I was struck all of a
heap at first. I didn't have the sense to know what to say or do, to try and put myself back
where I had been. I let you go. And I lost you. But I'm not going to lose you again. You can
see how much in earnest I am when I tell you that I haven't stopped looking for you for one
single day after I realized you wouldn't keep your promise about writing my sister."

"It wasn't a promise," breathed Win. "I--never meant to write to her."

"I thought so!"

"Why should I? It was very kind of Miss Rolls to suggest it, if I should ever want help. But
I didn't want help. All I wanted was to get on by myself."

"I know you mean me to understand from that, Miss Child, that you don't think I've any right
to force myself on you after you showed me so plainly you thought me a bounder," said Peter,
not mincing his words or stumbling over them. "But I'm not a bounder. There must be some way
of proving to you that I'm not. That's why I'm here for one thing, though there's another---"

"What?" Winifred threw in, frightened, and thinking it better to cut him short in time.

"I want you to meet my mother and let her help you to get some kind of a position more--more
worthy of your talents than this."

Win laughed aloud. "You run down your father's shop?"

"It's not good enough for you."

She flushed, and all her pent-up anger against the House of the Hands tingled in that flush.

"You say so because I once had the great honour of being an acquaintance of yours--and your
sister's," she hurried breathlessly on. "For all the rest of the people here, the people you
don't know and don't want to know, you think it good enough--too good, perhaps--even splendid!
It does look so, doesn't it? Magnificent! And every one of your father's employees so happy--so
fortunate to be earning his wages. They're worms--that doesn't matter to rich men like you,
Mr. Rolls. Unless, perhaps, a girl happens to be pretty--or you knew her once and remember
that she was an individual. Oh, you must feel I'm very ungrateful for your interest. Maybe
you mean to be kind--about your mother. But give your interest to those who need it. I don't.
I've seen your name in the papers--interviews--things you try to do for the 'poor.' It's a
sort of fad, isn't it--in your set? But charity begins at home. You could do more by looking
into things and righting wrongs in your father's own shop than anywhere else in the world."

She stopped, panting a little, her colour coming and going She had not meant this at first.
It was far removed from smiling civility, this--tirade! But, as Sadie Kirk would say, "He had
asked for it."

He was looking at her with his straight, level gaze. He was astonished, maybe, but not angry.
And she did not know whether to be glad or sorry that she had not been able to rouse him to
rage. His look into her eyes was no longer that of a young man for a young woman who means
much to him. That light had died while the stream of her words poured out.

For a moment, when she had ceased, they stared at each other in silence, his face very grave,
hers flushed and suggesting a superficial repentance.

"Forgive me," she plumped two words into the pause, as if pumping air into a vacuum. "I oughtn't
to have said all that. It was rude."

"But true? You think it's true?"

"Yes."

"You have been working here in my father's store for months, and you say I could do more good
by righting the wrongs here than anywhere else in the world. That sounds pretty serious."

"It is serious. Whether I ought to have spoken or not."

"I tell you, you ought to have spoken. It was--brave of you. That's the way I always think
of you, Miss Child, being brave--whatever happens. And laughing."

"I don't laugh now."

"Not at other people's troubles--I know. But you would at your own."

"I'm not thinking of my own. To-day of all days!"

He wondered what she meant. His mind flashed swiftly back to last night and all that had happened.
He could have kissed the hem of her black dress to see her here, safe and vital enough to fling
reproaches at him for his sins--of omission. Yet he must stand coldly discussing grievances.
No, "coldly" was not the word. No word could have been less appropriate to the boiling emotions
under Peter Rolls's grave, composed manner.

He let the baffling sentence go--a sentence which framed thoughts of Sadie Kirk.

"I should like to hear from you the specific wrongs you want righted," he said. "I know a girl
of your sort wouldn't speak vaguely. You do mean something specific."

"Yes--I do."

"Then tell me--now."

"You came to buy a cloak for your mother."

"I didn't come for that, and you know it. I came for you. But you put a shield between us to
keep me off. When you have emptied your heart of some of these grievances that are making it
hot--against me, maybe you won't have to put me at the same distance. Maybe you'll let me be
your friend again, if I can deserve it."

"I don't want to talk or think of ourselves at all!" she broke out.

"I don't ask you to. All that--and my mother's cloak, too--you needn't be getting down that
box!--can wait. If you won't be my friend, anyhow show me how to help your friends."

"Oh, if you would do that!" Win cried.

"I will. Give me the chance."

Despite his injunction, she had taken from its neat oak shelf a box of summer wraps and placed
it on the counter behind which she stood. Now, not knowing what she did, she lifted the cardboard
cover and seemed to peep in at the folds of chiffon and silk.

Peter looked not at the box, but at her pitiful, reddened hands on the lid. The blood mounted
slowly to his temples and he bit his lip. He, too, was standing, though any one of several
green velvet-covered stools was at his service. He turned away, leaning so much weight on the
bamboo stick he held that it bent and rather surprised him.

Suddenly the scene struck him as very strange, almost unreal--Winifred Child, his lost dryad,
found in his father's store, separated from him by a dignified barrier of oak and many other
things invisible! This talk going on between them--after last night! The hum of women's voices
in the distance (they kept their distance in this vast department because he was Peter Rolls,
Jr., as all the employees by this time knew) and the heavy heat and the smell of oak seemed
to add to the unreality of what was going on. Fresias would have helped. But there was nothing
here that suggested help--unless you wanted advice about a cloak.

Win had been marshalling her ideas like an army hastily assembled to fight in the dark.

"That is a favour I couldn't refuse to take from you, even if I would," she said in a low voice,
"to help my friends."

"It is no favour. You'll be doing me that."

She went on as if he had not spoken.

"I don't know about any shops in New York except this one--only things I've heard. Some of
the girls I've met here have worked in other department stores. They say--this is one of the
worst. I have to tell you that--now I've begun. There's no use keeping it back--or you won't
understand how I feel. There are real abuses. The Hands don't break the laws--that's all. About
hours--we close at the right time, but the salespeople are kept late, often very late, looking
over stock. Not every night for the same people, but several times a week. We have seats, but
we mustn't use them. It would look as if we were lazy--or business were bad. We 'lend' the
management half the time we're allowed for meals on busy days--and never have it given back.
The meals themselves served in the restaurant--the dreadful restaurant--seem cheap, but they
ought to be cheaper, for they're almost uneatable. Those of us who can't go out get ptomain
poisoning and appendicitis. I know of cases. Hardly any of us can afford enough to eat on our
salaries. I should think our blood must be almost white!

"But nobody here cares how we live out of business hours, so long as we're 'smart' and look
nice. When we aren't smart--because we're ill, perhaps--and can't any longer look nice--because
we're getting older or are too tired to care--why, then we have to go; poor, worn-out machines--fit
for the junk shop, not for a department store! Even here, in Mantles, where we get a commission,
the weak ones go to the wall. We must be like wolves to make anything we can save for a rainy
day. But any girl or man who'll consent to act the spy on others--there's a way to earn money,
lots of it. A few are tempted. They must degenerate more and more, I think! And there are other
things that drive some of us--the women, I mean--to desperation. But I can't tell you about
them. You must find out for yourself--if you care."

"If I care!" echoed Peter.

"If you do, why haven't you found out all these things, and more, long ago?" she almost taunted
him, carried away once again by the thought of those she championed--the "friends" she had
not come to in her story yet.

"Because--my father made it a point that I should keep my hands off the Hands. That was the
way he put it. I must justify myself far enough to tell you that."

"But--if one's in earnest, need one take no for an answer?"

"I suppose I wasn't in earnest enough. I thought I was. But I couldn't have been. You're making
me see that now."

"I haven't told you half!"

"Then--go on."

"You really wish it?"

"Yes."

"The floorwalkers and others above them have power that gives them the chance to be horribly
unjust and tyrannical if they like. There are lots of fine ones. But there are cruel and bad
ones, too. And then--I can't tell you what life is like for the under dog! And cheating goes
on that we all see and have to share in--sales of worthless things advertised to attract women.
We get a premium for working off 'dead stock.' Each department must be made to pay, separately
and on its own account, you see, whatever happens! And that's why each one is its own sweatshop---"

"I swear to you this isn't my father's fault," involuntarily Peter broke in. "He's not young
any more, you see, and he worked so hard in his early years that he's not strong enough to
keep at it now. Not since I can remember has he been able to take a personal interest in the
store, except from a distance. He leaves it to others, men he believes that he can trust. Not
coming here himself, he---"

"Why, he comes nearly every day!" Win cried out, then stopped suddenly at sight of Peter's face.

"I--am sure you're mistaken about that one thing, Miss Child," he said. "You must have been
misinformed. They must have told you some one else was he---"

The girl was silent, but Peter's eyes held hers, and the look she gave him told that she was
not convinced. "You don't believe me?" he asked.

"I believe you don't know. He does come. It's always been toward the closing hour when I've
seen him. The first time he was pointed out to me was by a floorwalker on Christmas Eve. I
was in the toy department then. He was with Mr. Croft. How strange you didn't know!"

"If it was father--perhaps I can guess why he didn't want us to find out. But even now I--well,
I shall go home and ask him if he realizes what is happening here. Somehow I shall help your
friends, Miss Child."

"I haven't told you about them yet," Win said. "It was really one friend who was in my mind.
There may be ever so many others just as sad as she. But I love her. I can't bear to have her
die just because she's poor and unimportant--except to God. Dr. Marlow thinks she's curable.
Only--the things she needs she can't afford to get, and I haven't any money left to buy them
for her; just my salary, and no more. There's one thing I can do, though! I'll learn to be
a wolf, like some of the others, and snatch commissions."

"Don't do that!" Peter smiled at her sadly. "I shouldn't like to think of you turning into
a wolf. Your friend is sick---"

"She was told by the doctor yesterday that it was a case of consumption. I had a letter from
her this morning--bidding me good-bye. You see, she was discharged on the spot, with only a
week's wages."

"Beastly!" exclaimed Peter. "There ought to be some kind of a convalescent home in connection
with this store--or two, rather, one for contagious sort of things and the other not. I---"

"She wrote in her letter that she'd heard of a place where consumptives were taken in and treated
free," Win went on when he paused. "But she wouldn't tell me where it was. And Dr. Marlow says
there is nothing of the sort---"

"Oh, he can't have read the newspapers these last few days. It's been open a week."

"Then you know about it?"

"Yes. You see--it's a sort of--friend of mine who's started the scheme. The house is not very
big yet. But he'll enlarge it if it makes a success."

"Quite free?"

"Yes. Anybody can come and be examined by the doctor. No case will be refused while there's
room. I--my friend lost his dearest friend years ago--a boy of his own age then--from consumption.
It almost broke his heart. And he made up his mind that when he grew up and had a little money
of his own, he'd start one of those open-air places in the country free."

"I believe you're speaking of yourself!" exclaimed Win, her face lighting. Then Ena Rolls's
brother couldn't be all bad!

"Well, I'm in the business, too. This must be the place the girl is going to. She shall be
cured, I promise you. And when she's well she shall have work in the country to keep her strong
and make her happy. Will that please you?"

"Yes," Win answered. "But--it doesn't please me to feel you're doing it for that reason."

"I'm not. Only partly, at least. I'm thankful for the chance to help. And this shan't be all.
There'll be other ways. Please don't think too badly of me, Miss Child. I trusted my father,
as he wished. And he trusts Mr. Croft--too completely, I fear."

Again Win was silent. She had heard things about Peter Rolls, Sr., which made her fancy that
he was not a man to trust any one but himself. And she did not yet dare to trust his son. The
look was coming back into his eyes which made her remember that he was a man like other men.
Yet it was hard not to trust him! And because it was so hard she grew afraid.

"Give me the address of that convalescent home," she broke her own silence by saying. "I want
to write to my friend, Sadie Kirk--and go to see her--if she's really there. Mr. Rolls, I shall
bless you if she is cured."

Petro had taken out his cardcase and was writing.

"Then, sooner or later, I shall have my blessing," he said quietly. "Couldn't you give me just
a small first instalment of it now? Couldn't you tell me what changed you toward me on the
ship? Had it anything to do with my family--any gossip you heard?"

"In a way, yes. But I can't possibly tell you. Please don't ask me."

"I won't. But give me some hope that I can live it down. You see, I can't spare you out of
my life. I had you in it only a few days. Yet those days have made all the difference."

Win stiffened.

"I can't let you talk to me like that," she said almost sharply, if her creamy voice could
be sharp. "I hate it. You'll make me wish--for my own sake--if it weren't for my friend, I
mean--that you hadn't found me here. I thought--I don't see why I shouldn't say it!--when I
asked for work in your father's store that none of the family would ever come near the place.
I was told they never did. But it wasn't true. You all come!"

"You mean my father and I?"

"And Miss Rolls, too---"

"She came?"

"Yes, with Lord Raygan, and--and I think you and Lady Eileen were here, too."

"We were," Peter said. "And so--you were in the store even then? Nobody told me."

"I hoped they wouldn't."

It was his turn to be silent, understanding Eileen's dream. Raygan must have talked to her
about the girl. But there would have been nothing to say, if Ena had not said it first. Ena
had "explained things" to Raygan, perhaps--and then---

An old impression came back to Peter. He remembered Ena's protest against his friendship for
a "dressmaker," and her kindness later. He remembered asking himself on the dock if Ena could
have made mischief. He had put the thought away as treacherous, not once, but many times. Now
he did not put it away. He faced it, and wondered if he could ever forgive his sister. It seemed
at that moment that he never could.

"Will you choose the cloak for Mrs. Rolls?" Win was asking in the professional tone of the
obliging young saleswoman.

"I--er--yes, I suppose so. Which one do you suggest?"

"Any of these would be charming for--the lady you've described. She'd like it better, I'm sure,
if you chose it yourself."

"No, I want you to choose, please. I've already told her about you. If it hadn't been for her
I shouldn't have found you so soon. She advised me to try the Hands. No matter what you may
think of me, there's only one opinion to have of mother. And you can't object to meeting her.
You choose the cloak and I'll bring her to see you--in it."

Win kept her eyes on the assortment of silk motoring and dust coats which she had arranged
on the broad counter for Mr. Rolls's inspection. Suddenly a great weight was lifted from her
head, as if kind hands had gently removed a tight helmet.

Would such a man as Ena Rolls had sketched in her shadow portrait of a brother bring his mother
to meet a shop girl whom he fancied? It seemed not. Yet men of that type were the cleverest,
as she already knew. Maybe he didn't really mean to bring Mrs. Rolls. It would be easy, from
time to time, to postpone her visit. And Win was very proud. She thought of Ena's annoyance
at happening upon her in the elevator, and how reluctantly Miss Rolls had taken up the cue
of cordiality from Lord Raygan. Oh, it was best--in any case--it was the only way to keep personalities
out of her intercourse with the man who had once been Mr. Balm of Gilead.

"This silver gray is one of the prettiest of the new wraps," she glibly advertised her wares.

"Very well, if you like it, I'll marry--I mean, I'll take it. Tell me how you hurt your hands."

"There's nothing to tell," she put him off again, visibly freezing--an intellectual feat in
such weather. "And--really, as I said before, I don't care to talk about myself."

Her look, even more than her words, shut Peter up. The cloak saved the situation during a few
frigid seconds. But as a situation it had become strained. The only hope for the future was
to go now. And Peter went. He went straight back to Sea Gull Manor and to his father.

CHAPTER XXVI

WHEN THE SECRET CAME OUT

Father was in the library when Peter got home. One did not open the door and walk straight
into this sacred room. One knocked, and if father happened to be engaged in any pursuit which
he did not wish the family eye to see, he had time to smuggle it away and take up a newspaper,
or even a book, before calling out "Come in."

To-day, not being well, he was allowing himself the luxury of a jig-saw puzzle, but as he considered
the amusement frivolous for a man of his position, at the sound of his son's voice he hustled
the board containing the half-finished picture into a drawer of his roll-top desk. In order
to be doing something, he caught up a paper. It was Town Tales, and his eye, searching instinctively
for the name of Rolls, saw that of the Marchese di Rivoli coupled with it and a slighting allusion.
A wave of physical weakness surged over the withered man as he asked himself if he had done
wrong in sanctioning his daughter's engagement to the Italian.

"What do you want?" he greeted Petro testily.

He was invariably testy when indigestion had him in its claw, and his tone gave warning that
this was a bad moment Still Petro was bursting with his subject. He could not bear to postpone
the fight. Instead of putting it off, he resolved to be exceedingly careful in his tactics.

"I want to talk with you, Father, if you don't mind," he began pleasantly. "I hope I'm not
interrupting anything important?"

"I am supposed to be left to myself in the mornings," said Peter senior, martyrized. "Though
I don't go to the store, I must read Croft's reports and keep in touch with things."

"It's about the store I'd like to talk." Peter was thankful for this opening. He perched hesitatingly
on the arm of an adipose easy chair, not having been specifically invited to sit.

"Why, what have you got to say about the Hands?" Defiance underlay tone and look.

"It was in this very room I promised you I'd keep my hands off the Hands," Peter quoted. "But
I want you to let me take the promise back."

"I'll do nothing of the sort!" shrilled Peter senior. "What do you mean?"

"I need to work. I've tried other things, but my thoughts always come back to the Hands. I'm
proud of your success you know. I want to--to batten on it. And I want to carry it on. I have
ideas of my own."

"I bet you have, and damned poor ideas, too," snapped the old man. "I'm not going to have them
tried in my place while I'm alive."

"Let me tell you what some of them are, won't you, before you condemn them?" his son pleaded,
refusing to be ruffled.

"No. I won't have my time wasted on any such childishness," growled Peter senior. "You ought
to know better than to trouble me with every silly, trifling idea you get into your head."

"To me this is not trifling," Peter argued. "It's so serious that if you refuse to take me
into your business--I don't care how humble a position you start me--I shall begin to make
my own way in the world. I can't go on as I am, living on you, with an allowance that comes
out of the Hands, unless you give me some hope that I can soon work up to having a voice in
the management."

"I suppose what you are really hinting at is a bigger allowance under a different name," sneered
old Peter. "Now you're turning socialist--oh, you don't suppose I'm blind when I come to your
name and your quixotic schemes in the newspapers! You don't like the red-hot chaps raving about
'unearned increment,' or whatever they call it."

"No, it isn't that," Peter said simply. "I don't much care what people say, so long as I can
help things along a bit; though, of course, I'd rather it would be with my money than yours,
no matter how generous you are about giving and asking no questions. I don't ask for more,
or want it. But I do want to feel that--forgive me, Father!--I do want to feel that on the
money I handle there's no sweat wrung out of men's bodies or tears from women's eyes."

Peter senior had sat only half turned from his desk, as if suggesting to Peter junior that
the sooner he was allowed to get back to work, the better. But at these last words, unexpected
as a blow, he swung violently round in his revolving chair to glare at the young man.

"Well, I'm damned!" he ejaculated.

Peter sincerely hoped not, but felt that silence was safer than putting his hopes into words.

"This comes of turning socialist! You insult your father who supports you in luxury---"

"I don't mean to insult you, Father, and I don't want to be supported in luxury. I want to
work for every cent I have. I want to work hard."

"I never thought," Peter senior reflected aloud, abruptly changing his tone, "to hear a son
of mine spout this sort of cheap folderol, and I never thought that any one of my blood would
be weak enough to come crawling and begging to break a solemn promise."

"It means strength, not weakness, to break some promises--the kind that never ought to have
been made," Peter junior defended himself. "I'd break it without crawling or begging if I thought
you'd prefer, except that it would be no use. Unless I had your permission, I couldn't get
taken into the Hands."

"Well, you don't get it. See?" retorted the head of the Hands as rudely as he could ever have
spoken in old days to his humblest subordinate.

"Then, Father, if that's your last word on the subject," said Petro, rising, "this means for
you and me, where business is concerned, the parting of the ways."

The old man's sallow face was slowly, darkly suffused with red. "You're trying to bully me,"
he grunted. "But I'm not taking any bluff."

"You misjudge me." Petro still kept his temper. "I'd be a disgusting cad to try on such a game
with you, and I don't think I am that. I'm more thankful than I can tell you for all you've
done for me. You've had a hard life yourself, and you've secured me an easy one. You never
had time to see the world, but you let me see it because I longed to--when I saw you had no
use for me in the business. You let me give money away and, thanks to your generosity, one
or two schemes I had at heart are in working order already. There's enough saved out of my
allowance for the last few years to see them through, if I never take another cent from you.
And I never will, from this day on, Father, while you run the Hands on present lines."

"You're a blank idiot!" snarled the old man; but a strained, almost frightened look was stretched
in queer lines on his yellow face. He was thinking of Ena and of the newspapers. He could hear
the dogs yapping round his feet.

"Young Peter Rolls breaks away from home. Earns his living with his own hands, not father's
Hands. What he says about his principles"--or some such rot as that would certainly appear
in big, black headlines just when Ena and her magnificent marchese were searching the columns
for gush over the forthcoming marriage. It would spoil the girl's pleasure in her wedding.

Old Peter was furious with young Peter, but began angrily to realize that the matter was indeed
serious. He desired to be violent, but fear of Ena dashed cold water on the fire of his rage.
Against his will and against his nature he began to temporize, meaning later to revenge his
present humiliation upon his son.

"Who the devil has been upsetting you with lies about the Hands?" he spluttered.

"I'm afraid we must take for granted that what has 'upset' me isn't lies." Peter let his sadness
show in face and voice. "I don't wonder you're surprised and perhaps angry at my coming to
you and suddenly throwing out some sort of accusations, when year after year I've been receiving
money from the Hands as meek as a lamb without a word or question. I don't defend myself for
lack of interest in the past or for too much now. Maybe I'm to blame both ways. But please
remember, Father, you said that unless I distrusted you, I was to stand aside. After that I
was so anxious to prove I trusted you all right, that I hurried to promise before I'd stopped
to think. Since then I've been made to think--furiously to think--and---"

"I was brought up to believe there was no excuse for breaking a promise," Peter senior cut
him short severely. There was Petro's chance to score, and--right or wrong--he took it.

"Then things have changed since the days when you were being brought up," he said, with one
of those straight, clear looks old Peter had always disliked as between son and father. "Because,
you know you promised Ena you would give up going to the store except for important business
meetings once or twice a year. And you haven't given it up. You go there nearly every night."

Peter senior physically quailed. His great secret was found out! No use to bluster. Somehow
young Peter had got hold of the long-hidden truth. He was, in a way, at the fellow's mercy.
If Petro chose to tell Ena this thing she would fancy that every one except the family knew
how old Peter's grubbing habits had never been shaken off; that with him once a shopkeeper,
always a shopkeeper, and that behind her back people must be laughing at the difference between
her aristocratic airs and her father's commonness.

The old man's stricken face shocked Peter. He was as much ashamed of himself as if he had kicked
his father.

"I oughtn't to have told you, I know," he stammered. "Anyhow, not like this. I'm sorry."

Peter senior gathered himself together and feebly bluffed.

"You needn't be sorry," he blustered in a thin voice at the top of his throat. "What do I care
whether you know or not? There's no disgrace in looking after my own business, I guess! To
please Ena, I've made a sort of secret of it, that's all. I never 'promised.' I only let her
and other folks it didn't concern suppose I lived in idleness, like the lords they admire so
much. No harm in that! As for you, you're welcome to know what I do with my time when I go
to New York. But it's none of your business, all the same, and you'd better keep still about
it, or you'll regret your meddling. Who told you? That's what I want to get at. Who stuffed
you up to the neck with all that damned nonsense about 'sweat and tears?' I bet it's the same
man who tried to blackmail me with my own son about my going to the Hands nights."

"It wasn't a man who told me," said Peter, "it was a woman--or, rather, a girl. It was me she
was blaming, not you. She thought I was responsible for the wrongs she and other employees
suffer from. She didn't know it was a secret, your visiting the place. She simply mentioned
it as a fact---"

"And you, a son of mine, stood quietly listening to abuse of your father and the house that's
made his fortune--his fortune and yours--from a pert young clerk in his store!"

At last Peter senior could speak with the voice of injured virtue. He could reach Peter junior
with the well-deserved lash of reproach. But no! The lash striking out, touched air.

"Father, I listened because I love the girl," Peter answered "Wait, please! Let me explain.
I fell in love with her on the Monarchic. Then something happened and I lost sight of her.
Yesterday I found her at the Hands. I wanted to talk to her about love, but she made me listen
to her instead. She said sharp things about the store that cut like knives. Don't think I'm
accusing you if the Hands is a sweatshop. You trust Croft, and he's abused his trust. That
must be it. For God's sake, give me a chance to help you put things straight."

For a moment--a long moment--Peter senior did not speak, and Peter junior would have given
much to know where his thoughts had gone. They were away somewhere--with the Hands or with
the girl who had made Petro listen.

"Will you do it, Father? Will you give me a chance?" his son repeated.

Old Peter started. "Old Peter" seemed the only name that fitted him just then.

"One of my children is going to marry a marquis and the other wants to marry a clerk behind
my counters," he almost whimpered.

Then Petro knew, without telling, which direction his father's thoughts had taken.

"Don't be afraid that she isn't a lady," the young man humoured the old man's prejudices. "She's
English and beautiful and clever and brave. She saved a woman from being burned to death to-day
at the Hands. She didn't tell me that story, but I heard it. God made her to be a princess.
Misfortune put her behind a counter in our store. Oh, no! not misfortune. Though she's had
a hard time at the Hands, and shows it in her face, I believe she'd say herself that she's
glad of the experience. And if through her those that have suffered wrong from us can be--"

"Don't talk to me any more about all this just now, my son," Peter senior suddenly implored
rather than commanded "You've given me a shock--several shocks. I--I'm not fit for 'em to-day,
I guess. I told you I wasn't well. I'm feeling bad. I'm feeling mighty bad."

His looks confirmed his words. In the last few moments since the angry flush had passed, the
old man's face had faded to a sicklier yellow than Petro had ever seen upon it--except one
day, long ago, when Peter Rolls, Sr., had tried to be a yachtsman in order to please Ena--and
the weather had been unkind. The young man was stabbed by remorse. Reason told him that now
was the moment to press his point home. But compassion bade him withdraw it from the wound.
It was true that his father was not well and had warned him of the fact at the beginning of
their conversation. Petro had gone too far.

"I'm sorry, Father," he apologized. "I meant to stir you up, but I didn't mean to give you
a shock. Shall I ring? Is there anything you want?"

"Only to be alone," replied the other. "I'll lie down here on the sofa. By and by, if I don't
feel better, I'll go to my room maybe and make it dark and sleep this headache off. I don't
remember when I've been so bad. But don't say anything to your mother."

"You mean about your going to the Hands? She knows about the girl."

"No, I mean about my head. I don't care whether or no your mother hears that I go to the Hands.
It's Ena and outside folks I care for, and them only for Ena's sake. She's so proud! And when
she gets home from France--"

"Not a word to her, I promise. Nor to any one outside. But do you know, I believe mother would
be glad to hear that you sometimes go to the store? She'd think it was like old times. And
she loves the old times."

"Tell your mother anything you like. She's got a still tongue in her head." Peter senior gasped
out his words with the desperate air of a man at the end of his tether. "Only go now--go, and
let my head rest. You and I can discuss all these things later. That'll be best for us both."

Peter junior was silenced, though he thought he knew his father too well to draw great encouragement
from an offer of future discussion. The old man assuredly did feel ill, and it would have been
brutal to force him into further argument. The only thing was to go now and attack him again
before the sensitive surface of his feelings had had time thoroughly to harden.

Young Peter and his mother lunched alone together at the stately English hour of two which
Ena had decreed for the household. Old Peter had ordered a cup of hot milk and had sent word
that, his indigestion being rather worse than usual, he intended to spend the afternoon lying
down. This had often happened before, and mother, though distressed, was not alarmed.

She would not have admitted it in words to herself, but she was happy in her tête-à-tête with
Petro. He had his place moved near hers. They dared to dismiss the dignified servants and help
themselves to what they wanted. Or, rather, Petro jumped up and helped her, whether she wanted
things or not. They talked about Miss Child, and Petro related his adventure at the Hands,
which he had not, until the luncheon hour, been able to describe in detail.

He told his mother again, several times over, how wonderful Win was, and mother was not bored.
She listened with a rapt smile, especially to the part about the fire in the hospital room
and the girl's quick presence of mind, Win having refused to confess how she had hurt her hands,
Petro had used the influence of his name to find out tactfully from another source, all that
had happened. And he made quite a good story out of it for his mother. The latter promised
gladly to go and see Miss Child and to wear the pearl-gray wrap, which she thought very pretty,
reflecting marvellous credit on the taste of the chooser.

Petro did not touch upon Miss Child's indictment of the Hands. It seemed unnecessary to distress
mother just when she was interested and even delighted (not at all shocked or startled) at
having father's secret broken to her.

"It's more natural," she said, "that he should take an interest in the Hands. More like he
used to be. I often wondered---"

Another sentence which she did not need to finish!

For a while Petro's whole soul was so steeped in the joy of mother's sympathy, and in plans
for the future, that he forgot the faint uneasiness which had stirred within him at father's
message about the milk. Something had seemed to whisper: "It's only an excuse." And his asking
not to be disturbed all the afternoon, "can it mean that he's got a special reason for wanting
to be let alone hour after hour?"

But Petro and mother had been deep in conversation before the whisper came. In the very midst
of it she had asked a beautifully understanding question about Win, and in answering Petro
forgot everything else for a time.

They talked intimately in the big, unfriendly, imitation Elizabethan dining-room which for
once they had to themselves And then they continued their talk still more intimately in the
"den." It was only the grandfather clock striking four that reminded Petro of his uneasiness
and of the whisper.

Why it did remind him he could hardly have explained, except that the clock had a very curious
individuality for him. It had belonged to his great grandmother and had come down through her
to his mother. Even as a little boy he had felt that it was more than a clock: it was an old
friend who had ticked through the years, keeping time with the heart-beats of those for whom
it told the passing moments of life and death. Often he had imagined that with its ticking
it gave good advice, if only one could understand. Now, when it struck four, it seemed to Petro
that it did so in a dry, peremptory manner intended to be arresting, to remind him of something
important that he was in danger of forgetting.

This pause in his thoughts left room for the whisper to come again. It came, adding to its
first suggestion: "Don't you know that while you and mother were lingering so happily over
your lunch, father stole away and went off to make mischief between you and the girl?"

Petro sprang up. He was ashamed to harbour such a thought of treachery, but it was there. He
could easily learn whether father had gone to New York by inquiring if one of the motors had
been taken out. But it was hardly worth while to ask questions. Peter knew that his father
had gone, and why.

CHAPTER XXVII

THE BATTLE

All the morning Win was in a state of strange, almost hysterical, exaltation. Again and again
she warned her spirit down from the heights, but it would not hear, and stood there in the
sunshine singing a wild song of love and joy.

Wonderful, incredible pictures painted themselves before her eyes. She saw Peter, impressed
with her words--as indeed he had seemed to be--and remembering them nobly for the benefit of
the two thousand hands within the Hands. She saw herself as his wife (oh, bold, forbidden thought,
which dared her to push it from her heart!) helping him reach the ideal standard of what a
great department store should be, planning new and highly improved systems of insurance, thinking
out ways for employees to share profits, and of giving them pensions.

She, who knew what the hands suffered and what they needed, could do for them what no outsider
could ever do. With Peter's money and power and the will to aid, there would be nothing they
two could not accomplish. Their love would teach them how to love the world. She saw the grand
Christmas parties and the summer picnics the Hands would give the hands, and Peter's idea for
a convalescent home should be splendidly carried out. She saw the very furniture and its chintz
covers--then the picture would vanish like a rainbow--or break into disjointed bits, like the
jig-saw puzzle Peter senior had hidden shamefacedly in a drawer.

For some moments Winifred's mind would be a blank save for a jumble of Paris mantles and warm
customers, then another picture would form: she would see Peter and herself sending Sadie Kirk
to the mountains, where the girl would be even happier and healthier than at the new place
which was "free for consumers." Sadie would be Win's own special charge, her Mend, for whom
she had the right and privilege to provide. No more work in shops for Sadie! No more work at
all till she was cured. Perhaps a winter in the Adirondacks, then such radiant health as the
"sardine" had hardly ever known.

Meanwhile the thoughts of Ursus must be turned from the girl who could never love him to the
girl who already did. He and Sadie had been good chums since the day when all three marched
in procession toward Mr. Meggison's window--how long ago it seemed! The big heart of the lion
tamer was easily moved to pity, and pity was akin to love. When she--Win--gently broke it to
him that she was going to marry Peter Rolls, whom she had loved before she ever saw her poor
Ursus (of course she had loved Peter always! that was why it had hurt her so cruelly to believe
Ena) the dear big fellow, pitying Sadie's weakness, would turn to his "little old chum" for
comfort.

Oh, yes, everything would come right! warbled the disobedient spirit singing on the heights.
Then the common sense and pride in Win would pluck the spirit's robe, and presto! another picture
would dissolve into gray cloud.

Going out to luncheon (ice-cream soda and a sponge cake) somehow broke the radiant charm. Common
sense put the singing spirit relentlessly into its proper place, where, discouraged, it sang
no more. Ugly memories of last night's danger and humiliation crowded back into the brain no
longer irradiated by Peter's presence. Win felt dully that none of the glorious fancies of
the morning could ever come true, though she still hoped that her words might have some living
influence upon the future of the Hands.

Even if Peter really and truly wanted to marry her (which seemed incredible), and his sister
misjudged him (also well-nigh incredible), Ena Rolls and Ena Rolls's father would bar the way
to any such happiness as the magic pictures had shown. It would be hateful to force herself
upon a snobbish family who despised her and let her see that she was unwelcome.

The girl was suddenly surprised because she hadn't seen, the moment Peter's back was turned
(even if not before), that the one self-respecting thing was to give up her place at the Hands.
It would be decent and rather noble to disappear as she had disappeared before, so that Peter,
when he came again (as he surely would), should find her gone.

This thought made so gloomy a picture in contrast with the forbidden bright ones, that Win
was nearer tears than she had been in the hospital room.

"Laugh--laugh--if you laugh like a hyena!" she was saying to herself between half-past four
and five, when other girls were thinking of the nice things they would do when they got home.

Win envied them. She wished the things that satisfied them could satisfy her. Yet, no, she
did not wish that. Divine dissatisfaction was better. She must keep that conviction before
her through years which might otherwise be gray. For now she was quite sure that nothing beautiful,
nothing glorious, nothing even exciting, could ever happen to her. And it was at this very
moment that she received a peremptory summons to Mr. Croft's office.

"It'll be about the fire, maybe," the nicest girl in the department encouraged her. "I shouldn't
wonder if they're going to give you a reward. If there was anything wrong, the word would come
through Meggison sure."

Win smiled thanks as she went to her fate; the girl was kind, not of the tigress breed. But
she couldn't guess how little any paltry act of injustice from the Hands would matter now.

Miss Child had never before been called to the office of the great Mr. Croft, but she knew
where it was, and walked to the door persuading herself that she was not in the least afraid.
Why should she be afraid when she intended--really quite intended--to leave the Hands of her
own accord?

There was an outer office guarding the inner shrine, and here a girl typist and a waxy-faced
young man were getting ready to go home. It was now very near the closing hour. The waxy-faced
youth, a secretary of Mr. Croft's, minced to the shrine door, opened it, spoke, returned, and
announced that Miss Child was to go in. He even held the door for her, which might be a sign
of respect, or of compassion for one about to be executed. Then, as the girl stepped in, the
door closed behind her, and she stood in an expensively hideous room, looking at a little,
dried-up dark man who sat in Mr. Croft's chair at Mr. Croft's desk. But he was not Mr. Croft.
He was Peter Rolls, Sr.

Win recognized him instantly and knew not what to think. Luckily he did not keep her long in
suspense.

"You Miss Child?" he shortly inquired, holding her with a steady stare, which from a younger
man would have been offensive.

"I am, sir," she said in the low, sweet voice that Peter junior loved. Even Peter senior was
impressed with it in spite of himself, impressed with the whole personality of the young woman
whom Petro had said was "made to be a princess." She looked a more difficult proposition than
he had expected to tackle.

"Know who I am?" he continued his catechism.

"You are Mr. Rolls."

"What makes you so sure of that, eh?"

"You were pointed out to me one evening last winter, when you were inspecting the shop with
Mr. Croft."

"Nobody had any business pointing me out. Who did?"

"I'm afraid I've forgotten," said the girl, more calmly than she felt. "It was so long ago."

"You seem to have been dead certain he was right."

"I took it for granted."

"That's dangerous, taking things for granted. I advise you not to do it, Miss Child."

Still he stared as she received his advice in silence. Not a feature of the piquant, yet proud,
arresting face, not a curve of the slim figure, did his old eyes miss.

"I guess you haven't forgotten who pointed me out," he persisted, after a pause. "Now think
again. Have you? It might pay to remember."

"I do not remember, sir." She threw up her head in the characteristic way which the other Peter
knew.

"Sure nothing could make you remember?"

"I'm sure nothing could."

"Very well, then, we must let that go for the present. Now to another subject. I hear you showed
a good deal of pluck this morning in putting out a fire."

"Oh, after all, it may be only that!" Win thought.

She ought to have been relieved. But she was not certain whether relief was her most prominent
emotion. The girl did not quite know what to make of herself, and the man was not giving her
much time for reflection.

"The little I did was done on the spur of the moment," she said. "I don't deserve any credit."

"Well, I may be inclined to think different when it comes to settling up. That depends on several
things. We'll come to 'em by and by. You're English, ain't you?"

"Yes."

"H-m! You look as if you ought to have titles running in your family. Have you got any?"

Win fancied that this must be her employer's idea of a joke, but his face was grave, and even
curiously eager. "Not one," she answered, smiling.

"No connections with titles?"

"Why, yes, we have some cousins afflicted in that way," she lightly admitted, beginning to
be faintly amused as well as puzzled. "Almost every one has, in our country, I suppose."

"What sort of title is it?"

"Oh, my father's second cousin happens to be an earl."

"An earl, is he? That stands pretty high, I guess, on your side. Any chance of your father
inheriting?"

This time Win allowed herself the luxury of a laugh. What a strange old man! And this was Mr.
Balm of Gilead's father!

She was still in the dark as to why he had sent for her. But it must be on account of the fire.
His curiosity was very funny. In any one except Peter's father she would have considered it
ridiculous. Maybe he wanted to work up a good "story" in the newspapers. Very likely it could
be turned into an "ad" for the Hands if the cousin of an English earl had saved a fellow employee
from burning up, and it would be still more thrilling if the heroine might some day turn into
a haughty Lady Winifred Something. She shook her head, looking charming. Even old Peter, staring
so intently, must have admitted that.

"There's not the remotest chance," she replied. "Our cousin, Lord Glenellen, has six sons.
Four are married and having more sons every year. I don't know how many there are. And I'm
sure that they've forgotten our existence."

"Well, there ain't much show for you in that connection!"

Mr. Rolls reluctantly abandoned the earldom. "What's your father, anyhow?"

"A clergyman," said Win. "A poor clergyman, or I should never have seen America."

"I suppose you'd have married some fellow over there. What did you do for a living on your side?"

"I hadn't begun to do anything till I engaged with Nadine--the dressmaker, you know--to be
one of her models on board the Monarchic so as to get my passage free. I thought I should be
sure to make a fortune in New York."

"Yes, I guess that was your point of view. You're frank about it, ain't you?"

"One may be about a lost illusion."

"There's more than one way for a girl to make a fortune. Maybe you and I can do business. So
you were one of those models when you first met my son?"

Win would not have been flesh and blood if that shot had not told, especially after the old
man's funny catechizing had lured her amusingly away from suspicion. She quivered, and a bright
colour stained her cheeks. Nevertheless those peering eyes found no guilt in her look.

"Yes," she answered bravely. "He bought a dress from us for his sister."

"One excuse is as good as another for a young fellow. What else did he do?"

"Gave us patent medicine. We were all dreadfully seasick."

"You don't mean to tell me he fell in love with you when you were seasick?"

"I don't mean to tell you that he fell in love with me at all, Mr. Rolls."

"I guess you didn't mean to. But, you see, I made you own up."

"There was nothing to tell."

"Well, the murder's out, anyhow. And that brings us back to a point I want to make. Now that
affair of this morning. You say you're entitled to no credit. But I've been thinking I'd like
to make it up to you by giving a reward."

"I couldn't think of taking it!" cried Win.

Strange that he should break off suddenly from the subject of his son (which, apparently, he
had intended pursuing to some end), and jump back to that of the fire! He must have a motive--he
looked a man to have motives for everything. She felt that he was laying a trap for her, if
she could only find it.

"Wait a minute. Give me time to make myself clear," he went on. "I'm not talking about medals
or lockets or silver cups for good girls. I mean a thumping sum, a big enough stone to kill
two birds. Folks not in the know would think that it was for saving life. Those in the know
(meaning me and you, and nobody else) would understand that it was for saving my son. No disrespect
to you. I want to put it delicately, miss. Saving him from a mistake."

Win had always thought "How dare you?" a very silly expression, no matter what the provocation.
Yet now she was tempted to use it. Only her subconscious sense of humour, which warned her
it would be ridiculous from Peter Rolls's "saleslady" to Peter Rolls himself, made her bite
back the words that rushed to the end of her tongue.

"You have a strange idea of putting things delicately!" she cried. "You offer me a reward if
I--if I--oh, I can't say it!"

"I can," volunteered the old man coolly. "And I'll tell you just how much I offer. Maybe that'll
help your talking apparatus. I'll give you ten thousand dollars. Wouldn't that be something
like making your fortune in New York?"

"If it were ten millions it would make no difference," the girl flung at him. "I---"

"Say, you set a high value on my son Peter. But if he marries you, my girl, he won't be worth
any millions, or even thousands, I tell you straight. He won't be worth a red cent. You'd better
pick up my offer while it's going, and drop Peter. Maybe with ten thousand dollars of your
own, one of your young cousins, the earls, might find you worth while."

Never had Win even dreamed that it was possible for a human soul so to boil with anger as hers
had now begun to boil. She wanted to scald this hateful old man with burning spray from the
geyser. At last she understood the rage which could kill. Yet it was in a low, restrained voice
that she heard herself speaking.

"Please don't go on," she warned him. "I suppose you don't quite realize how hideously you're
insulting me. A man who could say such things wouldn't. And only such a man could misunderstand--could
think that instead of refusing his money I was bidding for more. I wanted to say that you could
save your son and your pocket, too. Neither are in danger from me."

"That ain't the way the boy feels about it," Peter senior slipped the words in slyly. "If he
did, I wouldn't have sent for you."

This was the last drop in the cup.

"What?" cried the girl, towering over the shrunken figure in the revolving chair. "Your son
asked you to send for me? Then he's as bad, as cruel, as you are."

A red wave of rage swept over her. She no longer knew what she was saying. Her one wish--her
one object in life, it seemed just then--was to hurt both Peters.

"I hate him!" she exclaimed. "Everything I've heard about him is true, after all. He's a false
friend and a false lover--a dangerous, cruel man to women, just as I was warned he was."

"Stop right there," broke in Peter's father. "That's damn nonsense, and you know it. Nobody
ever warned you that my boy was anything of the kind.