But having had a taste of the pleasures and comforts that wealth would bring, Bella had quite
determined when she married to marry nobody but a very rich man. Mr. and Mrs. Boffin both noticed
how changed she was growing from her own sweet self and regretted it, for they liked Bella
and they liked the secretary, too, and they could easily see that the latter was in love with her.

One day Mrs. Boffin went to the secretary's room for something. As she entered, Rokesmith,
who was sitting sadly over the fire, looked up with a peculiar expression that told the good
woman all in a flash who he was.

"I know you now," she cried, "you're little John Harmon!"

In the joy and surprise she almost fainted, but he caught her and set her down beside him.
Just then in came Mr. Boffin, and the secretary told them the whole story, and how he now loved
Bella, but would not declare himself because of her contempt.

Both Mr. and Mrs. Boffin were so glad to know he was really alive they fell to crying with
joy. The Golden Dustman declared that, no matter how the last will read, John should have the
fortune for his own. Rokesmith (or Harmon) at first refused to do this, but Mr. Boffin swore
that if he did not he himself would not touch the money, and it would have to go to the Crown
anyway. So at last it was agreed that Mr. Boffin should keep a small portion for his own, but
that the other should take all the rest.

Mr. Boffin wanted to tell everybody the truth at once, but John would not let them. You see
he wouldn't marry Bella for anything unless she loved him for himself alone. And she was growing
so fond of riches that there seemed little chance of this happening.

Nevertheless they believed that at heart Bella was good and sweet, if they could only get to
her real self, so Mr. Boffin that moment made a plan.

He determined to show Bella how much unhappiness misused riches could cause, and how too much
money might sometimes spoil the kindest and best people. As a lesson to her in this he was
to pretend gradually to turn into a mean, hard-hearted miser. They agreed that he should begin
to treat the secretary harshly and unjustly in Bella's presence, feeling sure that her true
self would stand up for him when he was slighted, and be kinder to him when he seemed poorest
and most friendless.

The Golden Dustman began the new plan that very night. Every day he made himself act like a
regular brown bear, and every evening he would say, "I'll be a grislier old growler to-morrow."
He made the secretary slave from morning till night and found fault with him and sneered at
his poverty and cut down his wages.

Each afternoon, when he went walking with Bella, Mr. Boffin would make her go into bookshops
and inquire if they had any book about a miser. If they had, he would buy it, no matter what
it cost, and lug it home to read. He began to drive hard bargains for everything he bought
and all his talk came to be about money and the fine thing it was to have it.

"Go in for money, my dear," he would say to Bella. That's the state to live and die in--R-r-rich!"

Bella was greatly shocked at the sorrowful change in Mr. Boffin. Wealth began to look less
lovely when she saw him growing so miserly. She began to wonder if she herself might ever become
like that, too, and sometimes, when she thought how kind and generous the old Mr. Boffin had
been, she fairly hated money and wished it had never been invented.

There was an old woman who peddled knitting-work through the country whom Mr. and Mrs. Boffin
had befriended, and to whom they had given a letter to carry wherever she went. This letter
asked whoever should find her, if she fell sick, to let them know. The old woman fell and died
one day by the roadside near the spot where Lizzie Hexam was now living, and Lizzie, finding
the letter, wrote about it to Mr. and Mrs. Boffin.

They sent the secretary and Bella, to make arrangements for the poor woman's burial, and in
this way Bella met Lizzie and became her friend. Lizzie soon told her all her story, and Bella,
seeing how unselfishly she loved, began to think her own ambition to marry for money a mean
and ignoble thing. She thought how patient and kind the secretary had always been, and, knowing
he loved her, wished heartily that her own coldness had not forbidden him to tell her so.

One day Mr. Boffin's pretended harsh treatment of his secretary seemed to come to a climax.
He sent for him to come to the room where Mrs. Boffin and Bella sat, and made a fearful scene.
He said he had just heard that he, Rokesmith, had been presuming on his position to make love
to Bella--a young lady who wanted to marry money, who had a right to marry money, and who was
very far from wanting to marry a poor beggar of a private secretary! He threw the wages that
were due Rokesmith on the floor and discharged him on the spot, telling him the sooner he could
pack up and leave, the better.

Then, at last, in the face of this apparent meanness and injustice, Bella saw herself and Mr.
Boffin's money and John Rokesmith's love and dignity, all in their true light. She burst out
crying, begged Rokesmith's forgiveness, told Mr. Boffin he was an old wretch of a miser, and
when the secretary had gone, she said Rokesmith was a gentleman and worth a million Boffins,
and she would not stay in the house a minute longer.

Then she packed up her things and went straight to her father's office. All the other clerks
had gone home, for it was after hours, and she put her head on his shoulder and told him all
about it.

And while they were talking, in came John Rokesmith, and seeing her there alone with her father,
rushed to her and caught her in his arms.

"My dear, brave, noble, generous girl!" he said, and Bella, feeling all at once that she had
never been quite so happy in her life, laid her head on his breast, as if that were the one
place for it in all the world.

They had a talk together and then walked home to Mr. Wilfer's poor little house, Bella's father
agreeing that she had done exactly the proper thing, and Bella herself feeling so happy now
in having John Rokesmith's love, that she cared not a bit for the fine mansion and clothes
and money of the Boffins which she had left for ever.

A few days later John Rokesmith and Bella were married and went to live in a little furnished
cottage outside of London, where they settled down as happy as two birds.

V

THE END OF THE STORY

While these things were happening at Mr. Boffin's house, Eugene Wrayburn, with Headstone the
schoolmaster watching him like a hawk, had never left off trying to find where Lizzie Hexam
had gone. At length, through the "troublesome child" of the little dolls' dressmaker, he learned
the name of the village where she was living and went at once to see her.

Headstone followed close behind him and when, from his hiding-place, he saw how glad Lizzie
was to see the lawyer, he went quite mad with jealousy and hate, and that moment he determined
to kill Wrayburn.

It happened that Rogue Riderhood was then working on the river that flowed past the village,
where he tended a lock. The schoolmaster, in order to turn suspicion from himself in case any
one should see him when he did this wicked deed, observing carefully how Riderhood was dressed,
got himself clothes exactly like the lock tender's, even to a red handkerchief tied around
his neck.

In this guise, with murder in his heart, he lay in wait along the riverside till Wrayburn passed
one evening just after he had bade good night to Lizzie Hexam. The schoolmaster crept up close
behind the lawyer and struck him a fearful crashing blow on the head with a club. Wrayburn
grappled with him, but Headstone struck again and again with the bloody weapon, and still again
as the other lay prostrate at his feet, and dragging the body to the bank, threw it into the
river. Then he fled.

Lizzie Hexam had not yet turned homeward from the riverside. She heard through the night the
sound of the blows, the faint moan and the splash. She ran to the spot, saw the trampled grass,
and, looking across the water, saw a bloody face drifting away. She ran to launch a boat, and
rowed with all her strength to overtake it.

But for her dreadful life on the river with her father she could not have found the drowning
man in the darkness, but she did, and then she saw it was the man she loved. One terrible cry
she uttered, then rowed with desperate strokes to the shore and with superhuman strength carried
him to a near-by inn.

Wrayburn was not dead, but was dreadfully disfigured. For many days he hovered between life
and death. Jennie Wren, the dolls' dressmaker, came, and she and Lizzie nursed him. As soon
as he could speak he made them understand that before he died he wanted Lizzie to marry him.
A minister was sent for, and with him came John Rokesmith and Bella. So the sick man was married
to Lizzie, and from that hour he began to get better, till before long they knew that he would
recover.

Meanwhile, not waiting to see the result of his murderous attack, Headstone had fled down the
river bank to the hut where Riderhood lived and there the villainous lock tender let him rest
and sleep. As the schoolmaster tossed in his guilty slumber, Riderhood noted that his clothes
were like his own. He unbuttoned the sleeping man's jacket, saw the red handkerchief, and,
having heard from a passing boatman of the attempted murder, he guessed that Headstone had
done it and saw how he had plotted to lay the crime on him.

When the schoolmaster went away Riderhood followed him, watched him change clothes in the bushes
and rescued the bloody garments the other threw away.

With these in his hands he faced the schoolmaster one day in his class room and made him promise,
under threat of exposure, to come that night to the hut by the lock. Headstone was afraid to
disobey. When he came, Riderhood told him he must give him money at once or he would follow
him till he did.

Headstone refused and, as the other had threatened, when he started back to London, he found
the lock tender by his side. He returned to the hut and the other did the same.

He started again, and again the other walked beside him. Then Headstone, turning suddenly,
caught Riderhood around the waist and dragged him to the edge of the lock.

"Let go!" said Riderhood. "You can't drown me!"

"I can," panted Headstone. "And I can drown myself. I'll hold you living and I'll hold you
dead. Come down!"

Riderhood went over backward into the water, and the schoolmaster upon him. When they found
them, long afterward, Riderhood's body was girdled still with the schoolmaster's arms and they
held him tight.

This was the awful end of the two wicked men whom fate had brought into Lizzie's life.

All this time, of course, Bella had been believing her husband to be very poor. At first he
had intended to tell her who he was on the day they were married, but he said to himself: "No,
she's so unselfish and contented I can't afford to be rich yet." So he pretended to get a position
in the city at small wages. Then after a few months he thought it over again, and he said to
himself, "She's such a cheerful little housewife that I can't afford to be rich yet." And at
last a little baby was born to Bella, and then they were so happy that he said, "She's so much
sweeter than she ever was that I can't afford to be rich just yet!"

But meantime Bella was imagining that Mr. Boffin was a cruel old miser, and Mr. Boffin didn't
like this, so John agreed that he would tell her all about it.

But first he got Bella to describe exactly the kind of house she would like if they were very,
very rich, and when she told him, he and Mr. Boffin had the Boffin mansion fixed over in just
the way she had said--with a nursery with rainbow-colored walls and flowers on the staircase,
and even a little room full of live birds, and a jewel box full of jewels on the dressing-table.

Fate, however, had arranged even a greater trial of Bella's love for him than all the others.
As they walked together on the street one day, they came face to face with a man who had been
in the police office on the night the body which every one believed to be John Harmon's had
lain there. He had seen the entrance of the agitated stranger, and had helped the police in
their later vain search for Rokesmith. Now he at once recognized Bella's husband as that man,
who the police believed had probably committed the murder.

Rokesmith knew the man had recognized him, and when they got home he told Bella that he was
accused of killing the man the Harmon will had bidden her marry.

But nothing now could shake her faith in him. "How dare they!" she cried indignantly. "My beloved
husband." He caught her in his arms at that, and while he held her thus the officers entered
to arrest him.

Rokesmith found the matter very easy to explain to the satisfaction of the police, but he told
Bella nothing as yet, and, trusting and believing in him absolutely, she waited in great wonder.
Next day he told her he had a new position and that now they must live in the city where he
had taken a furnished house for them.

They drove together to see it. Strangely enough it seemed to be in the same street as Mr. Boffin's
house, and stranger yet, the coach stopped at Mr. Boffin's own door. Her husband put his arm
around her and drew her in, and she saw that everything was covered with flowers. As he led
her on she exclaimed in astonishment to see the little room full of birds just as she had wished.

Then of course the whole story came out. The mystery was solved and she knew that John Rokesmith
was the true John Harmon and that her husband was really the man the Harmon will had picked
out for her to marry.

In the splendid Boffin house they lived happily for many years, surrounded by Bella's children.
And they were never so happy as when they welcomed Eugene Wrayburn with Lizzie his wife, or
Jennie Wren, the little dolls' dressmaker.

A TALE OF TWO CITIES

PUBLISHED 1859

Scene: London and Paris

Time: 1775 to 1792

CHARACTERS

    Doctor Manette                              A French physician
           Rescued after long imprisonment in the Bastille

    Lucie                                             His daughter

    Miss Pross                                   Her English nurse

    Sydney Carton               An idle and dissipated law student

    Mr. Lorry                   The agent of an English bank doing
                                              business in Paris

    The Marquis de St. Evrémonde                 A French nobleman

    Charles Darnay                                      His nephew
            A young Frenchman living in England as a tutor
           Later, the Marquis de St. Evrémonde, and Lucie's
                               husband

    Gabelle                 The steward of Darnay's French estates

    Defarge                               A Paris wine shop keeper
                   A leader of the revolutionists

    Madame Defarge                                        His wife

    Barsad                                       A spy and turnkey

A TALE OF TWO CITIES

I

HOW LUCIE FOUND A FATHER

A little more than a hundred years ago there lived in London (one of the two cities of this
tale) a lovely girl of seventeen named Lucie Manette. Her mother had died when she was a baby,
in France, and she lived alone with her old nurse, Miss Pross, a homely, grim guardian with
hair as red as her face, who called Lucie "ladybird" and loved her very much. Miss Pross was
sharp of speech and was always snapping people up as if she would bite their heads off, but,
though she seldom chose to show it, she was the kindest, truest, most unselfish person in the
world. Lucie had no memory of her father, and had always believed he also had died when she
was a baby.

One day, however, through a Mr. Lorry, the agent of a bank, she learned a wonderful piece of
news. He told her that her father was not dead, but that he had been wickedly thrown into a
secret prison in Paris before she was born, and had been lost thus for eighteen long years.
This prison was the Bastille--a cold, dark building like a castle, with high gray towers, a
deep moat and drawbridge, and soldiers and cannon to defend it.

In those days in France the rich nobles who belonged to the royal court were very powerful
and overbearing, and the rest of the people had few rights. One could be put into prison then
without any trial at all, so that many innocent people suffered. Lucie's mother had guessed
that Doctor Manette (for he was a physician) had in some way incurred the hatred of some one
of the nobles and had thus been taken from her; but all she certainly knew was that he had
disappeared one day in Paris and had never come back.

For a year she had tried in every way to find him, but at length, desolate and heartbroken,
she had fallen ill and died, leaving little Lucie with only Miss Pross, her English nurse,
to care for her. Mr. Lorry himself, who told Lucie this story, having known her father, had
brought her, a baby, to London in his arms.

Now, he told her, after all these years, her father had been released, and was at that moment
in Paris in charge of a man named Defarge, who had once been his servant. But the long imprisonment
had affected his mind, so that he was little more than the broken wreck of the man he had once
been. Mr. Lorry was about to go to Paris to identify him, and he wished Lucie to go also to
bring him to himself.

You can imagine that Lucie's heart was both glad and sorrowful at the news; joyful that the
father she had always believed dead was alive, and yet full of grief for his condition. She
hastily made ready and that same day set out with Mr. Lorry for France.

When they reached Paris they went at once to find Defarge. He was a stern, forbidding man,
who kept a cheap wine shop in one of the poorer quarters of the city. He took them through
a dirty courtyard behind the shop and up five flights of filthy stairs to a door, which he
unlocked for them to enter.

In the dim room sat a withered, white-haired old man on a low bench making shoes. His cheeks
were worn and hollow, his eyes were bright and his long beard was as white as snow. He wore
a ragged shirt, and his hands were thin and transparent from confinement. It was Lucie's father,
Doctor Manette!

He scarcely looked up when they entered, for his mind was gone and he knew no one. All that
seemed to interest him was his shoemaking. He had forgotten everything else. He even thought
his own name was "One hundred and five, North Tower," which had been the number of his cell
in the Bastille.

Lucie's heart almost broke to see him. She wanted to throw her arms about him, to lay her head
on his breast and tell him she was his daughter who loved him and had come to take him home
at last. But she was afraid this would frighten him.

She came close to him, and after a while he began to look at her. She greatly resembled her
dead mother, and presently her face seemed to remind him of something. He unwound a string
from around his neck and unfolded a little rag which was tied to it, and there was a lock of
hair like Lucie's. Then he suddenly burst into tears--the first he had shed for long, long
years--and the tears seemed to bring back a part of the past. Lucie took him in her arms and
soothed him, while Mr. Lorry went to bring the coach that was to take them to England.

Through all their preparations for departure her father sat watching in a sort of scared wonder,
holding tight to Lucie's hand like a child, and when they told him to come with them he descended
the stairs obediently. But he would not go into the coach without his bench and shoemaking
tools, and, to quiet him, they were obliged to take them, too.

So the father and daughter and Mr. Lorry journeyed back to Lucie's home in London. All the
miles they rode Lucie held her father's hand, and the touch seemed to give him strength and
confidence.

On the boat crossing to London was a young man who called himself Charles Darnay, handsome,
dark and pale. He was most kind to Lucie, and showed her how to make a couch on deck for her
father, and how she could shelter it from the wind. In the long months that followed their
arrival, while the poor old man regained a measure of health, she never forgot Darnay's face
and his kindness to them.

Doctor Manette's mind and memory came slowly back with his improving health. There were some
days when his brain clouded. Then Lucie would find him seated at his old prison bench making
shoes, and she would coax him away and talk to him until the insanity would pass away.

So time went by peacefully till a strange thing happened: Charles Darnay, who had been so kind
to Lucie and her father on the boat, was arrested on a charge of treason.

England at that time was not on good terms with France, and Darnay, who was of French birth,
was accused of selling information concerning the English forts and army to the French Government.
This was a very serious charge, for men convicted of treason then were put to death in the
cruelest ways that could be invented.

The charge was not true, and Darnay himself knew quite well who was working against him.

The fact was that Charles Darnay was not his true name. He was really Charles St. Evrémonde,
the descendant of a rich and noble French family, though he chose to live in London as Charles
Darnay, and earned his living by giving lessons in French. He did this because he would not
be one of the hated noble class of his own country, who treated the poor so heartlessly.

In France the peasants had to pay many oppressive taxes, and were wretched and half-starved,
while the rich nobles rode in gilded coaches, and, if they ran over a little peasant child,
threw a coin to its mother and drove on without a further thought. Among the hardest-hearted
of all, and the most hated by the common people, were the Evrémondes, the family of the young
man who was now accused of treason. As soon as he was old enough to know how unjust was his
family's treatment of the poor who were dependent on them, he had protested against it. When
he became a man he had refused to live on the money that was thus taken from the hungry peasantry,
and had left his home and come to London to earn his own way by teaching.

His heartless uncle, the Marquis de St. Evrémonde, in France, the head of the family, hated
the young man for this noble spirit. It was this uncle who had invented the plot to accuse
his nephew of treason. He had hired a dishonest spy known as Barsad, who swore he had found
papers in Darnay's trunk that proved his guilt, and, as Darnay had been often back and forth
to France on family matters, the case looked dark for him.

Cruelly enough, among those who were called to the trial as witnesses, to show that Darnay
had made these frequent journeys to France, were Doctor Manette and Lucie--because they had
seen him on the boat during that memorable crossing. Lucie's tears fell fast as she gave her
testimony, believing him innocent and knowing that her words would be used to condemn him.

Darnay would doubtless have been convicted but for a curious coincidence: A dissipated young
lawyer, named Sydney Carton, sitting in the court room, had noticed with surprise that he himself
looked very much like the prisoner; in fact, that they were so much alike they might almost
have been taken for twin brothers. He called the attention of Darnay's lawyer to this, and
the latter--while one of the witnesses against Darnay was making oath that he had seen him
in a certain place in France--made Carton take off his wig (all lawyers wear wigs in England
while in court) and stand up beside Darnay. The two were so alike the witness was puzzled,
and he could not swear which of the two he had seen. For this reason Darnay, to Lucie's great
joy, was found not guilty.

Sydney Carton, who had thought of and suggested this clever thing, was a reckless, besotted
young man. He cared for nobody, and nobody, he used to say, cared for him. He lacked energy
and ambition to work and struggle for himself, but for the sake of plenty of money with which
to buy liquor, he studied cases for another lawyer, who was fast growing rich by his labor.
His master, who hired him, was the lion; Carton was content, through his own indolence and
lack of purpose, to be the jackal.

His conscience had always condemned him for this, and now, as he saw the innocent Darnay's
look, noble and straightforward, so like himself as he might have been, and as he thought of
Lucie's sweet face and of how she had wept as she was forced to give testimony against the
other, Carton felt that he almost hated the man whose life he had saved.

The trial brought Lucie and these two men (so like each other in feature, yet so unlike in
character) together, and afterward they often met at Doctor Manette's house.

It was in a quiet part of London that Lucie and her father lived, all alone save for the faithful
Miss Pross. They had little furniture, for they were quite poor, but Lucie made the most of
everything. Doctor Manette had recovered his mind, but not all of his memory. Sometimes he
would get up in the night and walk up and down, up and down, for hours. At such times Lucie
would hurry to him and walk up and down with him till he was calm again. She never knew why
he did this, but she came to believe he was trying vainly to remember all that had happened
in those lost years which he had forgotten. He kept his prison bench and tools always by him,
but as time went on he gradually used them less and less often.

Mr. Lorry, with his flaxen wig and constant smile, came to tea every Sunday with them and helped
to keep Doctor Manette cheerful. Sometimes Darnay, Sydney Carton and Mr. Lorry would meet there
together, but of them all, Darnay came oftenest, and soon it was easy to see that he was in
love with Lucie.

Sydney Carton, too, was in love with her, but he was perfectly aware that he was quite undeserving,
and that Lucie could never love him in return. She was the last dream of his wild, careless
life, the life he had wasted and thrown away. Once he told her this, and said that, although
he could never be anything to her himself, he would give his life gladly to save any one who
was near and dear to her.

Lucie fell in love with Darnay at length and one day they were married and went away on their
wedding journey.

Until then, since his rescue, Lucie had never been out of Doctor Manette's sight. Now, though
he was glad for her happiness, yet he felt the pain of the separation so keenly that it unhinged
his mind again. Miss Pross and Mr. Lorry found him next morning making shoes at the old prison
bench and for nine days he did not know them at all. At last, however, he recovered, and then,
lest the sight of it affect him, one day when he was not there they chopped the bench to pieces
and burned it up.

But her father was better after Lucie came back with her husband, and they took up their quiet
life again. Darnay loved Lucie devotedly. He supported himself still by teaching. Mr. Lorry
came from the bank oftener to tea and Sydney Carton more rarely, and their life was peaceful
and content.

Once after his marriage, his cruel uncle, the Marquis de St. Evrémonde, sent for Darnay to
come to France on family matters. Darnay went, but declined to remain or to do the other's bidding.

But his uncle's evil life was soon to be ended. While Darnay was there the marquis was murdered
one night in his bed by a grief-crazed laborer, whose little child his carriage had run over.

Darnay returned to England, shocked and horrified the more at the indifference of the life
led by his race in France. Although now, by the death of his uncle, he had himself become the
Marquis de St. Evrémonde, yet he would not lay claim to the title, and left all the estates
in charge of one of the house servants, an honest steward named Gabelle.

He had intended after his return to Lucie to settle all these affairs and to dispose of the
property, which he felt it wrong for him to hold; but in the peace and happiness of his life
in England he put it off and did nothing further.

And this neglect of Darnay's--as important things neglected are apt to prove--came before long
to be the cause of terrible misfortune and agony to them all.

II

DARNAY CAUGHT IN THE NET

While these things were happening in London, the one city of this tale, other very different
events were occurring in the other city of the story--Paris, the French capital.

The indifference and harsh oppression of the court and the nobles toward the poor had gone
on increasing day by day, and day by day the latter had grown more sullen and resentful. All
the while the downtrodden people of Paris were plotting secretly to rise in rebellion, kill
the king and queen and all the nobles, seize their riches and govern France themselves.

The center of this plotting was Defarge, the keeper of the wine shop, who had cared for Doctor
Manette when he had first been released from prison. Defarge and those he trusted met and planned
often in the very room where Mr. Lorry and Lucie had found her father making shoes. They kept
a record of all acts of cruelty toward the poor committed by the nobility, determining that,
when they themselves should be strong enough, those thus guilty should be killed, their fine
houses burned, and all their descendants put to death, so that not even their names should
remain in France. This was a wicked and awful determination, but these poor, wretched people
had been made to suffer all their lives, and their parents before them, and centuries of oppression
had killed all their pity and made them as fierce as wild beasts that only wait for their cages
to be opened to destroy all in their path.

They were afraid, of course, to keep any written list of persons whom they had thus condemned,
so Madame Defarge, the wife of the wine seller, used to knit the names in fine stitches into
a long piece of knitting that she seemed always at work on.

Madame Defarge was a stout woman with big coarse hands and eyes that never seemed to look at
any one, yet saw everything that happened. She was as strong as a man and every one was somewhat
afraid of her. She was even crueler and more resolute than her husband. She would sit knitting
all day long in the dirty wine shop, watching and listening, and knitting in the names of people
whom she hoped soon to see killed.

One of the hated names that she knitted over and over again was "Evrémonde." The laborer who,
in the madness of his grief for his dead child, had murdered the Marquis de St. Evrémonde,
Darnay's hard-hearted uncle, had been caught and hanged; and, because of this, Defarge and
his wife and the other plotters had condemned all of the name of Evrémonde to death.

