I would I could have carried along with me to Midway Island all the writers and the prating
artists of my time. Day after day of hope deferred, of heat, of unremitting toil; night after
night of aching limbs, bruised hands, and a mind obscured with the grateful vacancy of physical
fatigue. The scene, the nature of my employment, the rugged speech and faces of my fellow-toilers,
the glare of the day on deck, the stinking twilight in the bilge, the shrill myriads of the
ocean-fowl; above all, the sense of our immitigable isolation from the world and from the current
epoch--keeping another time, some eras old; the new day heralded by no daily paper, only by
the rising sun; and the State, the churches, the peopled empires, war, and the rumours of war,
and the voices of the arts, all gone silent as in the days ere they were yet invented. Such
were the conditions of my new experience in life, of which (if I had been able) I would have
had all my confrères and contemporaries to partake, forgetting, for that while, the orthodoxies
of the moment, and devoted to a single and material purpose under the eye of heaven.

Of the nature of our task I must continue to give some summary idea. The forecastle was lumbered
with ship's chandlery, the hold nigh full of rice, the lazarette crowded with the teas and
silks. These must all be dug out; and that made but a fraction of our task. The hold was ceiled
throughout; a part, where perhaps some delicate cargo was once stored, had been lined, in addition,
with inch boards; and between every beam there was a movable panel into the bilge. Any of these,
the bulkheads of the cabins, the very timbers of the hull itself, might be the place of hiding.
It was therefore necessary to demolish, as we proceeded, a great part of the ship's inner skin
and fittings, and to auscultate what remained, like a doctor sounding for a lung disease. Upon
the return, from any beam or bulkhead, of a doubtful sound, we must up axe and hew into the
timber: a violent and--from the amount of dry rot in the wreck--a mortifying exercise. Every
night saw a deeper inroad into the bones of the Flying Scud--more beams tapped and hewn in
splinters, more planking peeled away and tossed aside--and every night saw us as far as ever
from the end and object of our arduous devastation. In this perpetual disappointment, my courage
did not fail me, but my spirits dwindled; and Nares himself grew silent and morose. At night,
when supper was done, we passed an hour in the cabin, mostly without speech: I, sometimes dozing
over a book; Nares, sullenly but busily drilling sea-shells with the instrument called a Yankee
fiddle. A stranger might have supposed we were estranged; as a matter of fact, in this silent
comradeship of labour, our intimacy grew.

I had been struck, at the first beginning of our enterprise upon the wreck, to find the men
so ready at the captain's lightest word. I dare not say they liked, but I can never deny that
they admired him thoroughly. A mild word from his mouth was more valued than flattery, and
half a dollar from myself; if he relaxed at all from his habitual attitude of censure, smiling
alacrity surrounded him; and I was led to believe his theory of captainship, even if pushed
to excess, reposed upon some ground of reason. But even terror and admiration of the captain
failed us before the end. The men wearied of the hopeless, unremunerative quest and the long
strain of labour. They began to shirk and grumble. Retribution fell on them at once, and retribution
multiplied the grumblings. With every day it took harder driving to keep them to the daily
drudge; and we, in our narrow boundaries, were kept conscious every moment of the ill-will
of our assistants.

In spite of the best care, the object of our search was perfectly well known to all on board;
and there had leaked out, besides, some knowledge of those inconsistencies that had so greatly
amazed the captain and myself. I could overhear the men debate the character of Captain Trent,
and set forth competing theories of where the opium was stowed; and, as they seemed to have
been eavesdropping on ourselves, I thought little shame to prick up my ears when I had the
return chance of spying upon them. In this way I could diagnose their temper and judge how
far they were informed upon the mystery of the Flying Scud. It was after having thus overheard
some almost mutinous speeches that a fortunate idea crossed my mind. At night I matured it
in my bed, and the first thing the next morning broached it to the captain.

"Suppose I spirit up the hands a bit," I asked, "by the offer of a reward?"

"If you think you're getting your month's wages out of them the way it is, I don't," was his
reply. "However, they are all the men you've got, and you're the supercargo."

This, from a person of the captain's character, might be regarded as complete adhesion; and
the crew were accordingly called aft. Never had the captain worn a front more menacing. It
was supposed by all that some misdeed had been discovered, and some surprising punishment was
to be announced.

"See here, you!" he threw at them over his shoulder as he walked the deck. "Mr. Dodd here is
going to offer a reward to the first man who strikes the opium in that wreck. There's two ways
of making a donkey go--both good, I guess: the one's kicks and the other's carrots. Mr. Dodd's
going to try the carrots. Well, my sons"--and here he faced the men for the first time with
his hands behind him--"if that opium's not found in five days you can come to me for the kicks."

He nodded to the present narrator, who took up the tale. "Here is what I propose, men," said
I: "I put up one hundred and fifty dollars. If any man can lay hands on the stuff right away,
and off his own club, he shall have the hundred and fifty down. If any one can put us on the
scent of where to look, he shall have a hundred and twenty-five, and the balance shall be for
the lucky one who actually picks it up. We'll call it the Pinkerton Stakes, captain," I added,
with a smile.

"Call it the Grand Combination Sweep, then," cries he. "For I go you better.--Look here, men,
I make up this jack-pot to two hundred and fifty dollars, American gold coin."

"Thank you, Captain Nares," said I; "that was handsomely done."

"It was kindly meant," he returned.

The offer was not made in vain; the hands had scarce yet realised the magnitude of the reward,
they had scarce begun to buzz aloud in the extremity of hope and wonder, ere the Chinese cook
stepped forward with gracious gestures and explanatory smiles.

"Captain," he began, "I serv-um two year Melican navy; serv-um six year mail-boat steward.
Savvy plenty."

"Oho!" cried Nares, "you savvy plenty, do you? (Beggar's seen this trick in the mail-boat,
I guess.) Well, why you no savvy a little sooner, sonny?"

"I think bimeby make-um reward," replied the cook, with smiling dignity.

"Well, you can't say fairer than that," the captain admitted; "and now the reward's offered
you'll talk? Speak up then. Suppose you speak true you get reward. See?"

"I think long time," replied the Chinaman. "See plenty litty mat lice; too muchy plenty litty
mat lice; sixty ton litty mat lice. I think all-e-time perhaps plenty opium plenty litty mat lice."

"Well, Mr. Dodd, how does that strike you?" asked the captain. "He may be right, he may be
wrong. He's likely to be right, for if he isn't where can the stuff be? On the other hand,
if he's wrong we destroy a hundred and fifty tons of good rice for nothing. It's a point to
be considered."

"I don't hesitate," said I. "Let's get to the bottom of the thing. The rice is nothing; the
rice will neither make nor break us."

"That's how I expected you to see it," returned Nares. And we called the boat away and set
forth on our new quest.

The hold was now almost entirely emptied; the mats (of which there went forty to the short
ton) had been stacked on deck, and now crowded the ship's waist and forecastle. It was our
task to disembowel and explore six thousand individual mats, and incidentally to destroy a
hundred and fifty tons of valuable food. Nor were the circumstances of the day's business less
strange than its essential nature. Each man of us, armed with a great knife, attacked the pile
from his own quarter, slashed into the nearest mat, burrowed in it with his hands, and shed
forth the rice upon the deck, where it heaped up, overflowed, and was trodden down, poured
at last into the scuppers, and occasionally spouted from the vents. About the wreck thus transformed
into an overflowing granary, the sea-fowl swarmed in myriads and with surprising insolence.
The sight of so much food confounded them; they deafened us with their shrill tongues, swooped
in our midst, dashed in our faces, and snatched the grain from between our fingers. The men--their
hands bleeding from these assaults--turned savagely on the offensive, drove their knives into
the birds, drew them out crimsoned, and turned again to dig among the rice, unmindful of the
gawking creatures that struggled and died among their feet. We made a singular picture--the
hovering and diving birds; the bodies of the dead discolouring the rice with blood; the scuppers
vomiting breadstuff; the men, frenzied by the gold hunt, toiling, slaying, and shouting aloud;
over all the lofty intricacy of rigging and the radiant heaven of the Pacific. Every man there
toiled in the immediate hope of fifty dollars, and I of fifty thousand. Small wonder if we
waded callously in blood and food.

It was perhaps about ten in the forenoon when the scene was interrupted. Nares, who had just
ripped open a fresh mat, drew forth and slung at his feet, among the rice, a papered tin box.

"How's that?" he shouted.

A cry broke from all hands. The next moment, forgetting their own disappointment in that contagious
sentiment of success, they gave three cheers that scared the sea-birds; and the next they had
crowded round the captain, and were jostling together and groping with emulous hands in the
new-opened mat. Box after box rewarded them, six in all; wrapped, as I have said, in a paper
envelope, and the paper printed on in Chinese characters.

Nares turned to me and shook my hand. "I began to think we should never see this day," said
he. "I congratulate you, Mr. Dodd, on having pulled it through."

The captain's tones affected me profoundly; and when Johnson and the men pressed round me in
turn with congratulations, the tears came in my eyes.

"These are five-tael boxes, more than two pounds," said Nares, weighing one in his hand. "Say
two hundred and fifty dollars to the mat. Lay into it, boys! We'll make Mr. Dodd a millionaire
before dark."

It was strange to see with what a fury we fell to. The men had now nothing to expect; the mere
idea of great sums inspired them with disinterested ardour. Mats were slashed and disembowelled,
the rice flowed to our knees in the ship's waist, the sweat ran in our eyes and blinded us,
our arms ached to agony; and yet our fire abated not. Dinner came; we were too weary to eat,
too hoarse for conversation; and yet dinner was scarce done, before we were afoot again and
delving in the rice. Before nightfall not a mat was unexplored, and we were face to face with
the astonishing result.

For of all the inexplicable things in the story of the Flying Scud, here was the most inexplicable.
Out of the six thousand mats, only twenty were found to have been sugared; in each we found
the same amount, about twelve pounds of drug; making a grand total of two hundred and forty
pounds. By the last San Francisco quotation, opium was selling for a fraction over twenty dollars
a pound; but it had been known not long before to bring as much as forty in Honolulu, where
it was contraband.

Taking, then, this high Honolulu figure, the value of the opium on board the Flying Scud fell
considerably short of ten thousand dollars, while at the San Francisco rate it lacked a trifle
of five thousand. And fifty thousand was the price that Jim and I had paid for it. And Bellairs
had been eager to go higher! There is no language to express the stupor with which I contemplated
this result.

It may be argued we were not yet sure: there might be yet another cache; and you may be certain
in that hour of my distress the argument was not forgotten. There was never a ship more ardently
perquested; no stone was left unturned, and no expedient untried; day after day of growing
despair, we punched and dug in the brig's vitals, exciting the men with promises and presents;
evening after evening Nares and I sat face to face in the narrow cabin, racking our minds for
some neglected possibility of search. I could stake my salvation on the certainty of the result:
in all that ship there was nothing left of value but the timber and the copper nails. So that
our case was lamentably plain; we had paid fifty thousand dollars, borne the charges of the
schooner, and paid fancy interest on money; and if things went well with us, we might realise
fifteen per cent, of the first outlay. We were not merely bankrupt, we were comic bankrupts--a
fair butt for jeering in the streets. I hope I bore the blow with a good countenance; indeed,
my mind had long been quite made up, and since the day we found the opium I had known the result.
But the thought of Jim and Mamie ached in me like a physical pain, and I shrank from speech
and companionship.

I was in this frame of mind when the captain proposed that we should land upon the island.
I saw he had something to say, and only feared it might be consolation, for I could just bear
my grief, not bungling sympathy; and yet I had no choice but to accede to his proposal.

We walked a while along the beach in silence. The sun overhead reverberated rays of heat; the
staring sand, the glaring lagoon, tortured our eyes; and the birds and the boom of the far-away
breakers made a savage symphony.

"I don't require to tell you the game's up?" Nares asked.

"No," said I.

"I was thinking of getting to sea to-morrow," he pursued.

"The best thing you can do," said I.

"Shall we say Honolulu?" he inquired.

"O, yes; let's stick to the programme," I cried. "Honolulu be it!"

There was another silence, and then Nares cleared his throat.

"We've been pretty good friends, you and me, Mr. Dodd," he resumed. "We've been going through
the kind of thing that tries a man. We've had the hardest kind of work, we've been badly backed,
and now we're badly beaten. And we've fetched through without a word of disagreement. I don't
say this to praise myself: it's my trade; it's what I'm paid for, and trained for, and brought
up to. But it was another thing for you; it was all new to you; and it did me good to see you
stand right up to it and swing right into it--day in, day out. And then see how you've taken
this disappointment, when everybody knows you must have been tautened up to shying-point! I
wish you'd let me tell you, Mr. Dodd, that you've stood out mighty manly and handsomely in
all this business, and made every one like you and admire you. And I wish you'd let me tell
you, besides, that I've taken this wreck business as much to heart as you have; something kind
of rises in my throat when I think we're beaten; and if I thought waiting would do it, I would
stick on this reef until we starved."

I tried in vain to thank him for these generous words, but he was beforehand with me in a moment.

"I didn't bring you ashore to sound my praises," he interrupted. "We understand one another
now, that's all; and I guess you can trust me. What I wished to speak about is more important,
and it's got to be faced. What are we to do about the Flying Scud and the dime novel?"

"I really have thought nothing about that," I replied; "but I expect I mean to get at the bottom
of it, and if the bogus Captain Trent is to be found on the earth's surface, I guess I mean
to find him."

"All you've got to do is talk," said Nares; "you can make the biggest kind of boom; it isn't
often the reporters have a chance at such a yarn as this; and I can tell you how it will go.
It will go by telegraph, Mr. Dodd; it'll be telegraphed by the column, and headlined, and frothed
up, and denied by authority, and it'll hit bogus Captain Trent in a Mexican bar-room, and knock
over bogus Goddedaal in a slum somewhere up the Baltic, and bowl down Hardy and Brown in sailors'
music-halls round Greenock. O, there's no doubt you can have a regular domestic Judgment Day.
The only point is whether you deliberately want to."

"Well," said I, "I deliberately don't want one thing: I deliberately don't want to make a public
exhibition of myself and Pinkerton: so moral--smuggling opium; such damned fools--paying fifty
thousand for a 'dead horse'!"

"No doubt it might damage you in a business sense," the captain agreed; "and I'm pleased you
take that view, for I've turned kind of soft upon the job. There's been some crookedness about,
no doubt of it; but, law bless you! if we dropped upon the troupe, all the premier artists
would slip right out with the boodle in their grip-sacks, and you'd only collar a lot of old
mutton-headed shell-backs that didn't know the back of the business from the front. I don't
take much stock in mercantile Jack, you know that, but, poor devil, he's got to go where he's
told; and if you make trouble, ten to one it'll make you sick to see the innocents who have
to stand the racket. It would be different if we understood the operation; but we don't, you
see: there's a lot of queer corners in life, and my vote is to let the blame' thing lie."

"You speak as if we had that in our power," I objected.

"And so we have," said he.

"What about the men?" I asked. "They know too much by half, and you can't keep them from talking."

"Can't I?" returned Nares. "I bet a boarding-master can! They can be all half-seas-over when
they get ashore, blind drunk by dark, and cruising out of the Golden Gate in different deep-sea
ships by the next morning. Can't keep them from talking, can't I? Well, I can make 'em talk
separate, leastways. If a whole crew came talking, parties would listen; but if it's only one
lone old shell-back, it's the usual yarn. And at least, they needn't talk before six months,
or--if we have luck, and there's a whaler handy--three years. And by that time, Mr. Dodd, it's
ancient history."

"That's what they call Shanghaiing, isn't it?" I asked. "I thought it belonged to the dime novel."

"O, dime novels are right enough," returned the captain. "Nothing wrong with the dime novel,
only that things happen thicker than they do in life, and the practical seamanship is off colour."

"So we can keep the business to ourselves," I mused.

"There's one other person that might blab," said the captain. "Though I don't believe she has
anything left to tell."

"And who is she?" I asked.

"The old girl there," he answered, pointing to the wreck; "I know there's nothing in her; but
somehow I'm afraid of some one else--it's the last thing you'd expect, so it's just the first
that'll happen--some one dropping into this God-forgotten island where nobody drops in, waltzing
into that wreck that we've grown old with searching, stooping straight down, and picking right
up the very thing that tells the story. What's that to me? you may ask, and why am I gone Soft
Tommy on this Museum of Crooks? They've smashed up you and Mr. Pinkerton; they've turned my
hair grey with conundrums they've been up to larks, no doubt; and that's all I know of them--you
say. Well, and that's just where it is. I don't know enough; I don't know what's uppermost
it's just such a lot of miscellaneous eventualities as I don't care to go stirring up; and
I ask you to let me deal with the old girl after a patent of my own."

"Certainly--what you please," said I, scarce with attention, for a new thought now occupied
my brain. "Captain," I broke out, "you are wrong: we cannot hush this up. There is one thing
you have forgotten."

"What is that?" he asked.

"A bogus Captain Trent, a bogus Goddedaal, a whole bogus crew, have all started home," said
I. "If we are right, not one of them will reach his journey's end. And do you mean to say that
such a circumstance as that can pass without remark?"

"Sailors," said the captain, "only sailors! If they were all bound for one place in a body,
I don't say so; but they're all going separate--to Hull, to Sweden, to the Clyde, to the Thames.
Well, at each place, what is it? Nothing new. Only one sailor-man missing: got drunk, or got
drowned, or got left--the proper sailor's end."

Something bitter in the thought and in the speaker's tones struck me hard. "Here is one that
has got left!" I cried, getting sharply to my feet, for we had been some time seated. "I wish
it were the other. I don't--don't relish going home to Jim with this!"

"See here," said Nares, with ready tact, "I must be getting aboard. Johnson's in the brig annexing
chandlery and canvas, and there's some things in the Norah that want fixing against we go to
sea. Would you like to be left here in the chicken-ranch? I'll send for you to supper."

I embraced the proposal with delight. Solitude, in my frame of mind, was not too dearly purchased
at the risk of sunstroke or sand-blindness; and soon I was alone on the ill-omened islet. I
should find it hard to tell of what I thought--of Jim, of Mamie, of our lost fortune, of my
lost hopes, of the doom before me: to turn to some mechanical occupation in some subaltern
rank, and to toil there, unremarked and unamused, until the hour of the last deliverance. I
was, at least, so sunk in sadness that I scarce remarked where I was going; and chance (or
some finer sense that lives in us, and only guides us when the mind is in abeyance) conducted
my steps into a quarter of the island where the birds were few. By some devious route, which
I was unable to retrace for my return, I was thus able to mount, without interruption, to the
highest point of land. And here I was recalled to consciousness by a last discovery.

The spot on which I stood was level, and commanded a wide view of the lagoon, the bounding
reef, the round horizon. Nearer hand I saw the sister islet, the wreck, the Norah Creina, and
the Norah's boat already moving shoreward. For the sun was now low, flaming on the sea's verge;
and the galley chimney smoked on board the schooner.

It thus befell that though my discovery was both affecting and suggestive, I had no leisure
to examine further. What I saw was the blackened embers of fire of wreck. By all the signs,
it must have blazed to a good height and burned for days; from the scantling of a spar that
lay upon the margin only half consumed, it must have been the work of more than one; and I
received at once the image of a forlorn troop of castaways, houseless in that lost corner of
the earth, and feeding there their fire of signal. The next moment a hail reached me from the
boat; and bursting through the bushes and the rising sea-fowl, I said farewell (I trust for
ever) to that desert isle.

CHAPTER XVI

IN WHICH I TURN SMUGGLER, AND THE CAPTAIN CASUIST

The last night at Midway I had little sleep; the next morning, after the sun was risen, and
the clatter of departure had begun to reign on deck, I lay a long while dozing; and when at
last I stepped from the companion, the schooner was already leaping through the pass into the
open sea. Close on her board, the huge scroll of a breaker unfurled itself along the reef with
a prodigious clamour; and behind I saw the wreck vomiting into the morning air a coil of smoke.
The wreaths already blew out far to leeward, flames already glittered in the cabin skylight,
and the sea-fowl were scattered in surprise as wide as the lagoon. As we drew farther off,
the conflagration of the Flying Scud flamed higher; and long after we had dropped all signs
of Midway Island, the smoke still hung in the horizon like that of a distant steamer. With
the fading out of that last vestige, the Norah Creina passed again into the empty world of
cloud and water by which she had approached; and the next features that appeared, eleven days
later, to break the line of sky, were the arid mountains of Oahu.

It has often since been a comfortable thought to me that we had thus destroyed the tell-tale
remnants of the Flying Scud; and often a strange one that my last sight and reminiscence of
that fatal ship should be a pillar of smoke on the horizon. To so many others besides myself
the same appearance had played a part in the various stages of that business; luring some to
what they little imagined, filling some with unimaginable terrors. But ours was the last smoke
raised in the story; and with its dying away the secret of the Flying Scud became a private
property.

It was by the first light of dawn that we saw, close on board, the metropolitan island of Hawaii.
We held along the coast, as near as we could venture, with a fresh breeze and under an unclouded
heaven; beholding, as we went, the arid mountain sides and scrubby cocoa-palms of that somewhat
melancholy archipelago. About four of the afternoon we turned Waimanolo Point, the westerly
headland of the great bight of Honolulu; showed ourselves for twenty minutes in full view,
and then fell again to leeward, and put in the rest of daylight, plying under shortened sail
under the lee of Waimanolo.

A little after dark we beat once more about the point, and crept cautiously toward the mouth
of the Pearl Lochs, where Jim and I had arranged I was to meet the smugglers. The night was
happily obscure, the water smooth. We showed, according to instructions, no light on deck;
only a red lantern dropped from either cathead to within a couple of feet of the water. A look-out
was stationed on the bowsprit end, another in the cross-trees; and the whole ship's company
crowded forward, scouting for enemies or friends. It was now the crucial moment of our enterprise;
we were now risking liberty and credit, and that for a sum so small to a man in my bankrupt
situation, that I could have laughed aloud in bitterness. But the piece had been arranged,
and we must play it to the finish.

For some while we saw nothing but the dark mountain outline of the island, the torches of native
fishermen glittering here and there along the foreshore, and right in the midst, that cluster
of brave lights with which the town of Honolulu advertises itself to the seaward. Presently
a ruddy star appeared inshore of us, and seemed to draw near unsteadily. This was the anticipated
signal; and we made haste to show the countersign, lowering a white light from the quarter,
extinguishing the two others, and laying the schooner incontinently to. The star approached
slowly; the sounds of oars and of men's speech came to us across the water; and then a voice
hailed us--

"Is that Mr. Dodd?"

"Yes," I returned. "Is Jim Pinkerton there?"

"No, sir," replied the voice. "But there's one of his crowd here, name of Speedy."

"I'm here, Mr. Dodd," added Speedy himself. "I have letters for you."

"All right," I replied. "Come aboard, gentlemen, and let me see my mail."

A whaleboat accordingly ranged alongside, and three men boarded us: my old San Francisco friend,
the stock-gambler Speedy, a little wizened person of the name of Sharpe, and a big, flourishing,
dissipated-looking man called Fowler. The two last (I learned afterward) were frequent partners;
Sharpe supplied the capital, and Fowler, who was quite a character in the islands, and occupied
a considerable station, brought activity, daring, and a private influence, highly necessary
in the case. Both seemed to approach the business with a keen sense of romance; and I believe
this was the chief attraction, at least with Fowler--for whom I early conceived a sentiment
of liking. But in that first moment I had something else to think of than to judge my new acquaintances
and before Speedy had fished out the letters, the full extent of our misfortune was revealed.

"We've rather bad news for you, Mr. Dodd," said Fowler. "Your firm's gone up."

"Already?" I exclaimed.

"Well, it was thought rather a wonder Pinkerton held on as long as he did," was the reply.
"The wreck deal was too big for your credit; you were doing a big business, no doubt, but you
were doing it on precious little capital, and when the strain came, you were bound to go. Pinkerton's
through all right: seven cents dividend, some remarks made, but nothing to hurt; the press
let you down easy--I guess Jim had relations there. The only trouble is, that all this Flying
Scud affair got in the papers with the rest; everybody's wide awake in Honolulu, and the sooner
we get the stuff in and the dollars out, the better for all concerned."

"Gentlemen," said I, "you must excuse me. My friend, the captain here, will drink a glass of
champagne with you to give you patience; but as for myself, I am unfit even for ordinary conversation
till I have read these letters."

They demurred a little, and indeed the danger of delay seemed obvious; but the sight of my
distress, which I was unable entirely to control, appealed strongly to their good-nature, and
I was suffered at last to get by myself on deck, where, by the light of a lantern smuggled
under shelter of the low rail, I read the following wretched correspondence:--

   "MY DEAR LOUDON," ran the first, "this will be handed you by your
   friend Speedy of the Catamount. His sterling character and loyal
   devotion to yourself pointed him out as the best man for our purposes
   in Honolulu--the parties on the spot being difficult to manipulate. A
   man called Billy Fowler (you must have heard of Billy) is the boss;
   he is in politics some, and squares the officers. I have hard times
   before me in the city, but I feel as bright as a dollar and as strong
   as John L. Sullivan. What with Mamie here, and my partner speeding
   over the seas, and the bonanza in the wreck, I feel like I could
   juggle with the Pyramids of Egypt, same as conjurers do with
   aluminium balls. My earnest prayers follow you, Loudon, that you may
   feel the way I do--just inspired! My feet don't touch the ground; I
   kind of swim. Mamie is like Moses and Aaron that held up the other
   individual's arms. She carries me along like a horse and buggy. I am
   beating the record.

     "Your true partner,

     "J. PINKERTON."

Number two was in a different style:--

   "MY DEAREST LOUDON,--How am I to prepare you for this dire
   intelligence? O, dear me, it will strike you to the earth. The flat
   has gone forth; our firm went bust at a quarter before twelve. It
   was a bill of Bradley's (for two hundred dollars) that brought these
   vast operations to a close, and evolved liabilities of upwards of two
   hundred and fifty thousand. O, the shame and pity of it, and you but
   three weeks gone! Loudon, don't blame your partner; if human hands
   and brains could have sufficed I would have held the thing together.
   But it just slowly crumbled; Bradley was the last kick, but the
   blamed business just melted. I give the liabilities--it's supposed
   they're all in--for the cowards were waiting, and the claims were
   filed like taking tickets to hear Patti. I don't quite have the hang
   of the assets yet, our interests were so extended; but I am at it day
   and night, and I guess will make a creditable dividend. If the wreck
   pans out only half the way it ought we'll turn the laugh still. I am
   as full of grit and work as ever, and just tower above our troubles.
   Mamie is a host in herself. Somehow I feel like it was only me that
   had gone bust, and you and she soared clear of it. Hurry up. That's
   all you have to do.

     "Yours ever,

     "J. PINKERTON."

The third was yet more altered:--

   "MY POOR LOUDON," it began, "I labour far into the night getting our
   affairs in order; you could not believe their vastness and
   complexity. Douglas B. Longhurst said humorously that the receiver's
   work would be cut out for him. I cannot deny that some of them have a
   speculative look. God forbid a sensitive, refined spirit like yours
   should ever come face to face with a Commissioner in Bankruptcy;
   these men get all the sweetness knocked right out of them. But I
   could bear up better if it weren't for press comments. Often and
   often, Loudon, I recall to mind your most legitimate critiques of the
   press system. They published an interview with me, not the least like
   what I said, and with jeering comments; it would make your blood
   boil, it was literally inhumane; wouldn't have written it about a
   yellow dog that was in trouble like what I am. Mamie just winced, the
   first time she has turned a hair right through the whole catastrophe.
   How wonderfully true was what you said long ago in Paris about
   touching on people's personal appearance! The fellow said ----" [And
   then these words had been scored through and my distressed friend
   turned to another subject.] "I cannot bear to dwell upon our assets.
   They simply don't show up. Even Thirteen Star, as sound a line as
   can be produced upon this coast, goes begging. The wreck has thrown a
   blight on all we ever touched. And where's the use? God never made a
   wreck big enough to fill our deficit I am haunted by the thought that
   you may blame me; I know how I despised your remonstrances. O,
   Loudon, don't be hard on your miserable partner. The funny dog
   business is what kills. I fear your stern rectitude of mind like the
   eye of God. I cannot think but what some of my books seem mixed up;
   otherwise, I don't seem to see my way as plain as I could wish to. Or
   else my brain is gone soft. Loudon, if there should be any
   unpleasantness you can trust me to do the right thing and keep you
   clear. I've been telling them already how you had no business grip
   and never saw the books. O, I trust I have done right in this I I
   knew it was a liberty; I know you may justly complain, but it was
   some things that were said. And mind you, all legitimate business!
   Not even your shrinking sensitiveness could find fault with the first
   look of one of them if they had panned out right. And you know the
   Flying Scud was the biggest gamble of the crowd, and that was your
   own idea. Mamie says she never could bear to look you in the face if
   that idea had been mine, she is so conscientious!

     "Your broken-hearted

     "JIM."

The last began without formality:--

