WANDERINGS IN SOUTH AMERICA

By CHARLES WATERTON

PREFACE TO THE FIRST EDITION

I offer this book of "Wanderings" with a hesitating hand. It has little merit, and must make
its way through the world as well as it can. It will receive many a jostle as it goes along,
and perhaps is destined to add one more to the number of slain in the field of modern criticism.
But if it fall, it may still, in death, be useful to me; for should some accidental rover take
it up and, in turning over its pages, imbibe the idea of going out to explore Guiana in order
to give the world an enlarged description of that noble country, I shall say, "fortem ad fortia
misi," and demand the armour; that is, I shall lay claim to a certain portion of the honours
he will receive, upon the plea that I was the first mover of his discoveries; for, as Ulysses
sent Achilles to Troy, so I sent him to Guiana. I intended to have written much more at length;
but days and months and years have passed away, and nothing has been done. Thinking it very
probable that I shall never have patience enough to sit down and write a full account of all
I saw and examined in those remote wilds, I give up the intention of doing so, and send forth
this account of my "Wanderings" just as it was written at the time.

If critics are displeased with it in its present form, I beg to observe that it is not totally
devoid of interest, and that it contains something useful. Several of the unfortunate gentlemen
who went out to explore the Congo were thankful for the instructions they found in it; and
Sir Joseph Banks, on sending back the journal, said in his letter: "I return your journal with
abundant thanks for the very instructive lesson you have favoured us with this morning, which
far excelled, in real utility, everything I have hitherto seen." And in another letter he says:
"I hear with particular pleasure your intention of resuming your interesting travels, to which
natural history has already been so much indebted." And again: "I am sorry you did not deposit
some part of your last harvest of birds in the British Museum, that your name might become
familiar to naturalists and your unrivalled skill in preserving birds be made known to the
public." And again: "You certainly have talents to set forth a book which will improve and
extend materially the bounds of natural science."

Sir Joseph never read the third adventure. Whilst I was engaged in it, death robbed England
of one of her most valuable subjects and deprived the Royal Society of its brightest ornament.

CONTENTS

INTRODUCTION

PREFACE TO THE FIRST EDITION

FIRST JOURNEY
    REMARKS

SECOND JOURNEY

THIRD JOURNEY

FOURTH JOURNEY

ON PRESERVING BIRDS FOR CABINETS OF NATURAL HISTORY

GLOSSARY

INDEX

WANDERINGS IN SOUTH AMERICA

FIRST JOURNEY

  ----nec herba, nec latens in asperis
  Radix fefellit me locis.

In the month of April 1812 I left the town of Stabroek to travel through the wilds of Demerara
and Essequibo, a part of ci-devant Dutch Guiana, in South America.

The chief objects in view were to collect a quantity of the strongest wourali poison and to
reach the inland frontier-fort of Portuguese Guiana.

It would be a tedious journey for him who wishes to travel through these wilds to set out from
Stabroek on foot. The sun would exhaust him in his attempts to wade through the swamps, and
the mosquitos at night would deprive him of every hour of sleep.

The road for horses runs parallel to the river, but it extends a very little way, and even
ends before the cultivation of the plantations ceases.

The only mode then that remains is to proceed by water; and when you come to the high-lands,
you may make your way through the forest on foot or continue your route on the river.

After passing the third island in the River Demerara there are few plantations to be seen,
and those not joining on to one another, but separated by large tracts of wood.

The Loo is the last where the sugar-cane is growing. The greater part of its negroes have just
been ordered to another estate, and ere a few months shall have elapsed all signs of cultivation
will be lost in underwood.

Higher up stand the sugar-works of Amelia's Waard, solitary and abandoned; and after passing
these there is not a ruin to inform the traveller that either coffee or sugar have ever been
cultivated.

From Amelia's Waard an unbroken range of forest covers each bank of the river, saving here
and there where a hut discovers itself, inhabited by free people of colour, with a rood or
two of bared ground about it; or where the wood-cutter has erected himself a dwelling and cleared
a few acres for pasturage. Sometimes you see level ground on each side of you for two or three
hours at a stretch; at other times a gently sloping hill presents itself; and often, on turning
a point, the eye is pleased with the contrast of an almost perpendicular height jutting into
the water. The trees put you in mind of an eternal spring, with summer and autumn kindly blended
into it.

Here you may see a sloping extent of noble trees whose foliage displays a charming variety
of every shade, from the lightest to the darkest green and purple. The tops of some are crowned
with bloom of the loveliest hue, while the boughs of others bend with a profusion of seeds
and fruits.

Those whose heads have been bared by time or blasted by the thunderstorm strike the eye, as
a mournful sound does the ear in music, and seem to beckon to the sentimental traveller to
stop a moment or two and see that the forests which surround him, like men and kingdoms, have
their periods of misfortune and decay.

The first rocks of any considerable size that are observed on the side of the river are at
a place called Saba, from the Indian word which means a stone. They appear sloping down to
the water's edge, not shelvy, but smooth, and their exuberances rounded off and, in some places,
deeply furrowed, as though they had been worn with continual floods of water.

There are patches of soil up and down, and the huge stones amongst them produce a pleasing
and novel effect. You see a few coffee-trees of a fine luxuriant growth, and nearly on the
top of Saba stands the house of the post-holder.

He is appointed by Government to give in his report to the protector of the Indians of what
is going on amongst them and to prevent suspicious people from passing up the river.

When the Indians assemble here, the stranger may have an opportunity of seeing the aborigines
dancing to the sound of their country music and painted in their native style. They will shoot
their arrows for him with an unerring aim and send the poisoned dart, from the blow-pipe, true
to its destination: and here he may often view all the different shades, from the red savage
to the white man; and from the white man to the sootiest son of Africa.

Beyond this post there are no more habitations of white men or free people of colour.

In a country so extensively covered with wood as this is, having every advantage that a tropical
sun and the richest mould, in many places, can give to vegetation, it is natural to look for
trees of very large dimensions. But it is rare to meet with them above six yards in circumference.
If larger have ever existed they have fallen a sacrifice either to the axe or to fire.

If, however, they disappoint you in size, they make ample amends in height. Heedless, and bankrupt
in all curiosity, must he be who can journey on without stopping to take a view of the towering
mora. Its topmost branch, when naked with age or dried by accident, is the favourite resort
of the toucan.