    When he remembers that he has been the beast of burden of
    southern civilization and the foundation of its luxuriant
    ease, when he rehearses to his children that he was the
    South's sole dependence when his master was away repelling
    hostile armies, and how he worked by day and guarded his
    unprotected mistress and her children at night, or accompanied
    his master to the swamps of Virginia and the Carolinas and
    bound up his wounds or brought his maimed or dead body home on
    his shoulders, these children can not understand the attitude
    of the South toward them. They do not understand why they
    have not been educated to efficiency and employed to the best
    interest of the South. They do not understand why they have
    not been given better living conditions, a more equitable
    division of funds appropriated for the education of the youth,
    nor provisions made for their higher or professional training,
    or why so much prejudice is engendered in the practice
    of these professions among their own people. They do not
    understand why they have been made to toil at starvation wages
    and to pay heavy fines and suffer long prison sentences for
    stealing food and clothing. They do not understand why no
    estimate is placed upon negro virtue and the full rights of
    citizenship are denied to negroes of education, character and
    worth. If some mysterious Providence has ordained that
    they support themselves and employers by farming, they do not
    understand why they are deprived of agricultural schools.
    They do not see why mere prejudice would prevent them from
    obtaining a square deal when contending for the possessions
    of life, liberty and property. They do not understand why they
    are not protected from petty peace officers in search of
    fees and from mobs while in the hands of officers of the law.
    Finally, they do not understand why there is so little genuine
    sympathy and brotherhood between them and the only people they
    know--the people whose language and customs they use, under
    whose laws they live, whose Bible they read, whose God they
    serve. These thoughts possessed the negroes' mind when, twelve
    months ago, the boll weevil and rains destroyed the crops in
    the South and the European war was calling foreigners from
    field and factory in the North.[30]

One should bear in mind that the two generations of negroes living in the South are affected
differently by the measures of control of the whites, and in many cases respond differently
to treatment received. The older generation of whites and blacks avoided much friction by a
sort of mutual understanding. The children of colored and white parents come less frequently
into friendly contact and find it difficult to live together on the terms accepted by their
fathers. Negro parents appreciate this situation but, although admitting that they can tolerate
the position to which they are assigned, they do not welcome such an arrangement for their
children. For this reason they are not reluctant to send their sons away from home. Should
the children remain there, they live in a state of anxiety for their safety. They would not
have them grow up as they, encompassed by restraints, and the young men themselves appear to
entertain toward the prevailing system a more aggressive hostility.

A woman of color in Greenville, Mississippi, for example, had a son in a northern State and
was afraid to invite him home to pay a visit because, as she stated, "for him to accept the
same abuses to which we, his parents, are accustomed, would make him much less than the man
we would have him be." Another negro, a physician, the "Nestor" of his profession, having practiced
in his State over thirty-five years, said:

    Sir, I can't expect my son to accept the treatment under which
    I have been brought up. My length of residence here and
    the number of friends whom I know of the older and more
    aristocratic type of whites will protect me but as for him,
    there is no friendship. Now, as for me, there is no reason why
    I should leave. I am making as much money as I could anywhere
    else and all of the white people respect me. But I am just one
    out of a thousand. The younger men have neither my contact nor
    influence.

A lawyer of remarkable talent formerly of Mississippi, now living with his children in Chicago,
who had felt keenly this humiliation and recognized it as one of the motives behind his change
of residence, thus stated the situation:

    One peculiar phase of the white southern prejudice is that
    no matter how well liked or popular a colored man be in any
    community, his son does not share that popularity unless he
    enters a field of endeavor distinctly lower in the scale than
    that occupied by his parent. My experience goes both ways on
    this subject. My stepfather was a dearly beloved colored man
    of the old school, but when he sent me off to Oberlin College
    I returned to find that the community in which I had been
    beloved as a boy in attendance at the rude country school
    looked at me askance. It took twenty years to overcome the
    handicap of attempting to occupy a higher sphere than that
    to which the community thought it right to assign me. My
    experiences were repeated by my son. He was a well liked boy
    by the best people in a city of about twenty-five thousand,
    because he was my son and was polite and agreeable. When he
    went to a nearby Mississippi college and worked in his summer
    vacations in a local industrial plant, they still thought well
    of him, but when it was learned that he was being graduated
    at Oberlin College, and his picture appeared in a college year
    book, among others, my intimate white friends wanted to know
    the necessity for so much education and, with a shrug of
    the shoulder, they let all mention of him drop, as if he had
    offended the most sacred laws of the community. This spirit
    appeared so marked that I did not have him come back to visit
    his mother and me during the summer vacation. I have seen the
    same spirit in many instances. No man can explain why it is,
    but it is so.[31]

[Footnote 17: New York Times, September 5, 9, 28, 1916.]

[Footnote 18: Ibid., October 18, 28; November 5, 7, 12, 15; December 4, 9, 1916.]

[Footnote 19: Work, Report on Negro Migration from Alabama.]

[Footnote 20: Work and Johnson, Report on the Migration during the World War.]

[Footnote 21: Attractive advertisements appeared in negro newspapers with wide circulation
in the South. These are from the Chicago Defender.

"Wanted--10 molders. Must be experienced. $4.50 to $5.50 per day. Write B.F.R. Defender Office."

"Wanted--25 girls for dishwashing. Salary $7 a week and board. John R. Thompson, Restaurant,
314 South State Street. Call between 7 and 8 a.m. Ask for Mr. Brown."

"Wanted--25 young men as bus boys and porters.

"Molders wanted. Good pay, good working conditions. Firms supply cottages for married men.
Apply T.L. Jefferson, 3439 State Street.

"Ten families and 50 men wanted at once for permanent work in the Connecticut tobacco fields.
Good wages. Inquire National League on Urban Conditions among Negroes, 2303 Seventh Avenue,
New York City, New York."

"Molders wanted. A large manufacturing concern, ninety miles from Chicago, is in need of experienced
molders. Wages from $3 to $5.50. Extra for overtime. Transportation from Chicago only. Apply
Chicago League on Urban Conditions among Negroes. T. Arnold Hill, Executive Secretary, 3719
State Street, Chicago."

"Laborers wanted for foundry, warehouse and yard work. Excellent opportunity to learn trades,
paying good money. Start $2.50--$2.75 per day. Extra for overtime. Transportation advanced
from Chicago only. Apply Chicago League on Urban Conditions among Negroes, 3719 South State
Street. Chicago."

"Experienced machinists, foundrymen, pattern makers wanted, for permanent work in Massachusetts.
Apply National League on Urban Conditions among Negroes, 2303 7th Ave., New York City."

"3,000 laborers to work on railroad. Factory hires all race help. More positions open than
men for them."

"Men wanted at once. Good steady employment for colored. Thirty and 39-1/2 cents per hour.
Weekly payments. Good warm sanitary quarters free. Best commissary privileges. Towns of Newark
and Jersey City. Fifteen minutes by car line offer cheap and suitable homes for men with families.
For out of town parties of ten or more cheap transportation will be arranged. Only reliable
men who stay on their job are wanted. Apply or write Butterworth Judson Corporation, Box 273,
Newark, New Jersey, or Daniel T. Brantley, 315 West 119th Street, New York City."

"$3.60 per day can be made in a steel foundry in Minnesota, by strong, healthy, steady men.
Open only to men living in Chicago. Apply in person. There are seven white and two colored
schools. The average salaries paid to white assistant teachers is $75 per month. The average
salaries paid to colored assistant teachers is $32.50 per month. The average number of pupils
taught by white is 30 and the average number taught by colored is 100.

In the county there are no agricultural high schools or in fact high schools of any kind. The
whites in the same county have an agricultural high school of "magnificent proportions" and
"excellent facilities," a literary high school and about ten consolidated schools.

Negroes complain that the authorities are building white schools in communities where the negro
population is five times as great. When they first sought to establish these consolidated schools,
there was a provision that every one must pay taxes to support them. Negroes who were required
to pay large taxes refused because they were denied the benefits of the schools. A law was
passed with the provision that the majority of qualified electors in a county supervisor's
district might secure one of these schools on petition to the Board of Supervisors and with
the understanding that they would pay taxes. But negroes are not qualified electors and consequently
have no schools.

In Liberty Grove the white school goes to the twelfth grade, with courses also in music. Automobiles
bring the children to school and carry them back. The negro school in the same community has
only one teacher getting $25 per month and teaching over 200 children. There are two large
negro denominational schools, Jackson College and Campbell College which serve to supplement
the public schools provided by the city.]

[Footnote 23: Jones, Negro Education, vol. II, pp. 14, 15, Bulletin, 1916, No. 30 of the United
States Bureau of Education.]

[Footnote 24: Work and Johnson, Report on the Migration during the World War.]

[Footnote 25: Montgomery Advertiser.]

[Footnote 26: Annual Report of the Prison Inspector of Alabama, 1914.]

[Footnote 27: Report of the Sheriff of Jefferson County, Alabama, 1917.]

[Footnote 28: Work and Johnson, Report on the Migration during the World War.]

[Footnote 29: Mr. Charles S. Johnson reports the following from Mississippi: "The police of
most of the cities are rough and indiscriminate in their treatment of negroes. At the depot
during the summer, on several occasions, negro porters were severely beaten by policemen for
trivial reasons. This, it was said, started a stream of young men that cleaned the town of porters.

"Fee constables made their living from arresting negroes, indiscriminately, on trivial charges.
A white man, to whom a prominent negro physician had gone for advice on a case concerning his
arrest on a charge of having no lights on his automobile, said, 'If I were a negro, I would
rather appear before a Russian court than come before a court here for trial.'"]

[Footnote 30: Work and Johnson, Report on the Migration during the World War.]

[Footnote 31: Work and Johnson, Report on the Migration during the World War.]

CHAPTER III

STIMULATION OF THE MOVEMENT

It is not surprising that the exodus grew so contagious when viewed in the light of the numerous
factors which played a part in influencing its extension. Considering the temper of the South
and its attitude toward any attempt to reduce its labor supply, it is readily apparent that
leaders who openly encouraged the exodus would be in personal danger. There were, of course,
some few who did venture to voice their belief in it, but they were in most cases speedily
silenced. A Methodist minister was sent to jail because he was said to have been enticing laborers
to go north and work for a New York firm, which would give employment to fifty of his people.
The tactics adopted by influential persons who favored the movement, therefore, were of necessity
covert and very much guarded.

One of the chief stimuli was discussion. The very fact that negroes were leaving in large numbers
was a disturbing factor. The talk in the barber shops and grocery stores where men were wont
to assemble soon began to take the form of reasons for leaving. There it was the custom to
review all the instances of mistreatment and injustice which fell to the lot of the negro in
the South. It was here also that letters from the North were read and fresh news on the exodus
was first given out. In Hattiesburg, Mississippi, it was stated that for a while there was
no subject of discussion but the migration. "The packing houses in Chicago for a while seemed
to be everything," said one negro. "You could not rest in your bed at night for Chicago." Chicago
came to be so common a word that they began to call it "Chi." Men went down to talk with the
Chicago porters on the Gulf and Ship Island Railroad which ran through the town. They asked
questions about the weather in Chicago. The report was that it was the same as in Hattiesburg.[32]

In every circle the advisability of leaving was debated. In the churches the pastors, seeing
their flocks leaving, at first attempted to dissuade them. The people refused to come to church.
In the church meetings there were verbal clashes on the matter of the attitude toward the migration.
Some few had been careful enough to go north and investigate for themselves and friends. A
man learned of the North through a friend whose relatives wrote him from that section. He,
thereupon, decided to pay a visit of two weeks, going in August. The attitude of the North
overwhelmed him. At Fulton, Kentucky, while he was on the train a white man was sitting in
front of him. He wanted to ask him a question but hesitated fearing that he would be rebuffed.
He finally addressed the stranger, who answered him courteously and kindly, calling his attention
to other points of interest in the North. At Gary, Indiana, he met a gentleman who said he
had been mayor of Gary for seven years. He described the Gary school system and promised him
an education for his children. He was assured employment at $4 a day for eight hours' work.[33]

A still more powerful, though insidious factor, was the work of public speakers who hid their
intentions behind their unique method of presentation. In a lecture on the question of migration
a speaker, who is a widely known character, made these remarks:

    So many of my folks are leaving that I thought I'd go up and
    see whether or not they had made a mistake. I found thousands
    of old friends up there making more money than they'd ever
    made in their lives. I said to one woman in Chicago, "Well,
    Sister ----, I see you're here." "Yes, Brother ----, I'm here,
    thank the Lord." "Do you find it any colder up here than it
    was in Mississippi?" "Did I understand you correctly to say
    cold? Honey, I mean it's cold. It is some cold." "But you
    expect to return, don't you?" "Don't play with me, chile. What
    am I going to return for? I should say not. Up here you see
    when I come out on the street I walk on nice smooth pavements.
    Down home I got to walk home through the mud. Up here at
    nights it don't matter much about coming home from church.
    Down home on my street there ain't a single lamp post. And
    say, honey, I got a bath tub!"[34]

He related the instance of his visit to an automobile plant where he was met at the door by
a "stalwart, handsome, six-footer as black as midnight." He asked his companion the name of
this "potentate." He was told that this man was an experienced machinist. Every car that passed
out of that plant must have his O.K. He added further that his salary was something like $100
a week and that the incident showed the unlimited chance for expansion in the North. When he
began to enumerate some of the positions which "men of the race" were holding, the audience
became enthusiastic beyond control. One man in the audience, who had been to Detroit, could
restrain himself no longer and stood up to inform the audience that there were also colored
street car conductors and motormen and that he had seen them with his own eyes. The speaker
paid no attention to this interruption and the audience appeared not to notice it, but began
to exchange reports among themselves. The speaker added that he had found negroes in the North,
well dressed and looking like men--for the first time in their lives--men who were simply "bums"
at home. In excusing the indisposition of some negroes toward work, he said, "How in the world
can you expect a man to work faithfully all day long for fifty cents?"[35]

Among the important stimuli were the rumors in circulation. When a community is wrought up,
it is less difficult to believe remarkable tales. To persons beyond the influence of this excitement
it is somewhat difficult to conceive how the rumor that the Germans were on their way through
Texas to take the southern States could have been believed. And yet it is reported that this
extravagant fiction was taken seriously in some quarters. On the outskirts of Meridian, Mississippi,
a band of gypsies was encamped. The rumor gained circulation that the Indians were coming back
to retake their land lost years ago. It was further rumored that the United States Government
was beginning a scheme to transport all negroes from the South to break up the Black Belt.
Passed from mouth to mouth, unrestrainedly these reports became verities.

It was further asserted on the word and honor "of one in position to know" that the Chicago
packing houses needed and would get fifty thousand negroes before the end of the year. One
explanation of the belief that the South was overrun with labor agents was the fact that every
strange face came to be recognized as a man from the North looking for laborers. If he denied
it, they simply thought he was concealing his identity from the police, and if he said nothing,
his silence was regarded as sufficient affirmation. Hundreds of disappointments are to be traced
to the rumor that a train would leave on a certain date. Hundreds would come to the station
prepared to leave and, when no agent appeared, purchased their own tickets.

