Long before William the Conqueror, there dwelt a man in the Isle of Ely, named Thomas Hickathrift,
a poor laboring man, but so strong that he was able to do in one day the ordinary work of two.
He had an only son, whom he christened Thomas, after his own name. The old man put his son
to good learning, but he would take none, for he was none of the wisest, but something soft,
and had no docility at all in him. God calling this good man, the father, to his rest, his
mother, being tender of him, kept him by her hard labor as well as she could; but this was
no easy matter, for Tom would sit all day in the chimney-corner, instead of doing anything
to help her, and although at the time we were speaking of he was only ten years old, he would
eat more than four or five ordinary men, and was five feet and a half in height, and two feet
and a half broad. His hand was more like a shoulder of mutton than a boy's hand, and he was
altogether like a little monster; but yet his great strength was not known.

Tom's strength came to be known in this manner: his mother, it seems, as well as himself, for
they lived in the days of merry old England, slept upon straw. Now, being a tidy old creature,
she must every now and then have a new bed, and one day having been promised a bottle of straw
by a neighboring farmer, after much begging she got her son to fetch it. Tom, however, made
her borrow a cart-rope first, before he would budge a step, without saying what he wanted it
for; but the poor woman, too glad to gain his help upon any terms, let him have it at once.
Tom, swinging the rope round his shoulder went to the farmer's, and found him with two men
threshing in a barn. Having told what he wanted, the farmer said he might take as much straw
as he could carry. Tom at once took him at his word, and, placing the rope in a right position,
rapidly made up a bundle containing at least a cartload, the men jeering at him all the while.
Their merriment, however, did not last long, for Tom flung the enormous bundle over his shoulders,
and walked away with it without any difficulty, and left them all gaping after him.

After this exploit Tom was no longer allowed to be idle. Every one tried to secure his services,
and we are told many tales of his mighty strength. On one occasion, having been offered as
great a bundle of fire wood as he could carry, he marched off with one of the largest trees
in the forest. Tom was also extremely fond of attending fairs; and in cudgeling, wrestling,
or throwing the hammer, there was no one who could compete with him. He thought nothing of
flinging a huge hammer into the middle of a river a mile off, and, in fact, performed such
extraordinary feats, that the folk began to have a fear of him.

At length a brewer at Lynn, who required a strong lusty fellow to carry his beer to the Marsh
and to Wisbeach, after much persuasion, and promising him a new suit of clothes and as much
as he liked to eat and drink, secured Tom for his business. The distance he daily traveled
with the beer was upwards of twenty miles, for although there was a shorter cut through the
Marsh, no one durst go that way for fear of a monstrous giant, who was lord of a portion of
the district, and who killed or made slaves of every one he could lay his hands upon.

Now, in the course of time, Tom was thoroughly tired of going such a roundabout way, and without
telling his plans to any one, he resolved to pass through the giant's domain, or lose his life
in the attempt. This was a bold undertaking, but good living had so increased Tom's strength
and courage, that venturesome as he was before, his hardiness was so much increased that he
would have faced a still greater danger. He accordingly drove his cart in the forbidden direction,
flinging the gates wide open, as if for the purpose of making his daring more plain to be seen.

At length he was espied by the giant, who was in a rage at his boldness, but consoled himself
by thinking that Tom and the beer would soon become his prey. "Sir," said the monster, "who
gave you permission to come this way? Do you not know how I make all stand in fear of me? and
you, like an impudent rogue, must come and fling my gates open at your pleasure! Are you careless
of your life? Do not you care what you do? But I will make you an example for all rogues under
the sun! Dost thou not see how many thousand heads hang upon yonder tree--heads of those who
have offended against my laws? But thy head shall hang higher than all the rest for an example!"
But Tom made him answer: "You shall not find me to be one of them." "No!" said the giant, in
astonishment and indignation; "and what a fool you must be if you come to fight with such a
one as I am, and bring never a weapon to defend yourself!" Quoth Tom, "I have a weapon here
that will make you know you are a traitorous rogue." This speech highly incensed the giant,
who immediately ran to his cave for his club, intending to dash out Tom's brains at one blow.
Tom was now much distressed for a weapon, as by some chance he had forgot one, and he began
to reflect how very little his whip would help him against a monster twelve feet in height
and six feet round the waist. But while the giant was gone for his club, Tom bethought himself,
and turning his cart upside down, adroitly took out the axletree, which would serve him for
a staff, and removing a wheel, fitted it to his arm instead of a shield--very good weapons
indeed in time of trouble, and worthy of Tom's wit. When the monster returned with his club,
he was amazed to see the weapons with which Tom had armed himself; but uttering a word of defiance,
he bore down upon the poor fellow with such heavy strokes that it was as much as Tom could
do to defend himself with his wheel. Tom, however, at length cut the giant such a blow with
the axletree on the side of his head, that he nearly reeled over. "What!" said Tom, "have you
drunk of my strong beer already?" This inquiry did not, as we may suppose, mollify the giant,
who laid on his blows so sharply and heavily that Tom was obliged to defend himself. By-and-by,
not making any impression on the wheel, the giant grew tired, and was obliged to ask Tom if
he would let him drink a little, and then he would fight again. "No," said Tom, "my mother
did not teach me that wit: who would be fool then?" The end may readily be imagined; Tom having
beaten the giant, cut off his head, and entered the cave, which he found completely filled
with gold and silver.

The news of this victory rapidly spread throughout the country, for the giant had been a common
enemy to the people about. They made bonfires for joy, and showed their respect to Tom by every
means in their power. A few days afterwards Tom took possession of the cave and all the giant's
treasure. He pulled down the former, and built a magnificent house on the spot; but as for
the land stolen by the giant, part of it he gave to the poor for their common, merely keeping
enough for himself and his good old mother, Jane Hickathrift.

Tom was now a great man and a hero with all the country folk, so that when any one was in danger
or difficulty, it was to Tom Hickathrift he must turn. It chanced that about this time many
idle and rebellious persons drew themselves together in and about the Isle of Ely, and set
themselves to defy the king and all his men.

By this time, you must know, Tom Hickathrift had secured to himself a trusty friend and comrade,
almost his equal in strength and courage, for though he was but a tinker, yet he was a great
and lusty one. Now the sheriff of the country came to Tom, under cover of night, full of fear
and trembling, and begged his aid and protection against the rebels, "else," said he, "we be
all dead men!" Tom, nothing loth, called his friend the tinker, and as soon as it was day,
led by the sheriff, they went out armed with their clubs to the place where the rebels were
gathered together. When they were got thither, Tom and the tinker marched up to the leaders
of the band, and asked them why they were set upon breaking the king's peace. To this they
answered loudly, "Our will is our law, and by that alone we will be governed!" "Nay," quoth
Tom, "if it be so, these trusty clubs are our weapons, and by them alone you shall be chastised."
These words were no sooner uttered than they madly rushed on the throng of men, bearing all
before them, and laying twenty or thirty sprawling with every blow. The tinker struck off heads
with such violence that they flew like balls for miles about, and when Tom had slain hundreds
and so broken his trusty club, he laid hold of a lusty raw-boned miller and made use of him
as a weapon till he had quite cleared the field.

If Tom Hickathrift had been a hero before, he was twice a hero now. When the king heard of
it all, he sent for him to be knighted, and when he was Sir Thomas Hickathrift nothing would
serve him but that he must be married to a great lady of the country.

So married he was, and a fine wedding they had of it. There was a great feast given, to which
all the poor widows for miles round were invited, because of Tom's mother, and rich and poor
feasted together. Among the poor widows who came was an old woman called Stumbelup, who with
much ingratitude stole from the great table a silver tankard. But she had not got safe away
before she was caught and the people were so enraged at her wickedness that they nearly hanged
her. However, Sir Tom had her rescued, and commanded that she should be drawn on a wheelbarrow
through the streets and lanes of Cambridge, holding a placard in her hand on which was written--

  "I am the naughty Stumbelup,
   Who tried to steal the silver cup."

HEROES OF SCANDINAVIA

THE STORY OF FRITHIOF

ADAPTED BY JULIA GODDARD

I

In a cottage overshadowed by wide-spreading oaks, and surrounded by a garden in which bloomed
the sweetest flowers of summer, lived an aged peasant named Hilding.

Two children might be seen playing about the garden from sunrise to sunset, but they were not
old Hilding's children. The handsome boy was the son of the thane Thorsten Vikingsson; the
little girl, with dove-like eyes and silken tresses, was the daughter of good King Belé.

Together the little ones played through the long pleasant days in their foster-father's garden,
or wandered through the woods, or climbed the hills that sheltered them from the northern winds.
The boy would seek treasures from the birds' nests for his fair companion, not even fearing
to rob the mountain eagle, so that he might bring the spoil to Ingebjorg. He would also take
her far out on the blue sea in his little boat, and Ingebjorg never felt afraid as long as
Frithiof was with her.

As Frithiof grew older, he became a great hunter, and once he slew without weapons a fierce
bear, which he brought home in triumph and laid at Ingebjorg's feet.

During the winter evenings, they sat by the blazing logs on the hearth, and Hilding told them
wonderful stories of Asgard and all its glories, of Odin the king of the gods, and of the beautiful
Frigga.

But Frithiof thought she could not be half so beautiful as Ingebjorg. And once he said so to
her, and it pleased her exceedingly. And he said, moreover, that when he was a man, Ingebjorg
should be his wife. This also she was glad to hear, for she loved Frithiof better than any
one in the world.

But Old Hilding told them not to talk nonsense, for Ingebjorg was a king's daughter, and Frithiof
but the son of a thane.

II

In a room of his palace stood King Belé. He was leaning on his sword, musing over all that
was past, and thinking of the future. He was an old man, and he felt that his strength was
failing him.

With him was his faithful friend Thorsten Vikingsson. They had grown up to manhood together,
they had fought in many a battle side by side. They had been companions at many a feast and
revel; and now, when old age had fallen upon them, they drew closer to one another, feeling
that the hand of death was raised to summon them into another world.

"The end of life is near," said the King; "the shadow of death is cast upon me. No longer do
I care for all that men call pleasure. The chase hath lost its charm, the helmet sits heavy
upon my brow, and the mead hath lost its flavor. I would that my sons were here so that I might
give them my blessing."

Then the servants summoned to King Belé's presence his two sons, Helgi and Halfdan. Dark was
the countenance of Helgi, and there was blood upon his hands, for he had just been assisting
at the midday sacrifice. But the face of Halfdan was bright as the early morning, and he was
as light and joyous as his brother was dark and gloomy.

Frithiof also came, for the thane Thorsten Vikingsson desired to see him, that he too might
bless his son when King Belé blessed the royal princes.

And the two old friends spoke words of wisdom to their children, and prayed that the gods might
be with them in peace and war, in joy and sorrow, and grant them a long life and a glorious death.

And when their counsels and prayers were ended, King Belé said, "And now, O sons, I bid you
remember, in that day when death shall claim me and my faithful friend, that ye lay our bones
side by side near the shore of the great ocean."

III

In due time, King Belé died, and Helgi and Halfdan shared his kingdom between them.

Thorsten Vikingsson died also, and Frithiof became lord of his ancestral home of Framnäs.

Rich treasures did that home contain, three of them of magic power.

The first was the sword of Angurvadel. Blood-red it shone in time of war, and wo to him who
contended with its owner on the battle-field.

Next was an arm-ring of pure gold, made by the god Völund, and given by him to one of Thorsten
Vikingsson's forefathers. Once it was stolen and carried to England by the viking Soté, but
Thorsten and his friend King Belé pursued the robber. Over the sea they sailed after the viking,
and landed at a lonely place where the rocks reared up their sharp points and made the coast
dangerous.

There were deep caverns which the waters filled when the tide was up, so lone and dark that
men were almost afraid to go into them.

But Thorsten Vikingsson and the King his master were not daunted. Hither had they come after
the pirate, and here it was that he had last been heard of; and they searched along the shore
and in the caves, and peered into every hole and cranny, until their eyes grew strained and
heavy, but no viking Soté was to be seen.

They had almost given up hope of finding him, when, looking through a chink that had hitherto
escaped their notice, a fearful sight was seen by the valiant thane.

Within a mighty vault, forming a still, cold tomb, there lay a vessel all complete, with masts
and spars and anchor; and on the deck there sat a grim skeleton clad in a robe of flame, and
on his skinless arm glittered the golden arm-ring wrought by Völund. The figure held in his
left hand a blood-stained sword, from which he was trying to scour away the stains.

"It is my arm-ring," said Thorsten Vikingsson; "it is the spirit of the viking Soté."

And forthwith he forced his way into the tomb, and, after a deadly conflict with the specter,
regained his treasure.

And the two friends sailed home in triumph.

The third great thing that Frithiof inherited was the dragon-ship "Ellide," which his forefathers
had won in the following manner:

One of them, a rough, rude viking, with a tender heart, was out at sea, and on a wreck that
was fast sinking saw an old man with green locks sitting disconsolately.

The good-natured viking picked him up, took him home, gave him of the best of food and of sparkling
mead, and would have lodged him in his house; but the green-haired man said he could not tarry,
for he had many miles to sail that night.

"But when the sun comes up in the east," added the stranger, "look for a thank-gift on the
wild seashore."

And behold, as morning dawned, the viking saw a goodly vessel making gallant headway. As she
drew near the land with streamer flying and broad sails flapping in the wind, the viking saw
that there was no soul on board of her; and yet, without steersman to guide her, the vessel
avoided the shoals and held her way straight to the spot where he was standing.

Her prow was a dragon's head, a dragon's tail formed her stern, and dragon's wings bore her
along swifter than an eagle before the storm.

The green-haired stranger was a sea-god, and the dragon-ship "Ellide" was his thank-gift.

Thus Frithiof, though only the son of a thane, had treasures that might have been coveted by
kings and princes. He sat in his father's halls, surrounded by his companions; upon his right
was seated his bosom friend Bjorn, and twelve bold champions clad in steel were ranged around
the board. And they drank in silence to the memory of Thorsten Vikingsson.

But suddenly the harps struck up, and the skalds poured forth their songs in honor of the dead
thane.

And Frithiof's eyes filled with tears as he listened to his father's praises.

IV

In spite of Frithiof's wealth, Helgi and Halfdan looked with disdain upon the son of their
father's friend; and when Frithiof asked to have Ingebjorg for his wife, Helgi scornfully answered,
"My sister shall not wed the son of a thane. If you like to be our serf, we will make room
for you among our servants."

Then went Frithiof away in wrath.

There was another suitor for the hand of Ingebjorg, good old King Ring, who, having lost his
wife, thought that the Lily of the North would make a tender mother for his little son.

And he sent to Helgi and Halfdan to ask for Ingebjorg in marriage, but the brothers treated
him as they had treated Frithiof; and the old King was roused, and he swore he would revenge
himself.

Helgi and Halfdan were afraid when they found that Ring was really making ready for war. They
began to get their army into order, and placed Ingebjorg for safety in the temple of Baldur,
and in their distress they even sent to Frithiof to ask him to come and help them.

They chose wisely in the messenger they sent to plead for them, for it was none other than
old Hilding, who had been so kind to Frithiof in his childhood.

Frithiof was playing at chess with Bjorn when Hilding arrived. He pretended not to hear the
message, and went on with his game.

"Shall the pawn save the king?" he asked of Bjorn.

And after a time he added: "There is no other way to save the queen." Which showed that he
had been all the time occupied with Hilding's errand.

Therefore he returned with the old peasant, and contrived to see Ingebjorg in the temple of
Baldur, and found that she still loved him as much as he loved her, and did not wish to marry
any one else.

And again he asked Helgi and Halfdan if they were willing that Ingebjorg should be his wife.

And again the brothers said, Nay, with scorn, and told him that he had profaned the temple
of Baldur by speaking to Ingebjorg within its walls.

"For such a misdeed," said Helgi, "death or banishment is the doom, and thou art in our power.
Nevertheless, we are willing, as we wish to make thee useful to us, to forego the penalty.
Thou shalt therefore sail forth to the distant Orkney Isles, and compel Jarl Angantyr to pay
the tribute that he owes us."

Frithiof would have refused to go, but Ingebjorg persuaded him to undertake the mission; for
she was afraid of her brothers, and knew that Frithiof would be safer on the wild seas than
in their hands.

At last Frithiof consented, and he took leave of Ingebjorg, and placed the golden bracelet
that Völund had made upon her arm, praying her to keep it for his sake.

And then he sailed away over the heaving waters, and Ingebjorg mourned that her lover was gone.

V

Over the sea. It was calm enough when Frithiof started; the storm-winds were asleep, and the
waters heaved gently as though they would fain help speed the dragon-ship peacefully on her way.

But King Helgi standing on a rock repented that he had suffered the noble Frithiof to escape
his malice; and as he watched the good ship "Ellide" riding over the sea, he prayed loudly
to the ocean-fiends that they would trouble the waters and raise a fierce tempest to swallow
up Frithiof and the dragon-ship.

All at once, the sparkling sea turned leaden gray, and the billows began to roll, the skies
grew dark, and the howl of the driving wind was answered by a sullen roar from the depths beneath.
Suddenly, a blinding flash of lightning played around the vessel, and as it vanished the pealing
thunder burst from the clouds. The raging sea foamed, and seethed, and tossed the vessel like
a feather upon its angry waves, and deeper sounded the thunder, and more fiercely flashed the
lightning round the masts.

Wilder, wilder, wilder grew the storm. Alas, for Frithiof!

"Ho! take the tiller in hand," shouted Frithiof to Bjorn. "and I will mount to the topmost
mast and look out for danger'"

And when he looked out, he saw the storm-fiends riding on a whale. One was in form like to
a great white bear, the other like unto a terrible eagle.

"Now help me, O gift of the sea-god! Help me, my gallant 'Ellide'!" cried Frithiof.

And the dragon-ship heard her master's voice, and with her keel she smote the whale; so he
died, and sank to the bottom of the sea, leaving the storm-fiends tossing upon the waves.

"Ho, spears and lances, help me in my need!" shouted Frithiof, as he took aim at the monsters.

And he transfixed the shrieking storm-fiends, and left them entangled in the huge coils of
seaweed which the storm had uprooted.

"Ho, ho!" laughed rugged Bjorn, "they are trapped in their own nets."

And so they were; and they were so much taken up with trying to free themselves from the seaweed
and from Frithiof's long darts, that they were unable to give any heed to the storm, which
therefore went down, and Frithiof and his crew sailed on, and reached the Orkney Isles in safety.

"Here comes Frithiof," said the viking Atlé. "I know him by his dragon-ship."

And forthwith the viking rose and went forth; he had heard of the strength of Frithiof, and
wished to match himself against him.

He did not wait to see whether Frithiof came in enmity or friendship. Fighting was the first
thing he thought of, and what he most cared for.

However, the viking had the worst of it in the battle.

"There is witchcraft in thy sword," said he to Frithiof.

So Frithiof threw his sword aside, and they wrestled together, unarmed, until Atlé was brought
to the ground.

Then spake Frithiof: "And if I had my sword thou wouldst not long be a living man."

"Fetch it, then," replied Atlé. "I swear by the gods that I will not move until thou dost return."

So Frithiof fetched his sword, but when he saw the conquered viking still upon the ground,
he could not bring himself to slay so honorable a man.

"Thou art too true and brave to die," said Frithiof. "Rise, let us be friends."

And the two combatants went hand in hand to the banquet hall of Angantyr, Jarl (earl) of the
Orkney Islands.

A splendid hall it was, and a rare company of heroes was there; and all listened eagerly as
Frithiof told his story, and wherefore he had come.

"I never paid tribute to King Belé, though he was an old friend of mine," said the jarl, as
Frithiof ended his speech, "nor will I to his sons. If they want aught of me, let them come
and take it."

"It was by no choice of my own that I came upon such an errand," returned Frithiof, "and I
shall be well content to carry back your answer."

"Take also this purse of gold in token of friendship," continued the jarl, "and remain with
us, for I knew thy father."

Thus Frithiof and the jarl became good friends, and Frithiof consented to stay for a while
in the Orkney Islands; but after a time he ordered out his good ship "Ellide," and set sail
for his native land.

VI

But fearful things had come to pass since he had left his home! Framnäas, the dwelling of his
fathers, was a heap of ruins, and the land was waste and desolate.

And as he stood upon the well-loved spot, striving to find some traces of the past, his faithful
hound bounded forth to greet him, and licked his master's hand. And then his favorite steed
drew near, and thrust his nose into Frithiof's hand, hoping to find therein a piece of bread,
as in the days of old. His favorite falcon perched upon his shoulder, and this was Frithiof's
welcome to the home of his ancestors.

There had been a fierce battle, for King Ring with his army had come against Helgi and Halfdan,
and the country had been laid waste, and many warriors slain.

And when all chance of withstanding him was at an end, the brothers, rather than lose their
kingdom, had consented that Ingebjorg should be the wife of Ring.

Ingebjorg was married! Frithiof's heart was full of deep sorrow, and he turned his steps towards
the temple of Baldur, hoping that at the altar of the god he might meet with consolation.

In the temple he found King Helgi, and the sorrow that was weighing down Frithiof's heart gave
place to hatred and revenge.

Caring nothing for the sacred place, he rushed madly forward. "Here, take thy tribute," said
he, and he threw the purse that Jarl Angantyr had given him with such force against the face
of the King that Helgi fell down senseless on the steps of the altar.

Next, seeing his arm-ring on the arm of the statue, for Helgi had taken it from Ingebjorg and
placed it there, he tried to tear it off, and, lo! the image tottered and fell upon the fire
that was burning with sweet perfumes before it.

Scarcely had it touched the fire when it was ablaze, and the flames spreading rapidly on every
side, the whole temple was soon a smoldering heap of ruins.

Then Frithiof sought his ship. He vowed that he would lead a viking's life, and leave forever
a land where he had suffered so much sorrow. And he put out to sea.

But no sooner were his sails spread than he saw ten vessels in chase of him, and on the deck
of one stood Helgi, who had been rescued from the burning temple, and had come in chase of him.

Yet Frithiof was rescued from the danger as if by miracle; for one by one the ships sank down
as though some water-giant had stretched out his strong arm, and dragged them below, and Helgi
only saved himself by swimming ashore.

Loud laughed Bjorn.

"I bored holes in the ships last night," said he; "it is a rare ending to Helgi's fleet."

"And now," said Frithiof, "I will forever lead a viking's life. I care not for aught upon the
land. The sea shall be my home. And I will seek climes far away from here."

So he steered the good ship "Ellide" southward, and among the isles of Greece strove to forget
the memories of bygone days.

VII

In and out of the sunny islands that lay like studs of emerald on a silver shield sailed Frithiof,
and on the deck of the dragon-ship he rested through the summer nights, looking up at the moon,
and wondering what she could tell him of the northern land.

Sometimes he dreamed of his home as it was before the wartime. Sometimes he dreamed of the
days when he and Ingebjorg roamed through the fields and woods together, or listened to old
Hilding's stories by the blazing hearth; and then he would wake up with a start and stroke
his faithful hound, who was ever near him, saying, "Thou alone knowest no change; to thee all
is alike, so long as thy master is with thee."

One night, however, as Frithiof was musing on the deck of his vessel, gazing into the cloudless
sky, a vision of the past rose up before him: old familiar faces crowded round him, and in
their midst he marked one, best beloved of all, pale, sad, with sorrowful eyes; and her lips
moved, and he seemed to hear her say, "I am very sad without thee, Frithiof."

Then a great longing came upon Frithiof to see Ingebjorg once more. He would go northward,
even to the country of King Ring; he must see Ingebjorg. What did he care for danger? He must go.

To the cold, dark north.

Yet he dared not go openly, for King Ring looked upon him as an enemy, and would seize him
at once, and if he did not kill him would shut him up in prison, so that either way he would
not see the beautiful Queen.

Frithiof. therefore disguised himself as an old man, and wrapped in bearskins, presented himself
at the palace.

The old King sat upon his throne, and at his side was Ingebjorg the Fair, looking like spring
by the side of fading autumn.

As the strangely dressed figure passed along, the courtiers jeered, and Frithiof, thrown off
his guard, angrily seized one of them, and twirled him round with but little effort.

"Ho!" said the King, "thou art a strong old man, O stranger! Whence art thou?"

"I was reared in anguish and want," returned Frithiof; "sorrow has filled a bitter cup for
me, and I have almost drunk it to the dregs. Once I rode upon a dragon, but now it lies dead
upon the seashore, and I am left in my old age to burn salt upon the strand."

"Thou art not old," answered the wise King; "thy voice is clear, and thy grasp is strong. Throw
off thy rude disguise, that we may know our guest."

Then Frithiof threw aside his bearskin, and appeared clad in a mantle of blue embroidered velvet,
and his hair fell like a golden wave upon his shoulder.

Ring did not know him, but Ingebjorg did; and when she handed the goblet for him to drink,
her color went and came "like to the northern light on a field of snow."

And Frithiof stayed at the court, until the year came round again, and spring once more put
forth its early blossoms.

One day a gay hunting train went forth, but old King Ring, not being strong, as in former years,
lay down to rest upon the mossy turf beneath some arching pines, while the hunters rode on.

Then Frithiof drew near, and in his heart wild thoughts arose. One blow of his sword, and Ingebjorg
was free to be his wife.

But as he looked upon the sleeping King, there came a whisper from a better voice, "It is cowardly
to strike a sleeping foe."

And Frithiof shuddered, for he was too brave a man to commit murder.

"Sleep on, old man," he muttered gently to himself.

But Ring's sleep was over. He started up. "O Frithiof why hast thou come hither to steal an
old man's bride?"

"I came not hither for so dark a purpose," answered Frithiof; "I came but to look on the face
of my loved Ingebjorg once more."

"I know it," replied the King; "I have tried thee, I have proved thee, and true as tried steel
hast thou passed through the furnace. Stay with us yet a little longer, the old man soon will
be gathered to his fathers, then shall his kingdom and his wife be thine."

But Frithiof replied that he had already remained too long, and that on the morrow he must depart.

Yet he went not; for death had visited the palace, and old King Ring was stretched upon his
bier, while the bards around sang of his wisdom.

Then arose a cry among the people, "We must choose a king!"

And Frithiof raised aloft upon his shield the little son of Ring.

"Here is your king," he said, "the son of wise old Ring."

The blue-eyed child laughed and clapped his hands as he beheld the glittering helmets and glancing
spears of the warriors. Then tired of his high place, he sprang down into the midst of them.

Loud uprose the shout, "The child shall be our king, and the Jarl Frithiof regent. Hail to
the young King of the Northmen!"

VIII

But Frithiof in the hour of his good fortune did not forget that he had offended the gods.
He must make atonement to Baldur for having caused the ruin of his temple. He must turn his
steps once more homeward.

Home! Home! And on his father's grave he sank down with a softened heart, and grieved over
the passion and revenge that had swayed his deeds. And as he mourned, the voices of unseen
spirits answered him, and whispered that he was forgiven.

And to his wondering eyes a vision was vouchsafed, and the temple of Baldur appeared before
him, rebuilt in more than its ancient splendor, and deep peace sank into the soul of Frithiof.

"Rise up, rise up, Frithiof, and journey onward."

The words came clear as a command to Frithiof, and he obeyed them. He rose up, and journeyed
to the place where he had left the temple a heap of blackened ruins.

And, lo! the vision that had appeared to him was accomplished, for there stood the beautiful
building, stately and fair to look upon. So beautiful, that, as he gazed, his thoughts were
of Valhalla.

He entered, and the white-robed, silver-bearded priest welcomed the long-absent viking, and
told him that Helgi was dead, and Halfdan reigned alone.

"And know, O Frithiof," said the aged man, "that Baldur is better pleased when the heart grows
soft and injuries are forgiven, than with the most costly sacrifices. Lay aside forever all
thoughts of hatred and revenge, and stretch out to Halfdan the hand of friendship."

Joy had softened all Frithiofs feelings of anger, and, advancing to Halfdan, who was standing
near the altar, he spoke out manfully.

"Halfdan," he said, "let us forget the years that have gone by. Let all past evil and injury
be buried in the grave. Henceforth let us be as brothers, and once more I ask thee, give me
Ingebjorg to be my wife."

And Halfdan made answer, "Thou shalt be my brother."

And as he spoke, an inner door flew open, and a sweet chorus of youthful voices was heard.
A band of maidens issued forth, and at their head walked Ingebjorg, fairer than ever.

Then Halfdan, leading her to Frithiof, placed her hand within that of the viking.

"Behold thy wife," said Halfdan. "Well hast thou won her. May the gods attend upon your bridal."

So Ingebjorg became the wife of Frithiof at last.

Thus steps of sorrow had but led them to a height of happiness that poets love to sing. Paths
thick with thorns had blossomed into roses, and wreaths of everlasting flowers had crowned
the winter snows. And midst the lights and shadows of the old Northland, their lives flowed
on like to two united streams that roll through quiet pastures to the ocean of eternity.

HAVELOK

ADAPTED BY GEORGE W. COX AND E.H. JONES

There was once a King of England named Athelwold. Earl, baron, thane, knight, and bondsman,
all loved him; for he set on high the wise and the just man, and put down the spoiler and the
robber. At that time a man might carry gold about with him, as much as fifty pounds, and not
fear loss. Traders and merchants bought and sold at their ease without danger of plunder. But
it was bad for the evil person and for such as wrought shame, for they had to lurk and hide
away from the King's wrath; yet was it unavailing, for he searched out the evil-doer and punished
him, wherever he might be. The fatherless and the widow found a sure friend in the King; he
turned not away from the complaint of the helpless, but avenged them against the oppressor,
were he never so strong. Kind was he to the poor, neither at any time thought he the fine bread
upon his own table too good to give to the hungry.

But a death-sickness fell on King Athelwold, and when he knew that his end was near he was
greatly troubled, for he had one little daughter of tender age, named Goldborough, and he grieved
to leave her.

"O my little daughter, heir to all the land, yet so young thou canst not walk upon it; so helpless
that thou canst not tell thy wants and yet hast need to give commandment like a queen! For
myself I would not care, being old and not afraid to die. But I had hoped to live till thou
shouldst be of age to wield the kingdom; to see thee ride on horseback through the land, and
round about a thousand knights to do thy bidding. Alas, my little child, what will become of
thee when I am gone?"

Then King Athelwold summoned his earls and barons, from Roxborough to Dover, to come and take
counsel with him as he lay a-dying on his bed at Winchester. And when they all wept sore at
seeing the King so near his end, he said, "Weep not, good friends, for since I am brought to
death's door your tears can in nowise deliver me; but rather give me your counsel. My little
daughter that after me shall be your queen; tell me in whose charge I may safely leave both
her and England till she be grown of age to rule?"

And with one accord they answered him, "In the charge of Earl Godrich of Cornwall, for he is
a right wise and a just man, and held in fear of all the land. Let him be ruler till our queen
be grown."

Then the King sent for a fair linen cloth, and thereon having laid the mass-book and the chalice
and the paton, he made Earl Godrich swear upon the holy bread and wine to be a true and faithful
guardian of his child, without blame or reproach, tenderly to entreat her, and justly to govern
the realm till she should be twenty winters old; then to seek out the best, the bravest, and
the strongest man as husband for her and deliver up the kingdom to her hand. And when Earl
Godrich had so sworn, the King shrived him clean of all his sins. Then having received his
Saviour he folded his hands, saying, "Domine, in manus tuas;" and so he died.

There was sorrow and mourning among all the people for the death of good King Athelwold. Many
the mass that was sung for him and the psalter that was said for his soul's rest. The bells
tolled and the priests sang, and the people wept; and they gave him a kingly burial.

Then Earl Godrich began to govern the kingdom; and all the nobles and all the churls, both
free and thrall, came and did allegiance to him. He set in all the castles strong knights in
whom he could trust, and appointed justices and sheriffs and peace-sergeants in all the shires.
So he ruled the country with a firm hand, and not a single wight dare disobey his word, for
all England feared him. Thus, as the years went on, the earl waxed wonderly strong and very rich.

Goldborough, the King's daughter, throve and grew up the fairest woman in all the land, and
she was wise in all manner of wisdom that is good and to be desired. But when the time drew
on that Earl Godrich should give up the kingdom to her, he began to think within himself--"Shall
I, that have ruled so long, give up the kingdom to a girl, and let her be queen and lady over
me? And to what end? All these strong earls and barons, governed by a weaker hand than mine,
would throw off the yolk and split up England into little baronies, evermore fighting betwixt
themselves for mastery. There would cease to be a kingdom, and so there would cease to be a
queen. She cannot rule it, and she shall not have it. Besides, I have a son. Him will I teach
to rule and make him king."

So the earl let his oath go for nothing, and went to Winchester where the maiden was, and fetched
her away and carried her off to Dover to a castle that is by the seashore. Therein he shut
her up and dressed her in poor clothes, and fed her on scanty fare; neither would he let any
of her friends come near her.

Now there was in Denmark a certain King called Birkabeyn, who had three children, two daughters
and a son. And Birkabeyn fell sick, and knowing that death had stricken him, he called for
Godard, whom he thought his truest friend, and said, "Godard, here I commend my children to
thee. Care for them, I pray thee, and bring them up as befits the children of a king. When
the boy is grown and can bear a helm upon his head and wield a spear, I charge thee to make
him king of Denmark. Till then hold my estate and royalty in charge for him." And Godard swore
to guard the children zealously, and to give up the kingdom to the boy. Then Birkabeyn died
and was buried. But no sooner was the King laid in his grave than Godard despised his oath;
for he took the children, Havelok and his two little sisters, Swanborough and Helfled, and
shut them up in a castle with barely clothes to cover them. And Havelok, the eldest, was scarce
three years old.

One day Godard came to see the children, and found them all crying of hunger and cold; and
he said angrily, "How now! What is all this crying about?" The boy Havelok answered him, "We
are very hungry, for we get scarce anything to eat. Is there no more corn, that men cannot
make bread and give us? We are very hungry." But his little sisters only sat shivering with
the cold, and sobbing, for they were too young to be able to speak. The cruel Godard cared
not. He went to where the little girls sat, and drew his knife, and took them one after another
and cut their throats. Havelok, seeing this sorry sight, was terribly afraid, and fell down
on his knees begging Godard to spare his life. So earnestly he pleaded that Godard was fain
to listen: and listening he looked upon the knife, red with the children's blood; and when
he saw the still, dead faces of the little ones he had slain, and looked upon their brother's
tearful face praying for life, his cruel courage failed him quite. He laid down the knife.
He would that Havelok were dead, but feared to slay him for the silence that would come. So
the boy pleaded on; and Godard stared at him as though his wits were gone; then turned upon
his heel and came out from the castle. "Yet," he thought, "if I should let him go, one day
he may wreak me mischief and perchance seize the crown. But if he dies, my children will be
lords of Denmark after me." Then Godard sent for a fisherman whose name was Grim, and he said,
"Grim, you know you are my bondsman. Do now my bidding, and to-morrow I shall make thee free
and give thee gold and land. Take this child with thee to-night when thou goest a fishing,
and at moonrise cast him in the sea, with a good anchor fast about his neck to keep him down.
To-day I am thy master and the sin is mine. To-morrow thou art free."

Then Grim took up the child and bound him fast, and having thrust a gag into his mouth so that
he could not speak, he put him in a bag and took him on his back and carried him home. When
Grim got home his wife took the bag from off his shoulders and cast it upon the ground within
doors; and Grim told her of his errand. Now as it drew to midnight he said, "Rise up, wife,
and blow up the fire to light a candle, and get me my clothes, for I must be stirring." But
when the woman came into the room where Havelok lay, she saw a bright light round the boy's
head, like a sunbeam, and she called to her husband to come and see. And when he came they
both marveled at the light and what it might mean, for it was very bright and shining. Then
they unbound Havelok and took away the gag, and turning down his shirt they found a king-mark
fair and plain upon his right shoulder. "God help us, wife," said Grim, "but this is surely
the heir of Denmark, son of Birkabeyn our King! Ay, and he shall be King in spite of Godard."
Then Grim fell down at the boy's feet and said, "Forgive me, my King, that I knew thee not.
We are thy subjects and henceforth will feed and clothe thee till thou art grown a man and
can bear shield and spear. Then deal thou kindly by me and mine, as I shall deal with thee.
But fear not Godard. He shall never know, and I shall be a bondsman still, for I will never
be free till thou, my King, shall set me free."

Then was Havelok very glad, and he sat up and begged for bread. And they hastened and fetched
bread and cheese and butter and milk; and for very hunger the boy ate up the whole loaf, for
he was well-nigh famished. And after he had eaten, Grim made a fair bed and undressed Havelok
and laid him down to rest, saying, "Sleep, my son; sleep fast and sound and have no care, for
nought shall harm thee."

On the morrow Grim went to Godard, and telling him he had drowned the boy, asked for his reward.
But Godard bade him go home and remain a bondsman, and be thankful that he was not hanged for
so wicked a deed. After a while Grim, beginning to fear that both himself and Havelok might
be slain, sold all his goods, his corn, and cattle, and fowls, and made ready his little ship,
tarring and pitching it till not a seam nor a crack could be found, and setting a good mast
and sail therein. Then with his wife, his three sons, his two daughters, and Havelok, he entered
into the ship and sailed away from Denmark; and a strong north wind arose and drove the vessel
to England, and carried it up the Humber so far as Lindesay, where it grounded on the sands.
Grim got out of the boat with his wife and children and Havelok, and then drew it ashore.

On the shore he built a house of earth and dwelt therein, and from that time the place was
called Grimsby, after Grim.

Grim did not want for food, for he was a good fisherman both with net and hook, and he would
go out in his boat and catch all manner of fish--sturgeons, turbot, salmon, cod, herrings,
mackerel, flounders, and lampreys, and he never came home empty-handed. He had four baskets
made for himself and his sons, and in these they used to carry the fish to Lincoln, to sell
them, coming home laden with meat and meal, and hemp and rope to make new nets and lines. Thus
they lived for twelve years. But Havelok saw that Grim worked very hard, and being now grown
a strong lad, he bethought him "I eat more than Grim and all his five children together, and
yet do nothing to earn the bread. I will no longer be idle, for it is a shame for a man not
to work." So he got Grim to let him have a basket like the rest, and next day took it out heaped
with fish, and sold them well, bringing home silver money for them. After that he never stopped
at home idle. But soon there arose a great dearth, and corn grew so dear that they could not
take fish enough to buy bread for all. Then Havelok, since he needed so much to eat, determined
that he would no longer be a burden to the fisherman. So Grim made him a coat of a piece of
an old sail, and Havelok set off to Lincoln barefoot to seek for work.

It so befell that Earl Godrich's cook, Bertram, wanted a scullion, and took Havelok into his
service. There was plenty to eat and plenty to do. Havelok drew water and chopped wood, and
brought twigs to make fires, and carried heavy tubs and dishes, but was always merry and blythe.
Little children loved to play with him; and grown knights and nobles would stop to talk and
laugh with him, although he wore nothing but rags of old sail-cloth which scarcely covered
his great limbs, and all admired how fair and strong a man God had made him. The cook liked
Havelok so much that he bought him new clothes, with shoes and hose; and when Havelok put them
on, no man in the kingdom seemed his peer for strength and beauty. He was the tallest man in
Lincoln, and the strongest in England.

Earl Godrich assembled a Parliament in Lincoln, and afterward held games. Strong men and youths
came to try for mastery at the game of putting the stone. It was a mighty stone, the weight
of an heifer. He was a stalwart man who could lift it to his knee, and few could stir it from
the ground. So they strove together, and he who put the stone an inch farther than the rest
was to be made champion. But Havelok, though he had never seen the like before, took up the
heavy stone, and put it twelve feet beyond the rest, and after that none would contend with
him. Now this matter being greatly talked about, it came to the ears of Earl Godrich, who bethought
him--"Did not Athelwold bid me marry his daughter to the strongest man alive? In truth, I will
marry her to this cook's scullion. That will abase her pride; and when she is wedded to a bondsman
she will be powerless to injure me. That will be better than shutting her up; better than killing
her." So he sent and brought Goldborough to Lincoln, and set the bells ringing, and pretended
great joy, for he said, "Goldborough, I am going to marry thee to the fairest and stalwartest
man living." But Goldborough answered she would never wed any one but a king. "Ay, ay, my girl;
and so thou wouldst be queen and lady over me? But thy father made me swear to give thee to
the strongest man in England, and that is Havelok, the cook's scullion; so willing or not willing
to-morrow thou shalt wed." Then the earl sent for Havelok and said, "Master, will you marry?"
"Not I," said Havelok; "for I cannot feed nor clothe a wife. I have no house, no cloth, no
victuals. The very clothes I wear do not belong to me, but to Bertram the cook, as I do." "So
much the better," said the earl; "but thou shalt either wed her that I shall bring thee, or
else hang from a tree. So choose." Then Havelok said he would sooner wed. Earl Godrich went
back to Goldborough and threatened her with burning at the stake unless she yielded to his
bidding. So, thinking it God's will, the maid consented. And on the morrow they were wed by
the Archbishop of York, who had come down to the Parliament, and the earl told money out upon
the mass-book for her dower.

Now after he was wed, Havelok knew not what to do, for he saw how greatly Earl Godrich hated
him. He thought he would go and see Grim. When he got to Grimsby he found that Grim was dead,
but his children welcomed Havelok and begged him bring his wife thither, since they had gold
and silver and cattle. And when Goldborough came, they made a feast, sparing neither flesh
nor fowl, wine nor ale. And Grim's sons and daughters served Havelok and Goldborough.

Sorrowfully Goldborough lay down at night, for her heart was heavy at thinking she had wedded
a bondsman. But as she fretted she saw a light, very bright like a blaze of fire, which came
out of Havelok's mouth. And she thought, "Of a truth but he must be nobly born." Then she looked
on his shoulder, and saw the king mark, like a fair cross of red gold, and at the same time
she heard an angel say--

"Goldborough, leave sorrowing, for Havelok is a king's son, and shall be king of England and
of Denmark, and thou queen."

Then was Goldborough glad, and kissed Havelok, who, straightway waking, said, "I have had a
strange dream. I dreamed I was on a high hill, whence I could see all Denmark; and I thought
as I looked that it was all mine. Then I was taken up and carried over the salt sea to England,
and methought I took all the country and shut it within my hand." And Goldborough said, "What
a good dream is this! Rejoice, for it means that thou shalt be king of England and of Denmark.
Take now my counsel and get Grim's sons to go with thee to Denmark."

In the morning Havelok went to the church and prayed to God to speed him in his undertaking.
Then he came home and found Grim's three sons just going off fishing. Their names were Robert
the Red, William Wendut, and Hugh Raven. He told them who he was, how Godard had slain his
sisters, and delivered him over to Grim to be drowned, and how Grim had fled with him to England.
Then Havelok asked them to go with him to Denmark, promising to make them rich men. To this
they gladly agreed, and having got ready their ship and victualed it, they set sail with Havelok
and his wife for Denmark. The place of their landing was hard by the castle of a Danish earl
named Ubbe, who had been a faithful friend to King Birkabeyn. Havelok went to Earl Ubbe, with
a gold ring for a present, asking leave to buy and sell goods from town to town in that part
of the country. Ubbe, beholding the tall, broad-shouldered, thick-chested man, so strong and
cleanly made, thought him more fit for a knight than for a peddler. He bade Havelok bring his
wife and come and eat with him at his table. So Havelok went to fetch Goldborough, and Robert
the Red and William Wendut led her between them till they came to the castle, where Ubbe, with
a great company of knights, welcomed them gladly. Havelok stood a head taller than any of the
knights, and when they sat at table Ubbe's wife ate with him, and Goldborough with Ubbe. It
was a great feast, and after the feast Ubbe sent Havelok and his friends to Bernard Brown,
bidding him take care of them till next day. So Bernard received the guests and gave them a
fine supper.

Now in the night there came sixty-one thieves to Bernard's house. Each had a drawn sword and
a long knife, and they called to Bernard to undo the door. He started up and armed himself,
and told them to go away. But the thieves defied him, and with a great boulder broke down the
door. Then Havelok, hearing the din, rose up, and seizing the bar of the door stood on the
threshold and threw the door wide open, saying, "Come in, I am ready for you!" First came three
against him with their swords, but Havelok slew these with the door bar at a single blow; the
fourth man's crown he broke; he smote the fifth upon the shoulders, the sixth athwart the neck,
and the seventh on the breast; so they fell dead. Then the rest drew back and began to fling
their swords like darts at Havelok, till they had wounded him in twenty places. In spite of
that, in a little while he had killed a score of the thieves. Then Hugh Raven, waking up, called
Robert and William Wendut. One seized a staff, each of the others a piece of timber as big
as his thigh, and Bernard his axe, and all three ran out to help Havelok. So well did Havelok
and his fellows fight, breaking ribs and arms and shanks, and cracking crowns, that not a thief
of all the sixty-one was left alive. Next morning, when Ubbe rode past and saw the sixty-one
dead bodies, and heard what Havelok had done, he sent and brought both him and Goldborough
to his own castle, and fetched a leech to tend his wounds, and would not hear of his going
away; for, said he, "This man is better than a thousand knights."

Now that same night, after he had gone to bed, Ubbe awoke about midnight and saw a great light
shining from the chamber where Havelok and Goldborough lay. He went softly to the door and
peeped in to see what it meant. They were lying fast asleep, and the light was streaming from
Havelok's mouth. Ubbe went and called his knights, and they also came in and saw this marvel.
It was brighter than a hundred burning tapers; bright enough to count money by. Havelok lay
on his left side with his back towards them, uncovered to the waist; and they saw the king-mark
on his right shoulder sparkle like shining gold and carbuncle. Then knew they that it was King
Birkabeyn's son, and seeing how like he was to his father, they wept for joy. Thereupon Havelok
awoke, and all fell down and did him homage, saying he should be their king. On the morrow
Ubbe sent far and wide and gathered together earl and baron, dreng [servant] and thane, clerk,
knight and burgess, and told them all the treason of Godard, and how Havelok had been nurtured
and brought up by Grim in England. Then he showed them their King, and the people shouted for
joy at having so fair and strong a man to rule them. And first Ubbe sware fealty to Havelok,
and after him the others both great and small. And the sheriffs and constables and all that
held castles in town or burg came out and promised to be faithful to him. Then Ubbe drew his
sword and dubbed Havelok a knight, and set a crown upon his head and made him King. And at
the crowning they held merry sports--jousting with sharp spears, tilting at the shield, wrestling,
and putting the shot. There were harpers and pipers and gleemen with their tabors; and for
forty days a feast was held with rich meats in plenty and the wine flowed like water. And first
the King made Robert and William Wendut and Hugh Raven barons, and gave them land and fee.
Then when the feast was done, he set out with a thousand knights and five thousand sergeants
to seek for Godard. Godard was a-hunting with a great company of men, and Robert riding on
a good steed found him and bade him to come to the King. Godard smote him and set on his knights
to fight with Robert and the King's men. They fought till ten of Godard's men were slain; the
rest began to flee. "Turn again, O knights!" cried Godard; "I have fed you and shall feed you
yet. Forsake me not in such a plight." So they turned about and fought again. But the King's
men slew every one of them, and took Godard and bound him and brought him to Havelok. Then
King Havelok summoned all his nobles to sit in judgment and say what should be done to such
a traitor. And they said, "Let him be dragged to the gallows at the mare's tail, and hanged
by the heels in fetters, with this writing over him: 'This is he that drove the King out of
the land, and took the life of the King's sisters.'" So Godard suffered his doom, and none
pitied him.

Then Havelok gave his scepter into Earl Ubbe's hand to rule Denmark on his behalf, and after
that took ship and came to Grimsby, where he built a priory for black monks to pray evermore
for the peace of Grim's soul. But when Earl Godrich understood that Havelok and his wife were
come to England, he gathered together a great army at Lincoln on the 17th of March, and came
to Grimsby to fight with Havelok and his knights. It was a great battle, wherein more than
a thousand knights were slain. The field was covered with pools of blood. Hugh Raven and his
brothers, Robert and William, did valiantly and slew many earls; but terrible was Earl Godrich
to the Danes, for his sword was swift and deadly. Havelok came to him and reminding him of
the oath he sware to Athelwold that Goldborough should be queen, bade him yield the land. But
Godrich defied him, and running forward with his heavy sword cut Havelok's shield in two. Then
Havelok smote him to the earth with a blow upon the helm; but Godrich arose and wounded him
upon the shoulder, and Havelok, smarting with the cut, ran upon his enemy and hewed off his
right hand. Then he took Earl Godrich and bound him and sent him to the Queen. And when the
English knew that Goldborough was the heir of Athelwold, they laid by their swords and came
and asked pardon of the Queen. And with one accord they took Earl Godrich and bound him to
a stake and burned him to ashes, for the great outrage he had done.

Then all the English nobles came and sware fealty to Havelok and crowned him King in London.
Of Grim's two daughters, Havelok wedded Gunild, the elder, to Earl Reyner of Chester; and Levive,
the younger, fair as a new rose blossom opening to the sun, he married to Bertram, the cook,
whom he made Earl of Cornwall in the room of Godrich.

Sixty years reigned Havelok and Goldborough in England, and they had fifteen children, who
all became kings and queens. All the world spake of the great love that was between them. Apart,
neither knew joy or happiness. They never grew weary of each other, for their love was ever
new; and not a word of anger passed between them all their lives.

THE VIKINGS

ADAPTED BY MARY MACGREGOR

I

CHARACTERS OF THE VIKINGS

In Norway, Sweden, and Denmark, in all the villages and towns around the shores of the Baltic,
the viking race was born.

It has been said that the name "vikings" was first given to those Northmen who dwelt in a part
of Denmark called Viken. However that may be, it was the name given to all the Northmen who
took to a wild, sea-roving life, because they would often seek shelter with their boats in
one or another of the numerous bays which abounded along their coasts.

Thus the vikings were not by any means all kings, as you might think from their name; yet among
them were many chiefs of royal descent. These, although they had neither subjects nor kingdoms
over which to rule, no sooner stepped on board a viking's boat to take command of the crew,
than they were given title of king.

The Northmen did not, however, spend all their lives in harrying and burning other countries.
When the seas were quiet in the long, summer days, they would go off, as I have told you, on
their wild expeditions. But when summer was over, and the seas began to grow rough and stormy,
the viking bands would go home with their booty and stay there, to build their houses, reap
their fields, and, when spring had come again, to sow their grain in the hope of a plenteous
harvest.

There was thus much that the viking lad had to learn beyond the art of wielding the battle-axe,
poising the spear, and shooting an arrow straight to its mark. Even a free-born yeoman's son
had to work, work as hard as had the slaves or thralls who were under him.

The old history books, or Sagas, as the Norseman called them, have, among other songs, this
one about the duties of a well-born lad:

  "He now learnt
  To tame oxen
  And till the ground,
  To timber houses
  And build barns,
  To make carts
  And form plows."

Indeed, it would have surprised you to see the fierce warriors and mighty chiefs themselves
laying aside their weapons and working in the fields side by side with their thralls, sowing,
reaping, threshing. Yet this they did.

Even kings were often to be seen in the fields during the busy harvest season. They would help
their men to cut the golden grain, and with their own royal hands help to fill the barn when
the field was reaped. To king and yeomen alike, work, well done, was an honorable deed.

Long before the Sagas were written down, the stories of the heroes were sung in halls and on
battle-fields by the poets of the nation. These poets were named skalds, and their rank among
the Northmen was high.

Sometimes the Sagas were sung in prose, at other times in verse. Sometimes they were tales
which had been handed down from father to son for so many years that it was hard to tell how
much of them was history, how much fable. At other times the Sagas were true accounts of the
deeds of the Norse kings. For the skalds were ofttimes to be seen on the battle-fields or battleships
of the vikings, and then their songs were of the brave deeds which they had themselves seen
done, of the victories and defeats at which they themselves had been present.

The battles which the vikings fought were fought on the sea more frequently than on the land.

Their warships were called long-ships and were half-decked The rowers sat in the center of
the boat, which was low, so that their oars could reach the water. Sails were used, either
red or painted in different stripes, red, blue, yellow, green. These square, brightly colored
sails gave the boats a gay appearance which was increased by the round shields which were hung
outside the gunwale and which were also painted red, black, or white. At the prow there was
usually a beautifully carved and gorgeously painted figurehead. The stem and stern of the ships
were high. In the stern there was an upper deck, but in the forepart of the vessel there was
nothing but loose planks on which the sailors could step. When a storm was raging or a battle
was being fought, the loose planks did not, as you may imagine, offer a very firm foothold.

The boats were usually built long and pointed for the sake of speed, and had seats for thirty
rowers. Besides the rowers, the long-boats could hold from sixty to one hundred and fifty sailors.

II

HARALD FAIRHAIR

Harald Fairhair was one of the foremost of the kings of Norway. He was so brave a Northman
that he became king over the whole of Norway. In eight hundred and sixty-one, when he began
to reign, Norway was divided into thirty-one little kingdoms, over each of which ruled a little
king. Harald Fairhair began his reign by being one of these little kings.

Harald was only a boy, ten years of age, when he succeeded his father; but as he grew up he
became a very strong and handsome man, as well as a very wise and prudent one. Indeed he grew
so strong that he fought with and vanquished five great kings in one battle.

After this victory, Harald sent, so the old chronicles of the kings of Norway say, some of
his men to a princess named Gyda, bidding them tell her that he wished to make her his queen.

But Gyda wished to marry a king who ruled over a whole country, rather than one who owned but
a small part of Norway, and this was the message she sent back to Harald:

"Tell Harald," said the maiden, "that I will agree to be his wife if he will first, for my
sake, subdue all Norway to himself, for only thus methinks can he be called the king of a people."

The messengers thought Gyda's words too bold, but when King Harald heard them, he said, "It
is wonderful that I did not think of this before.

Then, without delay, Harald assembled a great force and prepared to conquer all the other little
kings who were ruling over the different parts of Norway.

In many districts the kings had no warning of Harald's approach, and before they could collect
an army they were vanquished.

When their ruler was defeated, many of his subjects fled from the country, manned their ships
and sailed away on viking expeditions. Others made peace with King Harald and became his men.

Over each district, as he conquered it, Harald placed a jarl or earl, that he might judge and
do justice, and also that he might collect the scat and fines which Harald had imposed upon
the conquered people. As the earls were given a third part of the money they thus collected,
they were well pleased to take service with King Harald. And indeed they grew richer, and more
powerful too, than they had ever been before.

It took King Harald ten long years to do as he had vowed, and make all Norway his own. During
these years a great many new bands of vikings were formed, and led by their chief or king they
left the country, not choosing to become King Harald's men.

These viking bands went west, over the sea, to Shetland and Orkney, to the Hebrides, and also
to England, Scotland, and Ireland.

During the winter they made their home in these lands, but in summer they sailed to the coast
of Norway and did much damage to the towns that lay along the coast. Then, growing bolder,
they ventured inland, and because of their hatred against King Harald, they plundered and burned
both towns and villages.

Meanwhile Harald, having fulfilled his vow, had his hair combed and cut. It had grown so rough
and tangled during these ten years that his people had named him Harald Sufa, which meant "Shock-headed
Harald." Now, however, after his long, yellow hair was combed and clipped, he was named Harald
Fairhair, and by this name he was ever after known. Nor did the King forget Gyda, for whose
sake he had made his vow. He sent for her, and she, as she had promised, came to marry the
King of all Norway.

Now the raids of the vikings along the coasts of Norway angered the King, and he determined
that they should end. He therefore set out with a large fleet in search of his rebellious subjects.

These, when they heard of his approach, fled to their long-ships and sailed out to sea. But
Harald reached Shetland and slew those vikings who had not fled, then, landing on the Orkney
Isles, he burned and plundered, sparing no Northman who crossed his path. On the Hebrides King
Harald met with worthy foes, for here were many who had once themselves been kings in Norway.
In all the battles that he fought Harald was victorious and gained much booty.

When he went back to Norway the King left one of his jarls to carry on war against the inhabitants
of Scotland. Caithness and Sutherland were conquered by this jarl for Harald, and thereafter
many chiefs, both Norsemen and Danes, settled there. While Harald Fairhair was ruling in Norway,
a grandson of Alfred the Great became king in England. His name was Athelstan the Victorious.
Now Athelstan liked to think that he was a greater king than Harald Fairhair. It pleased him,
too, to play what seemed to him a clever trick on his rival across the sea.

He sent a beautiful sword to Harald. Its hilt was covered with gold and silver, and set with
precious gems. When Athelstan's messenger stood before the King of Norway he held out the hilt
of the sword toward him, saying "Here is a sword that King Athelstan doth send to thee." Harald
at once seized it by the hilt. Then the messenger smiled and said, "Now shalt thou be subject
to the King of England, for thou hast taken the sword by the hilt as he desired thee." To take
a sword thus was in those olden days a sign of submission.

Then Harald was very angry, for he knew that Athelstan had sent this gift only that he might
mock him. He wished to punish the messenger whom Athelstan had sent with the sword. Nevertheless
he remembered his habit whenever he got angry, to first keep quiet and let his anger subside,
and then look at the matter calmly. By the time the prudent King had done this, his anger had
cooled, and Athelstan's messenger departed unharmed.

But with Athelstan Harald still hoped to be equal.

The following summer he sent a ship to England. It was commanded by Hauk, and into his hands
Harald intrusted his young son Hakon, whom he was sending to King Athelstan. For what purpose
you shall hear.

Hauk reached England safely, and found the King in London at a feast. The captain boldly entered
the hall where the feasters sat, followed by thirty of his men, each one of whom had his shield
hidden under his cloak.

Carrying Prince Hakon, who was a child, in his arms, Hauk stepped before the King and saluted
him. Then before Athelstan knew what he meant to do, Hauk, had placed the little prince on
the King's knee.

"Why hast thou done this?" said Athelstan to the bold Northman.

"Harald of Norway asks thee to foster his child," answered Hauk. But well he knew that his
words would make the King of England wroth. For one who became foster-father to a child was
usually of lower rank than the real father. This, you see, was Harald's way of thanking Athelstan
for his gift of the sword.

Well, as Hauk expected, the King was very angry when he heard why the little prince had been
placed on his knee. He drew his sword as though he would slay the child.

Then the viking, with his men, left the hall and strode down to the river, where they embarked,
and at once set sail for Norway.

When Hauk reached Norway and told the King all that he had done, Harald was well content, for
the King of England had been forced to become the foster-father of his little son.

Athelstan's anger against his royal foster-child was soon forgotten, and ere long he loved
him better than any of his own kin.

He ordered the priest to baptize the little prince, and to teach him the true faith.

III

THE SEA-FIGHT OF THE JOMSVIKINGS

While King Harald was reigning in Denmark, he built on the shores of the Baltic a fortress
which he called Jomsburg. In this fortress dwelt a famous band of vikings named the Jomsvikings.
It is one of their most famous sea-fights that I am going to tell you now.

The leader of the band was Earl Sigvald, and a bold and fearless leader he had proved himself.

It was at a great feast that Sigvald made the rash vow which led to this mighty battle. After
the horn of mead had been handed round not once or twice only, Sigvald arose and vowed that,
before three winters had passed, he and his band would go to Norway and either kill or chase
Earl Hakon out of the country.

In the morning Sigvald and his Jomsvikings perhaps felt that they had vowed more than they
were able to perform, yet it was not possible to withdraw from the enterprise unless they were
willing to be called cowards. They therefore thought it would be well to start without delay,
that they might, if possible, take Earl Hakon unawares.

In a short time therefore the Jomsviking fleet was ready, and sixty warships sailed away toward
Norway. No sooner did they reach Earl Hakon's realms than they began to plunder and burn along
the coast. But while they gained booty, they lost time. For Hakon, hearing of their doings,
at once split a war-arrow and sent it all over the realm.

It was in this way that Hakon heard that the Jomsvikings were in his land. In one village the
vikings had, as they thought, killed all the inhabitants. But unknown to them a man had escaped
with the loss of his hand, and hastening to the shore he sailed away in a light boat in search
of the earl.

Hakon was at dinner when the fugitive stood before him.

"Art thou sure that thou didst see the Jomsvikings?" asked Hakon, when he had listened to the
man's tidings.

For answer, the peasant stretched out the arm from which the hand had been sundered, saying,
"Here is the token that the Jomsvikings are in the land."

It was then that Hakon sent the war-arrow throughout the land and speedily gathered together
a great force. Eric one of his sons, also collected troops, but though the preparations for
war went on apace, the Jomsvikings heard nothing of them, and still thought that they would
take Earl Hakon by surprise.

At length the vikings sailed into a harbor about twenty miles north of a town called Stad.
As they were in want of food some of the band landed, and marched to the nearest village. Here
they slaughtered the men who could bear arms, burned the houses, and drove all the cattle they
could find before them toward the shore. By the bear the peasant meant Earl Hakon, as the vikings
well knew.

"What says the man?" they all cried, together; "can he tell us about Earl Hakon?"

"Yesternight he lay inside the island that you can see yonder," said the peasant; "and you
can slay him when you like, for he is waiting for his men."

"Thou shalt have all this cattle," cried one of the vikings, "if thou wilt show us the way
to the jarl."

Then the peasant went on board the vikings' boat, and they hastened to Sigvald to tell him
that the earl lay in a bay but a little way off.

The Jomsvikings armed themselves as if they were going to meet a large army, which the peasant
said was unnecessary, as the earl had but few ships and men.

But no sooner had the Jomsvikings come within sight of the bay than they knew that the peasant
had deceived them. Before them lay more than three hundred war-ships.

When the peasant saw that his trick was discovered he jumped overboard, hoping to swim to shore.
But one of the vikings flung a spear after him, and the peasant sank and was seen no more.

Now though the vikings had fewer ships than Earl Hakon, they were larger and higher, and Sigvald
hoped that this would help them to gain the victory.

Slowly the fleets drew together and a fierce battle began. At first Hakon's men fell in great
numbers, for the Jomsvikings fought with all their wonted strength. So many spears also were
aimed at Hakon himself that his armor was split asunder and he threw it aside.

When the earl saw that the battle was going against him, he called his sons together and said,
"I dislike to fight against these men, for I believe that none are their equals, and I see
that it will fare ill with us unless we hit upon some plan. Stay here with the host and I will
go ashore and see what can be done."

Then the jarl went into the depths of a forest, and, sinking on his knees, he prayed to the
goddess Thorgerd. But when no answer came to his cry, Hakon thought she was angry, and to appease
her wrath he sacrificed many precious things to her. Yet still the goddess hid her face.

In his despair Hakon then promised to offer human sacrifices, but no sign was given to him
that his offering would be accepted.

"Thou shalt have my son, my youngest son Erling!" cried the King, and then at length, so it
seemed to Hakon, Thorgerd was satisfied. He therefore gave his son, who was but seven years
old, to his thrall, and bade him offer the child as a sacrifice to the goddess.

Then Hakon went back to his ships, and lo! as the battle raged, the sky began to grow dark
though it was but noon, and a storm arose and a heavy shower of hail fell. The hail was driven
by the wind in the faces of the vikings, and flashes of lightning blinded them and loud peals
of thunder made them afraid. But a short time before the warriors had flung aside their garments
because of the heat; now the cold was so intense that they could scarce hold their weapons.

While the storm raged, Hakon praised the gods and encouraged his men to fight more fiercely.
Then, as the battle went against them, the Jomsvikings saw in the clouds a troll, or fiend.
In each finger the troll held an arrow, which, as it seemed to them, always hit and killed a man.

Sigvald saw that his men were growing fearful, and he, too; felt that the gods were against
them. "It seems to me," he said, "that it is not men whom we have to fight to-day but fiends,
and it requires some manliness to go boldly against them."

But now the storm abated, and once more the vikings began to conquer. Then the earl cried again
to Thorgerd, saying that now he deserved victory, for he had sacrificed to her his youngest son.

Then once more the storm-cloud crept over the sky and a terrific storm of hail beat upon the
vikings, and now they saw, not in the clouds, but in Hakon's ship, two trolls, and they were
speeding arrows among the enemies of Hakon.

Even Sigvald, the renowned leader of the Jomsvikings, could not stand before these unknown
powers. He called to his men to flee, for, said he, "we did not vow to fight against fiends,
but against men."

But though Sigvald sailed away with thirty-five ships, there were some of his men who scorned
to flee even from fiends. Twenty-five ships stayed behind to continue the fight.

The viking Bui was commander of one of these. His ship was boarded by Hakon's men, whereupon
he took one of his treasures-chests in either hand and jumped into the sea. As he jumped he
cried, "Overboard, all Bui's men," and neither he nor those who followed him were ever seen again.

Before the day was ended, Sigvald's brother had also sailed away with twenty-four boats, so
that there was left but one boat out of all the Jomsvikings' fleet. It was commanded by the
viking Vagn.

Earl Hakon sent his son Eric to board this boat, and after a brave fight it was captured, for
Vagn's men were stiff and weary with their wounds, and could scarce wield their battle-axes
or spears.

With thirty-six of his men Vagn was taken prisoner and brought to land, and thus Earl Hakon
had defeated the famous vikings of Jomsburg. The victory was due, as Hakon at least believed,
to the aid of the goddess Thorgerd.

When the weapons and other booty which they had taken had been divided among the men, Earl
Hakon and his chiefs sat down in their warbooths and appointed a man named Thorkel to behead
the prisoners.

Eighteen were beheaded ere the headsman came to Vagn. Now, as he had a dislike to this brave
viking, Thorkel rushed at him, holding his sword in both hands. But Vagn threw himself suddenly
at Thorkel's feet, whereupon the headsman tripped over him. In a moment Vagn was on his feet,
Thorkel's sword in his hand, and before any one could stop him he had slain his enemy.

Then Earl Eric, Hakon's son, who loved brave men, said, "Vagn, wilt thou accept life?"

"That I will," said the bold viking, "if thou give it to all of us who are still alive."

"Loose the prisoners!" cried the young earl, and it was done. Thus of the famous band of Jomsvikings
twelve yet lived to do many a valiant deed in days to come. And this right soon he did.

IV

SIEGFRIED AT THE COURT OF WORMS

At the Court of Worms in Burgundy dwelt the Princess Kriemhild, whose fame for beauty and kindness
had spread to many a far-off land. She lived with her mother Queen Uté and her three brothers
King Gunther, King Gernot, and King Giselher. Her father had long been dead. Gunther sat upon
the throne and had for chief counselor his cruel uncle Hagen.

One night Kriemhild dreamed that a beautiful wild hawk with feathers of gold came and perched
upon her wrist. It grew so tame that she took it with her to the hunt. Kriemhild replied, "O
lady mother, I wish no knight to woo me from thy side." "Nay," said the Queen, "Speak not thus,
for God will send to thee a noble knight and strong."

Hearing of the Princess, Siegfried, who lived in the Netherlands, began to think that she was
strangely like the unknown maiden whose image he carried in his heart. So he set out to go
into Burgundy to see the beautiful Kriemhild who had sent many knights away.

Siegfried's father wished to send an army with him but Siegfried said, "Nay, give me only,
I pray thee, eleven stalwart warriors." He sent for Hagen, chief counselor, who said they must
needs be princes or ambassadors. Graciously then did the King welcome Siegfried.

Now Siegfried was not ready to speak of the fair Princess, so he told the King that he had
come to see the splendor of the court and to do great deeds, even to wrest from him the broad
realm of Burgundy and likewise all his castles. "Unless thou dost conquer me I shall rule in
my great might in this realm."

"We do well to be angry at the words of this bold stripling," said Hagen. A quarrel arose,
but King Gernot, Gunther's brother, made peace and Siegfried began to think of the wonderlady
of his dreams and grew ashamed of his boasting.

Then all Burgundy began to hear of Siegfried. At the end of the year Burgundy was threatened
with invasion. King Ludegast and King Ludeger threatened mighty wars.

When the rude kings heard that Siegfried would fight for Burgundy their hearts failed for fear
and in great haste they gathered their armies. King Gunther meanwhile had assembled his men
and the chief command was given to Hagen, but Siegfried rode forward to seek the foe.

In advance of their warriors stood Ludegast and Ludeger ready for the fray. Grasping his good
sword Balmung, Siegfried first met Ludegast piercing him through his steel harness with an
ugly thrust till he lay helpless at his feet. Thirty of the King's warriors rode up and beset
the hero, but Siegfried slaughtered all save one. He was spared to carry the dire tidings of
the capture of Ludegast to his army.

Ludeger had seen the capture of his brother and met the onslaught that Siegfried soon made
upon him.

When Uté, the mother of Kriemhild, heard that a grand festival celebrating the prowess of Prince
Siegfried was to be held at court, she made up her mind that she and her daughter would lend
their gracious presence. When Siegfried saw the Princess he knew that she was indeed more beautiful
than he had ever dreamed. A messenger was sent by the King bidding him greet the Princess.

Choosing one thousand of the strongest and biggest, the Prince marched with them down to the
seashore.

When the banquet was ended, the King was wedded to Queen Brunhild, and Siegfried to the maiden
whom he loved so well, and though he had no crown to place upon her brow, the Princess was
well content.

HERO OF FRANCE

ROLAND

ADAPTED BY H.E. MARSHALL

I

BLANCANDRIN'S MISSION

For seven long years the great Emperor Charlemagne had been fighting in Spain against the Saracens;
Saragossa alone remained unconquered, but word had gone forth that it, too, was doomed.

King Marsil, not knowing how to save his city from the conqueror, called a council of his wise
men. Blancandrin, a knight of great valor, was chosen with ten others to set out with olive-branches
in their hands, followed by a great train of slaves bearing presents, to seek the court of
the great Christian King and sue for peace.

Bending low before Charlemagne, Blancandrin promised for King Marsil vassalage to the Emperor
and baptism in the name of the Holy Christ. To assure the truth of his words, he said "We will
give thee hostages, I will even send my own son if we keep not faith with thee."

In the morning Charlemagne called his wise men and told them the message of Blancandrin.

Then Roland, one of the twelve chosen knights and the nephew of Charlemagne, rose flushed with
anger and cried, "Believe not this Marsil, he was ever a traitor. Carry the war to Saragossa.
War! I say war!"

Ganelon a knight, who hated Roland, strode to the foot of the throne, saying, "Listen not to
the counsel of fools but accept King Marsil's gifts and promises."

Following the counsel of Duke Naimes the wisest of the court, Charlemagne declared that some
one should be sent to King Marsil and asked the lords whom he should send.

"Send me," cried Roland. "Nay," said Oliver, "let me go rather." But the Emperor said, "Not
a step shall ye go, either one or other of you."

"Ah!" said Roland, "if I may not go, then send Ganelon my stepfather." "Good!" replied the
great Emperor, "Ganelon it shall be."

Ganelon trembled with passion and said, "this is Roland's work," for he knew he would never
return alive to his wife and child. The quarrel between Roland and Ganelon was bitter indeed.
"I hate thee," Ganelon hissed at last. "I hate thee!" Then, struggling to be calm, he turned
to the Emperor and said, "I am ready to do thy will."

"Fair Sir Ganelon," said Charlemagne, "this is my message to the heathen King Marsil. Say to
him that he shall bend the knee to gentle Christ and be baptized in His name. Then will I give
him full half of Spain to hold in fief. Over the other half Count Roland, my nephew, well beloved,
shall reign."

Without a word of farewell Ganelon went to his own house. There he clad himself in his finest
armor. Commending his wife and child to the care of the knights who pressed round to bid him
Godspeed, Ganelon, with bent head, turned slowly from their sight and rode to join the heathen
Blancandrin.

II

GANELON'S TREASON

As Ganelon and Blancandrin rode along together beneath the olive-trees and through the fruitful
vineyards of sunny Spain, the heathen began to talk cunningly. "What a wonderful knight is
thy Emperor," he said. "He hath conquered the world from sea to sea. But why cometh he within
our borders? Why left he us not in peace?"

"It was his will," replied Ganelon. "There is no man in all the world so great as he. None
may stand against him."

"You Franks are gallant men indeed," said Blancandrin, "but your dukes and counts deserve blame
when they counsel the Emperor to fight with us now."

"There is none deserveth that blame save Roland," said Ganelon. "Such pride as his ought to
be punished. Oh, that some one would slay him!" he cried fiercely. "Then should we have peace."

"This Roland is very cruel," said Blancandrin, "to wish to conquer all the world as he does.
But in whom does he trust for help?"

"In the Franks," said Ganelon. "They love him with such a great love that they think he can
do no wrong. He giveth them gold and silver, jewels and armor, so they serve him. Even to the
Emperor himself he maketh rich presents. He will not rest until he hath conquered all the world,
from east to west."

The Saracen looked at Ganelon out of the corner of his eye. He was a noble knight, but now
that his face was dark with wrath and jealousy, he looked like a felon.

"Listen thou to me," said Blancandrin softly. "Dost wish to be avenged upon Roland? Then, by
Mahomet! deliver him into our hands. King Marsil is very generous; for such a kindness he will
willingly give unto thee of his countless treasure."

Ganelon heard the tempter's voice, but he rode onward as if unheeding, his chin sunken upon
his breast, his eyes dark with hatred.

But long ere the ride was ended and Saragossa reached, the heathen lord and Christian knight
had plotted together for the ruin of Roland.

At length the journey was over, and Ganelon lighted down before King Marsil, who awaited him
beneath the shadow of his orchard-trees, seated upon a marble throne covered with rich silken
rugs. Around him crowded his nobles, silent and eager to learn how Blancandrin had fared upon
his errand.

Bowing low, Blancandrin approached the throne, leading Ganelon by the hand. "Greeting," he
said, "in the name of Mahomet. Well, O Marsil, have I done thy behest to the mighty Christian
King. But save that he raised his hands to heaven and gave thanks to his God, no answer did
he render to me. But unto thee he sendeth one of his nobles, a very powerful man in France.
From him shalt thou learn if thou shalt have peace or war."

"Let him speak," said King Marsil. "We will listen."

"Greeting," said Ganelon, "in the name of God--the God of glory whom we ought all to adore.
Listen ye to the command of Charlemagne: Thou, O King, shalt receive the Christian faith, then
half of Spain will he leave to thee to hold in fief. The other half shall be given to Count
Roland--a haughty companion thou wilt have there. If thou wilt not agree to this, Charlemagne
will besiege Saragossa, and thou shalt be led captive to Aix, there to die a vile and shameful
death."

King Marsil shook with anger and turned pale. In his hand he held an arrow fledged with gold.
Now, springing from his throne, he raised his arm as if he would strike Ganelon. But the knight
laid his hand upon his sword and drew it half out of the scabbard. "Sword," he cried, "thou
art bright and beautiful; oft have I carried thee at the court of my King. It shall never be
said of me that I died alone in a foreign land, among fierce foes, ere thou wert dipped in
the blood of their bravest and best."

For a few moments the heathen King and the Christian knight eyed each other in deep silence.
Then the air was filled with shouts. "Part them, part them!" cried the Saracens.

The noblest of the Saracens rushed between their King and Ganelon. "It was a foolish trick
to raise thy hand against the Christian knight," said Marsil's calif, seating him once more
upon his throne. "'Twere well to listen to what he hath to say."

"Sir," said Ganelon proudly, "thinkest thou for all the threats in the wide world I will be
silent and not speak the message which the mighty Charlemagne sendeth to his mortal enemy?
Nay, I would speak, if ye were all against me." And keeping his right hand still upon the golden
pommel of his sword, with his left he unclasped his cloak of fur and silk and cast it upon
the steps of the throne. There, in his strength and splendor, he stood defying them all.

"'Tis a noble knight!" cried the heathen in admiration.

Then once more turning to King Marsil, Ganelon gave him the Emperor's letter. As he broke the
seal and read, Marsil's brow grew black with anger. "Listen, my lords," he cried; "because
I slew yonder insolent Christian knights, the Emperor Charlemagne bids me beware his wrath.
He commands that I shall send unto him as hostage mine uncle the calif."

"This is some madness of Ganelon!" cried a heathen knight. "He is only worthy of death. Give
him unto me, and I will see that justice is done upon him." So saying, he laid his hand upon
his sword.

Like a flash of lightning Ganelon's good blade Murglies sprang from its sheath, and with his
back against a tree, the Christian knight prepared to defend himself to the last. But once
again the fight was stopped, and this time Blancandrin led Ganelon away.

Then, walking alone with the King, Blancandrin told of all that he had done, and of how even
upon the way hither, Ganelon had promised to betray Roland, who was Charlemagne's greatest
warrior. "And if he die," said Blancandrin, "then is our peace sure."

"Bring hither the Christian knight to me," cried King Marsil.

So Blancandrin went, and once more leading Ganelon by the hand, brought him before the King.

"Fair Sir Ganelon," said the wily heathen, "I did a rash and foolish thing when in anger I
raised my hand to strike at thee. As a token that thou wilt forget it, accept this cloak of
sable. It is worth five hundred pieces of gold." And lifting a rich cloak, he clasped it about
the neck of Ganelon.

"I may not refuse it," said the knight, looking down. "May Heaven reward thee!"

"Trust me, Sir Ganelon," said King Marsil, "I love thee well. But keep thou our counsels secret.
I would hear thee talk of Charlemagne. He is very old, is he not?--more than two hundred years
old. He must be worn out and weary, for he hath fought so many battles and humbled so many
kings in the dust. He ought to rest now from his labors in his city of Aix."

Ganelon shook his head. "Nay," he said, "such is not Charlemagne. All those who have seen him
know that our Emperor is a true warrior. I know not how to praise him enough before you, for
there is nowhere a man so full of valor and of goodness. I would rather die than leave his
service."

"In truth," said Marsil, "I marvel greatly. I had thought that Charlemagne had been old and
worn. Then if it is not so, when will he cease his wars?"

"Ah," said Ganelon, "that he will never do so long as his nephew Roland lives. Under the arch
of heaven there bides no baron so splendid or so proud. Oliver, his friend, also is full of
prowess and of valor. With them and his peers beside him, Charlemagne feareth no man."

"Fair Sir Ganelon," said King Marsil boldly, knowing his hatred, "tell me, how shall I slay
Roland?"

"That I can tell thee," said Ganelon. "Promise thou the Emperor all that he asketh of thee.
Send hostages and presents to him. He will then return to France. His army will pass through
the valley of Roncesvalles. I will see to it that Roland and his friend Oliver lead the rear-guard.
They will lag behind the rest of the army, then there shalt thou fall upon them with all thy
mighty men. I say not but that thou shalt lose many a knight, for Roland and his peers will
fight right manfully. But in the end, being so many more than they, thou shalt conquer. Roland
shall lie dead, and slaying him thou wilt cut off the right arm of Charlemagne. Then farewell
to the wondrous army of France. Never again shall Charlemagne gather such a company, and within
the borders of Spain there shall be peace for evermore."

When Ganelon had finished speaking, the King threw his arms about his neck and kissed him.
Then turning to his slaves, he commanded them to bring great treasure of gold, and silver and
precious stones, and lay it at the feet of the knight.

"But swear to me," said Marsil, "that Roland shall be in the rear-guard, and swear to me his
death."

And Ganelon, laying his hand upon his sword Murglies, swore by the holy relics therein, that
he would bring Roland to death.

Then came a heathen knight who gave to Ganelon a sword, the hilt of which glittered with gems
so that the eyes were dazzled in looking upon it. "Let but Roland be in the rear-guard," he
said, "and it is thine." Then he kissed Ganelon on both cheeks.

Soon another heathen knight followed him, laughing joyfully. "Here is my helmet," he cried.
"It is the richest and best ever beaten out of steel. It is thine so that thou truly bring
Roland to death and shame." And he, too, kissed Ganelon.

Next came Bramimonde, Marsil's queen. She was very beautiful. Her dark hair was strung with
pearls, and her robes of silk and gold swept the ground. Her hands were full of glittering
gems. Bracelets and necklaces of gold, rubies and sapphires fell from her white fingers. "Take
these," she said, "to thy fair lady. Tell her that Queen Bramimonde sends them to her because
of the great service thou hast done." And bowing low, she poured the sparkling jewels into
Ganelon's hands. Thus did the heathen reward Ganelon for his treachery.

"Ho there!" called King Marsil to his treasurer, "are my gifts for the Emperor ready?"

"Yea, Sire," answered the treasurer, "seven hundred camels' load of silver and gold and twenty
hostages, the noblest of the land; all are ready."

Then King Marsil leant his hand on Ganelon's shoulder. "Wise art thou and brave," he said,
"but in the name of all thou holdest sacred, forget not thy promise unto me. See, I give thee
ten mules laden with richest treasure, and every year I will send to thee as much again. Now
take the keys of my city gates, take the treasure and the hostages made ready for thine Emperor.
Give them all to him, tell him that I yield to him all that he asks, but forget not thy promise
that Roland shall ride in the rear-guard."

Impatient to be gone, Ganelon shook the King's hand from his shoulder. "Let me tarry no longer,"
he cried. Then springing to horse he rode swiftly away.

Meanwhile Charlemagne lay encamped, awaiting Marsil's answer. And as one morning he sat beside
his tent, with his lords and mighty men around him, a great cavalcade appeared in the distance.
And presently Ganelon, the traitor, drew rein before him. Softly and smoothly he began his
treacherous tale. And King Marsil bids me say, thou shalt not blame him that his uncle the
calif comes not too, for he is dead. I myself saw him as he set forth with three hundred thousand
armed men upon the sea. Their vessels sank ere they had gone far from the land, and he and
they were swallowed in the waves." Thus Ganelon told his lying tale.

"Now praised be Heaven!" cried Charlemagne. "And thanks, my trusty Ganelon, for well hast thou
sped. At length my wars are done, and home to gentle France we ride."

So the trumpets were sounded, and soon the great army, with pennons waving and armor glittering
in the sunshine, was rolling onward through the land, like a gleaming mighty river.

But following the Christian army, through valleys deep and dark, by pathways secret and unknown,
crept the heathen host. They were clad in shining steel from head to foot, swords were by their
sides, lances were in their hands, and bitter hatred in their hearts. Four hundred thousand
strong they marched in stealthy silence. And, alas! the Franks knew it not.

When night came the Franks encamped upon the plain. And high upon the mountain-sides, in a
dark forest the heathen kept watch upon them.

In the midst of his army King Charlemagne lay, and as he slept he dreamed he stood alone in
the valley of Roncesvalles, spear in hand. There to him came Ganelon, who seized his spear
and broke it in pieces before his eyes, and the noise of the breaking was as the noise of thunder.
In his sleep Charlemagne stirred uneasily, but he did not wake. The vision passed, and again
he dreamed. It seemed to him that he was now in his own city of Aix. Suddenly from out a forest
a leopard sprang upon him. But even as its fangs closed upon his arm, a faithful hound came
bounding from his hall and fell upon the savage beast with fury. Fiercely the hound grappled
with the leopard. Snarling and growling they rolled over and over. Now the hound was uppermost,
now the leopard. "Tis a splendid fight!" cried the Franks who watched. But who should win,
the Emperor knew not, for the vision faded, and still he slept.

The night passed and dawn came. A thousand trumpets sounded, the camp was all astir, and the
Franks made ready once more to march.

But Charlemagne was grave and thoughtful, musing on the dream that he had dreamed. "My knights
and barons," he said, "mark well the country through which we pass. These valleys are steep
and straight. It would go ill with us did the false Saracen forget his oath, and fall upon
us as we pass. To whom therefore shall I trust the rear-guard that we may march in surety?"

"Give the command to my stepson, Roland, there is none so brave as he," said Ganelon.

As Charlemagne listened he looked at Ganelon darkly. "Thou art a very demon," he said. "What
rage possesseth thee? And if I give command of the rear to Roland, who, then, shall lead the van?"

"There is Ogier the Dane," said Ganelon quickly, "who better?"

Still Charlemagne looked darkly at him. He would not that Roland should hear, for well he knew
his adventurous spirit.

But already Roland had heard. "I ought to love thee well, Sir Stepsire," he cried, "for this
day hast thou named me for honor. I will take good heed that our Emperor lose not the least
of his men, nor charger, palfrey, nor mule that is not paid for by stroke of sword."

"That know I right well," replied Ganelon, "therefore have I named thee."

Then to Charlemagne Roland turned, "Give me the bow of office, Sire, and let me take command,"
he said.

But the Emperor sat with bowed head. In and out of his long white beard he twisted his fingers.
Tears stood in his eyes, and he kept silence. Such was his love for Roland and fear lest evil
should befall him.

Then spoke Duke Naimes, "Give the command unto Roland, Sire; there is none better."

So, silently, Charlemagne held out the bow of office, and kneeling, Roland took it.

Then was Ganelon's wicked heart glad.

"Nephew," said Charlemagne, "half my host I leave with thee."

"Nay, Sire," answered Roland proudly, "twenty thousand only shall remain with me. The rest
of ye may pass onward in all surety, for while I live ye have naught to fear."

Then in his heart Ganelon laughed.

So the mighty army passed onward through the vale of Roncesvalles without doubt or dread, for
did not Roland the brave guard the rear? With him remained Oliver his friend, Turpin, the bold
Archbishop of Rheims, all the peers, and twenty thousand more of the bravest knights of France.

As the great army wound along, the hearts of the men were glad. For seven long years they had
been far from home, and now soon they would see their dear ones again. But the Emperor rode
among them sadly with bowed head. His fingers again twined themselves in his long white beard,
tears once more stood in his eyes. Beside him rode Duke Naimes. "Tell me, Sire," he said, "what
grief oppresseth thee?"

"Alas," said Charlemagne, "by Ganelon France is betrayed. This night I dreamed I saw him break
my lance in twain. And this same Ganelon it is that puts my nephew in the rear-guard. And I,
I have left him in a strange land. If he die, where shall I find such another?"

It was in vain that Duke Naimes tried to comfort the Emperor. He would not be comforted, and
all the hearts of that great company were filled with fearful, boding dread for Roland.

III

ROLAND'S PRIDE

Meanwhile King Marsil was gathering all his host. From far and near came the heathen knights,
all impatient to fight, each one eager to have the honor of slaying Roland with his own hand,
each swearing that none of the twelve peers should ever again see France.

Among them was a great champion called Chernuble. He was huge and ugly and his strength was
such that he could lift with ease a burden which four mules could scarcely carry. His face
was inky black, his lips thick and hideous, and his coarse long hair reached the ground. It
was said that in the land from whence he came, the sun never shone, the rain never fell, and
the very stones were black as coal. He too, swearing that the Franks should die and that France
should perish, joined the heathen host.

Very splendid were the Saracens as they moved along in the gleaming sunshine. Gold and silver
shone upon their armor, pennons of white and purple floated over them, and from a thousand
trumpets sounded their battle-song.

To the ears of the Frankish knights the sound was borne as they rode through the valley of
Roncesvalles.

"Sir Comrade," said Oliver, "it seemeth me there is battle at hand with the Saracen foe."

"Please Heaven it may be so," said Roland. "Our duty is to hold this post for our Emperor.
Let us strike mighty blows, that nothing be said or sung of us in scorn. Let us fight these
heathen for our country and our faith."

As Oliver heard the sounds of battle come nearer, he climbed to the top of the hill, so that
he could see far over the country. There before him he saw the Saracens marching in pride.
Their helmets, inlaid with gold, gleamed in the sun. Gaily painted shields, hauberks of shining
steel, spears and pennons waved and shone, rank upon rank in countless numbers.

Quickly Oliver came down from the hill, and went back to the Frankish army. "I have seen the
heathen," he said to Roland. "Never on earth hath such a host been gathered. They march upon
us many hundred thousand strong, with shield and spear and sword. Such battle as awaiteth us
have we never fought before."

"Let him be accursed who fleeth!" cried the Franks. "There be few among us who fear death."

"It is Ganelon the felon, who hath betrayed us," said Oliver, "let him be accursed."

"Hush thee, Oliver," said Roland; "he is my stepsire. Let us hear no evil of him."

"The heathen are in fearful force," said Oliver, "and our Franks are but few. Friend Roland,
sound upon thy horn. Then will Charlemagne hear and return with all his host to help us."

For round Roland's neck there hung a magic horn of carved ivory. If he blew upon this in case
of need, the sound of it would be carried over hill and dale, far, far onward. If he sounded
it now, Charlemagne would very surely hear, and return from his homeward march.

But Roland would not listen to Oliver. "Nay," he said, "I should indeed be mad to sound upon
my horn. If I call for help, I, Roland, I should lose my fame in all fair France. Nay, I will
not sound, but I shall strike such blows with my good sword Durindal that the blade shall be
red to the gold of the hilt. Our Franks, too, shall strike such blows that the heathen shall
rue the day. I tell thee, they be all dead men."

"Oh Roland, friend, wind thy horn," pleaded Oliver. "To the ear of Charlemagne shall the sound
be borne, and he and all his knights will return to help us."

"Now Heaven forbid that my kin should ever be pointed at in scorn because of me," said Roland,
"or that fair France should fall to such dishonor. No! I will not sound upon my horn, but I
shall strike such blows with my sword Durindal that the blade shall be dyed red in the blood
of the heathen."

In vain Oliver implored. "I see no dishonor shouldst thou wind thy horn," he said, "for I have
beheld the Saracen host. The valleys and the hills and all the plains are covered with them.
They are many and great, and we are but a little company."

"So much the better," cried Roland, "my desire to fight them grows the greater. All the angels
of heaven forbid that France, through me, should lose one jot of fame. Death is better than
dishonor. Let us strike such blows as our Emperor loveth to see."

Roland was rash as Oliver was wise, but both were knights of wondrous courage, and now Oliver
pleaded no more. "Look," he cried, "look where the heathen come! Thou hast scorned, Roland,
to sound thy horn, and our noble men will this day do their last deeds of bravery."

"Hush!" cried Roland, "shame to him who weareth a coward's heart."

And now Archbishop Turpin spurred his horse to a little hill in front of the army. "My lords
and barons," he cried, turning to them, "Charlemagne hath left us here to guard the homeward
march of his army. He is our King, and we are bound to die for him, if so need be. But now,
before ye fight, confess your sins, and pray God to forgive them. If ye die, ye die as martyrs.
In God's great paradise your places await you."

Then the Franks leapt from their horses and kneeled upon the ground while the archbishop blessed
them, and absolved them from all their sins. "For penance I command that ye strike the heathen
full sore," he said.

Then springing from their knees the Franks leapt again into their saddles, ready now to fight
and die.

"Friend," said Roland, turning to Oliver, "thou wert right. It is Ganelon who is the traitor.
But the Emperor will avenge us upon him. As for Marsil, he deemeth that he hath bought us,
and that Ganelon hath sold us unto him. But he will find it is with our swords that we will
pay him."

And now the battle began. "Montjoie!" shouted the Franks. It was the Emperor's own battle-cry.
It means "My joy," and came from the name of his famous sword Joyeuse or joyous. This sword
was the most wonderful ever seen. Thirty times a day the shimmering light with which it glowed
changed. In the gold of the hilt was encased the head of the spear with which the side of Christ
had been pierced. And because of this great honor the Emperor called his sword Joyeuse, and
from that the Franks took their battle-cry "Montjoie." Now shouting it, and plunging spurs
into their horses' sides, they dashed upon the foe. Never before had been such pride of chivalry,
such splendor of knightly grace.

With boasting words, King Marsil's nephew came riding in front of the battle. "Ho, felon Franks!"
he cried, "ye are met at last. Betrayed and sold are ye by your King. This day hath France
lost her fair fame, and from Charlemagne is his right hand torn."

Roland heard him. With spur in side and slackened rein, he dashed upon the heathen, mad with
rage. Through shield and hauberk pierced his spear, and the Saracen fell dead ere his scoffing
words were done. "Thou dastard!" cried Roland, "no traitor is Charlemagne, but a right noble
king and cavalier."

King Marsil's brother, sick at heart to see his nephew fall, rode out with mocking words upon
his lips. "This day is the honor of France lost," he sneered.

But Oliver struck his golden spurs into his steed's side! "Caitiff, thy taunts are little worth,"
he cried, and, pierced through shield and buckler, the heathen fell.

Bishop Turpin, too, wielded both sword and lance. "Thou lying coward, be silent evermore!"
he cried, as a scoffing heathen king fell beneath his blows. "Charlemagne our lord is true
and good, and no Frank shall flee this day."

"Montjoie! Montjoie!" sounded high above the clang of battle, as heathen after heathen was
laid low. Limbs were lopped, armor flew in splinters. Many a heathen knight was cloven from
brow to saddle bow. The plain was strewn with the dying and the dead.

In Roland's hand his lance was shivered to the haft. Throwing the splintered wood away, he
drew his famous Durindal. The naked blade shone in the sun and fell upon the helmet of Chernuble,
Marsil's mighty champion. The sparkling gems with which it shone were scattered on the grass.
Through cheek and chine, through flesh and bone, drove the shining steel, and Chernuble fell
upon the ground, a black and hideous heap. "Lie there, caitiff!" cried Roland, "thy Mahomet
cannot save thee. Not unto such as thou is the victory."

On through the press rode Roland. Durindal flashed and fell and flashed again, and many a heathen
bit the dust. Oliver, too, did marvelous deeds. His spear, as Roland's, was shivered into atoms.
But scarcely knowing what he did, he fought still with the broken shaft, and with it brought
many a heathen to his death.

"Comrade, what dost thou?" said Roland. "Is it now the time to fight with staves? Where is
thy sword called Hauteclere with its crystal pommel and golden guard?"

"I lacked time in which to draw it," replied Oliver, "there was such need to strike blows fast
and hard."

But now he drew his shining Hauteclere from its scabbard, and with it he dealt such blows that
Roland cried, "My brother art thou, Oliver, from henceforth. Ah! such blows our Emperor would
dearly love to see."

Furious and more furious waxed the fight. On all sides might be heard the cry of "Montjoie!
Montjoie!" and many a blow did Frank and heathen give and take. But although thousands of Saracens
lay dead, the Franks too had lost many of their bravest knights. Shield and spear, banner and
pennon, broken, bloodstained and trampled, strewed the field.

Fiercer, wilder still, the battle grew. Roland, Oliver, Archbishop Turpin and all the twelve
peers of France fought in the thickest of the press. Many of the heathen fled, but even in
flight they were cut down.

Meanwhile over France burst a fearful storm. Thunder rolled, lightning flashed, the very earth
shook and trembled. There was not a town in all the land but the walls of it were cracked and
riven. The sky grew black at midday, rain and hail in torrents swept the land. "It is the end
of the world," the people whispered in trembling fear.

Alas, they knew not! It was the earth's great mourning for the death of Roland, which was nigh.

The battle waxed horrible. The Saracens fled, and the Franks pursued till of that great heathen
host but one was left. Of the Saracen army which had set out in such splendor, four hundred
thousand strong, one heathen king alone remained. And he, King Margaris, sorely wounded, his
spear broken, his shield pierced and battered, fled with the direful news to King Marsil.

The Franks had won the day, and now mournfully over the plain they moved, seeking their dead
and dying comrades. Weary men and worn were they, sad at the death of many brother knights,
yet glad at the might and victory of France.

IV

ROLAND SOUNDS HIS HORN

Alone, King Margaris fled, weary and wounded, until he reached King Marsil, and fell panting
at his feet.

"Ride! ride! Sire," he cried, "thy army is shattered, thy knights to the last man lie dead
upon the field; but thou wilt find the Franks in evil plight. Full half of them also lie dead.
The rest are sore wounded and weary. Their armor is broken, their swords and spears are shattered.
They have naught wherewith to defend themselves. To avenge the death of thy knights were now
easy. Ride! oh, ride!"

In terrible wrath and sorrow King Marsil gathered a new army. In twenty columns through the
valleys they came marching. The sun shone upon the gems and goldwork of their helmets, upon
lances and pennons, upon buckler and embroidered surcoat. Seven thousand trumpets sounded to
the charge, and the wind carried the clamor afar.

"Oliver, my comrade," said Roland, when he heard it, "Oliver, my brother, the traitor Ganelon
hath sworn our death. Here his treachery is plainly to be seen. But the Emperor will bring
upon him a terrible vengeance. As for us, we must fight again a battle fierce and keen. I will
strike with my trusty Durindal and thou with thy Hauteclere bright. We have already carried
them with honor in many battles. With them we have won many a victory. No man may say scorn of us."

And so once again the Franks made ready for battle.

But King Marsil was a wily foe. "Hearken, my barons all," he cried, "Roland is a prince of
wondrous strength. Two battles are not enough to vanquish him. He shall have three. Half of
ye shall go forward now, and half remain with me until the Franks are utterly exhausted. Then
shall ye attack them. Then shall we see the day when the might of Charlemagne shall fall and
France shall perish in shame."

So King Marsil stayed upon the hillside while half of his knights marched upon the Franks with
battle-cry and trumpet-call.

"Oh Heaven, what cometh now!" cried the Franks as they heard the sound. "Wo, wo, that ever
we saw Ganelon the felon."

Then spoke the brave archbishop to them. "Now it is certain that we shall die. But it is better
to die sword in hand than in slothful ease. Now is the day when ye shall receive great honor.
Now is the day that ye shall win your crown of flowers. The gates of paradise are glorious,
but therein no coward shall enter."

"We will not fail to enter," cried the Franks. "It is true that we are but few, but we are
bold and stanch," and striking their golden spurs into their chargers' flanks, they rode to
meet the foe.

Once more the noise and dust of battle rose. Once more the plain was strewn with dead, and
the green grass was crimson-dyed, and scattered wide were jewels and gold, splintered weapons,
and shattered armor.

Fearful was the slaughter, mighty the deeds of valor done, until at last the heathen broke
and fled amain. After them in hot pursuit rode the Franks. Their bright swords flashed and
fell again and again, and all the way was marked with dead.

At length the heathen cries of despair reached even to where King Marsil stayed upon the hillside.
"Marsil, oh our King! ride, ride, we have need of thee!" they cried.

Even to the King's feet the Franks pursued the fleeing foe, slaying them before his face.

Then Marsil, mounting upon his horse, led his last knights against the fearful foe.

The Franks were nigh exhausted, but still three hundred swords flashed in the sunlight, three
hundred hearts still beat with hope and courage.

As Roland watched Oliver ever in the thickest of the fight, dealing blow upon blow unceasingly,
his heart swelled anew with love for him. "Oh, my comrade leal and true," he cried, "alas!
this day shall end our love. Alas! this day we shall part on earth for ever."

Oliver heard him and through the press of fighting he urged his horse to Roland's side. "Friend,"
he said, "keep near to me. So it please God we shall at least die together."

On went the fight, fiercer and fiercer yet, till but sixty weary Franks were left. Then, sadly
gazing upon the stricken field, Roland turned to Oliver. "Behold! our bravest lie dead," he
cried. "Well may France weep, for she is shorn of all her most valiant knights. Oh my Emperor,
my friend, alas, why wert thou not here? Oliver, my brother, how shall we speed him now our
mournful news?"

"I know not," said Oliver sadly, "rather come death now than any craven deed."

"I will sound upon my horn," said Roland, all his pride broken and gone. "I will sound upon
my horn. Charlemagne will hear it and the Franks will return to our aid."

"Shame would that be," cried Oliver. "Our kin would blush for us and be dishonored all their
days. When I prayed of thee thou wouldst not sound thy horn, and now it is not I who will consent
to it. Sound upon thy horn! No! there is no courage, no wisdom in that now. Had the Emperor
been here we had been saved. But now it is too late, for all is lost. Nay," he cried in rising
wrath, "if ever I see again my fair sister Aude, I swear to thee thou shalt never hold her
in thine arms. Never shall she be bride of thine." For Roland loved Oliver's beautiful sister
Aude and was loved by her, and when Roland would return to France she had promised to be his bride.

"Ah, Oliver, why dost thou speak to me with so much anger and hate," cried Roland sadly.

"Because it is thy fault that so many Franks lie dead this day," answered Oliver. "It is thy
folly that hath slain them. Hadst thou done as I prayed thee our master Charlemagne had been
here. This battle had been fought and won. Marsil had been taken and slain. Thy madness it
is, Roland, that hath wrought our fate. Henceforward we can serve Charlemagne never more. And
now here endeth our loyal friendship. Oh, bitter the parting this night shall see."

With terrible grief in his heart, stricken dumb with misery and pain, Roland gazed upon his
friend. But Archbishop Turpin had heard the strife between the two, and setting spurs to his
horse he rode swiftly towards them. "Sir Roland, and you, Sir Oliver," he cried, "I pray you
strive not thus. See! we all must die, and thy horn, Roland, can avail nothing now. Great Karl
is too far and would return too late. Yet it were well to sound it. For the Emperor when he
hears it will come to avenge our fall, and the heathen will not return joyously to their homes.
When the Franks come, they will alight from their horses, they will find our bodies, and will
bury them with mourning and with tears, so we shall rest in hallowed graves, and the beasts
of the field shall not tear our bones asunder."

"It is well said," cried Roland.

Then to his lips he laid his horn, and taking a deep breath he blew mightily upon it. With
all the strength left in his weary body he blew.

Full, and clear, and high the horn sounded. From mountain peak to mountain peak the note was
echoed, till to the camp of Charlemagne, full thirty leagues away, it came.

Then as he heard it, sweet and faint, borne upon the summer wind, the Emperor drew rein, and
bent his ear to listen. "Our men give battle; it is the horn of Roland," he cried.

"Nay," laughed Ganelon scornfully, "nay, Sire, had any man but thee said it I had deemed he lied."

So slowly and sad at heart, with many a backward glance, the Emperor rode on.

Again Roland put his horn to his mouth. He was weary now and faint. Blood was upon his pale
lips, the blue veins in his temples stood out like cords. Very mournfully he blew upon his
horn, but the sound of it was carried far, very far, although it was so feeble and so low.

Again to the soft, sweet note Charlemagne bent his ear. Duke Naimes, too, and all the Frankish
knights, paused at the sound. "It is the horn of Roland," cried the Emperor, "and very surely
had there been no battle, he had not sounded it."

"There is no battle," said Ganelon in fretful tones. "Thou art grown old and fearful. Thou
talkest as a frightened child. Well thou knowest the pride of Roland, the strong, bold, great
and boastful Roland, that God hath suffered so long upon His earth. For one hare Roland would
sound his horn all day long. Doubtless now he laughs among his peers. And besides, who would
dare to attack Roland? Who so bold? Of a truth there is none. Ride on, Sire, ride on. Why halt?
Our fair land is still very far in front."

So again, yet more unwillingly, the Emperor rode on.

Crimson-stained were the lips of Roland. His cheeks were sunken and white, yet once again he
raised his horn. Faintly now, in sadness and in anguish, once again he blew. The soft, sweet
notes took on a tone so pitiful, they wrung the very heart of Charlemagne, where, full thirty
leagues afar, he onward rode.

"That horn is very long of breath," he sighed, looking backward anxiously.

"It is Roland," cried Duke Naimes. "It is Roland who suffers yonder. On my soul, I swear, there
is battle. Some one hath betrayed him. If I mistake not, it is he who now deceives thee. Arm,
Sire, arm! Sound the trumpets of war. Long enough hast thou hearkened to the plaint of Roland."

Quickly the Emperor gave command. Quickly the army turned about, and came marching backward.
The evening sunshine fell upon their pennons of crimson, gold and blue, it gleamed upon helmet
and corslet, upon lance and shield. Fiercely rode the knights. "Oh, if we but reach Roland
before he die," they cried, "oh, what blows we will strike for him."

Alas! alas! they are late, too late!

The evening darkened, night came, yet on they rode. Through all the night they rode, and when
at length the rising sun gleamed like flame upon helmet, and hauberk and flowing pennon, they
still pressed onward.

Foremost the Emperor rode, sunk in sad thought, his fingers twisted in his long white beard
which flowed over his cuirass, his eyes filled with tears. Behind him galloped his knights--strong
men though they were, every one of them with a sob in his throat, a prayer in his heart, for
Roland, Roland the brave and fearless.

One knight only had anger in his heart. That knight was Ganelon. And he by order of the Emperor
had been given over to the keeping of the kitchen knaves. Calling the chief among them, "Guard
me well this felon," said Charlemagne, "guard him as a traitor, who hath sold all mine house
to death."

Then the chief scullion and a hundred of his fellows surrounded Ganelon. They plucked him by
the hair and buffeted him, each man giving him four sounding blows. Around his neck they then
fastened a heavy chain, and leading him as one might lead a dancing bear, they set him upon
a common baggage-horse. Thus they kept him until the time should come that Charlemagne would
ask again for the felon knight.

V

THE RETURN OF CHARLEMAGNE

Roland was dead and bright angels had already carried his soul to heaven, when Charlemagne
and all his host at last rode into the valley of Roncesvalles. What a dreadful sight was there!
Not a path nor track, not a yard nor foot of ground but was covered with slain Franks and heathen
lying side by side in death.

Charlemagne gazed upon the scene with grief and horror. "Where art thou, Roland?" he called.
"The archbishop, where is he? Oliver, where art thou?" All the twelve peers he called by name.
But none answered. The wind moaned over the field, fluttering here and there a fallen banner,
but voice to answer there was none.

"Alas," sighed Charlemagne, "what sorrow is mine that I was not here ere this battle was fought!"

In and out of his long white beard his fingers twisted, and tears of grief and anger stood
in his eyes. Behind him, rank upon rank, crowded his knights and barons full of wrath and sorrow.
Not one among them but had lost a son or brother, a friend or comrade. For a time they stood
dumb with grief and horror.

Then spoke Duke Naimes. Wise in counsel, brave in battle was he. "Look, Sire," he cried, "look
where two leagues from us the dust arises upon the great highway. There is gathered the army
of the heathen. Ride, Sire, ride and avenge our wrongs."

And so it was, for those who had fled from the battle-field were gathered together and were
now crowding onward to Saragossa.

"Alas!" said Charlemagne, "they are already far away. Yet they have taken from me the very
flower of France, so for the sake of right and honor I will do as thou desirest."

Then the Emperor called to him four of his chief barons. "Rest here," he said, "guard the field,
the valleys and the hills. Leave the dead lying as they are, but watch well that neither lion
nor any other savage beast come nigh to them. Neither shall any servant or squire touch them.
I forbid ye to let man lay hand upon them till we return."

"Sire we will do thy will," answered the four.

Then, leaving a thousand knights to be with them, Charlemagne sounded his war trumpets, and
the army set forth upon the pursuit of the heathen. Furiously they rode and fast, but already
the foe was far. Anxiously the Emperor looked to the sun as it slowly went down toward the
west. Night was at hand and the enemy still afar.

Then, alighting from his horse, Charlemagne kneeled upon the green grass. "Oh Lord, I pray
thee," he cried, "make the sun to stop. Say thou to the night, 'wait.' Say thou to the day,
'remain.'" And as the Emperor prayed, his guardian angel stooped down and whispered to him,
"Ride onward, Charlemagne! Light shall not fail thee. Thou hast lost the flower of France.
The Lord knoweth it right well. But thou canst now avenge thee upon the wicked. Ride!"

Hearing these words, Charlemagne sprang once more to horse and rode onward.

And truly a miracle was done for him. The sun stood motionless in the sky, the heathen fled,
the Franks pursued, until in the Valley of Darkness they fell upon them and beat them with
great slaughter. The heathen still fled, but the Franks surrounded them, closing every path,
and in front flowed the river Ebro wide and deep. Across it there was no bridge, upon it no
boat, no barge. Calling upon their gods Tervagan and Apollin and upon Mahomet to save them,
the heathen threw themselves into the water. But there no safety they found. Many, weighted
with their heavy armor, sank beneath the waves. Others, carried by the tide, were swept away,
and all were drowned, King Marsil alone fleeing towards Saragossa.

When Charlemagne saw that all his enemies were slain, he leapt from his horse, and, kneeling
upon the ground, gave thanks to Heaven. And even as he rose from his knees the sun went down
and all the land was dim in twilight.

"Now is the hour of rest," said the Emperor. "It is too late to return to Roncesvalles, for
our steeds are weary and exhausted. Take off their saddles and their bridles, and let them
refresh themselves upon the field."

"Sire, it is well said," replied the Franks.

So the knights, leaping from their horses, took saddle and bridle from them, and let them wander
free upon the green meadows by the river-side. Then, being very weary, the Franks lay down
upon the grass, all dressed as they were in their armor, and with their swords girded to their
sides, and slept. So worn were they with battle and with grief, that none that night kept watch,
but all alike slept.

The Emperor too slept upon the ground among his knights and barons. Like them he lay in his
armor. And his good sword Joyeuse was girt about him.

The night was clear and the moon shone brightly. And Charlemagne, lying on the grass, thought
bitterly of Roland and of Oliver, and of all the twelve peers of France who lay dead upon the
field of Roncesvalles. But at last, overcome with grief and weariness, he fell asleep.

As the Emperor slept, he dreamed. He thought he saw the sky grow black with thunder-clouds,
then jagged lightning flashed and flamed, hail fell and wild winds howled. Such a storm the
earth had never seen, and suddenly in all its fury it burst upon his army. Their lances were
wrapped in flame, their shields of gold were melted, hauberks and helmets were crushed to pieces.
Then bears and wolves from out the forests sprang upon the dismayed knights, devouring them.
Monsters untold, serpents, fiery fiends, and more than thirty thousand griffins, all rushed
upon the Franks with greedy, gaping jaws.

"Arm! arm! Sire," they cried to him. And Charlemagne, in his dream, struggled to reach his
knights. But something, he knew not what, held him bound and helpless. Then from out the depths
of the forest a lion rushed upon him. It was a fierce, terrible, and proud beast. It seized
upon the Emperor, and together they struggled, he fighting with his naked hands. Who would
win, who would be beaten, none knew, for the dream passed and the Emperor still slept.

Again Charlemagne dreamed. He stood, he thought, upon the marble steps of his great palace
of Aix holding a bear by a double chain. Suddenly out of the forest there came thirty other
bears to the foot of the steps where Charlemagne stood. They all had tongues and spoke like
men. "Give him back to us, Sire," they said, "he is our kinsman, and we must help him. It is
not right that thou shouldest keep him so long from us."

Then from out the palace there came a hound. Bounding among the savage beasts he threw himself
upon the largest of them. Over and over upon the grass they rolled, fighting terribly. Who
would be the victor, who the vanquished? Charlemagne could not tell. The vision passed, and
he slept till daybreak.

As the first dim light of dawn crept across the sky, Charlemagne awoke. Soon all the camp was
astir, and before the sun rose high the knights were riding back over the wide roads to Roncesvalles.

When once again they reached the dreadful field, Charlemagne wandered over all the plain until
he came where Roland lay. Then taking him in his arms he made great moan. "My friend, my Roland,
who shall now lead my army? My nephew, beautiful and brave, my pride, my glory, all are gone.
Alas the day! alas!" Thus with tears and cries he mourned his loss.

Then said one, "Sire, grieve not overmuch. Command rather that we search the plain and gather
together all our men who have been slain by the heathen. Then let us bury them with chant,
and song and solemn ceremony, as befits such heroes."

"Yea," said Charlemagne, "it is well said. Sound your trumpets!"

So the trumpets were sounded, and over all the field the Franks searched, gathering their slain
brothers and comrades.

With the army there were many bishops, abbots and monks, and so with chant and hymn, with prayer
and incense, the Franks were laid to rest. With great honor they were buried. Then, for they
could do no more, their comrades left them.

Only the bodies of Roland, Oliver and Archbishop Turpin, they did not lay in Spanish ground.
In three white marble coffins covered with silken cloths they were placed on chariots, ready
to be carried back to the fair land of France.

II

THE KNIGHTING OF RODRIGO

Now it came to pass that while the King lay before Coimbra, there came a pilgrim from the land
of Greece on pilgrimage to Santiago; his name was Estiano, and he was a bishop. And as he was
praying in the church he heard certain of the townsmen and of the pilgrims saying that Santiago
was wont to appear in battle like a knight, in aid of the Christians. And when he heard this,
it nothing pleased him, and he said unto them, "Friends, call him not a knight, but rather
a fisherman." Upon this it pleased God that he should fall asleep, and in his sleep Santiago
appeared to him with a good and cheerful countenance, holding in his hand a bunch of keys,
and said unto him, "Thou thinkest it a fable that they should call me a knight, and sayest
that I am not so: for this reason am I come unto thee that thou never more mayest doubt concerning
my knighthood; for a knight of Jesus Christ I am, and a helper of the Christians against the
Moors."

Then a horse was brought him the which was exceeding white, and the apostle Santiago mounted
upon it, being well clad in bright and fair armor, after the manner of a knight. And he said
to Estiano, "I go to help King Don Ferrando, who has lain these seven months before Coimbra,
and to-morrow, with these keys which thou seest, will I open the gates of the city unto him
at the third hour, and deliver it into his hand." Having said this, he departed. And the bishop,
when he woke in the morning, called together the clergy and people of Compostella, and told
them what he had seen and heard. And as he said, even so did it come to pass; for tidings came,
that on that day, and at the third hour, the gates of the city had been opened.

King Don Ferrando then assembled his counts and chief captains, and told them all that the
monks of Lorvam had done, in bringing him to besiege the city, and in supplying his army in
their time of need: and the counts and chief captains made answer and said, "Certes, O King,
if the monks had not given us the stores of their monastery, thou couldest not have taken the
city at this time." The King then called for the abbot and the brethren, for they were with
him in the host, and said the hours to him daily, and mass in St. Andre's, and buried there
and in their monastery as many as had died during the siege, either of arrow-wounds or by lances,
or of their own infirmities. So they came before him and gave him joy of his conquest; and
he said unto them, "Take ye now of this city as much as ye desire, since by God's favor and
your counsel I have won it." But they made answer, "Thanks be to God and to you, and to your
forefathers, we have enough and shall have, if so be that we have your favor and dwell among
Christians. Only for the love of God, and for the remedy of your own soul, give us one church
with its dwelling-houses within the city, and confirm unto us the gifts made to us in old times
by your forefathers."

With that the King turned to his sons and his soldiers, and said, "Of a truth, by our Creator,
they who desire so little are men of God. I would have given them half the city, and they will
have only a single church! Now therefore, since they require but this, on the part of God Almighty
let us grant and confirm unto them what they ask, to the honor of God and St. Mamede." And
the brethren brought him their charters of King Ramiro, and King Bermudo, and King Alfonso,
and of Gonzalo Moniz, who was a knight and married a daughter of King Bermudo, and of other
good men. And the King confirmed them, and he bade them make a writing of all which had passed
between him and them at the siege of Coimbra; and when they brought him the writing, they brought
him also a crown of silver and of gold, which had been King Bermudo's, and which Gonzalo Moniz
had given to the monastery in honor of God and St. Mamede.

The King saw the crown, set with precious stones, and said, "To what end bring ye hither this
crown?" And they said, "That you should take it, sire, in return for the good which you have
done us." But he answered, "Far be it from me that I should take from your monastery what the
good men before me have given to it! Take ye back the crown, and take also ten marks of silver,
and make with the money a good cross, to remain with you forever. And he who shall befriend
you, may God befriend him; but he who shall disturb you or your monastery, may he be cursed
by the living God and by his saints." So the King signed the writing which he had commanded
to be made, and his sons and chief captains signed it also, and in the writing he enjoined
his children and his children's children, as many as should come after him, to honor and protect
the monastery of Lorvam; upon his blessing he charged them so to do, because he had found the
brethren better than all the other monks in his dominions.

Then King Don Ferrando knighted Rodrigo of Bivar in the great mosque of Coimbra, which he dedicated
to St. Mary. And the ceremony was after this manner: the King girded on his sword, and gave
him the kiss, but not the blow. To do him honor the Queen gave him his horse, and the Infanta
Dona Urraca fastened on his spurs; and from that day forth he was called Ruydiez. But during
the siege he had come to the King's service, and bestirred himself well against the Moors;
and therefore the King took him into his favor, and gave him the city to keep, which he kept,
and did much evil to the Moors till the day of his death. And the King departed and went to
Compostella, to return thanks to Santiago.

But then Benalfagi, who was the lord of many lands in Estremadura, gathered together a great
power of the Moors and built up the walls of Montemor, and from thence waged war against Coimbra,
so that they of Coimbra called upon the King for help. And the King came up against the town,
and fought against it, and took it. Great honor did Ruydiez win at that siege; for having to
protect the foragers, the enemy came out upon him, and thrice in one day was he beset by them;
but he, though sorely pressed by them, and in great peril, nevertheless would not send to the
camp for succor, but put forth his manhood and defeated them. And from that day che King gave
more power into his hands, and made him head over all his household.

Now the men of Leon besought the King that he should repeople Zamora, which had lain desolate
since it was destroyed by Almanzor. And he went thither and peopled the city, and gave to it
good privileges. And while he was there came messengers from the five kings who were vassals
to Ruydiez of Bivar, bringing him their tribute; and they came to him, he being with the King,
and called him Cid, which signifieth lord, and would have kissed his hands, but he would not
give them his hand till they had kissed the hand of the King. And Ruydiez took the tribute
and offered the fifth thereof to the King, in token of his sovereignty; and the King thanked
him, but would not receive it; and from that time he ordered that Ruydiez should be called
the Cid, because the Moors had so called him. Then resolved he in his heart to do better than
he had done heretofore.

IV

HOW THE CID RULED VALENCIA

On the following day after the Christians had taken possession of the town, the Cid entered
it with a great company, and he ascended the highest tower of the wall and beheld all the city;
and the Moors came unto him, and kissed his hand, saying he was welcome. And the Cid did great
honor unto them. And then he gave order that all the windows of the towers which looked in
upon the town should be closed up, that the Christians might not see what the Moors did in
their houses; and the Moors thanked him for this greatly. And he commanded and requested the
Christians that they should show great honor to the Moors, and respect them, and greet them
when they met: and the Moors thanked the Cid greatly for the honor which the Christians did
them, saying that they had never seen so good a man, nor one so honorable, nor one who had
his people under such obedience.

Now Abeniaf thought to have the love of the Cid; and calling to mind the wrath with which he
had formerly been received, because he had not taken a gift with him, he took now great riches
which he had taken from those who sold bread for so great a price during the siege of Valencia,
and this he carried to the Cid as a present. Among those who had sold it were some men from
the islands of Majorca, and he took from them all that they had. This the Cid knew, and he
would not accept his gifts. And the Cid caused proclamation to be made in the town and throughout
the whole district thereof, that the honorable men and knights and castellans should assemble
together in the garden of Villa Nueva, where the Cid at that time sojourned. And when they
were all assembled, he went out unto them, to a place which was made ready with carpets and
with mats, and he made them take their seats before him full honorable, and began to speak
unto them, saying: "I am a man who have never possessed a kingdom, neither I nor any man of
my lineage. But the day when I first beheld this city I was well pleased therewith, and coveted
it that I might be its lord; and I besought the Lord our God that he would give it me. See
now what his power is, for the day when I sat down before Juballa I had no more than four loaves
of bread, and now by God's mercy I have won Valencia.

"If I administer right and justice here, God will let me enjoy it; if I do evil, and demean
myself proudly and wrongfully, I know that he will take it away. Now then, let every one go
to his own lands, and possess them even as he was wont to have and to hold them. He who shall
find his field, or his vineyard, or his garden, desert, let him incontinently enter thereon;
and he who shall find his husbanded, let him pay him that hath cultivated it the cost of his
labor, and of the seed which he hath sown therein, and remain with his heritage, according
to the law of the Moors. Moreover, I have given order that they who collect my dues take from
you no more than the tenth, because so it is appointed by the custom of the Moors, and it is
what ye have been wont to pay. And I have resolved in my heart to hear your complaints two
days in the week, on the Monday and the Thursday; but if causes should arise which require
haste, come to me when ye will and I will give judgment, for I do not retire with women to
sing and to drink, as your lords have done, so that ye could obtain no justice, but will myself
see to these things, and watch over ye as friend over his friend, and kinsman over his kinsman.
And I will be cadi and guazil, and when dispute happens among ye I will decide it." When he
had said these things, they all replied that they prayed God to preserve him through long and
happy years; and four of the most honorable among them arose and kissed his hands, and the
Cid bade them take their seats again.

Then the Cid spake unto them and said: "It is told me that Abeniaf hath done much evil, and
committed great wrong toward some of ye, in that he hath taken great riches from ye to present
them to me, saying, that this he did because ye sold food for a great price during the siege.
But I will accept no such gift; for if I were minded to have your riches, I could take them,
and need not ask them neither from him, nor from any other; but thing so unseemly as to take
that which is his from any one, without just cause, I will not do. They who have gotten wealth
thus, God hath given it them; let them go to Abeniaf, and take back what he hath forced from
them, for I will order him to restore the whole." Then he said, "Ye see the riches which I
took from the messengers who went to Murcia; it is mine by right, for I took it in war because
they brake the covenant which they had made, and would have deceived me: nevertheless I will
restore it to the uttermost centesimo, that nothing thereof shall be lost. And ye shall do
homage to me that ye will not withdraw yourselves, but will abide here, and do my bidding in
all things, and never depart from the covenant which ye make with me; for I love ye, and am
grieved to think of the great evil and misery which ye endured from the great famine, and of
the mortality which there was. And if ye had done that before which ye have done now, ye would
not have been brought to these sufferings and have bought the cafiz of wheat at a thousand
maravedis; but I trust in God to bring it to one maravedi. Be ye now secure in your lands,
and till your fields, and rear cattle; for I have given order to my men that they offer ye
no wrong, neither enter into the town to buy nor to sell; but that they carry on all their
dealings in Alcudia, and this I do that ye may receive no displeasure. Moreover I command them
not to take any captive into the town, but if this should be done, lay ye hands on the captive
and set him free, without fear, and if any one should resist, kill him and fear not. I myself
will not enter your city nor dwell therein, but I will build me a place beside the bridge of
Alcantara, where I may go and disport myself at times, and repair when it is needful." When
he had said these things he bade them go their way.

Well pleased were the Moors when they departed from him, and they marveled at the greatness
of his promises, and they set their hearts at rest, and put away the fear which they had had,
thinking all their troubles were over; for in all the promises which the Cid had made unto
them, they believed that he spake truth; but he said these things only to quiet them, and to
make them come to what he wished, even as came to pass. And when he had done, he sent his Almoxarife,
Abdalla Adiz, to the custom-house, and made him appoint men to collect the rents of the town
for him, which was done accordingly. And when the Cid had given order concerning his own affairs
at his pleasure, the Moors would fain have entered again into possession of their heritages
as he told them; but they found it all otherwise, for of all the fields which the Christians
had husbanded, they would not yield up one; albeit they let them enter upon such as were left
waste: some said that the Cid had given them the lands that year, instead of their pay, and
other some that they rented them and had paid rent for the year.

The Moors waited till Thursday, when the Cid was to hear complaints, as he had said unto them.
When Thursday came all the honorable men went to the garden, but the Cid sent to say unto them
that he could not come out that day, because of other causes which he had to determine; and
he desired that they would go their way for that time, and come again on the Monday: this was
to show his mastery. And when it was Monday they assembled again in the garden, and the Cid
came out to them, and took his seat upon the estrado, and the Moors made their complaint. And
when he had heard them he began to make similitudes, and offer reasons which were not like
those which he had spoken the first day; for he said to them, "I ask of ye, whether it is well
that I should be left without men? or if I were without them, I should be like unto one who
hath lost his right arm, or to a bird that hath no wings, or to one who should do battle and
hath neither spear nor sword. The first thing which I have to look to is to the well-being
of my people, that they may live in wealth and honor, so that they may be able to serve me,
and defend my honor: for since it has pleased God to give me the city of Valencia, I will not
that there be any other lord here than me. Therefore I say unto you and command you, if you
would be well with me, and would that I should show favor unto you, that ye see how to deliver
that traitor Abeniaf into my hands. Ye all know the great treason which he committed upon King
Yahia, his lord and yours, how he slew him, and the misery which he brought upon you in the
siege; and since it is not fitting that a traitor who hath slain his lord should live among
you, and that his treason should be confounded with your loyalty, see to the obeyment of my
command."

When the honorable Moors heard this, they were dismayed; verily they knew that he spake truth
touching the death of the King, but it troubled them that he departed form the promise which
he had made; and they made answer that they would take counsel concerning what he had said,
and then reply. Then five of the best and most honorable among them withdrew, and went to Abdalla
Adiz, and said unto him, "Give us thy counsel now the best and truest that thou canst, for
thou art of our law, and oughtest to do this: and the reason why we ask counsel of thee is
this. The Cid promised us many things, and now behold he says nothing to us of what he said
before, but moveth other new reasons, at which great dismay hath seized us. And because thou
better knowest his ways, tell us now what is his pleasure, for albeit we might wish to do otherwise,
this is not a time wherein anything but what he shall command can be done." When the Almoxarife
heard this he made answer, "Good men, it is easy to understand what he would have, and to do
what should be done. We all know the great treason which Abeniaf committed against ye all in
killing your lord the King; for albeit at that time ye felt the burden of the Christians, yet
was it nothing so great as after he had killed him, neither did ye suffer such misery. And
since God hath brought him who was the cause to this state, see now by all means how ye may
deliver him into the hands of the Cid; and fear not, neither take thought for the rest; for
though the Cid may do his pleasure in some things, better is it to have him for lord than this
traitor who hath brought so much evil upon ye. Moreover the things of this world soon pass
away, and my heart tells me that we shall ere long come out of the bondage of the Cid, and
of the Christians; for the Cid is well-nigh at the full of his days, and we who remain alive
after his death shall then be masters of our city."

The good men thanked him much, and held themselves to be well advised, and said that they would
do willingly what he bade them; and they returned forthwith to the Cid, and said unto him that
they would fulfill his commandment. Incontinently did the good men dispeed themselves of the
Cid, and they went into the city, and gathered together a great posse of armed men, and went
to the place where Abeniaf dwelt; and they assaulted the house and brake the doors, and entered
in and laid hands on him, and his son, and all his company, and carried them before the Cid.
And the Cid ordered Abeniaf to be cast into prison, and all those who had taken counsel with
him for the death of King Yahia.

When this was done, the Cid said unto the good men, "Now that ye have fulfilled my bidding,
I hold it good to show favor unto you in that which ye yourselves shall understand to be fitting
for me to grant. Say therefore what ye would have, and I will do that which I think behooveth
me: but in this manner, that my dwelling-place be within the city of Valencia, in the Alcazar,
and that my Christian men have all the fortresses in the city." And when the good men heard
this, they were greatly troubled; howbeit they dissembled the sorrow which they resented, and
said unto him, "Sir Cid, order it as you think good, and we consent thereto." Then said he
unto them that he would observe towards them all the uses and customs of their law, and that
he would have the power, and be lord of all; and they should till their fields and feed their
flocks and herds, and give him his tenth, and he would take no more.

When the Moors heard this they were pleased; and since they were to remain in the town, and
in their houses and their inheritances, and with their uses and customs, and that their mosques
were to be left them, they held themselves not to be badly off. Then they asked the Cid to
let their guazil be the same as he had first appointed, and that he would give them for their
cadi the Alfaqui Alhagi, and let him appoint whom he would to assist him in distributing justice
to the Moors; and thus he himself would be relieved of the wearisomeness of hearing them, save
only when any great occasion might befall. And the Cid granted this which they required, and
they kissed his hand, and returned into the town. Nine months did the Cid hold Valencia besieged,
and at the end of that time it fell into his power, and he obtained possession of the walls,
as ye have heard. And one month he was practising with the Moors that he might keep them quiet,
till Abeniaf was delivered into his hands; and thus ten months were fulfilled, and they were
fulfilled on Thursday, the last day of June, in the year of the era one thousand one hundred
and thirty and one, which was in the year one thousand ninety and three of the incarnation
of our Lord Jesus Christ. And when the Cid had finished all his dealings with the Moors, on
this day he took horse with all his company in good array, his banner being carried before
him, and his arms behind; and in this guise, with great rejoicings he entered the city of Valencia.
And he alighted at the Alcazar, and gave order to lodge all his men round about it; and he
bade them plant his banner upon the highest tower of the Alcazar. Glad was the Campeador, and
all they who were with him, when they saw his banner planted in that place. And from that day
forth was the Cid possessed of all the castles and fortresses which were in the kingdom of
Valencia, and established in what God had given him, and he and all his people rejoiced.

HERO OF SWITZERLAND

WILLIAM TELL

ADAPTED BY H.E. MARSHALL

I

GESSLER'S TYRANNY

Far away in the heart of Europe there lies a little country called Switzerland. It seems wonderful
that when great and powerful kings and princes swept over the world, fighting and conquering,
little Switzerland should not have been conquered and swallowed up by one or other of the great
countries which lay around. But the Swiss have always been a brave and fearless people.

At one time one of the great princes of Europe tried to conquer Switzerland and take away the
freedom of its people. But the people fought so bravely that instead of being conquered they
conquered the tyrants and drove them away.

In those far-off times the greatest ruler in Europe was the Emperor, and his empire was divided
into many states, over each of which ruled a prince or king who acknowledged the Emperor as
overlord. When an Emperor died the kings and princes met together and chose another Emperor
from among their number.

Switzerland was one of the countries which owned the Emperor as overlord. But the Swiss were
a free people. They had no king or prince over them, but a governor only, who was appointed
by the Emperor.

Austria was another of the states of the great empire, and at one time a Duke of Austria was
made ruler of Switzerland. Because of its great beauty, this duke cast greedy eyes upon Switzerland
and longed to possess it for his very own.

But the Swiss would not give up their freedom; and three cantons, as the divisions of Switzerland
are called, joined together, and swore to stand by each other, and never to submit to Austria.

Uri, Schwyz, and Unterwalden were the names of these three cantons. A little later another
canton joined the three. These four cantons lie round a lake which is called the Lake of the
four Forest Cantons. When Albrecht, Duke of Austria was chosen Emperor he said to himself that
now truly he would be lord and master of Switzerland. So he sent two nobles to the Swiss to
talk to them, and persuade them to own him as their king.

Some of the people of Switzerland were persuaded to belong to Austria, but all the people of
the free cantons replied that they wished to remain free.

So the messengers went back to Albrecht and told him what the people said. When he heard the
message he was very angry. "The proud peasants," he cried, "they will not yield. Then I will
bend and break them. They will be soft and yielding enough when I have done with them."

Months went by and the Emperor appointed no ruler over Switzerland. At last the people, feeling
that they must have a governor, sent messengers to the Emperor, begging him to appoint a ruler,
as all the Emperors before him had done. "A governor you shall have." said Albrecht. "Go home
and await his coming. Whom I send to you, him you must obey in all things."

When they had gone, Albrecht smiled grimly to himself. "They will not yield," he said, "but
I will oppress them and ill-treat them until I force them to rebel. Then I will fight against
them and conquer them, and at last Switzerland will be mine."

A few days later Albrecht made his friends Hermann Gessler and Beringer of Landenberg governors
over the free cantons, telling them to take soldiers with them to enforce the law and to tax
the people in order to pay the soldiers. "You will punish all wrong-doers severely," he said,
"I will endure no rebels within my empire."

Hard and bitter days began when Gessler and Landenberg settled there. They delighted in oppressing
the people. They loaded them with taxes; nothing could be either bought or sold but the governors
claimed a great part of the money; the slightest fault was punished with long imprisonment
and heavy fines. The people became sad and downcast, but still they would not yield to Austria.

Gessler lived in a great castle at Küssnacht in Schwyz. In it were dreadful dungeons where
he imprisoned the people and tortured them according to his wicked will. But he was not pleased
to have only one castle, and he made up his mind to build another in Uri. So he began to build
one near the little town of Altorf, which lay at the other end of the Lake of the Forest Cantons.
Gessler forced the men of Uri to build this castle, and he meant to use it not only as a house
for himself, but as a prison for the people.

"What will you call your castle?" asked a friend one day, as they stood to watch the building.
"I will call it the Curb of Uri," said Gessler, with a cruel laugh, "for with it I will curb
the proud spirit of these peasants." After watching the work for some time, Gessler and his
friend rode away. "My friend," said Gessler, as he rode, "we will go back to Kiissnacht by
another way. I have heard that an insolent peasant called Werner Stauffacher has built himself
a new house. I wish to see it. There is no end to the impudence of these peasants." "But what
will you do?" asked his friend. "Do" said Gessler, "why, turn him out, to be sure. What need
have these peasants for great houses?" So they rode on to Stauffacher's house. "Whose house
is this?" he demanded. Stauffacher answered quietly, "My lord, this house belongs to the Emperor,
and is yours and mine in fief to hold and use for his service." "I rule this land," said Gessler,
"in the name of the Emperor, and I will not allow peasants to build houses without asking leave.
I will have you understand that." And he rode from the doorway. Stauffacher told his wife what
had happened and she advised him to call a secret meeting of his friends to plan to free themselves
from the governor's rule.

Werner Stauffacher spent some days in going from village to village, trying to find out how
the peasants and common people felt, and everywhere heard complaints and groans. Coming to
Altorf, where his friend Walter Fürst lived, he heard in the market-place a great noise of
shouting and trampling of feet.

Down the street a party of Austrian soldiers came marching. One of them carried a long pole,
and another a red cap with a peacock's feather in it. Then the pole with the red cap on the
top of it was firmly planted in the ground.

As soon as the pole was set up a herald stepped out, blew his trumpet and cried, "Se ye this
cap here set up? It is his Majesty's will and commandment that ye do all bow the knee and bend
the head as ye do pass it by."

This was a new insult to a free people. Stauffacher went to the house of Walter Fürst, where
he met Arnold of Melchthal, who had suffered much from Landenberg. Calling upon God and his
saints, these three men swore a solemn oath to protect each other and promised to meet in a
little meadow called the Rütli, the Wednesday before Martinmas.

Three weeks passed, and in the darkness and quiet the men stole to the place of meeting with
other friends of freedom whom they had brought. Near Walter Fürst stood a young man straight
and tall with clear and honest eyes. "William Tell," said Arnold, "and the best shot in all
Switzerland. I have seen him shoot an apple from a tree a hundred paces off."

Then they swore never to betray each other, to be true to the Emperor, but to drive the Austrian
governor, his friends, his servants, and his soldiers out of the land.

II

WILLIAM TELL AND HIS GREAT SHOT

William Tell did not live in Altorf, but in another village some way off, called Bürglen. His
wife, who was called Hedwig, was Walter Fürst's daughter. Tell and Hedwig had two sons, William
and Walter. Walter, the younger, was about six years old.

William Tell loved his wife and his children very much, and they all lived happily together
in a pretty little cottage at Bürglen.

"Hedwig," said Tell one morning, some days after the meeting mentioned above, "I am going into
Altorf to see your father."

Hedwig looked troubled. "Do be careful, William," she said. "Must you really go? You know the
governor is there just now, and he hates you."

"Oh, I am quite safe," said Tell; "I have done nothing for which he could punish me. But I
will keep out of his way," and he lifted his crossbow and prepared to go.

"Do not take your bow," said Hedwig, still feeling uneasy. "Leave it here."

"Why, Hedwig, how you trouble yourself for nothing," said Tell, smiling at her. "Why should
I leave my bow behind? I feel lost without it."

"O father, where are you going?" said Walter, running into the room at this minute.

"I am going to Altorf to see grandfather. Would you like to come?"

"Oh, may I? May I, mother?"

"Yes, dear, if you like," said Hedwig. "And you will be careful, won't you?" she added, turning
to Tell.

"Yes, I will," he replied, and Walter, throwing his arms round her neck, said, "It's all right,
mother, I will take care of father." Then they set off merrily together.

It was a great thing to go to Altorf with father, and Walter was so happy that he chattered
all the way, asking questions about everything.

"How far can you shoot, father?"

"Oh, a good long way."

"As high as the sun?" asked Walter, looking up at it.

"Oh dear, no, not nearly so high as that."

"Well, how high? As high as the snow-mountains?"

"Oh no."

"Why is there always snow on the mountains, father?" asked Walter, thinking of something else.
And so he went on, asking questions about one thing after another, until his father was quite
tired of answering.

Walter was chattering so much that Tell forgot all about the hat upon the pole, and, instead
of going round by another way to avoid it, as he had meant to do, he went straight through
the market-place to reach Walter Fürst's house.

"Father, look," said Walter, "look, how funny! there is a hat stuck up on a pole. What is it for?"

"Don't look, Walter," said Tell, "the hat has nothing to do with us, don't look at it." And
taking Walter by the hand, he led him hurriedly away.

But it was too late. The soldier, who stood beside the pole to guard it and see that people
bowed in passing, pointed his spear at Tell and bade him stop. "Stand, in the Emperor's name,"
he cried.

"Let be, friend," said Tell, "let me past."

"Not till you obey the Emperor's command. Not till you bow to the hat."

"It is no command of the Emperor," said Tell. "It is Gessler's folly and tyranny. Let me go."

"Nay, but you must not speak of my lord the governor in such terms. And past you shall not
go until you bow to the cap. And, if you bow not, to prison I will lead you. Such is my lord's
command."

"Why should I bow to a cap?" said Tell, his voice shaking with rage. "Were the Emperor himself
here, then would I bend the knee and bow my head to him with all reverence. But to a hat! Never!"
and he tried to force his way past Heinz the soldier. But Heinz would not let him pass, and
kept his spear pointed at Tell.

Hearing loud and angry voices, many people gathered to see what the cause might be. Soon there
was quite a crowd around the two. Every one talked at once, and the noise and confusion were
great. Heinz tried to take Tell prisoner, and the people tried to take him away. "Help! help!"
shouted Heinz, hoping that some of his fellow-soldiers would hear him and come to his aid,--"Help,
help! treason, treason!"

Then over all the noise of the shouting there sounded the tramp of horses' hoofs and the clang
and jangle of swords and armor.

"Room for the governor. Room, I say," cried a herald.

The shouting ceased and the crowd silently parted, as Gessler, richly dressed, haughty and
gloomy, rode through it, followed by a gay company of his friends and soldiers. He checked
his horse and, gazing angrily round the crowd, "What is this rioting?" he asked.

"My lord," said Heinz, stepping forward, "this scoundrel here will not bow to the cap, according
to your lordship's command."

"Eh, what?" said Gessler, his dark face growing more dark and angry still. "Who dares to disobey
my orders?"

"'Tis William Tell of Bürglen, my lord."

"Tell?" said Gessler, turning in his saddle and looking at Tell as he stood among the people,
holding little Walter by the hand.

There was silence for a few minutes while Gessler gazed at Tell in anger.

"I hear you are a great shot, Tell," said Gessler at last, laughing scornfully, "they say you
never miss."

"That is quite true," said little Walter eagerly, for he was very proud of his father's shooting.
"He can hit an apple on a tree a hundred yards off."

"Is that your boy?" said Gessler, looking at him with an ugly smile.

"Yes, my lord."

"Have you other children?"

"Another boy, my lord."

"You are very fond of your children, Tell?"

"Yes, my lord."

"Which of them do you love best?"

Tell hesitated. He looked down at little Walter with his rosy cheeks and curly hair. Then he
thought of William at home with his pretty loving ways. "I love them both alike, my lord,"
he said at last.

"Ah," said Gessler, and thought a minute. "Well, Tell," he said after a pause. "I have heard
so much of this boast of yours about hitting apples, that I should like to see something of
it. You shall shoot an apple off your boy's head at a hundred yards' distance. That will be
easier than shooting off a tree."

"My lord," said Tell, turning pale, "you do not mean that? It is horrible. I will do anything
rather than that."

"You will shoot an apple off your boy's head," repeated Gessler in a slow and scornful voice.
"I want to see your wonderful skill, and I command you to do it at once. You have your crossbow
there. Do it."

"I will die first," said Tell.

"Very well," said Gessler, "but you need not think in that way to save your boy. He shall die
with you. Shoot, or die both of you. And, mark you, Tell, see that you aim well, for if you
miss you will pay for it with your life."

Tell turned pale. His voice trembled as he replied, "My lord, it was but thoughtlessness. Forgive
me this once, and I will always bow to the cap in future." Proud and brave although he was,
Tell could not bear the thought that he might kill his own child.

"Have done with this delay," said Gessler, growing yet more angry. "You break the laws, and
when, instead of punishing you as you deserve, I give you a chance of escape, you grumble and
think yourself hardly used. Were peasants ever more unruly and discontented? Have done, I say.
Heinz, bring me an apple."

The soldier hurried away.

"Bind the boy to that tree," said Gessler, pointing to a tall lime-tree near by.

Two soldiers seized Walter and bound him fast to the tree. He was not in the least afraid,
but stood up against the trunk straight and quiet. Then, when the apple was brought, Gessler
rode up to him and, bending from the saddle, himself placed the apple upon his head.

All this time the people crowded round silent and wondering, and Tell stood among them as if
in a dream, watching everything with a look of horror in his eyes.

"Clear a path there," shouted Gessler, and the soldiers charged among the people, scattering
them right and left.

When a path had been cleared, two soldiers, starting from the tree to which Walter was bound,
marched over the ground, measuring one hundred paces, and halted. "One hundred paces, my lord,"
they said, turning to Gessler.

Gessler rode to the spot, calling out, "Come, Tell, from here you shall shoot."

Tell took his place. He drew an arrow from his quiver, examined it carefully, and then, instead
of fitting it to his bow, he stuck it in his belt. Then, still carefully, he chose another
arrow and fitted it to his bow.

A deep silence fell upon every one as Tell took one step forward. He raised his bow. A mist
was before his eyes, his arm trembled, his bow dropped from his hand. He could not shoot. The
fear that he might kill his boy took away all his skill and courage.

A groan broke from the people as they watched. Then from far away under the lime-tree came
Walter's voice, "Shoot, father, I am not afraid. You cannot miss."

Once more Tell raised his bow. The silence seemed deeper than ever. The people of Altorf knew
and loved Tell, and Fürst, and little Walter. And so they watched and waited with heavy hearts
and anxious faces.

"Ping!" went the bowstring. The arrow seemed to sing through the frosty air, and, a second
later, the silence was broken by cheer after cheer. The apple lay upon the ground pierced right
through the center.

One man sprang forward and cut the rope with which Walter was bound to the tree; another picked
up the apple and ran with it to Gessler. But Tell stood still, his bow clutched in his hand,
his body bent forward, his eyes wild and staring, as if he were trying to follow the flight
of the arrow. Yet he saw nothing, heard nothing.

"He has really done it!" exclaimed Gessler in astonishment, as he turned the apple round and
round in his hand. "Who would have thought it? Right in the center, too."

Little Walter, quite delighted, came running to his father. "Father," he cried, "I knew you
could do it. I knew you could, and I was not a bit afraid. Was it not splendid?" and he laughed
and pressed his curly head against his father.

Then suddenly Tell seemed to wake out of his dream, and taking Walter in his arms he held him
close, kissing him again and again. "You are safe, my boy. You are safe," was all he said.
But strong man though he was his eyes were full of tears, and he was saying to himself, "I
might have killed him. I might have killed my own boy."

Meanwhile Gessler sat upon his horse watching them with a cruel smile upon his wicked face.
"Tell," he said at last, "that was a fine shot, but for what was the other arrow?"

Tell put Walter down and, holding his hand, turned to Gessler, "It is always an archer's custom,
my lord, to have a second arrow ready," he said.

"Nay, nay," said Gessler, "that answer will not do, Tell. Speak the truth."

Tell was silent.

"Speak, man," said Gessler, "and if you speak the truth, whatever it may be, I promise you
your life."

"Then," said Tell, throwing his shoulders back and looking straight at Gessler, "since you
promise me my life, hear the truth, if that first arrow had struck my child, the second one
was meant for you, and be sure I had not missed my mark a second time."

Gessler's face grew dark with rage. For a moment or two he could not speak. When at last he
did speak, his voice was low and terrible, "You dare," he said, "you dare to tell me this!
I promised you your life indeed. Your life you shall have, but you shall pass it in a dark
and lonely prison, where neither sun nor moon shall send the least glimmer of light. There
you shall lie, so that I may be safe from you. Ah, my fine archer, your bows and arrows will
be of little use to you henceforth. Seize him, men, and bind him, lest he do murder even now."

In a moment the soldiers sprang forward, and Tell was seized and bound.

As Gessler sat watching them, he looked round at all the angry faces of the crowd. "Tell has
too many friends here," he said to himself. "If I imprison him in the Curb of Uri, they may
find some way to help him to escape. I will take him with me in my boat to Klissnacht. There
he can have no friends. There he will be quite safe." Then aloud he said, "Follow me, my men.
Bring him to the boat."

As he said these words, there was a loud murmur from the crowd. "That is against the law,"
cried many voices.

"Law, law?" growled Gessler. "Who makes the law, you or I?"

Walter Fürst had been standing among the crowd silent and anxious. Now he stepped forward and
spoke boldly. "My lord," he said, "it has ever been a law among the Swiss that no one shall
be imprisoned out of his own canton. If my son-in-law, William Tell, has done wrong, let him
be tried and imprisoned here, in Uri, in Altorf. If you do otherwise you wrong our ancient
freedom and rights."

"Your freedom! your rights!" said Gessler roughly. "I tell you, you are here to obey the laws,
not to teach me how I shall rule." Then turning his horse and calling out, "On, men, to the
boat with him," he rode towards the lake, where, at a little place called Fliielen, his boat
was waiting for him.

But Walter clung to his father, crying bitterly. Tell could not take him in his arms to comfort
him, for his hands were tied. But he bent over him to kiss him, saying, "Little Walter, little
Walter, be brave. Go with thy grandfather and comfort thy mother."

So Tell was led to Gessler's boat, followed by the sorrowing people. Their hearts were full
of hot anger against the tyrant. Yet what could they do? He was too strong for them.

Tell was roughly pushed into the boat, where he sat closely guarded on either side by soldiers.
His bow and arrows, which had been taken from him, were thrown upon a bench beside the steersman.

Gessler took his seat. The boat started, and was soon out on the blue water of the lake. As
the people of Altorf watched Tell go, their hearts sank. They had not known, until they saw
him bound and a prisoner, how much they had trusted and loved him.

III

THE ESCAPE OF WILLIAM TELL

On the lakes of Switzerland storms of wind arise very quickly. The Swiss used to dread these
storms so much that they gave names to the winds as if they were people. The south wind, which
is the fiercest, they called the Föhn. There used to be a law that when the Föhn arose, all
fires were to be put out. For the wind whistled and blew down the wide chimneys like great
bellows, till the fires flared up so fiercely that the houses, which were built of wood, were
in danger of being burned to the ground. Now one of these fierce storms arose.

No one noticed when Gessler's boat pushed off from the shore how dark the sky had grown nor
how keenly the wind was blowing. But before the boat had gone very far the waves began to rise,
and the wind to blow fiercer and fiercer.

Soon the little boat was tossing wildly on great white-crested waves. The rowers bent to the
oars and rowed with all their might. But in spite of all they could do, the waves broke over
the boat, filling it with water. They were tossed here and there, until it seemed every minute
that they would sink.

Pale with fear, the captain stood at the helm. He was an Austrian who knew nothing of the Swiss
lakes, and he had never before been in such a storm. He was helpless, and he knew that very
soon the boat would be a wreck.

Wrapped in his mantle, Gessler sat silent and still, watching the storm. He, too, knew the danger.

As the waves dashed over him, one of Gessler's servants staggered to his master's feet. "My
lord," he said, "you see our need and danger, yet methinks there is one man on board who could
save us."

"Who is that?" asked Gessler.

"William Tell, your prisoner," replied the man. "He is known to be one of the best sailors
on this lake. He knows every inch of it. If any one can save the boat, he can."

"Bring him here," said Gessler.

"It seems you are a sailor as well as an archer, Tell," said Gessler, when his prisoner had
been brought before him. "Can you save the boat and bring us to land?"

"Yes," said Tell.

"Unbind him, then," said Gessler to the soldier, "but mark you, Tell, you go not free. Even
although you save us, you are still my prisoner. Do not think to have any reward."

The rope which bound Tell's hands was cut, and he took his place at the helm.

The waves still dashed high, the wind still howled, but under Tell's firm hand the boat seemed
to steady itself, and the rowers bent to their work with new courage and strength in answer
to his commanding voice.

Tell, leaning forward, peered through the darkness and the spray. There was one place where
he knew it would be possible to land--where a bold and desperate man at least might land. He
was looking for that place. Nearer and nearer to the shore he steered. At last he was quite
close to it. He glanced quickly round. His bow and arrows lay beside him. He bent and seized
them. Then with one great leap he sprang ashore, and as he leaped he gave the boat a backward
push with his foot, sending it out again into the stormy waters of the lake.

There was a wild outcry from the sailors, but Tell was free, for no one dared to follow him.
Quickly clambering up the mountain-side, he disappeared among the trees.

As Tell vanished, Gessler stood up and shouted in anger, but the little boat, rocking and tossing
on the waves, drifted out into the lake, and the Austrian sailors, to whom the shore was unknown,
dared not row near to it again, lest they should be dashed to pieces upon the rocks. Even as
it was, they expected every moment that the boat would sink, and that all would be drowned.
But despair seemed to give the sailors fresh strength, and soon the wind fell and the waves
became quieter. A few hours later, wet, weary, but safe, Gessler and his company landed on
the shore of Schwyz.

IV

TELL'S SECOND SHOT

As soon as Gessler landed, he called for his horse, and silent and gloomy, his heart full of
bitter hate against Tell and all the Swiss, he mounted and rode towards his castle at Küssnacht.

But Tell's heart, too, was full of hate and anger. That morning he had been a gentle, peace-loving
man. Now all was changed. Gessler's cruel jest had made him hard and angry. He could not forget
that he might have killed his own boy. He seemed to see always before him Walter bound to the
tree with the apple on his head. Tell made up his mind that Gessler should never make any one
else suffer so much. There was only one thing to do. That was to kill Gessler, and that Tell
meant to do.

If Gessler escaped from the storm, Tell was sure that he would go straight to his castle at
Küssnacht. There was only one road which led from the lake to the castle, and at a place called
the Hollow Way it became very narrow, and the banks rose steep and rugged on either side. There
Tell made up his mind to wait for Gessler. There he meant to free his country from the cruel
tyrant.

Without stopping for food or rest, Tell hurried through the woods until he came to the Hollow
Way. There he waited and watched. Many people passed along the road. There were herds with
their flocks, and travelers of all kinds, among them a poor woman whose husband had been put
in prison by Gessler, so that now she had no home, and had to wander about with her children
begging. She stopped and spoke to Tell, and the story she told of Gessler's cruelty made Tell's
heart burn with anger, and made him more sure than ever that the deed he meant to do was just
and right.

The day went on, and still Gessler did not come, and still Tell waited. At last he heard the
distant tramp of feet and the sound of voices. Surely he had come at last. But as the sounds
came nearer, Tell knew that it could not be Gessler, for he heard music and laughter, and through
the Hollow Way came a gaily dressed crowd. It was a wedding-party. Laughing and merry, the
bride and bridegroom with their friends passed along. When they were out of sight the wind
brought back the sound of their merry voices to Tell, as he waited upon the bank. They, at
least, had for a time forgotten Gessler.

At last, as the sun was setting, Tell heard the tramp of horses, and a herald dashed along
the road, shouting, "Room for the governor. Room, I say."

As Gessler came slowly on behind, Tell could hear him talking in a loud and angry voice to
a friend. "Obedience I will have," he was saying. "I have been far too mild a ruler over this
people. They grow too proud. But I will break their pride. Let them prate of freedom, indeed.
I will crush--" The sentence was never finished. An arrow whizzed through the air, and with
a groan Gessler fell, dead.

Tell's second arrow had found its mark.

Immediately everything was in confusion. Gessler's soldiers crowded round, trying to do something
for their master. But it was useless. He was dead. Tell's aim had been true.

"Who has done this foul murder?" cried one of Gessler's friends, looking round.

"The shot was mine," answered Tell, from where he stood on the high bank. "But no murder have
I done. I have but freed an unoffending people from a base and cowardly tyrant. My cause is
just, let God be the judge."

At the sound of his voice every one turned to look at Tell, as he stood above them calm and
unafraid.

"Seize him!" cried the man who had already spoken, as soon as he recovered from his astonishment.
"Seize him, it is Tell the archer."

Five or six men scrambled up the steep bank as fast as they could. But Tell slipped quietly
through the bushes, and when they reached the top he was nowhere to be found.

The short winter's day was closing in fast, and Tell found it easy to escape in the darkness
from Gessler's soldiers. They soon gave up the chase, and, returning to the road, took up their
master's dead body and carried it to his castle at Küssnacht There was little sorrow for him,
for he had been a hard master. The Austrian soldiers did not grieve, and the Swiss, wherever
they heard the news, rejoiced.

As soon as he was free of the soldiers, Tell turned and made for Stauffacher's house. All through
the night he walked, until he came to the pretty house with its red roofs and many windows
which had made Gessler so angry.

Now there was no light in any of the windows, and all was still and quiet. But Tell knew in
which of the rooms Stauffacher slept, and he knocked softly upon the window until he had aroused
his friend.

"William Tell!" said Stauffacher in astonishment. "I heard from Walter Fürst that you were
a prisoner. Thank Heaven that you are free again."

"I am free," said Tell; "you, too, are free. Gessler is dead."

"Gessler dead!" exclaimed Stauffacher. "Now indeed have we cause for thankfulness. Tell me,
how did it happen?" and he drew William Tell into the house.

Tell soon told all his story. Then Stauffacher, seeing how weary he was, gave him food and
made him rest.

That night Tell slept well. All next day he remained hidden in Stauffacher's house. "You must
not go," said his friend, "Gessler's soldiers will be searching for you." But when evening
came Tell crept out into the dark again, and kind friends rowed him across the lake back to
Flüelen. There, where a few days before he had been a prisoner, he landed, now free.

Tell went at once to Walter Fürst's house, and soon messengers were hurrying all through the
land to gather together again the Confederates, as those who had met on that eventful night
were called.

This time they gathered with less fear and less secrecy, for was not the dreaded governor dead?
Not one but was glad, yet some of the Confederates blamed Tell, for they had all promised to
wait until the first of January before doing anything. "I know," said Tell, "but he drove me
to it." And every man there who had left a little boy at home felt that he too might have done
the same thing.

Now that Tell had struck the first blow, some of the Confederates wished to rise at once. But
others said, "No, it is only a few weeks now until New Year's Day. Let us wait."

So they waited, and everything seemed quiet and peaceful in the land, for the Emperor sent
no governor to take Gessler's place, as he was far away in Austria, too busy fighting and quarreling
there to think of Switzerland in the meantime. "When I have finished this war," he said, "it
will be time enough to crush these Swiss rebels."

HERO OF PERSIA

RUSTEM

ADAPTED BY ALFRED J. CHURCH

I

THE SEVEN ADVENTURES OF RUSTEM

King Keïkobad died, and his son Kaoüs sat upon his throne. At first he was a moderate and prudent
prince; but finding his riches increase, and his armies grow more and more numerous, he began
to believe that there was no one equal to him in the whole world, and that he could do what
he would. One day as he sat drinking in one of the chambers of his palace, and boasting after
his custom, a Genius, disguised as a minstrel, came to the King's chamberlain, and desired
to be admitted to the royal presence. "I came," he said, "from the country of the Genii, and
I am a sweet singer. Maybe the King, if he were to hear me, would give me a post in his court."

The chamberlain went to the King, and said, "There is a minstrel at the gate; he has a harp
in his hand, and his voice is marvelously sweet."

"Bring him up," said the King.

So they brought him in, and gave him a place among the musicians, and commanded that he should
give them a trial of his powers. So the minstrel, after playing a prelude on his harp, sang
a song of the land of the Genii.

"There is no land in all the world" this was the substance of his song--"like Mazanderan, the
land of the Genii. All the year round the rose blooms in its gardens and the hyacinth on its
hills. It knows no heat nor cold, only an eternal spring. The nightingales sing in its thicket,
and through its valleys wander the deer, and the water of its stream is as the water of roses,
delighting the soul with its perfume. Of its treasures there is no end; the whole country is
covered with gold and embroidery and jewels. No man can say that he is happy unless he has
seen Mazanderan."

When the King heard this song, he immediately conceived the thought of marching against this
wonderful country. Turning, therefore, to his warriors, he said: "We are given over to feasting;
but the brave must not suffer himself to rest in idleness. I am wealthier and, I doubt not,
stronger than all the kings that have gone before me; it becomes me also to surpass them in
my achievements. We will conquer the land of Genii."

The warriors of the King were little pleased to hear such talk from his lips. No one ventured
to speak, but their hearts were full of trouble and fear, for they had no desire to fight against
the Genii.

"We are your subjects, O King," they said, "and will do as you desire." But when they were
by themselves, and could speak openly, they said one to another, "What a trouble is this that
has come of our prosperous fortune! Unless by good fortune the King forgets this purpose of
his, we and the whole country are lost. Jemshid, whom the Genii and the Peris and the very
birds of the air used to obey, never ventured to talk in this fashion of Mazanderan, or to
seek war against the Genii; and Feridun, though he was the wisest of kings, and skilful in
all magical arts, never cherished such a plan." So they sat, overwhelmed with anxiety.

At last one of them said, "My friends, there is only one way of escaping from this danger.
Let us send a swift dromedary to Zal of the white hair, with this message: 'Though your head
be covered with dust, do not stay to wash it, but come.' Perhaps Zal will give the King wise
advice, and, telling him that this plan of his is nothing but a counsel of Satan, will persuade
him to change his purpose. Otherwise we are lost, small and great."

The nobles listened to this advice, and sent a messenger to Zal, mounted on a swift dromedary.

When Zal heard what had happened, he said:

"The King is self-willed. He has not yet felt either the cold or the heat of the world. He
thinks that all men, great and small, tremble at his sword, and it must needs be that he learn
better by experience. However, I will go; I will give him the best advice that I can. If he
will be persuaded by me, it will be well; but if not, the way is open, and Rustem shall go
with his army." All night long he revolved these matters in his heart. The next morning he
went his way, and arrived at the court of the King.

The King received him with all honor, bade him sit by his side, and inquired how he had borne
the fatigue of his journey, and of the welfare of Rustem, his son. Then Zal spoke:

"I have heard, my lord, that you are forming plans against the land of the Genii. Will it please
you to listen to me? There have been mighty kings before you, but never during all my years,
which now are many, has any one of them conceived in his heart such a design as this. This
land is inhabited by Genii that are skilful in all magical arts. They can lay such bonds upon
men that no one is able to hurt them. No sword is keen enough to cut them through; riches and
wisdom and valor are alike powerless against them. I implore you, therefore, not to waste your
riches, and the riches of your country and the blood of your warriors, on so hopeless an enterprise."

The King answered, "Doubtless it is true that the kings my predecessors never ventured to entertain
such a plan. But am I not superior to them in courage, in power and wealth? Had they such warriors
as you, and Rustem your son? Do not think to turn me from my purpose. I will go against the
country of these accursed magicians, and verily I will not leave one single soul alive in it,
for they are an evil race. If you do not care to come with me, at least refrain from advising
me to sit idle upon my throne."

When Zal heard this answer, he said: "You are the King, and we are your slaves. Whatever you
ordain is right and just, and it is only by thy good pleasure that we breathe and move. I have
said what was in my heart. All that remains now is to obey, and to pray that the Ruler of the
world may prosper your counsels."

When he had thus spoken, Zal took leave of the King, and departed for his own country.

The very next day the King set out with his army for the land of the Genii, and, after marching
for several days, pitched his tent at the foot of Mount Asprus, and held a great revel all
the night long with his chiefs. The next morning he said, "Choose me two thousand men who will
break down the gates of Mazanderan with their clubs. And take care that when you have taken
the city you spare neither young nor old, for I will rid the world of these magicians." They
did as the King commanded, and in a short space of time the city, which was before the richest
and most beautiful in the whole world, was made into a desert.

When the King of Mazanderan heard of these things he called a messenger, and said: "Go to the
White Genius and say to him, 'The Persians have come with a great army and are destroying everything.
Make haste and help me, or there will be nothing left to preserve.'"

The White Genius said, "Tell the King not to be troubled; I will see to these Persians."

That same night the whole army of King Kaoüs was covered with a wonderful cloud. The sky was
dark as pitch, and there fell from it such a terrible storm of hailstones that no one could
stand against them. When the next morning came, lo! the King and all that had not fled--for
many fled to their own country--or been killed by the hailstones, were blind. Seven days they
remained terrified and helpless. On the eighth day they heard the voice, loud as a clap of
thunder, of the White Genius.

"King," said he, "you coveted the land of Mazanderan, you entered the city, you slew and took
prisoners many of the people; but you did not know what I could do. And now, see, you have
your desire. Your lot is of your own contriving."

The White Genius then gave over the King and his companions to the charge of an army of twelve
thousand Genii, and commanded that they should be kept in prison, and have just so much food
given them as should keep them alive from day to day. Kaoüs, however, contrived to send by
one of his warriors a message to Zal the White-haired, telling him of all the troubles that
had come upon him. When Zal heard the news he was cut to the heart, and sent without delay
for Rustem. "Rustem," said he, "this is no time for a man to eat and drink and take his pleasure.
The King is in the hands of Satan, and we must deliver him. As for me, I am old and feeble;
but you are of the age for war. Saddle Raksh, your horse, and set forth without a moment's
delay. The White Genius must not escape the punishment of his misdeeds at your hands."

"The way is long," said Rustem; "how shall I go?"

"There are two ways," answered Zal, "and both are difficult and dangerous. The King went by
the longer way. The other is by far the shorter, a two-weeks' march and no more; but it is
full of lions and evil Genii, and it is surrounded by darkness. Still, I would have you go
by it. God will be your helper; and difficult as the way may be, it will have an end, and your
good horse Raksh will accomplish it. And if it be the will of Heaven that you should fall by
the hand of the White Genius, who can change the ordering of destiny? Sooner or later we must
all depart, and death should be no trouble to him who has filled the earth with his glory."

"My father, I am ready to do your bidding," said Rustem. "Nevertheless, the heroes of old cared
not to go of their own accord into the land of death; and it is only he who is weary of life
that throws himself in the way of a roaring lion. Still I go, and I ask for no help but from
the justice of God. With that on my side I will break the charm of the magicians. The White
Genius himself shall not escape me."

Rustem armed himself, and went on his way.

Rustem made such speed that he accomplished two days' journey in one. But at last, finding
himself hungry and weary, and seeing that there were herds of wild asses in the plain which
he was traversing, he thought that he would catch one of them for his meal, and rest for the
night. So pressing his knees into his horse's side, he pursued one of them. There was no escape
for the swiftest beast when Rustem was mounted on Raksh, and in a very short time a wild ass
was caught with the lasso. Rustem struck a light with a flintstone, and making a fire with
brambles and branches of trees, roasted the ass and ate it for his meal. This done he took
the bridle from his horse, let him loose to graze upon the plain, and prepared himself to sleep
in a bed of rushes. Now in the middle of this bed of rushes was a lion's lair, and at the end
of the first watch the lion came back, and was astonished to see lying asleep on the rushes
a man as tall as an elephant, with a horse standing near him. The lion said to himself, "I
must first tear the horse, and then the rider will be mine whenever I please." So he leaped
at Raksh; but the horse darted at him like a flash of fire, and struck him on the head with
his fore feet. Then he seized him by the back with his teeth, and battered him to pieces on
the earth. When Rustem awoke and saw the dead lion, which indeed was of a monstrous size, he
said to Raksh, "Wise beast, who bade you fight with a lion? If you had fallen under his claws,
how should I have carried to Mazanderan this cuirass and helmet, this lasso, my bow and my
sword?" Then he went to sleep again; but awaking at sunrise, saddled Raksh and went on his way.

He had now to accomplish the most difficult part of his journey, across a waterless desert,
so hot that the very birds could not live in it. Horse and rider were both dying of thirst,
and Rustem, dismounting, could scarcely struggle along while he supported his steps by his
spear. When he had almost given up all hope, he saw a well-nourished ram pass by. "Where,"
said he to himself, "is the reservoir from which this creature drinks?" Accordingly he followed
the ram's footsteps, holding his horse's bridle in one hand and his sword in the other, and
the ram led him to a spring. Then Rustem lifted up his eyes to heaven and thanked God for his
mercies; afterwards he blessed the ram, saying, "No harm come to thee forever! May the grass
of the valleys and the desert be always green for thee, and may the bow of him that would hunt
thee be broken, for thou hast saved Rustem; verily, without thee he would have been torn to
pieces by the wild beasts of the desert."

After this he caught another wild ass, and roasted him for his meal. Then having bathed in
the spring, he lay down to sleep; but before he lay down, he said to Raksh, his horse: "Do
not seek quarrel or friendship with any. If an enemy come, run to me; and do not fight either
with Genius or lion."

After this he slept; and Raksh now grazed, and now galloped over the plain.

Now it so happened that there was a great dragon that had its bed in this part of the desert.
So mighty a beast was it, that not even a Genius had dared to pass by that way. The dragon
was astonished to see a man asleep and a horse by his side, and began to make its way to the
horse. Raksh did as he had been bidden, and running towards his master, stamped with his feet
upon the ground. Rustem awoke, and seeing nothing when he looked about him--for the dragon
meanwhile had disappeared--was not a little angry. He rebuked Raksh, and went to sleep again.
Then the dragon came once more out of the darkness, and the horse ran with all speed to his
master, tearing up the ground and kicking. A second time the sleeper awoke, but as he saw nothing
but darkness round him, he was greatly enraged, and said to his faithful horse:

"Why do you disturb me? If it wearies you to see me asleep, yet you cannot bring the night
to an end. I said that if a lion came to attack you, I would protect you; but I did not tell
you to trouble me in this way. Verily, if you make such a noise again, I will cut off your
head and go on foot, carrying all my arms and armor with me to Mazanderan."

A third time Rustem slept, and a third time the dragon came. This time Raksh, who did not venture
to come near his master, fled over the plain; he was equally afraid of the dragon and of Rustem.
Still his love for his master did not suffer him to rest. He neighed and tore up the earth,
till Rustem woke up again in a rage. But this time God would not suffer the dragon to hide
himself, and Rustem saw him through the darkness, and, drawing his sword, rushed at him.

But first he said, "Tell me your name; my hand must not tear your soul from your body before
I know your name."

The dragon said, "No man can ever save himself from my claws; I have dwelt in this desert for
ages, and the very eagles have not dared to fly across. Tell me then your name, bold man. Unhappy
is the mother that bore you."

"I am Rustem, son of Zal of the white hair," said the hero, "and there is nothing on earth
that I fear."

Then the dragon threw itself upon Rustem. But the horse Raksh laid back his ears, and began
to tear the dragon's back with his teeth, just as a lion might have torn it.

The hero stood astonished for a while; then, drawing his sword, severed the monster's head
from his body. Then, having first bathed, he returned thanks to God, and mounting on Raksh,
went his way.

All that day he traveled across the plain, and came at sunset to the land of the magicians.
Just as the daylight was disappearing, he spied a delightful spot for his night's encampment.
There were trees and grass, and a spring of water. And beside the spring there was a flagon
of red wine, and a roast kid, with bread and salt and confectionery neatly arranged. Rustem
dismounted, unsaddled his horse, and looked with astonishment at the provisions thus prepared.
It was the meal of certain magicians, who had vanished when they saw him approach.

Of this he knew nothing, but sitting down without question, filled a cup with wine, and taking
a harp which he found lying by the side of the flagon, sang:

  "The scourge of the wicked am I,
  And my days still in battle go by;
  Not for me is the red wine that glows
  In the reveler's cup, nor the rose
  That blooms in the land of delight;
  But with monsters and demons to fight."

The music and the voice of the singer reached the ears of a witch that was in those parts.
Forthwith, by her art, she made her face as fair as spring, and, approaching Rustem, asked
him how he fared, and sat down by his side. The hero thanked Heaven that he had thus found
in the desert such good fare and excellent company; for he did not know that the lovely visitor
was a witch. He welcomed her, and handed her a cup of wine; but, as he handed it, he named
the name of God, and at the sound her color changed, and she became as black as charcoal.

When Rustem saw this, quick as the wind he threw his lasso over her head.

"Confess who you are," he cried; "show yourself in your true shape."

Then the witch was changed into a decrepit, wrinkled old woman. Rustem cut her in halves with
a blow of his sword.

The next day he continued his journey with all the speed that he could use, and came to a place
where it was utterly dark. Neither sun, nor moon, nor stars could be seen; and all that the
hero could do was to let the reins fall on his horse's neck, and ride on as chance might direct.

In time he came to a most delightful country, where the sun was shining brightly, and where
the ground was covered with green. Rustem took off his cuirass of leopard-skin, and his helmet,
and let Raksh find pasture where he could in the fertile fields, and lay down to sleep. When
the keeper of the fields saw the horse straying among them and feeding, he was filled with
rage; and running up to the hero, dealt him with his stick a great blow upon the feet.

Rustem awoke.

"Son of Satan," said the keeper, "why do you let your horse stray in the cornfields?"

Rustem leaped upon the man, and without uttering a word good or bad, wrenched his ears from
his head.

Now the owner of this fertile country was a young warrior of renown named Aulad. The keeper
ran up to him with his ears in his hand, and said:

"There has come to this place a son of Satan, clad in a cuirass of leopard-skin, with an iron
helmet. I was going to drive his horse out of the cornfields, when he leaped upon me, tore
my ears from my head without saying a single word, and then lay down to sleep again."

Aulad was about to go hunting with his chiefs; but when he heard the keeper's story he altered
his plan, and set out to the place where he heard that Rustem had been seen. Rustem, as soon
as he saw him approach, and a great company with him, ran to Raksh, leaped on his back, and
rode forward. Aulad said to him, "Who are you? What are you doing here? Why did you pluck off
my keeper's ears and let your horse feed in the cornfields?"

"If you were to hear my name," said Rustem, "it would freeze the blood in your heart."

So saying he drew his sword, and fastening his lasso to the bow of his saddle, rushed as a
lion rushes into the midst of a herd of oxen. With every blow of his sword he cut off a warrior's
head, till the whole of Aulad's company was either slain or scattered. Aulad himself he did
not kill, but throwing his lasso, caught him by the neck, dragged him from his horse, and bound
his hands. "Now," said he, "if you will tell me the truth, and, without attempting to deceive,
will show me where the White Genius dwells, and will guide me to where King Kaoüs is kept prisoner,
then I will make you king of Mazanderan. But if you speak a word of falsehood you die."

"It is well," said Aulad; "I will do what you desire. I will show you where the King is imprisoned.
It is four hundred miles from this place; and four hundred miles farther, a difficult and dangerous
way, is the dwelling of the White Genius. It is a cavern so deep that no man has ever sounded
it, and it lies between two mountains. Twelve thousand Genii watch it during the night, for
the White Genius is the chief and master of all his tribe. You will find him a terrible enemy,
and, for all your strong arms and hands, your keen sword, your lance and your club, you will
scarcely be able to conquer him; and when you have conquered him, there will still be much
to be done. In the city of the King of Mazanderan there are thousands of warriors, and not
a coward among them; and besides these, there are two hundred war-elephants. Were you made
of iron, could you venture to deal alone with these sons of Satan?"

Rustem smiled when he heard this, and said, "Come with me, and you will see what a single man,
who puts his trust in God, can do. And now show me first the way to the King's prison."

Rustem mounted on Raksh, and rode gaily forward, and Aulad ran in front of him. For a whole
day and night he ran, nor ever grew tired, till they reached the foot of Mount Asprus, where
King Kaoüs had fallen into the power of the Genii. About midnight they heard a great beating
of drums, and saw many fires blaze up.

Rustem said to Aulad, "What mean these fires that are blazing up to right and left of us?"

Aulad answered, "This is the way into Mazanderan. The great Genius Arzeng must be there."

Then Rustem went to sleep; and when he woke in the morning he took his lasso and fastened Aulad
to the trunk of a tree. Then hanging his grandfather's club to his saddlebow, he rode on.

His conflict with Arzeng, the chief of the army of the Genii, was soon finished. As he approached
the camp he raised his battle-cry. His shout was loud enough, one would have said, to split
the very mountains; and Arzeng, when he heard it, rushed out of his tent. Rustem set spurs
to his horse, and galloping up to the Genius, caught him by the head, tore it from the body,
and threw it into the midst of the army. When the Genii saw it, and caught sight also of the
great club, they fled in the wildest confusion, fathers trampling upon their sons in their
eagerness to escape. The hero put the whole herd of them to the sword, and then returned as
fast as he could to the place where he had left Aulad bound to the tree. He unloosed the knots
of the lasso, and bidding him lead the way to the prison-house of the King, set spurs to Raksh,
Aulad running in front as before.

When they entered the town, Raksh neighed. His voice was as loud as thunder, and the King heard
it, and in a moment understood all that had happened. "That is the voice of Raksh," he said
to the Persians that were with him; "our evil days are over. This was the way in which he neighed
in King Kobad's time, when he made war on the Scythians."

The Persians said to themselves, "Our poor King has lost his senses, or he is dreaming. There
is no help for us." But they had hardly finished speaking when the hero appeared, and did homage
to the King. Kaoüs embraced him, and then said: "If you are to help me, you must go before
the Genii know of your coming. So soon as the White Genius shall hear of the fall of Arzeng,
he will assemble such an army of his fellows as shall make all your pains and labor lost. But
you must know that you have great difficulties to overcome. First, you must cross seven mountains,
all of them occupied by troops of Genii; then you will see before you a terrible cavern--more
terrible, I have heard say, than any other place in the world. The entrance to it is guarded
by warrior Genii, and in it dwells the White Genius himself. He is both the terror and the
hope of his army. Conquer him, and all will be well. A wise physician tells me that the only
remedy for my blindness is to drop into my eyes three drops of the White Genius's blood. Go
and conquer, if you would save your King."

Without any delay Rustem set forth, Raksh carrying him like the wind. When he reached the great
cavern, he said to Aulad, who had guided him on his way as before, "The time of conflict is
come. Show me the way."

Aulad answered, "When the sun shall grow hot, the Genii will go to sleep. That will be your
time to conquer them."

Rustem waited till the sun was at its highest, and then went forth to battle. The Genii that
were on guard fled at the sound of his voice, and he went on without finding any to resist
him till he came to the great cavern of which the King had spoken. It was a terrible place
to see, and he stood for a while with his sword in his hand, doubting what he should do. No
one would choose such a spot for battle; and as for escaping from it, that was beyond all hope.
Long he looked into the darkness, and at last he saw a monstrous shape, which seemed to reach
across the whole breadth of the cave. It was the White Genius that was lying asleep. Rustem
did not attempt to surprise him in his sleep, but woke him by shouting his battle-cry. When
the White Genius saw him, he rushed at once to do battle with him. First he caught up from
the ground a stone as big as a millstone and hurled it at him. For the first time Rustem felt
a thrill of fear, so terrible was his enemy. Nevertheless, gathering all his strength, he struck
at him a great blow with his sword and cut off one of his feet. The monster, though having
but one foot, leaped upon him like a wild elephant, and seized him by the breast and arms,
hoping to throw him to the ground, and tore from his body great pieces of flesh, so that the
whole place was covered with blood. Rustem said to himself, "If I escape to-day I shall live
forever;" and the White Genius thought, "Even if I do deliver myself from the claws of this
dragon, I shall never see Mazanderan again." Still he did not lose courage, but continued to
struggle against the hero with all his might.

So the two fought together, the blood and sweat running from them in great streams. At last
Rustem caught the Genius round the body, and, putting out all his strength, hurled him to the
ground with such force that his soul was driven out of his body. Then he plunged his poinard
into the creature's heart, and tore the liver out of his body. This done he returned to Aulad,
whom he had left bound with his lasso, loosed him, and set out for the place where he had left
the King. But first Aulad said to him, "I have the marks of your bonds upon me; my body is
bruised with the knots of your lasso; I beseech you to respect the promise which you made me
of a reward. A hero is bound to keep his word."

Rustem said: "I promised that you should be King of Mazanderan, and King you shall be. But
I have much to do before my word can be kept. I have a great battle to fight, in which I may
be conquered, and I must rid this country of the magicians with whom it is encumbered. But
be sure that, when all is done, I will not fail of the promises which I have made."

So Rustem returned to King Kaoüs, and, dropping the blood of the White Genius into his eyes,
gave him back his sight. Seven days the King and his nobles feasted together, Rustem having
the chief place. On the eighth day they set out to clear the country of the accursed race of
magicians. When they had done this, the King said, "The guilty have now been punished. Let
no others suffer. And now I will send a letter to the King of Mazanderan."

So the King wrote a letter in these words: "You see how God has punished the wrong-doers--how
he has brought to naught the Genii and the magicians. Quit then your town, and come here to
pay homage and tribute to me. If you will not, then your life shall be as the life of Arzeng
and the White Genius."

This letter was carried to the King by a certain chief named Ferbad. When the King had read
it, he was greatly troubled. Three days he kept Ferbad as his guest, and then sent back by
him this answer: "Shall the water of the sea be equal to wine? Am I one to whom you can say,
'Come down from your throne, and present yourself before me?' Make ready to do battle with
me, for verily I will bring upon the land of Persia such destruction that no man shall be able
to say what is high and what is low."

Ferbad hastened back to the King of Persia. "The man," he said, "is resolved not to yield."
Then the King sent to Rustem. And Rustem said, "Send me with a letter that shall be as keen
as a sword and a message like a thunder-cloud." So the King sent for a scribe, who, making
the point of his reed as fine as an arrowhead, wrote thus: "These are foolish words, and do
not become a man of sense. Put away your arrogance, and be obedient to my words. If you refuse,
I will bring such an army against you as shall cover your land from one sea to the other; and
the ghost of the White Genius shall call the vultures to feast on your brains."

The King set his seal to this letter, and Rustem departed with it, with his club hanging to
his saddlebow. When the King of Mazanderan heard of his coming, he sent some of his nobles
to meet him. When Rustem saw them, he caught a huge tree that was by the wayside in his hands,
twisted it with all his might, and tore it up, roots and all. Then he poised it in his hand
as if it were a javelin. One of the nobles, the strongest of them all, rode up to him, caught
one of his hands, and pressed it with all his might. Rustem only smiled; but when in his turn
he caught the noble's hand in his, he crushed all the veins and bones, so that the man fell
fainting from his horse.

When the King heard what had been done, he called one of his warriors, Kalahour by name, the
strongest man in his dominions, and said to him, "Go and meet this messenger; show him your
prowess, and cover his face with shame." So Kalahour rode to meet Rustem, and, taking him by
the hand, wrung it with all the strength of an elephant. The hand turned blue with the pain,
but the hero did not flinch or give any sign of pain. But when in his turn he wrung the hand
of Kalahour, the nails dropped from it as the leaves drop from a tree. Kalahour rode back,
his hand hanging down, and said to the King, "It will be better for you to make peace than
to fight with this lion, whose strength is such that no man can stand against him. Pay this
tribute, and we will make it good to you. Otherwise we are lost."

