One English writer has certainly raised his voice against you with characteristic vehemence
and rudeness. As an historical painter and a humorist Carlyle has scarcely an equal: a new
intellectual region seemed to open to me when I read his "French Revolution." But his philosophy,
in its essential principle, is false. He teaches that the mass of mankind are fools,--that
the hero alone is wise,--that the hero, therefore, is the destined master of his fellow-men,
and that their only salvation lies in blind submission to his rule,--and this without distinction
of time or circumstance, in the most advanced as well as in the most primitive ages of the
world. The hero-despot can do no wrong. He is a king, with scarcely even a God above him; and
if the moral law happens to come into collision with his actions, so much the worse for the
moral law. On this theory, a Commonwealth such as yours ought not to exist; and you must not
be surprised, if, in a fit of spleen, the great cynic grasps his club and knocks your cause
on the head, as he thinks, with a single blow. Here is the end of an unsound, though brilliant
theory,--a theory which had always latent in it the worship of force and fraud, and which has
now displayed its tendency at once in the portentous defence of the robber-policy of Frederic
the Great and in the portentous defence of the Slave Power. An opposite theory of human society
is, in fact, finding its confirmation in these events,--that which tells us that we all have
need of each other, and that the goal towards which society actually moves is not an heroic
despotism, but a real community, in which each member shall contribute his gifts and faculties
to the common store, and the common government shall become the work of all. For, if the victory
in this struggle has been won, it has been won, not by a man, but by the nation; and that it
has been won not by a man, but by the nation, is your glory and the pledge of your salvation.
We have called for a Cromwell, and he has not come; he has not come, partly because Cromwells
are scarce, partly, perhaps, because the personal Cromwell belonged to a different age, and
the Cromwell of this age is an intelligent, resolute, and united people.

I might mention other eccentricities of opinion quite distinct from the general temper of the
English nation, such as that of the ultra-scientific school, which thinks it unscientific philanthropy
to ascribe the attributes of humanity to the negro,--a school some of the more rampant absurdities
of which had, just before I left England, called down the rebuke of real science in the person
of Mr. Huxley. And I might note, if the time would allow, many fluctuations and oscillations
which have taken place among our organs of opinion as the struggle went on. But I must say
on the whole, both with reference to our different classes and with reference to our literature,
that, considering the complexity of the case, the distance from which our people viewed it,
and the changes which it has undergone since the war broke out, I do not think there is much
room for disappointment as to the sympathies of our people. Parties have been divided on this
question much as they are on great questions among ourselves, and much as they were in the
time of Charles I., when this long strife began. The England of Charles and Laud has been against
you: the England of Hampden, Milton, and Cromwell has in the main been on your side.

I say there has not been much ground for disappointment: I do not say there has been none.
England at present is not in her noblest mood. She is laboring under a reaction which extends
over France and great part of Europe, and which furnishes the key at this moment to the state
of European affairs. This movement, like all great movements, reactionary or progressive, is
complex in its nature. In the political sphere it presents itself as the lassitude and despondency
which, as usual, have ensued after great political efforts, such as were made by the Continental
nations in the abortive revolutions of 1848, and by England in a less degree in the struggle
for Parliamentary Reform. In the religious sphere it presents itself in an analogous shape:
there, lassitude and despondency have succeeded to the efforts of the religious intellect to
escape from the decaying creeds of the old State Churches and push forward to a more enduring
faith; and the priest as well as the despot has for a moment resumed his sway--though not his
uncontested sway--over our weariness and our fears. The moral sentiment, after high tension,
has undergone a corresponding relaxation. All liberal measures are for the time at a discount.
The Bill for the Abolition of Church-Rates, once carried in the House of Commons by large majorities,
is now lost. The nominal leaders of the Liberal party themselves have let their principles
fall into abeyance, and almost coalesced with their Tory opponents. The Whig nobles who carried
the Reform Bill have owned once more the bias of their order, and become determined, though
covert, enemies of Reform. The ancient altars are sought again for the sake of peace by fainting
spirits and perplexed minds; and again, as after our Reformation, as after our great Revolution,
we see a number of conversions to the Church of Rome. On the other hand, strange physical superstitions,
such as mesmerism and spirit-rapping, have crept, like astrology under the Roman Empire, into
the void left by religious faith. Wealth has been pouring into England, and luxury with wealth.
Our public journals proclaim, as you may perhaps have seen, that the society of our capital
is unusually corrupt. The comic as well as the serious signs of the reaction appear everywhere.
A tone of affected cynicism pervades a portion of our high intellect; and a pretended passion
for prize-fighting shows that men of culture are weary of civilization, and wish to go back
to barbarism for a while. The present head of the Government in England is not only the confederate,
but the counterpart, of the head of the French Empire; and the rule of each denotes the temporary
ascendancy of the same class of motives in their respective nations. An English Liberal is
tempted to despond, when he compares the public life of England in the time of Pym and Hampden
with our public life now. But there is greatness still in the heart of the English nation.

And you, too, have you not known in the course of your history a slack-tide of faith, a less
aspiring hour? Have not you, too, known a temporary ascendancy of material over spiritual interests,
a lowering of the moral tone, a readiness, for the sake of ease and peace and secure enjoyment,
to compromise with evil? Have not you, too, felt the tyranny of wealth, putting the higher
motives for a moment under its feet? What else has brought these calamities upon you? What
else bowed your necks to the yoke which you are now breaking at so great a cost? Often and
long in the life of every nation, though the tide is still advancing, the wave recedes. Often
and long the fears of man overcome his hopes; but in the end the hopes of man overcome his
fears. Your regeneration, when it is achieved, will set forward the regeneration of the European
nations. It is the function which all nations, which all men, in their wavering progress towards
perfection, perform in turn for each other.

This temporary lowering of the moral tone in English society has extended to the question of
Slavery. It has deadened our feelings on that subject, though I hope without shaking our principles.
You ask whether England can have been sincere in her enmity to Slavery, when she refuses sympathy
to you in your struggle with the Slave Power. Talleyrand, cynic as he was, knew that she was
sincere, though he said that not a man in France thought so but himself. She redeemed her own
slaves with a great price. She sacrificed her West-Indian interest. She counts that achievement
higher than her victories. She spends annually much money and many lives and risks much enmity
in her crusade against the slave-trade. When your Southern statesmen have tried to tamper with
her, they have found her true. If they had bid us choose between a concession to their designs
and war, all aristocratic as we are, we should have chosen war. Every Englishman who takes
the Southern side is compelled by public opinion to preface his advocacy with a disclaimer
of all sympathy with Slavery. The agent of the slave-owners in England, Mr. Spence, pleads
their cause to the English people on the ground of gradual emancipation. Once the "Times" ventured
to speak in defence of Slavery, and the attempt was never made again. The principle, I say,
holds firm among the mass of the people; but on this, as on other moral questions, we are not
in our noblest mood.

In justice to my country, however, let me remind you that you did not--perhaps you could not--set
the issue between Freedom and Slavery plainly before us at the outset; you did not--perhaps
you could not--set it plainly before yourselves. With the progress of the struggle your convictions
have been strengthened, and the fetters of legal restriction have been smitten off by the hammer
of war. But your rulers began with disclaimers of Anti-Slavery designs. You cannot be surprised,
if our people took your rulers at their word, or if, notwithstanding your change,--a change
which they imagined to be wrought merely by expediency,--they retained their first impression
as to the object of the war, an impression which the advocates of the South used every art
to perpetuate in their minds. That the opponents of Slavery in England should desire the restoration
of the Union with Slavery, and with Slavery strengthened, as they expected it would be, by
new concessions, was what you could not reasonably expect. And remember--I say it not with
any desire to trench on American politics or to pass judgment on American parties--that the
restoration of the Union with Slavery is what a large section of your people, and one of the
candidates for your Presidency, are in fact ready to embrace now.

Had you been able to say plainly at the outset that you were fighting against Slavery, the
English people would scarcely have given ear to the cunning fiction of Mr. Spence. It would
scarcely have been brought to believe that this great contest was only about a Tariff. It would
have seen that the Southern planter, if he was a Free-Trader, was a Free-Trader not from enlightenment,
but because from the degradation of labor in his dominions he had no manufactures to support;
and that he was in fact a protectionist of his only home production which feared competition,--the
home-bred slave. I have heard Mr. Spence's book called the most successful lie in history.
Very successful it certainly was, and its influence in misleading England ought not to be overlooked.
It was written with great skill, and it came out just at the right time, before people had
formed their opinions, and when they were glad to have a theory presented to their minds. But
its success would have been short-lived, had it not received what seemed authoritative confirmation
from the language of statesmen here.

I might mention many other things which have influenced opinion in the wrong way: the admiration
felt by our people, and, to your honor, equally felt by you, for the valor and self-devotion
which have been shown by the Southerners, and which, when they have submitted to the law, will
entitle them to be the fellow-citizens of freemen; a careless, but not ungenerous, sympathy
for that which, by men ignorant of the tremendous strength of a Slave Power, was taken to be
the weaker side; the doubt really, and, considering the conflict of opinion here, not unpardonably,
entertained as to the question of State Sovereignty and the right of Secession. All these motives,
though they operate against your cause, are different from hatred of you. But there are two
points to which in justice to my country I must especially call attention.

The first is this,--that you have not yourselves been of one mind in this matter, nor has the
voice of your own people been unanimous. No English speaker or journal has denounced the war
or reviled the conduct of your Government more bitterly than a portion of American politicians
and a section of the American press. The worst things said in England of your statesmen, of
your generals, of your armies, of your contractors, of your social state and character as a
people, have been but the echo of things which have been said here. If the New-York correspondents
of some English journals have been virulent and calumnious, their virulence and their calumnies
have been drawn, to a great extent, from the American circles in which they have lived. No
slanders poured by English ignorance or malevolence on American society have been so foul as
those which came from a renegade American writing in one of our Tory journals under the name
of "Manhattan." No lamentations over the subversion of the Constitution and the destruction
of personal liberty have been louder than those of your own Opposition. The chief enemies of
your honor have been those of your own household. The crime of a great mass of our people against
you has, in fact, consisted in believing statements about America made by men whom they knew
to be Americans, and did not know to be disloyal to the cause of their country. I have seen
your soldiers described in an extract from one of your own journals as jail-birds, vagabonds,
and foreigners. I have seen your President accused of wishing to provoke riots in New York
that he might have a pretence for exercising military power. I have seen him accused of sending
to the front, to be thinned, a regiment which was likely to vote against him. I have seen him
accused of decoying his political opponents into forging soldiers' votes in order to discredit
them. What could the "Times" itself say more?

The second point is this. Some of your journals did their best to prevent our people from desiring
your success by declaring that your success would be followed by aggression on us. The drum,
like strong wine, is apt to get into weak heads, especially when they are unaccustomed to the
sound. An Englishman coming among you is soon assured that you do not wish to attack Canada.
Apart from considerations of morality and honor, he finds every man of sense here aware that
extent of territory is your danger, if you wish to be one nation,--and further, that freedom
of development, and not procrustean centralization, is the best thing for the New as well as
for the Old World. But the mass of our people have not been among you; nor do they know that
the hot words sedulously repeated to them by our Southern press are not authentic expressions
of your designs. They are doubly mistaken,--mistaken both in thinking that you wish to seize
Canada, and in thinking that a division of the Union into two hostile nations, which would
compel you to keep a standing army, would render you less dangerous to your neighbors. But
your own demagogues are the authors of the error; and the Monroe doctrine and the Ostend manifesto
are still ringing in our ears. I am an adherent of the Monroe doctrine, if it means, as it
did on the lips of Canning, that the reactionary influence of the old European Governments
is not to be allowed to mar the hopes of man in the New World; but if it means violence, every
one must be against it who respects the rights of nations. When you contrast the feelings of
England towards you with those of other nations, Italy for example, you must remember that
Italy has no Canada. I hope Canada will soon cease to be a cause of mistrust between us. The
political dominion of England over it, since it has had a free constitution of its own, has
dwindled to a mere thread. It is as ripe to be a nation as these Colonies were on the eve of
the American Revolution. As a dependency, it is of no solid value to England since she has
ceased to engross the Colonial trade. It distracts her forces, and prevents her from acting
with her full weight in the affairs of her own quarter of the world. It belongs in every sense
to America, not to Europe; and its peculiar institutions--its extended suffrage, its freedom
from the hereditary principle, its voluntary system in religion, its common schools--are opposed
to those of England, and identical with those of the neighboring States. All this the English
nation is beginning to feel; and it has tried in the case of the Ionian Islands the policy
of moderation, and found that it raises, instead of lowering, our solid reputation and our
real power. The confederation which is now in course of formation between the North-American
Colonies tends manifestly to a further change; it tends to a further change all the more manifestly
because such a tendency is anxiously disclaimed. Yes, Canada will soon cease to trouble and
divide us. But while it is England's, it is England's; and to threaten her with an attack on
it is to threaten a proud nation with outrage and an assault upon its honor.

Finally, if our people have misconstrued your acts, let me conjure you to make due allowance
for our ignorance,--an ignorance which, in many cases, is as dark as night, but which the progress
of events here begins gloriously to dispel. We are not such a nation of travellers as you are,
and scarcely one Englishman has seen America for a hundred Americans that have seen England.
"Why does not Beauregard fly to the assistance of Lee?" said a highly educated Englishman to
an American in England. "Because," was the reply, "the distance is as great as it is from Rome
to Paris." If these three thousand miles of ocean that lie between us could be removed for
a few days, and the two great branches of the Anglo-Saxon race could look each other in the
face, and speak their minds to each other, there would be an end, I believe, of all these fears.
When an Englishman and an American meet, in this country or in England, they are friends, notwithstanding
all that has passed; why not the two nations?

I have not presumed, and shall not presume, to touch on any question that has arisen or may
arise between the Executive Government of my country and the Executive Government of yours.
In England, Liberals have not failed to plead for justice to you, and, as we thought, at the
same time, for the maintenance of English honor. But I will venture to make, in conclusion,
one or two brief remarks as to the general temper in which these questions should be viewed.

In the first place, when great and terrible issues hang upon our acts, perhaps upon our words,
let us control our fancies and distinguish realities from fictions. There hangs over every
great struggle, and especially over every civil war, a hot and hazy atmosphere of excited feeling
which is too apt to distort all objects to the view. In the French Revolution, men were suspected
of being objects of suspicion, and sent to the guillotine for that offence. The same feverish
and delirious fancies prevailed as to the conduct of other nations. All the most natural effects
of a violent revolution--the depreciation of the assignats, the disturbance of trade, the consequent
scarcity of food--were ascribed by frantic rhetoricians to the guineas of Pitt, whose very
limited amount of secret-service money was quite inadequate to the performance of such wonders.
When a foreign nation has given offence, it is turned by popular imagination into a fiend,
and its fiendish influence is traced with appalling clearness in every natural accident that
occurs. I have heard England accused of having built the Chicago Wigwam, with the building
of which she had as much to do as with the building of the Great Pyramid. I have heard it insinuated
that her policy was governed by her share in the Confederate Cotton-Loan. The Confederate Cotton-Loan
is, I believe, four millions and a half. There is an English nobleman whose estates are reputed
to be worth a larger sum. "She is very great," says a French writer, "that odious England."
Odious she may be, but she is great,--too great to be bribed to baseness by a paltry fee.

In the second place, let us distinguish hostile acts, of which an account must of course be
demanded, from mere words, which great nations, secure of their greatness, may afford to let
pass. Your President knows the virtue of silence; but silence is so little the system on either
side of the water, that in the general flux of rhetoric some rash things are sure to be said.
One of our statesmen, while starring it in the Provinces, carelessly throws out the expression
that Jeff Davis has made the South a nation; another says that you are fighting for Empire,
and the South for Independence. Our Prime-Minister is sometimes offensive in his personal bearing
towards you,--as, to our bitter cost, he has often been towards other nations. On the other
hand, your statesmen have said hard things of England; and one of your ambassadors to a great
Continental state published, not in his private, but in his official capacity, language which
made the Northern party in England for a moment hang their heads with shame. A virulence, discreditable
to England, has at times broken forth in our House of Commons,--as a virulence, not creditable
to this country, has at times broken forth in your Congress. But what has the House of Commons
done? Threatening motions were announced in favor of Recognition,--in defence of the Confederate
rams. They were all set aside by the good sense of the House and of the nation. It ended in
a solemn farce,--in the question being put very formally to the Government whether it intended
to recognize the Confederate States, to which the Government replied that it did not.

And when the actions of our Government are in question, fair allowance must be made for the
bad state of International Law. The very term itself is, in fact, as matters at present stand,
a dangerous fiction. There can be no law, in a real sense, where there is no law-giver, no
tribunal, no power of giving legal effect to a sentence,--but where the party on whose side
the law is held to be must after all be left to do himself right with the strong hand. And
one consequence is that governments are induced to rest in narrow technicalities, and to be
ruled by formal precedents, when the question ought to be decided on the broadest grounds of
right. The decision of Lord Stowell, for example, that it is lawful for the captor to burn
an enemy's vessel at sea rather than suffer her to escape, though really applying only to a
case of special necessity, has been supposed to cover a system of burning prizes at sea, which
is opposed to the policy and sentiment of all civilized nations, and which Lord Stowell never
could have had in view. And it must be owned that this war, unexampled in all respects, has
been fruitful of novel questions respecting belligerent rights, on which a Government meaning
no evil might easily be led astray. Among its results we may hope that this revolution will
give birth to a better system of International Law. Would there were reason to hope that it
might lead to the erection of some high tribunal of justice among nations to supersede forever
the dreadful and uncertain ordeal of war! Has the Government of England, in any case where
your right was clear, really done you a wrong? If it has, I trust that the English nation,
temperately and respectfully approached, as a proud nation requires to be, will surely constrain
its Government to make the reparation which becomes its honor.

But let it not be forgotten, that, in the worst of times, at the moment of your lowest depression,
England has refused to recognize the Confederate States, or in any way to interfere in their
behalf; and that the steadiness of this refusal has driven the Confederate envoy, Mr. Mason,
to seek what he deems a more hospitable shore. The inducement of cotton for our idle looms
and our famishing people has been a strong one to our statesmen as well as to our people, and
the Tempter has been at their side. Despotism, like Slavery, is necessarily propagandist. It
cannot bear the contagion, it cannot bear the moral rebuke, of neighboring freedom. The new
French satrapy in Mexico needs some more congenial and some weaker neighbor than the United
Republic, and we have had more than one intimation that this need is felt.

And this suggests one closing word as to our blockade-running. Nothing done on our side, I
should think, can have been more galling, as nothing has been so injurious to your success.
For myself, in common with all who think as I do on these questions, I abhor the blockade-runners;
I heartily wish that the curse of ill-gotten gain may rest on every piece of gold they make;
and never did I feel less proud of my country than when, on my way hither, I saw those vessels
in Halifax sheltered under English guns. But blockade-running is the law; it is the test, in
fact, of an effective blockade. And Englishmen are the blockade-runners, not because England
as a nation is your enemy, but because her merchants are more adventurous and her seamen more
daring than those of any nation but your own. You, I suspect, would not be the least active
of blockade-runners, if we were carrying on a blockade. The nearness of our fortresses at Halifax
and Nassau to your shores, which makes them the haunt of blockade-runners, is not the result
of malice, but of accident,--of most unhappy accident, as I believe. We have not planted them
there for this purpose. They have come down to us among the general inheritance of an age of
conquest, when aggression was thought to be strength and glory,--when all kings and nations
were alike rapacious,--and when the prize remained with us, not because we were below our neighbors
in morality, but because we were more resolute in council and mightier in arms. Our conquering
hour was yours. You, too, were then English citizens. You welcomed the arms of Cromwell to
Jamaica. Your hearts thrilled at the tidings of Blenheim and Ramillies, and exulted in the
thunders of Chatham. You shared the laurels and the conquests of Wolfe. For you and with you
we overthrew France and Spain upon this continent, and made America the land of the Anglo-Saxon
race. Halifax will share the destinies of the North-American confederation,--destinies, as
I said before, not alien to yours. Nassau is an appendage to our West-Indian possessions. Those
possessions are and have long been, and been known to every reasoning Englishman to be, a mere
burden to us. But we have been bound in honor and humanity to protect our emancipated slaves
from a danger which lay near. An ocean of changed thought and feeling has rolled over the memory
of this nation within the last three years. You forget that but yesterday you were the Great
Slave Power.

You, till yesterday, were the great Slave Power. And England, with all her faults and shortcomings,
was the great enemy of slavery. Therefore the slave-owners who had gained possession of your
Government hated her, insulted her, tried to embroil you with her. They represented her, and
I trust not without truth, as restlessly conspiring against the existence of their great institution.
They labored, not in vain, to excite your jealousy of her maritime ambition, when, in enforcing
the right of search and striving to put down the slave-trade, she was really obeying her conscience
and the conscience of mankind. They bore themselves towards her in these controversies as they
bore themselves towards you,--as their character compels them to bear themselves towards all
whom they have to deal. Living in their own homes above law, the proclaimed doctrines of lawless
aggression which alarmed and offended not England alone, but every civilized nation. And this,
as I trust and believe, has been the main cause of the estrangement between us, so far as it
has been an estrangement between the nations, not merely between certain sections and classes.
It is a cause which will henceforth operate no more. A Scandinavian hero, as the Norse legend
tells, waged a terrible combat through a whole night with the dead body of his brother-in-arms,
animated by a Demon; but with the morning the Demon fled.

Other thoughts crowd upon my mind,--thoughts of what the two nations have been to each other
in the past, thoughts of what they may yet be to each other in the future. But these thoughts
will rise in other minds as well as in mine, if they are not stifled by the passion of the
hour. If there is any question to be settled between us, let us settle it without disparagement
to the just claims or the honor of either party, yet, if possible, as kindred nations. For
if we do not, our posterity will curse us. A century hence, the passions which caused the quarrel
will be dead, the black record of the quarrel will survive and be detested. Do what we will
now, we shall not cancel the tie of blood, nor prevent it from hereafter asserting its undying
power. The Englishmen of this day will not prevent those who come after them from being proud
of England's grandest achievement, the sum of all her noblest victories,--the foundation of
this the great Commonwealth of the New World. And you will not prevent the hearts of your children's
children from turning to the birth-place of their nation, the land of their history and of
their early greatness, the land which holds the august monuments of your ancient race, the
works of your illustrious fathers, and their graves.

    GOLDWIN SMITH.

WE ARE A NATION.

The great national triumph we have just achieved renders that foggy and forlorn Second Tuesday
of November the most memorable day of this most memorable year of the war. Under the heavy
curtain of mist that brooded low over the scene, under the sombre clouds of uncertainty that
hung drizzling and oppressive above the whole land, was enacted a drama whose grandeur has
not been surpassed in history. The deep significance of that event it is not easy for the mind
to fathom. As the accumulating majorities for the Union came rolling in, like billows succeeding
billows, heaping up the waters of victory, it was not alone the ship of state that was lifted
bodily over the bar, but all her costly freight of human liberties and human hopes was upborne,
and floated some leagues onward towards the fair haven of the Future.

The first uprising of the nation, when its existence was assailed, was truly a sublime spectacle.
But the last uprising of the same, to confirm with cool deliberation the judgment it pronounced
in its heat, is a spectacle of far higher moral sublimity. That sudden wildfire-blaze of patriotism,
if it was simply a blaze, had long since had time to expire. The Red Sea we had passed through
was surely sufficient to quench any light flame kindled merely in the leaves and brushwood
of our national character. Instead of a brisk and easy conquest of a rash rebellion, such as
seemed at first to be pretty generally anticipated, we had closed with a powerful antagonist
in a struggle which was all the more terrible because it was unforeseen. The country had soon
digested its hot cakes of enthusiasm, and come to the tougher article, the ostrich-diet of
iron determination. If we were a race of flunkies, ample opportunities had been afforded to
have our flunky-ism whipped out of us. If Jonathan was but another blustering Sir Andrew Aguecheek,
he would long before have elicited laughter from the world's aristocratic dress-circle, and
split the ears of the groundlings, by turning from the foe that would fight, and bellowing
forth that worthy gentleman's sentiments:--"An I thought he had been valiant, and so cunning
in fence, I'd have seen him damned ere I'd have challenged him!" But those who looked hopefully
for this conclusion have been disappointed. Even Mr. Carlyle may now perceive that we have
something more than a foul chimney burning itself out over here:--strange that a seer should
thus mistake the glare of a mountain-torch! We have not made war from a mere ebullition of
spite, or as an experiment, or for any base and temporary purpose; but this is a war for humanity,
and for all time. That we are in deadly earnest, that the heart of the nation is in it, and
that this is no effervescent and fickle heart, the momentous Tuesday stands before the world
as the final proof.

True, in that day's winnowing of the national grain, which had been some four years threshing,
plenty of chaff and grit were found. The opposition to the Administration was made up of three
classes. The smallest, but by far the most active class, consisted of reckless politicians,--those
Northern men with Southern principles (if they have anything that can properly be called principles)
who sympathize with the Rebels in arms,--who hold the interests of party to be supreme, and
shrink from no acts that bid fair to advance those interests. They are the grit in the machine.
The second class comprised the sheep which those bad shepherds led,--sheep with a large proportion
of swine intermixed, and many a fanged and dangerous cur, as ignorant as they, doing the will
of his masters,--the brutish class, without enlightenment or moral perception, goaded by prejudice,
and deceived by lies so shallow and foolish that the wonder was how anybody could be duped
by them. Side by side with these, and often mingling with them, was the third class, the so-called
"Conservatives," whose numbers and respectability could alone have kept the warlike young Falstaff
of the expedition in countenance, and induced him to march through Coventry (or rather into
it, for he got no farther) with his motley crew of followers.

This last-named class, when analyzed, is found to be composed of a great variety of elements.
The downright "Hunker" Conservative, who is very likely to pass over to and identify himself
with the first class, hates with a natural, ineradicable hate all political and spiritual advancement.
He takes material and selfish, and consequently low and narrow views of things,--and having
secured for himself and his wife, for his son John and his wife, privilege to eat and sleep
and cohabit, he cannot see the necessity of any further progress. If he is enterprising, it
is to increase his blessings in this world; if devout, it is to perpetuate them in the next:
for sincere religion he has none,--since religion is but another name for Love, inspiring hope,
charity, and a zeal for the welfare of all mankind.--Others are conservative from timidity,
or because they are wedded to tranquility. "Oh yes," they say, "no doubt the cause you are
fighting for is just; but then fighting is so dreadful! Let us have peace,--peace at any cost!"
Good-hearted people as far as they go, but lacking in constitution. To them the fiery torrents
of generosity and heroism are unknown. Numbers of these, it is true, were swept away by the
flood of enthusiasm which prevailed during the first days of the Rebellion; but when it appeared
that the insurgents were not to be overawed and put down by noise,--that making speeches and
hanging out flags would not do the business,--they became alarmed: the thought of actual bloodshed,
and taxes, and a disturbance of trade developed the Aguecheek. "Good heavens!" said they, picking
up the hats they has tossed with cheers into the sky, and carefully brushing down the ruffled
nap to its former respectable smoothness, "this will never do! we can't frighten 'em!" So they
concluded to be frightened themselves, and ran back to their comfortable apron-strings of opinion
held by their grandmothers. Strange as it seems, many of these are persons of piety, taste,
and culture. Yet their culture is retrospective, their taste mere dillettanteism, and their
piety conventional: to whatever is new in theology, or vital in literature, (at least until
the cobwebs of age begin to gather upon it,) and especially to whatever tends to overthrow
or greatly modify the ancient order of things, they are unalterably opposed. If occasionally
one of them becomes desirous of keeping up with the times, or is forced along momentarily by
the stream of events, some defect of mental or moral constitution prevents his progress; and
you are sure to find him soon or late returning to the point from which he started, like those
bits of drift-wood which are always bobbing up and down close under the fall or circling round
and round in the eddies. The trouble is, such sticks float too lightly on the surface of things;
if they carried more heart-ballast, and would sink deeper, the current would bear them on.--Another
variety of the Conservative is the man who is really progressive and right-minded, but extremely
slow. Give him time, and he is certain to form a just judgment, and range himself on the right
side at last. He goes with the rest only so far as they travel his road, and his lagging is
pretty sure to be atoned for by earnest endeavor in the end. With these are to be classed numerous
other varieties: those who are "Hunkerish" on account of some strange spiritual obtuseness,
or from misanthropy, or perverseness, or self-conceit, or a cold and sluggish temperament,
or from weak, human sympathies governed by strong political prejudice,--together with those
countless larvæ and tadpoles, the small-fry of sons and nephews, of individuality yet undeveloped,
who are conservative because their fathers and uncles are conservative.

Such was the Opposition, to which we have devoted so many words, because, though signally defeated,
much of its power and influence survives. The fact that it proved to be as large as it was
is by no means discouraging: that there should have been so much flabby and diseased flesh
on the body-politic was to have been expected; and that it would show itself chiefly in the
large cities, where foul humors and leprosy are sure to break out, if anywhere, upon slight
irritation, (contrast the corrupt vote of New York City with Missouri and Maryland giving their
voices for freedom!) was likewise foreseen. That the malady continues, and by what curative
process it is to be subdued and rendered harmless,--this is what concerns us now.

We have at last demonstrated, to the satisfaction of our arrogant Southern friends, let us
trust, that the despised Yankee, the dollar-worshipper, is as prompt to fight for a principle
as they for power and a mistaken right of property,--ready to give blood and treasure without
stint, all for an idea; and that, having reluctantly set his foot in gore, to draw back is
not possible to him, for his heart is indomitable, and his soul relentless,--in his soul sits
Nemesis herself. We have taught the slaveholding insolence the final lesson, that there is
absolutely nothing to hope from the pusillanimity it counted upon. To the world abroad, also,
that Tuesday's portentous snow-storm of ballots, covering every vestige of treason here, to
the trail of the Copperhead, and whitening the face of the whole land with a purer faith, will
be more convincing than our victories in the field. The bubble of Republicanism, which was
to display such alacrity at bursting, is not the childish thing it was deemed, but granitic,
with a fiery, throbbing core; its outward form no mere flashy film, blown out of chimeras and
dreams, but a creation from the solid strata of human experience, upheaved here by the birth-throes
of a new era:--

    "With inward fires and pain,
    It rose a bubble from the plain,"

secure and enduring as Monadnock or Mount Washington.

We have proved that we are a nation equal to the task of self-discipline and self-control,--a
new thing on this planet. Hitherto, on the stage of history, kings and princes have been the
star-actors: in them all the interest of the scene has centred: they and a few grand favorites
were everything, and all the rest supernumeraries, "a level immensity of foolish small people,"
of no utility except to support them in their pompous parts. But we have found that "Hamlet"
does very well with Hamlet left out. In place of the prince we will have a principle. Persons
are of no account: the President is of no account simply as a man. Here, at last, Humanity
has flowered; here has blossomed a new race of men, capable of postponing persons to uses,
and private preferences to the public good, of subjecting its wildest passions to a sense of
justice,--qualities so rare, that, when they are most strikingly manifested in us, foreign
observers stand astonished and incredulous. Accustomed to seeing other races carried away by
their own frenzy the moment they break free from despotic restraint and attempt to act for
themselves, they cannot believe that Americans actually have that uncommon virtue, self-control.
The predictions of the London "Times" with regard to us have always proved such ludicrous failures,
because they have been based upon this false estimate of our temper. Taking for granted that
we are a mob, and that a mob is an idiot, whose speech and actions are void of reason, "full
of sound and fury, signifying nothing," the Thunderer continues to prophesy evil of us; and
when, where madness was most confidently looked for, we exhibit the coolest sense, it can think
of nothing better to do than to denounce us for our inconsistencies! Yet the self-control we
claim for ourselves comes from no lack of caloric: caloric we possess in abundance, though
of a stiller sort than that with which the world has been hitherto acquainted. Our friend from
the backwoods thought there was no fire in the coal-furnace, because he could not hear it roar
and crackle, and was afterwards amazed at its steady intensity of heat. Our misguided Southern
brethren had the same opinion of Northern character, and burned their hands most deplorably
when they laid hold of it.

They have discovered their mistake. Our Transatlantic neighbors have also, by this time, discovered
theirs. Moreover, we (and this is the main thing) have caught a glimpse of ourselves in the
glass of the last election. Henceforth let us have faith in our destiny. Let us once more open
our maps, and, by the light of that day's revelation, look at the grand outlines and limitless
possibilities of our country. Look at the old States and the new, and at the future States!
Behold the vast plains of Texas and the Indian Territory,--the rivers of Arizona, Dakotah,
and Utah,--Montana, Idaho, Colorado, and New Mexico, with their magnificent mountain-chains,--Nevada,
and the Pacific States,--Washington, Oregon, and California, each alone capable of becoming
another New England! What a home is this for the nation that is to be! Let us consider well
our advantages, be true to the inspiration that is in us, put aside at once and forever the
thought of failure, and advance with firm and confident steps to the accomplishment of the
grandest mission ever yet intrusted to any people.

True, great humiliations may be still in store for us; for what do we not deserve? When we
consider the inhumanity, the cowardice, the stolid selfishness, of which this people has been
guilty, especially on the subject of negro slavery, we can find no refuge from despair but
in the comforting assurance that God is a God of mercy, as well as of justice.

Let us hasten to atone for our sins, and forward the work of national purification, by doing
our duty--our whole duty--now. One thing is certain: we cannot look for help to other nations,
nor to the amiable disposition of a foe whose pith and pluck are consanguineous with our own,
nor to the agency of individuals. It was written in the beginning that the people which aspired
to make its own laws should also work out its own salvation. For this reason great leaders
have not been given us, and we shall not need them. It is for a nation unstable in its purposes,
and incapable of self-moderation, that the steady hand of a strong ruler is necessary. The
first Napoleon was no more a natural product of the first French Revolution than the present
Emperor is of the last. They might each have sat for the picture of the tyrant springing to
the neck of an unbridled Democracy, drawn by Plato in the eighth book of the "Republic": just
as his description of the excesses which necessitate despotic rule might pass for a description
of the frenzy of 'Ninety-Three:--"When a State thirsts after liberty, and happens to have bad
cup-bearers appointed it, and gets immoderately drunk with an unmixed draught, thereof, it
punishes even the governors." No such inebriety has resulted from the moderate draughts of
that nectar in which this new Western race has indulged; and only the southern and more passionate
portion of it is in any danger of converting its acute "State-Rights" distemper into chronic
despotism. The nation in its childhood needed a paternal Washington; but now it has arrived
at manhood, and it requires, not a great leader, but a magistrate willing himself to be led.
Such a man is Mr. Lincoln: an able, faithful, hard-working citizen, overseeing the affairs
of all the citizens, accepting the guidance of Providence, and conscientiously yielding himself
to be the medium of a people's will, the agent of its destinies. That is all we have any right
to expect of him; and if we expect more, we shall be disappointed. He cannot stretch forth
his hand and save us, although we have now twice elected him to his high place. Upon ourselves,
and upon ourselves alone, under God, success and victory still depend.

What outward duties are to be fulfilled it is needless to recapitulate here,--for have they
not been taught in every loyal pulpit and in every loyal print, in sermon, story, and song,
until there is not a school-boy but knows the lesson? Treason must be defeated in the field,
its armies annihilated, its power destroyed forever. In order to accomplish this, our own armies
must be kept constantly recruited with numbers and with confidence. As for American slavery,
it perishes from the face of the earth utterly. We have had enough of the serpent which the
young Republic warmed in its too kind bosom. Now it dies; there is no help for it: if you object
to the heel upon its head, and place your own head there to sheild it, God pity you, my friend,
for you will have need of more than human pity! This war is to be brought to a triumphant close,
and the cause of the war extirpated, whether you like it or not. You can accept destruction
and ignominy with it, or you may live to rejoice over the most glorious victory and reform
of the age: take your choice: but understand, once for all, that complaint is puerile, and
expostulation but an idle wind in the face of inexorable Fate. Shall we remember our martyred
heroes, our noble, our beloved, who have gone down in this conflict, and sit gloomily content
while the devouring monster survives? Is it nothing that they have fallen, and yet such a wrong
that the fetters of the bondman should fall? Is the claim of property in man so sacred, and
the blood of our brothers so cheap? Have done with this heartless cant,--this prating about
the constitutional rights of traitors! When the Moslem chief was marching to the chastisement
of a revolted tribe, the insurgents, seeing disaster inevitable in a fair field, resorted to
the device of elevating the Koran upon the shafts of their spears, and bearing it before them
into battle. The stratagem succeeded. The fanatical Arabs were filled with horror on finding
that they had lifted their swords against the Book of the Holy Prophet, and fled in confusion,--defeated,
not by the foe, but by their own blind reverence for the letter and outward symbol of the Law.
Thus the first attempt at secession from the Moslem Empire became successful; and the decadence
of that empire was the fatal fruit of that day's folly. In like manner we have had the letter
of the Constitution thrust between us and victory. The leaders of the Opposition carried it
before them, with ostentation and loud pharisaical rant, in the late political battle. But,
much as it has embarrassed and retarded our cause, terrifying and bewildering weak minds, the
device has not availed in the past, and it shall avail still less in the future. The spirit
of the Constitution we shall remember and obey; but the sword of justice, edged with common
sense, must cut its way through everything else, to the very heart of the Rebellion.

Only from ourselves have we anything to fear. Self-distrust is more to be dreaded than foreign
interference or Rebel despotism. The deportment of Great Britain has become more and more respectful
towards us as we have shown ourselves worthy of respect; and even France has of late grown
discreetly reticent on the subject of intervention. But it is said the Rebels will arm their
slaves. Very well; if they think to save their boat by taking the bottom out, in order to make
paddles of it, they are welcome to try the experiment. Are three or four hundred thousand negro
soldiers going to accept from their masters the boon of freedom for themselves only, and not
demand it for their race? Or think you their gratitude towards those masters is so extraordinary,
that they will take arms against their brothers already in the field, and not be liable to
commit the slight error of passing over and fighting by their side? In either case, Mr. Davis's
proposition, if carried out, is practical abolitionism; and we have yet to learn how a tottering
edifice can be rendered any more stable by the removal of its acknowledged "cornerstone." The
plan is violently opposed by the slave-owning classes: for, whatever may be proclaimed to the
contrary, they have risked this war, and devoted themselves to it, believing it to be a war
for the aggrandizement of their peculiar institution; and if that succumbs, where is the gain?
Already their new Government has become to them an object of dread and detestation, and they
are beginning to look back with regretful hearts to the beneficent Union which they were in
such rash haste to destroy. Only the leaders of the Rebellion can hope to gain anything by
so perilous an expedient; for Slavery has become with them a secondary consideration,--no doubt
Mr. Davis is sincere in asserting this,--and they are now ready to sacrifice it to their private
ambition. They are in the position of men who, driven to extremity, will give up everything
else in order to preserve their power, and their necks with it. But let us indulge in no useless
apprehensions on this point. Such a proposition, seriously entertained by the Richmond Government,
is of itself the strongest evidence we could have of the exhaustion of their resources. Every
other means has failed, and this is their last resort. We are reminded of that vivid description,
in one of Cooper's novels, of an Indian in his canoe drawn into the rapids of Niagara and swept
over the falls,--who, in his wild efforts to save himself, continued paddling in the air even
after he had passed the verge of the cataract. So the Confederate craft has reached the brink
of destruction, and we may now look to see some frantic paddling in their air. Or shall we
liken it to Milton's bad angel, flying to his new empire, but dropping into an unexpected "vast
vacuity"?

That "ill chance" has been averted by the last election; and no such "tumultuous cloud" will
gather again, to bear up the lost Anarch, if we courageously act our part. The danger now is
from our own weakness, not from the enemy's strength.

A great and most important work still remains for us. It is not enough to perform simply the
external and obvious duties of the hour. What we would insist on here is the internal and moral
work to be done. Men have never yet given full credit to the power of an idea. With faith,
ye shall remove mountains. A pebble of truth, in the hand of the shepherd-boy of Israel, is
mightier to prevail than the spear like a weaver's beam. How long were the little band of Abolitionists
despised! But they were the cutwater of the national ship. With their revolutionary idea, so
opposed to the universal prejudice, they succeeded at last in moving the entire country, just
as one cog-wheel set against another overcomes its resistance and puts the whole machinery
in motion. The rills of thought, shooting from the heights of a few pure and lofty minds, have
spread out into this sea of practical Abolitionism which now covers the whole land,--although
the sea may be inclined to deny its source. May we, then, charge the pioneers of the Anti-Slavery
sentiment with having caused this war? In the same manner we may regard the coming of Christ
as being the cause of all the wars and persecutions of Christianity.

If such is the force of earnest conviction, consider what we too may do. We have gone to the
polls and voted for the accomplishment of a certain object: far more intelligently than at
the beginning of the war, (for few knew then what we were fighting for,) we have met the enemies
of our country, and defeated them at the ballot-box. But there is another and no less important
vote to be cast. The Twentieth Presidential Election is not the last, even for this year. We
are to continue casting our ballots, every day, and day after day,--nay, year after year, if
necessary,--to the end. We have had political suffrage; but moral suffrage is now called for.
Here woman realizes her rights, so long talked about, and so little understood; here, too,
even the intelligent, patriotic boy and girl can exert an influence. We know something of what
words can do; but how little we appreciate the power which is behind words! By the wishes of
your heart, by the aspirations of your soul, by the energies of your mind and will, you form
about you an atmosphere as real as the air you breathe, although, like that, invisible. Not
a prayer is lost; not a throb of patriotish goes for nothing; never a wave of impulse dies
upon the ethereal deep in which we live and move and have our being. Be filled with the truth
as with life itself; let the divine aura exhale from you wherever you move; and thus you may
do more to overcome the opposition to our cause than when you deposited your ticket in the
box. You may, perhaps, breathe the breath of life into the nostrils of the coldest clay of
conservatism you know: for true it is that men not only catch manners, as they do diseases,
one from another, but that they catch unconscious inspiration also. Boswell, when absent from
London and his hero, acknowledged himself to be empty, vapid; and he became somewhat only when
"impregnated with the Johnsonian ether." So the ether of your own earnest, fervent, patriotic
character may impregnate the spiritless and help to sustain the brave. Consider, moreover,
what an element may be thus generated by the combined hopes and prayers of a whole loyal people!
This is the atmosphere which is to sustain the President and his advisers in their work: this,
although we may not know it, and although they may be unaware, is the vital breath they need
to give them wisdom and power equal to the great crisis; while even the soldiers, in the far-off
fields of conflict, shall feel the agitations of this subtile fluid, this life-supporting oxygen,
buoying up their hopes, and wafting their banners on to victory.

REVIEWS AND LITERARY NOTICES.

     Dissertations and Discussions: Political, Philosophical, and
     Historical. By JOHN STUART MILL. In Three Volumes. 12mo.
     Boston: W. V. Spencer.

At a time of deep national emotion, like the present, it is impossible that we Americans should
not feel some bias of personal affection in reading the works of those great living Englishmen
who have been true to us in the darkest hour. Were it only for his faithful friendship to freedom
and to us, Mr. Mill has a right to claim an attentive audience for every word he has ever written;
and this collection of his miscellaneous writings, covering a period of thirty years, has a
special interest as showing the successive steps by which he has risen to this high attitude
of nobleness.

But apart from these special ties, Mr. Mill claims attention as the most advanced of English
minds, and the ablest, all things considered, of contemporary English writers. His detached
works have long since found a very large American audience,--larger, perhaps, than even their
home-circle of readers; and the sort of biographical interest which attaches to a collection
of shorter essays--giving, as it does, a glimpse at the training of the writer--will more than
compensate for the want of continuity in these volumes, and for the merely local interest which
belongs to many of the subjects treated. Church-rates and the English currency have not to
us even the interest of heraldry, for that at least can offer pictures of mermaids, and great
ingenuity in Latin puns; but, on the other hand, every discussion of the British university-system
has a positive value, in the exceedingly crude and undeveloped condition of American collegiate
methods. There is the same disparity of interest in the different critical essays. Bentham
has hardly exerted an appreciable influence on American thought, and the transitory authority
of Coleridge is now merged in more potent agencies; yet when the essays bearing those great
names were first printed in the periodical then edited by Mill, they made an era in contemporary
English literature, and therefore indirectly modified our own.

Thus, in one way or another, almost all these essays have a value. The style is always clear,
always strong, sometimes pointed, seldom brilliant, never graceful; it is the best current
sample, indeed, of that good, manly, rather colorless English which belongs naturally to Parliamentary
Speeches and Quarterly Reviews. Not being an American, the author may use novel words without
the fear of being called provincial; so that understandable, evidentiary, desiderate, leisured,
and inamoveability stalk at large within his pages. As a controversialist, he is a trifle sharp,
but never actually discourteous; and it is pleasant to see that his chivalry makes him gentlest
in dealing with the humblest, while his lance rings against the formidable shield of a Cambridge
Professor or a Master of Trinity as did that of the disguised Ivanhoe upon the shield of Bois-Guilbert.

The historical essays in this collection are exceedingly admirable, especially the defence
of Pericles and the Athenians, in the second paper on Crete's History. In reading the articles
upon ethical and philosophical questions, one finds more drawbacks. The profoundest truths
can hardly be reached, perhaps, by one who, at the end of his life, as at the beginning, is
a sensationalist in metaphysics and a utilitarian in ethics. It is only when dealing with these
themes that he seems to show any want of thoroughness: unfairness he never shows. In the closing
tract on "Utilitarianism," which the American publishers have added to the English collection,
one feels especially this drawback. As the theory of universal selfishness falls so soon as
one considers that a man is capable of resigning everything that looks like happiness, and
of plunging into apparent misery, because he thinks it right,--so the theory of utilitarianism
falls, when one considers that a man is capable of abstaining from an action that would apparently
be useful to all around him, from a secret conviction that it is wrong in itself. There are
many things which are intrinsically wrong, although, so far as one can see, they would do good
to all around. To assassinate a bad neighbor,--to rob a miser and distribute his goods,--to
marry Rochester, while his insane wife is living, (for Jane Eyre,)--to put to death an imbecile
and uncomfortable grandmother, (for a Feegeean,)--these are actions which are indefensible,
though the balance of public advantages might seem greatly in their favor. It is probable that
at this moment a great good would be done to this nation and to the world by the death of Jefferson
Davis; yet the bare suggestion of his assassination, in the case of Colonel Dahlgren, was received
with a universal shudder, and disavowed as an atrocious slander. But under the rule of utilitarianism,
it is the injuriousness itself which should be the principle of classification, and to prove
an action innoxious is at once to separate it from that class; so that the objection falls.
By his own principles, a murder which would benefit the community is by that very attribute
differenced from ordinary and injurious murders, nor can any good argument be found against
its commission. The possible bad precedent is at best a possible misapprehension, to be sufficiently
averted by concealment, where concealment is practicable.

In dealing with contemporary and practical questions, Mr. Mill shows always pre-eminent ability,
with less of the Insular traits than any living Englishman. While there is perhaps no single
passage in these volumes so thoroughly grand as his argument for religions freedom in his essay
on Liberty,--an argument which the most heretical theologians of either Continent could hardly
have put so boldly or so well,--yet through the whole series of essays there runs the same
fine strain. He repeatedly renews his clear and irresistible appeal for the equal political
rights of the sexes: a point on which there is coming to be but one opinion among the most
advanced minds of Europe and America,--a unanimity which, after the more immediate problem
of Slavery is disposed of, must erelong bring about some practical application of the principle,
in our republican commonwealths. It is interesting to notice in this connection, that Mr. Mill
has included with his own essays the celebrated article by his wife, on "The Enfranchisement
of Women," and has prefixed to it one of the noblest eulogies ever devoted to any wife by any
husband.

He deals with strictly American subjects in the best criticism ever written upon De Tocqueville,
where he shows conclusively the error of that great writer, in attributing to democracy, as
such, many social phenomena which are equally observable under the English monarchy. These
volumes also include--what the English edition of 1859 of course did not contain--the later
essays on "The Contest in America," "The Slave Power," and "Non-Intervention." In treating
of Slavery and of the War, the author rarely commits an error; in dealing with other American
questions, he is sometimes misled by defective information, and cites gravely, with the prelude,
"It is admitted," or "It is understood," statements which have their sole origin in the haste
of travellers or in the croaking of disappointed egotists. The government of the majority does
not end in tyranny: cultivated Americans are not cowards: the best heads are not excluded from
public life: free schools do not tend to stifle free thought, but infinitely to multiply it:
individuality of character is not checked, but healthily trained, by political equality. Six
months in this country would do more to disabuse Mr. Mill, in these matters, than years of
mere reading; and it is a positive injury to his large ideas that he should not take the opportunity
of testing them on the only soil where they are being put in practice. Whenever he shall come,
his welcome is secure. In the mean time, all that we Americans can do to testify to his deserts
is to reprint his writings beautifully, as these are printed,--and to read them universally,
as these will be read.

     Narrative of Privations and Sufferings of United States
     Officers and Soldiers while Prisoners of War in the Hands of
     the Rebel Authorities. Being the Report of a Commission of
     Inquiry, appointed by the United States Sanitary Commission.
     With an Appendix, containing the Testimony. Printed by the U.S.
     Sanitary Commission. Philadelphia.

That uniform thoroughness and accuracy which have marked all that has been done by the Sanitary
Commission, not in the field alone, but in the committee-room and the printing-office, were
never better shown than in this Report. It attempts something which, unless done thoroughly,
was not worth doing; since, on a subject which appeals so strongly to the feelings, mere generalities
and gossip do more harm than good. It is the work of a special Commission of Inquiry, composed
of three physicians, (Drs. Mott, Delafield, and Wallace,) two lawyers, (Messrs. Wilkins and
Hare,)and one clergyman (Mr. Walden). This commission has performed a great amount of labor,
and has digested its result into a form so systematic as to be logically irresistible. The
facts on which the statement rests are a large body of evidence, taken under oath, from prisoners
of both armies, and confirmed by the admissions, carefully collated, of the Rebel press. The
conclusion is, that, in the Southern prisons, "tens of thousands of helpless men have been,
and are now being, disabled and destroyed by a process as certain as poison, and as cruel as
the torture or burning at the stake, because nearly as agonizing and more prolonged."

The next step is to fix the responsibility for all these horrors. All theories of apology--as
that the sufferings were accidental or exceptional, or that, badly as our soldiers may have
fared, the Rebel soldiers fared little better--are taken up and conclusively refuted, the last-named
with especial thoroughness. The inevitable inference drawn by the Commission is, that these
inhumanities were "designedly inflicted on the part of the Rebel Government," and were not
"due to causes which such authorities could not control."

The immediate preparation of this able report is understood to be due to the Rev. Treadwell
Walden, an Episcopal clergyman of Philadelphia, not unknown to the readers of the "Atlantic."
His present work will be the permanent authority for the facts which it records, and will justify
to future generations the suggestion with which it ends, that these cruelties are the legitimate
working of a form of government which takes human slavery for its basis. The record of such
a government is fitly written in these pages: it is as appropriate as is, for a king of Dahomey,
his funeral pyramid of skulls.

     Freedom of Mind in Willing; or, Every Being that Wills a
     Creative First Cause. By ROWLAND G. HAZARD. New York: D.
     Appleton & Co. 12mo. pp. 455.

The State of Rhode Island is the most metaphysically inclined of all the sisterhood, not excepting
South Carolina. A superficial observer or a passing traveller might take just the opposite
view of her tendencies. The stranger who should complete a cycle of sumptuous suppers in Providence,
or spend but a day or two in Newport at the height of the season, might conclude that Matter
with its most substantial appliances, or Fashion with her most fascinating excitements, had
combined to exclude all thoughts of the spiritual from the few square miles over which this
least of the States holds dominion. Should he leave the two capitals of luxurious wealth and
giddy fashion and seek for the haunts of Philosophy among the quiet nooks which her few valleys
and her splendid sea-coast afford, he might judge that meditation had been effectually frightened
from them all, for nowhere can he escape the whir of countless spindles and the clash of thousands
of looms.

But inferences like these may not be trusted, as history demonstrates. The most admirable of
modern treatises in the subtile science, that masterpiece of speculation in matter and style,
"The Minute Philosopher" of Bishop Berkeley, was composed in Rhode Island, and the place is
still indicated where the musing metaphysician is said to have written the greater portion
of the work. That Berkeley's genius did not abandon the region, when he left it, is manifest
from the direction taken by the late Judge Durfee, whose "Pan-Idea," if it cannot be accepted
as in all respects a satisfactory theory of the relations of the spiritual universe, may be
safely taken as an indication of the lofty and daring Platonism of the ingenious author. The
anonymous author of "Language by a Heteroscian" is another thinker of somewhat similar tastes.
If common report do not greatly err, it is the same thinker who in the volume before us solicits
the attention of the philosophic world to his views of the Will. It adds greatly to the interest
of the volume itself, in our view, and we trust will do so in the view of our readers, to know
that he is no studious recluse nor professional philosopher, but active, shrewd, and keen-sighted,
both in his mills, when at home in a fitly named valley, and upon Change, when in Boston or
New York.

Surely Roger Williams, that boldest of idealists, did not live in vain, in that he not only
set apart the State which he founded as a place of refuge for all persons given to free and
daring speculation, but made it a kind of Prospero's Isle, that should never cease to be haunted
by some metaphysical spell.

The appearance of such a work from such a source is of itself most refreshing, as an indication
that a life of earnest devotion to material pursuits is not inconsistent with an ardent appreciation
of the surpassing importance of speculative inquiries. One such example as this is enough to
refute the oft-repeated assertion that in America all philosophy must of course give way before
the absorbing interest in the pursuit of wealth. A few years since we chanced to send a copy
of an American edition of Plato's "Phaedo" to a German Professor. "Eine wirkliche Erscheinung,"
was his reply in acknowledgment, "to see an edition of a work of Plato from America." What
would be his amazement at receiving a copy of a disquisition on the Will written by an American
mill-owner!

It is still more refreshing to find the author so sincere and so earnest an advocate of the
elevating tendency of philosophical studies. There is a charming simplicity in the words with
which his Preface is concluded:--"Whatever opinion may be formed of the success or failure
of any effort to elucidate this subject, I trust it will be admitted that the arguments I have
presented at least tend to show that the investigation may open more elevated and more elevating
views of our position and our powers, and may reveal new modes of influencing our own intellectual
and moral character, and thus have a more immediate, direct, and practical bearing on the progress
of our race in virtue and happiness than any inquiry in physical science." Such testimony,
coupled with the impression made by his argument, is most gratifying, not only in consideration
of the source from which it comes, but also as contrasted with the course of so much of the
speculative philosophy of the day, towards Materialism in Psychology, Necessarianism in Morals,
Naturalism in Philosophy, and Pantheism in Theology.

The doctrine of the writer, or rather his position with respect to theories of the Will, is
distinctly indicated by the title of his volume. It is obvious that he must be a decided asserter
of Liberty as opposed to Necessity who dares to throw down the gauntlet in support of the thesis
that "every being who wills is a creative first cause." All his views of the soul and of its
doings are entirely consistent with the direction which is required by this audacious assertion.
That the soul is an originator in most of its activities is his perpetually asserted theme.
To maintain this he is ready almost to question the reality, as he more than questions the
necessity, of the existence of matter, verging occasionally, on this point, upon Berkeley's
views and style of thinking. The constructive capacities of the intellect are inferred from
the variety of mathematical creations which it originates, as well as from the more diverse
and interesting structures which the never wearied and ever aspiring fantasy is always building.
Should any one question the right of these creations to be, or seek to detract from their importance,
our author is ready to defend them to the utmost in contrast with matter and its claims. Indeed,
the author's exposition of his doctrine of the Will is by itself an inconsiderable source of
interest, when separated from the views of all the functions of the spirit, which are interwoven
with it. In discussing the Will he is necessarily led to treat of its relations to the other
powers and functions of the spirit, and hence by necessity to give his philosophy of the Soul.
This philosophy, briefly described, is one which regards the soul in its nature and its acts,
in its innermost structure and its outmost energies, as capable of and destined to action.
This in also its dignity and its glory. The soul or spirit, so far from being the subject of
material forces, or the outgrowth of successive series of material agencies, or the subtile
product or potence of material laws, is herself the conscious mistress and sovereign of them
all, giving to matter and development and law all their importance, as she condescends to use
these either as the mirror in which her own creations are reflected or the vehicle by which
her acts can be expressed.

How the author maintains and defends this position the limits of this brief notice will not
allow us to specify. The views expressed which have the closest pertinency to the will are
those which lay especial stress upon the soul as capable of wants, and as thus impelled to
action. Emotion and sensibility neither of them qualifies for action. Want must supervene,
to point to the unattained future, to excite to change; and to this want knowledge also must
be added, in order to direct the activity. Under the stimulus thus furnished, the future must
be created, as it were, by the will of the soul itself, before it is made real in fact.

We are not quite sure that we understand the author's doctrine of Want, and its relations to
the activities of the will, nor that, so far as we do understand it, we should accept it. But
we agree with him entirely, that it is precisely by means of and in connection with a correct
analysis of these impelling forces that the real nature and import of the will can be satisfactorily
evolved. Mr. Hazard seems to us to make too little difference between the power of the soul
to act and its power to will or choose. He conceives the will as the capacity which qualifies
for effort of every kind, as the conative power in general, instead of emphasizing it as the
capacity for a special kind of effort, namely, that of moral selection.

The second part of the volume is devoted to a criticism of Edwards, the author on whose "steel
cap," as on that of Hobbes of old, every advocate of liberty is impelled to try the strength
and temper of his weapons. For a critical antagonist, Edwards is admirable, his use of language
being far from precise and consistent, and his definitions and statements, through his extreme
wariness, being vague and vacillating enough to allow abundant material for comment. Of these
advantages Mr. Hazard knows how to avail himself, and shows not a little acuteness in exposing
the untenable positions and the inconsequent reasoning of the New-England dialectician. The
most ingenious of the chapters upon Edwards is that in which he refutes the conclusions drawn
from the foreknowledge of God. His position is the following:--If we concede that the foreknowledge
of God were inconsistent with liberty, and involved the necessity of human volitions, we may
suppose the Supreme Being to forego the exercise of foreknowledge in respect to such events.
But it would not therefore follow that God would be thereby taken by surprise by any such volitions,
or would be incompetent to regulate His own actions or to control the issues of them in governing
the universe. This he seeks to show, very ingeniously, by asserting that the Supreme Being
must be competent to foresee not the actual volition that will be made, but every variety that
is possible; and as a consummate chess-player provides by comprehensive forecast against every
possible move which his antagonist can make, and has ready a counter-move, so may we, on the
supposition suggested, conceive the Supreme Being as fully competent, without the foreknowledge
of the actual, by means of His foreknowledge of the possible, to control and govern the course
of the future. This solution is certainly ingenious, and doubtless original with the author.
It has in all probability occurred to other minds; but, inasmuch as the advocate for freedom
does not usually allow that he is shut up to the alternative of either denying the divine purpose
or abandoning human freedom, the suggestion of the author has not often, if ever, been seriously
urged before. But we have no space for critical comments.

The style of the author is good. With some diffuseness, he is usually clear and animated. The
circumstances that he has approached the subject in his own way, independently of the method
of books and the technics of the schools, has lent great freshness to his thoughts and illustrations.
The occasional observations which he throws in are always ingenious and sometimes profound.
He shows himself at every turn to be an acute observer, a comprehensive thinker, and deeply
imbued with the meditative spirit. The defects incidental to his peculiar training are more
than compensated by the freshness of his manner and the directness of his language. More interesting
still is the imaginative tendency which gives to many of his passages the charm of poetic feeling,
and elevates them to the truly Platonic rhythm. There are single sentences, and now and then
entire paragraphs, which are gems in their way, that sparkle none the less for the plain setting
of common sense and unpretending diction by which they are relieved.

We ought to add that the attitude of the author in respect to moral and religious truth is
truly, but not obtrusively, reverent. Though he asserts for man the dignity that pertains to
a creator, yet he never forgets the limits under which and the materials out of which his creations
are wrought. His Theism is outspoken and sincere.

Whatever judgment may be passed upon this volume in the schools of philosophy or theology,
all truth-loving men will agree that it brings honor to the literature and thought of the country.
No man can read a few of the many passages of refined thought and sagacious observation with
which the volume abounds, without acknowledging the presence of philosophic genius. No one
can read the passages with which each principal division of the work concludes, without admiring
the fine strains which indicate the presence of genius inspired by poetic feeling and elevated
by adoring reverence. We are sure that the fit, though scanty, audience from whom the author
craves a kindly judgment will cheerfully render to him far more than this, even their unfeigned
admiration.

     Military Bridges: With Suggestions of New Expedients and
     Constructions for crossing Streams and Chasms; including, also,
     Designs for Trestle and Truss Bridges for Military Railroads.
     Adapted especially to the Wants of the Service in the United
     States. By HERMANN HAUPT, late Chief of Bureau in Charge of the
     Construction and Operation of United States Military Railways,
     etc. New York: D. Van Nostrand. 8vo. pp. 310.

There is in the War Department at Washington a series of splendid photographs, illustrative
of scenes along the line of march of our armies in Virginia, and depicting minutely the great
pioneer labor of transporting troops and ammunition, giving evidence of the greatest engineering
genius, and the illimitable resource that has been evoked by this dreadful War of Rebellion.

The book before us is the result of these operations reduced to form. The author's name has
for the last twenty-five years been associated with most of the great works of internal improvement
in this country, and is familiar to every Massachusetts man as connected with the great railroad-enterprise
of the State,--the Hoosac Tunnel.

The professional reputation of the author of "The General Theory of Bridge-Construction" would
of itself be a sufficient guaranty that a new work from the same source would be entitled to
consideration. General Haupt does not often appear before the public as an author: his works
are few, but of rare merit. The first which appeared, "The General Theory of Bridge-Construction,"
was the fruit of many years of experiment, observation, and calculation, and at once established
his reputation in Europe and America, as unequalled in the specialty of Bridges. This work
was not only the first, but up to the present time is the only publication in which the action
of the parts in a complicated system is explained, and the direction and intensity of each
and every strain brought within the reach of mathematical formulas, and rendered accurately
determinable. Before the appearance of this book it is probable that not another engineer in
the world could be found able to calculate the strain upon every sort of bridge-truss, but
only on certain simple forms and combinations. Now, such calculations can be made by any student
in any institution where civil engineering is taught thoroughly, and where "Haupt on Bridges"
is used as a text-book. Professor Gillespie, writing from Europe, remarked that the greatest
engineer of the age, Robert Stephenson, and his distinguished associates, had spoken of this
book in terms of the highest commendation.

After the publication of the controversial papers between Messrs. Stephenson and Fairbairn
in regard to the Britannia Bridge, it became apparent that neither of these gentlemen, with
all their calculations and expenditures in experiments, had determined the proper distribution
of the strains, and the size and strength required for the side-plates of tubular bridges,
but only for those at the top and bottom. General Haupt solved the problem mathematically,
and sent a communication on the subject to the American Association for the Advancement of
Science, which has been extensively copied into the scientific journals of Europe, and has
added largely to the reputation of its author. In the Victoria Bridge at Montreal, the distribution
of material in the vertical plates conforms to the proportions given by General Haupt.

About the year 1853, General Haupt, then Chief Engineer of the Pennsylvania Railroad, reviewed
the work of Charles Ellett on the Ohio and Mississippi Rivers, with other plans of improvement
that had been suggested, and, in a pamphlet of about a hundred pages, proposed a novel, bold,
and simple method for the improvement of these rivers, costing scarcely a tenth as much as
the estimated expense of some of the other methods, and promising greater durability and efficacy.
The Pittsburg Board of Trade recently appointed a scientific commission to investigate the
whole subject; and their report, which is thorough and exhaustive, gives unanimously the preference
to the plan of General Haupt, as the only practicable mode of improving the Ohio River, so
as to insure a permanent depth of water of not less than six feet. In passing, we would remark
that one of the greatest difficulties the War Department has had to contend with has been the
lack of suitable navigation on the Ohio River, and it is to be regretted that Government did
not at once seize upon the plans of General Haupt and carry them into execution.

In the spring of 1862, General Haupt was solicited to take charge of the reconstruction of
the railroad from Acquia Creek to Fredericksburg. Without material other than that furnished
by forests two miles distant, and without skilled mechanics, but simply by the aid of common
soldiers who had no previous instruction, he erected, in nine days, a structure eighty feet
high and four hundred feet long, which for more than a year carried the immense railroad-trains
supplying the Army of the Potomac. It was visited and critically examined by officers in the
foreign service, as a remarkable specimen of bold and successful military engineering.

Major-General McDowell, in his defence before the Court of Inquiry, made the following statement
in regard to the Potomac-Creek Bridge, on the line of the Richmond, Fredericksburg, and Potomac
Railroad.

     "The large railroad-bridge over the Rappahannock, some six
     hundred feet long by sixty-five feet high, and the larger part
     of the one over Potomac Creek, some four hundred feet long by
     eighty feet high, were built from the trees cut down by the
     troops in the vicinity, and this without those troops losing
     their discipline or their instruction as soldiers. The work
     they did excited, to a high degree, the wonder and admiration
     of several distinguished foreign officers, who had never
     imagined such constructions possible by such means, and in such
     a way, in the time in which they were done.

     "The Potomac-Run Bridge is a most remarkable structure. When it
     is considered, that, in the campaigns of Napoleon,
     trestle-bridges of more than one story, even of moderate
     height, were regarded as impracticable, and that, too, for
     common military roads, it is not difficult to understand why
     distinguished Europeans should express surprise at so bold a
     specimen of American military engineering. It is a structure
     which ignores all the rules and precedents of military science
     as laid down in books. It is constructed chiefly of round
     sticks cut from the woods, and not even divested of bark; the
     legs of the trestles are braced with round poles. It is in four
     stories, three of trestles and one of crib-work. The total
     height from the deepest part of the stream to the rail is
     nearly eighty feet. It carries daily from ten to twenty heavy
     railway-trains in both directions, and has withstood several
     severe freshets and storms without injury.

     "This bridge was built in May, 1862, in nine working-days,
     during which time the greater part of the material was cut and
     hauled. It contains more than two million feet of lumber. The
     original structure, which it replaced, required as many months
     as this did days. It was constructed by the common soldiers of
     the Army of the Rappahannock, (command of Major-General
     McDowell,) under the supervision of his aide-de-camp, Colonel,
     now Brigadier-General, Hermann Haupt, Chief of Railroad
     Construction and Transportation."

A fine lithographic drawing of this bridge, taken from a photograph, forms the frontispiece
to the volume before us.

Previous to the Battle of Chancellorsville, General Haupt received instructions to prepare
for a rapid advance of the Army of the Potomac towards Richmond. He provided a sufficient amount
of material to rebuild all the bridges between Fredericksburg and Richmond, and adopted the
bold and novel expedient of portable railroad-bridge trusses. These trusses were built in advance,
in spans of sixty feet; they were to be carried whole on cars to the end of the track, then
dragged like logs, with the aid of timber-wheels and oxen, to the sites of the bridges, where
they were to be raised bodily on wooden piers, and the rails laid over them. The reverse at
Chancellorsville prevented this plan from being carried into effect; but four of these spans
were used to replace the trestle-bridge across the Acquia Creek, where they were tested in
actual use, and answered perfectly.

When informed of the contemplated advance on Richmond, General Haupt concluded to replace the
trestle-bridge across Potomac Creek by the military truss-bridge, which was of a more permanent
character. The trestle-bridge had performed good service for more than a year, but, as it obstructed
the water-way of the stream too much, and as the preservation of the communications would become
of even greater importance after the advance than it had previously been, it was thought best
to take it down. General Hooker, having heard of this determination, sent for General Haupt
in much alarm, and inquired if the report as to the proposed rebuilding of the bridge was true,
and protested against having it disturbed, saying that he needed all the supplies that could
be run forward, and could not allow a suspension of transportation even for a day. General
Haupt replied, that he was willing to be held responsible for results, but must be permitted
to control his own means; he did not ask for a suspension of transportation; he would take
down the high bridge and build a permanent bridge on the piers, and would not detain a single
train even for an hour. General Hooker and staff declared that they did not believe such a
feat possible; yet it was actually accomplished without any detention to the trains whatever,
and in a period of time so brief as to be almost incredible. In less than two days the trusses
of the three spans were placed in position.

If there is any one faculty which General Haupt appears to possess in a preëminent degree,
it is resource. He never finds an engineering problem so difficult that some satisfactory mode
of solution does not present itself to his mind. He seems to comprehend intuitively the difficulties
of a position, and the means of surmounting them. He never waits; if he cannot readily obtain
the material he desires, he takes that at hand. His new work on "Military Bridges" exhibits
this power of resource in a remarkable degree; it is full of expedients, novel, practical,
and useful, among which may be mentioned expedients for crossing streams in front of the enemy
by means of blanket-boats,--ingenious substitutes for pontoon-bridges, floats, and floating-bridges,--plans
for the complete destruction of railroad bridges and track, and for reconstructing track,--modes
of defence for lines of road, etc.: for the book, be it observed, is not limited in its contents
to the single subject indicated by its title.

The design of the author, as stated in the Introduction, appears to have been to give to the
army a practically useful book. He has not failed to draw from other sources where suitable
material was furnished, an indebtedness which he has gracefully acknowledged; but a great part
of the book contains new and original plans and expedients, the fruits of the experience and
observation of the author while in charge of the construction and transportation for the armies
of the Rappahannock, of Virginia, and of the Potomac, under Generals McDowell, Pope, McClellan,
Burnside, Hooker, and Meade. It is a book no officer can afford to be without; and to the general
reader who wishes to be thoroughly versed in the operations of the war, it will commend itself
as replete with information on this subject.

     Meditations on the Essence of Christianity, and on the
     Religious Questions of the Day. By M. GUIZOT. Translated from
     the French under the Superintendence of the Author. London:
     JOHN MURRAY.

Whoever is familiar with religious controversies, past and present, has not failed to notice
of late an improvement in their tone, for which we cannot be too deeply thankful. This does
not arise solely from the neglect which now prevails of the ancient and highly recommended
plan of imprisoning, torturing, and roasting such obstinate heretics as are too obtuse or too
sharp-sighted to yield to milder methods of treatment. Such incidents in history as the exposure
of Christians to hungry beasts in the Colosseum, a Smithfield burnt-offering of persistent
saints, or a Spanish auto-da-fe, with attending civic, ecclesiastical, and sometimes even royal
functionaries, and wide-encircling half-rejoicing and half-compassionate multitudes, were not
without their charms and compensations for victims blessed with a fervid fancy or a deathless
purpose. These cruel scenes associated such with the illustrious dead who have held life cheaper
than truth, and gave them an opportunity of saying to countless multitudes such as no pulpit-orator
could attract and sway,--"See how Christians die!" The liability to such trials turned away
the fickle from the assembly of the faithful and attracted the magnanimous. When grim Puritans,
in our early history, broke the stubborn necks of peace-preaching Quakers, the latter often
thought it a special favor from Providence that they were permitted to bear so striking a testimony
against religious fanaticism. They felt, like John Brown in his Virginian prison, that the
best service they could render to the cause they had loved so well was to love it even unto death.

Such heroic treatment always relieves any cause from contemptuous neglect, the one thing which
is always harder to bear than the fires of martyrdom. Every reader of Bunyan knows that he
complains far less of his twelve years' imprisonment than he exults over the success of his
prison born, world-ranging Pilgrim. He would doubtless have preferred lying in that "den,"
Bedford jail, other twelve years to being unable to say,--

    "My Pilgrim's book has travelled sea and land,
    Yet could I never come to understand
    That it was slighted or turned out of door
    By any kingdom, were they rich or poor."

The dreariest period in religious discussion commonly occurs when men have just ceased to inflict
legal penalties upon the heterodox, but have not yet learned those amenities which lend so
sweet and gentle a dignity to debate. In looking over the dusty pamphlets which entomb so many
clerical controversies of our Colonial times, it has often seemed as though we had lighted
on some bar-room wrangle, translated out of its original billingsgate into scholarly classical
quotations and wofully wrested tests of Holy Writ. This illusion seems all the more probable
when we remember that the potations which inspired the loose jester and the ministerial pamphleteer
of that period but too often flowed from the same generous tap. This phase of theological dispute
is best typified in that eminent English divine who wrote,--"I say, without the least heat
whatever, that Mr. Wesley lies." The manner in which such reverend disputants sought to force
their conclusions on the reluctant has not infrequently reminded us of sturdy old Grimshawe,
the predecessor of Bronté at Haworth, of whom Mrs. Gaskell reports, that, finding so many of
his parishioners inclined to loiter away their Sundays at the ale-house as greatly to thin
the attendance upon his ministry, he was wont to rush in upon them armed with a heavy whip,
and scourge them with many a painful stroke to church, where, doubtless, he scourged them again
with still more painful sermons.

But, bad as were the controversial habits of the clergy, those of their skeptical opponents
were still worse. That was surely a strange state of things where such freethinking as the
"Age of Reason" could win a wide circulation and considerable credit. But it was not merely
the vulgar among freethinkers who then substituted sophistry and declamation for honesty and
sense. The philosophers of the Institute caught the manners of the rabble. What a revolting
scene does M. Martin sketch in his "Essay on the Life and Works of Bernardin de Saint-Pierre"!
"The Institute had proposed this as a prize-question:--'What institutions are best adapted
to establish the morals of a nation?' Bernardin was to offer the report. The competitors had
treated the theme in the spirit of their judges. Terrified at the perversity of their opinions,
the author of "Studies of Nature" wished to oppose to them more wholesome and consoling ideas,
and he closed his report with one of those morsels of inspiration into which his soul poured
the gentle light of the Gospel. On the appointed day, in the assembled Institute, Bernardin
read his report. The analysis of the memoirs was heard at first with calmness; but, at the
first words of the exposition of the principles of a theistical philosopher, a furious outcry
arose from every part of the hall. Some mocked him, asking where he had seen God, and what
form He bore. Others styled him weak, credulous, superstitious; they threatened to expel him
from the assembly of which he had proved himself unworthy; they even pushed madness so far
as to challenge him to single combat, in order to prove, sword in hand, that there is no God.
Cabanis, celebrated by Carlyle for his dogma, 'Thought is secreted, like bile, somewhere in
the region of the small intestines,' cried out, 'I swear that there is no God, and I demand
that His name shall never be spoken in this place.' The reporter left the members in grave
dispute, not whether there is a God, but whether the mention of His name should be permitted."

We have fallen upon better days. The high debate which is now engaging the attention of Christendom
is conducted, for the most part, on both sides, with distinguished courtesy. Not that the question
at issue is, or is felt to be, any less vital than former ones. The aim of modern free-inquiry
is to remove religious life from the dogmatic basis, upon which, in Christian lands, it has
hitherto stood. Denying the existence, and sometimes the possibility, of a supernatural revelation,
now admitting, now doubting, and now rejecting the personal immortality of the soul, our freethinkers
profess a high regard for the religious culture of the race. They would found a new scientific
faith, and make spiritual life an outgrowth of the soul's devout sensibilities. The soul is
to draw its nutriment from Nature, science, and all inspired books; so that, if preaching is
as fashionable in the new dispensation as under the old, the future saints will be in as bad
a plight as, according to eminent theological authority, were those of a late celebrated divine:--

    "His hearers can't tell you on Sunday beforehand,
    If in that day's discourse they'll be Bibled or Koraned."

But is such a religion possible? M. Guizot thinks not, and comes forward in full philosophical
dignity to repel recent assaults upon supernatural religion. The chief gravity of these attacks
has doubtless consisted in exegetical and historic criticism. M. Guizot deems these matters
of minor consequence, and believes that the most important thing is to settle certain fundamental
metaphysical questions, and correct prevalent erroneous ideas respecting the purpose of revelation.
His book consists of eight Meditations: Upon Natural Problems,--Christian Dogmas,--The Supernatural,--The
Limits of Science,--Revelation,--Inspiration of the Scriptures,--God according to the Bible,--Jesus
according to the Gospel. These themes are presented so skilfully as to attract the interest
of the careless, while challenging the fixed attention of the trained thinker. The reader will
find himself lured on, by the freshness of the author's method of handling, into the very heart
of these profound and difficult questions. He will be charmed to find them treated with calm
penetration and outspoken frankness. No late writer has displayed a better comprehension of
all phases of and parties to the controversy. There is a singular absence of controversial
tone, a marvellous lucidity of statement, and a visible honesty of intention, as refreshing
as they are rare,--while a spirit of warm and tender devotion steals in through the argumentation,
like the odor of unseen flowers through a giant and tangled wood. Yet there is no want of fidelity
to personal convictions, no effort by cunning shifts to bring about an apparent reconciliation
of opponents which the writer knows will not endure. With a firm hand he touches the errors
of contending schools of interpreters, and demands their abandonment. To Rationalist and Hyper-Inspirationist
in their strife he says, like another Moses, "Why smitest thou thy fellow?"

Those who have watched carefully the tendencies of these parties for many years must sometimes
have grown despondent. The progressive school has claimed with unscientific haste the adoption,
as a fundamental principle of Biblical interpretation, of the negation of the supernatural.
Their argument is simply, that human experience disproves the supernatural. Man, a recent comer
upon the globe, who has never kept a very accurate record of his experience, who comes forth
from mystery for a few days of troubled life, and then vanishes in darkness,--he in his short
stay upon earth has watched the play of its laws, which were before him and will remain after
him, and has learned without any revelation that God never has changed, never will, never can
change or suspend them! Who shall assure us that our experience of these laws does not differ
from that of Peter and John, the Apostles? How much better to say of them with Hume, Whatever
the fact, we cannot believe it, or to query with Montaigne, Que sais-je? Far better might we
say that human experience can never overthrow faith in the supernatural, for none can ever
say what has been the experience of the countless dead over whom oblivion broods. Shall a few
savans say, Our experience outweighs the experience of the Hebrews plus one hundred generations
of dead Gentiles plus one universal instinct of humanity? Credat M. Littré, non [Greek: hoi
polloi], M. Guizot, vel Agassiz. But the laws of Nature are uncha----Ah! that is the very point
in dispute. Why can they not alter? Because they are invari----Tut! Well, then, b-e-c-a-u-s-e----When
you find a good argument, put it into that blank. Till then, adieu.

    "There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio,
    Than are dreamt of in your philosophy."

Those who claim a plenary verbal inspiration as essential to a real revelation are, according
to M. Guizot, equally remote from a truly scientific spirit. Errors in rhetoric and grammar,
passages where the writers speak of astronomical and geological matters in consonance with
the prevailing, but, in many cases, mistaken theories of their times, being pointed out in
the Bible, these cry out, "There can be no real errors in an inspired book,"--and we are at
once amazed and disgusted to hear men deny the reality of things which they can but perceive,
quite as sturdily as the Port-Royalists refused to allow the presence of sundry propositions
in their books, which, notwithstanding the Pope's infallible assertion, they had no recollection
of thinking or writing, which they supposed they had always hated and disavowed, and which
they could by no ingenuity of search discover. Sir Thomas Browne might enjoy, could he revisit
the world, the privilege of seeing many who are reduced to defend their faith with Tertullian's
desperate resolution,--"It is certain, because it is impossible." If ever we escape from such
ineptitude, it will come about by the diffusion of a more philosophic temper, and the use of
a logic that shall refuse to exclude the facts of human nature from fair treatment, that shall
embrace and account for all the questions involved, and that shall decline to receive as truth
errors of finite science because found in an inspired book. We welcome this volume as an example
of the right spirit and tendency in these grave discussions, and shall look eagerly for the
promised three succeeding ones.

This translation, though "executed under the superintendence of the author," evidently does
no justice to the original. We have not seen the book in French, but we venture to say that
M. Guizot never wrote French which could answer to this version, awkward, careless, and sometimes
obscure. A certain picture of dull and ancient aspect, which had long passed for an original
from the hand of Leonardo da Vinci, and, despite the raptures of sentimental people who sought
to tickle their own vanity by pretending to perceive in it the marks of its high origin, had
commonly awakened only a sigh of regret over the transitoriness of pictorial glory, fell at
length into the hands of a skilful artist. By careful examination, this worthy person became
satisfied that the painting was indeed all that had been claimed, but that its primal splendors
had been obscured by the defacing brush of some incompetent restorer. With loving care he removed
the dimming colors, and to an admiring world was revealed anew the Christ of the Supper. Will
not some American publisher perform a like kindly function for Guizot?

     History of the Anti-Slavery Measures of the Thirty-Seventh and
     Thirty-Eighth United States Congress, 1861-64. By HENRY
     WILSON. Boston: Walker, Wise, & Co. 12mo. pp. 384.

Senator Wilson is admirably qualified to record the anti-slavery legislation in which he has
borne so prominent and honorable a part. Few but those engaged in debates can thoroughly understand
their salient points, and fix upon the precise sentences in which the position, arguments,
and animating spirit of opposite parties are stated and condensed. The present volume is a
labor-saving machine of great power to all who desire or need a clear view of the course of
Congressional legislation on measures of emancipation, but who prefer to rest in ignorance
rather than wade through the debates as reported in the "Congressional Globe," striving to
catch, amid the waste of words, the leading ideas or passions on which questions turn.

The first thing which strikes the reader in Mr. Wilson's well-executed epitome is the gradual
character of this anti-slavery legislation, and the general subordination of philanthropic
to military considerations in its conduct. The questions were not taken up in the order of
their abstract importance, but as they pressed on the practical judgment for settlement in
exigencies of the Government. When Slavery became an obstruction to the progress of the national
arms, opposition to it was the dictate of prudence as well as of conscience, and its defenders
at once placed themselves in the position of being more interested in the preservation of slavery
than in the preservation of the nation. The Republicans, charged heretofore with sacrificing
the expedient to the right, could now retort that their opponents were sacrificing the expedient
to the wrong.

Senator Wilson's volume gives the history of twenty-three anti-slavery measures, in the order
of their inception and discussion. Among these are the emancipation of slaves used for insurrectionary
purposes,--the forbidding of persons in the army to return fugitive slaves,--the abolition
of slavery in the District of Columbia,--the President's proposition to aid States in the abolition
of slavery,--the prohibition of slavery in the Territories,--the confiscation and emancipation
bill of Senator Clark,--the appointment of diplomatic representatives to Hayti and Liberia,--the
bill for the suppression of the African slave-trade,--the enrolment and pay of colored soldiers,--the
anti-slavery Amendment to the Constitution,--the bill to aid the States to emancipate their
slaves,--and the reconstruction of Rebel States. The account of the introduction of these and
other measures, and the debates on them, are given by Mr. Wilson with brevity, fairness, and
skill. A great deal of the animation of the discussion, and of the clash and conflict of individual
opinions and passions, is preserved in the epitome, so that the book has the interest which
clings to all accounts of verbal battles on whose issue great principles are staked. As the
words as well as the arguments of the debates are given, and as the sentences chosen are those
in which the characters of the speakers find expression, the effect is often dramatic. It cannot
fail to be observed, in reading these reports, that there is a prevailing vulgarity of tone
in the declarations of the champions of Slavery. They boldly avow the lowest and most selfish
views in the coarsest languages and scout and deride all elevation of feeling and thought in
matters affecting the rights of the poor and oppressed. Their opinions outrage civility as
well as Christianity; and while they make a boast of being gentlemen, they hardly rise above
the prejudices of boors. Principles which have become truisms, and which it is a disgrace for
an educated man not to admit, they boldly denounce as pestilent paradoxes; and in reading Mr.
Wilson's book an occasional shock of shame must be felt by the most imperturbable politician,
at the spectacle of the legislature of "a model republic" experiencing a fierce resistance
in the attempt to establish indisputable truths.

Most of the questions here vehemently discussed should, it might be supposed, be settled without
discussion by the plain average sense and conscience of any body of men deserving to live in
the nineteenth century; but so completely have the defenders of Slavery substituted will and
passion for reason and morality, and so long have they been accustomed to have their insolent
absurdities rule the politics of the nation, that the passage of the bills whose varying fortunes
Mr. Wilson records must be considered the greatest triumph of liberty and justice which our
legislative annals afford. And in that triumph the historian of the Anti-Slavery Measures may
justly claim to have had a distinguished part. Honest, able, industrious, intelligent, indefatigable,
zealous for his cause, yet flexible to events, gifted at once with practical sagacity and strong
convictions, and with his whole heart and mind absorbed in the business of politics and legislation,
he has proved himself an excellent workman in that difficult task by which facts are made to
take the impress of ideas, and the principles of equity are embodied in the laws of the land.

RECENT AMERICAN PUBLICATIONS

RECEIVED BY THE EDITORS OF THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY.

A National Currency. By Sidney George Fisher, Author of "The Trial of the Constitution," etc.
Reprinted from the North American Review for July, 1864. Philadelphia. J. B. Lippincott & Co.
16mo. paper, pp. 83. 25 cents.

Our World: or, First Lessons in Geography, for Children. By Mary L. Hall. Boston. Crosby &
Nichols. 12mo. pp. 177. $1.00.

The Merchant Mechanic. A Tale of "New England Athens." By Mary A. Howe. New York. John Bradburn.
12mo. pp. 453. $2.00.

The American Boy's Book of Sports and Games: A Repository of In- and Out-Door Amusements for
Boys and Youth. Illustrated with over Six Hundred Engravings, designed by White, Herrick, Wier,
and Harvey, and engraved by N. Orr. New York. Dick & Fitzgerald. 12mo. pp. 600. $3.50.

Southern Slavery in its Present Aspects: Containing a Reply to a Late Work of the Bishop of
Vermont on Slavery. By Daniel R. Goodwin. Philadelphia. J. B. Lippincott & Co. 16mo. pp. 343.
$1.50.

Love and Duty. By Mrs. Hubback. Philadelphia. T. B. Peterson & Brothers. 12mo, pp. 446. $2.00.

Memoirs of Lieutenant-General Scott, LL.D. Written by Himself. In Two Volumes. New York. Sheldon
& Co. 12mo. pp. xxii., 330; iv., 323. $4.00.

To Be or Not To Be, That is the Question. Boston. Geo. C. Rand and Avery, Printers. 16mo. pp.
47. 38 cents.

The Hawaiian Islands: Their Progress and Condition under Missionary Labors. By Rufus Anderson,
D.D. Boston. Gould & Lincoln. 12mo. pp. xxii., 450.

Uncle Nat: or, The Good Time which George and Frank had, Trapping, Fishing, Camping-Out, etc.
By Alfred Oldfellow. New York. D. Appleton & Co. 16mo. pp. 224. $1.25.

Lyra Anglicana; or, A Hymnal of Sacred Poetry, selected from the Best English Writers, and
arranged after the Order of the Apostles' Creed. By Rev. George T. Rider, M.A. New York. D.
Appleton & Co. 16mo. pp. xiv., 288. $2.00.

Gunnery Catechism, as applied to the Service of Naval Ordnance. Adapted to the Latest Official
Regulations, and approved by the Bureau of Ordnance, Navy Department. By J.D. Brandt, formerly
of U.S. Navy. New York. D. Van Nostrand. 18mo. pp. 197. $1.50.

Ruth: A Song in the Desert. Boston. Gould & Lincoln. 16mo. pp. 64. 60 cents.

The Burden of the South, in Verse: or, Poems on Slavery, Grave, Humorous, Didactic, and Satirical.
By Sennoia Rubek. New York. P. Everardus Warner. 8vo. paper. pp. 96.

Petersons' New Cook-Book; or, Useful and Practical Receipts for the Housewife and the Uninitiated.
Philadelphia. T. B. Peterson & Brothers, 12mo. pp. 533. $2.00. With an Introduction by Theodore
W. Dwight. New York. Charles Scribner. 8vo. pp. lxix., 400. $3.00.