ACCOUNT OF A TOUR IN NORMANDY Volume II by Dawson Turner

LETTERS FROM NORMANDY,

ADDRESSED TO THE REV. JAMES LAYTON, B.A. OF CATFIELD, NORFOLK.

UNDERTAKEN CHIEFLY FOR THE PURPOSE OF INVESTIGATING THE ARCHITECTURAL ANTIQUITIES OF THE DUCHY,
WITH OBSERVATIONS ON ITS HISTORY, ON THE COUNTRY, AND ON ITS INHABITANTS.

ILLUSTRATED WITH NUMEROUS ENGRAVINGS.

CONTENTS.

LETTER XIV.

Ducler--St. Georges de Bocherville--M. Langlois

LETTER XV.

Abbey of Jumieges--Its History--Architectural Details--Tombs of Agnes Sorel and of the Enervez

LETTER XVI.

Gournay--Castle of Neufmarché--Castle and Church of Gisors

LETTER XVII.

Andelys--Fountain of Saint Clotilda--La Grande Maison--Château Gaillard--Ecouis

LETTER XVIII.

Evreux--Cathedral--Abbey of St. Taurinus--Ancient History

LETTER XIX.

Vicinity of Evreux--Château de Navarre--Cocherel--Pont-Audemer-- Montfort-sur-Risle--Harfleur--Bourg-Achard--French
Wedding

LETTER XX.

Moulineaux--Castle of Robert the Devil--Bourg-Theroude--Abbey of Bec--Brionne

LETTER XXI.

Bernay--Broglie--Orbec--Lisieux--Cathedral--Ecclesiastical History

LETTER XXII.

Site and Ruins of the Capital of the Lexovii--History of Lisieux--Monasteries of the Diocese--Ordericus
Vitalis--M. Dubois--Letter from the Princess Borghese

LETTER XXIII.

French Police--Ride from Lisieux to Caen--Cider--General Appearance and Trade of Caen--English
resident there

LETTER XXIV.

Historians of Caen--Towers and Fortifications--Château de la Gendarmerie--Castle--Churches
of St. Stephen, St. Nicholas, St. Peter, St. John, and St. Michel de Vaucelles

LETTER XXV.

Royal Abbeys of the Holy Trinity and St. Stephen--Funeral of the Conqueror, Exhumation of his
Remains, and Destruction of his Monument

LETTER XXVI.

Palace of the Conqueror--Heraldic Tiles--Portraits of William and Matilda--Museum--Public Library--University--Academy--Eminent
Men--History of Caen

LETTER XXVII.

Vieux--La Maladerie--Chesnut Timber--Caen Stone--History of Bayeux--Tapestry

LETTER XXVIII.

Cathedral of Bayeux--Canon of Cambremer--Cope of St. Regnobert--Odo

LETTER XXIX.

Church and Castle of Creully--Falaise--Castle--Churches--Fair of Guibray

LETTER XXX.

Rock and Chapel of St. Adrien--Pont-de-l'Arche--Priory of the two Lovers--Abbey of Bonport--Louviers--Gaillon--Vernon

APPENDIX I.

APPENDIX II.

INDEX.

LIST OF PLATES.

Plate 26 Sculpture upon a capital in the Chapter-House at St. Georges

Plate 27 M. Langlois

Plate 28 Musicians, from the Chapter-House at St. Georges

Plate 29 Distant View of the Abbey of St. Jumieges

Plate 30 Ancient trefoil-headed Arches in ditto

Plate 31 Distant of the Castle of Gisors

Plate 32 Banded Pillar in the Church of ditto

Plate 33 Distant View of Château Gaillard

Plate 34 Gothic Puteal, at Evreux

Plate 35 Leaden Font at Bourg-Achard

Plate 36 Ancient Tomb in the Cathedral at Lisieux

Plate 37 Head-Dress of Females, as Caen

Plate 38 Tower in the Château de Calix, at ditto

Plate 39 Tower and Spire of St. Peter's Church, at ditto

Plate 40 Sculpture upon a Capital in ditto

Plate 41 Tower of St. John's Church, at Caen

Plate 42 Monastery of St. Stephen, at ditto

Plate 43 Fireplace in the Conqueror's Palace, at Ditto

Plate 44 Profile of M. Lamouroux

Plate 45 Figure from the Bayeux Tapestry

Plate 46 Sculpture at Bayeux

Plate 47 Ornaments in the Spandrils of the Arches in Bayeux Cathedral

Plate 48 Castle of Falaise

Plate 49 Elevation of the West Front of La Délivrande

Plate 50 Font at Magneville

LETTERS FROM NORMANDY.

(Ducler, July, 1818.)

You will look in vain for Ducler in the livre des postes; yet this little town, which is out
of the common road of the traveller, becomes an interesting station to the antiquary, it being
situated nearly mid-way between two of the most important remains of ancient ecclesiastical
architecture in Normandy--the abbeys of St. Georges de Bocherville and of Jumieges.--The accommodation
afforded by the inns at Bocherville and Jumieges, is but a poor substitute for the hospitality
of the suppressed abbeys; and, as even the antiquary must eat and perhaps sleep, he who visits
either St. George or the holy Virgin, will do well to take his fricandeau and his bed, at the
place whence I am writing.

At a period when the right bank of the Seine from Harfleur to Rouen displayed an almost uninterrupted
line or monastic buildings, Ducler also boasted of a convent[1], which must have been of some
importance, as early as the middle of the seventh century.--King Childeric IInd, granted the
forest of Jumieges to the convent of the same name and that of St. Vandrille; and St. Ouen
was directed by the monarch to divide the endowment between the two foundations. His award
did not give satisfaction to St. Philibert, the abbot of Jumieges, who maintained that his
house had not received a fair allotment. The proposition was stoutly resisted by St. Lambert,
abbot of St. Vandrille; and the dispute was at length settled by the saints withdrawing their
claims, and ceding the surplus land to the abbey of Ducler. St. Denys was the patron of this
abbey; and to him also the present parochial church is dedicated: it is of Norman architecture;
the tower is surrounded by a row of fantastic corbels; and a considerable quantity of painted
glass yet remains in the windows. The village itself (for it is nothing more than a village,
though honored by French geographers with the name of a bourg), consists of a single row of
houses, placed immediately under the steep chalk cliff which borders the Seine. The face of
the cliff is also indented by excavations, in which the poorer inhabitants dwell, almost like
the Troglodytes of old. The situation of Ducler, and that of the two neighboring abbeys, is
delightful in summer and in fine weather. In winter it must be cold and cheerless; for, besides
being close to a river of so great breadth, it looks upon a flat marshy shore, whence exhalations
copiously arise. The view from our chamber window this morning presented volumes of mist rolling
on with the stream. The tide was setting in fast downwards; and the water glided along in silent
rapidity, involved in clouds.

The village of Bocherville, or, as it is more commonly called, of St. Georges, the place borrowing
its name from the patron saint of the abbey, lies, at the distance of about two leagues from
Rouen. The road is exceedingly pleasing. Every turning presents a fresh view of the river;
while, on looking back, the city itself is added to the landscape; and, as we approach, the
abbey-church is seen towering upon the eminence which it commands.

The church of St. Georges de Bocherville, called in old charters de Baucherville, and in Latin
de Balcheri or Baucheri villa, was built by Ralph de Tancarville, the preceptor of the Conqueror
in his youth, and his chamberlain in his maturer age. The descendants of the founder were long
the patrons and advocates of the monastery. The Tancarvilles, names illustrious in Norman,
no less than in English, story, continued during many centuries to regard it as under their
particular protection: they enriched it with their donations whilst alive, and they selected
it as the spot to contain their remains when they should be no more.

The following portion of the charter, which puts us in possession of the indisputable æra of
the erection of the church, is preserved by Mabillon[2]. It is the Conqueror who speaks.--"Radulfus,
meus magister, aulæque et cameræ princeps, instinctu divino tactus, ecclesiam supradicti martyris
Georgii, quæ erat parva, re-edificare a fundamentis inchoavit, et ex proprio in modum crucis
consummavit."

The Monarch and his Queen condescended to gratify a faithful and favorite servant, by endowing
his establishment. The corpse of the sovereign himself was also brought hither from St. Gervais,
by the monks and clergy, in solemn procession, before it was carried to Caen[3] for interment.

Ralph de Tancarville, however, was not fortunate in the selection of the inmates whom he planted
in his monastery. His son, in the reign of Henry Ist, dismissed the canons for whom it was
first founded, and replaced them by a colony of monks from St. Evroul. Ordericus Vitalis, himself
of the fraternity of St. Evroul, commemorates and of course praises the fact. Such changes
are of frequent occurrence in ecclesiastical history; and the apprehension of being rejected
from an opulent and well-endowed establishment, may occasionally have contributed, by the warning
example, to correct the irregularities of other communities. A century later, the abbot of
St. Georges was compelled to appeal to the pope, in consequence of an attempt on the part of
his brethren at St. Evroul, to degrade his convent into a mere cell, dependent upon theirs.--The
chronicle of the abbey is barren of events of general interest; nor do its thirty-one abbots
appear to have been men of whom there was much more to be said, than that they arrived at their
dignity on such a year, and quitted it on such another. Of the monks, we are told that, in
the fifteenth century, though their number was only eight, the dignitaries included, the daily
task allotted them was greater than would in any of the most rigid establishments, in latter
days, have been imposed upon forty brethren in a week!

Inconsiderable as is the abbey, in an historical point of view, the church of St. Georges de
Bocherville is of singular importance, inasmuch as it is one of the land-marks of Norman architecture.
William, in his charter, simply styles himself Dux Normannorum; it therefore was granted a
few years before the conquest. The building has suffered little, either from the hands of the
destroyers, or of those who do still more mischief, the repairers; and it is certainly at once
the most genuine and the most magnificent specimen of the circular style, now existing in Upper
Normandy.--The west front is wholly of the time of the founder, with the exception of the upper
portion of the towers that flank it on either side. In these are windows of nearly the earliest
pointed style; and they are probably of the same date as the chapter-house, which was built
in the latter part of the twelfth century. The effect of the front is imposing: its general
simplicity contrasts well with the rich ornaments of the arched door-way, which is divided
into five systems of mouldings, all highly wrought, and presenting almost every pattern commonly
found in Norman buildings. A label encircles the whole, the inner edge of which is indented
into obtuse pyramids, erroneously called lozenges. The capitals of the columns supporting the
arch are curiously sculptured: upon the second to the left, on entering, are Adam and Eve,
in the act of eating the forbidden fruit; upon the opposite one, is represented the Flight
into Egypt. Normandy does not contain, I believe, a richer arch; but very many indeed are to
be seen in England, even in our village churches, superior in decoration, though not, perhaps,
in size; for this at St. Georges is on a very large scale: on each side of it is a smaller
blank arch, with a single moulding and a single pillar. Two tiers of circular-headed windows
of equal size fill up the front.--The rest of the exterior may be said to be precisely as it
was left by the original builders, excepting only the insertion of a pointed window near the
central tower.

The inside is at least equally free from modern alterations or improvements. No other change
whatever is to be traced in it than such as were required to repair the injuries done it during
the religious wars; and these were wholly confined to a portion of the roof, and of the upper
part of the wall on the south side of the nave. The groined roof, though posterior to the original
date of the building, is perhaps of the thirteenth century. The nave itself terminates towards
the east in a semi-circular apsis, according to the custom of the times; and there, as well
as at the opposite extremity of the building, it has a double tier of windows, and has columns
more massy than those in the body of the church. The aisles end in straight lines; but, within,
a recess is made in the thickness of the wall, for the purpose of admitting an altar. Both
the transepts are divided within the church, at a short distance from their extremities, into
two stories, by a vaulted roof of the same height as the triforium.--M. Le Prevost, who has
very kindly communicated to me the principal part of these details, has observed the same to
be the case in some other contemporary buildings in Normandy. On the eastern side of each transept
is a small chapel, ending, like the choir, in a semi-circular apsis, which rises no higher
than the top of the basement story. A cable moulding runs round the walls of the whole church
within.--You and I, in our own country, have often joined in admiring the massy grandeur of
Norman architecture, exemplified in the nave of Norwich cathedral: at St. Georges I was still
more impressed by the noble effect of semi-circular arcades, seen as they are here on a still
larger scale, and in their primitive state, uninterrupted and undebased by subsequent additions.

On closer examination, the barbarous style of the sculpture forces itself upon the eye. Towards
the western end of the building the capitals are comparatively plain: they become more elaborate
on approaching the choir. Some of them are imitations or modifications (and it may even be
said beautiful ones) of the Grecian model; but in general they are strangely grotesque. Many
represent quadrupeds, or dragons, or birds, and commonly with two bodies, and a single head
attached to any part rather than the neck. On others is seen "the human form divine," here
praying, there fighting; here devouring, there in the act of being devoured; not uncommonly
too the men, if men they must be called, are disfigured by enormous heads with great flapping
ears, or loll out an endless length of tongue.--One is almost led to conceive that Schedel,
the compiler of the Nuremberg Chronicle, had a set of Norman capitals before his eyes, when
he published his inimitable series of monsters. His "homines cynocephali," and others with
"aures tam magnas ut totum corpus contegant," and those again whose under lips serve them as
coverlids, may all find their prototypes, or nearly so, in the carvings of St. Georges.

The most curious sculptures, however, in the church, are two square bas-reliefs, opposite to
one another, upon the spandrils of the arches, in the walls that divide the extremities of
the transepts into different stories[4]. They are cut out of the solid stone, in the same manner
as the subjects on the block of a wood-engraving: one of these tablets represents a prelate
holding a crosier in his left hand, while the two fore-fingers of the right are elevated in
the act of giving the blessing; the other contains two knights on horseback, jousting at a
tournament. They are armed with lance and buckler, and each of them has his head covered with
a pointed helmet, which terminates below in a nasal, like the figures upon the Bayeux tapestry.--This
coincidence is interesting, as deciding a point of some moment towards establishing the antiquity
of that celebrated relic, by setting it beyond a doubt that such helmets were used anterior
to the conquest; for it is certain that these basso-relievos are coeval with the building which
contains them.

This church affords admirable subjects for the pencil. It should be drawn in every part: all
is entire; all original; the corbel-stones that support the cornice on the exterior are perfect,
as well along the choir and nave, as upon the square central steeple: each of the sides of
this latter is ornamented with a double tier of circular arches. The buttresses to the church
are, like those of the chapel of St. Julien, shallow and unbroken; and they are ranged, as
there, between the windows. At the east end alone they take the shape of small semi-cylindrical
columns of disproportionate length.

The monastic buildings, which were probably erected about the year 1700, now serve as a manufactory.
Between them and the church is situated the chapter-house, which was built towards the end
of the twelfth century, at a period when the pointed architecture had already begun to take
place of the circular style. Its date is supplied in the Gallia Christiana, where we read,
that Victor, the second abbot, "obiit longævus dierum, idibus Martii, seu XVIII calendas Aprilis,
ante annum 1211; sepultusque est sub tabulâ marmoreâ in capitulo quod erexerat."

We found it in a most ruinous and dilapidated state, yet extremely curious; indeed not less
so than the church. Its front to the west exhibits a row of three semi-circular arches, with
an ornament on the archivolt altogether different from what I recollect to have seen elsewhere[5].
The inside corresponds in profuse decoration with this entrance; but the arches in it are all
pointed. An entablature of beautiful workmanship is carried round the whole building, which
is now used as a mill: it was crowded with dirty children belonging to the manufactory; and
the confusion which prevailed, was far from being favorable to the quiet lucubrations of an
antiquary. In no part of the church is the sculpture equally curious; and it is very interesting
to observe the progress which this branch of the art had made in so short a time. Two or three
of the capitals to the arches in front, seem to include one continued action, taken apparently
from the history of Joshua. Another capital, of which I send you a sketch from the pencil of
M. Le Prevost, is a great curiosity. The group which it contains, is nearly a duplicate of
the supposed statue of William the Conqueror at Caen. In all probability it represents some
legendary story, though the subject is not satisfactorily ascertained. Against the pillars
that support these arches, were affixed whole-length figures, or cariatides, in alto-relievo.
Three of them still remain, though much mutilated; two women and a man. They hold in their
hands labels, with inscriptions that fall down to their feet in front. One of the females has
her hair disposed in long braided tresses, which reach on either side to her girdle. In this
respect, as well as in the style of the sculpture and costume, there is a resemblance between
these statues and those on the portals at St. Denys and at Chartres, as well as those formerly
on that of St. Germain des Prés, at Paris, all which are figured by Montfaucon in his Monumens
de la Monarchie Française, and are supposed by him to be of the times of the Merovingian or
Carlovingian dynasty; but subsequent writers have referred them to the eleventh or twelfth century.

It was in this chapter-house that M. Langlois[6] found, among a heap of stones, a most interesting
capital, that had formerly been attached to a double column. By his kindness, I inclose you
two drawings of it. One of them shews it in its entire form as a capital; the other exhibits
the bas-relief carved upon it[7].

The various injuries sustained by the building, render it impossible to ascertain the spot
which this capital originally occupied; but M. Le Prevost supposes that it belonged to some
gate of the cloister, which is now destroyed. A more curious series of musical instruments
is, perhaps, no where to be found; and it is a subject upon which authors in general are peculiarly
unsatisfactory. I am told that, in an old French romance, the names of upwards of twenty are
enumerated, whose forms and nature are quite unknown at the present day; while, on the other
hand, we are all of us aware that painting and sculpture supply figures of many, for which
it would be extremely difficult or impossible to find names[8].

The chapter-house, previously to the revolution, contained a tomb-stone[9], uninscribed and
exhibiting only a sculptured sword, under which it was supposed that either Ralph de Tancarville
himself, the founder of the abbey, or his grandson, William, lay interred. It is of the latter
that the records of the monastery tell, how, on the fifth day after he girded himself with
the military belt, he came to the church, and deposited his sword upon the altar, and subsequently
redeemed it by various donations, and by confirming to the monks their right to the several
benefices in his domain, which had been ceded to them by his grandfather.--Here then, I quit
you: in a few days I shall have paid my devotions at the shrine of Jumieges:--meanwhile, in
the language of the writers of the elder day, I close this sheet with.

  EXPLICIT FELICITER Stus. GEORGIUS DE BOCHERVILLA;
  DEO GRATIAS.

       *       *       *       *       *

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 1: Histoire de la Haute Normandie, II. p. 266. VOL. II.]

[Footnote 2: Ann. Benedict. III. p. 674, 675.--This charter was not among the archives of the
monastery; but I am informed by M. Le Prevost, that several are still in existence, most of
them granted by the family of the founder, but some by Kings of England. One of the latter
is by Richard Coeur de Lion, and his seal of red wax still remains appended to it, in fine
preservation. The seal, on one side, represents the king seated upon his throne, with a pointed
beard, having his crown on his head, and a sword in one hand, and sceptre in the other: on
the other side, he is on horseback, with his head covered with a cylindrical helmet, surmounted
with a very remarkable crest, in the form of a fan: on his shield are plainly distinguishable
the three lions of England.--From among the charters granted by the Tancarville family, M.
Le Prevost has sent me copies of two which have never yet been printed; but which appear to
deserve insertion here. One is from Lucy, daughter of William de Tancarville, and grand-daughter
of Ralph, the chamberlain.--"Notum sit Ricardo de Vernon and Willelmo Camerario de Tancarvilla,
et veteribus et juvenibus, quòd Lucia, filia Willelmi, Camerarii de Tancarvilla, pro animâ
suâ et pro animabus antecessorum suorum, ad ecclesiam Sti. Georgii de Bauchervilla dedit molendinum
de Waldinivilla, quod est subter aliud molendinum et molendinum de Waldinval, liberè et quietè,
et insupèr ecclesiam de Seonvilla, salvâ elemosinâ Roberti sacerdotis in vitâ suâ, si dignus
est habendi eam. Et post mortem Willelmi capellani sui de Sancto Flocello, ad ecclesiam suprà
dictam dedit decimam de vavassoribus de Seolvilla, quam dedit in elemosinâ habendam Willelmo
capellano totâ vitâ bene et in pace et securè, et decimas de custodiis totius terre sue que
est in Constantino.--Ego Lucia do hanc elemosinam pro animâ meâ et pro antecessoribus ad ecclesiam
Sanctii Georgii; et qui auferet ab eâ et auferetur ab eo regnum Dei. Amen.--Testibus, Ricardo
de Haia et Matille uxore suâ et Nigello de Chetilivilla et hominibus de Sancto Flocello."--To
this is added, in a smaller hand-writing, probably the lady's own autograph, the following
sentence:--"Et precor vos quòd ecclesia Sancti Georgii non decrescatur in tempore vestro pro
Dei amore et meo de elemosinis patris mei neque de meis."--There is still farther subjoined,
in a different hand-writing, and in a much paler ink:--"Hæc omnia Ricardus de Vernon libenter
concessit."--The other charter was granted by William the Younger, and details a curious custom
occasionally observed in the middle ages, in making donations:--

"Universis sancte ecclesie fidelibus. Willelmus junior camerarius in domino salutem. Notum
sit presentibus et futuris, quod ego Willelmus junior camerarius quinto die post susceptum
militie cingulum veni apud Sanctum Georgium, ibique cum honorificâ processione suscepérunt
me Abbas Ludovicus et monachi cum magno gaudio letantes; et ibi obtuli gladium meum super altare
Sti. Georgii, et tunc consilio et admonitione sociorum meorum nobilium virorum qui mecum venerant,
scilicet Roberti des Is, dapiferi mei, et Rogerii de Calli, et Johannis de Lunda, et aliorum
plurium, redemi gladium meum per dona et confirmationem plurium ecclesiarum, quas ipso die
concessi eisdem meo dono, et, sicut avus meus, fundator illius monasterii dederat, confirmavi;
scilicet ecclesiam de Abetot et ecclesiam de Espretot cum decimâ, et ecclesiam Sancti Romani
cum duabus partibus decime, et similitèr ecclesiam de Tibermaisnil: confirmavi etiam dona militum
meorum et amicorum quæ dederunt ipso die abbatie in perpetuam elemosynam, Rogerius de Calli
dedit XX Sot. annuatìm; Robertus de Mortùomari X Sot.; Robertus des Is X solidos; Johannes
de Lunda, cognatus meus X Sot.; Andreas de Bosemuneel X solidos, vel decimam de una carrucatura
terre ... Humfridus de Willerio X solid.; Willelmus de Bodevilla X acras terre; Garinus de
Mois V solid.; Adam de Mirevilla X solid.; Robert. de Fuschennis X solid.; Lesra de Drumara
I acram terre."]

[Footnote 3: The following are the words of Ordericus Vitalis, upon the subject:

"Religiosi tandem viri, Clerici et Monachi, collectis viribus et intimis sensibus, processionem
ordinaverunt: honestè induti, crucibus et thuribus, ad Sanctum Georgium processerunt, et animam
Regis, secundum morem sanctæ Christianitatis Deo commendaverunt."--Duchesne, Scriptores Normanni,
p. 661.]

[Footnote 4: See Cotman's Architectural Antiquities of Normandy, t. 10. f. A. and B.]

[Footnote 5: See Cotman's Architectural Antiquities of Normandy, t. 11. last figure.]

[Footnote 6: My readers will join with me, I trust, in thanks to M. Langlois, for his drawings;
and will not be sorry to see, accompanying his sketch of the bas-relief, a spirited one of
himself. Normandy does not contain a more ardent admirer of her antiquities, or one to whom
she is more indebted for investigating, drawing, and publishing them. But, to the disgrace
of Rouen, his labors are not rewarded. All the obstacles, however opposed by the "durum, pauperies,
opprobium," have not been able to check his independent mind: he holds on his course in the
illustration of the true Norman remains; and to any antiquary who visits this country, I can
promise a great pleasure in the examination of his port-folio.]

[Footnote 7: Its size at top is fourteen inches and a half, by six inches and two-thirds.]

[Footnote 8: This difficulty, in the present instance, has yielded to the extensive researches
of Mr. Douce, who has afforded assistance to me, which, perhaps, no other antiquary could have
bestowed. He has unravelled all the mysteries of minstrelsy with his usual ability; and I give
the information in his own words, only observing that the numbers begin from the left.--"No.
1 was called the violl, corresponding with our Viol de Gamba. As this was a larger violin,
though the sculptor has not duly expressed its comparative bulk, I conceive it was either used
as a tenor or base, being perfectly satisfied, in spite of certain doubts on the subject, that
counterpoint was known in the middle ages.--No. 2 is the largest instrument of the kind that
I have ever seen, and it seems correctly given, from one part of it resting on the figure,
No. 3, to support it. Twiss mentions one that he saw sculptured on the cathedral, at Toro,
five feet long. The proper name of it is the rote, so called from the internal wheel or cylinder,
turned by a winch, which caused the bourdon, whilst the performer stopped the notes on the
strings with his fingers. This instrument has been very ignorantly termed a vielle, and yet
continues to be so called in France. It is the modern Savoyard hurdy-gurdy, as we still more
improperly term it; for the hurdy-gurdy is quite a different instrument. In later times, the
rote appears to have lost its rank in concert, and was called the beggar's lyre.--No. 4 is
evidently the syrinx, or Pan's pipe, which has been revived with so much success in the streets
of London.--Twiss shewed me one forty years ago, that he got in the south of France, where
they were then very common.--No. 5 is an instrument for which I can find no name, nor can I
immediately call to memory any other representation of it. It has some resemblance to the old
Welsh fiddle or crowth; but, as a bow is wanting, it must have been played with the fingers;
and I think the performer's left hand in the sculpture does seem to be stopping the strings
on the upper part, or neck, a portion of which has been probably broken off.--I suspect it
to be the old mandore, whence the more modern mandolin. The rotundity of the sounding-board
may warrant this conjecture.--No. 6 was called the psalterion, and is of very great antiquity,
(I mean as to the middle ages).--Its form was very diversified, and frequently triangular.
It was played with a plectrum, which the performer holds in his right hand.--No. 7 is the dulcimer,
which is very common in sculpture. This instrument appears, as in the present case, to have
been sometimes played with the fingers only, and sometimes with a plectrum.--No. 8 is the real
vielle, or violin, of very common occurrence, and very ancient.--No. 9 is a female tumbler,
or tomllesterre, as Chaucer calls them. This profession, so far as we can depend on ancient
representation, appears to have exclusively belonged to women.--No. 10. A harp played with
a plectrum, and, perhaps, also with the left hand occasionally.--No. 11.

(Ducler, July, 1818)

The country between Ducler and Jumieges is of much the same character with that through which
we had already travelled from Rouen; the road sometimes coasting the Seine, and sometimes passing
through a well-wooded country, pleasantly intermingled with corn-fields. In its general appearance,
this district bears a near resemblance to an English landscape; more so, indeed, than in any
other part of Normandy, where the features of the scenery are upon a larger scale.

The lofty towers of the abbey of Jumieges are conspicuous from afar: the stone of which they
are built is peculiarly white; and at a distance scarcely any signs of decay or dilapidation
are visible. On a nearer approach, however, the Vandalism of the modern French appears in full
activity. For the pitiful value of the materials, this noble edifice is doomed to destruction.
The arched roof is beaten in; and the choir is nearly levelled with the ground. Two cart-loads
of wrought stones were carried away, while we were there; and the workmen were busily employed
in its demolition. The greater part, too, of the mischief, appears recent: the fractures of
the walls are fresh and sharp; and the fresco-paintings are unchanged.--Had the proud, abbatial
structure but been allowed to have existed as the parochial church of the village, the edifice
might have stood for ages; but the French are miserably deficient in proper feeling; and neither
the historical recollections connected with Jumieges, nor its importance as a monument of architectural
antiquity, could redeem it from their tasteless selfishness. In a few years, its very ruins
will have perished; and not a wreck will remain of this ancient sanctuary of religion and of
learning.

It was in the year 654 or 655, that St. Philibert, second abbot of Rebais, in the diocese of
Meaux, founded this monastery. He selected the site upon which the present building stands,
a delightful situation, in a peninsula on the right bank of the Seine. This peninsula, and
the territory extending from Ducler to Caudebec, had been granted to him for this purpose by
Clovis IInd, or, more properly speaking, by Bathilda, his queen; for the whole administration
of affairs was in reality under her guidance, though the reins of state were nominally held
by her feeble husband. The territory[10] had previously borne the name of Jumieges, or, in
Latin, Gemeticum, a term whose origin has puzzled etymologists. Those who hold it disgraceful
to be ever at a loss on points of this nature, and who prefer displaying a learned to an unlearned
ignorance, derive Gemeticum, either from gemitus, because, "pro suis offensis illìc gemunt,
qui in flammis ultricibus non erunt gemituri;" or from gemma, conformably to the following
distich,--

   "Gemmeticum siquidem a gemmâ dixere priores;
    Quòd reliquis gemmæ, præcelleret instar Eoæ."

The ground upon which the abbey was erected was previously occupied by an ancient encampment.
The author of the Life of St. Philibert, who mentions this circumstance, has also preserved
a description of the original church. These authentic accounts of edifices of remote date,
which frequently occur in hagiology, are of great value in the history of the arts[11].--The
bounty of the queen was well employed by the saint; and the cruciform church, with chapels,
and altars, and shrines, and oratories, on either side, and with its high altar hallowed by
relics, and decked out with gold and silver and precious stones, shews how faithfully the catholics,
in their religious edifices of the present day, have adhered to the models of the early, if
not the primitive, ages of the church.

Writers of the same period record two facts in relation to Jumieges, which are of some interest
as points of natural history.--Vines were then commonly cultivated in this place and neighborhood;--and
fishes of so great a size, that we cannot but suppose they must have been whales, frequently
came up the Seine, and were caught under the walls of the monastery.--The growth of the vine
is abundantly proved: it is not only related by various monkish historians, one of whom, an
anonymous writer, quoted by Mabillon, in the Acta Sanctorum ordinis Sancti Benedicti, says,
speaking of Jumieges, "hinc vinearum abundant botryones, qui in turgentibus gemmis lucentes
rutilant in Falernis;" but even a charter of so late a date as the year 1472, expressly terms
a large tract of land belonging to the convent, the vineyard[12].--The existence of the English
monastic vineyards has been much controverted, but not conclusively. Whether these instances
of the northern growth of the vine, as a wine-making plant, do or do not bear upon the question
of the supposed refrigeration of our climate by the increase of the Polar ice, must be left
to the determination of others.--The whale-fishery of Jumieges rests upon the single authority
of the Gesta Sancti Philiberti: the author admits, indeed, that it is a strange thing, "et
a sæculo inauditum;" but still he speaks of it as a fact that has fallen under his own knowledge,
that the monks, by means of hooks, nets, and boats, catch sea-fish[13], fifty feet in length,
which at once supply their table with food, and their lamps with oil.

The number of holy men who originally accompanied St. Philibert to his new abbey, was only
seventy; but they increased with surprising rapidity; insomuch, that his successor, St. Aicadras,
who received the pastoral staff, after a lapse of little more than thirty years from the foundation
of Jumieges, found himself at the head of nine hundred monks, besides fifteen hundred attendants
and dependants of various denominations.

During all these early ages, the monastery of Jumieges continued to be accounted one of the
most celebrated religious houses in France. Its abbots are repeatedly mentioned in history,
as enjoying the confidence of sovereigns, and as charged with important missions. In their
number, was Hugh, grandson of Pépin le Bref, or, according to other writers, of Charlemagne.
Here also, Tassilo, Duke of Bavaria, and his son, Theodo, were compelled to immure themselves,
after the emperor had deposed them; whilst Anstruda, daughter of Tassilo, was doomed to share
his imperial bed.

An æra of misfortune began with the arrival of the Normans. It was in May, in the year 841,
that these dreadful invaders first penetrated as far as Rouen, marking their track by devastation.
On their retreat, which almost immediately succeeded, they set fire to Jumieges, as well as
to the capital. In their second invasion, under Ironside and Hastings, the "fury of the Normans"
was poured out upon Neustria; and, during their inroad, they levelled Jumieges with the ground[14].
But the monks saved themselves: they dispersed: one fled as far as St. Gall; others found shelter
in the royal abbey of St. Denis; the greater part re-assembled in a domain of their own, called
Haspres, in Flanders, whither they carried with them the bodies of St. Aicadrus and St. Hugh:
there too they resided till the conversion of their enemies to Christianity.

The victorious fleet of Rollo first sailed in triumph up the Seine, in the year 876. According
to three monkish historians, Dudo of St. Quintin, William of Jumieges, and Matthew of Westminster,
the chieftain venerated the sanctity of Jumieges, and deposited in the chapel of St. Vast,
the corpse of the holy virgin, Hameltruda, whom he had brought from Britain. They also tell
us that, on the sixth day after his baptism, he made a donation of some lands to this monastery.--The
details, however, of the circumstances connected with the first, diminish its credibility;
and Jumieges, then desolate, could scarcely contain a community capable of accepting the donation.
But under the reign of the son and successor of Rollo, the abbey of Jumieges once more rose
from its ashes. Baldwin and Gundwin, two of the monks who had fled to Haspres, returned to
explore the ruins of the abbey: they determined to seclude themselves amidst its fire-scathed
walls, and to devote their lives to piety and toil.--In pursuing the deer, the Duke chanced
to wander to Jumieges, and he there beheld the monks employed in clearing the ground. He listened
with patience to their narration; but when they invited him to partake of their humble fare,
barley-bread and water, he turned from them with disdain. It chanced, however, that immediately
afterwards, he encountered in the forest a boar of enormous size. The beast unhorsed him, and
he was in danger of death. The peril he regarded as a judgment from heaven; and, as an expiation
for his folly, he rebuilt the monastery. So thoroughly, however, had the Normans demonachised
Neustria, that William Longa Spatha was compelled to people the abbey with a colony from Poitou;
and thence came twelve monks, headed by Abbot Martin, whom the duke installed in his office
in the year 930. William himself also desired to take refuge from the fatigues of government
in the retirement of the monastery; and though dissuaded by Abbot Martin, who reminded him
that Richard, his infant, son still needed his care, he did not renounce his intention:--but
his life and his reign were soon ended by treachery.

This second æra of the prosperity of Jumieges was extremely short; for the prefect, whom Louis
d'Outremer, King of France, placed in command at Rouen, when he seized upon the young Duke
Richard, pulled down the walls of this and of all the other monasteries on the banks of the
Seine, to assist towards the reparation and embellishment of the seat of his government. But
from that time forward the tide of monastic affairs flowed in one even course of prosperity;
though the present abbatial church was not begun till the time of Abbot Robert, the second
of that name, who was elected in 1037. By him the first stone of the foundation was laid, three
years after his advancement to the dignity; but he held his office only till 1043, when Edward
the Confessor invited him to England, and immediately afterwards promoted him to the Bishopric
of London.--Godfrey, his successor at Jumieges, was a man conversant with architecture, and
earnest in the promotion of learning. In purchasing books and in causing them to be transcribed,
he spared neither pains nor expence. The records of the monastery contain a curious precept,
in which he directs that prayers should be offered up annually upon a certain day, "pro illis
qui dederunt et fecerunt libros."--The inmates of Jumieges continued, however, to increase
in number; and the revenues of the abbey would not have been adequate to defray the expences
of the new building, had not Abbot Robert, who, in 1050, had been translated to the see of
Canterbury, supplied the deficiency by his munificence, and, as long as he continued to be
an English prelate, remitted the surplus of his revenues to the Norman abbey. He held his archiepiscopal
dignity only one year, at the expiration of which he was banished from England: he then retired
to Jumieges, where he died the following spring, and was buried in the choir of the church
which he had begun to raise. At his death, the church had neither nave nor windows; and the
whole edifice was not completed till November, in the year 1066. In the following July the
dedication took place. Maurilius, Archbishop of Rouen, officiated, in great pomp, assisted
by all the prelates of the duchy; and William, then just returned from the conquest of England,
honored the ceremony with his presence.

I have dwelt upon the early history of this monastery, because Normandy scarcely furnishes
another of greater interest. In the Neustria Pia, Jumieges fills nearly seventy closely-printed
folio pages of that curious and entertaining, though credulous, work.--What remains to be told
of its annals is little more than a series of dates touching the erection of different parts
of the building: these, however, are worth preserving, so long as any portion of the noble
church is permitted to have existence, and so long as drawings and engravings continue to perpetuate
the remembrance of its details.

The choir and extremities of the transept, all of pointed architecture, are supposed to have
been rebuilt in 1278.--The Lady-Chapel was an addition of the year 1326.--The abbey suffered
materially during the wars between England and France, in the reigns of our Henry IVth and
Henry Vth: its situation exposed it to be repeatedly pillaged by the contending parties; and,
were it not that the massy Norman architecture sufficiently indicates the true date, and that
we know our neighbors' habit of applying large words to small matters, we might even infer
that it was then destroyed as effectually as it had been by Ironside: the expression, "lamentabilitèr
desolata, diffracta et annihilata," could scarcely convey any meaning short of utter ruin,
except to the ears of one who had been told that a religious edifice was actually abimé during
the revolution, though he saw it at the same moment standing before him, and apparently uninjured.--The
arched roof of the choir received a complete repair in 1535: that of the nave, which was also
in a very bad state, underwent the same process in 1688; at the same time, the slender columns
that support the cornice were replaced with new ones, and the symbols of the Evangelists were
inserted in the upper part of the walls. These reparations are managed with a singular perception
of propriety; and though the manner of the sculpture in the symbolic figures, is not that of
a Gothic artist, yet they are most appropriate, and harmonize admirably with the building.

You must excuse me that, now I am upon this subject, I venture to "travel somewhat out of the
record," for the sake of proposing to you a difficulty which has long puzzled me:--the connection
which Catholic divines find between St. Luke's Bull and the word Zecharias;--for it appears,
by the following distich from the Rhenish Testament, that some such cause leads them to regard
this symbol as peculiarly appropriate to the third Evangelist:--

    "Effigies vituli, Luca, tibi convenit; extat
    Zacariæ in scriptis mentio prima tuis."--

An antiquary might be perplexed by these figures, the drawings whereof I now send you. He would
find it impossible to suppose the exquisitely-sculptured images and the slender shafts with
richly-wrought capitals, of the same date as the solid simple piers and arches all around;
and yet the stone is so entirely the same, and the workmanship is so well united, that it would
require an experienced eye to trace the junction. In the middle of the sixteenth century, the
central tower was also found to need reparation; and the church, upon this occasion, sustained
a lasting injury, in the loss of its original spire, which was of lead, and of great height
and beauty. It was taken down, under pretence of its insecurity; but in reality the monks only
wished to get the metal. This happened in 1557, under Gabriel le Veneur, Bishop of Evreux,
the then abbot. Five years afterwards the ravages of the Huguenots succeeded: the injury done
to Jumieges by these sectaries, was estimated at eighty thousand francs; and the library and
records of the convent perished in the devastation.

The western front of the church still remains almost perfect; and it is most singular. It consists,
of three distinct parts; the central division being nearly of equal width to the other two
conjointly, and projecting considerably beyond them. The character of the whole is simplicity:
the circular door-way is comparatively small, and entirely without ornament, except a pillar
on each side; the six circular-headed windows over the entrance, disposed in a double row,
are equally plain. Immediately above the upper tier of windows, is a projecting chequered cornice;
and, still higher, where the gable assumes a triangular form, are three lancet-shaped apertures,
so extremely narrow, that they resemble the loop-holes of a dungeon rather than the windows
of a church. In each of the lateral compartments was likewise originally a door-way, and above
it a single window, all of the same Norman style, but all now blocked up. These compartments
are surmounted with short towers, capped with conical spires. The towers appear from their
style and masonry to be nearly coeval with the lower part of the building, though not altogether
so: the southern is somewhat the most modern. They are, however, so entirely dissimilar in
plan from the rest of the front, that we cannot readily admit that they are a portion of the
original design. Nor are they even like to each other. Both of them are square at their bases,
and preserve this form to a sufficient height to admit of two tiers of narrow windows, separated
from each other by little more than a simple string-course. Above these windows both become
octagon, and continue so to the top; but in a very different manner. The northern one has obtuse
angles, imperfectly defined; the southern has four projecting buttresses and four windows,
alternating with each other. The form of the windows and their arrangement, afford farther
marks of distinction. The octagon part is in both turrets longer than the square, but, like
it, divided into two stories.

The central tower of the church, which was large and square, is now reduced to a fragment:
three of its sides are gone; the western remains sufficiently perfect to shew what the whole
was when entire. It contained a double tier of arches, the lower consisting of two, which were
large and simple, the upper of three, divided by central shafts and masonry, so that each formed
a double window. All of them were circular-headed, but so far differed from the architecture
of the nave, that they had side-pillars with capitals.

The church[15] was entered by a long narrow porch.--The nave is a fine specimen of Norman architecture,
but is remarkable in that style for one striking peculiarity, that the eight wide circular
arches on either side, which separate it from the aisles, are alternately supported by round
pillars and square piers; the latter having semi-cylindrical columns applied to each of their
sides. The capitals are ornamented with rude volutes. The arches in the triforium are of nearly
the same width as those below, but considerably less in height. There is no archivolt or moulding
or ornament. Above these there is only one row of windows, which, like all the rest, are semi-circular
headed; but they have neither angular pillars, nor mouldings, nor mullions. These windows are
rather narrow externally, but within the opening enlarges considerably. The windows in the
upper and lower tiers stand singly: in the intermediate row they are disposed by threes, the
central one separated from the other two by a single column.--The inside of the nave is striking
from its simplicity: it is wholly of the eleventh century, except the reparations already mentioned,
which were made in 1688.--The choir and Lady-Chapel are nearly demolished; and only some fragments
of them are now standing: they were of pointed architecture, and posterior to the nave by at
least two centuries.

A smaller church, dedicated to St. Peter, stood near the principal one, with which it was connected
by means of a corridor of pointed arches. There are other instances of two churches being erected
within the precincts of one abbey, as at Bury St. Edmund's. St. Peter's was a building at least
of equal antiquity with the great church. But it had undergone such alterations in the year
1334, during the prelacy of the twenty-seventh abbot, William Gemblet, that little of the original
structure remained. He demolished nearly the whole of the nave, for the sake of adding uniformity
to the cloisters of the monastery.--M. Le Prevost, however, is of opinion, that the ruins of
Jumieges contain nothing more interesting to an antiquary than the west end of the portion
of building, which subsequently served as the nave. It is a mass of flint-work; and he considers
it as having belonged to the church that existed before the incursion of the Normans.

The cloisters, which stood to the south-west of St. Peter's, are now almost wholly destroyed.--To
the west of them is a large hall or gallery, known by the name of la Salle des Chevaliers.
It is entered by two porches, one towards the north-west, the other towards the south-west[16],
both full of architectural beauty and curiosity. I know of no authority for their date; but,
from the great variety and richness of their ornaments, and the elegant taste displayed in
the arrangement of these, I should suppose them to have been erected during the latter half
of the twelfth century: one of the arches is unquestionably pointed, though the cusp of the
arch is very obtuse. The slight sketch which accompanies this letter, represents a fragment
of the inner door-way of the south-west porch, and may enable you to form your own judgment
upon the subject.

The stones immediately over the entrance are joggled into each other, the key-stone having
a joggle on either side.--I have not observed this peculiarity in any other specimen of Norman
masonry.--Between these porches apartments, along the interior of which runs a cornice, supported
by grotesque corbels, and under it a row of windows, now principally blocked up, disposed in
triplets, a trefoil-headed window being placed between two that are semi-circular, as seen
in the accompanying drawing. The date of the origin of the trefoil-headed arch has been much
disputed: these perhaps are some of the earliest, and they are unquestionably coeval with the
building.

The stupid and disgraceful barbarism, which is now employing itself in the ruins of Jumieges,
has long since annihilated the invaluable monuments which it contained.--In the Lady-Chapel
of the conventual church was buried the heart of the celebrated Agnes Sorel, mistress of Charles
VIIth, who died at Mesnil, about a league from this abbey, during the time when her royal lover
was residing here.--Her death was generally attributed to poison; nor did the people hesitate
in whispering that the fatal potion was administered by order of the Queen. Her son, the profligate
tyrant Louis XIth, detested his father's concubine; and once, forgetting his dignity and his
manhood, he struck the Dame de Beauté.--The statue placed upon the mausoleum represented Agnes
kneeling and offering her heart to the virgin; but this effigy had been removed before the
late troubles: a heart of white marble, which was at the foot of the tomb, had also disappeared.
According to the annals of the abbey, they were destroyed by the Huguenots. The tomb itself,
with various brasses inlaid upon it, remained undisturbed till the period of the revolution,
when the whole memorial was removed, and even her remains were not suffered to rest in peace.
The slab of black marble which covered them, and which bore upon its edges the French inscription
to her memory, is still in existence; though it has changed its place and destination. The
barbarians who pillaged the convent sold it with the rest of the plunder; and it now serves
as a threshold to a house near the Mont aux Malades, at Rouen[17]. The inscription, which is
cut in very elegant Gothic characters, is as follows: a part of it is, however, at present
hidden by its position:--"Cy gist Agnes Surelle, noble damoiselle, en son vivant Dame de Roqueferriere,
de Beaulté, d'Yssouldun, et de Vernon sur Seine, piteuse entre toutes gens, qui de ses biens
donnoit largement aux gens d'église et aux pauvres; qui trespassa le neuvieme jour de Fevrier,
l'an de grace 1449.--Priez Dieu pour elle."--It is justly to be regretted, that some pains
are not taken for the preservation of this relic, which even now would be an ornament to the
cathedral.--The manor-house at Mesnil, where the fair lady died, still retains its chimneys
of the fifteenth century; and ancient paintings are discernible on the walls.

The monument in the church of St. Peter, generally known by the name of le tombeau des énervez,
was of still greater singularity. It was an altar-tomb, raised about two feet above the pavement;
and on the slabs were carved whole-length figures, in alto-relievo, of two boys, each about
sixteen years of age, in rich attire, and ornamented with diadems, broaches, and girdles, all
copiously studded with precious stones. Various traditions concerning this monument are recorded
by authors, and particularly at great length by Father du Plessis[18].--The nameless princes,
for such the splendor of their garb denotes them to have been, were considered, according to
a tradition which prevailed from very early times, as the sons of Clovis and Bathilda, who,
in the absence of their father, were guilty of revolt, and were punished by being hamstrung;
for this is the meaning of the word énervez.--According to this tradition, the monks, in the
thirteenth century, caused the monument to be ornamented with golden fleurs-de-lys, and added
the following epitaph:--

    "Hic in honore Dei requiescit stirps Clodovei,
        Patris bellica gens, bella salutis agens.
     Ad votum matris Bathildis poenituere,
        Scelere pro proprio, proque labore patris."--

Three other lines, preserved by Yepez, in his chronicle, refer to the same tale, but accuse
the princes of a crime of deeper die than mere rebellion against parental authority:--

    "Conjugis est ultus probrum; nam in vincula tradit
     Crudeles natos, pius impietate, simulque
     Et duras pater, o Clodovee, piusque maritus."

Mabillon supposed the tomb to have been erected for Tassilo and his son; but I do not know
how this conjecture is to be reconciled to the appearance of the statues, both representing
persons of equal age. An examination of the grave at the time of the destruction of the abbey,
might have afforded some interesting results; though, had any discovery been made, it would
have been but a poor reward for the desolation which facilitated the research.

       *       *       *       *       *

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 10: Immediately on the opposite side of the Seine, are extensive turf-bogs, which
are of rare occurrence in this part of France; and in them grows the Andromeda polifolia, a
plant that seems hitherto to have been discovered no where else in the kingdom.]

[Footnote 11: The following particulars relative to the territory of Jumieges, as well as the
church, are curious: they are copied from an extract from the Life of St. Philibert, as given
in the Neustria Pia, p. 262.--"Congruè sanè locus ille Gemmeticus est dictus, quippe qui instar
gemmarum multivario sit decore conspicuus. Videas illic arborum comas sylvestrium, multigenos
arborum fructus, solum fertile, prata virentia, hortorum flores suaveolentes, bortis gravidas
vîtes, humum undique cinctam aquis, pascua pecorum uberrima, loca venationi apta, avium cantu
circumsonantia. Sequana fluvius illic cernitur late ambiens: et deindè suo pergeus cursu, uno
duntaxat commeantibus aditu relicto. Ibi mare increscens nunc eructat: nunc in sinum suum revolutum,
navium fert compendia, commercia plurimorum. Nihil illic deest; quicquid vehiculis pedestribus,
et equestribus plaustris, et ratibus subministratur, abunde suppetit. Illic castrum condidere
antiqui; ibi stant, in acie, illustria castra Dei: ibi præ desiderio paradisi suspirantes gemunt,
quibus postea opus non erit, in flammis ultricibus, nihil profuturos edere gemitus. Ibi denique
almus sacerdos, Philibertus, multiplici est laude et prædicatione efferendus: qui instar Patriarchæ
Jacob, in animabus septuaginta, demigravit in hanc eremum, addito grege septemplici, propter
septiformem gratiam spiritus sancti. Ibi enim eius prudentia construxit mÅ“nia quadrata, turrita
mole surgentia; claustra excipiendis adventantibus mirè opportuna. In his domus alma fulget;
habitatoribus digna. Ab Euro surgit Ecclesia, crucis effigie, cujus verticem obtinet Beatissima
Virgo Maria; Altare est ante faciem lectuli, cum Dente sanctiss, patris Philiberti, pictum
gemmarum luminibus, auro argentoque comptum: ab utroque latere, Joannis et Columbani Aræ dant
gloriam Deo; adherent verò a Boreâ, Dyonisii Martyris, et Germani Confessoris, ædiculæ; in
dextrâ domus parte, sacellum nobile extat S. Petri; a latere habens S. Martini oratorium. Ad
Austrum est S. Viri cellula, et petris habens margines; saxis cinguntur claustra camerata:
is decor cunctorum animos oblectans, eum inundantibus aquis, geminus vergit ad Austrum. Habet
autem ipsa domus in longum pedes ducentos nonaginta, in latum quinquaginta: singulis legere
volentibus lucem transmittunt fenestræ vitreæ: subtus habet geminas ædes, alteras condendis
vinis, alteras cibis apparandis accommodatas."]

[Footnote 12: Allusions to the cultivation of the vine at Jumieges, as then commonly practised,
may be found in many other public documents of the fifteenth century: but we may come yet nearer
our own time; for we know that, in the year 1500, there was still a vineyard in the hamlet
of Conihoult, a dependence upon Jumieges, and that the wine called vin de Conihoult, is expressly
mentioned among the articles of which the charitable donations of the monastery consisted.--We
are told, too, that at least eighteen or twenty acres, belonging to the grounds of the abbey
itself, were used as a vineyard as late as 1561.--At present, I believe, vines are scarcely
any where to be seen in Normandy, much north of Gaillon.]

[Footnote 13: In a charter belonging to the monastery, granted by Henry IInd, in 1159, (see
Neustria Pia, p. 323) he gives the convent, "integritatem aquæ ex parte terræ Monachorum, et
Graspais, si fortè capiatur."--The word Graspais is explained by Ducange to be a corruption
of crassus piscis. Noel (in his Essais sur le Département de la Seine Inférieure, II, p. 168)
supposes that it refers particularly to porpoises, which he says are still found in such abundance
in the Seine, nearer its mouth, that the river sometimes appears quite black with them.]

[Footnote 14: The following account of the destruction of the monastery is extracted from William
of Jumieges. (See Duchesne's Scriptores Normanni, p. 219)--"Dehinc Sequanica ora aggrediuntur,
et apud Gemmeticum classica statione obsidionein componunt.... In quo quamplurima multitudo
Episcoporum, seu Clericorum, vel nobilium laïcorum, spretis secularibus pompis, collecta, Christo
Regi militatura, propria colla saluberrimo iugo subegit. Cuius loci Monachi, sive incolæ, Paganorum
adventum comperientes, fugâ lapsi quædam suarum rerum sub terra occulentes, quædam secum asportantes,
Deo juvante evaserunt. Pagani locum vacuum reperientes, Monasterium sanctæ Mariæ sanctíque
Petri, et cuncta ædificia igne iniecto adurunt, in solitudinem omnia redigentes.

(Gisors, July, 1818)

We are now approaching the western frontiers.--Gournay, Gisors, and Andelys, the objects of
our present excursion, are disposed nearly in a line between the capitals of France and Normandy;
and whenever war broke out between the two states, they experienced all the glory, and all
the afflictions of warfare. This district was in fact a kind of debatable land; and hence arose
the numerous strong holds, by which the country was once defended, and whose ruins now adorn
the landscape.

The tract known by modern topographers, under the names of the arrondissemens of Gournay and
of Andelys, constituted one of the general divisions of ancient Normandy, the Pays de Bray.
It was a tract celebrated beyond every other in France, and, from time immemorial, for the
excellence of the products of its dairies. The butter of Bray is an indispensable requisite
at every fashionable table at Paris; and the fromage de Neufchâtel is one of the only two French
cheeses which are honored with a place in the bill of fare at Véry's at Grignon's, or at Beauvilliers'.

The females of the district frequently passed us on the road, carrying their milk and eggs
to the provincial metropolis. Accustomed as we are to the Norman costume, we still thought
that the many-colored attire and long lappetted cap, of the good wife, of Bray, in conjunction
with her steed and its trappings, was a most picturesque addition to the surrounding scenery.
The large pannier on either side of the saddle leaves little room for the lady, except on the
hinder parts of the poor beast; and there she sits, perfectly free and dégagée, without either
pillion or stirrup, showing no small portion of her leg, and occasionally waving a little whip,
ornamented in the handle with tufts of red worsted.--We had scarcely quitted the suburbs of
Rouen before we found ourselves in Darnétal, a place that has risen considerably in importance,
since the revolution, from the activity of its numerous manufacturers. Its population is composed
entirely of individuals of this description, to whose pursuits its situation upon the banks
of the Robec and Aubette is peculiarly favorable: the greater part of the goods manufactured
here are coarse cloths and flannels. Before the revolution, the town belonged to the family
of Montmorenci.--The rest of the ride offered no object of interest. The road, like all the
main post-roads, is certainly wide and straight; but the French seem to think that, if these
two points are but obtained, all the rest may be regarded as matter of supererogation. Hence,
very little attention is paid to the surface of the highways: even on those that are most frequented,
it is thought enough to keep the centre, which is paved, in decent repair: the ruts by the
side are frequently so deep as to be dangerous; and in most cases the cross roads are absolutely
impassable to carriages of every description, except the common carts of the country.--There
is nothing in which England has a more decided superiority over France than in the facility
of communication between its different towns; and there is also nothing which more decidedly
marks a superiority of civilization. English travellers, who usually roll on the beaten track
to and from the capital, return home full of praises of the French roads; but were they to
attempt excursions among the country-towns and villages, their opinion would be wofully altered.--The
forest of Feuillée extends about four leagues on each side of the road, between Rouen and Gournay.
It adds little to the pleasantness of the ride: the trees are planted with regularity, and
the side-branches are trimmed away almost to the very tops. Those therefore who expect overhanging
branches, or the green-wood shade, in a French forest, will be sadly disappointed. On the contrary,
when the wind blows across the road, and the sun shines down it, such a forest only adds to
the heat and closeness of the way.

The country around Gournay is characterized by fertility and abundance; yet, in early times,
the rich valley in which it is situated, was a dreary morass, which separated the Caletes from
the Bellovacences. A causeway crossed the marshes, and formed the only road of communication
between these tribes; and Gournay arose as an intermediate station. Therefore, even prior to
the Norman æra, the town was, from its situation, a strong hold of note; and under the Norman
dukes, Gournay necessarily became of still greater consequence, as the principal fortress on
the French frontier; but the annexation of the duchy to the crown of France, destroyed this
unlucky pre-eminence; and, at present, it is only known as a great staple mart for cheese and
butter. Nor is it advantageously situated for trade; as there is no navigable river or means
of water-carriage in its vicinity. The inhabitants therefore look forward with some anxiety
to the completion of the projected canal from Dieppe.

Gournay is a small, clean, and airy place. The last two circumstances are no trifling recommendation
to those who have just escaped from the dirt and closeness of Rouen. Its streets are completely
those of a country town: the intermixture of wood and clay in the houses gives them a mean
aspect, and there are scarcely two to be found alike, either in size, shape, color, or materials.--The
records of Gournay begin in the reign of Rollo. That prince gave the town, together with the
Norman portion of the Pays de Bray, to Eudes[19], a nobleman of his own nation, to be held
as a fief of the duchy, under the usual military tenure. In one of the earliest rolls of Norman
chieftains[20], the Lord of Gournay is bound, in case of war, to supply the duke with twelve
soldiers from among his vassals, and to arm his dependants for the defence of his portion of
the marches. Hugh, the son of Eudes de Gournay, erected a castle in the vicinity of the church
of St. Hildebert, and the whole town was surrounded with a triple wall and double fosse. The
place was inaccessible to an invading enemy, when these fosses were filled with the waters
of the Epte; but Philip Augustus caused the protecting element to become his most powerful
auxiliary. Willelmus Brito relates his siege with minuteness in his Philippiad, an heroic poem,
devoted to the acts and deeds of the French monarch.--After advancing through Lions and Mortemer,
Philip encamped before Gournay, thus described by the historical bard;--

   "Non procul hinc vicum populosâ genta superbum,
    Divitiis plenum variis, famâque celebrem,
    Rure situm piano, munitum triplice muro,
    Deliciosa nimis speciosaque vallis habebat.
    Nomine GORNACUM, situ inexpugnabilis ipso,
    Etsi nullus ei defensor ab intus adesset;
    Cui multisque aliis præerat Gornacius HUGO.
    Fossæ cujus erant amplæ nimis atque profundae
    Quas sic Epta suo repleret flumine, posset
    Nullus ut ad muros per eas accessus haberi.
    Arte tamen sibi REX tali pessundedit ipsum.
    Haud procul a muris stagnum pergrande tumebat,
    Cujus aquam, pelagi stagnantis more, refusam
    Urget stare lacu sinuoso terreus agger,
    Quadris compactus saxis et cespite multo.
    Hunc REX obrumpi medium facit, effluit inde
    Diluvium immensum, subitâque voragine tota
    Vallis abit maris in speciem, ruit impete vasto
    Eluvies damnosa satis, damnosa colonis.
          *       *       *       *       *
    Municipes fugiunt ne submergantur, et omnis
    Se populus villâ viduat, vacuamque relinquit.
          *       *       *       *       *
    Armis villa potens, muris munita virisque,
    Arte capi nullâ metuens aut viribus ullis,
    Diluvio capitur inopino...............
          *       *       *       *       *
    REX ubi GORNACUM sic in sua jura redegit,
    Indigenas omnes revocans ad propria, pacem
    Indicit populis libertatemque priorem;
    Deinde re-ædificat muros.............

In 1350, after the death of Philip of Valois, Gournay was again separated from France, and
given as a dower to Blanche of Navarre, the widow of that prince, who held it forty-eight years,
when, after her death, it reverted to the crown. At the commencement of the following century,
the town fell, with the rest of the kingdom, into the possession of the English; and once more,
upon the demise of our sovereign, Henry Vth, formed part of the dower of the widowed queen.
On her decease, it devolved upon her son; but a period of eleven years had scarcely elapsed,
when the laws of conquest united it for a third time to the crown of France, in 1449.--From
that period to the revolution, it was constantly in the possession of different noble families
of the kingdom.

The name of Hugo de Gournay is enrolled amongst those who followed the conqueror into England,
and who held lands in capite from him in this country[21]. Hugo was a man of eminent valor,
and his services were requited by the grant of many large possessions; but, after all his military
actions, he sought repose in the abbey of Bec, which had been enriched by his piety. His son,
Girald, who married the sister of William, Earl Warren, accompanied Robert, Duke of Normandy,
into the Holy Land; and the grandson of Girald was in the number of those who followed Richard
Coeur-de-Lion in a similar expedition, and was appointed his commissioner, to receive the English
share of the spoil, after the capture of Acre. He was also among the barons who rose against
King John. Their descendants settled in very early times in our own county, where their possessions
were extensive and valuable.

It was in Gournay that the unfortunate Arthur, heir to the throne of England, received the
order of knighthood, together with the earldoms of Brittany, Poitou, and Angers, from Philip
Augustus, immediately previously to entering upon the expedition, which ultimately ended with
his death; and, according to tradition, it was on this occasion that the town adopted for its
arms the sable shield, charged with a knight in armor, argent[22].

Gournay has now no other remains of antiquity, except the collegiate church of St. Hildebert[23],
which was founded towards the conclusion of the eleventh century, though it was scarcely completed
at the end of the thirteenth. Hence the discrepancy of style observable in the architecture
of its different parts. The west front, in which the windows are all pointed, was probably
one of the last portions completed. The interior is principally of semi-circular architecture,
with piers unusually massy, and capitals no less fanciful and extraordinary than those already
noticed at St. Georges. Here, however, we have fewer monsters. The ornaments consist chiefly
of foliage, and wreaths, and knots, and chequered work, and imitations of members of the antique
capital. Some of the pillars, instead of ending in regular capitals, are surmounted by a narrow
projecting rim, carved with undulating lines. It has been supposed that this ornament, which
is quite peculiar to the church of St. Hildebert, is a kind of hieroglyphical representation
of water.--Perhaps, it is the chamber of Sagittarius; or, perhaps, it is a fess wavy, to which
the same signification has been assigned by heralds.--If this interpretation be correct, the
symbol is allusive to the ancient situation of the town, built in the midst of a marsh, intersected
by two streams, the Epte and the St. Aubin.

While we were on the point of setting out from Gournay, we had the pleasure of meeting Mr.
Cotman, who landed a few days since at Dieppe, and purposes remaining in Normandy, to complete
a series of drawings which he began last year, towards the illustration of the architectural
antiquities of the duchy. He has joined our party, and we are likely to have the advantage
of his society for some little time.

The village of Neufmarché, about a league from Gournay, on the right bank of the Epte, still
retains a small part of its castle, built by Henry Ist, to command the passage of the river,
and to serve as a barrier against the incursions of the French. Its situation is good, upon
an artificial hill, surrounded by a fosse; and the principal entrance is still tolerably entire.
But the rest is merely a shapeless heap of ruins: the interior is wholly under the plough;
and the fragments of denudated walls preserve small remains of the coating of large square
stones, which formerly embellished and protected them. Neufmarché, in the days of Norman sovereignty,
was one of the strong holds of the duchy. The chroniclers[24] speak of the village as being
defended by a fortress, in the reign of William the Conqueror. The church, too, with its semi-circular
architecture, attests the antiquity of the station.

Long before we reached Gisors, we had a view of the keep of the castle, rising majestically
above the town, which is indeed at present "une assez maussade petite ville, qui n'a guère
qu'une rue." From its position and general outline, the castle, at first view, resembles the
remains of Launceston, in Cornwall. It recalled to my mind the impressions of surprise, mixed
with something approaching to awe, which seized me, when the first object that met my eyes
in the morning (for it was late and dark when I reached Launceston) was the noble keep, towering
immediately above my chamber windows, and so near, that it appeared as if I had only to open
them and step into it. I do not mean to draw a parallel between the castles of Launceston and
Gisors, and still less am I about to inquire into the relationship between the Norman and the
Cornish fortresses. The lapse of twenty years has materially weakened my recollection of the
latter, nor would this be a seasonable opportunity for such a disquisition: but the subject
deserves investigation, the result of which may tend to establish the common origin of both,
and to dissipate the day-dreams of Borlase, who longed to dignify the castellated ruins of
the Cornish peninsula, by ascribing them to the Roman conquerors of Britain.

Gisors itself existed before the tenth century; but its chief celebrity was due to William
Rufus, who, anxious to strengthen his frontiers against the power of the kings of France, caused
Robert of Bellême to erect this castle, in 1097. Thus then we have a certain date; and there
is no reason to believe, but that the whole of what is left us is really of the same æra, or
of the following reign, in which it is known that the works were greatly augmented; for Henry
Ist was completely a castle-builder. He was a prince who spared no pains in strengthening and
defending the natural frontiers of his province, as the fortresses of Verneuil, Tillières,
Nonancourt, Anet, Ivry, Château-sur-Epte, Gisors, and many others, abundantly testify. All
these were either actually built, or materially strengthened by him.--This at Gisors, important
from its strength and from its situation, was the source of frequent dissentions between the
sovereigns of England and France, as well as the frequent witness of their plighted faith,
and the scene of their festivities.--In 1119, a well-known interview took place here, between
Henry Ist and Pope Calixtus IInd, who had travelled to France for the purpose of healing the
schisms in the church, and who, after having accomplished that task, was desirous not to quit
the kingdom till he had completed the work of pacification, by reconciling Henry to Louis le
Gros, and to his brother, Robert. The speech of our sovereign upon this occasion, as recorded
by Ordericus Vitalis[25], is a valuable document to the English historian: it sets forth, at
considerable length, his various causes of grievance, whether real, imaginary, or invented,
against the legal heir to our throne.--After a lapse of thirty-nine years, Louis le Jeune succeeded
in annexing Gisors to the crown of France; but he resigned it to our Henry IInd, only three
years subsequently, as a part of the marriage portion of his daughter, Margaret. It then remained
with our countrymen till the conquest of the duchy by Philip Augustus; previously to which
event, that sovereign and Henry met, in the year 1188, under an elm near Gisors, on the road
to Trie, upon receiving the news of the capture of Jerusalem by the Sultan Saladin[26]. The
monarchs, actuated by religious zeal, took up the cross, and mutually pledged themselves to
suspend for a while their respective differences, and direct their united efforts against the
common foe of the christian faith, Legends also tell that, during the conference, a miraculous
cross appeared in the air, as if in ratification of the compact; and hence the inhabitants
derive the armoria bearing of the town; gules, a cross engrailed or[27]. In 1197, Philip embellished
Gisors with new buildings; and he retired hither the following year, after the battle of Courcelles,
a conflict, which began by his endeavor to surprise Richard Coeur-de-Lion, but which ended
with his total defeat. He had well nigh lost his life during the flight, by his horse plunging
with him, all armed as he was, into the Epte.--He took refuge in Gisors; and the golden gate
of the town commemorated his gratitude. With eastern magnificence, he caused the entire portal
to be covered with gold; and the statue of the Virgin, which surmounted it, received the same
splendor.

During the wars between France and England, in the fifteenth century, Gisors was repeatedly
won and lost by the contending parties. In later and more peaceable times, it has been only
known as the provincial capital of the bailiwick of Gisors, and of the Norman portion of the Vexin.

The castle consists of a double ballium, the inner occupying the top of a high artificial mound,
in whose centre stands the keep. The whole of the fortress is of the most solid masonry. Previously
to the discovery of cannon, it could scarcely be regarded otherwise than as impregnable, for
the site which it occupies is admirably adapted for defence; and the walls were as strong as
art could make them.--The outer walls were of great extent: they were defended by two covered
ways, and flanked by several towers, of various shapes.--In the inclosed sketch, you will observe
a circular tower, which is perhaps more perfect than any of the rest. The two entrances which
led to the inner wards, were defended by more massy towers, strengthened with portcullises
and draw-bridges.

The conical mound is almost inaccessible, on account of its steepness. The summit is inclosed
by a circular wall of considerable height, pierced with loop-holes, and strengthened at regular
intervals with buttresses, most of which are small and shallow, and resemble such as are found
in the Norman churches. Those, however, which flank the entrance of the keep, are of a different
character: they project so boldly, that they may rather be considered as bastions or solid
turrets.--The dungeon rises high above all the rest, a lofty octagon tower, with a turret on
one side of the same shape, intended to receive the winding staircase, which still remains,
but in so shattered a state, that we could not venture to ascend it. The shell of the keep
itself is nearly perfect, and is also varied in its outline with projecting piers.--Within
the inner ballium, we discovered the remains of the castle-chapel. More than half, indeed,
of the building is destroyed, but the east end is standing, and is tolerably entire. The roof
is vaulted and groined: the groins spring from short pillars, whose capitals are beautifully
sculptured with foliage; The architecture of the whole is semi-circular; but I should apprehend
it to be posterior to any part of the fortress.--The inside of the castle serves at this time
for a market-hall: the fosse, now dry and planted with trees, forms a delightful walk round
the whole.

We were much disappointed by the church of Gisors; in the illustration of the details of which,
Millin is very diffuse. The building is of considerable magnitude; its proportions are not
unpleasing, and it contains much elaborate sculpture; but the labor has been ill bestowed,
having been lavished without any attention to consistency. It is throughout a jumble of Roman
and Gothic, except that the exterior of the north transept is wholly Gothic. Some of the little
figures which decorate it are very gracefully carved, especially in the drapery. A pillar in
the south aisle, entwined by spiral fillets, is of great singularity and beauty. The dolphin
is introduced in each pannel, and the heraldic form of this fish harmonizes with the gentle
curve of the field upon which it is sculptured. A crown of fleurs-de-lys surrounds the columns
at mid-height. These symbols, as I believe I observed on a former occasion, are often employed
as ornaments by the French architects. The church, which is dedicated to the twin saints, St.
Gervais and St. Protais, is the work of different æras, but principally of the latter half
of the sixteenth century, a time when, as a Frenchman told me, "l'on commença à bâtir dans
le beau style Romain."--The man who made the observation was of the lower order of society,
one of the swinish multitude, who, in England, never dream about styles in architecture. I
mention the circumstance, for the sake of pointing out the difference that exists in these
matters between the two countries.

Here, every man, gentle or simple, educated or uneducated, thinks himself qualified and bound
to deliver his opinion on objects connected with the fine arts; and though such opinions are
of necessity commonly crude, and sometimes absurd, they, on the other hand, frequently display
a degree of feeling, and occasionally of knowledge, that surprises you. It may be true indeed,
as Dr. Johnson said, with some illiberality, of our brethren across the Tweed, that though
"every man may have a mouthful, no one has a belly full;" but it still marks a degree of national
refinement, that any attention whatever is bestowed upon such subjects. This smattering of
knowledge, accompanied with the constant readiness to communicate it, is also agreeable to
a stranger. Except in a few instances at Rouen, I never failed to find civility and attention
among the French. To the ladies of our nation they are uniformly polite though occasionally
their compliments may appear of somewhat a questionable complexion; as it happened to a female
friend of mine to be told, while drawing the church of St, Ouen, "qu'elle avait de l'esprit
comme quatre diables."

         *       *       *       *       *

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 19: Histoire de la Haute Normandie, I, p. 18.]

[Footnote 20: Duchesne, Scriptores Normanni, p. 1046.]

[Footnote 21: Duchesne, Scriptores Normanni, p. 1129.]

[Footnote 22: Histoire de la Haute Normandie, I. p. 20.]

[Footnote 23: See Cotman's Architectural Antiquities of Normandy, plates 38-41.]

[Footnote 24: Ordericus Vitalis, in Duchesne's Scriptores Normanni, p. 490, 491, 606.]

[Footnote 25: Duchesne, Scriptores Normanni, p. 865.]

[Footnote 26: Some writers say that the real cause of their meeting was to settle a difference
of long standing.--Hoveden, as quoted in the Concilia Normannica, I. p. 92, tells us, that
Henry was upon the point of sailing for England, when tidings were brought him that Philip
had collected a great force, with which he threatened to lay Normandy waste, unless the British
monarch surrendered to him Gisors with its dependencies, or caused his son Richard, Count of
Poitou, to marry Alice, sister of the French king;--"Quod cùm regi Angliæ constaret, reversus
est in Normanniam; et, accepte colloquio inter ipsum et Regem Franciæ inter Gisortium et Trie,
XII. Kalendas Februarii, die S. Agnetis V. et Martyris, convenerunt illuc cum Archiepiscopis,
et Episcopis et Comitibus, et Baronibus regnoram suorum. Cui colloquio interfuit Archiepiscopus
Tyri, qui repletus spiritu sapientiæ et intellectus, miro modo prædicavit verbum Domini coram
regibus et principibus. Et convertit corda eorum ad crucem capiendam; et qui priùs hostes erant,
illo prædicante, et Deo co-operante, facti sunt amici in illa die, et de manu ejus crucem receperunt:
et in eadem hora apparuit super eos signum crucis in cÅ“lo. Quo viso miraculo, plures catervatim
ruebant ad susceptionem crucis. Prædicti verò reges in susceptionem crucis, ad cognoscendum
gentem suam, signum sibi et suis providerunt.

(Ecouis, July, 1818)

Our evening journey from Gisors to Andelys, was not without its inconveniences.--The road,
if road it may be called, was sometimes merely a narrow ravine or trench, so closely bordered
by trees and underwood, that our vehicle could scarcely force its way; and sometimes our jaded
horses labored along a waggon-way which wound amidst an expanse of corn-fields. Our postilion
had earnestly requested us to postpone our departure till the following morning; and he swore
and cursed most valiantly during the whole of his ride. On our arrival, however, at Andelys,
a few kind words from my companions served to mitigate his ire; and as their eloquence may
have been assisted by a few extra sous, presented to him at the same time, his nut-brown countenance
brightened up, and all was tranquillity.

Andelys is a town, whose antiquity is not to be questioned: it had existence in the time of
the venerable Bede, by whom it is expressly mentioned, under its Latin appellation, Andilegum[28].
The derivation of this name has afforded employment to etymologists. The syllable and enters,
as it is said, into the composition of the names of sundry places, reported to be founded by
Franks, and Saxons, and Germans; and therefore it is agreed that a Teutonic origin must be
assigned to Andelys. But, as to the import of this same syllable, they are all of them wholly
at a loss.--The history of Andelys is brief and unimportant, considering its antiquity and
situation. It was captured by Louis le Gros in the war which he undertook against Henry Ist,
in favour of Clito, heir of the unfortunate Duke Robert; and his son, Louis le Jeune, in 1166,
burned Andelys to the ground, thus revenging the outrages committed by the Anglo-Normans in
France: in 1197, it was the subject of the exchange which I have already mentioned, between
Richard Coeur-de-Lion and Walter, Archbishop of Rouen; and only a few years afterwards it passed
by capitulation into the possession of Philip Augustus, when the murder of Arthur of Brittany
afforded the French sovereign a plausible pretext for dispossessing our worthless monarch of
his Norman territory.

What Andelys wants, however, in secular interest, it makes up in sanctity. Saint Clotilda founded
a very celebrated monastery here, which was afterwards destroyed by the Normans.--If we now
send our ripening daughters to France, to be schooled and accomplished, the practice prevailed
equally amongst our Anglo-Saxon ancestors; and we learn from Bede, that Andelys was then one
of the most fashionable establishments[29]. However, we must not forget that the fair Elfleda,
and the rosy Ælfgiva, were so taught in the convent, as to be fitted only for the embraces
of a celestial husband--a mode of matrimony which has most fortunately become obsolete in our
days of increasing knowledge and civilization.

After the destruction of the monastery by the Normans, it was never rebuilt; yet its sanctity
is not wholly lost. At the behest of Clotilda, the waters of the fountain of Andelys were changed
into wine for the relief of the weary labourer, and the tutelary saint is still worshipped
by the faithful.

It was our good fortune to arrive at Andelys on the vigil of the festival of Saint Clotilda.
The following morning, at early dawn, the tolling bell announced the returning holiday; and
then we saw the procession advance, priests and acolytes bearing crosses and consecrated banners
and burning tapers, followed by a joyous crowd of votaries and pilgrims. We had wished to approach
the holy well; but the throng thickened around it, and we were forced to desist. We could not
witness the rites, whatever they were, which were performed at the fountain; and long after
they had concluded, it was still surrounded by groups of women, some idling and staring, some
asking charity and whining, and some conducting their little ones to the salutary-fountain.
Many are the infirmities and ailments which are relieved through the intercession of Saint
Clotilda, after the patient has been plunged in the gelid spring. A Parisian sceptic might
incline to ascribe a portion of their cures to cold-bathing and ablution; but, at Andelys,
no one ever thought of diminishing the veneration, inspired by the Christian queen of the founder
of the monarchy. Several children were pointed out to us, heretical strangers, as living proofs
of the continuance of miracles in the Catholic church. They had been cured on the preceding
anniversary; for it is only on Saint Clotilda's day that her benign influence is shed upon
the spring.

Andelys possesses a valuable specimen of ancient domestic architecture. The Great House[30]
is a most sumptuous mansion, evidently of the age of Francis Ist; but I could gain no account
of its former occupants or history. I must again borrow from my friend's vocabulary, and say,
that it is built in the "Burgundian style." In its general outline and character, it resembles
the house in the Place de la Pucelle, at Rouen. Its walls, indeed, are not covered with the
same profusion of sculpture; yet, perhaps, its simplicity is accompanied by greater elegance.--The
windows are disposed in three divisions, formed by slender buttresses, which run up to the
roof. They are square-headed, and divided by a mullion and transom.--The portal is in the centre:
it is formed by a Tudor arch, enriched with deep mouldings, and surmounted by a lofty ogee,
ending with a crocketed pinnacle, which transfixes the cornice immediately above, as well as
the sill of the window, and then unites with the mullion of the latter.--The roof takes a very
high pitch.--A figured cornice, upon which it rests, is boldly sculptured with foliage.--The
chimneys are ornamented by angular buttresses.--All these portions of the building assimilate
more or less to our Gothic architecture of the sixteenth century; but a most magnificent oriel
window, which fills the whole of the space between the centre and left-hand divisions, is a
specimen of pointed architecture in its best and purest style. The arches are lofty and acute.
Each angle is formed by a double buttress, and the tabernacles affixed to these are filled
with statues. The basement of the oriel, which projects from the flat wall of the house, after
the fashion of a bartizan, is divided into compartments, studded with medallions, and intermixed
with tracery of great variety and beauty. On either side of the bay, there are flying buttresses
of elaborate sculpture, spreading along the wall.--As, comparatively speaking, good models
of ancient domestic architecture are very rare, I would particularly recommend this at Andelys
to the notice of every architect, whom chance may conduct to Normandy.--This building, like
too many others of the same class in our own counties of Norfolk and Suffolk, is degraded from
its station. The great house is used merely as a granary, though, by a very small expence,
it might be put into habitable repair. The stone retains its clear and polished surface; and
the massy timbers are undecayed.--The inside corresponds with the exterior, in decorations
and grandeur: the chimney-pieces are large and elaborate, and there is abundance of sculpture
on the ceilings and other parts which admit of ornament.

The French, in speaking of Andelys, commonly use the plural number, and say, les Andelys, there
being a smaller town of the same name, within the distance of a mile: hence, the larger, all
inconsiderable as it is, and though it scarcely contains two thousand inhabitants, is dignified
by the appellation of le Grand Andelys.

As the French seldom neglect the memory of their eminent men, I was rather disappointed at
not finding any tribute to the glory of Poussin, nor any object which could recal his name.--The
great master of the French school was born at Andelys, in 1594, of poor but noble parents.
The talents of the painter of the Deluge overcame all obstacles. Young Poussin, with barely
a sufficiency to buy his daily bread, found means of making his abilities known in the metropolis
to such advantage, as enabled him to proceed to Rome, where the patronage of the Cavaliere
Marino smoothed his way to that splendid career, which terminated only with his life.--And
yet I doubt if the example of Poussin has, on the whole, been favorable to the progress of
French art. Horace Walpole, in his summary of the excellencies and defects of great painters,
observed with much justice, that "Titian wanted to have seen the antique; Poussin to have seen
Titian." The observation referred principally to the defective coloring, which is admitted
to exist in the greater part of the works of the painter of Andelys. But Poussin, considered
as a model for imitation, and especially as a model for the student, is liable to a more serious
objection.--He was a total stranger to real nature:--classical taste, indeed, and knowledge,
and grace, and beauty, pervade all his works; but it is a taste, and a knowledge, and a grace,
and a beauty, formed solely upon the contemplation of the antique. Horace's adage, that "decipit
exemplar vitiis imitabile," has been remarkably verified in the case of Poussin; and I am mistaken,
if the example set by him, which has been rigorously followed in the French school, even down
to the present day, has not contributed more than any thing else to that statuary style in
forms, and that coldness in coloring, which every one, who is not born in France, regrets to
see in the works of the best of their artists.--The learned Adrian Turnebus was also a native
of Andelys; and the church is distinguished as the burial-place of Corneille.

I doubt, however, whether we should have travelled hither, had we not been attracted by the
celebrity of the castle, called Château Gaillard, erected by Richard Coeur-de-Lion, in the
immediate vicinity of Le Petit Andelys.--Our guide, a sturdy old dame, remonstrated strongly
against our walking so far to look at a mere heap of stones, nothing comparable to the fine
statue of Clotilda, of which, if we would but have a little patience, we might still procure
a sight.--Our expectations respecting the castle were more than answered. Considered as to
its dimensions and its situation, it is by far the finest castellated ruin I ever saw. Conway,
indeed, has more beauty; but Château Gaillard is infinitely superior in dignity. Its ruins
crown the summit of a lofty rock, abruptly rising from the very edge of the Seine, whose sinuous
course here shapes the adjoining land into a narrow peninsula. The chalky cliffs on each side
of the castle, are broken into hills of romantic shape, which add to the impressive wildness
of the scene. The inclosed sketch will give you an idea, though a very faint one, of the general
appearance of the castle at a distance. Towards the river, the steepness of the cliff renders
the fortress unassailable: a double fosse of great depth, defended by a strong wall, originally
afforded almost equal protection on the opposite side.

The circular keep is of extraordinary strength; and in its construction it differs wholly from
any of our English dungeon-towers.--It may be described as a cylinder, placed upon a truncated
cone. The massy perpendicular buttresses, which are ranged round the upper wall, from which
they project considerably, lose themselves at their bases in the cone from which they arise.
The building, therefore, appears to be divided into two stories. The wall of the second story
is upwards of twelve feet in thickness. The base of the conical portion is perhaps twice as
thick.--It seldom happens that the military buildings of the middle ages have such a talus
or slope, on the exterior face, agreeing with the principles of modern fortification, and it
is difficult to guess why the architect of Château Gaillard thought fit to vary from the established
model of his age. The masonry is regular and good. The pointed windows are evidently insertions
of a period long subsequent to the original erection.

The inner, ballium is surrounded by a high circular wall, which consists of an uninterrupted
line of bastions, some semi-circular and others square.--The whole of this part of the castle
remains nearly perfect. There are also traces of extensive foundations in various, directions,
and of great out-works. Château Gaillard was in fact a citadel, supported by numerous smaller
fortresses, all of them communicating with the strong central hold, and disposed so as to secure
every defensible post in the neighborhood. The wall of the outer ballium, which was built of
a compact white and grey stone, is in most places standing, though in ruins. The original facing
only remains in those parts which are too elevated to admit of its being removed with ease.--Beneath
the castle, the cliff is excavated into a series of subterraneous caverns, not intended for
mere passages or vaults, as at Arques and in most other places, but forming spacious crypts,
supported by pillars roughly hewn out of the living rock, and still retaining every mark of
the workman's chisel.

It will afford some satisfaction to the antiquary to find, that the present appearance of the
castle corresponds in every important particular with the description given by Willelmus Brito,
who beheld it within a few years after its erection, and in all its pride. Every feature which
he enumerates yet exists, unaltered and unobliterated:--

    "Huic natura loco satis insuperabile per se
     Munimeu dederat, tamen insuperabiliorem
     Arte quidem multa Richardus fecerat illum.
     Duplicibus muris extrema clausit, et altas
     Circuitum docuit per totum surgere turres,
     A se distantes spatiis altrinsecus æquis;
     Eruderans utrumque latus, ne scandere quisquam
     Ad muros possit, vel ab ima repere valle.
     Hinc ex transverso medium per planitiei
     Erigitur murus, multoque labore cavari
     Cogitur ipse silex, fossaque patere profunda,
     Faucibus et latis aperiri vallis ad instar;
     Sic ut quam subito fiat munitio duplex
     Quæ fuit una modo muro geminata sequestro.
     Ut si forte pati partem contingeret istam
     Altera municipes, queat, et se tuta tueri.
     Inde rotundavit rupem, quæ celsior omni
     Planitie summum se tollit in aera sursum;
     Et muris sepsit, extremas desuper oras
     Castigansque jugi scrupulosa cacumina, totum
     Complanat medium, multæque capacia turbæ
     Plurima cum domibus habitacula fabricat intus.
     Umboni parcens soli, quo condidit arcem.
     Hic situs iste decor, munitio talis honorem
     Gaillardæ rupis per totum prædicat orbem."

The keep cannot be ascended without difficulty. We ventured to scale it; and we were fully
repaid for our labor by the prospect which we gained. The Seine, full of green willowy islands,
flows beneath the rock in large lazy windings: the peninsula below is flat, fertile, and well
wooded: on the opposite shores, the fantastic chalky cliffs rise boldly, crowned with dark forests.

I have already once had occasion to allude to the memorable strife occasioned by the erection
of Château Gaillard, which its royal founder is reported to have so named by way of mockery.
In possession of this fortress, it seemed that he might laugh to scorn the attacks of his feudal
liege lord.--The date of the commencement of the building is supposed to have been about the
year 1196, immediately subsequent to the treaty of Louviers, by which, Richard ceded to Philip
Augustus the military line of the Epte, and nearly the whole of the Norman Vexin. By an express
article of the treaty, neither party was allowed to repair the fortifications of Andelys; and
Philip was in possession of Gisors, as well as of every other post that might have afforded
security to the Normans. Thus the frontiers of the duchy became defenceless; but Richard, like
other politicians, determined to evade the spirit of the treaty, adhering nevertheless to its
letter, by the erection of this mighty bulwark.--The building arose with the activity of fear.
Richard died in 1199, yet the castle must have been completely habitable in his life-time,
for not a few of his charters are dated from Château Gaillard, which he terms "his beautiful
castle of the rock."--Three years only had elapsed from the decease of this monarch, when Philip
Augustus, after having reduced another castle, erected at the same time upon an island opposite
the lesser Andelys, encamped before Château Gaillard, and commenced a siege, which from its
length, its horrors, and the valor shewn on either side, has ever since been memorable in history.--Its
details are given at great length by Father Daniel; and Du Moulin briefly enumerates a few
of the stratagems to which the French King was obliged to have recourse; for, as the reverend
author observes, "to have attempted to carry the place by force, would have been to have exposed
the army to certain destruction; while to have tried to scale the walls, would have required
the aid of Dædalus, with the certainty of a fall, as fatal as that of Icarus;" and without
the poor consolation of

   ".... vitreo daturus
    Nomina ponto."--

The castle, commanded by Roger de Lacy, defied the utmost efforts of Philip for six successive
months.--So great was its size; that more than two thousand two hundred persons, who did not
form a part of the garrison, were known to quit the fortress in the course of the siege, compelled
to throw themselves upon the mercy of the besiegers. But they found none; and the greater part
of these unfortunate wretches, alternately suppliants to either host, perished from hunger,
or from the weapons of the contending parties. At length the fortress yielded to a sudden assault.
Of the warriors, to whose valor it had been entrusted, only thirty-six remained alive. John,
ill requiting their fidelity, had already abandoned them to their fate.

Margaret of Burgundy, the queen of Louis Xth, and Blanche, the consort of his brother, Charles
le Bel, were both immured in Château Gaillard, in 1314. The scandalous chronicle of those times
will explain the causes of their imprisonment. Margaret was strangled by order of her husband.
Blanche, after seven years' captivity, was transferred to the convent of Maubuisson, near Pontoise,
where she continued a recluse till her death--In 1331, David Bruce, compelled to flee from
the superior power of the third Edward, found an asylum in Château Gaillard; and here, for
a time, maintained the pageantry of a court.--Twenty-four years subsequently, when Charles
the Bad, king of Navarre, was sent as a captive from Rouen to Paris, he was confined here,
during one night, by order of the dauphin, who had made him his prisoner by treachery, whilst
partaking of a banquet.--In the following century Château Gaillard braved the victorious arms
of Henry Vth; nor was it taken till after a siege of sixteen months. The garrison only consisted
of one hundred and twenty men; yet this scanty troop would not have yielded, had not the ropes,
by which they drew up their water-buckets[31], been worn out and destroyed.--During the same
reign, it was again taken and lost by the French, into whose hands it finally fell in 1449,
when Charles VIIth commanded the siege in person. Even then, however it stood a long siege;
and it was almost the last of the strong-holds of Normandy, which held out for the successors
of the ancient dukes. After the re-union of the duchy, it was not destroyed, or suffered to
fall into decay, like the greater number of the Norman fortresses: during the religious wars,
it still continued to be a formidable military post, as well as a royal palace; and it was
honored by the residence of Henry IVth, whose father, Anthony of Bourbon, died here in 1562.--Its
importance ceased in the following reign.--The inhabitants of the adjacent country requested
the king to order that the castle should be dismantled. They dreaded, lest its towers should
serve as an asylum to some of the numerous bands of marauders, by whom France was then infested.
It was consequently undermined and reduced to its present state of ruin.

We did not again attempt to pay our devotions at the shrine of Saint Clotilda, and we found
no interesting object in the church of Andelys which could detain us. We therefore proceeded
without delay to Ecouis, where we were assured that the church would gratify our curiosity.--This
building has an air of grandeur as it is seen rising above the flat country; and it is of a
singular shape, the ground-plan being that of a Greek cross. The exterior is plain and offers
nothing remarkable: the interior retains statues of various saints, which, though not very
ancient or in very good taste, are still far from being inelegant. Saint Mary, the Egyptian,
who is among them, covered with her tresses, which may easily be mistaken for a long plaited
robe, is a saint of unfrequent occurrence in this part of France. In the choir are several
tomb-stones, with figures engraved upon them, their faces and hands being inlaid with white
marble.--In this part of the building also remains the tomb of John Marigni, archbishop of
Rouen, with his effigy of fine white marble, in perfect preservation. The face is marked with
a strong expression of that determined character, which he unquestionably possessed. When he
was sent as an ambassador to Edward IIIrd, in 1342, he made his appearance at the English court
in the guise of a military man, and not as a minister of peace; and we may doubt whether his
virtues qualified him for the mitre. If even a Pope, however, in latter days, commanded a sculptor
to pourtray him with a sword in his hand, the martial tendency of an archbishop may well be
pardoned in more turbulent times. The following distich, from his epitaph, alludes to his achievements:--

   "Armis præcinctus, mentisque charactere cinctus,
    Dux fuit in bellis, Anglis virtute rebellis."

The unfortunate Enguerrand de Marigni, brother of the archbishop, and lord treasurer under
Philip the Fair, was the founder of this church. At the instigation of the king's uncle, Enguerrand
was hanged without trial, and his family experienced the most bitter persecution. His body,
which had at first been interred in the convent of the Chartreux, at Paris, was removed hither
in 1324; and his descendants obtained permission, in 1475, to erect a mausoleum to his memory.
But the king, at the same time that he acceded to their petition, added the express condition[32],
that no allusion should be made to Marigni's tragical end. The monument was destroyed in the
revolution; but the murder of the treasurer is one of those "damned spots," which will never
be washed out of the history of France.--Charles de Valois soon felt the sting of remorse;
and within a year from the wreaking of his vengeance, he caused alms to be publicly distributed
in the streets of Paris, with an injunction to every one that received them, "to pray to God
for the souls of Enguerrand de Marigni, and Charles de Valois, taking care to put the subject
first[33]."--In the church at Ecouis, was formerly the following epitaph, whose obscurity has
given rise to a variety of traditions:--

   "Ci gist le fils, ci gist la mere,
    Ci gist la soeur, ci gist le frère,
    Ci gist la femme, et le mari;
    Et ci ne sont que deux ici[34]."

Other inscriptions of the same nature are said to have existed in England. Goube[35] supposes
that this one is the record of an incestuous connection; but we may doubt whether a less sinful
solution may not be given to the enigma.

      *       *       *       *       *

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 28: Andelys is also called in old deeds Andeleium and Andeliacum.]

[Footnote 29: "Seculo septimo, cum pauca essent in regione Anglorum monasteria, hunc morem
in illâ gente fuisse, ut multi ex Britanniâ, monastiae conversationis gratiâ, Francorum monasteria
adirent, sed et filias suas eisdem erudiendas ac sponso coelesti copulandas mitterent, maximè
in Brigensi seu S. Farae monasterio, et in Calensi et in Andilegum monasterio."--Bede, Hist.
lib. III. cap. 8.]

[Footnote 30: Cotman's Architectural Antiquities of Normandy, plate 15.--In a future portion
of his work, Mr. Cotman designs devoting a second plate exclusively to the oriel in the east
front of this building.]

[Footnote 31: Monstrelet, Johnes' Translation, II. p. 242.]

[Footnote 32: The letter of this stipulation appears to have been attended to much more than
its spirit for at the top of the monument were five figures:--Our Savior seated in the centre,
as if in the act of pronouncing sentence; on either side of him, an angel; and below, Charles
de Valois and Enguerrand de Marigni; the former on the right of Christ, crowned with the ducal
coronet; the other, on the opposite side, in the guise and posture of a suppliant, imploring
the divine vengeance for his unjust fate.--Histoire de la Haute Normandie, II. p. 338.]

[Footnote 33: Montfaucon, Monumens de la Monarchie Française, II. p. 220.]

[Footnote 34: In a collection of epitaphs printed at Cologne, 1623, under the title of Epitaphia
Joco-seria, I find the same monumental inscription, with the observation, that it is at Tournay,
and with the following explanation.--"De pari conjugum, posteà ad religionem transeuntium et
in eâ præfectorum.

(Evreux, July, 1818.)

Our journey to this city has not afforded the gratification which we anticipated.--You may
recollect Ducarel's eulogium upon the cathedral, that it is one of the finest structures of
the kind in France.--It is our fate to be continually at variance with the doctor, till I am
half inclined to fear you may be led to suspect that jealousy has something to do with the
matter, and that I fall under the ban of the old Greek proverb,--

    "ÎšÎ±Î¹ Ï°ÎµÏÎ±Î¼ÎµÏ…Ï‚ Ï°ÎµÏÎ±Î¼ÎµÎ¹ Î¦Ï‘Î¿Î½ÎµÎµÎ¹ Ï°Î±Î¹ Ï„ÎµÏ°Ï„Î¿Î½Î¹ Ï„ÎµÏ°Ï„Ï‰Î½."--

[English. Not in Original: The potter is jealous of the potter, as the builder is jealous of
the builder.]

As for myself, however, I do hope and trust that I am marvellously free from antiquarian spite.--And
in this instance, our expectations were also raised by the antiquity and sanctity of the cathedral,
which was entirely rebuilt by Henry Ist, who made a considerate bargain with Bishop Audinus[36],
by which he was allowed to burn the city and its rebellious inhabitants, upon condition of
bestowing his treasures for the re-construction of the monasteries, after the impending conflagration.
The church, thus raised, is said by William of Jumieges[37], to have surpassed every other
in Neustria; but it is certain that only a very small portion of the original building now
remains. A second destruction awaited it. Philip Augustus, who desolated the county of Evreux
with fire and sword, stormed the capital, sparing neither age nor sex; and all its buildings,
whether sacred or profane, were burnt to the ground. Hoveden, his friend, and Brito, his enemy,
both bear witness to this fact--the latter in the following lines:--

   "... irarum stimulis agitatus, ad omne
    Excidium partis adversæ totus inardens,
    Ebroicas primò sic incineravit, ut omnes
    Cum domibus simul ecclesias consumpserit ignis."--

The church, in its present state, is a medley of many different styles and ages: the nave alone
retains vestiges of early architecture, in its massy piers and semi-circular arches: these
are evidently of Norman workmanship, and are probably part of the church erected by Henry.--All
the rest is comparatively modern.--The western front is of a debased Palladian style, singularly
ill adapted to a Gothic cathedral. It is flanked with two towers, one of which ends in a cupola,
the other in a short cone.--The central tower, which is comparatively plain and surmounted
by a high spire, was built about the middle of the fifteenth century, during the bishopric
of the celebrated John de Balue, who was in high favor with Louis XIth, and obtained from that
monarch great assistance towards repairing, enlarging, and beautifying his church. The roof,
the transept towards the palace, the sacristy, the library, and a portion of the cloisters,
are all said to have been erected by him[38].--The northern transept is the only part that
can now lay claim to beauty or uniformity in its architecture: it is of late and bastard Gothic;
yet the portal is not destitute of merit: it is evidently copied from the western portal of
the cathedral at Rouen, though far inferior in every respect, and with a decided tendency towards
the Italian style. Almost every part of it still appears full of elaborate ornaments, though
all the saints and bishops have fled from the arched door-way, and the bas-relief which was
over the entrance has equally disappeared.

Ducarel[39] notices four statues of canons, attached to a couple of pillars at the back of
the chancel.--We were desirous of seeing authentic specimens of sculpture of a period at least
as remote as the conquest; and, as the garden belonging to the prefect, the Comte de Goyon,
incloses this portion of the church, we requested to be allowed to enter his grounds. Leave
was most obligingly granted, and we received every attention from the prefect and his lady;
but we could find no traces of the objects of our search. They were probably destroyed during
the revolution; at which time, the count told us that the statues at the north portal were
also broken to pieces. At Evreux, the democrats had full scope for the exercise of their iconoclastic
fury. Little or no previous injury had been done by the Calvinists, who appear to have been
unable to gain any ascendency in this town or diocese, at the same time that they lorded it
over the rest of Normandy. Evreux had been fortified against heresy, by the piety and good
sense of two of her bishops: they foresaw the coming storm, and they took steps to redress
the grievances which were objects of complaint, as well as to reform the church-establishment,
and to revise the breviary and the mass-book.--Conduct like this seldom fails in its effect;
and the tranquil by-stander may regret that it is not more frequently adopted by contending
parties.

The interior of the cathedral is handsome, though not peculiar. Some good specimens of painted
glass remain in the windows; and, in various parts of the church, there are elegant tabernacles
and detached pieces of sculpture, as well in stone as in wood. The pulpit, in particular, is
deserving of this praise: it is supported on cherubs' heads, and is well designed and executed.

The building is dedicated to the Virgin: it claims for its first bishop, Taurinus, a saint
of the third century, memorable in legendary tale for a desperate battle which he fought against
the devil. Satan was sadly drubbed and the bishop wrenched off one of his horns[40]. The trophy
was deposited in the crypt of his church, where it long remained, to amuse the curious, and
stand the nurses of Evreux in good stead, as the means of quieting noisy children.--The learned
Cardinal Du Perron succeeded to St. Taurinus, though at an immense distance of time. He was
appointed by Henry IVth, towards whose conversion he appears to have been greatly instrumental,
as he was afterwards the principal mediator, by whose intercession the Pope was induced to
grant absolution to the monarch. The task was one of some difficulty: for the court of Spain,
then powerful at the Vatican, used all their efforts to prevent a reconciliation, with a view
of fomenting the troubles in France.--Most of the bishops of this see appear to have possessed
great piety and talent.

I have already mentioned to you, that the fraternity of the Conards was established at Evreux,
as well as at Rouen. Another institution, of equal absurdity, was peculiar, I believe, to this
cathedral[41]. It bore the name of the Feast of St. Vital, as it united with the anniversary
of that saint, which is celebrated on the first of May: the origin of the custom may be derived
from the heathen Floralia, a ceremony begun in innocence, continued to abomination. At its
first institution, the feast of St. Vital was a simple and a natural rite: the statues of the
saints were crowned with garlands of foliage, perhaps as an offering of the first-fruits of
the opening year. In process of time, branches were substituted for leaves, and they were cut
from the growing trees, by a lengthened train of rabble pilgrims.--The clergy themselves headed
the mob, who committed such devastation in the neighboring woods, that the owners of them were
glad to compromise for the safety of their timber, by stationing persons to supply the physical,
as well as the religious, wants of the populace. The excesses consequent upon such a practice
may easily be imagined: the duration of the feast was gradually extended to ten days; and,
during this time, licentiousness of all kinds prevailed under the plea of religion. To use
the words of a manuscript, preserved in the archives of the cathedral, they played at skittles
on the roof of the church, and the bells were kept continually ringing. These orgies, at length,
were quelled; but not till two prebendaries belonging to the chapter, had nearly lost their
lives in the attempt.--Hitherto, indeed, the clergy had enjoyed the merriment full as well
as the laity. One jolly canon, appropriately named Jean Bouteille, made a will, in which he
declared himself the protector of the feast; and he directed that, on its anniversary, a pall
should be spread in the midst of the church, with a gigantic bottle in its centre, and four
smaller ones at the corners; and he took care to provide funds for the perpetuation of this rebus.

The cathedral offers few subjects for the pencil.--As a species of monument, of which we have
no specimens in England, I add a sketch of a Gothic puteal, which stands near the north portal.
It is apparently of the same æra as that part of the church.

From the cathedral we went to the church of St. Taurinus. The proud abbey of the apostle and
first bishop of the diocese retains few or no traces of its former dignity. So long as monachism
flourished, a contest existed between the chapter of the cathedral and the brethren of this
monastery, each advocating the precedency of their respective establishment.--The monks of
St. Taurinus contended, that their abbey was expressly mentioned by William of Jumieges[42]
among the most ancient in Neustria, as well as among those which were destroyed by the Normans,
and rebuilt by the zeal of good princes. They also alleged the dispute that prevailed under
the Norman dukes for more than two hundred years, between this convent and that of Fécamp,
respecting the right of nominating one of their own brethren to the head of their community,
a right which was claimed by Fécamp; and they displayed the series of their prelates, continued
in an uninterrupted line from the time of their founder. Whatever may have been the justice
of these claims, the antiquity of the monastery is admitted by all parties.--Its monks, like
those of the abbey of St. Ouen, had the privilege of receiving every new bishop of the see,
on the first day of his arrival at Evreux; and his corpse was deposited in their church, where
the funeral obsequies were performed. This privilege, originally intended only as a mark of
distinction to the abbey, was on two occasions perverted to a purpose that might scarcely have
been expected. Upon the death of Bishop John d'Aubergenville in 1256, the monks resented the
reformation which he had endeavoured to introduce into their order, by refusing to admit his
body within their precinct; and though fined for their obstinacy, they did not learn wisdom
by experience, but forty-three years afterwards shewed their hostility decidedly towards the
remains of Geoffrey of Bar, a still more determined reformer of monastic abuses. Extreme was
the licentiousness which prevailed in those days among the monks of St. Taurinus, and unceasing
were the endeavors of the bishop to correct them. The contest continued during his life, at
the close of which they not only shut their doors against his corpse, but dragged it from the
coffin and gave it a public flagellation. So gross an act of indecency would in all probability
be classed among the many scandalous tales invented of ecclesiastics, but that the judicial
proceedings which ensued leave no doubt of its truth; and it was even recorded in the burial
register of the cathedral.

The church of St. Taurinus offers some valuable specimens of ancient architecture.--The southern
transept still preserves a row of Norman arches, running along the lower part of its west side,
as well as along its front; but those above them are pointed. To the south are six circular
arches, divided into two compartments, in each of which the central arch has formerly served
for a window. Both the lateral ones are filled with coeval stone-work, whose face is carved
into lozenges, which were alternately coated with blue and red mortar or stucco: distinct traces
of the coloring are still left in the cavities[43]. To the eastern side of this transept is
attached, as at St. Georges, a small chapel, of semi-circular architecture, now greatly in
ruins. The interior of the church is all comparatively modern, with the exception of some of
the lower arches on the north side.--A strange and whimsical vessel for holy water attracted
our attention. I cannot venture to guess at its date, but I do not think it is more recent
than the fourteenth century.

The principal curiosity of the church, and indeed of the town, is the shrine, which contained,
or perhaps, contains, a portion of the bones of the patron saint, whose body, after having
continued for more than three hundred years a hidden treasure, was at last revealed in a miraculous
manner to the prayers of Landulphus, one of his successors in the episcopacy.--The cathedral
of Chartres, in early ages, set up a rival claim for the possession of this precious relic;
but its existence here was formally verified at the end of the seventeenth century, by the
opening of the châsse, in which a small quantity of bones was found tied up in a leather bag,
with a certificate of their authenticity, signed by an early bishop.--The shrine is of silver-gilt,
about one and a half foot in height and two feet in length: it is a fine specimen of ancient
art. In shape it resembles the nave of a church, with the sides richly enchased with figures
of saints and bishops. Our curious eyes would fain have pried within; but it was closed with
the impression of the archbishop's signet.--A crypt, the original burial place of St. Taurinus,
is still shewn in the church, and it continues to be the object of great veneration. It is
immediately in front of the high altar, and is entered by two staircases, one at the head,
the other at the foot of the coffin. The vault is very small, only admitting of the coffin
and of a narrow passage by its side. The sarcophagus, which is extremely shallow, and neither
wide nor long, is partly imbedded in the wall, so that the head and foot and one side alone
are visible.--A portion of the monastic buildings of St. Taurinus now serves as a seminary
for the catholic priesthood.

The west front of the church of St. Giles is not devoid of interest. Many other churches here
have been desecrated; and this ancient building has been converted into a stable. The door-way
is formed by a fine semi-circular arch, ornamented with the chevron-moulding, disposed in a
triple row, and with a line of quatrefoils along the archivolt. Both these decorations are
singular: I recollect no other instance of the quatrefoil being employed in an early Norman
building, though immediately upon the adoption of the pointed style it became exceedingly common;
nor can I point out another example of the chevron-moulding thus disposed. It produces a better
effect than when arranged in detached bands. The capitals to the pillars of the arch are sculptured
with winged dragons and other animals, in bold relief.

These are the only worthy objects of architectural inquiry now existing in the city. Many must
have been destroyed by the ravages of war, and by the excesses of the revolution.--Evreux therefore
does not abound with memorials of its antiquity. But its existence as a town, during the period
of the domination of the Romans, rests upon authority that is scarcely questionable. It has
been doubted whether the present city, or a village about three miles distant, known by the
name of Old Evreux, is the Mediolanum Aulercorum of Ptolemy. His description is given with
sufficient accuracy to exclude the pretensions of any other town, though not with such a degree
of precision as will enable us, after a lapse of sixteen centuries, to decide between the claims
of the two sites. Cæsar, in his Commentaries, speaks in general terms of the Aulerci Eburovices,
who are admitted to have been the ancient inhabitants of this district, and whose name, especially
as modified to Ebroici and Ebroi, is clearly to be recognized in that of the county. The foundations
of ancient buildings are still to be seen at Old Evreux; and various coins and medals of the
upper empire, have at different times been dug up within its precincts. Hence it has been concluded,
that the Mediolanum Aulercorum was situated there. The supporters of the contrary opinion admit
that Old Evreux was a Roman station; but they say that, considering its size, it can have been
no more than an encampment: they also maintain, that a castle was subsequently built upon the
site of this encampment, by Richard, Count of Evreux, and that the destruction of this castle,
during the Norman wars, gave rise to the ruins now visible, which in their turn were the cause
of the name of the village[44].

It is certain that, in the reign of William the Conqueror, the town stood in its present situation:
Ordericus Vitalis speaks in terms that admit of no hesitation, when he states that, in the
year 1080, "fides Christi Evanticorum, id est Evroas, urbem, super Ittonum fluvium sitam possidebat
et salubritèr illuminabat[45]."

In the times of Norman sovereignty, Evreux attained an unfortunate independence: Duke Richard
Ist severed it from the duchy, and erected it into a distinct earldom in favor of Robert, his
second son. From him the inheritance descended to Richard and William, his son and grandson;
after whose death, it fell into the female line, and passed into the house of Montfort d'Amaury,
by the marriage of Agnes, sister of Richard of Evreux.--Nominally independent, but really held
only at the pleasure of the Dukes of Normandy, the rank of the earldom occasioned the misery
of the inhabitants, who were continually involved in warfare, and plundered by conflicting
parties. The annals of Evreux contain the relation of a series of events, full of interest
and amusement to us who peruse them; but those, who lived at the time when these events were
really acted, might exclaim, like the frogs in the fable, "that what is entertainment to us,
was death to them."--At length, the treaty of Louviers, in 1195, altered the aspect of affairs.
The King of France gained the right of placing a garrison in Evreux; and, five years afterwards,
he obtained a formal cession of the earldom. Philip Augustus took possession of the city, to
the great joy of the inhabitants, who, six years before, had seen their town pillaged, and
their houses destroyed, by the orders of this monarch. The severity exercised upon that occasion
had been excessive; but Philip's indignation had been roused by one of the basest acts of treachery
recorded in history.--John, faithless at every period of his life, had entered into a treaty
with the French monarch, during the captivity of his brother, Coeur-de-Lion, to deliver up
Normandy; and Philip, conformably with this plan, was engaged in reducing the strong holds
upon the frontiers, whilst his colleague resided at Evreux. The unexpected release of the English
king disconcerted these intrigues; and John, alarmed at the course which he had been pursuing,
thought only how to avert the anger of his offended sovereign. Under pretence, therefore, of
shewing hospitality to the French, he invited the principal officers to a feast, where he caused
them all to be murdered; and he afterwards put the rest of the garrison to the sword.--Brito
records the transaction in the following lines, which I quote, not only as an historical document,
illustrative of the moral character of one of the worst sovereigns that ever swayed the British
sceptre, but as an honorable testimony to the memory of his unfortunate brother:--

   "Attamen Ebroïcam studio majore reformans
    Armis et rebus et bellatoribus urbem,
    Pluribus instructam donavit amore Johanni,
    Ut sibi servet eam: tamen arcem non dedit illi.
    Ille dolo plenus, qui patrem, qui modo fratrem
    Prodiderat, ne non et Regis proditor esset,
    Excedens siculos animi impietate Tyrannos,
    Francigenas omnes vocat ad convivia quotquot
    Ebroïcis reperit, equites simul atque clientes,
    Paucis exceptis quos sors servavit in arce.
    Quos cum dispositis armis fecisset ut una
    Discubuisse domo, tanquam prandere putantes,
    Evocat e latebris armatos protinus Anglos,
    Interimitque viros sub eadem clade trecentos,
    Et palis capita ambustis affixit, et urbem
    Circuit affixis, visu mirabile, tali
    Regem portento quærens magis angere luctu:
    Talibus obsequiis, tali mercede rependens
    Millia marcharum, quas Rex donaverat illi.
      Tam detestanda pollutus cæde Johannes
    Ad fratrem properat; sed Rex tam flagitiosus
    Non placuit fratri: quis enim, nisi dæmone plenus,
    Omninoque Deo vacuus, virtute redemptus
    A vitiis nulla, tam dira fraude placere
    Appetat, aut tanto venetur crimine pacem?
    Sed quia frater erat, licet illius oderit actus
    Omnibus odibiles, fraternæ foedera pacis
    Non negat indigno, nec eum privavit amore,
    Ipsum qui nuper Regno privare volebat."

The vicissitudes to which the county of Evreux was doomed to be subject, did not wholly cease
upon its annexation to the crown of France. It passed, in the fourteenth century, into the
hands of the Kings of Navarre, so as to form a portion of their foreign territory; and early
in the fifteenth, it fell by right of conquest under English sovereignty.--Philip the Bold
conferred it, in 1276, upon Louis, his youngest son; and from him descended the line of Counts
of Evreux, who, originating in the royal family of France, became Kings of Navarre. The kingdom
was brought into the family by the marriage of Philip Count of Evreux with Jane daughter of
Louis Hutin, King of France and Navarre, to whom she succeeded as heir general. Charles IIIrd,
of Navarre, ceded Evreux by treaty to his namesake, Charles VIth of France, in 1404; and he
shortly after bestowed it upon John Stuart, Lord of Aubigni, and Constable of Scotland.--Under
Henry Vth, our countrymen took the city in 1417, but we were not long allowed to hold undisturbed
possession of it; for, in 1424, it was recaptured by the French. Their success, however, was
only ephemeral: the battle of Verneuil replaced Evreux in the power of the English before the
expiration of the same year; and we kept it till 1441, when the garrison was surprised, and
the town lost, though not without a vigorous resistance.--Towards the close of the following
century, the earldom was raised into a Duché pairie, by Charles IXth, who, having taken the
lordship of Gisors from his brother, the Duc d'Alençon, better known by his subsequent title
of Duc d'Anjou, recompenced him by a grant of Evreux. Upon the death of this prince without
issue, in 1584, Evreux reverted to the crown, and the title lay dormant till 1652, when Louis
XIVth exchanged the earldom with the Duc de Bouillon, in return for the principality of Sedan.
In his family it remained till the revolution, which, amalgamating the whole of France into
one common mass of equal rights and laws, put an end to all local privileges and other feudal
tenures.

Evreux, at present, is a town containing about eight thousand inhabitants, a great proportion
of whom are persons of independent property, or rentiers, as the French call them. Hence it
has an air of elegance, seldom to be found in a commercial, and never in a manufacturing town;
and to us this appearance was the more striking, as being the first instance of the kind we
had seen in Normandy. The streets are broad and beautifully neat. The city stands in the midst
of gardens and orchards, in a fertile valley, watered by the Iton, and inclosed towards the
north and south by ranges of hills. The river divides into two branches before it reaches the
town, both which flow on the outside of the walls. But, besides these, a portion of its waters
has been conducted through the centre of the city, by means of a canal dug by the order of
Jane of Navarre. This Iton, like the Mole, in Kent, suddenly loses itself in the ground, near
the little town of Damville, about twenty miles south of Evreux, and holds its subterranean
course for nearly two miles. A similar phenomenon is observable with a neighboring stream,
the Risle, between Ferrière and Grammont[46]: in both cases it is attributed, I know not with
what justice, to an abrupt change in the stratification of the soil.

       *       *       *       *       *

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 36: This curious transaction, which took place in the year 1119, is related with
considerable näiveté by Ordericus Vitalis, p. 852, as follows:--"Henricus Rex rebellibus ultrà
parcere nolens, pagum Ebroicensem adiit, et Ebroas cum valida manu impugnare coepit. Sed oppidanis,
qui intrinsecus erant, cum civibus viriliter repugnantibus, introire nequivit. Erant cum illo
Ricardus filius ejus, et Stephanus Comes nepos ejus, Radulfus de Guader, et maxima vis Normannorum.
Quibus ante Regem convocatis in unnm, Rex dixit ad Audinum Episcopum. "Videsne, domine Præsul,
quòd repellimur ab hostibus, nec eos nisi per ignem subjugare poterimus? Verùm, si ignis immittitur,
Ecclesiæ comburentur, et insontibus ingens damnum inferetur. Nunc ergo, Pastor Ecclesiæ, diligentèr
considera, et quod utilius prospexeris providè nobis insinua. Si victoria nobis per incendium
divinitùs conceditur, opitulante Deo, Ecclesiæ detrimenta restaurabuntur: quia de thesauris
nostris commodos sumptus gratantèr largiemur. Unde domus Dei, ut reor, in melius reædificabuntur."
Hæsitat in tanto discrimine Præsul auxius, ignorat quid jubeat divinæ dispositioni competentius:
nescit quid debeat magis velle vel eligere salubrius. Tandem prudentum consultu præcepit ignem
immitti, et civitatem concremari, ut ab anathematizatis proditoribus liberaretur, et legitimis
habitatoribus restitueretur. Radulfus igitur de Guader a parte Aquilonali primus ignem injecit,
et effrenis flamma per urbem statim volavit, et omnia (tempos enim autumni siccum erat) corripuit.
Tunc combusta est basilica sancti Salvatoris, quam Sanctimoniales incolebant, et celebris aula
gloriosæ virginis et matris Mariæ, cui Præsul et Clerus serviebant, ubi Pontificalem Curiam
parochiani frequentabant. Rex, et cuncti Optimales sui Episcopo pro Ecclesiarum combustione
vadimonium supplicitèr dederunt, et uberes impensas de opibus suis ad restaurationem earum
palam spoponderunt."]

[Footnote 37: Duchesne, Scriptores Normanni, p. 309.]

[Footnote 38: Gallia Christiana, XI. p. 606.]

[Footnote 39: From the manner in, which Ducarel speaks of these statues, (Anglo-Norman Antiquities,
p. 85.) he leaves it to be understood, that they were in existence in his time; but it is far
from certain that this was the case; for the whole of his account of them is no more than a
translation from the following passage in Le Brasseur's Histoire du Comté d'Evreux, p. 11.--"Le
Diocèse d'Evreux a été si favorisé des grâces de Dieu, qu'on ne voit presqu'aucun temps où
l'Hérésie y ait pénétré, même lorsque les Protestans inondoient et corrompoient toute la France,
et particulierement la Normandie. On ne peut pas cependant desavoüer qu'il y a eu de temps
en temps, quelques personnes qui se sont livrées à l'erreur; et l'on peut remarquer quatre
Statuës attachées à deux piliers au dehors du chancel de l'Eglise Cathédrale du côté du Cimetiere,
dont trois représentent trois Chanoines, la tête couverte de leurs Aumuces selon la coûtume
de ce temps-là, et une quatrième qui représente un Chanoine à un pilier plus éloigné, la tête
nuë, tenant sa main sur le coeur comme un signe de son repentir; parce que la tradition dit,
qu'aïant été atteint et convaincu du crime d'hérésie, le Chapitre l'avoit interdit des fonctions
de son Bénéfice; mais qu'aïant ensuite abjuré son erreur, le même Chapitre le rétablit dans
tous ses droits, honneurs, et privileges: cependant il fut ordonné qu'en mémoire de l'égarement
et de la pénitence de ce Chanoine, ces Statuës demeureroient attachées aux piliers de leur
Eglise, lorsqu'elle fût rébâtie des deniers de Henry I. Roy d'Angleterre, par les soins d'Audoenus
Evêque d'Evreux."]

[Footnote 40: This was not the first, nor the only, contest, which was fought by Taurinus with
Satan. Their struggles began at the moment of the saint's coming to Evreux, and did not even
terminate when his life was ended. But the devil was, by the power of his adversary, brought
to such a helpless state, that, though he continued to haunt the city, where the people knew
him by the name of Gobelinus, he was unable to injure any one.--All this is seriously related
by Ordericus Vitalis, (p. 555.) from whom I extract the following passage, in illustration
of what Evreux was supposed to owe to its first bishop.--"Grassante secundâ persecutione, quæ
sub Domitiano in Christianos furuit, Dionysius Parisiensis Episcopus Taurinum filiolum suum
jam quadragenarium, Præsulem ordinavit; et (vaticinatis pluribus quæ passurus erat) Ebroicensibus
in nomine Domini direxit. Viro Dei ad portas civitatis appropinquanti, dæmon in tribus figmentis
se opposuit: scilicet in specie ursi, et leonis, et bubali terrere athletam Christi voluit.
Sed ille fortiter, ut inexpugnabilis murus, in fide perstitit, et coeptum iter peregit, hospitiumque
in domo Lucii suscepit. Tertia die, dum Taurinus ibidem populo prædicaret, et dulcedo fidei
novis auditoribus multùm placeret, dolens diabolus Eufrasiam Lucii filiam vexare coepit, et
in ignem jecit. Quæ statim mortua est; sed paulò pòst, orante Taurino ac jubente ut resurgeret,
in nomine Domini resuscitata est. Nullum in ea adustionis signum apparuit. Omnes igitur hoc
miraculum videntes subitò territi sunt, et obstupescentes in Dominum Jesum Christum crediderunt.
In illa die cxx. homines baptizati sunt.

(Bourg-Achard, July, 1818.)

Evreux is seldom visited by the English; and none of our numerous absentees have thought fit
to settle here, though the other parts of Normandy are filled with families who are suffering
under the sentence of self-banishment. It is rather surprising, that this town has not obtained
its share of English settlers: the air is good, provisions are cheap, and society is agreeable.
Those, too, if such there be, who are attracted by historical reminiscences, will find themselves
on historical ground.

The premier viscount of the British parliament derives his name from Evreux; though, owing
to a slight alteration in spelling and to our peculiar pronunciation, it has now become so
completely anglicised, that few persons, without reflection, would recognize a descendant of
the Comtes d'Evreux, in Henry Devereux, Viscount of Hereford. The Norman origin of this family
is admitted by the genealogists and heralds, both of France and of England; and the fate of
the Earl of Essex is invariably introduced in the works of those authors, who have written
upon Evreux or its honors.

It would have been unpardonable to have quitted Evreux, without rambling to the Château de
Navarre, which is not more than a mile and half distant from the town.--This Château, whose
name recals an interesting period in the history of the earldom, was originally a royal residence.
It was erected in the middle of the fourteenth century by Jane of France, who, with a very
pardonable vanity, directed her new palace to be called Navarre, that her Norman subjects might
never forget that she was herself a queen, and that she had brought a kingdom as a marriage
portion to her husband. Her son, Charles the Bad, a prince whose turbulent and evil disposition
caused so much misfortune to France, was born here. Happy too had it been for him, had he here
closed his eyes before he entered upon the wider theatre of the world! During his early days
passed at Navarre, he is said to have shewn an ingenuousness of disposition and some traits
of generosity, which gave rise to hopes that were miserably falsified by his future life.--The
present edifice, however, a modern French Château, retains nothing more than the name of the
structure which was built by the queen, and which was levelled with the ground, in the year
1686, by the Duc de Bouillon, the lord of the country, who erected the present mansion. His
descendants resided here till the revolution, at which time they emigrated, and the estate
became national property. It remained for a considerable period unoccupied, and was at last
granted to Joséphine, by her imperial husband. At present, the domain belongs to her son, Prince
Eugene, by whom the house has lately been stripped of its furniture. Many of the fine trees
in the park have also been cut down, and the whole appears neglected and desolate. His mother
did not like Navarre: he himself never saw it: the queen of Holland alone used occasionally
to reside here.--The principal beauty of the place lies in its woods; and these we saw to the
greatest advantage. It was impossible for earth or sky to look more lovely.--The house is of
stone, with large windows; and an ill-shaped dome rises in the centre. The height of the building
is somewhat greater than its width, which makes it appear top-heavy; and every thing about
it is formal; but the noble avenue, the terrace-steps, great lanthorns, iron gates, and sheets
of water on either side of the approach, are upon an extensive scale, and in a fine baronial
style.--Yet, still they are inferior to the accompaniments of the same nature which are found
about many noblemen's residences in England.--The hall, which is spacious, has a striking effect,
being open to the dome. Its sides are painted with military trophies, and with the warlike
instruments of the four quarters of the globe. We saw nothing else in the house worthy of notice.
It is merely a collection of apartments of moderate size; and, empty and dirty as they were,
they appeared to great disadvantage. In the midst of the solitude of desolation, some ordinary
portraits of the Bouillon family still remain upon the walls, as if in mockery of departed
greatness.

We were unable to direct our course to Cocherel, a village about sixteen miles distant, on
the road to Vernon, celebrated as the spot where a battle was fought, in the fourteenth century,
between the troops of Navarre, and those of France, commanded by Du Guesclin.--I notice this
place, because it is possible that, if excavations were made there, those antiquaries who delight
in relics of the remotest age of European history, might win many prizes. A tomb of great curiosity
was discovered in the year 1685; and celts, and stone hatchets, and other implements, belonging,
as it is presumed, to the original inhabitants of the country, have been found beneath the
soil. Many of these are described and figured by the Abbé de Cocherel, in a paper full of curious
erudition, subjoined to Le Brasseur's History of Evreux. The hatchets resembled those frequently
dug up in England; but they were more perfect, inasmuch as some of them were fastened in deers'
horns, and had handles attached to them; thus clearly indicating the manner in which they were
used.--The place of burial differed, I believe, in its internal arrangement from any sepulchral
monument, whether Cromlech, Carnedd, or Barrow, that has been opened in our own country. Three
sides of it were rudely faced with large stones: within were contained about twenty skeletons,
lying in a row, close to each other, north and south, their arms pressed to their sides. The
head of each individual rested on a stone, fashioned with care, but to no certain pattern.
Some were fusiform, others wedge-shaped, and others irregularly oblong. In general, the stones
did not appear to be the production of the country. One was oriental jade, another German agate.
In the tomb were also a few cinerary urns; whence it appears that the people, by whom it was
constructed, were of a nation that was at once in the habit of burning, and of interring, their
dead. From these facts, the Abbé finds room for much ingenious conjecture; and, after discussing
the relative probabilities of the sepulchre having been a burying-place of the Gauls, the Jews,
the Druids, the Normans, or the Huns, he decides, though with some hesitation, in favor of
the last of these opinions.

From Evreux we went by Brionne to Pont-Audemer: at first the road is directed through an open
country, without beauty or interest; but the prospect improved upon us when we joined the rapid
sparkling Risle, which waters a valley of great richness, bounded on either side by wooded
hills.--Of Brionne itself I shall soon have a better opportunity of speaking; as we purpose
stopping there on our way to Caen.

A few miles before Brionne, we passed Harcourt, the ancient barony of the noble family still
flourishing in England, and existing in France. It is a small country town, remarkable only
for some remains of a castle[47], built by Robert de Harcourt, fifth in descent from Bernard
the Dane, chief counsellor, and second in command to Rollo. The blood of the Dane is in the
present earl of Harcourt: he traces his lineage in a direct line from Robert, the builder of
the castle, who accompanied the Conqueror into England, and fell in battle by his side.

Pont-Audemer is a small, neat, country town, situated upon the Risle, which here, within ten
miles of its junction with the Seine, is enlarged into a river of considerable magnitude. But
its channel, in the immediate vicinity of the town, divides into several small streams; and
thus it loses much of its dignity, though the change is highly advantageous to picturesque
beauty, and to the conveniences of trade. Mills stand on some of these streams, but most of
them are applied to the purposes of tanning; for leather is the staple manufacture of the place,
and the hides prepared at Pont-Audemer are thought to be the best in France.

From Brionne the valley of the Risle preserves a width of about a mile, or a mile and half:
at Pont-Audemer it becomes somewhat narrower, and the town stretches immediately across it,
instead of being built along the banks of the river.--The inhabitants are thus enabled to avail
themselves of the different streams which intersect it.

Tradition refers the origin, as well as the name of Pont-Audemer, to a chief, called Aldemar
or Odomar, who ruled over a portion of Gaul in the fifth century, and who built a bridge here.--These
legendary heroes abound in topography, but it is scarcely worth while to discuss their existence.
In Norman times Pont-Audemer was a military station. The nobility of the province, always turbulent,
but never more so than during the reign of Henry Ist, had availed themselves of the opportunity
afforded by the absence of the monarch, and by his domestic misfortunes, to take up arms in
the cause of the son of Robert. Henry landed at the mouth of the Seine, and it was at Pont-Audemer
that the first conflict took place between him and his rebellious subjects. The latter were
defeated, and the fortress immediately surrendered; but, in the early part of the fourteenth
century, it appears to have been of greater strength: it had been ceded by King John of France
to the Count of Evreux, and it resisted all the efforts of its former lord during a siege of
six weeks, at the end of which time his generals were obliged to retire, with the loss of their
military engines and artillery. This siege is memorable in history, as the first in which it
is known that cannon were employed in France.--Pont-Audemer, still in possession of the kings
of Navarre, withstood a second siege, towards the conclusion of the same century, but with
less good fortune than before. It was taken by the constable Du Guesclin, and, according to
Froissart[48], "the castle was razed to the ground, though it had cost large sums to erect;
and the walls and towers of the town were destroyed."

St. Ouen, the principal church in the place, is a poor edifice. It bears, however, some tokens
of remote age: such are the circular arches in the choir, and a curious capital, on which are
represented two figures in combat, of rude sculpture.--A second church, that of Notre Dame
des Prés, now turned into a tan-house, exhibits an architectural feature which is altogether
novel. Over the great entrance, it has a string-course, apparently intended to represent a
corbel-table, though it does not support any superior member; and the intermediate spaces between
the corbels, instead of being left blank, as usual, are filled with sculptured stones, which
project considerably, though less than the corbels with which they alternate. There is something
of the same kind, but by no means equally remarkable, over the arcades above the west door-way
of Castle-Acre Priory[49]. Neither Mr. Cotman's memory, nor my own, will furnish another example.--The
church of Notre Dame des Prés is of the period when the pointed style was beginning to be employed.
The exterior is considerably injured: to the interior we could not obtain admission.

The suburbs of Pont-Audemer furnish another church dedicated to St. Germain, which would have
been an excellent subject for both pen and pencil, had it undergone less alteration. The short,
thick, square, central tower has, on each side, a row of four windows, of nearly the earliest
pointed style; many of the windows of the body of the church have semi-circular heads; the
corbels which extend in a line round the nave and transepts are strangely grotesque; and, on
the north side of the eastern extremity, is a semi-circular chapel, as at St. Georges.--The
inside is dark and gloomy, the floor unpaved, and every thing in and about it in a state of
utter neglect, except some dozen saints, all in the gayest attire, and covered with artificial
flowers. The capitals of the columns are in the true Norman style. Those at St. Georges are
scarcely more fantastic, or more monstrous.--Between two of the arches of the choir, on the
south side of this church, is the effigy of a man in his robes, coifed with a close cap, lying
on an altar-tomb. The figure is much mutilated; but the style of the canopy-work over the head
indicates that it is not of great antiquity. The feet of the statue rest upon a dog, who is
busily occupied in gnawing a marrow-bone.--Dogs at the base of monumental effigies are common,
and they have been considered as symbols of fidelity and honor; but surely the same is not
intended to be typified by a dog thus employed; and it is not likely that his being so is a
mere caprice of the sculptor's.--There is no inscription upon the monument; nor could we learn
whom it is intended to commemorate.

At but a short distance from Pont-Audemer, higher up the Risle, lies the yet smaller town of
Montfort, near which are still to be traced, the ruins of a castle,[50] memorable for the thirty
days' siege, which it supported from the army of Henry Ist, in 1122; and dismantled by Charles
Vth, at the same time that he razed the fortifications of Pont-Audemer. The Baron of Montfort
yet ranks in our peerage; though I am not aware that the nobleman, who at present bears the
title, boasts a descent from any part of the family of Hugh with a beard, the owner of Montfort
at the time of the conquest, and one of the Conqueror's attendants at the battle of Hastings.

From Pont-Audemer we proceeded to Honfleur: it was market-day at the place which we had quitted,
and the throng of persons who passed us on the road, gave great life and variety to the scene.
There was scarcely an individual from whom we did not receive a friendly smile or nod, accompanied
by a bon jour; for the practice obtains commonly in France, among the peasants, of saluting
those whom they consider their superiors. Almost all that were going to market, whether male
or female, were mounted on horses or asses; and their fruit, vegetables, butchers' meat, live
fowls, and live sheep, were indiscriminately carried in the same way.

About a league before we arrived at Honfleur, a distant view of the eastern banks of the river
opened upon us from the summit of a hill, and we felt, or fancied that we felt, "the air freshened
from the wave." As we descended, the ample Seine, here not less than nine miles in width, suddenly
displayed itself, and we had not gone far before we came in sight of Honfleur. The mist occasioned
by the intense heat, prevented us from seeing distinctly the opposite towns of Havre and Harfleur:
we could only just discern the spire of the latter, and the long projecting line of the piers
and fortifications of Havre. The great river rolls majestically into the British Channel between
these two points, and forms the bay of Honfleur. About four miles higher up the stream where
it narrows, the promontories of Quilleboeuf and of Tancarville close the prospect.--Honfleur
itself is finely situated: valleys, full of meadows of the liveliest green, open to the Seine
in the immediate vicinity of the town; and the hills with which it is backed are beautifully
clothed with foliage to the very edge of the water. The trees, far from being stunted and leafless,
as on the eastern coast of England, appear as if they were indebted to their situation for
a verdure of unusual luxuriancy. A similar line of hills borders the Seine on either side,
as far as the eye can reach.

It was unfortunate for us, that we entered the town at low water, when the empty harbor and
slimy river could scarcely fail to prepossess us unfavorably. The quays are faced with stone,
and the two basins are fine works, and well adapted for commerce. This part of Honfleur reminded
us of Dieppe; but the houses, though equally varied in form and materials, are not equally
handsome.--Still less so are the churches; and a picturesque castle is wholly wanting.--In
the principal object of my journey to Honfleur, my expectations were completely frustrated.
I had been told at Rouen, that I should here find a very ancient wooden church, and our imagination
had pictured to us one equally remarkable as that of Greensted, in Essex, and probably constructed
in the same manner, of massy trunks of trees. With the usual anticipation of an antiquary,
I imagined that I should discover a parallel to that most singular building; which, as every
body knows, is one of the greatest architectural curiosities in England. But, alas! I was sadly
disappointed. The wooden church of Honfleur, so old in the report of my informant, is merely
a thing of yesterday, certainly not above two hundred and fifty years of age; and, though it
is undeniably of wood, within and without, the walls are made, as in most of the houses in
the town, of a timber frame filled with clay. There is another church in Honfleur, but it was
equally without interest. Thus baffled, we walked to the heights above the town: at the top
of the cliff was a crowd of people, some of them engaged in devotion near a large wooden crucifix,
others enjoying themselves at different games, or sitting upon the neat stone benches, which
are scattered plentifully about the walks in this charming situation. The neighboring little
chapel of Notre Dame de Grace is regarded as a building of great sanctity, and is especially
resorted to by sailors, a class of people who are superstitious, all the world over. It abounds
with their votive tablets. From the roof and walls

   "Pendono intorno in lungo ordine i voti,
    Che vi portaro i creduli divoti."

Among the pictures, we counted nineteen, commemorative of escape from shipwreck, all of them
painted after precisely the same pattern: a stormy sea, a vessel in distress, and the Virgin
holding the infant Savior in her arms, appearing through a black cloud in the corner,--In the
Catholic ritual, the holy Virgin, is termed Maris Stella, and she is ÎºÎ±Ï„' ÎµÎ¾Î¿Ï‡Î·Î½ [English.
Not in Original: pre-eminently, especially, above all] the protectress of Normandy.

Honfleur is still a fortified town; but it does not appear a place of much strength, nor is
it important in any point of view. Its trade is inconsiderable, and its population does not
amount to nine thousand inhabitants. But in the year 1450, while in the hands of our countrymen,
it sustained a siege of a month's duration from the king of France; and, in the following century,
it had the distinction, attended with but little honor, of being the last place in the kingdom
that held out for the league.

From Honfleur we would fain have returned by Sanson-sur-Risle and Foullebec, at both which
villages M. Le Prevost had led us to expect curious churches; but our postillion assured us
that the roads were wholly impassable. We were therefore compelled to allow Mr. Cotman to visit
them alone, while we retraced a portion of our steps through the valley of the Risle, and then
took an eastern direction to Bourg-Achard in our way to Rouen.

Bourg-Achard was the seat of an abbey, built by the monks of Falaise, in 1143: it was originally
dedicated to St. Lô; but St. Eustatius, the favorite saint of this part of the country, afterwards
became its patron. Before the revolution, his skull was preserved in the sacristy of the convent,
enchased in a bust of silver gilt[51]; and even now, when the relic has been consigned to its
kindred dust, and the shrine to the furnace, and the abbey has been levelled with the ground,
there remains in the parochial church a fragment of sculpture, which evidently represented
the miracle that led to Eustatius' conversion.--The knight, indeed, is gone, and the cross
has disappeared from between the horns of the stag; but the horse and the deer, are left, and
their position indicates the legend.--The church of Bourg-Achard has been materially injured.
The whole of the building, from the transept westward, has been taken down; but it deserves
a visit, if only as retaining a bénitier of ancient form and workmanship, and a leaden font.
Of the latter, I send you a drawing. Leaden fonts are of very rare occurrence in England[52],
and I never saw or heard of another such in France: indeed, a baptismal font of any kind is
seldom to be seen in a French church, and the vessels used for containing the holy water, are
in most cases nothing more than small basins in the form of escalop shells, affixed to the
wall, or to some pillar near the entrance.--It is possible that the fonts were removed and
sold during the revolution, as they were in our own country, by the ordinance of the houses
of parliament, after the deposition of Charles Ist; but this is a mere conjecture on my own
part. It is also possible that they may be kept in the sacristy, where I have certainly seen
them in some cases. In earlier times, they not only existed in every church, but were looked
upon with superstitious reverence. They are frequently mentioned in the decrees of ecclesiastical
councils; some of which provide for keeping them clean and locked; others for consigning the
keys of them to proper officers; others direct that they should never be without water; and
others that nothing profane should be laid upon them[53].

As we were at breakfast this morning, a procession, attended by a great throng, passed our
windows, and we were invited by our landlady to go to the church and see the wedding of two
of the principal persons of the parish, We accepted the proposal; and, though the same ceremony
has been witnessed by thousands of Englishmen, yet I doubt whether it has been described by
any one.--The bride was a girl of very interesting appearance, dressed wholly in white: even
her shoes were white, and a bouquet of white roses, jessamine, and orange-flowers, was placed
in her bosom.--The mayor of the town conducted her to the altar. Previously to the commencement
of the service, the priest stated aloud that the forms required by law, for what is termed
the civil marriage, had been completed. It was highly necessary that he should do so; for,
according to the present code, a minister of any persuasion, who proceeds to the religious
ceremonies of marriage before the parties have been married by the magistrate, is subject to
very heavy penalties, to imprisonment, and to transportation. Indeed, going to church at all
for the purpose of marriage, is quite a work of supererogation, and may be omitted or not,
just as the parties please; the law requiring no other proof of a marriage, beyond the certificate
recorded in the municipal registry. After this most important preliminary, the priest exhorted
every one present, under pain of excommunication, to declare if they knew of any impediment:
this, however, was merely done for the purpose of keeping up the dignity of the church, for
the knot was already tied as fast as it ever could be. He then read a discourse upon the sanctity
of the marriage compact, and the excellence of the wedded state among the Catholics, compared
to what prevailed formerly among the Jews and Heathens, who degraded it by frequent divorces
and licentiousness. The parties now declared their mutual consent, and his reverence enjoined
each to be to the other "comme un époux fidèle et de lui tenir fidélité en toutes choses."--The
ring was presented to the minister by one of the acolytes, upon a gold plate; and, before he
directed the bridegroom to place it upon the finger of the lady, he desired him to observe
that it was a symbol of marriage.--During the whole of the service two other acolytes were
stationed in front of the bride and bridegroom, each holding in his hands a lighted taper;
and near the conclusion, while they knelt before the altar, a pall of flowered brocade was
stretched behind them, as emblematic of their union. Holy water was not forgotten; for, in
almost every rite of the Catholic church, the mystic sanctification by water and by fire continually
occurs.--The ceremony ended by the priest's receiving the sacrament himself, but without administering
it to any other individual present. Having taken it, he kissed the paten which had contained
the holy elements, and all the party did the same: each, too, in succession, put a piece of
money into a cup, to which we also were invited to contribute, for the love of the Holy Virgin.--They
entered by the south door, but the great western portal was thrown open as they left the church;
and by that they departed. 249.]

[Footnote 51: Histoire de la Haute Normandie, II. p. 319.]

[Footnote 52: Mr. Gough, (See Archæologia, X. p. 187.) whose attention had been much directed
to this subject, seems to have known only four fonts made of lead, in the kingdom;--at Brookland
in Kent, Dorchester in Oxfordshire, Wareham in Dorsetshire, and Walmsford in Northamptonshire;
but there are in all probability many more. We have at least four in Norfolk. He says, "they
are supposed to be of high antiquity; and that at Brookland may have relation to the time of
Birinus himself.

(Brionne, July, 1818.)

Having accomplished the objects which we had proposed to ourselves in Rouen and its vicinity,
we set out this morning upon our excursion to the western parts of the province. Our first
stage, to Moulineaux, was by the same road by which we returned a few days ago from Bourg-Achard.
It is a delightful ride, through the valley of the Seine, here of great width, stretching to
our left in an uninterrupted course of flat open country, but, on our right hand, bordered
at no great distance by the ridge of steep chalky cliffs which line the bank of the river.
The road appears to have been a work of considerable labor: it is every where raised, and in
some places as high as fifteen feet above the level of the fields on either side.--Agriculture
in this district is conducted, as about Paris, upon the plan called by the French la petite
culture: the fields are all divided into narrow strips; so that a piece of not more than two
or three acres, frequently produces eight or ten different crops, some of grain, others of
culinary vegetables, at the same time that many of these portions are planted with apple and
cherry trees. The land is all open and uninclosed: not a fence is to be seen; nor do there
even appear to be any balks or head-marks. Strangers therefore who come, like us, from a country
entirely inclosed, cannot refrain from frequent expressions of surprise how it is that every
person here is enabled to tell the limits of his own property.

Moulineaux is a poor village, a mere assemblage of cottages, with mud walls and thatched roofs.
But the church is interesting, though desecrated and verging to ruin. Even now the outside
alone is entire. The interior is gutted and in a state of absolute neglect.--The building is
of the earliest pointed style: its lancet-windows are of the plainest kind, being destitute
of side pillars: in some of the windows are still remains of handsome painted glass.--Either
the antiquaries in France are more honest than in England, or they want taste, or objects of
this kind do not find a ready market. We know too well how many an English church, albeit well
guarded by the churchwardens and the parson, has seen its windows despoiled of every shield,
and saint, and motto; and we also know full well, by whom, and for whom, such ravages are committed.
In France, on the contrary, where painted glass still fills the windows of sacred buildings,
now employed for the meanest purposes, or wholly deserted, no one will even take the trouble
of carrying it away; and the storied panes are left, as derelicts utterly without value.--The
east end of the church at Moulineaux is semi-circular; the roof is of stone, handsomely groined,
and the groinings spring from fanciful corbels. On either side of the nave, near the choir,
is a recess in the wall, carved with tabernacle-work, and serving for a piscina. Recesses of
this kind, though of frequent occurrence in English churches, do not often appear in France.
Still less common are those elaborate screens of carved timber, often richly gilt or gorgeously
painted, which separate the nave from the chancel in the churches of many of our smaller villages
at home. The only one I ever recollect to have seen in France was at Moulineaux.--I also observed
a mutilated pillar, which originally supported the altar, ornamented with escalop shells and
fleurs-de-lys in bold relief. It reminded me of one figured in the Antiquarian Repertory, from
Harold's chapel, in Battle Abbey[54].

Immediately after leaving Moulineaux, the road winds along the base of a steep chalk hill,
whose brow is crowned by the remains of the famous castle of Robert the Devil, the father of
Richard Fearnought. Robert the Devil is a mighty hero of romance; but there is some difficulty
in discovering his historical prototype. Could we point out his gestes in the chronicle, they
would hardly outvalue his adventures, as they are recorded in the nursery tale. Robert haunts
this castle, which appears to have been of great extent, though its ruins are very indistinct.
The walls on the southern side are rents, and covered with brush-wood; and no architectural
feature is discernible. Wide and deep fosses encircle the site, which is undermined by spacious
crypts and subterraneous caverns.--The fortress is evidently of remote, but uncertain, antiquity:
it was dismantled by King John when he abandoned the duchy. The historians of Normandy say
that it was re-fortified during the civil wars; and the fact is not destitute of probability,
as its position is bold and commanding.

Bourg-Theroude, our next stage, is one of those places which are indebted to their names alone
for the little importance they possess. At present, it is a small assemblage of mean houses,
most of them inns; but its Latin appellation, Burgus Thuroldi, commemorates no less a personage
than one of the preceptors of William the Conqueror, and his grand constable at the time when
he effected the conquest of England.--The name of Turold occurs upon the Bayeux tapestry, designating
one of the ambassadors dispatched by the Norman Duke to Guy, Earl of Ponthieu; and it is supposed
that the Turold there represented was the grand constable[55].--The church of Bourg-Theroude,
which was collegiate before the revolution, is at present uninteresting in every point of view.

About half way from this place to Brionne, we came in sight of the remains of the celebrated
abbey of Bec, situated a mile and half or two miles distant to our right, at the extremity
of a beautiful valley. We had been repeatedly assured that scarcely one stone of this formerly
magnificent building was left upon another; but it would have shewn an unpardonable want of
curiosity to have passed so near without visiting it: even to stand upon the spot which such
a monastery originally covered is a privilege not lightly to be foregone:--

   "The pilgrim who journeys all day,
      To visit some far distant shrine;
    If he bear but a relic away,
      Is happy, nor heard to repine."--

And happiness of this kind would on such an occasion infallibly fall to your lot and to mine.
A love for botany or for antiquities would equally furnish relics on a similar pilgrimage.

As usual, the accounts which we had received proved incorrect. The greater part of the conventual
edifice still exists, but it has no kind of architectural value. Some detached portions, whose
original use it would be difficult now to conjecture, appear, from their wide pointed windows,
to be of the fifteenth century. The other buildings were probably erected within the last fifty
years.--The part inhabited by the monks is at this time principally employed as a cotton-mill;
and, were it in England, nobody would suspect that it ever had any other destination. Of the
church, the tower[56] only is in existence. I find no account of its date; though authors have
been unusually profuse in their details of all particulars relating to this monastery. I am
inclined to refer it to the beginning of the seventeenth century, in which case it was built
shortly after the destruction of the nave. Its character is simple, solid elegance. Its ornaments
are few, but they are selected and disposed with judgment. Each corner is flanked by two buttresses,
which unite at top, and there terminate in a crocketed pinnacle. The buttresses are also ornamented
with tabernacles of saints at different heights; and one of the tabernacles upon each buttress,
about mid-way up the tower, still retains a statue as large as life, of apparently good workmanship.
They were fortunately too high for the democrats to destroy with ease. The height of the tower
is one hundred and fifty feet, as I found by the staircase of two hundred steps, which remains
uninjured, in a circular turret attached to the south side. The termination of this turret
is the most singular part of the structure: it is surmounted by a cap, considerably higher
than the pinnacles, and composed, like a bee-hive, of a number of circles, each smaller than
the one below it. A few ruined arches of the east end of the church, and of one of the side
chapels are also existing. The rest is levelled with the ground, and has probably been in a
great measure destroyed lately; for piles of wrought stones are heaped up on all sides.

If historical recollections or architectural beauty could have proved a protection in the days
of revolution, the church of Bec had undoubtedly stood. Ducarel, who saw it in its perfection,
says it was one of the finest gothic structures in France; and his account of it, though only
an abridgement of that given by Du Plessis, in his History of Upper Normandy, is curious and
valuable.--Mr. Gough states the annual income of the abbey at the period of the revolution,
to have exceeded twenty thousand crowns. Its patronage was most extensive: the monks presented
to one hundred and sixty advowsons, two of them in the metropolis; and thirty other ecclesiastical
benefices, as well priories as chapels, were in their gift[57].--Its possessions, as we may
collect from the various charters and donations, might have led us to expect a larger revenue.
The estates belonging to the monastery in England, prior to the reformation, were both numerous
and valuable.

Sammarthanus, author of the Gallia Christiana, says, in speaking of Bec, that, whether considered
as to religion or literature, there was not, in the eleventh century, a more celebrated convent
throughout the whole of Neustria. The founder of the abbey was Hellouin, sometimes called Herluin,
a nobleman, descended by the mother's side from the Counts of Flanders, but he himself was
a native of the territory of Brionne, and educated in the castle of Gislebert, earl of that
district. Hellouin determined, at an early age, to withdraw himself from the court and from
the world: it seems he was displeased or affronted by the conduct of the earl; and we may collect
from the chroniclers, that it was not a very easy task in those times for an individual of
rank, intent upon monastic seclusion, to carry his purpose into effect, and that still greater
difficulties were to be encountered if he wished to put his property into mortmain. Hellouin
was obliged to counterfeit madness, and at last to come to a very painful explanation with
his liege lord; and, when he finally succeeded in obtaining the permission he craved, his establishment
was so poor, that he was compelled to take upon himself the office of abbot, from an inability
to find any other person who would accept it.--The monkish historians lavish their praises
upon Hellouin. They assign to him every virtue under heaven; but they particularly laud him
for his humility and industry: all day long he worked as a laborer in the building of his convent,
whilst the night was passed in committing the psalter to memory. At this period of his life,
a curious anecdote is recorded of him: curious in itself, as illustrative of the character
of the man; and particularly curious, in being quoted as matter of commendation, and thus serving
to illustrate the feelings of a great body of the community.--His mother, who shared in the
pious disposition of her son, had attached herself to the convent to assist in the menial offices;
and one day, while she was thus engaged, the building caught fire, and she perished in the
flames; upon which, Hellouin, though bathed in tears, lifted up his hands to heaven, and gave
thanks to God that his parent had been burned to death in the midst of an occupation of humility
and piety!

During the life of Hellouin, the abbey was twice levelled with the ground: on each occasion
it rose more splendid from its ruins, and on each the site was changed, till at length it was
fixed upon the spot from which its ruins are now vanishing. The whole of Normandy would scarcely
furnish a more desirable situation. Under the prelacy of Hellouin, Bec increased rapidly in
celebrity, and consequently in the number of its inmates: it was principally indebted for this
increase to an accidental circumstance. Lanfranc, a native of Pavia, a lawyer in Italy, but
a monk in France, after having visited various monasteries, and distinguished himself by defending
the doctrine of the real presence, then impugned by Berengarius, established himself here in
the year 1042, and immediately opened a school, which, to judge from the language of Ordericus
Vitalis[58], seems to have been the first ever known in Normandy. Scholars from France, from
England, and from Flanders, hastened to place themselves under his care; his fame, according
to William of Malmesbury, went forth into the outer parts of the earth; and Bec, under his
auspices, became a most celebrated resort of literature. To borrow the more copious account
given by William of Jumieges--"report quickly spread the glory of Bec, and of its abbot, Hellouin,
through every land. The clergy, the sons of dukes, the most eminent schoolmasters, the most
powerful of the laity, and the nobility, all hastened hither. Many, actuated by love for Lanfranc,
gave their lands to the convent. The abbey was enriched with ornaments, with possessions, and
with noble inmates. Religion and learning increased; property of all kinds abounded; and the
monks, who but a few years before, could scarcely command sufficient ground for the site of
their own building, now saw their estates extend for many miles in a lengthening line."--Promotion
followed the fame of Lanfranc, who soon became abbot of the royal monastery of St. Stephen,
at Caen, and thence was translated to the archiepiscopal see of Canterbury.

It was the rare good fortune of Bec, that the abbey furnished two successive metropolitans
to the English church, both of them selected for their erudition, Lanfranc and Anselm. It is
not a little remarkable, too, that both were Italians. Lanfranc, whilst archbishop of Canterbury,
presided in the year 1077, at the dedication of the third church built at Bec. We may judge
how far the abbey had at that time increased in consequence; for five bishops, one of them
brother to the Conqueror, honored the ceremony with their presence; and the nobles and ladies
of France, Normandy, and England crowded to the spot, to refresh their bodies by the pleasures
of the festival, and their souls by endowments to the convent.

In the fifteenth century, when our Henry Vth brought his victorious armies into France, the
monks of Bec were reduced to a painful alternative. It was apprehended by the French monarch,
that the monastery might be converted into a dépôt by the English; and they were commanded
either to demolish the church, or to fortify it against the invaders. They naturally regarded
the latter as the lesser evil; and the consequence was, that the abbey was scarcely put into
a state of defence, when it was attacked by the enemy, and, after sustaining a siege for a
month, was obliged to surrender. A great part of the monastic buildings were levelled to the
ground; and the fortifications which had been so strangely affixed to them were also razed:
meanwhile the monks suffered grievously from the contending parties: their sacristy was plundered;
their treasury emptied; and they were themselves exposed to a variety of personal hardships.
At the same time, also, the tomb of the Empress Maud[59], which faced the high altar, was destroyed,
after having been stripped of its silver ornaments.

Considering the number of illustrious persons who were abbots or patrons of Bec, and who had
been elected from it to the superintendance of other monasteries, the church does not appear
to have been rich in monuments. We read indeed of many individuals who were interred here belonging
to the house of Neubourg, a family distinguished among the benefactors of the convent; and
the records of the abbey speak also of the tomb of Richard of St. Leger, Bishop of Evreux;
but the Empress was the only royal personage who selected this convent as the resting-place
for her remains; and she likewise appears to have been the only eminent one, except Hellouin,
the founder, who lay in the chapter-house, under a slab of black marble, with various figures
of rude workmanship[60] carved upon it. His epitaph has more merit than the general class of
monumental inscriptions:--

   "Hunc spectans tumulum, titulo cognosce sepultum;
      Est via virtutis nôsse quis ipse fuit.
    Dum quater hic denos ævi venisset ad annos,
      Quæ fuerant secli sprevit amore Dei.
    Mutans ergò vices, mundi de milite miles
      Fit Christi subito, Monachus ex laïco.
    Hinc sibi, more patrum, socians collegia fratrum,
      Curâ, quâ decuit, rexit eos, aluit.
    Quot quantasque vides, hic solus condidit ædes,
      Non tàm divitiis quàm fidei meritis.
    Quas puer haud didicit scripturas postea scivit,
      Doctus ut indoctum vix sequeretur eum.
    Flentibus hunc nobis tulit inclementia mortis
      Sextilis quinâ bisque die decimâ.
    Herluine pater, sic cÅ“lica scandis ovantÃ¨r;
      Credere namque tuis hoc licet ex meritis."

In number of inmates, extent of possessions, and possibly, in magnificence of buildings, other
Norman monasteries may have excelled Bec: none equalled it in the prouder honor of being a
seminary for eminent men and especially for those destined to the highest stations in the church.
Lanfranc and Anselm were not the only two of its monks who were seated on the archiepiscopal
throne at Canterbury. Two others, Theobald and Hubert obtained the same dignity in the following
century; and Roger, the seventh abbot of Bec, enjoyed the still more enviable distinction of
having been unanimously elected to fill the office of metropolitan, but of possessing sufficient
firmness of mind to resist the attractions of wealth, and rank, and power. The sees of Rochester,
Beauvais, and Evreux were likewise filled by monks from Bec; and it was here that many monastic
establishments, both Norman and foreign, found their pastors. Three of our own most celebrated
convents, those of Chester, Ely, and St. Edmund's Bury, received at different epochs their
abbots from Bec; and during the prelacy of Anselm, the supreme pontiff himself selected a monk
of this house as the prior of the distant convent of the holy Savior at Capua.--The village
of Bec, which adjoins the abbey, is small and unimportant.

I was returning to our carriage, when a soldier invited me to walk to a part of the monastic
grounds (for they are very extensive) which is appropriated to the purpose of keeping up the
true breed of Norman horses. The French government have several similar establishments: they
consider the matter as one of national importance; and, as France has not yet produced a Duke
of Bedford or a Mr. Coke, the state is obliged to undertake what would be much better effected
by the energy of individuals.--A Norman horse is an excellent draft horse: he is strong, bony,
and well proportioned. But the natives are not content with this qualified praise: they contend
that he is equally unrivalled as a saddle-horse, as a hunter, and as a charger. In this part
of the country the present average price of a hussar's horse is nineteen pounds; of a dragoon's
thirty-four pounds; and of an officer's eighty pounds.--These prices are considered high, but
not extravagant. France abounds at this time in fine horses. The losses occasioned by the revolutionary
wars, and more especially by the disastrous Russian campaign, have been more than compensated
by five years of peace, and by the horses that were left by the allied troops. An annual supply
is also drawn from Mecklenburg and the adjacent countries. Importations of this kind are regarded
as indispensable, to prevent a degeneration in the stock. A Frenchman can scarcely be brought
to believe it possible; that we in England can preserve our fine breed of horses without having
recourse to similar expedients; and if at last, by dint of repeated asseverations, you succeed
in obtaining a reluctant assent, the conversation is almost sure to end in a shrug of the shoulders,
accompanied with the remark--"Ah, vous autres Anglais, vous voulez toujours voler de vos propres
ailes."

As we approached Brionne, the face of the country became more uneven; and we passed an extensive
tract of uncultivated chalk hills, resembling the downs of Wiltshire.--Brionne itself lies
in a valley watered by the Risle: the situation is agreeable, and advantageous for trade. The
present number of its inhabitants does not amount to two thousand; and there is no reason to
apprehend that the population has materially decreased of late years. But in the times of Norman
rule, Brionne was a town of more importance: it had then three churches, besides an abbey and
a lazar-house. At present a single church only remains; and this is neither large, nor handsome,
nor ancient, nor remarkable in any point of view. We found in it a monument of the revolution,
which I never saw elsewhere, and which I never expected to see at all. The age of reason was
a sadly irrational age.--The tablet containing the rights and duties of man, disposed in two
columns, like the tables of the Mosaic law, is still suffered to exist in the church, though
shorn of all its republican dignity, and degraded into the front of a pew.

On the summit of a hill that overhangs the town, stood formerly the castle of the Earls of
Brionne; and a portion of the building, though it be but an insignificant fragment, is still
left. The part now standing consists of little more than two sides of the square dungeon, The
walls, which are about fifty feet in height, appear crumbling and ragged, as they have lost
the greater part of their original facing. Yet their thickness, which even now exceeds twelve
feet, may enable them to bid defiance for many a century, to "the heat of the sun, and the
furious winter's rages."--Nearly the half of one of the sides, which is seventy feet long,
is occupied by three flat Norman buttresses, of very small projection. No arched door-way,
no window remains; nor any thing, except these buttresses, to give a distinct character to
the architecture: the hill is so overgrown with brush-wood, that though traces of foundation
are discernible in almost every part of it, no clear idea can be formed of the dimensions or
plan of the building. Its importance is sufficiently established by its having been the residence
of a son or brother of Richard IInd, Duke of Normandy, on whose account, the town of Brionne,
with the adjacent territory, was raised into an earldom. Historians speak unequivocally of
its strength. During the reign of William the Conqueror, it was regarded as impregnable. This
king was little accustomed to meet with disappointment or even with resistance; but the castle
of Brionne defied his utmost efforts for three successive years. Under his less energetic successor,
it was taken in a day. Its possessor, Robert, Earl of Brionne, felt himself so secure within
his towers, that he ventured, with only six attendants, to oppose the whole army of the Norman
Duke; but the besiegers observed that the fortress was roofed with wood; and a shower of burning
missiles compelled the garrison to surrender at discretion.--The castle was finally dismantled
by the orders of Charles Vth.

Brionne is known in ecclesiastical history as the place where the council of the church was
held, by which the tenets of Berengarius were finally condemned. It appears that the archdeacon
of Angers, after some fruitless attempts to make converts among the Norman monks, took the
bold resolution of stating his doctrines to the duke in person; and that the prince, though
scarcely arrived at years of manhood, acted with so much prudence on the occasion, as to withhold
any decisive answer, till he had collected the clergy of the duchy. They assembled at Brionne,
as a central spot; and here the question was argued at great length, till Berengarius himself,
and a convert, whom he had brought with him, trusting in his eloquence, were so overpowered
by the arguments of their adversaries, that they were obliged to renounce their errors. The
doctrine of the real presence in the sacrament, was thus incontrovertibly established; and
it has from that time remained an undisputed article of faith in the Roman Catholic church.

       *       *       *       *       *

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 54: Vol. III. p. 187.--The engraving in the Antiquarian Repertory was made from a
drawing in the possession of the late Sir William Burrell, Bart.]

[Footnote 55: The word Turold, in the tapestry, stands immediately over the head of a dwarf,
who is holding a couple of horses; and it has therefore been inferred by Montfaucon, (Monumens
de la Monarchie Française, I. p. 378.) that he is the person thus denominated. But M. Lancelot,
in the Mémoires de l'Académie des Inscriptions, VI. p. 753, supposes Turold to be the ambassador
who is in the act of speaking; and this seems the more probable conjecture. The same opinion
is still more decidedly maintained by Father Du Plessis, in his Histoire de la Haute Normandie,
II. p. 342.--"Sur une ancienne tapisserie de l'Eglise de Baieux, que l'on croit avoir été faite
par ordre de la Reine Mathilde femme du Conquérant, pour représenter les circonstances principales
de cette mémorable expédition, on lit distinctement le mot Turold à côté d'un des Ambassadeurs,
que Guillaume avoit envoiez au Comte de Ponthieu; et je ne doute nullement que ce Turold ne
soit le même que le Connétable. Le sçavant Auteur des Antiquitez de notre Monarchie croit cependant
que ce mot doit se rapporter à un Nain qui tient deux chevaux en bride derriere les Ambassadeurs;
et il ajoute que ce Nain devoit être fort connu à la Conr du Duc de Normandie. On avoue que
si c'est lui en effet qui doit s'appeller Turold, il devoit tenir aussi à la Cour de son Prince
un rang distingué; sans quoi on n'auroit pas pris la peine de le désigner par son nom dans
la tapisserie. On avoue encore que le nom de Turold est placé là de maniere qu'on peut à la
rigueur le donner au Nain aussi bien qu'à l'un des deux Ambassadeurs; et comme le Nain est
appliqué à tenir deux chevaux en bride, on pourrait croire enfin que c'est le Connétable, dont
les titres de l'Abbaïe de Facan nous ont appris le nom: Signum Turoldi Constabularii. Mais
le Nain est très-mal habillé, il a son bonnet sur la tête, et tourne le dos au Comte de Ponthieu,
pendant que les deux Ambassadeurs noblement vêtus regardent ce Prince en face, et lui parlent
découverts: trois circonstances qui ne peuvent convenir, ni au Connétable du Duc, ni à toute
autre personne de distinction qui auroit tenu compagnie, ou fait cortege aux Ambassadeurs."]

[Footnote 56: This tower is figured, but very inaccurately, by Gough, in his Alien Priories,
I. p. 22.--The cupola which then surmounted it is now gone; and the cap to the turret, which
served as the staircase, has strangely changed its shape.]

[Footnote 57: Alien Priories, I. p. 24.]

[Footnote 58: "Nam antea, sub tempore sex ducum vix ullus Normannorum liberalibus studiis adhæsit;
nec doctor inveniebatur, donec provisor omnium, Deus, Normannicis oris Lanfrancum appulit.
Fama peritiæ illius in totâ ubertim innotuit Europâ, unde ad magisterium ejus multi convenerunt
de Franciâ, de Wasconiâ, de Britanniâ, necne Flandriâ."--Duchesne, Scriptores Normanni, p. 519.]

[Footnote 59: A question always existed, whether the Empress was really buried here, or at
the abbey of Ste Marie des Prés, at Rouen. Hoveden expressly says, that she was interred at
Rouen: the chronicle of Bec, on the other hand, is equally positive in the assertion that her
body was brought to Bec, and entombed with honor before the altar of the Virgin. The same chronicle
adds that, in the year 1273, her remains were discovered before the high altar, sewed up in
an ox's hide.--Still farther to substantiate their claim, the monks of Bec maintained that,
in 1684, upon the occasion of some repairs being done to this altar, the bones of the empress
were again found immediately under the lamp (which, in Catholic churches, is kept constantly
burning before the holy sacrament,) and that they were deposited once more in the ground in
a wooden chest, covered with lead.--The Empress was a munificent endower of monasteries, and
was at all times most liberal towards Bec. William of Jumieges says, that it would be tedious
to enumerate the presents she made to the abbey, but that the sight of them gave pleasure to
those strangers who have seen the treasures of the most noble churches. His remarks on this
matter, and his account of her arguments with her father, on the subject of her choice of Bec,
as a place of her interment, deserve to be transcribed.--"Transiret illac hospes Græcus aut
Arabs, voluptate traheretur eadem. Credimus autem, et credere fas est, æquissimum judicem omnium
non solùm in futuro, verumetiam in præsenti seculo, illi centuplum redditurum, quod seruis
suis manu sicut larga, ita devota gratantèr impendit. Ad remunerationem verò instantis temporis
pertinere non dubium est, quòd, miserante Deo, sopita adversa valetudine, sanctitatem refouit,
et Monachos suos, Monachos Beccenses, qui præ omnibus, et super omnes pro ipsius sospitate,
jugi labore supplicandi decertando pene defecerant, aura prosperæ valetudinis ejus afflatos
omninò redintegravit.--Nec supprimendum illud est silentio, imò, ut ita dicatur, uncialibus
literis exaratum, seculo venturo transmittendum; quòd antequam convalesceret postulaverat patrem
suum, ut permitteret eam in CÅ“nobio Beccensi humari. Quod Rex primo abnuerat, dicens non esse
dignum, ut filia sua, Imperatrix Augusta, quæ semel et iterùm in urbe Romulea, quæ caput est
mundi, per manus summi Pontificis Imperiali diademate processerat insignita, in aliquo Monasterio,
licèt percelebri et religione et fama, sepeliretur; sed ad civitatem Rotomagensium, quæ metropolis
est Normannorum, saltem delata, in Ecclesia principali, in qua et majores ejus, Rollonem loquor
et Willelmum Longamspatam filium ipsius, qui Neustriam armis subegerunt, positi sunt, ipsa
et poneretur. Qua deliberatione Regis percepta, illi per nuncium remandavit, animam suam nunquam
fore lætam, nisi compos voluntatis suæ in hac duntaxat parte efficeretur.--O femina macte virtutis
et consilii sanioris, paruipendens pompam secularem in corporis depositione! Noverat enim salubrius
esse animabus defunctorum ibi corpora sua tumulari, ubi frequentiùs et devotiùs supplicationes
pro ipsis Deo offeruntur. Victus itaque pater ipsius Augustæ pietate et prudentia filiæ, qui
ceteros et virtute et pietate vincere solitus erat, cessit, et voluntatem, et petitionem ipsius
de se sepelienda Becci fieri concessit. Sed volente Deo ut præfixum est, sanitati integerrimæ
restituta convaluit."--Duchesne, Scriptores Normanni, p. 305.]

[Footnote 60: Histoire de la Haute Normandie, II. p, 281.]

LETTER XXI.

BERNAT--BROGLIE--ORBEC--LISIEUX--CATHEDRAL--ECCLESIASTICAL HISTORY.

(Lisieux, July, 1818.)

Instead of pursuing the straight road from Brionne to this city, we deviated somewhat to the
south, by the advice of M. Le Prevost; and we have not regretted the deviation.

Bernay was once celebrated for its abbey, founded in the beginning of the eleventh century,
by Judith, wife of Richard IInd, Duke of Normandy. Some of the monastic buildings are standing,
and are now inhabited: they appear to have been erected but a short time before the revolution,
and to have suffered little injury.--But the abbey church, which belonged to the original structure,
is all desolate within, and all defaced without. The interior is divided into two stories,
the lower of which is used as a corn market, the upper as a cloth hall. Thus blocked up and
encumbered, we may yet discern that it is a noble building: its dimensions are grand, and in
most parts it is a perfect specimen of the semi-circular style, except the windows and the
apsis, which are of later dates. The pillars in the nave and choir are lofty, but massy: the
capitals of some of them are curiously sculptured. On the lower member of the entablature of
one capital there are still traces of an inscription; but it is so injured by neglect and violence,
that we were unable to decipher a single word. The capital itself is fanciful and not devoid
of elegance.

The convent was placed under the immediate protection of the sovereign, by virtue of an ordinance
issued by Philip Augustus[61], in 1280, at which time Peter, Count of Alençon, attempted to
establish a claim to some rights affecting the monastery. He alleged a grant from a former
monarch to one of his predecessors, by whom he asserted that the convent had been founded;
and, in support of his claim, he urged its position within the limits of his territory. The
abbot and monks resisted: they gave proof that the abbey of Bernay was really founded by the
duchess; and therefore the king, after a full and impartial hearing, decided against the count,
and declared that the advocation of the monastery was thenceforth to belong to himself and
his successors in the dukedom for ever.--Judith died before the convent was entirely built,
and the task of completing it devolved upon her widowed husband, whose charter, confirming
the foundation, is still in existence. It begins by a recital of the pious motives[62] which
urged the duchess to the undertaking; it expressly mentions her death while the building was
yet unfinished; and, after detailing the various lands and grants bestowed on the abbey, it
concludes by denouncing the anger of God, and a fine of two hundred pounds weight of gold upon
those who disturb the establishment, "that they may learn to their confusion that the good
deeds of their ancestors, undertaken for the love of God, are not to be undone with impunity."

The parochial church at Bernay is uninteresting. The sculptures, however, which adorn the high
altar, are relics saved from the destruction of the abbey of Bec. The Virgin Mary and Joseph
are represented, contemplating the infant Jesus, who is asleep. The statues are all of the
natural size. We saw many grave-stones from the same abbey, nine or ten feet long, and covered
with monumental figures of the usual description, indented in the stone. These memorials were
standing by the side of the church door, not for preservation, but for sale! And at a small
chapel in the burial-ground near the town, we were shewn twelve statues of saints, which likewise
came from Bec. They are of comparatively modern workmanship, larger than life, and carved in
a good, though not a fine, style. In the same chapel is kept the common coffin for the interment
of all the poor at Bernay.

The custom of merely putting the bodies of persons of the lower class into coffins, when they
are brought to the burial-ground, and then depositing them naked in their graves, prevails
at present in this part of France as it did formerly in England.--In a place which must be
the receptacle for many that were in easy, and for not a few that were in affluent, circumstances,
it was remarkable that all lay indiscriminately side by side, unmarked by any monumental stone,
or any sepulchral record.--Republican France proscribed distinctions of every description,
and those memorials which tended to perpetuate distinctions beyond the limits of mortal existence,
were naturally most unpardonable in the eyes of the apostles of equality. But doctrines of
this nature have fallen into disrepute for more than twenty years; and yet the country church-yard
remains as naked as when the guillotine would have been the reward of opposition to the tenets
of the day. There are few more comfortless sights, than such a cemetery: it looks as if those
by whom it is occupied regarded death as eternal sleep, and thought that the memory of man
should terminate with the close of his life. However unlettered the muse, however hackneyed
the rhyme, however misapplied the text, it is consolatory to see them employed. Man dwells
with a melancholy satisfaction upon the tomb-stones of his relations and friends, and not of
them alone, but of all whom he has known or of whom he has heard.--A mere hic jacet, with the
name and years of him that sleeps beneath, frequently recals the most lively impressions; and
he who would destroy epitaphs would destroy a great incitement to virtue.--In other parts of
France tomb-stones, or crosses charged with monumental inscriptions, have re-appeared: at Bernay
we saw only two; one of them commemorated a priest of the town; the other was erected at the
public expence, to the memory of three gendarmes, who were killed at the beginning of the revolution,
and before religion was proscribed, in the suppression of some tumult.

At less than a mile from Bernay, in the opposite direction, is another church, called Notre
Dame de la Couture, a name borrowed from the property on which it stands. We were induced to
visit it, by the representation of different persons in the town, who had noticed our architectural
propensities. Some assured us that "C'est une belle pièce;" others that "C'est une pièce qui
n'est pas vilaine;" and all concurred in praising it, though some only for the reason that
"les processions vont tout autour du choeur."--We found nothing to repay the trouble of the walk.

Bernay contains upwards of six thousand inhabitants, the greater part of whom are engaged in
manufacturing coarse woollen and cotton cloths; and the manufactures flourish, the goods made
being principally for home consumption. It is the chief place of the arrondissement, and the
residence of a sub-prefect.--Most of the houses are like those at Rouen, merely wooden frames
filled with mortar, which, in several instances, is faced with small bricks and flints, disposed
in fanciful patterns: here and there the beams are carved with a variety of grotesque figures.
The lower story of all those in the high street retires, leaving room for a wooden colonnade,
which shelters the passenger, though it is entirely destitute of all architectural beauty.
The head-dress of the females at Bernay is peculiar, and so very archaic, that our chamber-maid
at the inn appeared to deserve a sketch, full as much as any monumental effigy.

On our road between Bernay and Orbec, we stopped at the village of Chambrais, more commonly
called Broglie. Before the revolution, it belonged to the noble family of that name, and it
thence derived its familiar appellation. The former residence of the Seigneurs of Broglie,
which is still standing, apparently uninjured, upon an adjoining eminence, has lately been
restored to the present Maréchal Duc de Broglie. It looks like an extensive parish work-house,
or like any thing rather than a nobleman's seat.--The village church is very ancient and still
curious, though in parts considerably modernized. Unlike most churches of great antiquity,
it is not built in the form of a cross, but consists only of a nave and choir, with side-aisles
and an apsis, all on a small scale[63]. Towards the north, the nave is separated from the aisle
by some of the largest and rudest piers I ever saw. They occupy full two-thirds of the width
of the intervening arches, which are five feet wide, elliptic rather than semi-circular, and
altogether without ornament of any kind. Above each of these arches is a narrow, circular-headed
window, banded with a cylindrical pilaster; and, in most instances, a row of quatrefoils runs
between the pillar and the window. The bases of the windows rest upon a string-course that
extends round the whole building; and on this also, alternating with the windows, rest corbels,
from which spring very short, clustered columns, intended to support the groinings of the roof.
On the south side, the massy piers have been pared into comparatively slender pillars; and
the arches are pointed, as are all the lower windows in the church.--The font is of stone,
and ancient: it consists of a round basin, on a quadrangular pedestal, like many in England.--The
west front of the church is peculiar. It is entered by a very wide, low, semi-circular door-way,
of rude architecture, and quite unornamented. Above is a window corresponding with those in
the clerestory; and, still higher, a row of interlaced arches, also semi-circular. A pointed
arch, the receptacle for the statue of a saint, surmounts the whole; but this is, most probably,
of a later æra, as evidently are the two lateral compartments, which terminate in slender spires
of slate, and are separated from the central division by Norman buttresses.

We stopped to dine at Orbec, a small and insignificant country town, formerly an appendage
of the houses of Orléans and Navarre, with the title of a barony; but, more immediately before
the revolution, the domain of the family of Chaumont. Its church is a most uncouth edifice:
the plan is unusual; the entrance is in the north transept, which ends in a square high tower.

Bernay, Orbec, and Lisieux, communicate only by cross roads, scarcely passable by a carriage,
even at this season of the year. From Orbec to Lisieux the road runs by the side of the Touques,
which, at Orbec, is no more than a rivulet. The beautiful green meadows in the valley, appear
to repay the great care which is taken in the draining and irrigating of them. They are every
where intersected by small trenches, in which the water is confined by means of sluices.--In
this part of the country, we passed several flocks of sheep, the true moutons du pays, a large
breed, with red legs and red spotted faces. Their coarse wool serves to make the ordinary cloth
of the country, but is inapplicable to any of a finer texture. To remedy this deficiency, and,
if possible, improve the local manufactures, some large flocks of Merino sheep were imported
at the time when the French occupied Spain; and they are said to thrive. But it is only of
late years that any attempts, have been made of the kind.--The Norman farmer, however careful
about the breed of his horses, has altogether neglected his sheep; and this is the more extraordinary,
considering that the prosperity of the province is inseparably connected with that of the manufactures,
and that much of the value of the produce must of necessity depend upon the excellence of the
material. His pigs are the very perfection of ugliness: it is no hyperbole to say, that, in
their form, they partake as much of a greyhound as of an English pig.--These animals are sure
to attract the gaze of our countrymen; and poor Trotter, in his narrative of the journey of
Mr. Fox, expressed his marvel so often, as to call down upon himself the witty vengeance of
one of our ablest periodical writers.

Melons are cultivated on a great scale in the country about Lisieux. They grow here in the
natural soil, occupying whole fields of considerable size, and apparently without requiring
any extraordinary pains.--As we approached the city, the meadows, through which we passed,
were mostly occupied as extensive bleaching-grounds. Lisieux is an industrious manufacturing
town. Its ten thousand inhabitants find their chief employment in the making of the ordinary
woollen cloths, worn by the peasantry of Normandy and of Lower Brittany. Linen and flannels
are also manufactured here, though on a comparatively trifling scale. For trade of this description,
Lisieux is well situated upon the banks of the Touques, a small river, which, almost immediately
under the walls of the town, receives the waters of a yet smaller stream, the Orbec. A project
is in agitation, and it is said that it may be carried into effect at an inconsiderable expence,
of making the Touques navigable to Lisieux. At present, it is so no farther than the the little
town of the same name as the river; and even this derives no great advantage from the navigation;
for, however near its situation is to the mouth of the stream, it is approachable only by vessels
of less than one hundred tons burthen.--It was at Touques that Henry Vth landed in France,
in the spring of 1417, when the monarch, flushed with a degree of success as extraordinary
as it was unexpected, quitted England with the determination of returning no more till the
whole kingdom of France should be subjugated.

The greater part of the houses in Lisieux are built of wood; and many of them are old, and
most of them are mean; yet, on the whole, it is picturesque and handsome. Its streets are spacious,
and contain several large buildings: it is surrounded with pleasant boulevards; and its situation,
like that of most other Norman towns, is delightful.--In consequence of the revolution, the
city has lost the privilege of being an episcopal see. Even when Napoléon, by virtue of the
concordat of 1801, restored the Gallican church to its obedience to the the supreme Pontiff,
the see of Lisieux was suppressed. The six suffragan bishops of ancient Normandy were at that
time reduced to four, conformably to the number of the departments of the province; and Lisieux
and Avranches merged in the more important dioceses of Bayeux and Coutances.

The cathedral, now the parish church of St. Peter, derived, however, one advantage from the
revolution. Another church, dedicated to St. Germain, which had previously stood immediately
before it, so as almost to block up the approach, was taken down, and the west front of the
cathedral was made to open upon a spacious square.--Solid, simple grandeur are the characters
of this front, which, notwithstanding some slight anomalies, is, upon the whole, a noble specimen
of early pointed architecture.--It is divided into three equal compartments, the lateral ones
rising into short square towers of similar height. The southern tower is surmounted by a lofty
stone spire, probably of a date posterior to the part below. The spire of the opposite tower
fell in 1553, at which time much injury was done to the building, and particularly to the central
door-way, which, even to the present day, has never been repaired.--Contrary to the usual elevation
of French cathedrals, the great window over the principal entrance is not circular, but pointed:
it is divided into three compartments by broad mullions, enriched with many mouldings. The
compartments end in acute pointed arches.--In the north tower, the whole of the space from
the basement story is occupied by only two tiers of windows. Each tier contains two windows,
extremely narrow, considering their height; and yet, narrow as they are, each of them is parted
by a circular mullion or central pillar. You will better understand how high they must be,
when told that, in the southern tower, the space of the upper row is divided into three distinct
tiers; and still the windows do not appear disproportionately short. They also are double,
and the interior arches are pointed; but the arches, within which they are placed, are circular.
In this circumstance lies the principal anomaly in the front of the cathedral; but there is
no appearance of any disparity in point of dates; for the circular arches are supported on
the same slender mullions, with rude foliaged capitals, of great projection, which are the
most distinguishing characteristics of this style of architecture.

The date of the building establishes the fact of the pointed arch being in use, not only as
an occasional variation, but in the entire construction of churches upon a grand scale, as
early as the eleventh century.--Sammarthanus tells us that Bishop Herbert, who died in 1049,
began to build this church, but did not live to see it completed; and Ordericus Vitalis expressly
adds, that Hugh, the successor to Herbert, upon his death-bed, in 1077, while retracing his
past life, made use of these words:--"Ecclesiam Sancti Petri, principis apostolorum, quam venerabilis
Herbertus, praedecessor meus, coepit, perfeci, studiosè adornavi, honorificè dedicavi, et cultoribus
necessariisque divino servitio vasis aliisque apparatibus copiosè ditavi."--Language of this
kind appears too explicit to leave room for ambiguity, but an opinion has still prevailed,
founded probably upon the style of the architecture, that the cathedral was not finished till
near the expiration of the thirteenth century. Admitting, however, such to be the fact, I do
not see how it will materially help those who favor the opinion; for the building is far from
being, as commonly happens in great churches, a medley of incongruous parts; but it is upon
one fixed plan; and, as it was begun, so it was ended.--The exterior of the extremity of the
south transept is a still more complete example of the early pointed style than the west front:
this style, which was the most chaste, and, if I may be allowed to use the expression, the
most severe of all, scarcely any where displays itself to greater advantage. The central window
is composed of five lancet divisions, supported upon slender pillars: massy buttresses of several
splays bound it on either side.

The same character of uniformity extends over the interior of the building. On each side of
the nave is a side-aisle; and, beyond the aisles, chapels. The pillars of the nave are cylindrical,
solid, and plain. Their bases end with foliage at each corner, and foliage is also sculptured
upon the capitals. The arches which they support are acute.--The triforium is similar in plan
to the part below; but the capitals of the columns are considerably more enriched, with an
obvious imitation of the antique model, and every arch encircles two smaller ones. In the clerestory
the windows are modern.--The transepts appear the oldest parts of the cathedral, as is not
unfrequently the case; whether they were really built before the rest, or that, from being
less used in the services of the church, they were less commonly the objects of subsequent
alterations. They are large; and each of them has an aisle on the eastern side. The architecture
of the choir resembles that of the nave, except that the five pillars, which form the apsis,
are slender and the intervening arches more narrow and more acute.--The Lady-Chapel, which
is long and narrow, was built towards the middle of the fifteenth century, by Peter Cauchon,
thirty-sixth bishop of Lisieux, who, for his steady attachment to the Anglo-Norman cause, was
translated to this see, in 1429, when Beauvais, of which he had previously been bishop, fell
into the hands of the French. He was selected, in 1431, for the invidious office of presiding
at the trial of the Maid of Orléans. Repentance followed; and, as an atonement for his unrighteous
conduct, according to Ducarel, he erected this chapel, and therein founded a high mass to the
Holy Virgin, which was duly sung by the choristers, in order, as is expressed in his endowment-charter,
to expiate the false judgment which he pronounced[64].--The two windows by the side of the
altar in this chapel have been painted of a crimson color, to add to the effect produced upon
entering the church; and, seen as they are, through the long perspective of the nave and the
distant arches of the choir, the glowing tint is by no means unpleasing.--The central tower
is open within the church to a considerable height: it is supported by four arches of unusual
boldness, above which runs a row of small arches, of the same character as the rest of the
building; and, still higher, on each side, are two lancet-windows.--The vaulting of the roof
is very plain, with bosses slightly pendant and carved.

At the extremity of the north transept is an ancient stone sarcophagus, so built into the wall,
that it appears to have been incorporated with the edifice, at the period when it was raised.
The style of the medallions which adorn it will be best understood by consulting the annexed
sketch, which is very faithful, though taken under every possible disadvantage. The transept
is now used as a school; and the little filthy imps, who are there taught to drawl out their
catechisms, continued swarming round the feverish artist, during the progress of the drawing.
The character of the heads, the crowns, and the disposition of the foliage, may be considered
as indicating that it is a production, at least of the Carlovingian period, if it be not indeed
of earlier date. I believe it is traditionally supposed to have been the tomb of a saint, perhaps
St. Candidus; but I am not quite certain whether I am accurate in the recollection of the name.--Above
are two armed statues, probably of the twelfth or thirteenth centuries. These have been engraved
by Willemin, in his useful work, Les Monumens Français, under the title of Two Armed Warriors,
in the Nave of the Cathedral at Lisieux; and both are there figured as if in all respects perfect,
and with a great many details which do not exist, and never could have existed, though at the
same time the draftsman has omitted the animals at the feet of the statues, one of which is
yet nearly entire.--This may be reckoned among the innumerable proofs of the disregard of accuracy
which pervades the works of French antiquaries. A French designer never scruples to sacrifice
accuracy to what he considers effect.--Willemin describes the monuments as being in the nave
of the church. I suspect that he has availed himself of the unpublished collection of Gaignat,
in this and many other instances. It is evident that originally the statues were recumbent;
but I cannot ascertain when they changed their position.--No other tombs now exist in the cathedral:
the brazen monument raised to Hannuier, an Englishman, the marble that commemorated the bishop,
William d'Estouteville, founder of the Collège de Lisieux at Paris, that of Peter Cauchon in
the Lady-Chapel, and all the rest, were destroyed during the revolution.

The diocese of Lisieux was a more modern establishment than any other in Normandy. Even those
who are most desirous to honor it by antiquity, do not venture to date its foundation higher
than the middle of the sixth century. Ordericus Vitalis, a monk of the province, suggests with
some reason that we ought not to be hasty in forming our judgment upon these subjects; for
that, owing to the destruction caused by the Norman pirates and the abominable negligence (damnabilis
negligentia) of those to whom the care of the records of religious houses had subsequently
been intrusted, many documents had been irretrievably lost.--The see of Lisieux was also peculiarly
unfortunate, in having twice been in a state of anarchy, and on each occasion for a period
of more than a century. The series of its prelates is interrupted from the year 670 to 853,
and again from 876 to 990.

It is rather extraordinary, that no one of the Lexovian bishops was ever admitted by the church
into the catalogue of her saints. Many of them were prelates of unquestionable merit. Freculfus,
in the ninth century, was a patron of literature, and himself an author; Hugh of Eu, grandson
of Richard, Duke of Normandy, was one of the most illustrious ecclesiastics of his day; Gilbert
is described by Ordericus Vitalis as having been a man of exemplary charity, and deeply versed
in all sciences, though it is admitted that he was somewhat too much addicted to worldly pleasures,
and not averse from gambling; and Arnulf, whose letters and epigrams are preserved among the
manuscripts of the Vatican, was a prelate who would have done honor to St. Peter's chair.--All
these were bishops of Lisieux, during the ages when canonization was not altogether so unfrequent
as in our days. Arnulf particularly distinguished himself by taking a leading part in the principal
transactions of the times. He accompanied the crusaders to the holy land in 1147; five years
subsequently he officiated at the marriage of Henry Plantagenet with Eleanor of Guyenne, the
repudiated wife of Louis le Jeune, which was performed in his cathedral; he assisted at the
coronation of the same king, by whom he was shortly afterwards employed in a mission of great
importance at Rome; and he interposed to settle the differences between that sovereign and
Thomas à Becket; and though he espoused the part of the prelate, he had the good fortune to
retain the favor of the monarch. A life thus eventful ended with the conviction that all was
vanity!--Arnulf, disgusted with sublunary honors, abdicated his see and retired to a monastery
at Paris, where he died.--One of the immediate successors of this prelate, William of Rupierre,
was the ambassador of Richard Coeur-de-Lion to the Pope; and he pleaded the cause of his sovereign
against Walter, Archbishop of Rouen, on the occasion of the differences that originated from
the building of Château Gaillard. He also resisted the power usurped by King John within the
city and liberties of Lisieux, and finally obtained a sentence from the Norman court of exchequer,
whereby the privileges of the dukes of the province were restricted to what was called the
Placitum Spathæ, consisting of the right of billetting soldiers, of coining money, and of hearing
and determining in cases of appeal. The decision is honorable both to the independence of the
court, and the vigor of the prelate.--In times nearer to our own, a bishop of Lisieux, Jean
Hennuyer, obtained a very different distinction. Authors are strangely at variance whether
this prelate is to be regarded as the protector or the persecutor of the protestants. All agree
that his church suffered materially from the excesses of the Huguenots, in 1562, and that,
on the following year, he received public thanks from the Cardinal of Bourbon, for the firmness
with which he had opposed them; but the point at issue is, whether, after the massacre of St.
Bartholomew, ten years subsequently, he withstood the sanguinary orders from the court to put
the Huguenots to the sword, or whether he endeavored, as far as lay in his power, to forward
the pious labor of extirpating the heretics, but was himself effectually resisted by the king's
own lieutenant.--Sammarthanus tells us that the first of these traditions rests solely upon
the authority of Anthony Mallet[65] but it obtained general credence till within the last three
years, when a very well-informed writer, in the Mercure de France, and subsequently in the
article Hennuyer in the Bibliographie Universelle, espoused, and has apparently established,
the opposite opinion.

We visited only one other of the churches in Lisieux, that of St. Jacques, a large edifice,
in a bad style of pointed architecture, and full of gaudy altars and ordinary pictures. On
the outside of the stalls of the choir towards the north is some curious carving; but I should
scarcely have been induced to have spoken of the building, were it not for one of the paintings,
which, however uninteresting as a piece of art, appears to possess some historical value. It
represents how the bones of St. Ursinus were miraculously translated to Lisieux, under the
auspices of Hugh the Bishop, in 1055; and it professes, and apparently with truth, to be a
copy, made in the seventeenth century, from an original of great antiquity. The legend relating
to the relics of this saint, is noticed by no author with whom I am acquainted, nor do I find
him mentioned any where in conjunction with the church of Lisieux, or with any other Norman
diocese.--But the extraordinary privilege granted to the canons of the cathedral, of being
Earls of Lisieux, and of exercising all civil and criminal jurisdiction within the earldom,
upon the vigil and feast-day of St. Ursinus, in every year, is most probably connected with
the tradition commemorated by the picture. The actual existence of the privilege, in modern
times, we learn from Ducarel; who also details at length the curious ceremonies with which
the claim of it was accompanied. The exercise of these rights was confirmed by a compact between
the canons and the bishop, who, prior to the revolution, united the secular coronet of an earl
with the episcopal mitre, and bore supreme sway in all civil and ecclesiastical polity, during
the remaining three hundred and sixty-three days in the year.

       *       *       *       *       *

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 61: This ordinance is preserved by Du Monstier in the Neustria Pia, p. 400.]

[Footnote 62: The preamble of the charter is as follows:--"Nulli dubium videri debet futuros
esse haeredes Regni coelestis, et cohaeredes Dei, qui Christum haeredem sui facientes, eorum,
quæ in hujus vitae peregrinatione, quasi a quadam paterna haereditate possident, locis ea Divino
cultui deditis mancipare non dubitant. Ad quam rem, nostram firmat fidem calix aquæ frigidae,
qui, juxta Evangelicum verbum, suo pollet munere. Non ergò divini muneris gratia privari credendi
sunt, qui Ecclesiasticis obsequiis, etsi officio non intersunt, rerum tamen suarum admistratione,
Divini officii sustentant ministros: ea spe temporalem subministrantes alimoniam, ut sic solummodò
coelestibus reddant intentos, qui coelestis Regis assiduo constituuntur invigilare obsequio,
participes fiant ejusmodi beneficii omnimodò."--Neustria Pia, p. 398.]

[Footnote 63: The following are the dimensions of the building, in English feet:--

              LENGTH.     WIDTH.
  Nave          54          15
  Choir         45          15
  North aisle                7
  South ditto               15

]

[Footnote 64: Anglo-Norman Antiquities, p. 47.]

[Footnote 65: "Sed ne quid omittam eorum etiam quæ unum Antonium Mallet habent auctorem, anno
1572, cum prorex urbis Lexoviensis Livarotus a Carolo rege literas accepisset, quibus qui Lexovii
infecti erant hæresi occidi omnes jubebantur per eos dies quibus princeps civitas cruore ejus
insaniæ hominum commaduerat, easque communicasset episcopo: Neque sum passurus, inquit præsul,
oves meas, et quamquam evagatas Christi caula, meas tamen adhuc, necdum desperatas, gladio
trucidari. Referente contra prorege imperio se mandatoque urgeri principis; quod si posthabeatur,
omnem esse periculi aleam in caput suum moriendique necessitatem redituram: Et polliceor, inquit
episcopus, illa te eximendum, postulantique cautionem, præsul consignatum manu sua scriptum
tradidit, fidem datam confirmans.

(Lisieux, July, 1818.)

Lisieux represents one of the most ancient capitals of the primitive tribes of Gaul. The Lexovii,
noticed by Julius Cæsar, in his Commentaries, and by other authors, who were almost contemporary
with the Roman conqueror, are supposed by modern geographers to have occupied a territory nearly
co-extensive with the bishopric of Lisieux; and it may be remarked, that the bounds of the
ancient bishoprics of France were usually conterminal with the Roman provinces and prefectures.

The capital of the Lexovii was called the Neomagus or Noviomagus Lexoviorum; and no doubt ever
was entertained but that the present city occupied the same site, till an accidental discovery,
in the year 1770, proved the contrary to be the fact.--About that time a chaussée was formed
between Lisieux and Caen; and, in the course of some excavations, which were made under the
direction of M. Hubert, the superintending engineer, for the purpose of procuring stone, the
laborers opened the foundations of some ruined buildings scattered over a field, called les
Tourettes, about three-quarters of a mile from the former town. The character of these foundations
was of a nature to excite curiosity: they were clearly the work of a remote age, and various
specimens of ancient art were dug up amongst the ruins. The extent of the foundations, which
spread over a space four times as large as the plot occupied by modern Lisieux left no doubt
but that Danville, and all other geographers, must have been mistaken with respect to the position
assigned by them to the ancient Neomagus. M. Hubert drew a plan of the ruins, and accompanied
it with an historical memoir; but unfortunately he was a man little capable of prosecuting
such researches; and though M. Mongez, in his report to the National Institute[66], eulogized
the map as exact, and the memoir as excellent, they were both of them extremely faulty. It
was reserved for M. Louis Dubois, of whom I shall have occasion to speak again before I close
this letter, to repair the omissions and rectify the mistakes of M. Hubert, and he has done
it with unremitting zeal and extraordinary success. The researches of this gentleman, among
the remains of Neomagus Lexoviorum, have already brought to light a large number of valuable
medals, both in silver and bronze, as well as a considerable quantity of fragments of foreign
marble, granite, and porphyry, some of them curiously wrought. The most important of his discoveries
has been recently made: it is that of a Roman amphitheatre, in a state of great perfection,
the grades being covered only by a thin layer of soil, which a trifling expence of time and
labor will effectually remove.

Such vestiges prove that Neomagus must have been a place of importance; and, like the other
Gallo-Roman cities, it would probably have maintained its honors under the Franks; but about
the middle of the fourth century, the Saxons, swarming from the mouths of the Elbe and Weser,
laid waste the coasts of Belgium and of Neustria, and finally established themselves in that
portion of northern Gaul called the Secunda Lugdunensis, which thence obtained, in the Notitia
Imperii, the title of the Littus Saxonicum.--In the course of these incursions, it is supposed
that Neomagus was utterly destroyed by the invaders. None of the medals dug up within the precincts
of the town, or in its neighborhood, bear a later date than the reign of Constantine; and,
though the city is recorded in the Itinerary of Antoninus, no mention of it is to be found
in the curious chart, known by the name of the Tabula Peutingeriana, formed under the reign
of Theodosius the Great; so that it then appears to have been completely swept away and forgotten.

The new town of Lisieux and the bishopric most probably arose together, towards the close of
the sixth century; and the city, like other provincial capitals in Gaul, took the name of the
tribe by whom the district had been peopled. It first appears in history under the appellation
of Lexovium or Lexobium: in the eleventh century, when Ordericus Vitalis composed his history,
it was called Luxovium; and soon after it became Lixovium, and Lizovium, which, gallicised,
naturally passed into Lyzieulx, or, as it is now written, Lisieux. The city was ravaged by
the Normans about the year 877, in the course of one of their predatory excursions from Bayeux:
it again felt their vengeance early in the following century, when Rollo, after taking Bayeux
by storm, sacked Lisieux at the head of his army on his way to Rouen. The conqueror was not
put in possession of the Lexovian territory by Charles the Simple till 923, eleven years after
the rest of Neustria had been ceded to him.

United to the duchy, Lisieux enjoyed a short respite from the calamities of war; nor does it
appear to have borne any prominent part in the transactions of the times. The name, indeed,
of the city occurs as the seat of the council held for the purpose of degrading Malgerius from
the primacy of Normandy; but, except on this occasion, Lisieux is scarcely mentioned till the
first year of the twelfth century, when it was the seat of rebellion. Ralph Flambart, bishop
of Durham, a prelate of unbounded arrogance, had fled from England, and joined Duke Robert,
then in arms against his brother. Raising the standard of insurrection, he fixed himself at
Lisieux, took forcible possession of the town, and invested his son, only twelve years old,
with the mitre[67], while he himself exercised despotic authority over the inhabitants. At
length, he purchased peace and forgiveness, by opening the gates to his lawful sovereign, after
the battle of Tinchbray.--In the middle of October, in the same year, Henry returned to Lisieux,
and there held an assembly of the Norman nobility and prelates, who proclaimed peace throughout
the duchy, enacted sundry strict regulations to prevent any infringement of the laws, and decreed
that Robert, the captive duke, should be consigned to an English prison.--Two years subsequently,
another council was also assembled at Lisieux, by the same sovereign, and for nearly the same
objects; and again, in 1119, Henry convened his nobles a third time at Lisieux, when this parliament
ratified the peace concluded at Gisors, six years previously, and witnessed the marriage[68]
of the king's son, William Adelin, with Matilda, daughter of Fulk, earl of Anjou.

Historical distinction is seldom enviable:--in the wars occasioned by the usurpation of Stephen,
Lisieux once more obtained an unfortunate celebrity. The town was attacked in 1136, by the
forces of Anjou, under the command of Geoffrey Plantagenet, husband of the Empress Maud, joined
by those of William, Duke of Poitiers; and the garrison, consisting of Bretons, seeing no hope
of effectual resistance or of rescue, set fire to the place to the extreme mortification of
the invaders, who, in the language of the chronicles of the times, "when they beheld the city
and all its wealth a prey to the flames, waxed exceedingly wroth, at being deprived of the
spoil; and grieved sorely for the loss of the booty which perished in the conflagration."--The
town, however, was not so effectually ruined, but that, during the following year, it served
King Stephen as a rallying point, at which to collect his army to march against his antagonist.--In
1169, it was distinguished by being selected by Thomas à Becket, as the place of his retirement
during his temporary disgrace.

History from this time forward relates but little concerning Lisieux. Though surrounded with
walls during the bishopric of John, who was promoted to the see early in the twelfth century,
the situation of the town, far from the coast or from the frontiers of the province, rendered
the inhabitants naturally unwarlike, and caused them in general to submit quietly to the stronger
party.--Brito, in his Philippiad, says that, when Philip Augustus took Lisieux, in 1213, the
Lexovians, destitute of fountains, disputed with the toads for the water of the muddy ditches.
His mentioning such a fact is curious, as shewing that public fountains were at that early
period of frequent occurrence in Normandy.--Our countrymen, in the fifteenth century, acted
with great rigor, to use the mildest terms, towards Lisieux. Henry, after landing at Touques,
in 1417, entered the town, in the character of an enraged enemy, not as the sovereign of his
people: he gave it up to plunder; and even the public archives were not spared. The cruelty
of our English king is strongly contrasted by the conduct of the Count de Danois, general of
the army of Charles VIIth, to whom the town capitulated in 1449. Thomas Basin, then bishop,
negociated with such ability, that, according to Monstrelet, "not the slightest damage was
done to any individual, but each peaceably enjoyed his property as before the surrender."

The most celebrated monasteries within the diocese of Lisieux were the Benedictine abbeys of
Bernay, St. Evroul, Preaux, and Cormeilles.--Cormeilles was founded by William Fitz-Osborne,
a relation to William the Conqueror, at whose court he held the office of sewer, and by whom
he was promoted to the earldom of Hereford. Its church and monastic buildings had so far gone
to ruin, in the last century, as to call forth a strong remonstrance from Mabillon[69]: they
were afterwards repaired by Charles of Orléans, who was appointed abbot in 1726.--The abbey
of Preaux is said to have existed prior to the invasion of the Normans; but its earliest records
go no farther back than the middle of the eleventh century, when it was restored by Humphrey
de Vetulis, who built and inclosed the monastery about the year 1035, at which time Duke Robert
undertook his pilgrimage to the Holy Land. This abbey, according to the account given by Gough,
in his Alien Priories, presented to thirty benefices, and enjoyed an annual revenue of twenty
thousand livres.--Among its English lands which were considerable, was the priory of Toft-Monks
in our own immediate vicinity: the name, as you know, remains, though no traces of the building
are now in existence.

The third abbey, that of St. Evrau or St. Evroul, called in Latin, Monasterium Uticense, was
one of the most renowned throughout Normandy. The abbey dates its origin from St. Evroul himself,
a nobleman, who lived in the reign of Childebert, and was attached to the palace of that monarch,
"from which," to use the words of the chronicles, "he made his escape, as from shipwreck, and
fled to the woods, and entered upon the monastic life."--The legend of St. Ebrulfus probably
savors of romance, the almost inseparable companion of traditional, and particularly of monastic,
history: it is safer, therefore, to be contented with referring the foundation of the monastery
to the tenth century, when William Gerouis, after having been treacherously deprived of his
sight and otherwise maimed, renounced the world; and, uniting with his nephews, Hugh and Robert
de Grentemaisnil, brought considerable possessions to the endowment of this abbey. The abbey
was at all times protected by the especial favor of the kings of France. No payment or service
could be demanded from its monks; they acknowledged no master without their own walls, besides
the sovereign himself; they were entitled to exemption from every kind of burthen; and they
had the privilege of being empowered to castellate the convent, and to compel the people of
the surrounding district to contribute their assistance for the purpose.

St. Evroul, however, principally claims our attention, as the sanctuary where Ordericus Vitalis,
to use his own expressions, "delighted in obedience and poverty."--This most valuable writer
was an Englishman; his native town being Attingesham, on the Severn, where he was born in the
year 1075. He was sent to school at Shrewsbury, and there received the first rudiments, both
of the humanities and of ecclesiastical education. In the tenth year of his age, his father,
Odelerius, delivered the boy to the care of the monk Rainaldus. The weeping father parted from
the weeping son, and they never saw each other more. Ordericus crossed the sea, and arrived
in Normandy, an exile, as he describes himself, and "hearing, like Joseph in Egypt, a language
which he understood not." In the eleventh year of his age, he received the tonsure from the
hands of Mainerius, the abbot of St. Evroul. In the thirty-third year of his age, he was ordained
a priest; and thenceforward his life wore away in study and tranquillity. Aged and infirm,
he completed his Ecclesiastical History, in the sixty-seventh year of his age; and this great
and valuable work ends with his auto-biography, which is written in an affecting strain of
simplicity and piety.--The Ecclesiastical History of Ordericus is divided into parts: the first
portion contains an epitome of the sacred and profane history of the world, beginning with
the incarnation, and ending with Pope Innocent IInd. The second, and more important division,
contains the history of Normandy, from the first invasion of the country, down to the year
1141.--Though professedly an ecclesiastical historian, yet Ordericus Vitalis is exceedingly
copious in his details of secular events; and it is from these that his chronicle derives its
importance and curiosity. It was first published by Duchesne, in his collection of Norman historians,
a work which is now of rare occurrence, and it has never been reprinted.

Valuable materials for a new edition were, however, collected early in the eighteenth century,
by William Bessin, a monk of St. Ouen; and these, before the revolution, were preserved in
the library of that abbey. Bessin had been assisted in the task by Francis Charles Dujardin,
prior of St. Evroul, who had collated the text, as published in the collection of Norman historians,
with the original manuscript in his own monastery, to which latter Duchesne unfortunately had
not access, but had been obliged to content himself with a copy, now in the Royal Library at
Paris. It is to be hoped, that the joint labors of Bessin and Dujardin may still be in existence,
and may come to light, when M. Liquet shall have completed the task of arranging the manuscripts
in the public library at Rouen. The manuscript which belonged to St. Evroul, and was always
supposed to be an autograph from the hands of Ordericus Vitalis himself, was discovered during
the revolution among a heap of parchments, thrown aside as of no account, in some buildings
belonging to the former district of Laigle. It is now deposited in the public library of the
department of the Orne, but unfortunately, nearly half the leaves of the volume are lost. The
earliest part of what remains is towards the close of the seventh book, and of this only a
fragment, consisting of eight pages, is left. The termination of the seventh book, and the
whole of the eighth are wanting. From the ninth to the thirteenth, both of these inclusive,
the manuscript is perfect. A page or two, however, at the end of the work, which contained
the author's life, has been torn out.--At the beginning of the sixteenth century, the manuscript
was complete; for it is known that, at that time, a monk of St. Evroul made a transcript of
it, which extended through four volumes in folio. These volumes were soon dispersed. Two of
them found their way to Rouen, where they were kept in the library of St. Ouen: the other two
were in that of the abbey of St. Maur de Glandefeuille, on the Loire. A third, though incomplete,
copy of the original manuscript was also known to exist in France before the revolution. It
formerly belonged to Coaslin de Camboret, Bishop of Metz, by whom it was presented, together
with four thousand manuscripts, to the monks of St. Germain des Prés at Paris. But the greater
part of the literary treasures of this abbey fell a prey to the flames in July, 1793, and it
is feared that the copy of Ordericus perished at that time.

The original code from St. Evroul, was discovered by M. Louis Dubois, whom I have already mentioned
in connection with the ruins of Neomagus. He is an antiquary of extensive knowledge and extraordinary
zeal. His History of Lisieux, which he has long been preparing for the press, will be a work
of great curiosity and interest. The publication of it is for the present suspended, whilst
he superintends an edition of the Vaux-de-Vires, or Vaux de villes, of Olivier Basselin, an
early Norman poet. Meanwhile, M. Dubois still continues his researches among the foundations
of the ancient city, from which he has collected a number of valuable relics. Some of the most
pleasant and instructive hours of my tour have been spent in his society; and, whilst it was
under his guidance that I visited the antiquities of Lisieux, his learning assisted me in illustrating
them. M. Dubois likewise possesses a large collection of original autograph letters, which
I found much pleasure in perusing.

During the reign of Napoléon, he held the office of librarian of Alençon, a situation that
afforded him the opportunity of meeting with many literary curiosities of this nature. Among
others, which thus fell into his hands, was the following letter, written by the Princess Borghese,
sister to the Emperor, and addressed to the Empress Marie-Louise, by whom it was received,
while on a tour through the western departments. I annex a transcript of this epistle; for,
although it has no immediate connection with the main subject of our correspondence, it yet
is a very singular contribution towards the private history of the dynasty of Napoléon.--The
odd mixture of caudle-cup compliment and courtly flattery, is sufficiently amusing. I have
copied it, word for word, letter for letter, and point for point; for, as we have no other
specimen of the epistles of her imperial highness, I think it right to preserve all the peculiarities
of the original; and, by, way of a treat for the collectors of autographs, I have added a fac-simile
of her signature.

Madame et tres chere SÅ“ur,

je recois par le Prince Aldobrandini la lettre de V.M. et la belle tasse dont elle a daigné,
le charger pour moi au nom de L'empereur, je remercie mille fois votre aimable bonté, et j'ose
vous prier ma tres chere sÅ“ur d'Ãªtre aupres de L'empereur l'interprete de ma reconnaissance
pour cette marque de souvenir.--je fais parler beaucoup le Prince et la Princesse Aldobrandini
sur votre santé, sur votre belle grossesse, je ne me lasse pas de les interroger, et je suis
heureuse d'apprendre que vous vous portés tres bien, que rien ne vous fatigue, et que vous
avés la plus belle grossesse qu'il soit possible de desirer, combien je desire chere sÅ“ur
que tous nos vÅ“ux soient exaucÃ©s, ne croyÃ©s cependant pas que si vous nous donnés une petite
Princesse je ne l'aimerais pas. non, elle nous serait chere, elle resemblerait a V.M. elle
aurait sa douceur, son amabilité, et ce joli caractere qui la fait cherir de ceux qui out le
bonheur de la Conaitre--mais ma chÃ¨re sÅ“ur j'ai tort de m'apesantir sur les qualités dont
serait douée cette auguste princesse, vous nous donnerés d'abord un prince un petit Roi de
Rome, jugés combien je le desire nos bons toscans prient pour vous, ils vous aiment et je n'ai
pas de peine a leur inspirer ce que je sens si vivement.

je vous remercie ma tres chere sÅ“ur de l'interest que vous prenez a mon fils, tout le monde
dit qu'il ressemble a L'empereur. cela me Charme il est bien portant a present, et j'espere
qu'il sera digne de servir sous les drapeaux de son auguste oncle.--adieu ma chere sÅ“ur soyÃ©s
assÃ©s bonne pour Conserver un souvenir a une sÅ“ur qui vous est tendrement attachée. Napoléon
ne cesse de lire la lettre pleine de bonté que V.M. a daigné lui ecrire, cela lui a fait sentir
le plaisir qu'il y avait a savoir lire, et l'encourage dans ses etudes--je vous embrasse et suis,

Madame et tres chere SÅ“ur

de V.M.

La plus attachée

Pitti le 18 janvier 1811

       *       *       *       *       *

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 66: See Magazin Encyclopédique, for 1802, III. p. 504.]

[Footnote 67: This transaction appears to have been peculiarly flagrant: a long detail of the
circumstances, accompanied by several letters, very characteristic of the feeling and church-government
of the times, is preserved in the Concilia Normannica, p. 520.--The account concludes in the
following words:--"Exhorruit ad facinus, non Normannia solum et Anglia, quibus maledicta progenies
notissima erat, sed et universa Gallia, et a singulis ad Apostolicum Paschalem delatum est.
Nec tamen utrique simul ante quinquienniuin sordes de domo Dei propulsare prævaluerunt.

(Caen, August, 1818.)

Our reception at Caen has been somewhat inauspicious: we had scarcely made the few necessary
arrangements at the hôtel, and seated ourselves quietly before the caffé au lait, when two
gens-d'armes, in military costume, stalked without ceremony into the room, and, taking chairs
at the table, began the conversation rather abruptly, with "Monsieur, vous êtes sous arrêt."--My
companions were appalled by such a salutation, and apprehended some mistake; but the fact turned
out to be, that our passport did not bear the signature of the mayor of Rouen, and that this
ignorance of the regulations of the French police had subjected us to so unexpected a visit.
It was too late in the day for the deficiency to be then supplied; and therefore, after a few
expostulations, accompanied with observations, on their part, that we had the good fortune
to have fixed ourselves at an honnête hôtel, and did not wear the appearance of suspicious
persons, the soldiers took their leave, first exacting from me a promise, that I would present
myself the next morning before the proper officer, and would in the meanwhile consider myself
a prisoner upon my parole.

The impression which this occurrence could not fail to make upon our minds, was, that the object
of the gens-d'armes had been either to extort from us money, or to shew their consequence;
but I have since been led to believe that they did no more than their duty.--We have several
acquaintance among the English who reside here, and we find from the whole of them, that the
utmost strictness is practised in all matters relating to passports, and not less towards natives
than foreigners. No Frenchman can quit his arrondissement unprovided with a passport; and the
route he intends to take, and the distance he designs to travel, must also be specified. A
week or two ago the prefect of the police himself was escorted back to Caen, between a couple
of gens-d'armes, because he inadvertently paid a visit to a neighboring bathing-place without
his passport in his pocket. This is a current story here: I cannot vouch for its authenticity;
however it is certain, that since the discovery of the late plot contrived by the ultras, a
plot whose existence is generally disbelieved, the French police is more than usually upon
the alert.

When I presented myself at the Hôtel de Ville, to redeem my promise, a recent decree was pointed
out to me, containing a variety of regulations which shew extraordinary uneasiness on the part
of the government, and which would seem to indicate that they are in possession of intelligence
respecting projects, that threaten the public tranquillity[70]. To judge from all official
proceedings, it seems as if we were walking upon a smothered volcano, and yet we are told by
every body that there is not the slightest room for apprehension of any kind.

This interruption has thrown me out of the regular course of my narration.--My last letter
left me still at Lisieux, from which city to Caen the road lies through a tract of country
altogether without interest, and in most places without beauty. During the first half of the
ride, we could almost have fancied ourselves at home in Norfolk.--About this part of the way,
the road descends through a hollow or dale, which bore the ominous name of "Coupe Gorge." When
Napoléon was last in Normandy, he inquired into the origin of the appellation.--The diligences,
he was answered, "had often been stopped and robbed in this solitary pass."--Napoléon then
said, "If one person can be made to settle here, more will follow, for it is conveniently situated
between two good towns. Let the prefect buy a little plot of ground and build a house upon
it, and give it to an old soldier, upon condition that he shall constantly reside in it with
his family." The orders of Napoléon were obeyed. The old soldier opened an inn, other houses
arose round it, and the cut-throat pass is now thoroughly secure. The conductor and the post-boy
tell the tale with glee whilst they drive through the hamlet; and its humble dwellings will
perhaps recal the memory and fame of Napoléon Buonaparte when the brazen column of the grand
army, and the marble arch of the Thuilleries, shall have been long levelled with the ground.--As
to the character of the landscape, I must add, that though it makes a bad picture, there are
great appearances of care in the agriculture, and of comfort in the population. The country,
too, is sufficiently well wooded; and apple and pear trees every where take the place of the
pollard oaks and elms of our hedge-rows.

