Let me refer Mr. P. Cunningham to "Stow's Survey, p. 27. 92. Thoms' Edition," for a full answer
to his query. The passages are too long to cite, but Mr. C. will find sufficient proof of the
part of a royal residence having once stood in this obscure lane, now almost demolished in
the sweeping city improvements, which threaten in time to leave us hardly a fragment of the
London of the old chronicler.

The Tower was also called the Queen's Wardrobe, and it was there, Froissart tells us, that
Joan of Kent, the mother of Richard II., took refuge during Wat Tyler's rebellion, when forced
to fly from the Tower of London. The old historian writes that after the defeat of the rebels
"pour le premier chemin que le Roy fit, il vint deuers sa Dame de mère, la Princesse, qui estoit
en un chastel de la Riolle (que l'on dit la Garderobbe la Reyne) et là s'estoit tenue deux
jours et deux nuits, moult ébahie; et avoit bien raison. Quand elle vit le Roy son fils, elle
fut toute rejouye, et luy dit, 'Ha ha beau fils, comment j'ay eu aujourd'huy grand peine et
angoisse pour vous.' Dont respondit le Roy, et dit, 'Certes, Madame, je le say bien. Or vous
rejouissez et louez Dieu, car il est heure de le louer. J'ay aujourd'huy recouvré mon heritage
et le royaume d'Angleterre, que j'avoye perdu.' Ainsi se tint le Roy ce jour delez sa mère."
(Froissart, ii 123. Par. 1573.)

In Stow's time this interesting locality had been degraded into stable for the king's horses,
and let out in divers tenements.

E.V.

     [We are indebted to J.E., R.T.S., and other correspondents for
     replies to Mr. Cunningham's Query; but as their answers contain
     only general references to works which it is reasonable to suppose
     that gentleman must have consulted during the preparation of his
     Handbook for London we have not thought it necessary to insert
     them.]

       *       *       *       *       *

ANCIENT INSCRIBED DISH.

Mr. Editor,--The subject of inscribed dishes of latten, of which so many varieties have recently
been imported, appears to be regarded with interest by several of your readers. I am indebted
to the Rev. William Drake, of Coventry, for a rubbing from one of these mysterious inscriptions,
upon an "alms-plate" in his possession. In the centre is represented the Temptation. There
are two inscribed circles; on the inner and broader one appear letters, which have been read,--RAHEWISHNBY.
They are several times repeated. On the exterior circle is the legend On the exterior circle
is the legend--ICH. SART. GELUK. ALZEIT. This likewise is repeated, so as to fill the entire
circle. I have never before met with these inscriptions in the large number of dishes of this
kind which I have examined. The have been termed alms-dishes, and are used still in parochial
collections in France, as doubtless they have been in England. They were also used in ancient
times in the ceremony of baptism, and they are called baptismal basins, by some foreign writers.
This use is well illustrated by the very curious early Flemish painting in the Antwerp Gallery,
representing the seven sacraments. The acolyte, standing near the font, bears such a dish,
and a napkin. The proper use of these latten dishes was, as I believe, to serve as a laver,
carried round at the close of the banquet in old times, as now at civic festivities. They often
bear devices of a sacred character; but it is probable that they were only occasionally used
for any scared purpose, and are more properly to be regarded as part of the domestic appliances
of former times.

ALBERT WAY.

       *       *       *       *       *

BARNACLES.

