The Duke's explanation in the House of Lords related to two branches of charge. The first was
a charge of want of personal courtesy to Mr. Canning, as exhibited in the foregoing correspondence;
the second was a general charge of hostility to the new premier, founded on personal jealousy,
and on every other ground, probable or improbable, which the malice of party could suggest.
The Duke began by observing, that the House of Lords was scarcely the proper place to enter
on such subjects, but that his only excuse was the necessity of vindicating his character against
what had been said in another place, to say nothing of the manner in which he had been treated
by a corrupt press, which if not in the pay, was under the control of the government. He then
proceeded to meet the first charge, that of personal discourtesy. It was said, that his asking
in reply to Mr. Canning's first letter, "who was to be at the head of the new government?"
was intended as an insult to Mr. Canning. This he denied. The letter of Mr. Canning, he said
gave no information who were to form the new cabinet, or what members of the old one had resigned,
or were expected to resign. Nor was he invited, as he found the other ministers had been, to
receive personal explanations on the subject. Under those circumstances the inquiry was made.
But that was not the first communication that had passed between them on the subject. Early
in the month of April, continued the Duke, he had had a conversation with Mr. Canning, in which,
anticipating the possibility of his being called upon to reconstruct the government, one of
his plans was to recommend that Mr. Robinson (now the Earl of Ripon) should be raised to the
peerage and be made premier. Of this plan the Duke at the time approved, and it was with this
in his mind that he wrote the first answer, which gave Mr. Canning so much offence. Precedent,
also, he contended, was against Mr. Canning; for it appeared that in 1812, when Lord Liverpool,
by command of the Prince Regent, waited on Mr. Canning, to know whether he would form part
of the proposed administration, the first question Mr. Canning asked of the noble earl (then
in the same position Mr. Canning was in now) was, "who was to be at the head of the new administration?"
The Duke's letter was written on the 10th, and Mr. Canning only kissed hands as minister on
the 12th; so that, even in that point of view, the Duke's question was, he contended, necessary.

It may be said that there is enough on the face of this communication to show that the Duke
of Wellington took a narrow, and, so to speak, technical, view of the relative positions of
himself and Mr. Canning; that the latter expected a more conventional and generous construction
of his position and proposal from one with whom he was on terms of intimate friendship.

In answer to this, it may be as well to remind the reader that, where the slightest movements
of public men may be construed into a compromise of public principles, a rigid attention to
etiquette becomes a matter of duty. Many acts of the Duke of Wellington, not merely as a civilian,
but even as a military commander, have been misjudged, because this obvious principle has been
overlooked.

In answer to the second charge--that of hostility to the new administration on personal grounds--the
Duke referred to the known opinions of Mr. Canning on the Catholic question. How could he be
in office under a minister whom he must oppose on, at least, one vital question of domestic
policy? How could he give the right honourable gentleman that fair support which one member
of a cabinet had a right to expect from another? The principles of the new government could
not be those of that of the Earl of Liverpool. The principle of the latter was to maintain
the existing laws; of the former, to change them in a fundamental particular. The absurd calumny
that he had threatened the king to resign, unless he were prepared to make him prime minister,
hardly deserved an answer; and then came his celebrated nolo episcopari speech, which created
against him in a year after, so much ridicule and rancour. He said--"Was it likely that he
would resign the office of commander-in-chief," a situation so consonant to his feelings and
his habits, "for the mere empty ambition of being placed at the head of the government. I know,"
continued the Duke, "I am disqualified for any such office; and I, therefore, say, that, feeling
as I do with respect to the situation which I recently filled at the head of the army; liking
it as I did from the opportunity it gave me to improve the condition of my old comrades in
arms; knowing my own capacity for filling that office, and my incapacity for filling the post
of first minister, I should have been mad, and worse than mad, if I had ever entertained the
insane project which certain individuals, for their own base purposes, have imputed to me."

His reason for retiring from the command of the army was founded on the peculiar circumstances
of his dispute with Mr. Canning. "No political opinions would have prevented him," he said,
"under ordinary circumstances, from continuing either at the Horse Guards or at the head of
the army in the field; but, from the tone and tenor of the communication he had received from
his majesty; from the nature of the invitation to join the administration, contained in Mr.
Canning's post letter, and from the contents of the last letter he received from Mr. Canning,
by his majesty's commands, he saw it would be impossible to continue his relations with that
gentlemen, either with service to the country or credit to himself. His resolution had been
adopted after the most mature deliberation."

The foregoing is the substance of the Duke of Wellington's explanation of his own share in
the general resignation of the chief members of Lord Liverpool's cabinet.

Another circumstance occurred a few days afterwards, which still further increased the public
belief that there was a serious quarrel between the Duke and the new premier. The former moved
an amendment in committee on the corn bill, which had the effect of defeating the new government
on that measure. This was regarded as an act of hostility on the part of the Duke, and, shortly
after, a correspondence was made public between him and Mr. Huskisson, then President of the
Board of Trade, in which it appeared clear that the Duke had moved the amendment in the belief
that the government had agreed to it through Mr. Huskisson, and equally clear that the Duke
had been mistaken. There were not wanting those who asserted roundly that the Duke had taken
advantage of an ambiguity in Mr. Huskisson's letters, in order to have a pretext for inflicting
this injury on the government. And, unhappily, Mr. Canning himself, carried out of parliamentary
decorum by an irritability of temper, springing from the difficulties of his position and from
his advancing illness, went so far as publicly to declare that the Duke of Wellington, great
man as he was, had been but in instrument in the hands of others. History, he said, afforded
parallel the actions of other great men.

The Duke maintained a dignified silence with respect to this attack; but, in the following
year, long after Mr. Canning's death, and when he had himself become prime minister, he took
an opportunity of disclaiming, in strong language, the existance of any personal hostility
on his part to the deceased statesman.

On the formation of the new administration, under Lord Goderich, the Duke of Wellington resumed
the command of the army. This was on August the 27th.

Early in January, 1828, this administration fell to pieces, and the Duke of Wellington was
called on by the king to form another. He was at first reluctant to do so, but ultimately gave
way. He rallied round him Mr. Peel, and most of those who had seceded on the accession of Mr.
Canning; so that his administration was nearly identical with that of the Earl of Liverpool,
except that Mr. Huskisson and some two or three of the coalitionary whigs, were retained.

In the following May, these were got rid of. Mr. Huskisson gave a vote on the East Retford
Bill, adverse to those of his colleagues; and on leaving the house, sat down (at two in the
morning), and wrote a letter to the Duke, which was construed into a positive resignation of
office. An amusing correspondence took place between the two statesmen, Mr. Huskisson declaring
he never meant to resign, and the Duke as positively adhering to his original construction
of the first letter. Mr. Huskisson's place was filled up, and he resented that proceeding by
declaring in the House of Commons his belief that he had been sacrificed as a peace-offering
to gain the support of some of the old tories.

The whole of the Duke's share in this correspondence is highly characteristic; and it was in
the course of negotiations for the return of Mr. Huskisson that the Duke uttered the sentence
so often quoted of him: "It is no mistake; it can be no mistake; and it shall be no mistake!"
Strange to say, although the Duke's mode of proceeding to Mr. Huskisson was somewhat arbitrary,
it gained him a sort of popularity, on account of the firmness with which he stuck to his point.
The laugh was fairly on his side; and many of the vessels in the Thames hoisted flags, and
exhibited other signs of rejoicing at Mr. Huskisson's dismissal.

On his appointment to be Prime Minister, the Duke again resigned the command of the army (Feb.
14th).

The first important measure, during the Duke's administration, was the repeal of the Test and
Corporation Acts. In giving his support to that bill, the Duke met an argument, that it was
a step towards Roman Catholic emancipation, by a declaration that, though he voted for the
measure, no man could be a more determined opponent of those claims than he; and he added,
"Until I see a great change in that question, I shall certainly oppose it." In the June following,
however, the commons having in the meanwhile passed a resolution indicating favour to emancipation,
the Duke declared that he looked on the question as one of expediency; and concluded his speech
by recommending that the public mind should be allowed to rest. In the end, it might be possible
to do something; for he was most desirous of seeing the subject brought to an amicable conclusion.

Causes altogether independent of parliamentary majorities or discussions had in the mean time
been at work, and had proposed this change in the tone of ministers. Mr. O'Connell, although
a Catholic, had been returned to parliament as member for the county of Clare; and during the
summer and autumn, the whole of the Catholic population had become so organized, under the
Catholic Association, as seriously to threaten the continuance of the existing system in Ireland.
These events produced their effects upon English statesmen on either side of the question;
and the more moderate of the Conservative party began to think that some concession to the
Catholics would be inevitable.

Still, however, the government gave no sign of yielding. On the contrary, a circumstance occurred,
in the month of December, which led to an opposite inference. Dr. Curtis, a Roman Catholic
prelate, who had been on terms of personal acquaintance with the Duke of Wellington at Salamanca,
wrote a letter to him on the position of the Catholic question, to which the Duke wrote an
answer, which seemed to deny all hope of a speedy settlement. It was immediately made public
by Dr. Curtis through the Catholic Association. The effect of the letter was to make that body
redouble their efforts.

In a few days after, the Marquis of Anglesea, the lord lieutenant, who had always been the
avowed supporter of the Catholics, also addressed a letter in reply to one he received from
Dr. Curtis, in which he gave the Catholics advice as to the best mode of proceeding in order
to attain emancipation. This conduct on the part of the viceroy, together with the open countenance
he gave to the leading catholics in Dublin, gave the strongest offence to the king, and amounted
to such a breach of duty that the Duke of Wellington was compelled to recall the marquis from
Ireland.

The public mind was now in the greatest perplexity. On the one hand, the state of Ireland seemed
to render some measure of concession inevitable, while on the other there was the letter to
Dr. Curtis, and the dismissal of the lord lieutenant--facts which seemed to discountenance
all hope.

The year 1829 was the most eventful in the civil career of the Duke of Wellington. He had been
throughout his life the opponent of Roman Catholic emancipation: he was now to come before
the public in the new character of a prime minister prepared to grant, as a measure of free
grace, that which he had hitherto denounced as inconsistent with the safety of the Protestant
constitution.

Up to within a few days of the opening of parliament, however, the design of the government
was wholly concealed, but in the speech from the throne parliament was recommended to entertain
the question. In the debate on the address the Duke of Wellington announced it as the intention
of the government to introduce a measure for the emancipation of the Catholics. And now arose
a political storm almost unparalleled in the history of party, from the effects of which we
are scarcely yet recovered.

The Duke and Mr. Peel were immediately made the objects of the most unrelenting hostility by
the opponents of emancipation. Seeing the favour in which the two statesmen are now held by
their party, it would be almost impossible to believe that such abusive language as was then
poured forth could have been used towards them, were it not on record.

The Duke especially was charged with a treble treachery; to Mr. Canning, on account of the
transactions previously referred to; towards the Protestant party, of whom he had been the
chosen leader, and whom he was about to betray; and lastly a personal treachery in the concealment
of his design until the moment of execution, by which he prevented others from coming forward
and taking the station he had abandoned, as leader of the opponents of emancipation.

The Duke's replies to all these charges will be found at length in the following pages. But
the charge of personal treachery was afterwards put in a shape which compelled the Duke of
Wellington to take a very different notice of it. The Earl of Winchelsea wrote a letter to
the secretary of King's College, in which, after adverting to the support which the Duke had
given on Protestant principles to that institution, he stated that he now believed that the
Duke's conduct had been only a blind to the high church party, and that he was about, under
the cloak of the Protestant religion, to carry into effect his insidious designs for the infringement
of our liberties, and the introduction of Popery into every department of the state. This letter
the Duke found himself bound to notice; but the earl refused to retract. A correspondence took
place, which ended in a duel. Neither party was hurt, and the earl subsequently made a public
apology for the original expressions.

In the meanwhile the Emancipation Bill was steadily progressing. On the 19th of February, in
introducing the bill for the suppression of dangerous associations, the Duke of Wellington
declared that there had been no previous bargain or compact with the Roman Catholic party while
the Emancipation Bill was in the House of Commons. Short discussions took place almost every
night in the House of Lords upon its merits, in which whenever the Duke joined he did so with
the greatest reluctance. At length, on the 2nd of April, he moved the second reading of the
bill in the House of Lords, in a speech which reflected credit upon him for moral courage,
if not for consistency.

In fact, great moral courage is one of the most striking features in the character of the Duke
of Wellington. Some of his supporters will doubt this assertion; and will point to the Emancipation
Act as a proof that the Duke wanted the firmness to act up to his avowed principles. This involves
a wrong assumption. It is one thing obstinately to adhere to an opinion in defiance of its
impracticability: another to retract that opinion so soon as its impracticability is demonstrated.
Whether the Duke was right or wrong in his opinions, no one will deny that it required great
moral courage for him to stand up in the face of the country, braving the anger of his old
associates, and declare that he could no longer resist the force of public opinion.

It was in the course of the speech introducing the Emancipation Bill that the Duke made his
well-known declaration "that he would sacrifice his life to prevent one month of civil war."

One fruit of the angry passions excited during the progress of the Emancipation Bill was a
series of prosecutions against the Morning Journal for libels on the Duke of Wellington, the
Lord Chancellor, and the government collectively. These prosecutions were conducted with unusual
acrimony by Sir James Scarlet, the Attorney-General; and the Duke of Wellington came in for
a very considerable share of public censure for having authorised such prosecutions. Probably
the Duke intended to inflict another "great moral lesson," as he has always set his face against
the unrestrained license of the press; but, looking back with calmer feelings to the events
of that excited period, and admitting that the language used by the editor was certainly too
strong, though faithfully representing the feelings of a large class of the public, it is certainly
difficult to avoid now coming to the conclusion that Mr. Alexander, when sentenced to twelve
months' imprisonment in Newgate and heavy fines, was treated with a severity scarcely justifiable.
It is probable that the Duke of Wellington, acting on his rigid notions of the division of
responsibility, after ordering the prosecution, left the affair to Sir James Scarlet, and from
that moment declined to interfere.

Among the discussions to which the prosecutions gave rise, an amusing speech of Sir Charles
Wetherell, on the 2nd of March, 1830, in the House of Commons, will repay perusal.

In a debate which took place in the House of Lords on the first night of the session, upon
the state of the country, the Duke of Wellington delivered a speech upon the causes of the
existing distress, which proved (allowances being made for differences of opinion) that his
qualifications to deal with the most intricate questions involved in civil government were
very little inferior to his military talents. Passages from that speech will be found in the
following pages. At the time many of his views were ridiculed by those political economists
who were destined so soon to rise to power under shelter of the reform question; but it will
be seen that the improved experience of the country after ten years' undisputed sway of those
gentlemen, confirms many of the chief conclusion to which the astute and practical mind of
the Duke of Wellington then led him. That speech, however, raised a hornet's nest around him
in the House of Commons. Among others, Sir Francis Burdett made a personal attack on the Duke,
in which he said that his administration showed how correct was his estimate of his own powers
when he said he would be mad to think of being prime minister. That illustrious individual,
he said, had been treated with much tenderness, because he had conferred the greatest benefits
on his country; but if his services had been great his recompense had been great also. Mr.
Brougham, also, made a most personal attack on the Duke on the day before parliament closed.

In the mean while, George the Fourth died (on the 26th of June), and parliament was dissolved.
The new parliament, called by William the Fourth, was opened by the king in person on November
the 2nd. It was decidedly unfavourable to the ministry, against whom were arrayed a most talented
and unscrupulous opposition. They swayed with almost absolute power the great mass of the people,
who hoped everything from parliamentary reform, and had not as yet had experience of the extravagance
of such hopes. A part of the tactics of the whig leaders was to excite personal animosity against
the Duke of Wellington, who was libelled as a sort of would-be military dictator, seeking to
introduce in civil affairs the iron discipline of the camp, and to ride rough shod over a free
people.

With the clamour for reform out of doors and in the commons, it was not to be supposed that
even the impassible Duke of Wellington could avoid referring to the subject in the debate on
the address. This he did, with more candour than prudence, by his well-known declaration against
reform, and in favour of the existing system. It will be found at length elsewhere. The excitement
it produced was enormous: so great, that in three days afterwards ministers advised William
the Fourth not to proceed to the City to visit the Lord Mayor, lest there should be tumults.

On the 15th, they were defeated in the House of Commons, upon a motion of Sir Henry Parnell,
for a committee to inquire into the civil list; and on the following day the Duke of Wellington
and his colleagues resigned; being apprehensive that the same majority would vote for the principle
of parliamentary reform in a day or two after, and not wishing to virtually give up that question
by going out after being beaten on it in the House of Commons.

During the year 1831, while the discussions on the Reform Bill were going on, the Duke made
frequent speeches against the measure, and led the opposition in the House of Lords in a manner
quite consistent with his declaration in November. In a speech he made on the 28th March, explanatory
of the causes of his resignation, he distinctly denied that the reform fever was owing to that
declaration, and asserted that it was to be attributed to the effect on the public mind of
the revolutions in France and Belgium.

On the 10th of October, after the Reform Bill had been thrown out in the House of Lords, the
Duke of Wellington was insulted by a mob on his way to the house. In the evening, the windows
of his mansion at Hyde Park-corner were broken. It is to be lamented that any class of Englishmen
were to be found so degraded as to be guilty of this ingratitude.

Fortunately, the worst of the evil was averted, by the total indifference of the Duke to all
such demonstrations. The greatest men have been despisers of mankind, of the swaying multitude,
that is to say, the unthinking, the headstrong, and the violent--not of necessity merely, from
that intrinsic superiority and natural antagonism which forbid their commingling; but also,
and with a more hearty potency, from the experience which they, alternately the adored or the
scorned, have had of the inconstancy of the giddy people. In this light estimation, indeed,
of the judgment of their less worthy fellows, lies the secret of their greatness and their
strength. They ride towards their goal while the stream tends that way, and when the course
of the current is diverted, they are not dismayed. Their scorn of the means leads them to pass
on by their own strength, or to rest secure on the foundation-rock of our moral nature--principle,
and the consciousness of duty done.

In April, 1832, on the motion for the second reading of the new Reform Bill in the House of
Lords, the Duke made a speech, characterised by unqualified opposition to the measure, at a
time when many of the conservative peers (called "waverers,") were for giving it a qualified
support. But, after a defeat of ministers in committee, on Lord Lyndhursts motion of the 7th
of May, followed by their resignation, and when the king, rather than agree to create peers,
called on the Duke of Wellington to form an administration, he expressed his readiness to do
so upon the principle of moderate reform.

This sudden inconsistency the public could not understand; the Duke's avowed reason was that
when called on by his sovereign he could not leave him alone in his difficulty. However, the
Duke's efforts were brought to a summary conclusion by the refusal of Sir Robert Peel to join
in the attempt.

It is amusing to see the opposite Views these two statesmen took of their duties to their king.
Sir Robert Peel considered that "his acceptance of office pledged to carry an efficient Reform
Bill, he being a determined enemy to such a measure, would be a political immorality which
would not allow him to enter on his services with a firm step, a light heart, and an erect
attitude." The Duke said, "if he had refused to assist his majesty, because he had hitherto
given his opposition to parliamentary reform, he would not have been able to show his face
in the streets for shame of having deserted his sovereign in circumstances so painful and alarming."
The result of Sir Robert's refusal was, that the Duke gave up the attempt, and Earl Grey was
recalled.

During the sessions of 1833 and 1834, the Duke was the leader of the opposition in the House
of Lords; always at his post, and always ready to grapple with the different questions brought
before the peers. On the 9th of June, 1834, took place his installation as Chancellor of the
University of Oxford;--a brilliant scene, at which some of the most distinguished men of the
day assisted.

In November, 1834, on the death of Lord Spencer, and the dismissal of the whig ministry, the
king called on the Duke of Wellington to form an administration. The Duke recommended his majesty
to entrust that office to Sir Robert Peel, who, however, was then at Rome. During the interval
that elapsed before his arrival, the Duke accepted, provisionally, the office of First Lord
of the Treasury, and the seals of the three secretaryships of state. On Sir Robert Peel's arrival,
he gave up the government, with the exception of the office of Secretary for Foreign Affairs,
which (December 9th) he retained.

Much clamour was at this time raised against the Duke by the whigs, on the old score of dictatorship,
and also as to a supposed insult offered to Lord Melbourne.

On the meeting of parliament in the following February (on the 24th), the Duke gave an explanation
of his conduct (inserted in this volume), sufficient to clear him in all impartial eyes of
all the charges then urged against him by party spirit.

On the 8th of April following, in consequence of the repeated defeats sustained in the House
of Commons by Sir Robert Peel, the conservative ministry resigned, and with them of course
the Duke of Wellington. From that time until the re-accession of Sir Robert Peel to power,
in 1841, the Duke continued to lead, with his accustomed vigour and unpretending ability, the
opposition in the House of Lords. In this position, he exercised the utmost forbearance towards
the government; never using his power except when circumstances absolutely required its exercise.

One of these instances occurred at the opening of the session of 1836, when the principles
of a particular measure were recommended in a speech from the throne. To the address the Duke
moved an amendment, condemnatory of the practice of thus pledging the sovereign in a speech
from the throne to the principles of any measure. The amendment was agreed to by the whigs.

During the whole interval between 1833 and 1841, the Duke is to be found occasionally speaking
in the upper house, in his capacity of leader of opposition. The same sound practical sense
which has been already attributed to him, characterised his whole proceedings. It is needless
to particularise the different important debates in which he took part.

In August, 1839, a grand banquet was given to the Duke at Dover, as Lord Warden of the Cinque
Ports. A splendid pavilion was erected for the occasion, in which two thousand persons, including
some most distinguished men, sat down to dinner. The gallery was filled with ladies. The most
interesting point in the day's proceedings, was when Lord Brougham, the most active and distinguished
civilian of his age, rose to propose the health of the Duke of Wellington, the most illustrious
military commander. Eulogium could scarcely he carried farther than it was by Lord Brougham
in these words:--

"Although no man," said the noble and learned lord, "on such an occasion, is entitled to entertain
any personal feelings on his own behalf, it would be affectation--it would be insolent ingratitude--were
I not to express the sentiments which glow within my bosom, at being made the instrument of
making known those feelings which reign predominant in yours. Enough, however, of myself--now
for my mighty subject.--But the choice you have made of your instrument--of your organ, as
it were, on this occasion--is not unconnected with that subject; for it shows that on this
day, on this occasion, all personal, all political feelings are quelled--all strife of party
is hushed--that we are incapable, whatever be our opinions, of refusing to acknowledge transcendant
merit, and of denying that we feel the irresistible impulse of unbounded gratitude; and I am
therefore asked to do this service, as if to show that no difference of opinion upon subjects,
however important--no long course of opposition, however contracted upon public principles--not
even long inveterate habits of public opposition--are able so far to stifle the natural feelings
of our hearts, so far to obscure our reason, as to prevent us from feeling as we ought--boundless
gratitude for boundless merit. Neither can it pluck from our minds that admiration proportioned
to the transcendant genius, in peace and in war, of him who is amongst us to-day; nor can it
lighten or alleviate the painful, the deep sense which the untried mind never can get rid of
when it is overwhelmed by a debt of gratitude, too boundless to be repaid. Party--the spirit
of party--may do much, but it cannot operate so far as to make us forget those services; it
cannot so far bewilder the memory, and pervert the judgment, and eradicate from our bosoms
those feelings which do us the most honour, and are the most unavoidable, and, as it were,
dry up the kindly juices of the heart; and, notwithstanding all its vile and malignant influence
on other occasions, it cannot dry up those juices of the heart so as to parch it like very
charcoal, and make it almost as black. But what else have I to do? If I had all the eloquence
of all the tongues ever attuned to speak, what else could I do? How could a thousand words,
or all the names that could be named, speak so powerfully--ay, even if I spoke with the tongue
of an angel, as if I were to mention one word--Sir Arthur Wellesley, Duke of Wellington, the
hero of a hundred fields, in all of which his banner was waved in triumph; who never, I invoke
both hemispheres to witness--bear witness Europe, bear witness Asia--who never advanced but
to cover his arms with glory; the captain who never advanced but to be victorious; the mightier
captain who never retreated but to eclipse the glory of his advance, by the yet harder task
of unwearied patience, indomitable to lassitude, the inexhaustible resources of transcendant
skill, showing the wonders, the marvels of a moral courage never yet subdued. Despising all
who thwarted him with ill-considered advice--neglecting all hostility, so he knew it to be
groundless--laughing to scorn reviling enemies, jealous competitors, lukewarm friends, ay,
hardest of all, to neglect despising even a fickle public, he cast his eye forwards as a man
might--else he deserves not to command men--cast forward his eye to a time when that momentary
fickleness of the people would pass away, knowing that in the end the people are always just
to merit."

The Duke's acknowledgement, was simple, according to his character, and modest as became his
position. He said, "The noble lord, who I hope will allow me to call him my noble friend, has
stated to you with great truth, that there are times and circumstances in which, and under
which, all feelings of party, all party animosity, all descriptions of political feelings must
be laid aside. I must do my noble and learned friend the justice to say, that for years and
years there has been nothing of that description in social life as between him and me, notwithstanding
which it is certainly true that I have had the misfortune of differing in opinion with my noble
and learned friend upon many points of internal and possibly of other descriptions of policy.
But I am afraid that, notwithstanding my most anxious wish to co-operate with all of you in
the public service in which we have all been employed, I may happen (I know it does happen)
to differ with some of you upon subjects of political interest to the country. But my noble
and learned friend judges of you correctly when he says that such feelings of difference would
not prevent you--as they have not prevented you--from doing me the honour of inviting me to
this festival, and of bringing here to meet me not only the whole of this interesting county,
but persons from all parts of the kingdom and even from abroad. Therefore my noble and learned
friend does you as well as himself justice when he states that there are occasions--occasions
in relation to individuals as well as in relation to public interests and services--in which
all feelings of party politics and opinions must be laid aside, in order to carry on the public
service to the greatest point of advantage to the public interest. I have had sufficient experience
in public life to know that this must be the case. I am convinced that it is that feeling which
has induced you to pay this tribute of respect to the person holding the situation of Lord
Warden of the Cinque Ports, in order that you might encourage others hereafter to perform their
duty honestly and conscientiously in the same honourable office."

On the 18th November, the same year, the Duke had an attack of epilepsy, which for a short
time alarmed the public greatly for his safety, on account of his advanced age. Sir Astley
Cooper and Dr. Hume were down at Walmer with him for a week, at the end of which time he recovered,
greatly to the joy of the whole nation. It turned out that the Duke had brought on the attack
adopting, to cure himself of a slight illness, a mode of treatment which would not be the most
wise in a man of twenty-five, but was most dangerous to one so advanced in years. The Duke
is very determined on such points--can never be persuaded that he is not the same man in point
of constitution that he was when in the Peninsula; and still preserves all the hardy habits
of a soldier's life. On this occasion he had sought to cure himself by fasting and cold bathing:
he then, while under this treatment, followed the hounds, the consequence of which was that
he fainted, and was soon afterwards seized as described.

On the return of Sir Robert Peel to power, in 1841, the Duke of Wellington again joined him;
but this time he took no office, though accepting a seat in the cabinet. He still continued
to lead in the lords, where his influence is fully felt, and where he constantly astonishes
the house and silences his detractors by displaying a degree of knowledge on all legislative
subjects scarcely compatible with his military education, and an activity and attention to
business that would be admirable in any one, but which are still more praiseworthy as the voluntary
service of a man who has conferred such distinguished benefits on his country.

       *       *       *       *       *

Few men have been so blessed by fortune as to have been enabled to achieve a first-rate reputation
in arms, and afterwards to arrive at as great distinction in the arts of peace. Rarely, at
long intervals in the lapse of time, such opportunities have been afforded to great men; but
still more rarely have even the greatest men been able to use them. To the Duke of Wellington,
in our own time, has this high honour been especially vouchsafed; and no man ever yet lived
who shewed himself more worthy the distinction, or more able to fulfill the demands of his
country, whether in peace or in war. His youth and prime were spent in achieving victories:
to preserve to posterity the fruits of those victories, in steady government, together with
free institutions; to make England such an example for foreign nations as would render all
such victories unnecessary hereafter; this has been the still more glorious task of his declining
years.

The military reputation of the Duke of Wellington rests on so firm a basis, that it will never
be shaken. So long as military science is necessary in the world, so long will his system of
tactics be followed by commanders responsible in their own hearts for the lives of their soldiers,
and to their country for the conduct of their enterprises.

Of the military value of his dispositions and movements, military critics have recorded, almost
universally, their unqualified praise. To civilians, it is left to admire the constant and
watchful care of the Duke, whether in India or the Peninsula, in securing the due provision
for his troops, while he at the same time maintained the strictest honour towards the natives
who supplied them; and to respect the clearness of his perception, the sagacity of his decisions,
and, above all, the firmness and determination of purpose which sustained him amidst every
drawback and difficulty, until by his success he compelled his detractors to yield themselves
captive to his judgment. It is only necessary to read the dispatches and general orders of
the Duke of Wellington, in order to be convinced that he is not a mere soldier winning battles
by superior tactics, but that he is also a man of a very high order of general talent, with
an unusual insight into human nature, and possessing almost an instinctive knowledge of how
mankind are to be governed. By that wonderful exposition of the comprehensive, wise, and philanthropic
mind of the man, even his enemies were subdued.

Much controversy has been spent upon the demeanour of the Duke towards his soldiers, which
has been stigmatised as cold, distant, at times harsh, and even selfish. For the charges of
coldness and distance there appears to be some foundation. Unlike Napoleon, the Duke of Wellington
never appealed to the enthusiasm of his soldiers; but he always relied upon their sense of
duty. He regarded his army, organized by discipline, as a perfect machine, upon the performance
of which he could calculate with precision, and as he never expected it to do more than it
ought, so he never looked to see it do less. The idea of duty, of absolute responsibility and
subordination from rank to rank, seems to have been that to which he was always content to
appeal. Accordingly, his troops never failed him. Their rock-like steadfastness and constant
unimpulsive bravery, it was that enabled him to carry out his plans with such certainty.

The contrast to Napoleon is no Where more seen than in the dispatches of the one and the bulletins
of the other. In his demeanour to his men, the Duke was reserved; in his language, curt and
laconic. If his troops felt the moral certainty that he was leading them to victory, and honoured
him accordingly, it was not from personal enthusiasm, such as the wild love the emperor inspired
in those around him, but from a deep respect for his character and a reliance on his talents.
Nor did he condescend to charlatantism or bombast, as his great rival too often did. There
is not the slightest trace of vanity about him. Compare the speech of the one to his army,
beneath the Pyramids, with the simple, "Up, guards, and at them!" of the other. In these trifles,
we find the key to the real minds of great men.

The political character of the Duke, and his services as a civilian, have never been sufficiently
appreciated by the great mass of his countrymen. His brilliant military reputation cast into
the shade his sterling but unobtrusive services as a senator and as a minister. It was even
the fashion, for a long time, to assert that his taking office at all was a sign of defective
judgment. Indeed, when he declared, in the House of Lords, that he would be "worse than mad
to think of such a thing," he gave a colour to the supposition. His subsequent assertion, after
he had become prime minister, that he had done so "because nobody else would," conveyed, in
all probability, the simple truth. The Duke did not know his own capacity for government, until
it was tried.

Another reason why his positive worth, as a politician, has not been so universally admitted
as his military merit, is that, in the imaginations of a large portion of the public, he has
been identified with a party. This, in a country where party spirit is so strong and so universal,
would alone be sufficient to secure his being misunderstood by all those who are not of the
party to which he is alleged to be devoted. But it is a mistake to call the Duke of Wellington
a party man; that is to say, in the ordinary sense of the word. It is true that, during the
greater part of his life he has acted with what is called the conservative party, because in
England no man can expect to serve his country efficiently, unless he enlists under some political
banner or other. But there is a great difference between acting generally with a party, and
the adoption of all its animosities and prejudices: and this difference the Duke of Wellington
appears always to have perceived and acted upon. Wherever the choice has lain between the opinions
of his party and the general good of his country, the Duke has always preferred his country
to his party; and if that is the character of a party man, may all politicians be speedily
imbued with the same sentiments!

Notwithstanding this distinction, however, it is certain that the known opinions of the Duke
of Wellington, and his ultimately taking office as the prime minister of the tory party, did
lead to the belief that he was a party man, and directed towards him all those animosities
and all that depreciating rancour which party spirit engenders, and which party tactics perpetuate;
so that during a period of some four or five years his distinguished reputation as a soldier
was obscured in the minds of many millions of his country, who,--and this remark applies more
particularly to the years 1829, 1830, and 1831,--laid themselves open to the charge of being
guilty of that meanest and basest of all crimes, ingratitude.

Happily, within the last ten years, a total change has come over the public mind. Those ill-grounded
animosities are forgotten: the long and unparalleled services of the Duke are remembered: and
a re-action, produced by a sense of shame acting upon early affections, has made him more popular,
more beloved, more admired than ever he was before.

Look at the course of business in the House of Lords during the last few years, and you will
observe that the Duke of Wellington has been the presiding spirit of that assembly. Nothing
was done--nothing could be done without him; for he carries with him the proxies of so many
of the thinking, experienced, far-seeing, influential of his countrymen.

It has been argued, that the Duke of Wellington possesses all this influence by virtue of his
leadership of a powerful party. Of course this means that any other leader of the conservatives
could possess as much, or it means nothing. It is a fallacy. The Duke of Wellington's claims
are almost entirely personal. It is to himself alone that all this silent homage is paid. Even
were he to retire from active life to-morrow, still would he be followed into his retirement
by political pupils, eager to imbibe those distillations of practical wisdom which his sagacity
extracts from his vast stores of experience.

The fundamental basis of this power is his high military reputation; though that alone could
not have secured it, unless accompanied by his firm principles and habits of observation. England
differs from France in this respect,--that while our neighbours are more ready to elevate talent
above property than we are, they are less choice as to the degree of the talent which they
exalt. But if the English once know that they possess a first-rate man, they place him from
that hour securely on an eminence, whence he may look down as from the heavens, upon wealth,
rank, blood, and every earthly distinction. The Duke of Wellington is a first-rate man; and
his countrymen acknowledge it with pride. But his mind is sui generis. His qualities are eminently
useful: he could never have condescended to be brilliant. His mind is that of iron mould that
defies alike warping, meretricious polish, or demolition.

It is a conviction of the thorough and unflinching honesty of his views and principles, and
of the clear perception, the fruitful experience, and sound practical sense which regulate
his opinions, that makes the Duke of Wellington the governing spirit in the House of Peers.
There is no man in that house, be his talents or his services what they may, whose opinion
carries so much weight with it; for there is no other man so independent of party. All the
others, however moderate their natures or honest their intentions, have been compelled to give
in at some time or other to the spirit of party. But the Duke is above party. He entered the
House of Peers with an overpowering reputation, which enabled him from the first to take high
ground. He does not need to curry favour with any man; nor does he fear to offend even the
most powerful of his supporters, when his cause is just.

But the Duke's ascendancy in the House of Peers is not to be referred to the foregoing causes
alone. Had he none of that personal influence derived from services and character to which
we have referred, his abilities and information alone would enable him to take high rank. His
claims in these respects are much, underrated by those who are opposed to him in politics.
His reasoning is so simple, clear and palpable--so much in the character of what is called
common sense--and his style of speaking so unpretending and free from ornament, that superficial
observers have set him down as a mere blunt soldier, with a few fixed ideas, and a disposition
dogmatically to insist on their adoption. This is altogether a mistake. The Duke of Wellington
has as much of the true spirit of the statesman as any man who now affects the destinies of
this country. There is scarcely a subject that has come before parliament since the commencement
of his political career into which he has not fully entered. The character of his mind is to
grasp every question. Less than mastery of it--so far as the formation of a decided opinion
according to the lights afforded to or by his mind--will not satisfy him. With the exception
of one or two questions of high constitutional principle, the "cui bono?" is the view his mind
naturally takes. He is a practical utilitarian, seeking in every measure the utmost quantity
of good of which it is capable; not always as much as he would perhaps wish to see, but as
much as circumstances allow the hope of securing.

This mode of dealing with subjects is not well calculated for oratorical display, or for the
parade of extensive information, even if the unaffected character of the Duke of Wellington
would allow him to avail himself of them. They are cast aside, in pursuit of a less brilliant,
but more useful, mode of treatment. Accordingly, the speeches of the Duke are brief, clear,
pointed, and in one sense dogmatical. After having canvassed details, and brought to bear upon
them his long and varied experience, he states his conclusions, accompanying them with the
general principles that have guided their formation, in a few brief authoritative sentences.
He is very careless about catching stray listeners, or drawing in his train the prejudiced
or the inexperienced; but rather addresses himself to those whose age and wisdom entitle them
to anticipate consequences, or to those to whom experience of the value of his opinions may
have taught a pre-disposed deference.

At other times, however--for instance, when making ministerial statements on matters connected
with finance, or foreign policy, or important changes in the law--this short, abrupt, devil-may-care
style is changed for one eminently adapted to the object. No one can then complain of a want
of the proper information. All the historical facts, or figures, or principles, or general
details, are then marshalled forward with a regularity and precision only to be equalled by
the military arrangements of the Duke. There is not a word too much or too little: you are
made thoroughly to comprehend the whole bearings of the question, without being overburthened
with the useless details that so often figure in the speeches of orators of the red-tape school.
The natural superiority of the Duke's mind is never more exhibited than in the masterly way
in which he separates the wheat from the chaff, and weaves a clear and connected statement
from masses of facts, on subjects so foreign to the military pursuits of his youth and manhood.

To many, this praise of the Duke of Wellington, in a character in which he is so little known
to the great mass of the public, will appear exaggerated; but those who have been accustomed
to observe him in the House of Peers, will not be surprised to hear the estimation in which
he is held by his political contemporaries of all parties. Those who have not heard and seen
him in his character of politician and statesman, will scarcely continue sceptical (even if
they are so), after having read the extracts contained in the following pages.

Much, however, as the independent spirit of self-reliance of the Duke, fortified by his character
and experience, has secured him sway in the House of Lords, we must not blind ourselves to
the fact, that this illustrious man has sometimes, in the assertion of his opinions (unconsciously,
we believe, and unintentionally) fallen into a practice of dogmatising, of calling on the House
of Peers and the public to adopt his views, not so much on account of reasons urged in their
support, as because they are stated by him. Rarely, however, have such instances occurred,
and in extenuation of what, in a country of free discussion, would justly be deemed a dangerous
innovation, we must bear in mind that where a man's opinions are the result of vary long experience
and very extensive observation, it is not always possible to make the general mind aware of
the process by which particular principles or views have been arrived at. The greatest men
have often been compelled to content themselves with the simple assertion of opinions not pleasing
to the multitude, and to appeal to time as the only test of their truth.

The Duke of Wellington looks to the practical common-sense bearing of every subject brought
under his notice. His first aim is the public good; his next, how to attain that good with
the least departure from established principles of policy. This practical turn of mind, joined
as it is to a far-seeing and prophetic spirit, has contributed to confirm in the minds of his
countrymen the admiration and influence which his military genius and success first created.
They repose the utmost confidence in his sagacity; he is a party in himself. Whatever is essential
to the national reputation, the welfare of the whole people, and, above all, to the stability
of property, is sure to be originated, or, at all events, warmly supported by him.

For this reason a revolution never could have occurred under the government of the Duke; he
has too intense a horror of the evils of civil contention, ever to have allowed matters to
come to that pass. This, it will be admitted, is a quality rarely to be found in a soldier,
and a soldier, too, of such an inflexible cast as the Duke. Not less intense is his regard
for national faith and honour. He would maintain the honour of the state at any expense, even
of his own personal prejudices on home politics; for the Duke, like all strong-minded men,
has his prejudices. He has vanquished, and obtained the mastery of the spirit of change, by
showing that he can curb it, while he does not affect to play the tyrant over it. He knows
when to be firm and when to yield. Many acts of the Duke of Wellington, in the course of his
political career, that have called forth unlimited censure, have been based upon calculations
which only so well-tutored and so well-stored a mind could have made.

It is an intellectual treat of the highest order to see the Duke of Wellington's demeanour
in the House of Lords. It is essentially different from that of every other man there. He is
almost the only unfettered man in the house. Others are fettered by obstacles which they create
for themselves, in various ways, by the too eager pursuit of personal or party objects. But
the Duke of Wellington's high reputation and standing place him above all such considerations.
He can afford to speak the truth, and he does speak it on all occasions fearlessly. While other
speakers, on either side of the house, have been wasting their powers in fruitless eloquence
(mere personal display), or in perverting the truth for the purpose, either of unfair attack
or unfair defence, the Duke of Wellington has appeared to be paying not the slightest attention
to the proceedings. He has sat absorbed in thought, or at least in seeming indifference. You
would almost suppose that, overcome by fatigue, or indisposition, he was sleeping, so perfectly
motionless and silent is he, reclining, with folded arms, his legs stretched out to their full
length, and his hat over his brow. The question has been discussed, argued, disputed upon for
hours. No result seems to have been come to, and you are as ignorant of the object and scope
of the measure as when the debate began; nor have you any clear idea what will become of the bill.

At length, the Duke of Wellington rises, advances abruptly to the table, wraps the tails of
his coat, like a dressing-gown, over his legs, and plunges at once in medias res. There is
an undivided attention while he speaks, indeed, it is sometimes absolutely necessary, for,
when indisposed, he is often with difficulty heard, even by those near to him, as, indeed,
he himself hears with difficulty, from being deaf on one side. But in a moment you see that
his mind is still as vigorous as ever. His keen intelligence pierces at once to the very core
of the subject; no fallacy can blind or deceive the Duke of Wellington. He knows why the measure
was introduced, what it is, what it will do, and what will become of it. He grapples with it
in the spirit of a statesman. He is a guardian of the interests of the nation; he is the parliamentary
trustee of the people; he is bound to look to their interests as a whole, for by the people
he understands, not those who bawl the loudest about their rights, but those also who trust
the maintenance of their privileges and their interests to parliament, in silent faith. He
never forgets the salus populi.

On the other hand, the chap-trap maxims of liberalism, foreign or domestic, meet from him with
just as much credence and attention as they deserve; he never allows enthusiasm to intrude
among political considerations. He measures the length, breadth, and thickness of the bill
before him; calculates with his unerring precision and practical wisdom, the effect which it
will have, either on the happiness of the people, or on the social or political constitution
of the country. According to its value for good or for evil, does the Duke of Wellington support
or oppose it; and from that hour its fate is usually decided. Why? because the unbending unflinching
honesty of the man, and his political sagacity, have created him a character unprecedented
in the annals of his country.

The Duke's style of speaking is what might be expected from his character, plain, simple, straightforward.
His sentences are short and pithy, his language clear and lucid; his delivery abrupt. When
he makes a point, it falls on the mind with the force of a sledge-hammer. His voice reminds
one of that of an officer giving the word of command; he lays emphasis, short and somewhat
harsh, on the leading words of the sentence, and speaks the rest in an under tone. Although,
however, in consequence of his age and the gradual approach of infirmity, his utterance is
not so clear as it used to be, yet you can always understand immediately his whole meaning.
He uses the plainest language of every-day colloquy. His style is impressive from its doric
simplicity. You never entertain a doubt of his sincerity; and although you may not always agree
with him in opinion, you have, at least, the satisfaction of knowing that his propositions
are the true result of his feelings or his thoughts; and are not merely put forward to answer
the purposes of party, or to secure a triumph in debate.

For the same reason, the Duke never attempts to impose on the house a fictitious enthusiasm,
or a pretended excitement. If he gets excited, (and he will sometimes get into a terrible passion
at any infringement of constitutional integrity or breach of discipline), there is no mistaking
it for a mere prepared climax to a speech; he is completely possessed by the demon. The only
action he ever uses is on such occasions, and then it is almost convulsive. His arms and legs
seem no longer to be under control, they quiver, and shake, and tremble: and the clenched fist,
violently and frequently struck upon the table, denotes that some very potent feeling of indignation
is, for the time, mastering the usual calmness of this self-possessed man.

Yet though at times he is thus carried away by his feelings, his ultimate judgment of a measure
is not impaired by it. He can cauterise or cut out the cankered part, and yet preserve all
that was not offensive to his sense of right and wrong.

Those who have read the speeches of the Duke, will have remarked the intensely British feeling
that pervades them. He is like the old Romans in his admiration and love for his country and
her institutions. The same feeling breathes in all his speeches. The same magnanimous brevity
that marked the public declarations of that haughty people, dignifies the addresses of the
Duke of Wellington. Some of his sayings, as, for instance, "that a great nation can never wage
a little war," will he embalmed in history. His denunciations are like the alarum of a war
trumpet. The same character of simplicity which marks the Duke's speeches pervades his whole
conduct, public and private. Though no man is more capable of enjoying the refinements of modern
society, luxury has not enervated his mind or his manners. His dress, his equipage, his habits,
all partake of the same indifference to effect--all have a cast of the hardy self-denial of
the camp. A mattress bed, constant horse exercise, rising with the lark, not unfrequently remaining
up twenty hours out of the twenty-four, and the daily use of cold shower baths, winter and
summer,--these contradictions to the usual habits of men, when their age approaches to fourscore,
bespeak no ordinary carelessness of ease, and a singular determination of purpose. Well, indeed,
has he been named the Iron Duke.

MAXIMS AND OPINIONS OF HIS GRACE THE DUKE OF WELLINGTON.

       *       *       *       *       *

INDIA.

To offer a public reward, by proclamation, for a man's life, and to make a secret bargain to
have it taken away, are very different things; the one is to be done, the other, in my opinion,
cannot by an officer at the head of the troops.

Dispatch, July 8, 1800.

       *       *       *       *       *

As for the wishes of the people, particularly in this country (India), I put them out of the
question. They are the only philosophers about their governors that ever I met with, if indifference
constitutes that character.

Dispatch, August 20, 1800.

       *       *       *       *       *

In military operations time is everything.

Dispatch, June 30, 1800.

Articles of provision are not to be trifled with, or left to chance; and there is nothing more
clear than that the subsistence of the troops must be certain upon the proposed service, or
the service must be relinquished.

Dispatch, Feb. 18, 1801.

       *       *       *       *       *

Indignant rejection of a proffered Bribe.

You inform me that the Rajah, or Dessaye of Kittoor, has expressed a wish to be taken under
the protection of the British Government; and has offered to pay a tribute to the company,
and to give you a bribe of 4000 pagodas, and me one of 10,000 pagodas, provided this point
is arranged according to his wishes.

I cannot conceive what can have induced the Rajah of Kittoor to imagine that I was capable
of receiving that or any other sum of money, as an inducement to do that which he must think
improper, or he would not have offered it. But I shall advert to that point more particularly
presently.

The Rajah of Kittoor is a tributary of the Mahratta Government, the head of which is an ally,
by treaty, of the honourable company. It would be, therefore, to the full as proper, that any
officer in command of a post within the company's territories, should listen to and enter into
a plan for seizing part of the Mahratta territories, as it is for you to listen and encourage
an offer from the Rajah of Kittoor to accept the protection of, and transfer his allegiance
and tribute to the honourable company's government. In case you should hear anything further
upon this subject from the Rajah of Kittoor, or in future from any of the chiefs of the Mahrattas
on the frontier, I desire that you will tell them what is the fact, that you have no authority
whatever to listen to such proposals, that you have orders only to keep up with them the usual
intercourse of civility and friendship, and that if they have any proposals of that kind to
make, they must be made in a proper manner to our superiors. You may, at the same time, inform
them that you have my authority to say that the British government is very little likely to
take advantage of the misfortunes of its ally, to deprive him, either of his territories or
of the allegiance or tribute due to him by his tributaries.

In respect to the bribe offered to you and myself, I am surprised that any man in the character
of a British officer should not have given the Rajah to understand that the offer would be
considered as an insult; and that he should not have forbidden its renewal, than that he should
have encouraged it, and even offered to receive a quarter of the sum proposed to be given him
for prompt payment. I can attribute your conduct on this occasion, to nothing excepting the
most inconsiderate indiscretion, and to a desire to benefit yourself, which got the better
of your prudence. I desire, however, that you will refrain from the subject with the Rajah
of Kittoor at all, and that if he should renew it, you will inform him, that I and all British
officers consider such offers as insults on the part of them by whom made.

Letter to an officer in India, January 20, 1803.

Principle of Warfare in India.

We must get the upper hand, and if once we have that, we shall keep it with ease, and shall
certainly succeed. But if we begin by a long defensive warfare, and go looking after convoys
that are scattered over the face of the earth, and do not attack briskly, we shall soon be
in distress.

Dispatch, Aug. 17, 1803.

       *       *       *       *       *

How to avoid Party Spirit in the Army.

It occurs to me that there is much party in the army in your quarter; this must be put an end
to. And there is only one mode of effecting this, and that is for the commanding officer to
be of no side excepting that of the public; to employ indiscriminately those who can best serve
the public, be they who they may, or in whatever service; the consequence will be that the
service will go on, all parties will join in forwarding it, and in respecting him; there will
be an end to their petty disputes about trifles; and the commanding officer will be at the
head of an army instead of a party.

Letter to an officer, Sept. 16, 1803.

       *       *       *       *       *

The power of the Sword necessary in India.

It is necessary that the political agents at the durbars of the native princes should be supposed
to have a considerable degree of power. In this part of the world there is no power excepting
that of the sword; and it follows that if these political agents have no authority over the
military, they have no power whatever.

The natives would soon find out this state of weakness, and the residents would lose their
influence over their councils. It may be argued if that is the case, the military commanding
officer ought to be the resident, or political agent. In answer to this argument, I say, that
the same reasoning applies to every part of the executive government; and that, upon this ground,
the whole ought to be in the hands of the military. In short, the only conclusion to be drawn
from all reflection and reasoning upon the subject is, that the British government in India
is a phenomenon; and that it will not answer to apply to it, in its present state, either the
rules which guide other governments, or the reasoning upon which these rules are founded.

Dispatch, Oct. 13, 1803.

       *       *       *       *       *

Reason for the ambiguity of Treaties.

It is impossible to frame a treaty of peace in such a manner as to find in it a decision of
all questions which can arise between the parties concerned; particularly when the parties
have frequently been at war, and have preserved a recollection of a variety of contradictory
claims arising out of the events of their wars, which they are ready to bring forward on all
occasions.

Dispatch, Jan. 7, 1804.

Foundation of British Power in India in 1803.

The British government has been left by the late Mahratta war in a most glorious situation.
They are the sovereigns of a great part of India, the protectors of the principal powers, and
the mediators by treaty of the disputes of all. The sovereignty they possess is greater, and
their power is settled upon more permanent foundations, than any before known in India; all
it wants is the popularity which, from the nature of the institutions and the justice of the
proceedings of the government, it is likely to obtain, and which it must obtain, after a short
period of tranquillity shall have given the people time and opportunity to feel the happiness
and security which they enjoy.

Dispatch, Jan. 16, 1804.

       *       *       *       *       *

British "Moderation" in India.

I declare that, when I view the treaty of peace,[2] and its consequences, I am afraid it will
be imagined that the moderation of the British government in India has a strong resemblance
to the ambition of other governments.

[Footnote 2: After the Mahratta war.]

Jan. 29, 1804.

       *       *       *       *       *

Contrast between European and Asiatic Policy.

European governments were, till very lately, guided by certain rules and systems of policy
so accurately defined and generally known, that it was scarcely possible to suppose a political
event, in which the interest and conduct of each state would not be as well known to the corps
diplomatique, in general, as to the statesmen of each particular state. The Asiatic governments
do not acknowledge, and hardly know of, such rules and systems. Their governments are arbitrary;
the objects of their policy are always shifting; they have no regular established system, the
effect of which is to protect the weak against the strong; on the contrary, the object of each
of them separately, and of all of them taken collectively, is to destroy the weak; and if by
chance, they should, by a sense of common danger, be induced for a season to combine their
efforts for their mutual defence, the combination lasts only so long as it is attended with
success; the first reverse dissolves it; and, at all events, it is dissolved long before the
danger ceases, the apprehension of which originally caused it. The company's government in
India, the other contracting party to their alliance, is one bound by all the rules and systems
of European policy. The company's power in India is supposed to depend much upon its reputation;
and although I do not admit that it depends upon its reputation, as distinguished from its
real force, as appears to be contended by some, I may say that it is particularly desirable
for a government, so constituted as the company's, never to enter upon any particular object,
the probable result of which should not be greatly in favour of success.

Besides this, the company's government in India is bound by acts of parliament not to undertake
wars of aggression, not to make any but defensive alliances, and those only in cases in which
the other contracting party shall bind itself to defend the possessions of the company actually
threatened with hostilities.

The company's government in India is also connected with his majesty's government, and, as
an Asiatic power, is liable to be involved in wars with European powers possessing territories
in India, whenever his majesty shall be at war with those powers.

The picture above drawn of the state of politics among Asiatic powers, proves that no permanent
system can be adopted which will preserve the weak against the strong, and will keep all for
any length of time in their relative situations, and the whole in peace; excepting there should
be one power, which, either by the superiority of its strength, its military system, or its
resources, shall preponderate, and be able to protect all.

1804.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is necessary for a man who fills a public situation, and who has great public interests
in charge, to lay aside all private considerations, whether on his own account or that of other
persons.

March 2, 1804.

       *       *       *       *       *

When war is concluded, all animosity should be forgotten.

March 12, 1804.

The British character for good faith must be preserved in India.

I would sacrifice Gwalior, or every portion of India, ten times over, in order to preserve
our credit for scrupulous good faith, and the advantages and honour we gained by the late war
and the peace: and we must not fritter them away in arguments, drawn from overstrained principles
of the laws of nations, which are not understood in this country. What brought me through many
difficulties in the war, and the negociations for peace? The British good faith, and nothing else.

Dispatch, March 17, 1804.

       *       *       *       *       *

Civil Government in India must follow immediately on Military Conquest.

I rather think that you and the Governor-General agree in opinion on the subject of the affairs
of Malabar. He says, "examine and report the state of the province before you commence your
military operations; define the evils, and propose a system of government which shall afford
a remedy, towards the establishment of which system military operations may be directed."

It would be useless to commence military operations upon any great scale, unless the civil
officers should be prepared to take possession of the country, and to re-establish the civil
government as the troops shall conquer it. If the civil government were not re-established
in this manner, the rebels would rise again as soon as the troops would pass through the districts;
and the effect of the operations of a large body of troops would be much the same as that of
a small body. But if the civil government is to be re-established in this manner, it would
be better to establish that system which is found to be good, and is to be permanent, than
that which is known to be had, and which is intended should not last. Supposing that the bad
system were first introduced, it must be followed afterwards by the good one; and, supposing
that the bad system did not produce a rebellion of itself (which I acknowledge I do not think
it would, as rebellion in Malabar is to be traced to causes entirely independent of all systems
of civil government, excepting as they are connected with a strong or weak military force),
the change from the bad to the good system would produce a degree of convulsion, and, possibly,
momentary weakness, which it is always desirable to avoid. It is particularly desirable to
avoid it in this instance, as it will not be difficult, by an examination of all that has passed
in Malabar, to fix upon the general principles according to which that province ought to be
governed, and to form a system accordingly, in the time which must elapse before the troops
can he employed in settling the province.

March 20, 1804.

       *       *       *       *       *

Principle of Relief to the Poor.

The principle, of the mode in which I propose to relieve the distresses of the inhabitants,
is not to give grain or money in charity.

Those who suffer from famine may properly be divided into two classes: those who can, and those
who cannot, work. In the latter class may be included old persons, children, and the sick women;
who, from their former situation in life, have been unaccustomed to labour, and are weakened
by the effects of famine.

The former, viz., those of both sexes who can work, ought to be employed by the public; and
in the course of this letter I shall point out the work on which I should wish that they might
be employed, and in what manner paid. The latter, viz., those who cannot work, ought to be
taken into an hospital and fed, and receive medical aid and medicine at the expense of the public.

According to this mode of proceeding, subsistence will be provided for all; the public will
receive some benefit from the expense which will be incurred, and, above all, it will be certain,
that no able-bodied person will apply for relief, unless he should be unwilling to work for
his subsistence, that none will apply who are able to work, and who are not real objects of
charity; and that none will come to Ahmednuggur for the purpose of partaking of the food which
must be procured by the labour, or to obtain which they must submit to the restraint of an
hospital.

Dispatch, April 11, 1804.

       *       *       *       *       *

Tactics to be pursued against Predatory Troops.

I have served a good deal in this part of India against this description of freebooter; and
I think that the best mode of operating, is to press him with one or two corps capable of moving
with tolerable celerity, and of such strength as to render the result of an action by no means
doubtful, if he should venture to risk one. There is but little hope, it is true, that he will
risk an action, or that any one of these corps will come up with him. The effect to be produced
by this mode of operation is to oblige him to move constantly, and with great celerity. When
reduced to this necessity, he cannot venture to stop to plunder the country, and he does comparatively
but little mischief; at all events the subsistence of his army becomes difficult and precarious,
the horsemen become dissatisfied, and they perceive that their situation is hopeless, and they
desert in numbers daily; the freebooter ends by having with him only a few adherents, and he
is reduced to such a state as to be liable to be taken by any small body of country horse,
which are the fittest troops to be then employed against him.

In proportion as the body of our troops, to be employed against a freebooter of this description,
have the power of moving with celerity, will such freebooter be distressed. Whenever the largest
and most formidable bodies of them are hard pressed by our troops, the village people attack
them upon their rear and flanks, cut off stragglers, and will not allow a man to enter their
villages; because their villages being in some degree fortified, they know well that the freebooters
dare not wait the time which would be necessary to reduce them. When this is the case, all
their means of subsistence vanish, no resource remains excepting to separate, and even this
resource is attended by risk, as the village people cut them off on their way to their homes.

Dispatch, May 27, 1804.

       *       *       *       *       *

Importance of Secresy in Public Affairs.

There is nothing more certain than that of one hundred affairs ninety-nine might be posted
up at the market-cross, without injury to the public interests; but the misfortune is that
where the public business is the subject of general conversation, and is not kept a secret,
as a matter of course, upon every occasion, it is very difficult to keep it secret upon that
occasion on which it is necessary. There is an awkwardness in a secret which enables discerning
men (of which description there are always plenty in an army) invariably to find it out; and
it may be depended upon that, whenever the public business ought to be kept secret, it always
suffers when it is exposed to public view. For this reason secresy is always best; and those
who have been long trusted with the conduct of public affairs are in the habit of never making
known public business of any description that it is not necessary that the public should know.
The consequence is that secresy becomes natural to them, and as much a habit as it is to others
to talk of public matters; and they have it in their power to keep things secret or not, as
they may think proper.

Remember that what I recommend to you is far removed from mystery; in fact, I recommend silence
upon the public business upon all occasions, in order to avoid the necessity of mystery upon any.

Dispatch, June 28, 1804.

       *       *       *       *       *

In all retreats, it must be recollected that they are safe and easy, in proportion to the number
of attacks made by the retreating corps.

Dispatch, Sept. 12, 1804.

       *       *       *       *       *

Neglect of his Services in India.

In regard to staying longer (in the Deccan), the question is exactly whether the court of directors,
or the king's ministers, have any claim upon me, strong enough to induce me to do anything
so disagreeable to my feelings (leaving health out of the question) as to remain, for a great
length of time, in this country. I have served the company in important situations for many
years, and have never received anything but injury from the court of directors, although I
am a singular instance of an officer who has served under all governments, and in communication
with all the political residents, and many civil authorities; and there is not an instance
on record, or in any private correspondence, of disapprobation of any of my acts, or a single
complaint, or even a symptom of ill-temper from any one of the political or civil authorities
in communication with whom I have acted. The king's ministers have as little claim upon me
as the court of directors. I am not very ambitious, and I acknowledge that I never have been
very sanguine in my expectations that military services in India would be considered in the
scale in which are considered similar services in other parts of the world. But I might have
expected to be placed on the staff in India; and yet if it had not been for the lamented death
of General Fraser, General Smith's arrival would have made me supernumerary. This is perfectly
well known to the army, and is the subject of a good deal of conversation.

Jan. 4, 1805.

       *       *       *       *       *

I mistrust the judgment of every man in a case in which his own wishes are concerned.

Feb. 3, 1805.

       *       *       *       *       *

Advice to a Native Ruler in India.

Let the prosperity of the country be your great object; protect the ryots and traders, and
allow no man, whether invested with authority or not, to oppress them with impunity. Do justice
to every man.

March 2, 1805.

       *       *       *       *       *

Without distinction of religion every man ought to be called upon to do service to the state,
wherever he is particularly qualified to do that service.

House of Commons, May 11, 1808.

Control of the Navy and Army.

The navy is the characteristic and constitutional force of Britain, and may therefore be governed
by regulations of the legislature; but the army is a new force, arising out of the extraordinary
exigencies of modern times, and from every consideration of expediency and necessity, must
be left under the control of the crown.

House of Commons, June 3, 1808.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Law-breaker always Wrong.

It frequently happens that the people who do commit outrages and disturbances have some reason
to complain; but he who breaks the law must be considered in the wrong, whatever may have been,
the nature of the provocation which he has received.[3]

[Footnote 3: This remark, though it applies generally, was made with respect to Ireland.]

Ibid, July 7, 1808.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PENINSULA.

The Battle of Vimeiro.

The action of Vimeiro is the only one I have ever been in (1808), in which everything passed
as was directed, and no mistake was made by any of the officers charged with its conduct.

Dispatch, Aug. 22, 1806.

       *       *       *       *       *

Distinction between Civil and Military Responsibility.

There is a great distinction of duty between military and civil inferior situations. If, in
a civil officer, the inferior differs materially from the superior, he ought to resign, but
in military appointments, it is the duty of the inferior officer to assist his commander in
the mode in which that commander may deem his services most advantageous.

Defence of his conduct with regard to the Convention of Cintra. House of Commons, Feb. 21, 1809.

       *       *       *       *       *

Rapidity of the French Retreats accounted for.

It is obvious, that if an army throws away all its cannon, equipments, and baggage, and everything
which can strengthen it, and can enable it to act together as a body; and abandons all those
who are entitled to its protection, but add to its weight and impede its progress;[4] it must
be able to march by roads through which it cannot be followed, with any prospect of being overtaken
by an army which has not made the same sacrifice.

[Footnote 4: Alluding to the rapidity of the French retreat.]

Dispatch, May 18, 1809.

       *       *       *       *       *

I have long been of opinion that a British army could bear neither success nor failure.[5]

[Footnote 5: Referring to their habits of plunder.]

Dispatch, May 31, 1809.

       *       *       *       *       *

Inefficiency of Spanish Officers.

Nothing can be worse than the officers of the Spanish army, and it is extraordinary that when
a nation has devoted itself to war, as this nation has by the measures which it has adopted
in the last two years, so little progress has been made in any one branch of the military profession
by any individual, and that the business of an army should be so little understood. They are
really children in the art of war, and I cannot say they do anything as it ought to be done,
with the exception of running away, and assembling again in a state of nature.

Dispatch, Aug. 1809.

       *       *       *       *       *

Terrorism and Force, not Enthusiasm, enabled the French Revolutionary Armies to conquer.

People are very apt to believe that enthusiasm carried the French through their revolution,
and was the parent of those exertions which have nearly conquered the world; but if the subject
is nicely examined, it will be found that enthusiasm was the name only, but that force was
the instrument which brought forward those great resources under the system of terror which
first stopped the allies; and that a perseverance in the same system of applying every individual
and every description of property to the service of the army, by force, has since conquered Europe.

Dispatch, Aug. 25, 1809.

The Spaniards and Portuguese want the true spirit of Soldiers.

We are mistaken if we believe that what these Portuguese and Spanish armies require is discipline,
properly so called.

Dispatch, Sept. 8, 1809.

       *       *       *       *       *

Importance of good understanding between Negotiating Parties.

Half the business of the world, particularly that of our country, is done by accommodation,
and by the parties understanding each other, but when rights are claimed they must be resisted,
if there are no grounds for them; when appeal must be made to higher powers there can be no
accommodation, and much valuable time is lost in reference which ought to be spent in action.

Dispatch, Sept. 20, 1809.

       *       *       *       *       *

Popular Assemblies unmanageable.

I acknowledge that I have a great dislike to a new popular assembly; even our own ancient one
would be quite unmanageable, and in three days, would ruin us, if the present generation had
not before its eyes the example of the French revolution; and if there were not certain rules
and orders for its guidance and government, the knowledge and use of which render safe, and
successfully direct, its proceedings.

Dispatch, Sept. 22, 1809.

       *       *       *       *       *

Distracted State of Spain.

I declare that if I were in Buonaparte's situation, I should leave the English and the Cortes
to settle Spain in the best manner they could; and I should entertain very little doubt but
that in a very short space of time Spain must fall into the hands of France. At the same time
I must agree with you in thinking that affairs are now in so desperate a situation that they
cannot be worse; that there is a real want of men of common capacity in Spain, in whose hands
any form of government, intended for vigorous action, could be placed with any hope that their
powers could he used to the public advantage; and that the Cortes, with all their faults, and
the dangers attendant upon such an assembly, will have at least this advantage, that they will
have the confidence of the country, and the prejudices of their countrymen of the lower class
in our favour, and against France; the remark being perfectly well founded, that there is no
prejudice or jealousy of us any where in Spain excepting by the government.

But in order to enjoy common safety under such an assembly as the Spanish Cortes, the rules
and orders for their proceedings and internal government ought to be well defined, and to be,
if possible, a part of the constitution of the assembly. Great care should also be taken in
their formation to protect them from the effects of popular fury in the place of their sitting;
but still with all these precautions I should prefer a wise Bourbon, if we could find one,
for a regent, to the Cortes.

Dispatch, Sept. 22, 1809.

       *       *       *       *       *

Whatever may be eventually the fate of Spain, Portugal must be a military country.

Dispatch, Sept. 24, 1809.

       *       *       *       *       *

Military Value of an Armed and Friendly People.

In respect to the army and armament of the people in Spain and Portugal, there is no man more
aware than I am of the advantage to be derived from these measures; and if I had not reflected
well upon the subject, my experience of the war in Portugal and in Spain--(in Portugal, where
the people are in some degree armed and arrayed; and in Spain, where they are not)--would have
shewn me the advantage which an army has against the enemy when the people are armed and arrayed,
and are on its side in the contest. But reflection, and, above all, experience have shewn me
the exact extent of this advantage in a military point of view; and I only beg that those who
have to contend with the French, will not be diverted from the business of raising, arming,
equipping, and training regular bodies, by any notion that the people, when armed and arrayed,
will be of, I will not say any, but of much use to them.

Dispatch, Oct. 11, 1809.

       *       *       *       *       *

Difficulties in the Peninsular War. The Battle of Talavera.

You will have heard of all that has passed in this country, and I will not therefore trouble
you with a repetition of the story. The battle of Talevera was certainly the hardest fought
of modern days, and the most glorious in its results to our troops. Each side engaged lost
a quarter of their numbers.

It is lamentable that, owing to the miserable inefficiency of the Spaniards, to their want
of exertion, and the deficiency of numbers, even, of the allies, much more of discipline and
every other military quality, when compared with the enemy in the Peninsula, the glory of the
action is the only benefit we have derived from it. But that is a solid and substantial benefit,
of which we have derived some good consequences already; for, strange to say, I have contrived
with the little British army to keep everything in check since the month of August last; and
if the Spaniards had not contrived, by their own folly and against my entreaties and remonstrances,
to lose an army in La Mancha about a fortnight ago, I think we might have brought them through
the contest; as it is, however, I do not despair. I have in hand a most difficult task, from
which I may not extricate myself; but I must not shrink from it, I command an unanimous army;
I draw well with all the authorities in Spain and Portugal; and I believe I have the good wishes
of the whole world. In such circumstances, one may fail, but it would be dishonourable to shrink
from the task.

Letter to Col. Malcome, Dec. 3, 1809.

       *       *       *       *       *

Buonaparte's System Hollow.

The Austrian marriage is a terrible event, and must prevent any great movement on the continent
for the present. Still I do not despair of seeing, at some time or other, a check to the Buonaparte
system. Recent transactions in Holland shew that it is all hollow within; and that it is so
inconsistent with the wishes, the interests, and even the existence of civilized society, that
he cannot trust even his brothers to carry it into execution.

Dispatch, April 4, 1810.

       *       *       *       *       *

Military Law the will of the General.

Military law, as applied to any persons excepting the officers, soldiers, and followers of
the army, for whose government there are particular provisions of law in all well regulated
countries, is neither more nor less than the will of the general of the army. He punishes either
with or without trial, for crimes either declared to be so, or not so declared, by any existing
law, or by his own orders. This is the plain and common meaning of the term military law. Besides
the mode of proceeding above described, laws have been made in different countries at different
times to establish and legalize a description of military constitution.

The commander-in-chief, or the government, has been authorized to proceed by military process--that
is, by court martial or council of war--against persons offending against certain laws, or
against their own orders, issued generally for the security of the army; or for the establishment
of a certain government or constitution odious to the people among whom it is established.

Of both descriptions of military law, there are numerous instances in the history of the operations
of the French army during the revolution; and there is an instance of the existence both of
the first-mentioned description and of the last-mentioned in Ireland, during the rebellion
of 1798, when the people were in insurrection against the government, and were to be restrained
by force.

Dispatch, April 19, 1810.

       *       *       *       *       *

Letter to a Portuguese of Rank on the Position and Duties of Persons in his station.

I have received your letter containing a complaint against----, of the quarter-master general's
department, that he had ill-treated one of your servants, into which I shall make inquiry,
and let you know the result.

It is impossible, however, for me to interfere in any manner with a billet, given by the magistrates
of Coimbra, for an officer and his family to be quartered in your house. I must at the same
time inform you, that I am not a little surprised that a person of your rank and station, and
quality in the country, should object to give accommodation in your house, and should make
a complaint of this officer, that he had asked you for additional accommodation, when it appears
by the letter which you enclosed, and which I now return, that when you objected to give him
this additional accommodation for which he asked, he acquiesced in your objection, and did
not any longer require this accommodation.

The unfortunate situation in which Portugal is placed, and the desire of the insatiable enemy
of mankind to force this once happy and loyal people to submit to his iron yoke, to plunder
them of their properties to destroy their religion and to deprive them of their monarch, has
rendered it necessary to collect in this country a large army, in order, if possible, to defeat
and frustrate the designs of the enemy. It is the duty of those whose age, whose sex, or whose
profession, do not permit them to take an active part in the defence of their country, to assist
those employed in its defence with provisions, lodgings for officers and troops, means of transport,
&c., and at all events not to oppose themselves to the granting of this description of assistance.
These duties are more particularly incumbent upon the rich and high in station, who would be
the first victims of, and greatest sufferers from, the enemy's success, unless, indeed, they
should be of the number of those traitors who are aiding to introduce the common enemy into
the country, to destroy its happiness and independence.

Under these circumstances I am not a little astonished to receive these frivolous and manifestly
unfounded complaints from you, and that you should be the person to set the example of objecting
to give quarters to an officer, because he is married and has children.

It is not very agreeable to anybody to have strangers quartered in his house; nor is it very
agreeable to us strangers, who have good houses in our own country, to be obliged to seek for
quarters here. We are not here for our pleasure; the situation of your country renders it necessary:
and you, a man of family and fortune, who have much to lose, should not be the first to complain
of the inconvenience of our presence in the country.

I do everything in my power to alleviate the inconvenience which all must suffer. We pay extravagant
prices with unparalleled punctuality for everything we receive; and I make it a rule to inquire
into and redress every injury that is really done by the troops under my command, as I shall
that to which I have above referred, of which you complain, in the conduct of----towards your
servant.

Dispatch, August 23, 1810.

       *       *       *       *       *

Croaking Spirit in the British Army in Portugal.

It appears that you have had a good smart contest with the government respecting our plan of
operations. They will end in forcing me to quit them, and then they will see how they will
get on. They will then find that I alone keep things in their present state. Indeed the temper
of some of the officers of the British army gives me more concern than the folly of the Portuguese
government. I have always been accustomed to have the confidence and support of the officers
of the armies which I have commanded; but for the first time, whether owing to the opposition
in England, or whether the magnitude of the concern is too much for their minds and their nerves,
or whether I am mistaken and they are right, I cannot tell; but there is a system of croaking
in the army which is highly injurious to the public service, and which I must devise some means
to put an end to, or it will put an end to us. Officers have a right to form their own opinions
upon events and transactions, but officers of high rank or situation ought to keep their opinions
to themselves; if they do not approve of the system of operations of their commander, they
ought to withdraw from the army. And this is a point to which I must bring some, if I should
not find that their own good sense prevents them from going on as they have done lately. Believe
me that if any body else, knowing what I do, had commanded the army, they would now have been
in Lisbon, if not, in their ships.

Dispatch, September 11, 1810.

Note--This passage from a letter to the British minister at Lisbon is one of many, which explain
the difficulties Lord Wellington had to encounter from the Portuguese Government, from the
opposition and the press in England, and from the want of proper military spirit in his own
officers.

Conduct of the Portuguese.

If we are to go on as we have hitherto; if Great Britain is to give large subsidies, and to
expend large sums in the support of a cause in which these most interested sit by and take
no part; and those at the head of the government, with laws and power to force the people to
exertion in the critical circumstances in which the country is placed, are aware of the evil,
but neglect their duty and omit to put the laws into execution, I must believe their professions
to be false; that they look to a little dirty popularity instead of to save their country;
that they are unfaithful servants to their master, and persons in whom his allies can place
no confidence.

Oct. 28, 1810.

       *       *       *       *       *

The National Disease of Spain.

The national disease of Spain, that is, boasting of the strength and power of the Spanish nation,
till they are seriously convinced that they are in no danger, then sitting down quietly and
indulging their national indolence.

Dec. 2, 1810.

       *       *       *       *       *

Apathy of the Portuguese.

There exists in the people of Portugal, an unconquerable love of their ease, which is superior
even to their fear and detestation of the enemy. Neither will they, or their magistrates, or
the government, see that the temporary indulgence of this passion for tranquillity must occasion
the greatest misfortunes to the state and hardships to the individuals themselves; and no person
in the country likes to have his tranquillity and habits disturbed for any purpose, however
important, or to be the instrument of disturbing those of others. Thus every arrangement is
defeated, and every order disobeyed with impunity. The magistrate will not force the inhabitants
to adopt a measure, however beneficial to the state and himself, which will disturb his old
habits; and the government will not force the magistrate to do that which will be disagreeable
to him and to the people: thus we shall go on till the end of time.

January 3, 1811.

       *       *       *       *       *

Takes no Notice of Newspapers.

I hope that the opinions of the people in Great Britain are not influenced by paragraphs in
newspapers, and that those paragraphs do not convey the public opinion or sentiment upon any
subject: therefore I (who have more reason than any other public man of the present day to
complain of libels of this description) never take the smallest notice of them; and have never
authorized any contradiction to be given, or any statement to be made in answer to the innumerable
falsehoods, and the heaps of false reasoning, which have been published respecting me and the
operations which I have directed.

January 7, 1811.

Indolence of the Natives of the Peninsula.

There is something very extraordinary in the nature of the people of the Peninsula. I really
believe them, those of Portugal particularly, to be the most loyal and best disposed, and the
most cordial haters of the French, that ever existed; but there is an indolence and a want
even of the power of exertion in their disposition and habits, either for their own security,
that of their country, or of their allies, which baffle all our calculations and efforts.

January 16, 1811.

       *       *       *       *       *

Different Constitution of the French and English Armies.

It may also be asked why should we spend our money, and why these troops should not go on as
the French troops do, without pay, provisions, magazines, or any thing? The French army is
certainly a wonderful machine; but if we are to form such a one, we must form such a government
as exists in France, which can with impunity lose one-half of the troops employed in the field
every year, only by the privations and hardships imposed upon them. Next, we most compose our
army of soldiers drawn from all classes of the population of the country; from the good and
middling, as well as in rank as education, as from the bad; and not as all other nations do,
and we in particular, from the bad only. Thirdly, we must establish such a system of discipline
as the French have; a system founded on the strength of the tyranny of the government, which
operates upon an army composed of soldiers, the majority of whom are sober, well disposed,
amenable to order, and in some degree educated.

When we shall have done all this, and shall have made these armies of the strength of those
employed by the French, we may require of them to live as the French do, viz., by authorised
and regular plunder of the country and its inhabitants, if any should remain; and we may expose
them to the labour, hardships and privations which the French soldier suffers every day; and
we must expect the same proportion of loss every campaign, viz., one-half of those who take field.

January 26, 1811.

       *       *       *       *       *

Character of the Marques de la Romana.

In him the Spanish army have lost their brightest ornament, his country their most upright
patriot, and the world the most strenuous and zealous defender of the cause in which we are
engaged; and I shall always acknowledge with gratitude the assistance which I received from
him, as well by his operations as by his counsel, since he had been joined with this army.

January 26, 1811.

       *       *       *       *       *

None but the worst men enter the Army as Privates.

In respect to recruiting the army, my own opinion is, that the government have never taken
an enlarged view of the subject. It is expected that people will become soldiers in the line,
and leave their families to starve, when, if they become soldiers in the militia, their families
are provided for. This is an inconsistency that must strike the mind of even the least reflecting
of mankind. What is the consequence? That none but the worst description of men enter the regular
service.

       *       *       *       *       *

But admitting the truth of the expense, I say that the country has not a choice between army
and no army, between peace or war. They must have a large and efficient army, one capable of
meeting the enemy abroad, or they must expect to meet him at home; and then farewell to all
considerations of measures of greater or lesser expense, and to the ease, the luxury, and happiness
of England. God forbid that I should see the day on which hostile armies should contend within
the United Kingdom; but I am very certain that I shall not only see that day, but shall be
a party in the contest, unless we alter our system, and the public feel in time the real nature
of the contest in which we are at present engaged, and determine to meet its expense. I have
gone a little beyond the question of recruiting; but depend upon it that you will get men when
you provide for the families of soldiers in the line and not in the militia, and not before.

January 28, 1811.

Buonaparte's "disgusting Tyranny."

I am glad to hear such good accounts of affairs in the North. God send that they may prove
true, and that we may overthrow this disgusting tyranny: however, of this I am certain, that
whether true or not at present, something of the kind must occur before long, and, if we can
only hold out, we shall yet see the world relieved.

March 23, 1811.

       *       *       *       *       *

A French army in England would be the consequence of our withdrawal from the Peninsula.

I shall be sorry if government should think themselves under the necessity of withdrawing from
this country, on account of the expense of the contest. From what I have seen of the objects
of the French government, and the sacrifices they make to accomplish them, I have no doubt
that if the British army were for any reason to withdraw from the Peninsula, and the French
government were relieved from the pressure of military operations on the Continent, they would
incur all risks to land an army in his majesty's dominions. Then indeed would commence an expensive
contest; then his majesty's subjects discover what are the miseries of war, of which, by the
blessing of God, they have hitherto had no knowledge; and the cultivation, the beauty, and
prosperity of the country, and the virtue and happiness of its inhabitants, would be destroyed:
whatever might be the result of the military operations; God forbid that I should be a witness,
much less an actor, in the scene.[6]

[Footnote 6: At this time the clamours of the opposition regarding the expense of the war induced
a fear that the government might determine to discontinue it.]

March 23, 1811.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Peninsular Governments must not mind unpopularity.

I recommend to them (the Spaniards and Portuguese) to advert seriously to the nature of the
task which they have to perform. Popularity, however desirable it may be to individuals, will
not form, or feed, or pay an army; will not enable it to march and fight; will not keep it
in a state of efficiency for long and arduous services. The resources which a wise government
must find for these objects must be drawn from the people, not by measures which will render
those unpopular who undertake to govern a country in critical circumstances, but by measures
which must for a moment have a contrary effect. The enthusiasm of the people in favour of any
individual never saved any country. They must be obliged by the restraint of law and regulation,
to do those things and to pay those contributions, which are to enable the government to carry
on this necessary contest.

April 9, 1811.

       *       *       *       *       *

Coolness in action, not headlong bravery, is required in the Army.

The desire to be forward in engaging the enemy is not uncommon in the British array; but that
quality which I wish to see the officers possess, who are at the head of the troops, is a cool,
discriminating judgment in action, which will enable them to decide with promptitude how far
they can and ought to go, with propriety; and to convey their orders, and act with such vigour
and decision, that the soldiers will look up to them with confidence in the moment of action,
and obey them with alacrity.

May 15, 1811.

       *       *       *       *       *

The battle of Albuera one of the most glorious in the War.

You will have heard of the Marshal's (Beresford) action on the 16th. The fighting was desperate,
and the loss of the British has been very severe; but, adverting to the nature of the contest,
and the manner in which they held their ground against all the efforts the whole French army
could make against them, notwithstanding all the losses which they had sustained, I think this
action one of the most glorious, and honourable to the character of the troops, of any that
has been fought during the war.

May 20, 1811.

       *       *       *       *       *

Portuguese Troops, better than Spanish.

What a pity it is that the Spaniards will not set to work seriously to discipline their troops!
We do what we please now with the Portuguese troops; we manoeuvre them under fire equally with
our own, and have some dependence on them; but these Spaniards can do nothing but stand still,
and we consider ourselves fortunate if they do not run away.

May 25, 1811.

       *       *       *       *       *

Disorganized state of the Peninsular Governments.

Those unfortunate governments in the Peninsula have been reduced to such a state of decrepitude,
that I believe there was no authority existing within Spain or Portugal before the French invaded
these countries. The French invasion did not improve this state of things; and, since what
is called in Spain the revolution, and in Portugal the restoration, no crime that I know of
has been punished in either, excepting that of being a French partisan. Those malversations
in office--those neglects of duty; the disobedience of orders; the inattention to regulation,
which tend to defeat all plans for military operation, and ruin a state that is involved in
war, more certainly than the plots of all the French partisans, are passed unnoticed; and,
notwithstanding the numerous complaints which Marshal Beresford and I have made, I do not know
that one individual has yet been punished, or even dismissed from his office. The cause of
this evil is the mistaken principle on which the government have proceeded. They have imagined
that the best foundation for their power was a low, vulgar popularity; the evidence is the
shouts of the mob of Lisbon, and the regular attendance at their levees, and the bows and scrapes
of people in office, who ought to have other modes of spending their time; and to obtain this
babble the government of Portugal, as well as the successive governments in Spain, have neglected
to perform those essential duties of all governments, viz., to force those they are placed
over to do their duty, by which, before this time, these countries would have been out of danger.

The other evil is connected very materially with the first. The government will not regulate
their finances, because it will interfere with some man's job. They will not lay on new taxes,
because in all countries those who lay on taxes are not favourites with the mob. They have
a general income-tax, called 10 per cent., and, in some cases, 20 per cent., which they have
regulated in such a manner as that no individual, I believe, has paid a hundredth part of what
he ought to have paid. Then, for want of money, they can pay nobody, and, of course, have not
the influence which they ought to have over the subordinate departments.

In addition to embarrassments of all descriptions surrounding us on all sides, I have to contend
with an ancient enmity between these two nations, which is more like that of cat and dog than
anything else, of which no sense of common danger, or common interest, or anything, can get
the better, even in individuals.

June 12, 1811.

To write an anonymous letter is the meanest action of which any man can be guilty.

Dispatch, July 3, 1811.

       *       *       *       *       *

British Officers, as well at Soldiers, require to be kept in order.

I must also observe that British officers require to be kept in order, as well as the soldiers
under their command, particularly in a foreign service. The experience which I have had of
their conduct in the Portuguese service has shown me that there must be authority, and that
a strong one, to keep them within due bounds, otherwise they would only disgust the soldiers
over whom they should be placed, the officers whom they should be destined to assist, and the
country in whose service they should be employed.

October 1, 1811.

       *       *       *       *       *

Money in aid of Labour better than Charity.

That which would be desirable is, if possible, to aid laborious exertions to procure a subsistence
by small advances of money; and I propose to keep this principle in view in the distribution
of the money entrusted to me, by which not only it will subsist those to whom it will be given
for a longer period, but it may be hoped that the people will resume their habits of industry,
and that they will soon again be able to provide for their own subsistence.

Oct. 11, 1811.

A General Re-action against Buonaparte predicted.

I have, however, long considered it probable, that even we should witness a general resistance
throughout Europe to the fraudulent and disgusting tyranny of Buonaparte, created by the example
of what has occurred in Spain and Portugal; and that we should be actors and advisers in these
scenes; and I have reflected frequently upon the measures which should be pursued to give a
chance of success.

Those who embark in projects of this description should be made to understand, or to act as
if they understood, that having once drawn the sword they must not return it, till they shall
have completely accomplished their object. They must be prepared, and must be forced, to make
all sacrifices to the cause. Submission to military discipline and order is a matter of course;
but when a nation determines to resist the authority, and to shake off the government of Buonaparte,
they must be prepared and forced to sacrifice the luxuries and comforts of life, and to risk
all in a contest, which it should be clearly understood before it is undertaken, has for its
object to save all or nothing.

The first measure for a country to adopt is to form an army, and to raise a revenue from the
people to defray the expense of the army: above all, to form a government of such strength,
as that army and people can be forced by it to perform their duty. This is the rock upon which
Spain has split; and all our measures in any other country which should afford hopes of resistance
to Buonaparte should be directed to avoid it. The enthusiasm of the people is very fine, and
looks well in print; but I have never known it to produce any thing but confusion. In France,
what was called enthusiasm was power and tyranny, acting through the medium of popular societies,
which have ended by overturning Europe, and in establishing the most powerful and dreadful
tyranny that ever existed. In Spain, the enthusiasm of the people spent itself in vivas and
vain boasting. The notion of its existence prevented even the attempt to discipline the armies;
and its existence has been alleged, ever since, as the excuse for the rank ignorance of the
officers and the indiscipline and constant misbehaviour of the troops.

I therefore earnestly recommend you, wherever you go, to trust nothing to the enthusiasm of
the people. Give them a strong and a just, and, if possible, a good government; but, above
all, a strong one, which shall enforce upon them to do their duty by themselves and their country;
and let measures of finance to support an army go hand in hand with measures to raise it.

I am quite certain that the finances of Great Britain are more than a match for Buonaparte,
and that we shall have the means of aiding any country that may be disposed to resist his tyranny.
But those means are necessarily limited in every country by the difficulty of procuring specie.
This necessary article can be obtained in sufficient quantities only by the contributions of
the people; and although Great Britain can and ought to assist with money, as well as in other
modes, every effort of this description, the principal financial as well as military effort,
ought to be by the people of the resisting country.

Dec. 10, 1811.

       *       *       *       *       *

The French System of Predatory War.

In the early days of the revolutionary war, the French, at the recommendation, I believe, of
Brissot, adopted a measure which they called a levée en masse; and put every man, animal, and
article, in their own country, in requisition for the service of the armies. This system of
plunder was carried into execution by the popular societies throughout the country. It is not
astonishing that a nation, among whom such a system was established, should have been anxious
to carry on the war beyond their own frontiers. This system both created the desire and afforded
the means of success; and with the war, they carried, wherever they went, the system of requisition;
not, however, before they had, by these and other revolutionary measures, entirely destroyed
all the sources of national prosperity at home.

Wherever the French armies have since gone, their subsistence, at least, the most expensive
article in all armies, and means of transport, have been received from the country for nothing.
Sometimes, besides subsistence, they have received clothing and shoes; in other instances,
besides these articles, they have received pay; and from Austria and Prussia, and other parts
of Germany and Italy, they have drawn, besides all these articles of supply for their troops,
heavy contributions in money for the supply of the treasury at Paris. To this enumeration ought
to be added the plunder acquired by the generals, officers, and troops; and it will be seen
that the new French system of war is the greatest evil that ever fell on the civilised world.

The capital and industry of France having been destroyed by the revolution, it is obvious that
the government cannot raise a revenue from the people of France adequate to support the large
force which must be maintained in order to uphold the authority of the new government, particularly
in the newly-conquered or ceded states; and to defend the widely-extended frontier of France
from all those whose interest and inclination must lead them to attack it. The French government,
therefore, under whatever form administered, must seek for support for their armies in foreign
countries. War must be a financial resource; and that appears to me to be the greatest misfortune
which the French revolution has entailed upon the present generation.

Jan. 31, 1812.

       *       *       *       *       *

I consider the Portuguese troops, next to the British, the best in the Peninsula.

May 3, 1812.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is very difficult to manage the defence of the kingdom of Portugal, the whole country being
frontier.

June 11, 1812.

How to establish National Credit.

When a nation is desirous of establishing public credit, or, in other words, of inducing individuals
to confide their property to its government, they must begin by acquiring a revenue equal to
their fixed expenditure; and they must manifest an inclination to be honest, by performing
their engagements in respect to their debts.

June 25. 1812.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Spaniards cry "Viva!" but don't act.

I do not expect much from the exertions of the Spaniards, notwithstanding all that we have
done for them. They cry viva! and are very fond of us, and hate the French; but they are, in
general, the most incapable of useful exertion of all the nations that I have ever known; the
most vain, and at the same time the most ignorant, particularly of military affairs, and above
all of military affairs in their own country.

August 18, 1812.

       *       *       *       *       *

Imbecility of the Spanish Leaders.

It is extraordinary that the revolution in Spain should not have produced one man with any
knowledge of the real situation of the country. It really appears as if they were all drunk,
and thinking, and talking of any other subject but Spain.

November 1, 1812.

Evils of uncontrolled popular Legislatures.

The theory of all legislation is founded in justice; and, if we could be certain that legislative
assemblies could on all occasions act according to the principles of justice, there would be
no occasion for those checks and guards which we have seen established under the best systems.
Unfortunately, however, we have seen that legislative assemblies are swayed by the fears and
passions of individuals; when unchecked, they are tyrannical and unjust; nay, more, it unfortunately
happens too frequently, that the most tyrannical and unjust measures are the most popular.
Those measures are particularly popular which deprive rich and powerful individuals of their
properties under the pretence of the public advantage; and I tremble for a country in which,
as in Spain, there is no barrier for the preservation of private property, excepting the justice
of a legislative assembly possessing supreme powers.

January 29, 1813.

       *       *       *       *       *

Ingratitude of the Portuguese to the British Army.

I must say, that the British army, which I have the honour to command, have met with nothing
but ingratitude from the government and authorities in Portugal for their services; and that
everything that could be done has been done by the civil authorities, lately, to oppress the
officers and soldiers on every occasion in which it has by any accident been in their power.
I hope, however, that we have seen the last of Portugal.

July 20, 1813.

       *       *       *       *       *

Jealousy of the interference of foreigners in their internal concerns, is the characteristic
of all Spaniards.

July 12, 1813.

       *       *       *       *       *

Sound sense is better than abilities.

August 8, 1813.

       *       *       *       *       *

Basis of military operations against the United States from the side of Canada.

Any offensive operation founded upon Canada must be preceded by a naval superiority on the
lakes. But even if we had that superiority, I should doubt our being able to do more than secure
the points on those lakes at which the Americans could have access. In such countries as America,
very extensive, thinly peopled, and producing but little food in proportion to their extent,
military operations by large bodies are impracticable, unless the party carrying them on has
the uninterrupted use of a navigable river, or very extensive means of land transport, which
such a country can rarely supply.

I conceive, therefore, that were your army larger even than the proposed augmentation would
make it, you could not quit the lakes; and, indeed, would be tied to them the more necessarily
in proportion as your army would be large.[7]

[Footnote 7: The letter from the Duke the above is taken was written in reply to an application
by the home government for his opinion. We frequently find the Duke applied to for his opinion
on political matters at home, while serving in the Peninsula.]

February 22, 1814.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Morale of an Army important to Discipline.

No reliance can be placed on the conduct of troops in action with the enemy, who have been
accustomed to plunder, and those officers alone can expect to derive honour in the day of battle
from the conduct of the troops under their command, who shall have forced them, by their attention
and exertions, to behave as good soldiers ought in their cantonments, their quarters, and their
camps.

March 5, 1814.

       *       *       *       *       *

English officers are very strictly instructed, and those who mean to serve their country well
must obey their instructions, however fearless they may be of responsibility. Indeed, I attribute
this fearlessness very much to the determination never to disobey, as long as the circumstances
exist under which an order is given.

April 16, 1814.

       *       *       *       *       *

French Feelings about the Slave Trade.

You (Mr. Wilberforce) judge most correctly regarding the state of the public mind here upon
this question. Not only is there no information, but, because England takes an interest in
the question, it is impossible to convey any through the only channel which would be at all
effectual, viz., the daily press. Nobody reads anything but the newspapers; but it is impossible
to get anything inserted in any French newspaper in Paris in favour of the abolition, or even
to show that the trade was abolished in England, from motives of humanity. The extracts made
from English newspapers upon this, or any other subject, are selected with a view, either to
turn our principles and conduct into ridicule, or to exasperate against us still more the people
of this country; and therefore the evil cannot be remedied by good publications in the daily
press in England, with a view to their being copied into the newspapers here.

       *       *       *       *       *

I must say that the daily press in England do us a good deal of harm in this as well as in
other questions. We are sure of the king and his government, if he could rely upon the opinion
of his people. But as long as our press teems with writings drawn with a view of irritating
persons here, we shall never be able to exercise the influence which we ought to have upon
this question, and which we really possess.

Letter to Mr. Wilberforce, October 8, 1814.

       *       *       *       *       *

The real power in Spain is in the clergy.

October 20, 1814.

       *       *       *       *       *

Les choses neuves, surtout quand elles sont compliquées, ne vont pas bien.

Letter to Doumouriex, November 3, 1814.

FRANCE.

Effects of Buonaparte's Government of France.

Ce qu'il y a de pis c'est le mécontentement général, et la pauvreté universelle. Cette malheureuse
révolution et ces suites ont ruiné le pays, de fond en comble. Tout le monde est pauvre, et,
ce qui est pis, leurs institutions empêchent qu'aucune famille devienne riche et puissante.
Tous doivent donc nécessairement viser à remplir des emplois publics, non, comme autrefois,
pour l'honneur de les remplir, mais pour avoir de quoi vivre. Tout le monde donc cherche de
l'emploi public.

Buonaparte laissa une armée de million d'hommes en France, outres les officiers prisonniers
en Angleterre et en Russie. Le roi ne peut pas en maintenir le quart. Tous ceux non employées
sont mécontens. Buonaparte gouvernait directement la moitié de l'Europe, et indirectement presque
l'autre moitié. Pour des causes à présent bien develloppées et connues, il employait une quantité
infinie de personnes dans ses administrations; et tous ceux employés, ou dans les administrations
extérieures, civiles, ou dans les administrations militaires des armées, sont renvoyés, et
beaucoup des ceux employés dans les administrations intérieures; à cette classe nombreuse ajouter
la quantité d'émigrés, et de personnes rentrés, tous mourant de faim, et tous convoitant de
l'emploi public afin de pouvoir vivre, et vous trouverez que plus des trois quarts de la classe
de la société, non employée à la main d'oeuvre ou à labourer la terre, sont en état d'indigence,
et, par conséquence, mécontens. Si vous considerez bien ce tableau, qui est la stricte vérité,
vous y verrez la cause et la nature du danger du jour. L'armée les officiers, sourtout, sont
mécontens. Ils le sont pour plusieurs raisons inutiles à detailler ici, mais ce mécontentement
pourra ce vaincre en adoptant des mesures sages pour améliorer l'esprit.

Letter to Doumouriex, November 26, 1814.

       *       *       *       *       *

Re-establishment of the Bourbons necessary to the Peace of Europe.

I have frequently told your highness, and every day's experience shews me that I am right,
that the only chance of peace for Europe consists in the establishment in France of the legitimate
Bourbons. The establishment of any other government, whether in the person of----, or in a
regency in the name of young Napoleon, or in any other individual, or in a republic, must lead
to the maintenance of large military establishments, to the ruin of all the governments of
Europe, till it shall suit the convenience of the French government to commence a contest which
can be directed only against you, or others for whom we are interested. In this contest we
shall feel the additional difficulty, that those who are now on our side will then be against
us, and you will again find yourself surrounded by enemies. I am convinced that the penetration
of your highness will have shewn you the danger of all these schemes to the interests of the
emperor, and that you will defeat them all by adhering to that line of conduct (in which you
will find us likewise) which will finally lead to the establishment in France of the legitimate
government, from which alone can Europe expect any genuine peace.

May 20, 1815.

       *       *       *       *       *

Effects of Waterloo.

I may be wrong, but my opinion is, that we have given Napoleon his death-blow: from all I hear,
his army is totally destroyed, the men are deserting in parties, even the generals are withdrawing
from him. The infantry throw away their arms, and the cavalry and artillery sell their horses
to the people of the country, and desert to their homes. Allowing for much exaggeration in
this account, and knowing that Buonaparte can still collect, in addition to what he has brought
back with him, the 5th corps d'armée, under Rapp, which is near Strasbourg, and the 3rd corps,
which was at Wavre during the battle, and has not suffered so much as the others, and probably
some troops from La Vendée, I am still of opinion that he can make no head against us--qu'il
n'a qu'à se pendre.

June 23, 1815.

       *       *       *       *       *

Some of the regiments (the new ones I mean) are reduced to nothing; but I must keep them as
regiments, to the great inconvenience of the service, at great expense; or I must send them
home, and part with the few British soldiers I have.

I never was so disgusted with any concern as I am with this; and I only hope that I am going
the right way to bring it to an early determination some way or other.

June 25, 1815.

       *       *       *       *       *

Waterloo described to a Soldier.

Notre Bataille du 18 a été une de géans; et notre succès a été complet, comme vous voyez. Que
Dieu me favorise assez pour que je n'en aie plus, parceque je suis désolé de la perte de mes
anciens amis et comrades.

Mon voisin et collaborateur (Blücher) est en bonne santé quoique un peu souffrant d'une chute
qu'il a faite d'un cheval blessé sous lui dans la bataille du 16.

Letter to Doumouriex, June 26, 1815.

       *       *       *       *       *

If Buonaparte is to be put to Death, he will not be his Executioneer.

General----has been here this day to negociate for Napoleon's passing to America, to which
proposition I have answered, that I have no authority. The Prussians think the Jacobins wish
to give him over to me, believing that I will save his life.---- wishes to kill him; but I
have told him I shall remonstrate, and shall insist upon his being disposed of by common accord.
I have likewise said that, as a private friend, I advised him to have nothing to do with so
foul a transaction; and that he and I had acted too distinguished parts in these transactions
to become executioners, and that I was determined that, if the sovereigns wished to put him
to death, they should appoint an executioner, which should not be me.

June 26, 1815.

       *       *       *       *       *

The "Pounding Match."

Letter to Marshal Beresford, July 9, 1815.

       *       *       *       *       *

Blucher's Vandalism averted.

To Marshal Prince Blucher.--Several reports have been brought to me during the evening and
night, and some from the government, in consequence of the work carrying on by your highness
on one of the bridges over the Seine, which it is supposed to be your intention to destroy.

As this measure will certainly create a good deal of disturbance in the town, and as the sovereigns
when they were here before, left all these bridges, &c., standing, I take the liberty of suggesting
to you to delay the destruction of the bridge, at least till they should arrive; or, at all
events, till I can have the pleasure of seeing you to-morrow morning.

July 8, 1815.

       *       *       *       *       *

The destruction of the bridge of Jena is highly disagreeable to the king and to the people,
and may occasion disturbance in the city. It is not merely a military measure, but is one likely
to attach to the character of our operations, and is of political importance. It is adopted
solely because the bridge is considered as a monument of the battle of Jena, notwithstanding
that the government are willing to change the name of the bridge. Considering the bridge as
a monument, I beg leave to suggest that its immediate destruction is inconsistent with the
promise made to the commissioners on behalf of the part of the army, during the negociation
of the convention, viz., that the monuments, museums, &c., should be reserved for the decision
of the allied sovereigns.

All that I ask is, that the execution of the orders given for the destruction of the bridge
may be suspended till the sovereigns shall arrive here, when, if it should be agreed by common
accord that the bridge ought to be destroyed, I shall have no objection.

July 9, 1815.[8]

[Footnote 8: The Duke rarely writes or speaks twice, when once will do. On this occasion he
was anxious; and--successful.]

       *       *       *       *       *

Summary Justice.

To the Sous-Préfet de Pontoise.--J'ai ordonné qu'on vous fasse prisonnier, parceque, ayant
envoyé une réquisition à Pontoise pour des vivres, vous avez répondu que vous ne les donneriez
pas, sans qu'on envoie une force militaire assez forte pour les prendre.

Vous vous êtes mis dans les cas des militaires, et je vous fais prisonnier de guerre, et je
vous envoie en Angleterre.

Si je vous traitais comme l'usurpateur et ses adherens ont traité les habitans des pays ou
ils ont fait la guerre, je vous ferais fusiller; mais, comme vous vous êtes constitué guerrier,
je vous fais prisonnier de guerre.

July 13, 1815.

       *       *       *       *       *

Characteristic Letter to Marshal Beresford.

The battle of Waterloo was certainly the hardest fought that has been for many years, I believe,
and has placed in the power of the allies the most important results. We are throwing them
away, however, by the infamous conduct of some of us; and I am sorry to add that our own government
also are taking up a little too much the tone of their rascally newspapers. They are shifting
their objects; and, having got their cake, they want both to eat it and keep it.

As for your Portuguese concerns, I recommend you to resign, and come away immediately. It is
impossible for the British government to maintain British officers for the Portuguese army,
at an expense even so trifling as it is, if the Portuguese government are to refuse to give
the service of the army in the cause of Europe in any manner. Pitch them to the devil, then,
in the mode which will be most dignified to yourself, and that which will have the best effect
in opening the prince's eyes to the conduct of his servants in Portugal; and let the matter
work its own way. Depend upon it, the British government must and will recall the British officers.

August 7, 1815.

       *       *       *       *       *

SPEECHES IN PARLIAMENT.

Praise of Lord Hastings and the Indian Army.

He professed his entire concurrence in the tribute of approbation bestowed on the Marquis of
Hastings, for his conduct of the late war in India. There could not remain a doubt in the minds
of those acquainted with the facts, but that the wisdom of the plan on which it was commenced,
and the vigour of its execution, merited the highest praise. The noble Duke said, he was pleased
that an opportunity, like the present, had occurred to do justice to the services and gallantry
of our troops in India, which were often neglected or disallowed. No troops in the world performed
their duty better, or observed a more steady discipline. They had evinced their good qualities
in all their late transactions, whether acting in great masses or small detachments. In all
situations they had nobly performed their duty.

House of Lords, March 9, 1819.

Impossibility of granting Catholic Emancipation.

The whole question turned upon the degree of security which could be given to the Protestant
religion as by law established in Ireland. To consider this, it was necessary to consider how
the reformation had been established in Ireland. It was not necessary for him to recall to
their lordships remembrance that the unreformed religion had been established in Ireland at
the point of the sword, and by means of confiscations. All this was repeated at the revolution,
and was fresh in the recollection of the people of Ireland. Keeping in view that the Irish
Roman Catholic church, under all oppressions, continued in the same state--the pope having
the same influence over the clergy, the clergy the same power over the people; in this state
of things, he would ask, whether it was possible that Roman Catholics could be safely admitted
to hold seats in parliament? The influence of the priesthood over the people was fostered by
the remembrance of the events to which he had alluded; and the idea of unmerited and mutual
suffering; and no doubt could be entertained, from their present feelings, that if the Roman
Catholics were admitted to the enjoyment of political power, their first exertion would be
to restore their religion to its original supremacy; and to recover the possessions and property
of which they had been stripped by the reformation. It was, however, said, that securities
were offered on the part of the Roman Catholics.

The pope, it seemed, had in the appointment of bishops, relinquished all to the crown, except
the mere conferring of a spiritual blessing. But how had that concession been received by the
people of Ireland? It had excited the utmost discontent, and was regarded as an abandonment
of the essential principles of their religion, and an attack on their national independence.
Did that arise from the people of Ireland having a less clear idea of national independence
than other people? No; but they felt if the executive power possessed any control over the
appointment of the Roman Catholic bishops, some security would be thereby obtained for the
Protestant church. Considering, then, that the whole question turned on the degree of security
which could be given, and looking at the various securities which had at several times been
proposed, he had never yet seen anything that came up to his notion of that which ought to
be required. As to what had been said of the domestic nomination of bishops, he did not see
how the laws of the country could operate upon it, so as to make it an adequate security. Then
as to the oath of allegiance which the bishop was to take, of what avail could it be, that
the law required this oath from a bishop, appointed God knows how, or by whom? When all these
circumstances were considered, the state of the Irish Catholic church, the way in which the
reformation had been effected, the rivalry and enmity between the Catholics and the established
church, and the inadequacy of all securities which had been proposed, there was in his opinion,
enough to decide the question; for, the first and greatest duty of the legislature was, to
secure the establishments as settled at the revolution.

House of Lords, May 17, 1819.

       *       *       *       *       *

County meetings if properly regulated, are a fair constitutional mode of taking the sense of
the county; but this cannot be the case if they are attended by a mob for the express purpose
of supporting one side.

House of Lords, January 26, 1821.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Porte our ancient Ally.

The Ottoman Porte is the ancient ally of this country. It forms an essential part of the balance
of power in Europe. The preservation of the Ottoman Porte has been an object of importance
not merely to England but also to the whole of Europe; and the changes of possession which
have taken place in the east of Europe within the recollection of all who hear me, render its
existence as an independent and powerful state, necessary to the well being of this country.

In the late war, had it not been for the influence of the councils of England over the Porte,
I may safely say that the disaster which finally led to the establishment of Europe as it now
is, would not have occurred to the extent it did in 1812. Under these circumstances I think
we may term the Ottoman Porte the "ancient ally" and friend of this country, even though the
treaties upon which our alliance is founded are not of a hundred years standing.

House of Lords, Jan. 29, 1828.

       *       *       *       *       *

Battle of Navarino an untoward Event. Sir E. Codrington acquitted of all blame.

There is one other subject to which I shall address myself, I mean the sense in which the word
"untoward" has been used. It was intended by "untoward" to convey, that the event referred
to was unexpected--was unfortunate. The sense in which the word was used was this: in the treaty
which is not yet before the house, and which cannot, therefore, regularly come under discussion,
though all of us have read it, it is mentioned as one stipulation, that the execution of it,
if possible, shall not lead to hostilities; and therefore, when the execution of it did lead
to hostilities, it was a consequence which the government did not anticipate, and which it
has, therefore, a right to call untoward.

It was hoped by the former government, that the treaty could be executed without risk of commencing
hostilities; and that is rendered quite indisputable, not merely by the treaty, but by the
force which the contracting parties sent into the Mediterranean to superintend its operation.

The late administration entertained hopes that those treaties could be carried into execution
without hostilities, as your lordships must have perceived from what you have seen of those
treaties themselves, as well as from the nature of the force sent to see them carried into
execution; and when it was ultimately found that hostilities were likely to ensue, every one
must look upon it as an untoward event which could give rise to such a state of things.

When the news of the affair which took place at Navarino reached Constantinople, it was apprehended
that a war would ensue, and therefore every one was justified in looking upon it as an untoward
event.

It is gratifying, however, to find from his majesty's speech, that those appearances of hostility
have ceased to exist, and that hopes are entertained that no impediment will present itself
to an amicable adjustment of the question; this, however, does not deprive the transaction
of the character of "untowardness" which it originally possessed.

But in making this statement, do I make the slightest charge, do I cast the most distant imputation
upon the gallant officer who commanded at Navarino? Certainly not. That gallant officer, in
doing as he has done, discharged what he felt to be his duty to his country. His majesty's
government have taken that gallant officer's conduct into consideration, and have acquitted
him of all blame; and, therefore, it would ill become me to cast the slightest imputation on
the distinguished action he performed. It should be recollected, that the gallant admiral was
placed in a situation of great delicacy as well as difficulty. He was placed in the command
of a combined squadron, in conjunction with two foreign admirals; and his conduct was such,
that they placed the most implicit confidence in him, and allowed him to lead them to victory.
My lords, I should feel myself unworthy of the situation which I hold in his majesty's councils,
if I thought myself capable of uttering a single syllable against that gallant admiral, admiring,
as I do, the intrepid bravery with which he conducted himself in a moment of much danger and
difficulty.

House of Lords, January 29, 1828.

       *       *       *       *       *

Reason for being Prime Minister.

When I received his majesty's commands to give my opinion respecting the formation of a ministry,
it was far from my wish to place myself at its head, or to take any office, other than that
which I already held; but finding, in the course of the negotiation which arose out of the
commands of his majesty, a difficulty in getting another individual to fill the place, and
that it was the unanimous wish of those who are now my colleagues, that I should take it, I
determined to accept it; but having so determined, I resigned the office of commander-in-chief.

House of Lords, January 29, 1828.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Doctrine of Non-interference.

Much has been said here and elsewhere, at various times, on the question of interference by
one state in the affairs of another. I do not admit the right of one country to interfere with
the internal affairs of another country, except where the law of necessity or great political
interests may render interference absolutely necessary. But I say that non-interference is
the rule, and interference the exception. This is the ground of the policy on which this country
acts. She disdains a daily interference with the affairs of other countries.

House of Lords, February 11, 1828.

       *       *       *       *       *

No Personal or Political Hostility to Canning.

I rise to protest against any such imputation being cast upon me, as that I ever entertained
any personal hostility to Mr. Canning. On a former occasion I stated distinctly to your lordships,
why I did not think proper to remain in the government of which Mr. Canning was the head. The
communications that passed between me and Mr. Canning have, unfortunately, I must be allowed
to say, been made public enough, and I defy any man to point out anything like personal feelings
in those communications. It is true, that when I found it necessary to withdraw from the government,
I also thought it my duty to lay down the military office which I hold; but I beg leave to
call your lordships' recollection to the explanation which I gave at that time, and to my subsequent
conduct. After I left the government, I always met Mr. Canning in the way in which I had been
accustomed to meet him, and did not depart from those habits which had marked our previous
intercourse. But I will go further and say, that I had no hostility towards Mr. Canning's government.
I did, it is true, propose that a clause should be added to the corn-bill, but did I not at
the same time beg of the government to adopt that clause, or something like it, and not to
abandon the bill? I must again repeat, that to the day of his death I felt no personal hostility
to Mr. Canning; and that I am equally free from the imputation of having entertained any political
hostility towards him. To whatever persons the declaration of the right honourable gentleman
(Mr. Huskisson) was intended to apply.[9] I claim to myself the right of not being included
in the number of Mr. Canning's enemies.

[Footnote 9: Referring to an angry speech of that gentleman in the Commons.]

House of Lords, February 25, 1828.

       *       *       *       *       *

Corn Law of 1828, Principle on which founded.

Your lordships are all aware that a variety of opinions exist throughout the country respecting
the introduction of foreign corn; one class of persons maintaining that its importation should
be prohibited; while others contend for its free introduction into the markets of the country.
I have considered it my duty, and my colleagues also have considered it theirs, in the measure
which they are about to propose to parliament, to endeavour to steer their course between the
two extremes, and to propose a measure which shall have the effect of conciliating all parties,
be at the same time favourable to the public, and shall be permanent. Your lordships will recollect,
notwithstanding the difference of opinion which exists on this subject, all parties agree,
generally, that the corn growers of this country ought, in some measure, to be protected.

The number of individuals, either in parliament or out of it, who maintain that foreign corn
should be altogether free of duty, are very few indeed. Some persons, undoubtedly, think that
a small fixed duty ought to be imposed; and I, my lords, should certainly say here, that if
any such fixed duty were imposed, it ought to be a very small one; but I repeat, that whatever
may be the particular doctrines or opinions of one class of persons or another, all agree that
some protection ought to be afforded to the agriculture of this country. This opinion is founded
on the great burden of taxation upon the country generally, as well as on the particular burdens
on the land; and on the fact that the labouring classes here are better fed, clothed, and lodged,
than the people of the same class in other countries. It is admitted by those who entertain
this opinion in favour of a low duty, that their expectation and intention are, that the poorer
lands of this country, which have been brought into cultivation by the application of great
labour, and by the expenditure of large capital, should at once be thrown out of cultivation;
and even the richer lands would become, comparatively, unprofitable in consequence of the adoption
of their system. I will maintain that this country has been brought to its present high state
of cultivation, and consequent internal wealth, by the fostering protection which has invariably
been given to agriculture, and which has induced gentlemen to lay out their capital in redeeming
waste lands and bringing them into cultivation. The result of such a system would be--to throw
out of cultivation the land thus redeemed from waste; to reduce the extent of cultivation of
the richer lands, consequently to lessen the productive power of the country; and finally to
throw us for subsistence and support on the resources of foreign nations. My lords,--I will
not exaggerate the effects likely to be produced by the pursuing of a system such as that to
which I have alluded; but I beg your lordships to reflect on the consequences which must result,
if the powers, from whose dominions these resources are generally drawn, should think proper
to lay a heavy tax on the export of such corn, or that it should be subject to such an operation
by any other state, in its transit to this country. I entreat your lordships to consider what
must be the consequences of such a measure in its results to this country; a measure, too,
in which I may say, that foreign states might, from circumstances, be highly justified. But
supposing such moderation on the part of those states, that they should continue to allow us
to draw our supplies from their dominions; supposing we could be supplied from other countries--America,
for instance; yet I entreat your lordships to observe, that this country would be constantly,
under the proposed system of fixed duty, placed in the state in which it found itself in years
of famine and scarcity, which occurred in both the last and present century, and would of consequence
be exposed to the highest possible prices for wheat. This, my Lords, I say, would be the inevitable
consequence.

The cost of production, in Poland, for instance, would not be increased; but the prices would
be regulated here, not by the prices of that country, but by the scarcity price of this country,
and by the profits of all those who might be, directly or indirectly, concerned in the contemplated
importation of corn, in such a state of things as that to which I have alluded. Under these
circumstances, a low duty would not be productive of a reduction in price; indeed, so far from
diminution, I am confident it would produce an enormous increase. But, my Lords, I would ask,
even supposing it were otherwise, whether it would be proper to adopt such a measure, in reference
to its probable effect in other respects? My Lords, look to Ireland, and consider what must
by the inevitable consequence if agriculture is not to be encouraged in that country--a country,
which, during the last year supplied England with more than 2,000,000 quarters of grain. The
quantity of wheat alone imported from Ireland last year, was no less than 400,000 quarters.
I do therefore, beg your Lordships to consider what must be the consequence of cutting off
from that country nearly the only source of industry--the only manufacture, with one exception,
which is established in that country. No man, whether connected with that country or not, can
for a moment think of imposing such a sacrifice on that country. On the contrary, I am disposed
to think, that many of your Lordships will be ready to make considerable sacrifices to procure
for the people of Ireland a share of that plenty their industry affords us. But, my Lords,
I speak not only with reference to Ireland, but with reference to this country. I am ready
to state that the gentlemen of this country have, by the extent of their capital, and the labour
which they have employed on their estates, raised the agriculture of this kingdom to its present
prosperous condition; and nothing would be more unjust than to take from them that protection
by which they have been enabled to bring cultivation to the state in which it now is, and to
deprive them of those profits which are so justly their due, on account of the capital laid
out by them.

I will say, that the merchant, that the manufacturer, the poor, and the whole public, are interested
in the maintenance of the independent affluence of the nobility and gentry of this country,--that
the Government are interested in supporting their influence, on account of the assistance which
has always been derived from them in every branch of internal government, and on account of
the support which they have afforded to Government under every circumstance. If it were in
my power to make corn cheaper by diminishing the protection which the landed gentry have always
received, I would not do it at the expense of Ireland, and of all the evils which the measure
must inflict upon the essential interests of this country.

My Lords, having expressed my opinion upon the system of importation at a low duty, I will
now offer a few observations with respect to the other system,--that of entire prohibition;
and which, I must say, has been greatly and justly complained of. The truth is, that such a
system could not be carried into execution without exposing the country to the greatest possible
evils:--first of all, from want--next from high prices, and also from a superabundance of corn,
arising from the introduction of a greater quantity of wheat than required being in the country
at a period when the scarcity might have been relieved by an abundant harvest; and, lastly,
from the depression of prices, affecting not only the producers of corn in this country, but
also the importers of foreign grain. My Lords, evils like these can only be relieved by the
illegal interference of the Government, or by ministers coming to Parliament, in order to induce
it to consent to a suspension of the law.

Such, my Lords, is the history of the corn question as regards prohibition; and there is not
the least doubt that the system has produced all the evils to which I have alluded at one period
or another.

March 31, 1828.

       *       *       *       *       *

Reason for repealing the Test and Corporation Acts.

I fully agree that the security of the Church of England, and the union existing between it
and the state, depend neither on the law about to be repealed by the present bill, nor upon
the provisions of this measure itself. That union and security, which we must all desire to
see continued, depend upon the oath taken by his Majesty, to which we are all, in our respective
stations, parties, and not only on that oath, but on the Act of Settlement, and the different
acts of union from time to time agreed to; all of which provide for the intimate and inseparable
union of church and state, and for the security of both.

The question is, what security does the existing system of laws, as they now stand, afford
the church establishment? My lords, I am very dubious as to the amount of security afforded
through the means of a system of exclusion from office, to be carried into effect by a law
which it is necessary to suspend by an annual act, that admits every man into office whom it
was the intention of the original framers of the law to exclude. It is perfectly true it was
not the intention of those who brought in that suspension law originally, that dissenters from
the church of England should be permitted to enter into corporations under its provisions.
The law was intended to relieve those whom time or circumstances had rendered unable to qualify
themselves according to the system which government had devised. However, the dissenters availed
themselves of the relaxation of the law, for the purpose of getting into corporations, and
this the law allowed. What security, then, I ask, my Lords, is to be found in the existing
system? So far from dissenters being excluded by the corporation and test acts, from all corporations,
so far is this from being the fact, that, as must be well known to your Lordships, some corporations
are absolutely and entirely in the possession of dissenters. Can you suppose that the repeal
of laws so inoperative as these, can afford any serious obstacle to the perfect security of
the church, and the permanent union of that establishment with the state? The fact is, that
the existing laws have not only failed completely in answering their intended purpose, but
they are anomalous and absurd--anomalous in their origin, absurd in their operation.

If a man were asked the question, at his elevation to any corporate office, whether he had
received the sacrament of the church of England, and if he said "No," he lost every vote that
had been tendered on his behalf, and there was an end of his election, but if, on the contrary,
by accident or design, he got in without the question relative to the sacrament being put to
him, then the votes tendered for him were held good, and his election valid; so that no power
could remove him from the office which he held. I ask, is there any security in that? My noble
friend says, that the original intention of the framers of these acts, was that the sacrament
should not be taken by dissenters; but the law requires that a man, on entering into any corporation,
shall receive the sacrament, without regard to his religious belief. Thus an individual whose
object it is to get into a particular office, may feel disposed, naturally enough, to take
the sacrament before his election, merely as a matter of form, and thus a sacred rite of our
church is profaned, and prostituted to a shameful and scandalous purpose. I confess my Lords,
I should have opposed this bill, if I thought it calculated to weaken the securities at present
enjoyed by the church. However, I agreed not to oppose the bill; though I consented in the
first instance to oppose it, in order to preserve the blessings of religious peace. I was willing
to preserve the system which had given us this peace for forty years, for during that time
the name and the claims of the dissenters not been heard of. But now they have come forward,
and their claims are approved of by a great majority of the House of Commons, and the bill
has come up to this house. If it be opposed by the majority of this house, it is to be feared,
now that the claims are made, that such an opposition will carry hostility throughout the country,
and introduce a degree of rancour into every parish of the kingdom, which I should not wish
to be responsible for.

April 17, 1828.

       *       *       *       *       *

Additional reasons for repealing the Test Act.

I have not called on your lordships to agree to this bill because it has been passed by the
House of Commons; I merely assigned that as one of the reasons which induced me to recommend
the measure to your Lordships. I certainly did allude to the feeling in favour of the bill
which has for some time been growing up in the House of Commons, as a good reason for entertaining
it in your Lordships' house,--but other reasons also operated on my mind. Many individuals
of high eminence in the church and who are as much interested as any other persons in the kingdom
in the preservation of the Constitution, have expressed themselves as being favourable to an
alteration of the law. The religious feelings of those venerable persons disposed them to entertain
this measure, because they felt strong objections to the sacramental test. Under these circumstances,
wishing to advance and preserve the blessings of religious peace and tranquillity; conceiving
the present a good opportunity for securing to the country so inestimable an advantage,--I
felt it to be my duty to recommend this measure to your Lordships. It is on all these grounds
that I support the bill, and not on the single ground, the circumstance of its having been
carried in the House of Commons, as a noble Lord has stated. I am not one of those who consider
that the best means of preserving the constitution of this country, is by rigidly adhering
to measures which have been called for by particular circumstances, because those measures
have been in existence for two hundred years; for the lapse of time might render it proper
to modify, if not to remove them altogether.

I admit my Lords, that for about two hundred years, the religious peace of the country has
been preserved under these bills; but, when Parliament is discussing the best means of preserving
the constitution of the country, it is surely worth while to inquire whether any and what changes,
in what have been deemed the securities of the church, can safely be made, so as to conciliate
all parties.

All I hope is, that your Lordships will not unnecessarily make any alteration in the measure,
that would be likely to give dissatisfaction; that your Lordships will not do anything which
may be calculated to remove that conciliating spirit which is now growing up,--a spirit that
will redound to the benefit of the country, and which, so far from opposing, we ought, on the
contrary, to do everything to foster and promote.

April 21st 1828.

       *       *       *       *       *

Emancipation.--Will oppose it, (April 1828,) unless he sees a great change in the government.

There is no person in this house, whose feelings and sentiments, after long consideration,
are more decided than mine are, with respect to the subject of the Roman Catholic claims; and
I must say, that until I see a very great change in that question, I certainly shall continue
to oppose it.

April 28th, 1828.

       *       *       *       *       *

State of the Poor in Ireland.

I am thoroughly convinced that no part of his Majesty's dominions so imperiously requires the
constant and particular attention of his Majesty's servants as Ireland does. A noble earl has
stated that there are in Ireland 8,000,000 of people, the situation of 6,000,000 of whom demands
inquiry. He has told your Lordships likewise, that all the wealth of Ireland is not sufficient
to give employment to those people. Now, certainly, I cannot but think that this is an exaggerated
statement on the part of the noble earl.

It cannot be supposed that there are 6,000,000 of the Irish population who require employment--I
cannot admit that the whole of those people are unemployed. It is not true that they suffer
this distress at all times,--it is not true that they suffer the same degree of distress in
different years; but it is unquestionably true, that they do suffer great distress at various
periods, owing to the casualties of the seasons, and to the particular species of food on which
they subsist. Such is the plain fact. The noble earl has stated, that the people are able to
procure that sort of food on which they chiefly live, at the rate of three-farthings a stone.
Now, really, if those people do not suffer distress, except that which is occasioned by the
untowardness of the seasons; if those 6,000,000 of people can get provisions at the price mentioned
by the noble earl, in favourable seasons,--it does appear to me that the case hardly calls
for inquiry, except at a time when their food has failed in consequence of an unproductive
season. But then the noble earl has asserted that the distress arises from want of work, and
that it would take more than all the wealth of Ireland to procure employment for the people.
"Let us then," said the noble earl, "relieve the sick, the lame, the aged, and the impotent."
The noble earl has said, that one of the great evils of Ireland is want of capital; but I must
beg leave to tell the noble earl, that profusion of capital alone will not prevent the existence
of a numerous body of poor, and to prove the fact let the noble earl look to the situation
of England. There is no want of capital in this country; the noble earl has told your lordships
that there are invested here £9,000,000 of capital belonging to Ireland alone; and yet, with
all this capital, the support of the poor required last year amounted to no less than £7,000,000
of rates.

May 21st. 1828.

       *       *       *       *       *

Catholic Emancipation.

A noble friend of mine has stated to the house, that the proposed measure is inconsistent with
the constitution, as established at the revolution; and another noble lord has concurred in
that statement. If I had been going to propose a measure which would introduce a predominant
Catholic power into Parliament, I should then be doing that which is clearly inconsistent with
the constitution. But I am not going to do any such thing. There are degrees of power at least.
Will any man venture to say, that Catholic power does not exist at present, either here or
in Ireland? I will address myself more particularly to the noble Lords who have so pointedly
opposed me, and I will ask them whether Roman Catholic power was not introduced into Ireland
by measures of their own? Did not some noble lords exert their influence to the utmost to produce
that very power, which has rendered a measure like that which I have announced to Parliament
absolutely necessary? As such is the case, I implore noble Lords to look at the situation of
the country, and the state of society which it has produced. Whether it has been brought about
by the existence of these disabilities, or by the Catholic Association, I will not pretend
to say; but this I will say, that no man who has looked at the state of things for the last
two years, can proceed longer upon the old system, in the existing condition of Ireland, and
of mens' opinions on the subject, both in that country and in this. My opinion is, that it
is the wish of the majority of the people, that this question should be settled one way or
other. It is upon that principle, and in conformity to that wish, that I and my colleagues
have undertaken to bring the adjustment of it under the consideration of Parliament.

February 5, 1829.

       *       *       *       *       *

Defence of his Conduct with respect to Emancipation.

I have repeatedly declared my earnest wish to see the Roman Catholic question settled. I believe
nothing could ever have been more distinct or explicit than my expression of that wish; and
is it a matter of surprise that the person entertaining it should avail himself of the first
opportunity of proposing the adoption of that which, over and over again, he declared himself
anxiously to wish? On this particular question I had long ago made up my mind, as a member
of this house, to take a particular course. It may be thought peculiar as a matter of taste;
but, for many years, I have acted upon the determination never to vote for the affirmation
of this question until the Government, acting as a Government, should propose it to the legislature.
My noble relation (Lord Longford) knows, that ever since the year 1810, the several successive
Governments of this country have been formed upon a principle which prevented their ever proposing,
as a Government, the adoption of any measure of relief in regard to the Catholics. In order
to the formation of a cabinet which, acting as a Government, could propose this measure, it
was, in the first place, necessary to obtain the consent of that individual, the most interested
by his station, his duty, and the most sacred of all obligations, of any individual in the
empire. It was necessary, I say, that I should obtain the consent of that individual, before
the members of the Government could consider the question as a Government one. Now, under such
circumstances as these, would it have been proper in me to have breathed a syllable on the
subject, until I had obtained the consent of the illustrious personage to whom I have alluded?[10]
I call upon my noble relative to answer this question, if he can, in the negative. I beg of
my noble relative to ask himself this question, whether I was wrong in having kept secret my
views, since the month of July or August, not talking to any man upon the subject, until I
had the consent of that exalted personage, to form a Government upon the principle of taking
the question to which I have alluded into consideration? My noble relative ought to place himself
in my situation--he ought to see what was expected of me; and then, instead of blaming me for
acting as I have done, he would see that, if I had acted otherwise, I should have been highly
blameable. When the question had been decided--when I received the permission, so as to be
enabled to make the declaration--on not having made which, alone the accusation of surprise
can be founded--the opening of the session was so near, that it was impossible to make known
what had occurred earlier, or in any other manner than by the speech from the Throne.

[Footnote 10: Lord Longford had accused him of concealment.]

February 10, 1829.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Emancipation Bill not the result of Fear.

He would positively reject the charge which had been so positively made, that those measures
had been suggested to his Majesty's ministers, or that their minds had been at all influenced
by the fear of anything that would occur in this or any other country. He totally denied the
truth of such an assertion. There never was a period during the last twenty years in which,
looking to the circumstances and relations of this country, there was a more total absence
of all cause for fear than the present; and whatever might be the consequences of this measure,
he would maintain, that the period at which it was introduced, showed sufficiently that its
introduction did not proceed from fear; and that such was the fact, he was ready to prove to
any man upon the clearest possible evidence. But, though these measures had not been suggested
by fear nor by intimidation, it would be found, when they were brought forward, that they were
founded upon the clear and decided opinion, that this question ought to be settled, and that
considerable sacrifices had been made by himself and his colleagues in this, and in the other
House of Parliament, with a view to the final adjustment of it. In doing so, he begged the
noble Lord on the cross bench to believe, that not the least considerable or the least disagreeable
sacrifice on his part, was the necessity imposed on him of differing from the noble lord on
this subject. But he would not talk of his own sacrifices--they were trifling, when compared
with the sacrifices which had been made by some of his noble friends near him, and by his right
honourable friend in another place. He could not conceive a greater sacrifice than must have
been made by his right honourable friend, to bring his mind to the determination of carrying
this measure. It was obvious that nothing but an imperious sense of duty had induced his right
honourable friend to make such a sacrifice; but the inconveniences and dangers which had arisen
from the present state of things in this country and in Ireland, had left no alternative but
the adoption of this measure; and now that he had adopted it, he would use his best endeavours,
in concert with his colleagues, to carry it into effect. Under such circumstances, he would
entreat their lordships to wait until the whole question should have come before them. When
the measure should have been well considered by them, they would then see whether it would
be attended with the dangerous consequences ascribed to it--and whether the carrying it would
not place the Protestant Constitution of these realms upon a better footing than it had been
since the union with Ireland. He would not now enter into the discussion, whether the consequences
of this measure would be injurious to that Throne, for the maintenance of which he was ready
to sacrifice his life, or whether the measure was likely to produce those effects which were
apprehended by his noble friend on the cross bench. Of this he was certain, that the existence
of the dangers which some noble lords seemed to apprehend from the adjustment of this question,
they were never able to establish; and whenever the discussion of the measure came before their
lordships, he would be ready to prove, that the Protestant institutions of this country were
exposed to more dangers at present, than they would be exposed to after the adoption of the
measure that would be proposed.

February 16, 1829.

       *       *       *       *       *

Former Associations in Ireland could not be put down.--Mr. Pitt for Emancipation.

He must say, he apprehended from the number of persons in the habit of attending that Association,
the nature of the speeches there delivered, and the measures to which all alike appeared parties,
that the people of Ireland at large had been parties to the Association.

He proposed the present bill as a preliminary measure; the necessity for which was founded
on the statements already made to their Lordships. He considered any other mode of proceeding
as inconsistent with the dignity of the Crown, and of Parliament; and as absolutely necessary,
in order to reconcile to the ulterior measure which he intended to propose, the good and worthy
men in this country, who viewed with dismay and disgust the violent and unconstitutional acts
of the Association. He entreated their Lordships to consider, that the eyes of all Europe were
upon them; and that they should do nothing which could give any man ground to believe that,
in the steps they were about to take, they were guided by any other motive than that of expediency
and good policy.

       *       *       *       *       *

If they looked to the state in which the Roman Catholic question stood in Parliament, from
the period of the Union down to the present, they would see the prevalence of a growing opinion
in its favour. Mr. Pitt had, in his time, considered it necessary to admit, that the laws enforcing
eligibility upon Catholics ought to be reviewed, for the purposes of modification; and, under
the repeated assurances of different eminent statesmen, a Roman Catholic influence had undoubtedly
grown up in Ireland, which it was high time to satisfy by a reasonable change of policy. For
some years after this subject had attracted parliamentary attention, there were reasons of
a highly creditable nature, both to individual ministers and to Parliament, why it would have
been improper and impolitic to have brought the measure forward as a measure of government;
but, since the year 1811, these particular reasons had not been in full operation; and the
subject, notwithstanding the divided state of the Cabinet upon it, had been constantly discussed,
and during all that time, had been gaining ground. He was not prepared to describe here the
mode in which the principle of a divided government had operated upon the Catholic question;
but he defied any member of the government, at the period to which he referred, to deny that,
whether the question before them was one of education for Ireland, one for the alteration of
the Criminal Law, or one for the regulation of tithes, this division was felt to affect one
and all of these topics; in fact, that none of them could come to be discussed, without some
reference to the great subject which was so long in agitation. The time had, he hoped, now
arrived, when Parliament was prepared to settle it.

February 19, 1829.

       *       *       *       *       *

Unparalleled State of Ireland in 1829.

From all he had seen and read relative to Ireland, during the last two years, he was forced
to arrive at this conclusion, namely, that he did not believe there was on the face of the
globe any country claiming the denomination of a civilized country, situated as that country
now was, under the Government of his Majesty and the Imperial Parliament.

February 19, 1829.

The Roman Catholic Association dangerous.

The true description of this Association was, in his opinion, to be found stated in the speech
which had been delivered from the Throne, on the first day of the session. The speech proceeded
to say--"His Majesty confidently relies on the wisdom and on the support of his Parliament;
and his Majesty feels assured, that you will commit to him such powers as may enable his Majesty
to maintain his just authority." Such was a just description of the recent state of the Roman
Catholic Association; but he believed he was justified in stating, that in the original institution
and formation of the society, on the subject of which it was his duty to address their lordships,
there was nothing strictly illegal. The illegality subsequently complained of, and which it
was the object of this, as well as of a former bill, to suppress, proceeded from its acts.
But this was not the least material part of the danger occasioned by the Catholic Association.
Part of the money thus improperly obtained was spent for election purposes. And here he called
the attention of the noble and learned lord, to acts proving the existence in Parliament of
a Roman Catholic influence, and of an influence directly derived from this Association. He
would not discuss that subject further at the present moment; but he begged noble lords not
to forget it, in discussing the details of a measure which he should have to propose hereafter
for their Lordships' adoption. Besides the money spent in elections, there were other sums
(also arising out of the rent) spent in endeavours to contravene the due administration of
justice in Ireland. When he made this observation, he fully and freely admitted the right,
and, indeed, duty of every man, to watch closely and vigilantly the administration of law and
justice in this country; but, at the same time, he was prepared to maintain, that that right
and duty could not be conveniently and justly exercised by the members of a self-elected Association,
having large sums at their command, and employing the money which they possessed for the purpose
of exciting a spirit of litigation and dissatisfaction among his Majesty's subjects--employing
it for the purpose of defending some individuals--for the purpose of prosecuting others---
for the purpose of prejudicing the first inquiries in cases of criminal procedure, and unduly
interfering with the administration of justice by the magistracy.

February 10, 1829.

       *       *       *       *       *

The people were insidiously led to believe that the proposed measures were for the establishment
of popery, and the destruction of the protestant establishment of the country; and, acting
very properly on this unfounded delusion, petitioned against them. But while he admired and
rejoiced in the excellent motives which induced the people of this country, in many places,
to protest against the intended measures of government; he hoped that when they saw that those
measures were not of the dangerous nature ascribed to them, and that they tended, so far from
establishing popery, to check and prevent its growth, and to promote the influence of the protestant
religion in Ireland,--he hoped, he said, the people of England would, in their conduct, evince
that loyalty to the crown, whence the recommendation of the measure had emanated, and that
confidence in the wisdom of parliament, which had ever honourably distinguished them. Indeed,
he was convinced, that when the people of England saw there was no fear of the extension of
popery from the measure which ministers felt it to be their duty to recommend to their sovereign,
but that, on the contrary, they would tend to strengthen the protestant interests of the state,
they would hail those measures as beneficial to all classes.[11]

[Footnote 11: This, and the foregoing extracts on the subject of Catholic Emancipation, are
from short speeches made by the Duke in the House of Lords after the intentions of the government
had been made known, but before the Emancipation Bill came up to that house. Although the Duke
earnestly deprecated these preliminary discussions, he was called up almost every night by
some peer or other.]

March 2, 1829.

       *       *       *       *       *

No Compact with Rome would add to the security of the church of Ireland.

I know that there are many in this house, and many in this country, who think--and I am free
to admit that I was formerly of the same opinion myself--that the state ought to have some
security for the church against the proceedings of the Roman Catholic clergy, besides the oaths
imposed on them by the Act of Parliament I confess that on examining into the question, and
upon looking more minutely than I had before leisure to do, at the various acts of Parliament
by which the church of England is constituted, and which form the foundation on which it rests,
I can think of no sort of arrangement capable of being carried into execution in this country
which can add to the security of the established church. I beg your Lordships to attend for
a moment whilst I explain the situation of the kingdom of Prussia with respect to the Roman
Catholic religion. The King of Prussia exercises the power which he does over the Roman Catholic
church, in her various dominions, under different concordats made with the Pope: in Silesia,
under a concordat made by Buonaparte with the Pope; and in the territories on the right bank
of the Rhine, under the concordat made by the former sovereigns of those countries with the
Pope. Each of these concordats supposes that the Pope possesses some power in the country,
which he is enabled to concede to the sovereign with whom the concordat is made. That is a
point which we can never yield to any sovereign whatever. There is no sovereign, be he who
he may, who has any power in this country to confer upon his majesty. We must keep our sovereign
clear from such transactions. We can, therefore, have no security of that description,--not
even a veto, on the appointment of a Roman Catholic bishop, without detracting, in some degree,
from the authority and dignity of the sovereign, and without admitting that the Pope has something
to concede to his Majesty.

Now let us suppose another security. Suppose it were arranged that his Majesty should have
the nomination of the Catholic bishops. If he nominated them, he must also give them a jurisdiction--he
must give them a diocese. I should like to know in what part of Ireland or England the king
could fix upon a spot where he could, consistently with the oath he has taken, nominate a Catholic
bishop, or give him a diocese? The king is sworn to maintain the rights and privileges of the
bishops, and of the clergy of this realm, and of the churches committed to their charge. Now,
consistently with that oath, how could the king appoint a bishop of the Roman Catholic religion;
and would not the Established church lose more than it gained by the assumption of such a power
on the part of his Majesty? Then, my Lords, there is another security, which some noble Lords
think it desirable to have,--namely, the obtaining, by government, of copies of all correspondence
between the Catholic clergy and the Court of Rome; and the supervising of that correspondence,
in order to prevent any danger resulting to the Established church. Upon that point I must
say I feel the greatest objection to involve the government of this country in such matters.
That correspondence, we are told, turns on spiritual affairs. But I will suppose for the sake
of argument, that it turns on questions of excommunication. Is it, then, to be suffered, that
the Pope, and his Majesty, or his Majesty's secretary of state acting for him, should make
law for this country? for that would be the result of communications between the Catholic clergy
of this realm and the Pope being submitted to his Majesty's inspection, or to the inspection
of his Majesty's secretary of state. Such a security amounts to a breach of the constitution,
and it is quite impossible that it could be made available. It would do more injury to the
constitution and the church, than any thing which could be done by the Roman Catholics themselves,
when placed by this bill in the same situation as dissenters.

With respect to communication with the Court of Rome, that has already been provided against
and prevented by laws still in existence. Your Lordships are aware that those laws, like many
others regarding the Roman Catholic religion, are not strictly enforced, but still, if they
should be abused,--if the conduct of those persons whose actions those laws are intended to
regulate should be such as to render necessary the interference of government, the very measure
which is now before your lordships will enable government to interfere in such a manner as
not only to answer the object of its interference, but also to give satisfaction to this house,
and to the country.

April 2, 1829.

       *       *       *       *       *

Anticipation of success for the Measure. The parallel case of the Scotch Church instanced.

When I recommend this measure to your Lordships attention, you have, undoubtedly, a right to
ask what are the reasons I have for believing that it will effect the purpose for which it
was intended.

Note--The above extract and those which follow of the same date, are from the Duke's speech
in introducing the Catholic Relief Bill.

My Lords, I believe it will answer its object, not only from the example of all Europe, but
from the example of what occurred in a part of this kingdom on a former occasion. If I am not
mistaken, at the time of the dispute between the Episcopalians and the Kirk of Scotland; the
state of society in Scotland was as bad then as the state of society in Ireland is at the present
moment. Your Lordships know that abroad, in other parts of Europe, in consequence of the diffusion
of civil privileges to all classes, the difference between Protestant and Catholic is never
heard. I am certain I can prove to your Lordships what I stated when I said, that the state
of society in Scotland, previous to the concession of civil privileges to the Episcopalians,
was as bad as the present state of society in Ireland.

I hope your Lordships will give me leave to read a petition which has been sent to me this
day, and which was presented to the Scottish Parliament at the period when those concessions
were about to be made, and your Lordships will perceive that the petition is almost a model
of many petitions which have been read in this house respecting the question under discussion.
I am, therefore, in expectation that should the present bill pass this house, there will be
no longer occasion for those complaints which have been expressed to your Lordships, and that
the same happy and peaceful state of things which has for the last century prevailed in Scotland
will also prevail in Ireland. I will, with your Lordships' permission, read the petition I
have alluded to, and I think that after you have heard it, you will be of the same opinion
as I am with respect to the similarity it bears to many petitions which have been presented
to your Lordships on the Catholic question. The petition states, that "to grant toleration
to that party (the Episcopalians) in the present circumstances of the Church, must unavoidably
shake the foundation of our present happy constitution; overthrow those laws on which it is
settled, grievously disturb that peace and tranquillity which the nation has enjoyed since
the late revolution, disgust the minds of his Majesty's best subjects; increase animosity;
confirm discord and tumult; weaken and enervate the discipline of the church; open the door
to unheard of vices, and to Popery as well as to other errors; propagate and cherish disaffection
to the government, and bring the nation under the danger of falling back into those mischiefs
and calamities, from which it had lately escaped by the divine blessing. We, therefore, humbly
hope, that no concessions will be granted to that party which would be to establish iniquity
by law, and bring upon the country manifold calamities and disasters, from which we pray that
government may preserve the members of the high court of Parliament."

I sincerely hope, that as the prophecy contained in this petition has not been fulfilled, that
a similar prophecy respecting the passing of the present bill, contained in many petitions
presented to your Lordships, will not be fulfilled. But, my Lords, I have other grounds besides
those which I have already stated for supposing that the proposed measure will answer the object
in view. There is no doubt, that after this measure shall be adopted, the Roman Catholics can
have no separate interest as a separate sect,--for I am sure that neither this house, nor the
other house of parliament, will be disposed to look upon the Roman Catholics, or upon anything
that respects Ireland, with any other eye than that with which they regard whatever affects
the interests of Scotland, or of this country. For my own part, I will state, that if I am
disappointed in the hopes which I entertained that tranquillity will result from this measure,
I shall have no scruple in coming down and laying before Parliament the state of the case.
I shall act with the same confidence that parliament would support me then, as I have acted
in the present case.

April 2, 1829.

       *       *       *       *       *

Abolition of the Jesuits and other Monastic Orders.

Another part of this bill has for its object, the putting an end to the order of the Jesuits
and other monastic orders in this country. If your Lordships will look at the act passed in
the year 1791, you will probably see that at that time, as well as in this, it was possible
for one person to make laws through which another might drive a coach and four. My noble and
learned friend (Lord Eldon) will excuse me for saying, that notwithstanding all the pains which
he took to draw up the act of 1791, yet the fact is,--of which there cannot be the smallest
doubt,--that large religious establishments have been regularly formed, not only in Ireland,
but also in this country. The measure which I now propose for your Lordships adoption will
prevent the increase of such establishments, and, without oppression to any individuals, without
injury to any body of men, will gradually put an end to those which have already been formed.
There is no man more convinced than I am of the absolute necessity of carrying into execution
that part of the present measure, which has for its object the extinction of monastic orders
in this country. I entertain no doubt whatever, that if that part of the measure be not carried
into execution, we shall very soon see this country and Ireland inundated by Jesuits and regular
monastic clergy, sent out from other parts of Europe, with means to establish themselves within
his Majesty's kingdom.

April 2, 1829.

       *       *       *       *       *

Rationale of Roman Catholic Exclusion.

My Lords in the Bill of Rights there are some things permanently enacted, which I sincerely
hope will be permanent; these are, the liberties of the people, the security for the Protestantism
of the person on the throne of these kingdoms, and that he shall not be married to a Papist.
There is an oath of allegiance and supremacy to be taken by all those of whom that oath of
allegiance is required, which is also said to be permanent; but it contains no declaration
against transubstantiation. There is also an oath of allegiance different from that which is
to be taken by a member of Parliament. I beg your Lordships will observe, that although this
oath of allegiance was declared permanent, it was altered in the last year of King William.
This shews what that "permanent" act was. Then, with respect to the oaths to be taken by members
of Parliament. I beg your Lordships to observe that these oaths, the declaration against transubstantiation,
and the sacrifice of the mass, are not originally in the act of William III., they are in the
act of 30th Charles II. During the reign of Charles II. there were certain oaths imposed, first
on dissenters from the church of England, by the 12th or 13th Charles II., and to exclude Roman
Catholics by the 25th Charles II., and 30th Charles II. At the period of the Revolution, when
King William came, he thought proper to extend the basis of his government, and he repealed
the oaths affecting the dissenters from the church of England, imposed by the 13th and 14th
Charles II. and likewise that affirmative part of the oath of supremacy, which dissenters from
the church of England could not take. That is the history of the alteration of these oaths
by William III., from the time of Charles II.

But my Lords, the remainder of the oath could be taken by Dissenters, but could not be taken
by Roman Catholics. The danger with respect to Roman Catholics, had arisen in the time of Charles
II., and still existed in the time of William III.; but the oath was altered because one of
the great principles of the Revolution was to limit the exclusion from the benefits of the
constitution as far as it was possible. Therefore we have this as one of the principles I before
stated, derived from the Bill of Rights. The noble Lords state, that what they call the principles
of 1688,--that is to say, these oaths excluding Roman Catholics, are equally permanent with
the Bill of Rights by which the Protestantism of the crown is secured. If they will do me the
favour to look at the words of the act, they will see that the difference is just the difference
between that which is permanent and that which is not permanent. The act says that the Protestantism
of the Crown shall last for ever; but, as for these oaths, they are enacted in exclusive words,
and there is not one word about how long they shall last. Well then, my Lords, what follows?
The next act we have is the act of Union with Scotland; and what does that act say? That the
oaths to be taken by the members of Parliament, as laid down by the 1st of William and Mary
shall continue and be taken till Parliament shall otherwise direct. This is what is called
a permanent act of Parliament, a permanent provision for all future periods, to exclude Catholics
from seats in Parliament. My Lords, I beg to observe that, if the act which excludes Roman
Catholics from seats in Parliament, is permanent, there is another clause, (I believe the 10th
of cap 8. 1st William and Mary) which requires officers of the army and navy to take those
very oaths previous to the acceptance of their commissions. Now if the act made in the first
year of William and Mary, which excludes Roman Catholics from Parliament, is permanent, I should
like to ask noble Lords, why the clause in that act is not equally permanent? I suppose that
the noble and learned Lord will answer my question by saying, that one act was permanent and
ought to be permanently maintained, but that the other act was not permanent, and the Parliament
did right in repealing it in 1817. But the truth of the matter is, that neither act was intended
to be permanent; and the Parliament of Queen Anne recognised by the Act of Union that the first
act, relating to seats in Parliament, was not permanent; and the noble and learned Lord (Eldon)
did right when he consented to the act of 1817, which put an end to the 10th clause of the
1st William III., cap. 8. Then, my Lords, if this principle of exclusion--if this principle
of the constitution of 1688, as it is called, be not permanent,--if it be recognised as not
permanent, not only by the act of union with Scotland, (in which it was said that the exclusive
oath should continue till Parliament otherwise provided,) but also by the late act of Union
with Ireland, I would ask your Lordships, whether you are not at liberty now to consider the
expediency of doing away with it altogether, in order to relieve the country from the inconveniences
to which I have already adverted? I would ask your Lordships, whether you are not called upon
to review the state of the representation of Ireland,--whether you are not called upon to see,
even supposing that the principle were a permanent one, if it be fit that Parliament should
remain, as it has remained for some time, groaning under Popish influence exercised by the
Priests over the elections in Ireland. I would ask your Lordships, I repeat, whether it is
not right to make an arrangement, which has for its object, not only the settlement of this
question, but at the same time to relieve the country from the inconveniences I have mentioned.
I have already stated the manner in which the organization I have alluded to, works upon all
the great interests of the country; but I wish your Lordships particularly to attend to the
manner in which it works upon the church itself. That part of the church of England which exists
in Ireland is in a very peculiar situation; it is the church of the minority of the people.
At the same time, I believe that a more exemplary, a more pious, or a more learned body of
men, than the members of that church do not exist. The members of that church certainly enjoy
and deserve the affections of those whom they are sent to instruct, in the same degree as their
brethren in England enjoy the affections of the people of this country; and I have no doubt
that they would shed the last drop of their blood in defence of the doctrines and discipline
of their church. But violence, I apprehend, is likely to affect the interests of that church;
and I would put it to the House, whether that church can be better protected from violence
by a government united in itself, united with Parliament and united in sentiment with the great
body of the people, or by a government disunited in opinion, disunited from Parliament, and
by the two houses of Parliament disunited. I am certain that no man can look to the situation
of Ireland, without seeing that the interest of the church as well as the interest of every
class of persons under government, is involved in such a settlement of this question, as will
bring with it strength to the government, and strength to every department of the state.

The bill before the House concedes to Roman Catholics the power of holding any office in the
state, excepting a few connected with the administration of the affairs of the church; and
it also concedes to them the power of becoming members of Parliament. I believe it goes further,
with respect to the concession of offices, than any former measure which has been introduced
into the other House of Parliament. I confess that the reasons which induced me to consider
it my duty to make such large concessions now, arose out of the effects which I observed following
the acts proposed in the years 1782 and 1793. I have seen that any restriction upon concession
has only had the effect of increasing the demands of the Roman Catholics, and at the same time
giving them fresh power to enforce those demands. I have, therefore, considered it my duty,
in making this act of concession, to make it as large as any reasonable man can expect it to
be; seeing clearly that any thing which might remain behind would only give ground for fresh
demands, and being convinced that the settlement of this question tends to the security of
the state, and to the peace and prosperity of the country. I have already stated to your lordships
my opinion respecting the expediency of granting seats in Parliament to Roman Catholics; and
I do not conceive, that the concession of seats in Parliament, can in any manner effect any
question relative to the church of England. In the first place, I beg your Lordships to recollect,
that at the time those acts, to which I have before alluded,--the one passed in the 30th of
Charles II., and the other at the period of the Revolution, were enacted--it was not the church
that was in danger--it was the state. It was the state that was in danger; and from what? Not
because the safety of the church was threatened. No; but because the Sovereign on the throne
was suspected of Popery, and because the successor to the throne was actually a Papist. Those
laws were adopted, because of the existence of a danger which threatened the state, and not
of one which threatened the church. On the contrary, at that period danger to the church was
apprehended, not from the Roman Catholics, but from the Dissenters from the church of England.
I would ask of your Lordships, all of whom have read the history of those times, whether any
danger to the church was apprehended from the Roman Catholics? No! Danger to the church was
apprehended from the Dissenters, who had become powerful by the privileges granted to them
under the act of Parliament passed at the period of the Revolution. I think, therefore, that
it is not necessary for me to enter into any justification of myself for having adopted this
measure, on account of any danger which might be apprehended from it to the church. Roman Catholics
will come into Parliament under this bill, as they went into Parliament previous to the act
of 30th Charles II. They sat in Parliament up to that period, and were not obliged to take
the oath of supremacy. But by this bill they will be required to take the oath of allegiance,
in which a great part of the oath of supremacy is included--namely, that part which refers
to the jurisdiction of foreign potentates; and, I must say, that the church, if in danger,
is better secured by the bill than it was previous to the 30th of Charles II. The object for
which that act was recognised at the period of the Revolution--namely, to keep out the house
of Stuart from the throne--has long ceased to exist, by the extinction of that family. It is
the opinion of nearly every considerable man in the country (of nearly all those who are competent
to form a judgment on the question), that the time has now arrived for repealing these laws.
Circumstances have been gradually tending towards their repeal since the extinction of the
house of Stuart; and at last the period has come, when it is quite clear that the repeal can
be no longer delayed with safety to the state.

April 2, 1829.

       *       *       *       *       *

State of Ireland, a Reason for Emancipation.

I know that, by some, it has been considered that the state of Ireland has nothing to do with
this question--that it is a subject which ought to be left entirely out of our consideration.
My Lords, they tell us that Ireland has been disturbed for the last thirty years--that to such
disturbance we have been accustomed--and that it does not at all alter the circumstances of
the case, as they have hitherto appeared. My Lords, it is perfectly true that Ireland has been
disturbed during the long period I have stated, but within the last year or two, there have
been circumstances of particular aggravation. Political circumstances have, in a considerable
degree, occasioned that aggravation; but, besides this, my Lords, I must say, although I have
no positive legal proof of the fact, that I have every reason to believe that there has been
a considerable organization of the people for the purpose of mischief. My Lords, this organization
is, it appears to me, to be proved, not only by the declarations of those who formed, and who
arranged it, but likewise by the effects which it has produced in the election of churchwardens
throughout the country; in the circumstances attending the election for the county of Clare,
and that preceded and followed that election; in the proceedings of a gentleman who went at
the head of a body of men to the north of Ireland; in the simultaneous proceedings of various
bodies of men in the south of Ireland, in Templemore, in Kilenaule, Cahir, Clonmel, and other
places; in the proceedings of another gentleman in the King's county; and in the recall of
the former gentleman from the north of Ireland by the Roman Catholic Association. In all these
circumstances it is quite obvious to me, that there was an organization and direction by some
superior authority. This organization has certainly produced a state of society in Ireland
which we have not heretofore witnessed, and an aggravation of all the evils which before afflicted
that unfortunate country.

My Lords, late in the year, a considerable town was attacked, in the middle of the night by
a body of people who came from the neighbouring mountains--the town of Augher. They attacked
it with arms, and were driven from it with arms by the inhabitants of the town. This is a state
of things which I feel your Lordships will admit ought not to exist in a civilized country.
Later in the year still, a similar event occurred in Charleville; and, in the course of the
last autumn, the Roman Catholic Association deliberated upon the propriety of adopting, and
the means of adopting, the measure of ceasing all dealings between Roman Catholics and Protestants.
Is it possible to believe supposing these dealings had ceased, supposing this measure had been
carried into execution--as I firmly believe it was in the power of those who deliberated upon
it to carry it into execution--is it possible to believe that those who would cease those dealings
would not likewise have ceased to carry into execution the contracts into which they had entered?
Will any man say that people in this situation are not verging towards that state, in which
it would be impossible to expect from them that they would be able to perform the duties of
jurymen, or to administer justice between man and man, for the protection of the lives and
properties of his Majesty's subjects? My Lords, this is the state of society to which I wished
to draw your attention, and for which it is necessary that Parliament should provide a remedy.

April 2, 1829.

       *       *       *       *       *

Emancipation claimed as the Price of the Union.

I am old enough to remember the rebellion in 1798. I was not employed in Ireland at the time--was
employed in another part of his Majesty's dominions; but, my Lords, if I am not mistaken, the
Parliament of Ireland, at that time, walked up to my Lord Lieutenant with an unanimous address,
beseeching his Excellency to take every means to put down that unnatural rebellion, and promising
their full support, in order to carry those measures into execution. The Lord Lieutenant did
take measures, and did succeed in putting down that rebellion. Well, my Lords, what happened
in the very next session? The Government proposed to put an end to the Parliament, and to form
a Legislative Union between the two kingdoms, for the purpose, principally, of proposing this
very measure; and, in point of fact, the very first measure that was proposed after this Legislative
Union, after those successful endeavours to put down this rebellion, was the very measure with
which I am now about to trouble your Lordships. Is it possible noble Lords can believe that,
supposing there was a renewal of the contest to which I have referred--is it possible noble
Lords can believe that such a contest could be carried on without the consent of the other
House of Parliament? I am certain, my Lords, that, when you look at the division of opinion
which prevails in both Houses of Parliament; when you look at the division of opinion which
prevails in every family of this kingdom, and of Ireland--in every family, I say, from the
most eminent in station, down to the lowest in this country;--when you look at the division
of opinion that prevails among the Protestants of Ireland on this subject; I am convinced you
will see that there would be a vast difference in a contest carried on now, and that which
was carried on on former occasions.

April 2, 1829.

       *       *       *       *       *

No Remedy for the State of Ireland but Emancipation.

Neither the law, nor the means in the possession of Government, enabled Government to put an
end to the state of things in Ireland. Therefore, we come to Parliament. Now let us see what
chance there was of providing a remedy for this state of things by coming to Parliament. My
Lords, we all recollect perfectly well, that the opinion of the majority in another place is,
that the remedy for this state of things in Ireland is a repeal of the disabilities affecting
his Majesty's Roman Catholic subjects. We might have gone and asked Parliament to enable us
to put down the Roman Catholic Association; but what chance had we of prevailing upon Parliament
to pass such a bill, without being prepared to come forward and state that we were ready to
consider the whole condition of Ireland, with a view to apply a remedy to that which Parliament
had stated to be the cause of the disease? Suppose that Parliament had given us a bill to put
down the Roman Catholic Association, would such a law as that be a remedy for the state of
things which I have already described to your Lordships as existing in Ireland? Would it do
any one thing towards putting an end to the organization, which I have stated to your Lordships
exists--towards putting down the mischiefs which are the consequences of that organization--towards
giving you the means of getting the better of the state of things existing in Ireland, unless
some further measure were adopted? But, my Lords, it is said, if that will not do, let us proceed
to blows. What is meant by proceeding to "blows," is civil war. Now, I believe that every Government
must be prepared to carry into execution the laws of the country by the force placed at its
disposition, not by the military force, unless it should be absolutely necessary, but by the
military force in case that should be necessary; and, above all things, oppose resistance to
the law, in case the disaffected, or ill-disposed, are inclined to resist the authority, or
sentence of the law; but, in this case, as I have already stated to your Lordships, there was
no resistance of the law--nay, I will go further, and will say that I am positively certain
that this state of things existing in Ireland, for the last year and a half, bordering upon
civil war (being attended by nearly all the evils of civil war), might have continued a considerable
time longer, to the great injury and disgrace of the country, and, nevertheless, those who
managed this state of things--those who were at its head--would have taken care to prevent
any resistance to the law, which must have ended, they knew as well as I did, in the only way
in which a struggle against the King's Government could end. They knew perfectly well they
would have been the first victims of that resistance; but knowing that, and knowing, as I do,
that they are sensible, able men, and perfectly aware of the materials upon which they have
to work, I have not the smallest doubt that the state of things which I have stated to your
Lordships would have continued, and that you would now have had an opportunity of putting it
down in the manner some noble Lords imagined. But, my Lords, even if I had been certain of
such means of putting it down, I should have considered it my duty to avoid those means.

April 2, 1829.

       *       *       *       *       *

Would sacrifice his Life to prevent one Month of Civil War.

I am one of those who have, probably, passed a longer period of my life engaged in war than
most men, and principally in civil war; and, I must say this, that if I could avoid, by any
sacrifice whatever, even one month of civil war in the country to which I was attached, I would
sacrifice my life in order to do it. I say, there is nothing which destroys property, eats
up prosperity by the roots, and demoralizes the character, to the degree that civil war does;
in such a crisis, the hand of man is raised against his neighbour, against his brother, and
against his father; servant betrays master, and the whole scene ends in confusion and devastation.
Yet, my Lords, this is the resource to which we must have looked--these are the means which
we must have applied, in order to have put an end to this state of things, if we had not made
the option of bringing forward the measures, for which, I say, I am responsible. But let us
look a little further. If civil war is so bad, when it is occasioned by resistance to the Government,
if it is so bad in the case I have stated, and so much to be avoided, how much more is it to
be avoided, when we are to arm the people, in order that we may conquer one part of them, by
exciting the other part against them?

April 2, 1829.

       *       *       *       *       *

Defence of the Government from the Charge of Inconsistency.

Another subject to which I wish to advert, is a charge brought against several of my colleagues,
and also against myself, of a want of consistency in our conduct. My Lords, I admit that many
of my colleagues, as well as myself, did on former occasions, vote against a measure of a similar
description with this; and my Lords, I must say, that my colleagues and myself felt, when we
adopted this measure, that we should be sacrificing ourselves, and our popularity to that which
we felt to be our duty to our sovereign and our country.

We knew very well that if we put ourselves at the head of the Protestant cry of "No Popery,"
we should be much more popular even than those who have excited that very cry against us. But
we felt that, in so doing, we should have left on the interests of the country a burden, which
must end in bearing them down; and further, that we should deserve the hate and execration
of our countrymen. The noble Earl on the cross bench (Winchelsea) has adverted particularly
to me, and has mentioned in terms of civility the services which he says I have rendered to
the country; but I must tell the noble Earl that be those services what they may, I rendered
them through good repute, and through bad repute, and that I was never prevented from rendering
them by any cry which was excited against me at the moment. Then, I am accused by a noble and
learned friend of mine, (the Earl of Eldon) of having acted with great secresy respecting this
measure. Now I beg to tell my noble and learned friend--and I am sorry that, in the course
of these discussions, anything has passed which has been unpleasant to my noble and learned
friend,--I beg to tell him, I say, that, he has done that to me in the course of this discussion
which he complains of others having done to him;--in other words, he has, in the words of a
right honourable friend of his and mine, thrown a large paving stone, instead of throwing a
small pebble stone. I say, that if my noble and learned friend accuses me of acting with secresy
on this question, he does not deal with me altogether fairly. He knows, as well as I do, how
the Cabinet was constructed on this question; and I ask him, had I any right to say a single
word to any man whatsoever on this measure, until the person most interested in the kingdom
upon it had given his consent to my speaking out? I say, that before my noble and learned friend
accused me of secresy, and improper secresy too, he ought to have known the precise day upon
which I received the permission of the highest personage in this country; and he ought not
to have accused me of improper conduct, until he knew the day on which I had leave to open
my mouth upon this measure. There is another point also upon which the noble Earl accused me
of misconduct, and that is that I did not at once dissolve the parliament. Now, I must say,
that I think noble Lords are mistaken in the notion of the benefits which they think they would
derive from a dissolution of parliament at this crisis. I believe that many of them are not
aware of the consequences and of the inconveniences of a dissolution of parliament at any time.
But when I knew, as I did know, and as I do know, the state of the elective franchise in Ireland
in the course of last summer,--when I knew the consequences which a dissolution would produce
on the return to the house of commons, to say nothing of the risk which must have occurred
at each election,--of collisions that might have led to something little short of civil war,--I
say, that knowing all these things, I should have been wanting in duty to my Sovereign, and
to my country, if I had advised his Majesty to dissolve his parliament.

April 4, 1829.

       *       *       *       *       *

No Danger to the Church from the Emancipation Bill.

It has been repeatedly assumed by many of your Lordships in the course of the discussion, but
particularly by the right reverend Prelates who have spoken, that the church of Ireland (or,
as I have recently been reminded, the church of England in Ireland) is in danger. I call on
those who apprehend that danger to state clearly whether that danger, on this particular occasion,
is more to be expected as resulting from legislation, or from violence. If they say it is resulting
from legislation, I answer that their apprehensions are puerile. It is impossible to suppose
that a small number of persons admitted into this house, and a small number admitted into the
other house, while we have a Protestant Sovereign upon the throne, should be productive of
legislative danger to the church of England in Ireland. I beg to observe, with respect to the
point relating to the union of the two countries, that a fundamental article of the union is
the junction of the two Churches, called the United Churches of England and Ireland. It is
impossible, therefore, that any mischief can occur to the Church of Ireland, without a breach
in the union of the two countries. There is another point to which I beg leave to advert for
a moment. Although it is true that we do admit into parliament members of the Roman Catholic
persuasion, yet, at the same time, by another measure brought forward with it, and on which
we equally rely, we propose regulations which will have the effect of destroying the influence
of the Catholic priesthood in the election of members of parliament. We have carefully examined
the measure, and do expect that it will give additional security to all the interests of the state.

April 4, 1829.

       *       *       *       *       *

English Soldiers respect the Religion of other Nations.

Although I have served in my profession in several countries, and among foreigners, some of
whom professed various forms of the Christian religion, while others did not profess it at
all; I never was in one in which it was not the bounden duty of the soldier to pay proper deference
and respect to whatever happened to be the religious institutions or ceremonies of the place
where he might happen to be. We soldiers do not go into these foreign countries to become parties
to the religious differences of the people, or to trouble ourselves with their notions upon
matters of faith. We go to perform a very different kind of duty,--one which is purely military,
and has no reference to the people's religion. I confess I never heard, however, that it was
our custom to take any part in their religious rites, nor do I believe we have taken any such
part. Indeed, I have never heard of anything like any co-operation by our soldiers of military
parade, except at Malta, where I know it has long been the practice of the garrison to direct
some artillery officers to cause a few small guns to be fired, as some particular procession
passes the platform. And I know that certain officers of the artillery, or military, three
of them, I believe, thought proper on military grounds, and not upon religious scruples, to
refuse to fire, according to the usual order of their commandant--for such refusal they were
brought to a court-martial, and sentenced to be cashiered, not because they would not form
a part of any religious procession to which they were hostile--not because they would not conform
to the rites of the natives, and worship any relic that was honoured by them; but for this
plain and intelligible reason,--that they had taken upon themselves to refuse obedience to
the orders of the commander-in-chief on the spot.

April 8, 1829.

       *       *       *       *       *

The real meaning of Irish Agitation.

If you glance at the history of Ireland during the last ten years, you will find that agitation
really means something just short of rebellion; that, and no other, is the exact meaning of
the word. It is to place the country in that state in which its government is utterly impracticable,
except by means of an overawing military force.

May 4, 1829.

Theory of a Metallic Currency.

The restoration of the currency, my Lords, has, in truth, but little to do with the distress
of the country. Since the restoration of the currency, the revenue has risen to the amount
which has been stated to your Lordships, notwithstanding the repeal of taxes to the amount
of 27,000,000 l., since 1814. The fact is, that at the present moment, the revenue produces,
in real currency, much more than it produced when the war was terminated. Is not that circumstance
alone, I ask your Lordships, a proof of the increasing prosperity of the country? But, my Lords,
I did not rest my argument on that fact only. Notwithstanding, there is, at present, much distress,
still, in the last year, there was an increase of produce in every branch of manufacture, in
every branch of industry, beyond what was apparent in the three preceding years. Under these
circumstances, your Lordships must ascribe the distress of the country to something else, rather
than to the alteration of the currency. My opinion is, that the people, during the lengthened
war which existed previously to the peace of 1815--during that period, when there was an enormous
expenditure--acquired habits which they cannot readily throw aside. During that time, any man,
of whatever description of credit, could obtain money, or the semblance of money, to carry
on any speculation. The people then employed a fictitious wealth; they proceeded on a system,
which could not be continued, without mining and destroying the country; and that system having
been destroyed, that fictitious wealth having been removed, they cannot immediately come down
to those quiet habits, which are required from them under that state of things now prevailing
in the empire. That, my Lords, is the real cause of the distress under which they are at present
suffering. Besides, your Lordships will recollect, that the population of the country has enormously
increased; and it should also be taken into the calculation, that the power of production by
machinery has increased in an incalculable degree. As much can now be produced in one year,
as formerly could be produced in five years; and the produce of one year now amounts to more
than can be taken off our hands in a year and a half, or even two years. Distress, therefore,
has occurred, notwithstanding that the utmost exertions have been made to repel it; and notwithstanding
the great and general prosperity of trade throughout the world. My Lords, the plain fact is,
that owing to the alterations of trade--a great demand at one time, and a want of demand at
another--the manufacturers, and those engaged in commercial pursuits, must sustain considerable
distress at different periods. It has been recommended as a remedy, that Government should
go back to the system of the circulation of the notes. Now, my Lords, with respect to the one-pound
bank notes--it will be well to recollect what has been the proceeding of Parliament on that
subject. In 1826, Parliament having seen the facility with which speculations could be undertaken
by persons possessing no capital, in consequence of the circulation of those one-pound bank-notes--looking
to the evils that resulted from those speculations, and finding that a great number of banks
in the country had failed in consequence of such speculations--thought proper to pass a law
to prevent the circulation of this species of paper, after the lapse of three years. A noble
Lord has said, that this measure of Parliament occasioned the failure of a great number of
country bankers. But, I beg the noble Lord's pardon, he has not stated the fact correctly.
Most of the banks which about that period failed, it ought to be recollected, broke previously
to the meeting of Parliament. The fact is, that it was the breaking of the banks which occasioned
the measure, and not the measure the breaking of the banks. But we have now accomplished the
measure adopted in 1826; that measure is now carried into execution; the currency of the country
is now sufficient; bank notes, 5l., and above 5l., in value, are in circulation; and I will
assert this fact, that there is at present more of what I may call State currency in circulation--more
notes of the Bank of England and sovereigns--a greater quantity of circulating medium of those
two denominations, than there has been at any former period before the late war, or before
the Bank Restriction Act was passed. I beg leave, my Lords, to ask, what want is there of any
additional circulation, when the circulation is at present greater than it ever was? Is it
necessary to have a more extended circulation, to afford the means of procuring loans of money
to those who have no capital and no credit? I contend that this is a state of things that ought
not to exist in any country. Persons who really possess credit, can raise money at the present
moment with every facility that is reasonable or proper. But, undoubtedly, those who have no
credit, are deprived of the facilities of borrowing money, which they formerly enjoyed, because
there is no longer a large class of persons dealing in one-pound notes, to assist them in carrying
on their speculations. This is the real state of the case. It was this situation of affairs
that gave rise, and justly gave rise, to the measure of 1826--a measure which, I trust, that
Parliament will persevere in, for the purpose of placing the country in a proper state. It
has been said truly, that nothing is so desirable as to see the country carrying on its mercantile
transactions with a paper currency founded on, and supported by, a metallic basis. Now, your
Lordships must be aware, that is exactly the sort of currency which the country has got at
present; and, in proportion as the country goes on conquering its difficulties--the existence
of that currency still being continued--we shall see prosperity daily revive, and we shall
see mercantile transactions carried on as they ought to be, without any mixture of those ruinous
speculations, to which so much of the prevailing distress must be attributed. But, my Lords,
the noble Lord in tracing out the sources of this distress, has omitted one of the great causes
of it. He has not adverted to the immense loss of capital which has been sustained by the country
during the last six or eight years, in consequence of loans to foreign powers--of which neither
principal or interest has been paid, nor ever will, in my opinion, be paid. The noble Lord
has not adverted to the effect which that loss of capital must have produced, with respect
to the employment of industry in all parts of the country. In the next place, the noble Lord
has not adverted to the effect which those loans must have had on the trade and manufactures
of the country, in consequence of the glut in foreign markets, occasioned by the forced exportation
of goods on account of such transactions. In most instances, my Lords, no returns were made
on account of those goods, and even when returns were made, they were of the most unsatisfactory
description. The noble Lord has not adverted to the fact, that these returns, when any were
received, came home in the shape of interest, and did not, of course, require any demand or
export from this country. Surely all these things should be considered, when the noble Lord
speaks of the distress the country is labouring under. That distress has fallen not only on
the manufacturing and commercial interests, but also on those who have encouraged and embarked
in the various schemes and speculations which have done the country so much mischief.

May 26, 1829.

       *       *       *       *       *

Extended Currency means unlimited creation of Paper Money by Individuals.

I will now say a few words upon the remedy proposed by the noble Lord (the Earl of Carnarvon),
who has totally misunderstood the argument of the noble Viscount (Goderich). My noble Friend
stated that the revenue, in 1815, was 80,000,000 l. sterling, in paper currency; that taxes
were first of all repealed to the amount of 18,000,000 l., and afterwards to the amount of
9,000,000 l., making in all 27,000.000 l.; and he says that the revenue now produces, in a
sound currency, as great an amount as it produced in a depreciated currency; that is to say,
that it produces now a sum, in sound currency, which, in paper currency, would amount to 80,000,000
l. sterling. Those persons who consume the articles which produce the revenue, must be able
to purchase them, or the revenue could not exist. The increase of the revenue is a proof, then,
that consumption has increased full one-third since the time when the taxes were reduced. It
is utterly impossible that a country in which, within a period of fifteen years, the revenue
has risen one-third, can be suffering universal and unexampled distress. The noble Lord has
thought proper to refer the distress to a deficient circulation, and he recommends a system
which he thinks would remedy the evil. Now, I will tell the noble Earl that the largest amount
of currency in circulation, at any time during the Bank Restriction Act, was 65,000,000 l.
sterling. The Bank of England notes were 20,000,000 l.; country bank paper, 23,000,000 l.;
gold, 4,000,000 l.; and, silver, 7,000,000 l. But, in 1830, the amount of Bank of England paper
in circulation is 19,900,000 l.; and, of country bank paper, 9,200,000 l.; of gold, 28,000,000
l.; and, of silver. 8,000,000 l.; making a total of 65,000,000 l. It is certain, therefore,
that there is more money in circulation now, than there was at any period of the Bank restriction.
There can be no want, therefore, of more currency. The noble Earl says he wants an extended
currency; but what he, in fact, wants, is not an extended currency, but an unlimited currency.
He would give an unlimited power to certain individuals, not to the Crown, to coin as much
money as they please. The noble Lord wants to give them the power of lending capital to whomsoever
they might think proper thus to indulge. That is what the noble Lord recommends, but that is
what, I say, cannot be allowed, without bringing the country again to the brink of ruin, from
which it was extricated in the year 1826.

The noble Lord tells you that, heretofore, a farmer, with a good stock, was able to borrow
capital to carry on his business; but that now, let his corn-yard be ever so full, he cannot
borrow a shilling, because the banker has not the power of giving him one-pound notes. The
noble Lord says--the banker gets no interest upon his own capital, and therefore will not lend
it. My Lords, the banker who lends his capital to a farmer, or trader, does obtain interest
for the use of it, in the shape of discount upon the bill, or other security, which the borrower
gives him. The question with him, at present, is one of security, and not of profit. If the
banker should lend, under existing circumstances, he must lend his own real capital, and not
a fictitious capital in the shape of one pound notes, created for the purpose. He must be certain
that the security given to him is good and available, as it ought to be; and if he is not satisfied
with the profits arising from the use of his capital, it is because he thinks the risk is so
great as not to be covered by the profits. The noble Lord would wish to pledge your Lordships,
by your votes this night, to give the country bankers additional profits, by enabling them
to coin money, or to create fictitious paper to any extent, and thus to create a fictitious
capital.

February 4, 1830.

       *       *       *       *       *

Taxes reduced under a Metallic Currency.

In answer to all the declamations we have heard this night respecting the evils resulting from
a metallic currency, I beg leave to remind the House of some facts; since the year 1815, and
principally since the Bank restriction was taken off, measures have been adopted to relieve
the country of taxes to the amount of 27,000,000 l. sterling; and measures have been also adopted
which have reduced the charges of the national debt between 3,000,000 l. and 4,000,000 l. a
year, that being the interest on nearly 100,000,000 l. sterling. I beg your Lordships will
bear this circumstance in mind; and let me tell you, that all the advantages of a so-called
equitable adjustment will never equal the advantage already obtained from an adherence to the
principles of justice and good faith.

February 4, 1830.

Causes of Manufacturing Distress.

I wish to know whether the competition of machinery and the universal application of steam
which has been generally introduced since the peace, have not occasioned a decrease in the
demand for labour, and have not lowered the wages of labour in manufactures? Must we not take
into consideration the general spirit of manufacture abroad, the competition of foreign nations
in foreign markets, and the universal use of machinery worked by steam? How can we control
the subjects of foreign powers? We must seek foreign markets for our surplus produce. How can
we prevent steam from creating competition abroad in the sale of that produce, as well as a
fall in the wages of manufactures, and thus occasioning a part of the distress complained of?

Feb. 4, 1830.

       *       *       *       *       *

Distress exaggerated.

If the exports of Great Britain have gone on increasing for some years--if they were greater
last year than in any former year--if the amount of our exports is now greater than ever it
was,--I say, not only that these are the strongest symptoms of the prosperity of the country
increasing, but that the distress cannot be so great and unexampled as the noble Earl (Carnarvon)
would make it. There is not a rail-road, or a common road, or a canal in the country, on which
the traffic has not increased every year during the last few years, and particularly in the
last year. It may be true that there is a diminution of profit in commercial transactions in
general; but profit there must be, or men would not devote themselves for years to these pursuits.
Money would not be laid out in the conveyance from place to place of the produce and manufactures
of the country. The traffic being greater than ever it was before, it is impossible but what
it must be to the advantage of somebody. The distress then cannot be so universal as represented.
The profit and advantage may not be so great as they were some years back; but still advantage
there is.

There are other circumstances well worthy the attention of the House in the consideration of
this subject. The retail dealers are a very numerous body in this country. Consider of their
profits. Look at nearly every market town in the kingdom, and many villages in progress towards
being rebuilt. Who pays the money for re-building these houses? Who pays the increased rents
for them? Are the people ruined who require and can pay for these new houses? My Lords, these
are facts which do shew that, notwithstanding the existing distress which every man must deplore,
the country, in spite of the pressure upon it, is upon the whole, rising.

Feb. 4, 1830.

       *       *       *       *       *

Proofs of National Improvement in 1830.

Among other topics of accusation, I have been arraigned for my assertion on the first day of
the session, that the distress of the country was not of that magnitude which some persons
have affirmed. The noble Lord (Stanhope) is quite at liberty to indulge in such invectives
if it pleases him to do so, but if he supposes I do not feel for the distresses of the people,
he is utterly mistaken, as I can sincerely aver that I have as strong sympathies on the subject
as any noble member of this house. But I am resolved to tell plainly and honestly what I think,
quite regardless of the odium I may incur from those whose prejudices my candour and sincerity
may offend. I am here to speak the truth and not to flatter the prejudices and prepossessions
of any man. In speaking the truth, I shall utter it in the language that truth itself most
naturally suggests.

       *       *       *       *       *

I request your Lordships to look at the state of the savings banks. A measure was sometime
back adopted to prevent the investment of money in these banks beyond a certain amount for
each person, in order that the parties not entitled to it should not derive the advantage which
is intended for the poorer classes. Large sums were drawn out of those banks soon after; but
they have since revived in some degree. Whence has the money come? From the lower classes.
This cannot be considered as a proof of general distress. Your Lordships ought likewise not
to omit from your consideration the increased traffic carried on the railroads and canals in
the country. The noble Earl (Roseberry) has told your Lordships, that I have availed myself
of the increased traffic upon the roads and canals by merchants and manufacturers--in despair
seeking a market--in order to represent the country in a state of prosperity; whereas it is
an additional symptom of distress. My Lords, I said that this traffic had been increasing for
years; and that it had, in some cases, doubled in ten years. In one of the recent discussions
in this House, upon the currency, the noble Marquis opposite (the Marquis of Lansdowne) very
truly remarked,--that a large quantity of currency might be found in a country in which there
should be little riches and prosperity; and that the facility and rapidity of the circulation
of the currency were signs of the prosperity of a country, rather than the quantity of that
currency. I entirely concur in the truth and justice of this observation. But I would beg to
ask the noble Marquis whether it is possible that transactions can increase and multiply as
they have done in this country, in the last few years, without giving fresh scope for the circulation
of the currency of the country, fresh employment for labour, and occasioning, in some degree,
the augmentation of general prosperity.

Feb. 25, 1850.

       *       *       *       *       *

Causes of Manufacturing Distress, over which Parliament can have no Control.

There can be no doubt that there has been, of late years, a great increase of manufactures
and manufactured produce in this country. It is true, that this produce has given to the manufacturer
but little profit, and that the wages of the manufacturing labourer are low; but, as I will
show presently, the circumstance, equally with the cause of the agricultural distress, is beyond
legislative control.

My Lords, it is impossible to consider this branch of the subject without adverting likewise
to the state of the commerce of the country. The produce of the manufactures of the country
is greater than the country can consume; and, consequently, the price and the reward of the
labourer must depend upon the foreign demand, as well as upon the demand at home.

In respect to the distress felt by manufacturing labourers, there can be no doubt that the
wages of manual labour have been lowered by the successful application of steam to the movement
of machinery for the purpose of manufacture. Here, my Lords, is a cause of distress over which
the Legislature has no practical control. As I go further in my observations upon the speech
of the Noble Earl (Stanhope) who made the motion,[12] I will point out other causes of distress
equally beyond the control of the Legislature.

[Footnote 12: For an inquiry into the state of the nation.]

My Lords, let me beg to call to the recollection of the House the state in which the world
was at the end of the war in the years 1814 and 1815. Europe was absolutely overrun with armies,
and had been so for about twenty years. There was absolutely nothing but armies in the world,
and nothing was thought of but the means of sustaining them. Except in France and this country,
there were but few manufacturers in Europe; but when the peace took place, all the world became
manufacturers. I have already stated, that the country manufacturing more than it consumes,
is under the necessity of resorting to foreign countries, and foreign markets with its produce,
where this produce necessarily comes in competition with the manufactured produce of foreign
countries, brought there by cheaper labour, and by machinery worked by steam. The prices in
those foreign countries, of necessity, govern the prices in this country. Here again is a cause
of the existing distress, over which it will be admitted, that the Legislature can have no
control. Nothing that it is in our power to do, will raise prices abroad; and till these prices
shall be raised, the prices of our produce must continue low, and profits and wages must be
low likewise.

But, my Lords, low as the prices of our produce are, compared with those of former years, those
of other countries have fallen in a still greater proportion. My Lords, I will read, from a
paper I hold in my hand, a few extracts of prices in different parts of the country, since
the peace of 1814. Raw cotton in England, in 1814 and 1815, sold at 2s. 2d. the pound, or with
duty included at 2s. 4d. In 1816 and 1817 it sold at 1s. 8d1/2., and in 1829, at 6d. This was
a fall in price greater than had taken place in any other article. Silk, in 1814, sold for
1l. 4s., or with duty included, 1l. 9s.; whilst in 1829 it sold for 8s. 10d., or with the duty,
8s. 11d. the pound. Spanish wool, in 1814, sold for 8s. 2d., or with the duty, at 8s. 3d.;
whilst in 1829 it sold for only 2s. 3d., or with the duty at 2s. 4d. Another article, that
of fir-timber, fell in proportion. It was then 3l. 14s. 11d. the load, and with the duty, 10l.
5s.; it is now 2l. 5s., and with the duty, 4l. 19s. This fall in the price of foreign produce,
and in our domestic manufactures, added to the advantage which the master manufacturers derived
from the use of machinery moved by steam, and from the lowness of wages, have given them a
greater advantage; and have enabled them to make a profit, notwithstanding the fall of prices
of the produce of their manufactures since the war.

On articles of manufacture the prices are still lower than those of corn and other agricultural
produce. Cotton yarn, which sold for 4s. 4-1/2d. the pound in 1814, in 1830 sells for 1s. 5-1/2d.;
and cotton manufactured goods have altered in price within the same period from 1s. 5d. to
1s. 8d. and 2s. 0-1/2d., to 6-1/4d., 8-3/4d., and 8-1/2d., or nearly a third. Irish linens
have fallen from 1s. 7d. to 1s. 0-3/4d.; woollen cloths in the same proportion. Other articles
have been reduced enormously in price by the competition with foreigners. In those articles
in which there is no competition with foreigners, prices have been reduced, but not in the
same proportion; such, for instance, as in the iron, the pottery, and other trades. Here, then,
are causes evidently beyond the control of Parliament. Parliament cannot raise the price of
manufactured goods--the thing is impossible.

February 25, 1830.

Principle of Reduction in the Public Service.

When offices become vacant, the Government always consider whether the public service could
not go on without their being filled up; the next point is, to consider whether the place could
not be filled up by some persons who already receive half-pay or pensions, so that the half-pay
or pension might be saved to the public. We have tried to reduce the list of pensions of the
army and navy, by keeping men in the service the full time they ought to serve, according to
the original institutions of the army. I should deceive the House by saying that savings could
be beneficial if made at the expense of individuals who must be thrown on the public as soon
as they were made.

February 23, 1830.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Corn Law of 1828 worked well.

The measure of 1828 has worked well to promote the objects which the Legislature had in view
in passing it, by preventing the price of corn from rising so high in a season of scarcity
as to be injurious to the country at large, and particularly to that part of the population
engaged in manufacture; whilst, both in that season and the season which followed, the price
has been sufficient to give the agriculturist a fair value for his commodity. In the second
year of the existence of that law, a greater import of corn took place than ever, to the extent
of 5,000,000 of quarters, of which 2,500,000 were from Ireland, and the prices have not been
lowered in this country, beyond what is deemed a remunerating price to the agriculturists.
With reference to another branch of Agriculture, I have means of proving that the prices received
for other articles of agricultural produce, such as meat, timber, &c. are equal to what they
were in times when the country paid a very large amount of taxes, and the Bank Restriction
Act was in force.

Feb. 26, 1830.

       *       *       *       *       *

I am convinced the corn laws cannot be repealed without injury to the country.

Feb. 25, 1830.

       *       *       *       *       *

Establishments necessary to maintain the National Honour.

It is perfectly true, that this island is but a small portion of the globe, yet its interests
are extended over all the world, and must be maintained, though at a great expense. Now the
expense necessary for the maintenance of the honour and interests of this country (and over
that alone have we any control), is at present only 12,000,000 l. of money; for there has been
a decrease, in the present and last sessions of Parliament of not less than 2,000,000 l. on
this part of the expenditure; and your Lordships must know that there are other portions of
the national expenditure, which cannot be touched at all. With respect to that part which cannot
be touched, his Majesty's Government have effected all that they possibly could. Having said
this, I must claim for myself and my colleagues in office, credit for an anxious desire to
do everything in our power to diminish the expenditure. With respect to the amount of expenses
incurred on account of our Colonies, I believe that the number of troops in the old colonies
and places occupied by a military force previously to 1792, is now reduced lower than it was
in that year. This country, however, in the course of the last war, made very considerable
conquests; those conquests require for their maintenance large bodies of men, and, consequently,
create a great additional expense. They require for their protection very nearly as many troops
as the old colonies. Before the war we were not masters of the Cape of Good Hope, of the Mauritius,
or of Ceylon. In the Mediterranean, we had no station, unless Gibraltar can be deemed one,
which is not the case now. My Lords, it is obvious, that all the new stations which we have
acquired, demand a larger force for their protection. These things considered, it appears to
me, that the military establishment has been reduced as far as it can be reduced, a proper
regard being had to the interests of the empire.

March 4, 1830.

Difficulty of Legislating on the Poor Laws.

It should be recollected that some of the greatest men that ever lived in England--including
Mr. Pitt and Mr. Whitbread--attempted to deal with the difficult subject of the poor laws,
and failed. It is a subject equally important, difficult, and complicated. The system, as far
as local practice and arrangements go, varies in almost every parish of England more or less;
and, I repeat, it is almost impossible to deal with it successfully. We ought not to enter
into the subject of the poor laws hastily, or at an inopportune period like the present. It
will be better to wait till the country is restored to a state of complete prosperity, and
then investigate the subject with a proper degree of attention.

March 18, 1830.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Home Market is the best.

The greatest difficulty is experienced by our manufacturers in exporting their manufactures.
In some countries there is a total prohibition of them; in others there is an extremely high
duty; and in all there is much competition and jealousy. The Government, in every one of those
foreign countries, seems to do everything in its power to prevent the sale of British manufactures.
I am convinced, if we went to the Continent, and purchased all the corn in Poland, not an additional
article should we be able to force into France, Germany, Prussia, or Russia, If the merchants
of this country were allowed freely to purchase grain, foreign subjects would get as much for
their corn as they possibly could; but their rulers would not allow a single article of our
manufactures to be imported in consequence of our being obliged to buy, or in return for our
buying the grain of those countries. There is, undoubtedly, a certain quantity of manufactures
in this country more than the population itself can consume, which it would be very desirable
to get rid of. But, my Lords, is it exactly true, that taking foreign corn would have the effect
of enabling other countries to purchase them? And even if such were the case, what are we to
do with our own corn?

Now, my Lords, if the buying corn of the Pole, the Russian, or the Prussian, enable them to
give high prices for our manufactures, why do not you give the same advantages to those nearer
home? For my own part, I believe, after all, that the home market is our best resource, and
that there we dispose of the greatest proportion of our manufactured articles. It has, and
I think with truth, been stated, that two-thirds of the whole quantity of our manufactures
are disposed of in this country. The whole of our woollen and the whole of our silk manufactures
are consumed here; and of iron and other manufactures, a very considerable portion. I ask,
then, if such profits are to be derived from an exchange with a foreign market, why do you
not cultivate the home, which is admitted to be decidedly the best market of all. I think the
more this matter is discussed, the more will the country see that the interests of one class
of the community involve the interests of all. We are not to look merely to the interests of
the cotton manufacturers, or of the iron manufacturers. That which we are bound to consider
is the benefit of all; and, in my opinion, the common good will be most effectually secured,
by getting the greatest quantity of provisions for the whole community,--by giving a proper
remuneration to those who produce such provisions,--and thus encouraging them to do that which
is most beneficial to the community at large.

March 29, 1830.

       *       *       *       *       *

How far the principle of Equitable Adjustment should be carried.

The noble Lord (Viscount Goderich), speaking with his usual candour on the subject of the equitable
adjustment, admitted the existence of an increase of price during some years of the war generally,
and consequently of public expense and of debt, to the amount of 20 per cent, in consequence
of the depreciation of the currency; and he has made a calculation of a supposed equitable
adjustment, founded upon his estimate of the expense of the war for some years, and of the
debt created by the excess of price. It is true that there was a very large increase of prices
in England during the war; that this increase of prices increased the expense of the war; and
the amount of debt successively raised. But it is not true that the excess of prices was occasioned
solely by the paper currency. Many other circumstances occasioned it; and in my opinion, my
noble friend has admitted too much in admitting that the annual payment on account of the debt
has been increased to the amount of 3,500,000 l. in consequence of the paper money circulated
during the war.

Having frequently heard of an equitable adjustment, which, however, is absolutely impracticable
as a measure to be applied solely to the national creditor, it has always appeared to me, that
such an arrangement could be calculated only on the foundation of the difference between the
currency, or the market price of gold, and the mint price of gold, at the period at which the
Bank restriction was repealed, or in the year 1812. That difference was at that period about
4 per cent; or the difference between 3l. 17s. 10-1/2d., and 4l. 1s. The annual payment on
account of the debt at that time, amounted to about 30,000,000 l. sterling; upon which what
is called an equitable adjustment might, at that time, have been made to the amount of 5 per
cent., or 1,200,000 l. In making this supposed equitable adjustment, we should have betrayed
the honour of the country; we should have destroyed its credit and reputation for fair dealing,
justice, and honesty; and, for this paltry diminution of the annual expense of the debt in
1819, we should have lost the advantages since acquired, as detailed to the House by my noble
friend, amounting to a diminution of the annual charge of the debt, not of 1,200,000 l., but
nearly of 5,500,000 l. or the interest of 150,000,000 l. of capital at 3 per cent. This is
a fair calculation of the comparative advantage of what has been done, and what might have
been done, by a supposed equitable adjustment.

May 6th, 1830.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Shipping Interest has not been Neglected.

These reciprocity treaties were adopted with a view to decrease the price of freight in this
country to our merchants, and with a view to their taking in abroad, and bringing home, their
commodities at a cheaper cost of transit. These treaties were, my Lords, framed with a foresight
of the state of commerce which was likely to ensue in the world in future times which were
then immediately before us. We were, therefore, to diminish the expense of shipping to meet
the new contingencies; and to enable those engaged in commerce to carry on their trade under
all the difficulties of a new situation; and the object of those laws was to lower the price
of commodities for that purpose. What was the result?--profits upon specific articles became
reduced; but since the year 1814 the trade in them has nearly doubled. What the shipping interest
then lost in the reduced amount of freight per tonnage, they regained in the greater number
of voyages which commerce opened to them.

May 13th, 1830.

       *       *       *       *       *

Eulogium on George IV.

My lords, our late Sovereign received the best education which this country affords. He had,
also, the singular advantage of having passed all the earlier period of his life, and the greater
part of his manhood, under the superintendence of the King, his father, and subsequently in
the society of the most eminent men whom this country possessed; and he likewise enjoyed the
society of the most distinguished foreigners who resorted to this country. His Majesty's manners
accordingly received a polish, his understanding acquired a degree of cultivation, almost unknown
in any other individual. My Lords, he carried those advantages to the Government to which he
was afterwards called, first as a Regent, and afterwards as reigning sovereign. During the
whole course of his government no man ever approached him without having evidence of his dignity,
his condescension, his affability, and his fitness for the exalted station which he occupied.
But these advantages, which shewed so conspicuously the polish of manner which he possessed,
were not only observed by persons immediately around him, for I appeal to many of your Lordships
who have transacted the business of the country which required an interview with the sovereign,
whether his Majesty did not upon every occasion display a degree of knowledge and talent not
to be expected of an individual holding his high station, and a profound acquaintance with
public business even in its most minute details. But this is not all, he was a most munificent
patron of the arts in this country and the whole world. He possessed a larger collection of
the eminent productions of his own country's artists, than any individual, and it is as an
individual, of him I here speak. The taste and judgment he displayed in these collections have
never been excelled by any sovereign.

I would also beg to call to your Lordships' recollection the situation in which he found England
and Europe in the year 1810, when he became Regent, and the situation in which he has left
Europe and this country. If your Lordships look upon the great and stirring events of his reign,
under what circumstances it commenced and terminated, I think you will agree with me in the
sentiment, that we have reason to feel proud of such a sovereign.

June 29th, 1830

       *       *       *       *       *

Principle of advances of Money for Public Works.

A noble Lord has cited an opinion of mine with respect to the advance of money for public works;
to the principle laid down in the letter to which he alludes, I still adhere,--that no money
should be advanced as a grant, for works of that description, even though they may be very
useful; but, my Lords, I repeat, that there is a great distinction between on advance of money
and a loan. The application of the proprietors of the Thames Tunnel, was for an advance of
money, and not a loan; the parties, there, were not in a condition to pay the interest even
of the money to be advanced, and therefore the application was refused, but my Lords, in the
present case the money is advanced on the security of the tolls payable on a canal; yet even
on that ground it would not be advanced, unless it were shown that the work will be of advantage
not only to the province, but to the empire at large.

July 2nd, 1830

       *       *       *       *       *

Declaration against Parliamentary Reform.

I now come to another point touched upon in his Majesty's speech, from which, as well as the
allusions to it to-night, I have experienced considerable pain; I allude to the state of the
public mind in Kent. Upon this point I cannot help agreeing in what fell from the noble Marquis,
(Camden) the Lord Lieutenant of that county, who spoke early in the evening, namely,--that
it is not to be exactly attributed to the distress prevailing there. It certainly does appear,
from all I have heard, that the outrages are carried on by two different sets of people; one
of which attack machinery, which they think interferes with their labour; and the other of
which are engaged in burning and destroying property. What the immediate cause of these disturbances
is, the government know no more than the magistrates and gentlemen of the county. We shall
do all in our power in concert with these magistrates, and the Lord Lieutenant, to discover
it; and, in the mean time, we shall afford them aid to put the law in force in order to prevent
them.

This brings me to the recommendation which the noble Earl (Grey) has made, not only to put
down these disturbances, but to put the country in a state to meet and overcome the dangers
which are likely to result from the late transactions in France, namely,--the adoption of something
in the nature of parliamentary reform. The noble Earl has stated that he is not prepared, himself,
to come forward with any measure of the kind; and I will tell him that neither is the government.
Nay, I will go farther, and say, that I have not heard of any measure, up to this moment, which
could in any degree satisfy my mind, or by which the state of the representation could be improved
or placed on a footing more satisfactory to the people of this country than it now is.

I will not now enter upon the discussion of this subject, as I dare say we shall have plenty
of opportunities for doing so; but I will say, that I am thoroughly convinced that England
possesses, at this moment, a legislature which answers all the good purposes of a legislature,
in a higher degree than any scheme of government that ever has been found to answer in any
country in the world;--that it possesses the confidence of the country--that it deservedly
possesses that confidence--and that its decisions have justly the greatest weight and influence
with the people. Nay, my Lords, I will go yet farther and say, that if, at this moment, I had
to form a legislature for any country, particularly for one like this, in possession of great
property of various descriptions, although, perhaps, I should not form one precisely such as
we have, I would endeavour to produce something which would give the same results--namely,
a representation of the people, containing a large body of the property of the country, and
in which the great landed proprietors have a preponderating influence.

In conclusion I beg to state, that not only is the government not prepared to bring forward
any measure of this description, but that as far as I am concerned, whilst I have the honour
to hold the situation I now do amongst his Majesty's councillors, I shall always feel it my
duty to oppose any such measures when brought forward by others.

November 2, 1830.

       *       *       *       *       *

Irish Absenteeism deprecated.

I can assure your Lordships that there is not any man, either there or here, who is more aware
of the poverty of Ireland, and the dangers to the empire from the state of the lower orders,
than he who has now the honour of addressing you. But I would have noble Lords to observe that
it is not by coming here to talk of the poverty of that country that we can remove it. If noble
Lords will endeavour to tranquilize the country, and persuade those who have the means to buy
estates and settle there; by holding out to them a picture of industry and tranquility with
its other advantages, they will soon find the country change its aspect, and complaints of
the dangers arising from its poverty will no longer be heard. The influence of the presence
and fortunes of the proprietors of land in Ireland spent in that country, would do more to
serve it than any legislative enactment parliament have it in their power to pass.

November 2, 1830.

Repeal averted by Emancipation.

The repeal of the union is opposed by the noble Duke opposite (the Duke of Leinster) and all
his friends in Ireland: it is opposed by all the proprietors in Ireland, by the great majority
of the Roman Catholics, by nearly all the Protestants of Ireland, and with one exception by
the unanimous voice of the other House of Parliament.

Such is the present state of this question, but how would it have stood had not that other
to which he alluded been carried two years ago? And how did that one then stand? Why, the noble
Duke and all his friends, and a large proportion of the Irish people, were anxious that that
question should be carried. Such, also, do we know to a certainty was the desire of the majority
of the other House of Parliament, whilst at the same time there was in this House a minority
in its favour, daily acquiring greater strength; and at present, I presume, no one will deny
that a large body of the best informed people of this country were also decidedly for conceding
this point. We do not now stand on worse ground on the question of the repeal of the union
than we should have done had not the Catholic question been carried. I do not see the advantage,
therefore, of repeating reproaches against me for having given way on that occasion from fear.
I gave way because I conceived the interests of the country would be best answered by doing
so; I gave way on the grounds of policy and expediency, and upon those grounds I am at this
moment ready to justify what I did. The noble Lord must forgive me for saying that the state
of irritation which has continued to exist in Ireland since that question was carried must
not be attributed to the King's Ministers: they have done every thing in their power to conciliate,
and heal the divisions which distracted that country for so many years previously to the settlement
of that question. It is not my duty, any more than my inclination, to cast imputation on any
man; but this I will say, that if the King's Ministers had been supported as strongly as they
have been opposed in their endeavours to heal those divisions, Ireland would have been in a
very different state from what it now is.

November 2, 1830.

       *       *       *       *       *

Magistrates should be appointed by Lords Lieutenant.

Lords Lieutenant of counties are generally chosen in consequence of their possessing large
properties, and from their weight and consideration in the counties over which they preside.
They must, therefore, be the most highly interested in selecting proper persons, and a proper
number of persons, whom they know will do their duty well as magistrates.

In choosing magistrates, in my opinion, it is essentially necessary that local knowledge should
operate. Before any man should venture to recommend another to be appointed to the commission,
he should have knowledge of his character, and of other circumstances, which can only be discerned
by local knowledge.

Nov. 29, 1830.

The Agrarian Outrages of 1830.

It appears to me that the outrages which have taken place in the country are of two descriptions--the
first is that open description of outrage, which there is no doubt, may be got the better of
by the operation of the ordinary process of law; the second is that description of crime--the
destruction of property by fire,--of the perpetrators of which Government have not hitherto
been able to discover any trace whatever. I do not know what information the Noble Earl may
have received on the subject within the last week, but up to that period we had discovered
no traces whatever of these incendiaries.

It is supposed by some noble Lords, that the perpetrators of the second description of crime--the
destruction of property by fire--are foreigners, and that they are following the example set
in another country. I believe, however, there is no evidence whatever that foreigners have
been engaged in the perpetration of those crimes. It is certain that they have been effected
by a conspiracy of some kind or other; but whether the conspirators are foreigners or Englishmen,
I believe that no man can at this moment possibly say. As to foreigners being in gaols, I can
only say, that with reference to one county--the county of Hants--in which outrages of the
most flagrant kind have occurred, there is not one foreigner among the persons with whom Winchester
gaol is filled.

Nov. 29, 1830.

Our Portuguese Relations affected by the State of Ireland.

In reference to Ireland, it is of great importance that we should be on good terms with Portugal.
Unfortunately, the great measure which I had the honour to prepare three years ago, has not
answered so as to produce--I will not say all the advantages I expected from it, as I was never
sanguine in my expectations, but the amount of advantage which some of your Lordships and part
of the public expected. To use a vulgar expression, a new hare has started, and we must probably
look to a length of time ere the agitation excited in Ireland by the new question shall have
subsided. Now, I want to know, whether Portugal will not be as important to us during the agitation
of that question as it has been previously? Will not our reception in the Tagus, and friendly
occupation of it, be as important to England now, as it has been heretofore? I do not now wish
to discuss the claims of Don Miguel and Donna Maria--this is not the occasion for it--I only
mean to convey my decided opinion, that the friendship of Portugal is necessary to this country.
If we deprive Portugal of the advantages of this wine trade for a revenue of 100,000 l., putting
political economy and commerce out of the question, we shall make the greatest political blunder
that has been seen for a long time past.

Feb. 21, 1831.

How is the Government to be carried on after the Reform Bill?

With respect to another subject (Reform) which must occasion discussion, I quite agree in the
determination which has been adopted of postponing all discussions upon it till a future period;
but when that period shall arrive, I hope that his Majesty's ministers, who, upon their own
responsibility, have brought the question under discussion, will be so kind as to explain to
the House in what manner, and by what influence, they propose that the Government of this country--the
Monarchical Government of this country--shall be carried on, according to the principles and
practice established at the Revolution.

March 3, 1831.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Downfall of the Constitution predicted as the Consequence of the Reform Bill.

It is far from my wish to impute to the noble Earl (Grey) or his colleagues any desire to introduce
revolutionary measures into Parliament; but, I must say this, that having looked at the measure
which has been brought into the other House of Parliament under their auspices, I cannot but
consider that it alters every interest existing in the country,--that in consequence of its
operation, no interest will remain on the footing on which it now stands, and that this alteration
must lead to a total alteration of men--of men intrusted with the confidence of Parliament.
I am of opinion that this alteration must have a serious effect on the public interests,--an
effect which, I confess, I cannot look at without the most serious apprehension. I do not charge
the noble Earl and his colleagues with a desire to overturn the institutions of the country,
but I cannot look at the alterations proposed by the bill without seeing that those alterations
must be followed by a total change of men, and likewise by a total change of the whole system
of Government. Why, I ask--for what reason--is all this to be done? I will not now enter into
the question of what is the opinion of the other House of Parliament--but I will say again,
as I have said before, in the presence of your Lordships, that I see no reason whatever for
altering the constitution of Parliament.

It is my opinion that parliament has well served the country, and that it deserves the thanks
of the country for a variety of measures which it has proposed, particularly of late years.
I see no reason for the measure now proposed, except that stated by the noble Earl--namely,
his desire to gratify certain individuals in the country. It is possible that a large number,
nay, even a majority of individuals, in this country may be desirous of this change, but I
see no reason, excepting that, for this measure being introduced or adopted.

Whilst I thus declare my sentiments, I beg your Lordships to believe that I feel no interest
in this question, excepting that which I have in common with every individual in the country.
I possess no influence or interest of the description which will be betrayed by the measure
now proposed. I am an individual who has served his Majesty for now, I am sorry to say, nearly
half a century; I have been in his Majesty's service for forty-five years--for thirty eventful
years of that period I have served his Majesty in situations of trust and confidence, in the
command of his armies, in embassies, and in his councils; and the experience which I have acquired
in the situations in which I have served his Majesty, enables me, and imposes upon me the duty,
to say, that I cannot look at this measure without the most serious apprehensions, that from
the period of its adoption, we shall date the downfall of the constitution.

March 24, 1831.

       *       *       *       *       *

Under the Reformed System, how is the King's Government to be carried on?

I have, myself, examined the bill, with reference to its effects on the county of Southampton.
In that county there are several towns--Winchester, Christchurch, Portsmouth, Southampton,
and the borough of Lymington. Several boroughs in that county are struck out of the representation
by the bill, and there are, besides, a vast number of considerable towns left unrepresented,
but the voters of these places are to come into the county constituency. According to the old
system, the voters of the towns had votes for the county; now, copyholders and 50l. householders
are to vote for the county. In the towns, these two classes are, for the most part, shopkeepers.

I am convinced that there are no less than 4000 or 5000 such inhabitants of towns in Hampshire,
who will have votes for the county, as well as the freeholders. Now, of whom does this class
of electors consist? As I before stated, they are shopkeepers--respectable shopkeepers--in
the towns. I beg to ask, are they fit persons to be the only electors to return county members
to a Parliament, which Parliament is to govern the affairs of this great nation, consisting
of 100,000,000 of subjects, and so many various relations, foreign, domestic, colonial, commercial,
and manufacturing? Men of the description I have mentioned, with their prejudices and peculiar
interests, however respectable as a body, cannot be fit to be the only electors of members
of the House of Commons. But, I beg to say that, however respectable this, or any other class
of electors may be, there is a strong reason against any uniformity of system in the representation
of the country. I have heard already of the establishment, in this town, of a committee formed
for the purpose of recommending candidates for the representation to the different towns throughout
the country. I confess, I do not believe that this committee has been established more than
a few days; but I beg to say that, taking into consideration the means of combinations, and
the facilities of communications in the country, such a body is dangerous. I know that such
committees, in other countries, have been found to be effectual in putting down the Government.
And I ask whether you should allow such a uniform system of election--it matters not in whose
hands it is placed--that a committee, sitting in London, shall have the power to dictate what
members shall be returned for Leeds, or for Manchester, for instance? I wish to know what security
noble Lords have for their seats in this House, if such a committee as this should exist at
the first general election of a reformed Parliament? But, my Lords, these are not all the objections
which I entertain to this measure; I have others, founded upon facts, which I know to have
existed in other countries. I was in France when the law of election was passed, in the year
1817; and this circumstance deserves your Lordships' attention, because the situation of the
two countries is not dissimilar. At that period there were, in each department 300 persons,
who, paying the highest amount of taxes, were chosen to manage the representation. The King
and Government altered this, and gave the power of choosing representatives to persons paying
taxes to the amount of 300 francs. Two years afterwards, they were obliged to alter the law
again, and form two classes of electors. Since then, there have been two general elections,
one more unfavourable than the other to the Government; and the matter ended in the formation
of a Parliament, the spirit of which rendered it impossible for a Government to act.

My Lords, I do not mean here to justify the Government of Charles X.; and I trust the noble
and learned Lord (Lord Brougham) will allow me, on this occasion, to declare that I never wrote
to Prince Polignac in my life (much as I have been accused of encouraging the proceedings of
that person), and I have never written to Charles X. from the time that monarch lost his son,
and his grandson was born. In fact, I have never corresponded with any French minister without
the knowledge of my colleagues. The noble and learned Lord on the woolsack may rely on it,
that I had no more knowledge of Prince Polignac's proceedings, than the noble and learned Lord
himself; or, most probably, still less. I am not the apologist of Prince Polignac; but, I say,
that things had been brought to that state in France, that it was impossible but there should
be a revolution.

When I see a similar mode of election established in this country--when I see the adoption
of a uniform system of election--when I see the election placed in the hands of shopkeepers
in boroughs all over the country--I think that we incur considerable danger, and put the country
in such a situation as that no minister can be certain that any one measure which he brings
forward will succeed, or that he will he enabled to carry on the Government. The circumstances
of France and England are, in many particulars, alike, and we ought to take warning by the
dangers of the neighbouring country.

I wish the House to advert to what the business of the King's Government in Parliament is.
It is the duty of that Government to manage everything. I heard the noble and learned Lord
on the Woolsack, in a speech of admirable eloquence and knowledge, propose a new judicial system
at the commencement of the Session; but I tell him, that it is impossible for the Government
ultimately to decide on that question; and that if a Parliament be constructed on the new plan,
it will be too strong for Government on that question. So, also, in matters affecting commerce
and manufactures, Government would depend entirely upon Parliament.

I want to hear how Government is to carry any measure, on the appointment of a new Parliament?
There is a great question now before the House of Commons on the subject of tithes. How is
any Government to meet that question? A Government may submit to the will of a majority opposed
to its own view on other questions, but on the question of tithes and the Church, the duty
of any Government is clearly pointed out--the King's Coronation Oath, and the Acts of Union
with Scotland and Ireland, guaranteeing the integrity of the Church Establishment, and the
protection of the estates and prosperity of the Church. But I want to know how Government is
to maintain the safety of the Established Church, after placing Parliament on the footing proposed.
I really do not wish to carry this argument farther than it will go; but, looking round, and
considering the operation of the proposed measure in towns, as well as in counties, and forming
the best judgment I can on affairs so complicated, I must infer, from every thing I see, that
the Constitution of the country cannot be carried on as hitherto, if this plan be adopted.
In such an event, you would alter your whole system of Government. I do not say the Crown cannot
last. You may still permit the King's interference in the management of the army, the navy,
and the ordnance; and the rest of the Government may he carried on by the House of Commons.
Things may go on under such a system; but this will not be the British Constitution. It will
not be the same England, which has been, for so many centuries, prosperous and glorious under
our present Constitution.

March 28, 1831.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Unreformed House a complete Legislative Body.

As to the present House of Commons, I maintain that it is as complete a legislative body as
can be required; and that the House of Commons, since the peace particularly, has shown itself
to be the most efficient legislative body that ever existed in any country in the world, not
excepting this. I say, that it has rendered more services than any Legislature ever did in
the same period--I say, it has continued those great services up to the present moment, and
that those services have only been interrupted by the introduction of this discussion upon
the Reform Bill.

March 28, 1831.

Reasons why the Duke resigned Office in November, 1830.

It is quite true, that when the late Government brought forward the Catholic question, they
were supported by many noble Lords who were usually opposed to the Government; but it is not
correct that the disfranchisement of the forty-shilling freeholders was made a sine qua non
to ensure the support of the noble Lords to the Relief Bill. I certainly had the misfortune,
on that occasion, to lose the support and regard of a great number of friends, both here and
in the other House of Parliament--a misfortune I have never ceased to lament; yet I have the
consolation of knowing, that in what I then did, I did no more than what my duty required of
me; and I was not justified in relinquishing that measure by any intimidation, or by any imaginary
circumstance of danger--which I had no right to apprehend. But I own that things were going
on in Ireland which induced me to think they might lead to a civil war, in the event of our
continuing to refuse the settlement of the question; and I am satisfied that I should have
been wanting in duty, both as a man and a Minister, if I had hesitated to give up those opinions
which I had previously entertained with regard to that measure. I afterwards had some difference
with a noble Earl opposite (Earl Grey), but notwithstanding I felt called upon to retain the
position I held in the Government as long as I enjoyed the approbation of my Sovereign, and
the confidence of the Legislature.

Then came the Revolution in France, followed by that of Belgium; and like the former revolutions
of Naples and of Spain, they naturally excited a strong sensation here; that excitement, increased
by speeches made in various parts of the country, created a strong desire for Parliamentary
Reform. But I did not think then, any more than I think now, that that desire was irresistible.
If Parliament should see reason to decide that the proposed alteration in the Constitution
is not necessary, and ought not to be made, I am confident the country will acquiesce in that
decision. I believe that the wish for reform is strong and growing; but if the people see that
the subject is fairly discussed, and honestly determined here, I am sure they will submit without
a murmur. Already the sensation produced by the French and Belgian Revolutions has subsided;
the natives of the country have seen the deplorable results by which those commotions have
been followed, and are wisely warned by the sufferings of their neighbours.

       *       *       *       *       *

Upon the defeat on the Civil List, finding I had the misfortune no longer to enjoy the confidence
of the House of Commons, I thought proper to resign the situation which I held in his Majesty's
service. Upon that occasion, the question of Parliamentary Reform had no more to do, as far
as I was concerned, with the resignation which I tendered to his Majesty on the day following
the defeat on the Civil List, than anything else in the world. I admit I resigned next morning,
because I did not wish to expose his Majesty and the country to the consequences that might
result from the Government going out on the success of the question of Parliamentary Reform.
This is the truth; but, to say I resigned on account of Parliamentary Reform, is wrong; I resigned
upon the ground before stated; and I resigned at that particular moment on the Tuesday, because
I did not choose to expose his Majesty and the country to the consequences that might ensue
from the occurrence of the case just mentioned. This is the real fact of the story. But the
noble and learned Lord has said, that the late Ministry gave up the principle of Parliamentary
Reform by their resignation; no such thing--we resigned because we did not possess the confidence
of the House of Commons, and we thought that the same majority which defeated us on Monday
on the Civil List, might defeat us Tuesday on Reform; and then we should have sacrificed (as
the noble Lord says), the principle of Parliamentary Reform in the Commons. We did not think
it worth while to make any farther struggle in order to retain office a day or two longer.

March 28, 1831.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Civil List principle, on what arranged.

My Lords, the principle on which I and my colleagues drew up the Civil List, was always directed
to enable the Sovereign, so far as was practicable, to defray all the expenses necessary to
be incurred in supporting the dignity, splendour, and comforts of the Crown, without mixing
them up with the other expenses of the Government. For this purpose, it was formerly the practice
to grant a considerable sum for those various, but necessary expenses. Certainly, the Crown
enjoyed great advantage in supporting its dignity, influence, and efficiency, as long as the
system of supporting itself on its hereditary revenues remained in practice. That system, my
Lords, was departed from at the commencement of the reign of Geo. III.; and a further departure
from it has since taken place, into which I shall, with your Lordships' permission, examine
presently, and compare that departure with those proposed by the late Government. From the
accounts I have seen of the hereditary revenues enjoyed by Geo. II., I have reason to believe
that were they now enjoyed by our Sovereign, and employed in defraying the civil expenses of
the Government, and sustaining the dignity and splendour of the Crown, they would amount to
a sum larger than would be necessary to meet those expenses, notwithstanding the increase which
has been made in them by the increased salaries of the judges, the increased number of the
public officers, and the vast increase of the royal family of England. I say, my Lords, that
these hereditary revenues would be more than adequate to defray all these charges. I believe
that these revenues, independent of droits and West Indian duties, amount, at the present moment,
to 850,000 l. a-year; and these revenues, my Lords, I consider as much the King's property,
as I hold the possessions of your Lordships to be yours. I make this statement, because it
is important that your Lordships should recollect it, and the public should know that notwithstanding
the magnitude of the expenses of the Sovereign, the Sovereign has as much right to the sum
which I have mentioned, as any of your Lordships to your own estates. The system of giving
the Sovereign the amount of certain taxes to defray the expenses of the civil government, was
first departed from at the commencement of the reign of Geo. III., when a fixed sum was appointed,
instead of that mode of payment, for its support. In process of time the expenses of the civil
government increased, and the Civil List became a debt. The consequence was, that in the year
1815, an inquiry was instituted into the circumstances which had caused this increase of charges
upon the Civil List, up to the period of the Regency. What was the course then adopted by Parliament?
Why, it was to bring certain charges--as, for instance, the charges for ambassadors and ministers
abroad--under the annual vote of Parliament; and the immediate object was to avoid thereby
the fixing of any fresh debt, for which no estimate could be previously made, upon the Civil
List. In 1820 it was determined that nothing whatever should be brought before Parliament,
in connexion with the Civil List, that was a casual expense, or for which a regular vote could
not be submitted.

The original system, I have already stated, had been departed from in the reign of George III.,
and the late Government in presenting their civil list made a still further departure from
it, and upon this principle;--wherever a part of a salary was to be paid out of the civil list,
and part out of the consolidated fund, it was resolved to pay all out of the consolidated fund.
The course was adopted with regard to the salaries of the Judges, the Lord Chancellor, and
the Speaker of the House of Commons, and also of various other offices, some of which have
been since abolished. This was thought a less objectionable mode than that of subjecting those
salaries to an annual discussion in the Committee of the House of Commons. We wished my Lords
to place those salaries upon the consolidated fund, in order to prevent the possibility of
the country being left without a proper and efficient administration of public affairs. We
did not wish to leave the Government to the chance of being impeded by a small majority, in
the House of Commons, which, according to other proposed plans, might diminish the salaries
of public officers at pleasure. If my Lord we look to the period of the Revolution we shall
find that there were long discussions respecting the right of the crown to its hereditary revenues,
which ended in a concession of the principle that these revenues did belong to the crown. At
that time nobody ever dreamed of separating the expenses of the crown from those of the civil
government, and of making a separate provision for the support of the state and dignity of
the crown, which should be subject to the controul of parliament. The plan of separation, my
Lords, is one of modern invention altogether, and I totally dissent from it. Because, let us
look to the situation in which the crown is placed under the operation of such a system, and
we must observe that it will place the crown in a situation such as it ought not to be reduced
to; namely that it will render it liable to be deprived of the assistance--say of a public
officer, whose salary may be lost by a single vote in a committee of supply.

April, 19th, 1831.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Expenses of Ministers ruinous, unless they have large Private fortunes.

With respect to the reduction in the salaries of the great officers of state, I have only to
observe, that even under the existing rate of salaries, unless a First Lord of the Treasury,
(and the remark will apply to the other state officers) possesses a large private fortune,
he must be ruined in consequence of the heavy expences entailed on him by his situation, and
the inadequacy of the sum allowed by the public for the maintenance of those expenses. In proof
of this, I may instance the case of three prime ministers--Mr. Pitt, Mr. Percival, and Mr.
Canning,--all of whom were almost ruined by their being in office. I took upon myself to propose
a provision for the family of Mr. Canning in consequence.

April, 19th. 1831.

The Roman Catholic Relief Bill settled the question of the Repeal of the Union.

It is not my intention at present to enter into the question, as to the expediency of granting
the Roman Catholic claims; for I hope that question is for ever set at rest. The former government
of this country derived some advantage from the settlement of that question; and I believe
that this advantage will at least be admitted to have flowed from it,--that now there is no
question either in this or the other House of Parliament, or among the public, respecting the
necessity or expediency of repealing the Union. When I introduced the Catholic Relief Bill,
I stated that political power already existed in the hands of the Roman Catholics, and that
was a statement, generally admitted by noble Lords on both sides of the House. What the Bill
effected was to give the capacity of enjoying political power to the higher classes of the
Roman Catholics, and to take it out of the hands of those of the lower classes who did not
exercise it themselves for their own purposes, and according to the suggestion of their own
sentiments, but at the dictation of a body among the Catholic people, who, it will be admitted
by everybody, ought not to possess any political power whatever,--I mean the Roman Catholic
priesthood.

April, 21st. 1831.

       *       *       *       *       *

If the Reform Bill be passed, it will be impossible to preserve inviolate the Union with Ireland.

My opinion is, that your Lordships will find it difficult, indeed, after having passed the
Bill under discussion of the other House of Parliament, to maintain inviolate that Union which
now exists between the two countries. I mean to say, that in the event of that bill passing,
it would be impossible to maintain that article of the Union which recognises the Church of
England as a branch of that Union, and which guarantees its safety. I beg to call to your Lordships'
recollection, that his Majesty is sworn to maintain that Union inviolate; and that, in adopting
the Reform measure, the Parliament do actually expose his Majesty to the risk of consenting
to a bill calculated to break down the Church Establishment in Ireland. This is the impression
I have always entertained--and it is an impression which I cannot remove from my mind; and,
I must confess, that when I heard the other night the noble and learned Lord on the Woolsack
(Lord Brougham) assert that the Reform Bill had put down agitation in Ireland, on the subject
of a Repeal of the Union, I was much surprised.

April 22, 1831.

       *       *       *       *       *

Importance of Portugal to England.

There is no country in Europe whose alliance is so important to England as Portugal; there
is no country, the preservation of whose independence is so important to us, as that of Portugal.

July 26, 1831.

       *       *       *       *       *

A preventive Police checks Crime.

In all foreign countries there exists a preventive police,--but there is no such thing in England,--which
preventive police has the effect of checking crime in a very great degree. We have nothing
of the sort in England, neither can there be, according to the principles of our law and constitution.
Such being the case, your Lordships must use great caution in drawing comparisons between convictions
in this and foreign countries; if that is not done, the most erroneous conclusions will be
arrived at.

September 6, 1831.

       *       *       *       *       *

A War of Opinions the worst of Wars.

The truth is, that the government of Portugal has, for the last ten months, been looked upon
with inimical feelings and with passion by the King's servants; and this measure[13] is not
brought forward with any view to revenue, but for the purpose of opposing and embarrassing
the existing Government of that country. The noble Lords opposite do not like the situation
of the Government of Portugal; it is not to their mind; and they are anxious, either by revolutionary
measures, or any other, to overthrow it. Let them, however, look well at the responsibility
they are incurring. Let them consider the frightful consequences in which their planning may
involve this country, and the whole of Europe. If their designs even met with a temporary success,
they would inevitably lead to a war of opinion, to a war of religion--the worst of wars, and
the most deplorable consequences for all Europe would ensue.

September 30, 1831.

[Footnote 13: The Wine Duties Bill; for regulating the tariff as regards Portugal.]

       *       *       *       *       *

The Duke's Declaration against all Reform.

But, my Lords, if I wanted an example of the value of the House of Commons, I should find it
in the opinion of the noble Earl (Grey) the last time, I believe, the last time that he spoke
of the House of Commons. In the month of February, 1817, the noble Lord said, "constituted
as it now was, he, in his conscience, believed that the House of Commons was, of all other
institutions, in all the other countries of the world, the institution best calculated for
the general protection of the subject. Supported by the people, in temperate and firm claims
for redress, it was not only able, but certain to remedy every wrong. It was capable of acting
as the most efficient control upon the executive, by diminishing the means of consumption,
and reducing the pressure of a severe and grinding taxation." That was the opinion of the noble
Earl himself, in 1817; and what, I would ask, has the Parliament done, subsequently, to deserve
the disapprobation of the noble Earl? What had it done between 1817 and the moment when I pronounced
that approbation of Parliament, of which my noble friend (Earl Winchelsea) and the noble Earl
(Grey) have so much disapproved? When the noble Earl quoted what I said not quite a twelvemonth
ago, he might, I think, quote it correctly. What I said was, that Parliament had done its duty
by the country, and enjoyed its confidence. I said, that if I had to create a constitution
of Parliament, I could not create that which now existed, because I did not believe the art
of one man could invent such a system; but I said, that I would do my endeavour to establish
one like it, in which property in land should be preponderant. That was what I said; and I
afterwards had the satisfaction to hear the noble Marquis (Lansdowne) deliver a similar opinion.
He stated that, in any system of representation which he could support, property and learning
must be preponderant. I said that I should consider it my duty to resist the adopting of any
plan of reform that should be brought forward. I spoke as a minister of the Crown; I meant
to resist reform. The noble Lords say, that this statement of mine caused great enmity to me,
and created that spirit of reform which has since pervaded the whole country. I beg the noble
Earl's pardon; but the spirit of reform in this country was the consequence of the French revolution.
It is true, that ever since the American war, a desire for Parliamentary Reform has been manifested,
particularly when any disturbance or insurrection has occurred in any of the neighbouring foreign
countries--above all, since the French revolution; and when there has been any extraordinary
distress or difficulty in the country. At the same time, I believe that, from year to year,
the manifestations of such a desire have been less frequent. I have, indeed, the authority
of those most friendly to reform for saying that the manifestations of the desire for reform
were less frequent, till the period of the revolution of July, 1830, than they had formerly
been for a number of years.

October 4, 1831.

Electoral Pledges Unconstitutional.

It is on the ground of the dissolution, and of the Speech from the Throne,[14] that I charge
the noble Lords with having excited the spirit which existed in the country at the period of
the last general election; and with having been the cause of the unconstitutional practice,
hitherto unknown, of electing delegates for a particular purpose to Parliament--delegates to
obey the daily instructions of their constituents, and to be cashiered if they should disobey
them, whatever may be their own opinion; instead of being, as they have been hitherto, independent
members of Parliament, to deliberate with their colleagues upon matters of common concern,
and to decide according to the best of their judgment, after such deliberation and debate.
This is an evil of which the country will long feel the consequences, whatever may be the result
of these discussions.

[Footnote 14: The Whig ministry dissolved the Parliament in April, 1831. A new Parliament met
in June; and, on the 21st of that month, the King made the speech alluded to. In the interval
there had been great excitement in the country.]

My Lords, this measure, thus delegated by the people, and thus brought forward by the Government
in Parliament, for the decision of members thus delegated to give it the force of a law, alters
every thing; and requires, as the noble Secretary of State (Lord Melbourne) says, new powers,
in order to render it practicable to carry on the Government at all.

October 4, 1831.

       *       *       *       *       *

A Democratic Assembly of the worst description will be elected under the Reform Bill.

Throughout the whole of the empire, persons of the lowest condition of life, liable to, and
even existing under, the most pernicious influences, are to have votes; or, in other words,
are to exercise political power. Persons in those stations of life do exercise political power
already; but, in a few places, in large masses; preponderating over the influence of other
classes of society. What must we expect when these lower classes will preponderate everywhere?
We know what sort of representatives are returned by the places I have described. What are
we to expect, when the whole will be of the same description?

We hear, sometimes, of radical reform; and we know that the term applies to universal suffrage,
vote by ballot, annual parliaments, and their consequences. But, I declare, that looking at
these changes pervading every part of the representation, root and branch, destroying or changing
everything that has existed, even to the relative numbers of the representatives from the three
kingdoms fixed by treaty, I should call this a radical reform, rather than reform of any other
description.

       *       *       *       *       *

I cannot but consider that the House of Commons returned by it will be a democratical assembly
of the worst description; that radical reform, vote by ballot, and all the evil consequences
to be expected from the deliberations of such an assembly, must follow from this establishment.
I entreat your Lordships to pause before you agree to establish such a system in your country.

October 4, 1831.

       *       *       *       *       *

The popular Will no ground for conceding Reform.

But we are told that the people wish for this measure; and when we express our sense of the
danger which attends it, on account of the democratical power which it tends to establish,
an endeavour is made to calm our apprehensions, by the assurance that the people are attached
to the Government of King, Lords, and Commons.

If we are to rely upon that feeling of the people--if we are to adopt this measure because
it is the pleasure of the people, and because they are attached to the Government of King,
Lords, and Commons, why do we not, at once, adopt the measure which we know the people prefer--I
mean radical reform; that is to say, universal suffrage, vote by ballot, and annual parliaments?
If we are to make a change, there can be no reason for not going the full length that the people
wish, if we can be sure that the measure will not injure the Government--that to which they
are attached--of King, Lords, and Commons.

October 4, 1831.

Necessity of the Influence of Property in the House of Commons.

But before we go further, it is desirable that we should examine what is the Government of
King, Lords, and Commons, as established in this kingdom. In this Government the King is at
the head of everything. All the power is in his hands. He is the head of the Church, the head
of the law. Justice is administered in his name. He is the protector of the peace of the country,
the head of its political negociations, and of its armed force--not a shilling of public money
can be expended without his order and signature. But, notwithstanding these immense powers,
the King can do nothing that is contrary to law, or to the engagements of himself or his predecessors.

       *       *       *       *       *

Every act of the Government, or of the King, is liable to be brought under discussion in, and
is in fact controlled by, the House of Commons; and for this reason alone, it is important
that we should consider of what description of men the House of Commons is likely to be composed,
when we are discussing a question of Parliamentary Reform, in order that we may be quite certain
that they will exercise their high function with wisdom and discretion.

It was on these grounds, that I, some time ago, called upon the noble Earl (Grey) to state
by what influence he intended to carry on the King's Government in Parliament, according to
the principles fixed at the period of the Revolution, and in practice from that period to this,
when this Reform Bill should be passed. The noble Lord answered immediately--not by means of
corruption. I am aware of that, my Lords. I am convinced that the noble Lord is incapable of
resorting to such means, as I hope he believes that I am incapable of resorting to them. I
did not consider this any answer to my question, which I repeated in a subsequent discussion,
on the motion of my noble friend, the noble Baron behind me (Lord Wharncliffe). The noble Earl
said, that the Government had nothing to do with such questions; that Parliament was to decide
for itself; and that there was no necessity for the interference of Government.

I beg your Lordships to consider what are the questions which in every week, and on every day,
are brought under the discussion of the House of Commons--questions affecting the honour, the
interests, the rights, the property, of every individual in the country, which the King is
bound by his oath to protect, and in the protection of which, all are equally interested. They
are questions regarding the proceedings of Courts of Justice, regarding the use of the public
force, and hundreds of others, which occur daily, in which every individual is interested.
I put legislation out of the question; but can the King from that Throne give to his subjects
the necessary protection for their rights and property? No, my Lords. It is only by the influence
of property over the election of Members of the House of Commons, and by the influence of the
Crown and of this House, and of the property of the country upon its proceedings, that the
great powers of such a body as the House of Commons can be exercised with discretion and safety.
The King could not perform the duties of his high station, nor the House of Lords, if the House
of Commons were formed on the principle and plan proposed by this bill.

October 4, 1831.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Sacrifice of the Established Church will follow the Reform Bill.

There is one institution which would become peculiarly liable to attack in such a House of
Commons, to which I wish to draw the attention of the Right Reverend Bench, and that is, the
Establishment of the Church of England in Ireland. This Church is the object of a fundamental
Article of the Treaty of Union between the two countries, and is secured by Acts of both Parliaments;
and the King is, besides, sworn to maintain its right and possessions: can any man believe
that, when the representatives for Ireland come to be elected in the manner proposed by the
bill, the Church of England in Ireland can be maintained?

I have already shown that these representatives must be elected under the influence of the
Roman Catholic hierarchy. Who are those who now show the greatest hostility to the Church,
its rights, and possessions?--the Members for populous places. The reason is, that the deprivation
of the Church of their property is one of the popular objects of the day. The object of the
bill is, and its effects will be, to increase the number of this description of Members in
Parliament, and to render the influence of this party predominant and irresistible.

I believe that the noble Earl (Grey) has already found the Members returned by Ireland, under
this influence, very inconvenient to himself, upon more than one occasion; and it appears,
that the right honourable Gentleman who conducts the affairs of Ireland in the House of Commons,
was under the necessity, very lately, of giving up a measure which he thought important for
the benefit and peace of Ireland, because the Members from Ireland, of this party, were opposed
to it. How can the noble Lord suppose, that the Church of England can be protected, or even
the Union itself preserved in a Reformed Parliament? There is no man, who considers what the
Government of King, Lords, and Commons is, and the details of the manner in which it is carried
on, who must not see, that Government will become impracticable, when the three branches shall
be separate--each independent of the other, and uncontrolled in its action by any of the existing
influences.

October 4, 1831.

       *       *       *       *       *

Danger of a Democratic House of Commons.

A noble earl (the Earl of Winchelsea) who has spoken on this side of the House, has made an
observation to your Lordships, which well deserves your attention. The noble earl has told
you, that if you increase but a little the democratic power in the state, the step can never
be withdrawn. Your Lordships must continue in the same course till you have passed through
the miseries of a revolution, and thence to a military despotism, and the evils which attend
that system of government. It is not denied, that this bill must increase beyond measure the
democratic power of the state--that it must constitute in the House of Commons a fierce democracy:
what must be the consequences, your Lordships will judge.

I will not detain your Lordships by adverting to the merits of the system of government which
has existed up to the present moment, upon which my opinion is by no means altered. No man
denies that we have enjoyed great advantages; that we have enjoyed a larger share of happiness,
comfort, and prosperity, for a long course of years, than were ever enjoyed by any nation;
that we have more riches, the largest fortunes, personal as well as real, more manufactures
and commerce, than all the nations of Europe taken together; the richest, most extensive, most
peopled, and most prosperous foreign colonies and possessions, that any nation ever possessed.
There is not an important position in the world, whether for the purpose of navigation, commerce,
or military defence, that does not belong to us.

If this democratic assembly should once be established in England, does any one believe that
we should continue to enjoy these vast advantages? But a democracy has never been established
in any part of the world, that it has not immediately declared war against property--against
the payment of the public debt--and against all the principles of conservation, which are secured
by, and are, in fact, the principal objects of the British constitution, as it now exists.
Property, and its possessors, will become the common enemy. I do not urge this argument as
one in which your Lordships are peculiarly interested: it is not you alone, nor even other
proprietors, who are interested in the protection of property; the whole people, middling classes
as well as the lower orders, are interested in this subject. Look at the anxiety prevailing
in every part of London, in respect to the great revolution to be made by this bill. My noble
friend, the noble baron (Lord Wharncliffe) has been ridiculed for adverting to the opinions
of tradesmen in Bond-street and St. James's-street. Those in Bond-street consist of more than
200 respectable persons, who are well able to form an opinion of the effect of this bill upon
the resources of themselves, the middling classes, and the poor, as they supply the luxuries
of persons in easier circumstances, residing in that quarter of the town. Anything which can
effect the resources of their customers, must be interesting to them, and they do feel that
this bill must affect property, private expenditure, and the resources of themselves, and of
those whom they employ. A noble lord on the other side, who adverted to this topic, greatly
underrated the wealth of these tradesmen. I know of one, residing in Bond-street, who employs
at all times from 2,000 to 4,000 workmen, whose trade depends, as well as the employment of
this body of people, upon the expenditure of his customers: is he not interested in upholding
the public faith, and the system of property now established in England? Are not the people,
of all classes and descriptions, down to the lowest, interested in the maintenance of our extensive
manufactures and commerce, in the conservation of our enormous dominions abroad, and the continued
respect of all nations?

If I am right in thinking that this fierce democracy will be established in the House of Commons,
does any man believe that that harmony can continue between the king and his government and
the House of Commons, so necessary to insure to both general respect, and to the king's government
the strength which is necessary to enable his Majesty to protect and keep in order his foreign
dominions, and to insure the obedience of their inhabitants? We shall lose these colonies and
foreign possessions, and with them our authority and influence abroad.

There is no instance of any country having maintained its strength or its influence in its
foreign possessions, or the respect of foreign nations, during the existence of internal troubles
and disturbance; and there is no case of the existence, without such troubles, of a Government
consisting of King, Lords, and Commons, independently of each other, and the members of the
latter depending solely upon the popular choice, and being delegates of the people. We have
had an example in England of a House of Commons which was independent of the influence of the
Crown; and of this House, turning the Spiritual Lords out of it, murdering their Sovereign,
and voting the House of Lords useless. I will read your Lordships the account given by a man,
who was knowing in his time (Oliver Cromwell), of what this House became.

"The parliament, which had so vigorously withstood the encroachments of the royal power, became
themselves too desirous of absolute authority; and not only engrossed the legislative, but
usurped the executive power."

"All causes, civil and criminal, all questions of property, were determined by committees,
who, being themselves the legislature, were accountable to no law, and for that reason their
decrees were arbitrary, and their proceedings violent. Oppression was without redress, unjust
sentence without appeal; there was no prospect of ease or intermission. The parliament had
determined never to dissolve themselves."

"At length the army interfered. They soon perceived that, unless they made one regulation more,
and crushed this many-headed monster, they had hitherto ventured their lives to little purpose,
and had, instead of assuring their own and their country's liberty, only changed one kind of
slavery for another."

This is the account of the state of a house of Commons acting independently of all influence;
and of the state to which it brought the country.

October 4, 1831.

       *       *       *       *       *

Contempt of intimidation by popular meetings.

I do not deny that I always felt strongly the attempts that were made to intimidate your Lordships
by public meetings. For all such meetings, I feel the greatest contempt; and I am perfectly
satisfied that the house is superior to any intimidation founded on the proceedings of any
such assemblages. I feel no concern for all those threats, whether proceeding from Birmingham
or elsewhere. I have always thought, and I think still, that the law is too strong to be overborne
by such proceedings. I know further, that there does exist throughout this country a strong
feeling of attachment to the government of the country, as by law established. I know that
the people look up to the laws as the best means of protection, and those laws they will not
violate in any manner to endanger the government of the country, or any of its established
institutions. I am afraid of none of these, but I will tell your Lordships what I am afraid
of, I am afraid of revolution, and of revolutionary measures, brought in and proposed by his
Majesty's government. I assert, and I believe that history will bear me out in the assertion,
that there has been no revolution in this country, or any great change, which has not been
brought about by the parliament, and generally by the government introducing measures, and
carrying them through by the influence of the Crown. I would therefore entreat your Lordships
to do all you can to defeat this measure--use every means of resistance which the just exercises
of your privileges will warrant; and trust to the good sense of the country to submit to the
legal and just decision you come to.

October 5,1831.

       *       *       *       *       *

Comparison of the Finance Administration of the Wellington with that of the Grey government.

I believe we find ourselves in this singular situation: we have an increased expenditure, (increased
within this year,) and have, at the same time, a reduction of taxation, and no overplus whatever
(or one not amounting to more than 10,000 l.) of revenue. I say we are in that peculiar situation,
because I put out of the question those occasions on which ministers of the crown have thought
it their duty to propose and effect loans, to carry on the public service of the country. Even
in these cases, those who have made such propositions have thought it their duty to provide
a surplus over revenue, in order to meet the unforeseen casualties in the amount of revenue,
which every man knows must occur in so large a revenue as this country has the happiness to
boast of. This principle of having a surplus revenue over the expenditure, has been considered
advantageous with a view to the diminution of the national debt. I am aware that this is a
part of the subject on which a difference of opinion exists. I am aware that many great authorities
are of opinion that no surplus is necessary for the express purpose of reducing the national
debt, and I perfectly agree with them that it is not desirable that a surplus should be created
by borrowing, and thus creating new liabilities for the purpose of getting rid of the old.
But I cannot look to what has taken place of late years, even in my own time, when I filled
the situation of first Lord of his Majesty's Treasury,--cannot look to what took place then
without seeing the advantage of having an overplus of income over expenditure, such as would
tend to the gradual diminution of the public debt.

I am considerably within the truth when I state, that since the peace the interest of the public
debt has been decreased by an amount more than sufficient to pay the interest of 100,000,000
l. of stock; and your Lordships will therefore see that some surplus of revenue, in order to
lead to a diminution of the public debt, is highly desirable. I think it is a principle of
the financial policy of this country that there should be such a surplus, and that it should
be so applied. Besides, much of the revenue of this country depends on the seasons, and almost
all on consumption; and the amount of consumption depends upon taste and fashion; and the change
of taste and fashion, and other circumstances over which no man can have control, and which
are liable to variations, may tend to a variation in the amount of the revenue, which nothing
can provide against except a surplus revenue. It is on this principle that the government to
which I had the honour to belong proceeded.

We should not think that an individual provided for his expenses who should leave a part of
them to be paid within a future period, neither can we think all the expenditure of the country
is provided for, leaving a part to be paid for in the next year. The sum expended for the service
of the year is the sum to be paid, whether within the year or at any other period, for this
sum provision ought to be made within the year, or debt is incurred. It is a new principle
introduced into the financial system of this country; it is a principle which at any other
time than the present, would never have been listened to, much less tolerated by parliament
for a moment.

October 17, 1831.

       *       *       *       *       *

King Leopold must be independent of Foreign Powers.

I entertain the highest respect for Prince Leopold, and I trust that that Prince will take
upon himself the character of an independent sovereign, and I know that that illustrious person
possesses all the talents and disposition calculated to form a great and excellent sovereign;
but I must say, that in order to be so, he must be not only independent of this country, and
of the Germanic states, but above all he must be independent of France.

January 26, 1832.

The Grey policy tends to War, Foreign and Domestic.

I say that the foreign policy of his Majesty's ministers is more likely to produce war abroad
than any other system; and in the same manner their domestic policy is of all others, the best
calculated to produce war at home.

January 26, 1832.

       *       *       *       *       *

Irish Agitation deprecated.

My Lords, the main cause of the present excitement is the encouragement given in Ireland to
agitators to disturb the country. I can tell the noble Earl, (Grey), that so long as encouragement
is given to agitators, you may double and treble the regular army in Ireland,--you may heap
measures of severity upon measures of severity, but you will not succeed in putting down agitation
upon this question, or upon any of the others which may follow it.

February 27th, 1832.

       *       *       *       *       *

Tithes the most sacred kind of property.

A noble Lord, the other night, in discussing the question of tithes, observed that the people
of Ireland are ready to pay that for which they receive value, to pay their rent, and to pay
all the taxes on the land, and that they wished not to deprive any man of his property. I say
then my Lords, is any property held so sacred by our laws as tithes? In the first place, the
King is sworn--his Majesty was sworn a few months ago--to protect the property and rights of
the clergy, above all classes of men. I desire also, to bring to your Lordships' recollection,
that in two recent Acts of parliament, in which we conferred notable advantages on the Dissenters
from the Church of England, we endeavoured as far as we might by oaths, to secure the property
of the church. If any principle, indeed, can secure property to any portion of his Majesty's
subjects, the property of the church ought to be safe. It is a principle of the constitution
that tithes, above all other property, should be secured to the owner.

February 27th, 1832.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Grey Government charged with encouraging Political Reform.

My Lords, I never have made, and I never will make, a charge which I am not ready to repeat,
and able to substantiate, and I will forthwith prove that which the noble Earl calls upon me
to explain. In doing this I beg leave to remind your Lordships, that some months ago I suggested
to the noble Earl, (Grey) that an Act of Parliament, which had been passed for the purpose
of suppressing illegal associations in Ireland, was about to expire, and I asked him, if he
intended to propose a renewal of that act. The noble Earl replied that he did; but my Lords,
you will recollect that parliament was dissolved without any further notice of the act, and
of course it expired. The result of this was, that the noble Earl stated in the House, when
it met again, that the noble Marquis at the head of the Irish Administration felt that he could
carry on the government of that country without any additional powers; and the consequences
of the noble Earl having declined to apply to the legislature for any authority beyond the
existing laws were, that agitation began again, and that meeting after meeting has been held,
from that time to the present moment. This is not all, my Lords; the great agitator, the prime
mover of the whole machinery, escaped the execution of the sentence of the law in consequence
of the expiration of the Act of Parliament to which I have referred. Well my Lords, what has
since taken place. This very person, the great agitator, whom the government had prosecuted
to conviction, was considered to be a person worthy of the honours which the crown could bestow,
and he received the highest favour which any gentleman of the Bar ever received from the hands
of the noble Earl and his government; he received a patent of precedence, which placed him
next the Attorney General, and above a gentleman who was once Attorney General, but was still
a member of the same Bar. If this was not a premium given to that gentleman to continue his
course of disturbing the country, I do not know what else could be so considered. I feel that
no more effectual mode could be found to encourage agitation than to reward the promoter of
it. But it is not alone in this respect that his Majesty's Government has encouraged agitation.
What was the meaning, I ask, of the friends of government taking the course they have taken
out of doors, with reference to the Reform Bill? What was the meaning of the letter of the
noble Lord in another house, addressed to the Political Union of Birmingham, in which that
noble Lord designated the sentiments of noble Peers on this side of the House as the "whisper
of a faction?"--What was the meaning of two friends of government collecting a mob in Hyde
Park, and the Regent's Park, on one of the days on which the House of Lords was discussing
the Reform Bill? What was the meaning of those individuals directing the line of march of the
assembled multitude upon St. James's, and publishing their orders in the papers devoted to
government? And what was the meaning of the publications in the government newspapers, libelling
and maligning all those who opposed the Bill? What was the meaning of all these deeds being
allowed by government, and why did they tolerate and abet them, unless they calculated upon
some advantages to themselves in encouraging such agitation? I don't accuse the noble Earl
of instigating those mobs--I do not mean to say, that he was delighted at seeing my house assailed,
or any other work of destruction committed; but I say some of his colleagues, and some of the
friends of government, have encouraged and incited the people to works of violence. I must
say, I have long felt on this subject very strongly. I feel that the country is in a most dangerous
state. I find the country is in a most dangerous state, on account of government not taking
the proper measures to put a stop to confusion and agitation; and on the contrary, in place
of putting a stop to such scenes, allowing some Lords of his Majesty's household, to encourage
and instigate the people to lawless acts.

February 27th, 1832.

[Earl Grey had risen and denied that the Government had encouraged agitation upon which the
Duke made the previous short but energetic speech.]

       *       *       *       *       *

Mr. O'Connell ought not to have had a Patent of Precedence.

It has been urged, that professional honours should not be withheld from a gentleman who is
entitled to them, on account of political offences. I beg to set the noble Lord right on that
point. The offences of which Mr. O'Connell was convicted, were not political or professional,
but legal offences. They were pronounced such by the law of the country; and it was to an individual
who had been convicted of such offences, that his Majesty's Government thought it right to
give a patent of precedence in Ireland.

February 27, 1832.

       *       *       *       *       *

Opinion of the "National" System of Education in Ireland.

I agree in opinion with the noble and learned Lord (Plunkett), who has declared that opinion
with so much eloquence, that any system of education, to succeed, must be founded on religion;
and that it cannot stand on any other foundation. The noble and learned Lord has truly said,
that this is to be desired, not simply from the advantages to be derived from religious instruction,
but for the promotion of those habits of obedience and discipline which it is necessary to
instil into the mind of youth. I admit that the system proposed by Ministers is founded on,
and justified by, the reports of the commissioners and of committees of the other House of
Parliament; but the doubt I entertain is this--whether the system laid down in the reports,
and in the letter of the Right Honourable Secretary for Ireland, is a system which would inculcate
those habits of discipline and obedience which are required by the noble and learned Lord,
and which would alone satisfy my own mind, that in adopting it we should be doing that which
we ought to do: this is my apprehension. What I feel is this--that there is much doubt whether
the new system of education in Ireland will apply to the education of nearly 500,000 persons,
in the same advantageous way as is now the case with the existing Societies--the London Hibernian
Society, the Sunday School Society, and the Kildare Place Society. What I would say is, that
there is already going on a system of religious education, extending its operation to nearer
500,000 than 400,000 persons--a system of real religious education, founded on the Scriptures,
which can be interfered with by nobody--neither by priest nor by any other man--and which is
so directed by this Kildare Place Society, as not to give offence to anybody; and now, when
the Government is about to establish another system, (which I have admitted they are justified
by the reports in doing), I doubt much whether it will not be attended with less advantage
than that which already exists.

I am, myself, by no means satisfied that the system which is to be substituted is as good as
that which it is proposed to abrogate. If the system is to be changed, I consider that it would
be better, perhaps, to have separate schools for the Protestants and Roman Catholics. Although
I allow that this would be attended with many inconveniences, still I am inclined to think
it would be better than the scheme proposed.

I really cannot see the difference between public and private education; or why causes of dispute
should arise between two classes of persons, if educated by favour of public grants, rather
than between the same classes if educated by private means. All classes of persons who are
educated together, here, by their private means, agree quite well together, as Englishmen;
and I do not see why they should not in like manner agree, if they happen to be educated by
public grants.

February 28, 1832.

       *       *       *       *       *

Character of the Irish Agitation.

The present state of things in Ireland is to be attributed to the system of agitation, established
by persons who will never be quiet as long as the noble Lord at the head of the Government
shall permit them to proceed. It is not, I repeat, to be attributed to the practices or conduct
of the clergy, or to the Tithe Corporation Act, or even to the want of enforcing that Act,
but to that system of agitation, combined in the most artful manner, and carried on with a
perseverance unequalled on any other occasion; and the noble Lords may rely upon it, that the
state of things which now prevails in Ireland[15] will continue to exist even after this measure
shall have been adopted, if that system of agitation is not put an end to.

[Footnote 15: Resistance to the payment of tithe.]

March 8, 1832.

       *       *       *       *       *

Protection, not Free Trade, the Principle of our Commercial Law.

Nothing can be more absurd, than to assert that there is free trade in this country; there
is no such thing--there can be no such thing. Our manufactures and our produce have been at
all times protected. We have always given protection to the productions of our own soil, and
encouragement to our domestic labours; and we have, therefore, rather discouraged, than otherwise,
the rivalry of other countries. That has been our system; and I should be sorry to see any
measure adopted by this House, opposed to that system under which this country has so many
years thriven and prospered. We have always proceeded on the principle of protecting our manufactures
and our produce--the produce of our labour and our soil; of protecting them against importation,
and extending our home consumption; and on that universal system of protection it is absurd
to talk of free trade.

March 9, 1832.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Lord Chancellor's Patronage. Its Private Disposal Defended.

My noble and learned friend (the Earl of Eldon) has been attacked for having, in the exercise
of the patronage of his office, not overlooked the interests of his own family. To be sure
he did not, and he ought not to have done so; if he had, he would only have been departing
from the practice of all his predecessors. Let me remind your Lordships, that for at least
a century and a half back, the Lord Chancellor and Judges have invariably dispensed the patronage
attached to their offices in favour of their own immediate relations; so that my noble and
learned friend, in providing for his own family as well as he could, was only acting according
to the uniform and acknowledged practice of all his predecessors. The fact is, that the office
of Lord Chancellor would be very inadequately remunerated, unless the individual filling it
procured the means of providing for his family; and I believe it will be found out ere long,
what with this inadequate remuneration, and what with stripping off so much of the Chancellor's
patronage, and what with the surrendering up so much of his bankruptcy fees,--that the remuneration
will be so inadequate to the labour and change of habits, and expense consequent upon the assumption
of the office,--that few eminent gentlemen at the bar will, in future, be disposed to accept of it.

       *       *       *       *       *

For the reason by which I justified my noble and learned friend, I will say that the noble
and learned lord opposite, (Lord Plunkett) was justified in the exercise of his official patronage.
That noble and learned lord has a large family, and was perfectly right in placing them in
those situations to which their abilities and pretensions were adequate. The only blame in
such a case would be if he placed them in situations to which their abilities were not equal.
I will therefore say that the learned lord was perfectly justified in the course he has pursued;
and I will say more, that his high office and his great intellectual influence, fully entitled
him to expect that the government, of which he was a member, should give his family a preference
in filling up any situations to which, as I have stated, their abilities were equal. I agree
with the noble Earl at the head of his Majesty's government, in hoping that this will be the
last we shall hear of this senseless outcry against public men for this mode of disposing of
the patronage of office. The time of the house is but ill spent with such discussions; indeed,
I am sure that nothing can tend more to injure its character in public estimation, than these
investigations of the family affairs of men in high stations; at all events, they tend more
to lower the house than benefit the public, and the sooner we put an end to them the better.

March 12, 1832.

Peace with France desirable, but difficult to maintain.

There does exist in the minds of the people of France, a sentiment, which their government
at the present day are but too prone to flatter. I allude to that morbid desire of extended
conquest, which, at least for the last forty years, has so much influenced the character and
proceedings of that people.

There is no man who would be more ready than I should in taking every step calculated to promote
a good understanding between that country and this. I consider quite as much as the noble Earl
(Grey) opposite can possibly do, that every measure tending to that end is a measure of necessity--is
a measure of such urgency and importance, that I consider it second only to the honour and
interests of this country,--those I take to be the very first objects to which a British Minister
should direct his attention, regardless of every consideration which might interfere with them.
Well then, admitting as fully as any noble Lord can desire, that it must be at all times a
leading object with this country to preserve peaceful relations with France, I will tell the
noble Earl opposite, that if he would remain at peace with France, peace must be preserved
by this country in union with the other powers of Europe, and not by this country singly. I
tell him that the affair at Ancona is but a trifling warning of that which will soon follow,
unless a constant system of precaution be kept up. I tell him that if that affair be passed
over without notice, new attempts will be made, every one of them more and more dishonourable
and disadvantageous to this country. When I am told that we should not utter remonstrances
against the French government lightly, nor too readily impute a disposition to disturb the
amicable relations at present subsisting between the two countries, I answer that no one more
earnestly desires peace than I do. There is no one entertains a higher estimate than I do of
the resources--the immensity of the resources--possessed by that country both in peace and
in war--no man living estimates more highly than I do the wisdom of her statesmen and the skill
of her generals--no man is more ready than myself to concede to the French people the possession
of a large amount of talent and of virtue, of physical and of moral resources, and of all that
renders a state respectable or formidable in the eyes of other nations. But in proportion as
we admit these facts, we are bound to watch closely that nothing be done or said derogatory
from British honour or injurious to British interests.

March 16, 1832.

       *       *       *       *       *

Opinion of the Reform Bill, 1832.

I beg your Lordships to recollect that this is the point which the House will have to consider:--the
question is not whether alterations have been made in this part or that part, or in many parts
of the bill which your Lordships objected to last session, but the question you will have to
consider is this--Whether this bill, if passed and accompanied, let it be recollected, with
the other bills at present in the other House of Parliament, will afford to the country a prospect
of having a government under which the country can go on--under which it will be practicable
that this or any other can be governed--or which, in the words of the noble Earl who addressed
your Lordships first this evening employed last session--if practicable, would not be pernicious.
That is the question which your Lordships will have to consider, when you come to the second
reading of the bill. The principle of this measure is not reform, but the disfranchisement
of some places and the enfranchisement of others, and also the granting of votes to large bodies
of persons on a new qualification. The total alteration of the representation of this country,
coupled with an alteration of the representation of Scotland, amounting there to a complete
revolution, and the overthrow in Ireland of all the measures which were adopted in that country
three years ago--these, and not reform, are what your Lordships must consider as the principles
of the bill. I entertain the same opinion as the noble earl near me as to the necessity of
reform. My opinion on this point is now as it was originally. But how comes the question now
before your Lordships? it has been altered considerably, and is no longer what it was before.

The noble Earl has thrown out some imputations with respect to party motives--if the noble
Earl meant them to apply to me he is much mistaken, I have no party views to serve. I believe
there is scarcely an individual in this house, or in the country, who has so little to do with
borough interests or county interests, or any sort of Parliamentary interests as I have. I
have the same interest in the country as any other individual, that is to say, I wish to see
the representation established on such a basis as will give the country a prospect of a practicable
system of government.

