PUNCH,

OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI.

VOL. 99.

September 20, 1890.

OUT FOR ANOTHER HOLIDAY.

(BY OUR IMPARTIAL AND NOT-TO-BE-BIASSED CRITIC.)

I had been told that Ostend was an excellent place. "Quite a Town of Palaces!" was the enthusiastic
description that had reached me. So I determined to leave "Delicious Dover" (as the holiday
Leader-writer in the daily papers would call it), and take boat for the Belgian coast. The
sea was as calm as a lake, and the sun lazily touched up the noses of those who slumbered on
the beach. There is an excellent service of steamers between England and Belgium. This service
has but one drawback--a slight one: the vessels have a way with them of perpetrating practical
jokes. Only a week or so ago one lively mail-carrier started prematurely, smashing a gangway,
and dropping a portmanteau quietly into the ocean. On my return from foreign shores, I passed
the same cheerful ship lying in mid-channel as helpless as an infant. However, the accident
(something, I fancy, had gone wrong with the engines) appeared to be treated as more amusing
than important. Still, perhaps, it would be better were the name of this luckless boat changed
to Le Farceur; then travellers would know what to expect. But I must confess that my experiences
were perfectly pleasant. The steamer in which I journeyed crossed the Channel in the advertised
time, and if I wished to be hypercritical, I would merely hint that the official tariff of
the refreshments sold on board is tantalising. When I wanted cutlets, I was told they were
"off," and when I asked for "cold rosbif," that was "off" too. The garçon (who looked more
like a midshipman than a cabin-boy) took ten minutes to discover this fact. And as I had to
rely upon him for information, I had to wait even longer before the desired (or rather undesired)
intelligence was conveyed to me. I pride myself upon caring nothing about food, but this failure
to obtain my heart's (or thereabouts') yearning caused me sore annoyance.

Well, I reached Ostend. The town of palaces contained a Kursaal and a Casino. There were also
a number of large hotels of the King's Road, Brighton, plus Northumberland Avenue type. Further,
there were several maisons meublées let out in flats, and (to judge from the prices demanded
and obtained for them) to flats. The suite of apartments on the ground floor consisted of a
small bed-room, a tiny drawing-room, and a balcony. The balcony was used, as a salle à manger
in fine weather, and a place for the utterance of strong expressions (so I was informed) when
the rain interfered with al fresco comfort. There was a steam tramway, and some bathing-machines
of the springless throw-you-down-when-you-least-expect-it sort. The streets, omitting the walk
in front of the sea, were narrow, and the shops about as interesting as those at the poorer
end of the Tottenham Court Road. But these were merely details, the pride of Ostend being the
Kursaal, which reminded me of an engine-house near a London terminus. I purchased a ticket
for the Kursaal and the Casino. There was to be a concert at the first and a ball at the last.
I soon had enough of the concert, and started for the ball.

It was then that I found a regulation in force that made my cheeks tingle with indignation
as an Englishman. Although the tickets costing three francs a piece, were said to secure admittance
to the Kursaal and the Casino, I noticed that children--good and amiable children--were not
allowed to enter the latter place. I could understand the feelings of a gentleman who attempted
to obtain access for his eldest lad--a gallant boy of some fourteen summers, and a baker's
dozen of winters. My heart went out to that British Father as he disputed with the Commissaires
at the doorway, and called the attention of the Representative of "the Control" to the fact
that his billet was misleading. "You are an Englishman," said the Representative of the Control,
"and the English observe the law." "Yes," returned the angry Father; "but in England the Law
would support one in obtaining that for which one had paid. My son has paid for admission to
the Kursaal and the Casino! He is refused admittance to the Casino, therefore this ticket of
his spreads false intelligence! It is a liar! It is a miserable! It should be called the traitor
ticket!" But all was useless. The gallant lad had to remain with the umbrellas! I could not
help sympathising with that father. I could not refrain from agreeing with him, that where
such a thing was possible, something must be entirely wrong. I could not deny that under the
circumstances Ostend was a sham, a delusion, and a snare! When he observed that Ostend was
grotesquely expensive, I admitted that he was right. When he said that it was not a patch upon
Boulogne or Dieppe, I again acquiesced. When he asserted that every English tourist would be
wise to avoid the place, I acknowledged that there was the genuine ring of truth in his declaration.
When he appealed to me, as a dispassionate observer, to say whether I did not consider the
conduct of the authorities arbitrary, unjust, and absurd, I was forced to admit that I did
consider that conduct absolutely indefensible. Lastly, when he announced that he intended never
to say another word in praise of Ostend, I confessed that I had come in my own mind to the
same determination.

P.S.--I may add that I was accompanied by my son, who was also refused admittance. But this
is a matter of purely personal interest, and has nothing whatever to do with it.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE CACHET OF CASH AT DRURY LANE.

A Million of Money, "a new military, sporting, and spectacular Drama," is a marvel of stage
management. No better things than the tableaux of the Derby Day, the grounds of the Welcome
Club, and the departure of the Guards from Wellington Barracks for foreign parts have been
seen for many a long year. In such a piece the dialogue is a matter of secondary consideration,
and even the story is of no great importance. That the plot should remind one of Drury Lane
successes in the past is not surprising, considering that one of the authors (who modestly
places his name second on the programme, when everyone feels that it should come first) has
been invariably associated with those triumphs of scenic art. AUGUSTUS DRURIOLANUS has beaten
his own record, and the Million of Money so lavishly displayed behind the scenes, is likely
to be rivaled by the takings in front of the Curtain--or to be more exact, at the Box-office.
The Authors, in more senses than one, have carried money into the house. But they have done
more--they have inculcated a healthy moral. While Mr. HENRY ARTHUR JONES is teaching audiences
a lessen in Judah, that would have received the enthusiastic approval of the philanthropic
Earl of SHAFTESBURY, after whom Shaftesbury Theatre is, no doubt, called, the great HARRIS
and the lesser PETTIT are showing us in the character of the Rev. Gabriel Maythorne, a Parson
that would as certainly have secured the like hearty good-will at the same shadowy hands. The
Rev. Gentleman is a clergyman that extorts the admiration of everyone whose good opinion is
worth securing. He apparently is a "coach," and (seemingly) allows his pupils so much latitude
that one of them, Harry Dunstable (Mr. WARNER), is able to run up to town with his (the Reverend's)
daughter secretly, marry her, and stay in London for an indefinite period. And he (the Parson)
has no absurd prejudices--no narrow-mindedness. He goes to the Derby, where he appears to be
extremely popular at luncheon-time amongst the fair ladies who patronise the tops of the drags,
and later on becomes quite at home at an illuminated fête at the Exhibition, amidst the moonlight,
and a thousand additional lamps. It is felt that the Derby is run with this good man's blessing;
and everyone is glad, for, without it, in spite of the horses, jockeys, carriages, acrobats,
gipsies, niggers, grooms, stable-helps, and pleasure-seekers, the tableau would be æsthetically
incomplete. And the daughter of the Reverend is quite as interesting as her large-hearted sire.
She, too, has no prejudices (as instance, the little matrimonial trip to London); and when
she has to part with her husband, on his departure (presumably en route to the Bermudas), she
requires the vigorous assistance' of a large detachment of Her Majesty's Guards to support
her in her bereavement. Of the actors, Mr. CHARLES GLENNEY, as a broken-down gentleman, is
certainly the hero of the three hours and a half. In Act III., on the night of the first performance,
he brought down the house, and received two calls before the footlights after the Curtain had
descended. He has many worthy colleagues, for instance, Mr. HARRY NICHOLLS, Miss MILLWARD,
Mr. CHARLES WARNER, and Miss FANNY BROUGH, are all that could be desired in their respective
lines. But, well cast as it undoubtedly is, the play has vitality within it that does not depend
for existence upon the efforts of the company. It is good all round--scenery, dresses, properties,
and effects--and will keep its place at Drury Lane until dislodged by the Pantomime at Christmas.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHANGE OF NAME À LA SUISSE.--Tessin and its quarrelsome inhabitants to be known in future as
a Can't-get-on instead of a Canton.

       *       *       *       *       *

MORE FROM OUR YOTTING YORICK.

STOCKHOLM approached by lovely river (that is, we approached Stockholm by lovely river), with
banks and hills covered with pine and birch trees, and studded with villas, where the Stockholm
people live away from the town. "Studded" is a good word, but phrase sounds too much like "studied
with SASS," as so many of our best artists did. Lovely for boating. Why don't the Swedes row?
They don't. Lots of islands, and everybody as jolly as sand-boys, especially on Sanday. By
the way, what's a "sand-boy"? Why toujours jolly?

Stockholm a stunning place, all built round a huge palace, copy of the Pitti Palace in Florence.
Lifts to take the people up-hill, and a circular tramway all round the town for one penny.
Lots of soldiers in uniforms like Prussians or Russians, whichever you like. Such swagger policemen,
all tall and handsome, with beautiful helmets and lovely coats. What would an English cook
say to them?

Cathedral with tombs of GUSTAVUS VASA, GUSTAVUS ADOLPHUS, and BERNADOTTE. What was BERNADOTTE
doing here? Didn't like to ask. Piled up with kettledrums and flags taken from the Russians.
I noticed in Russia their churches were equally piled up with drums and flags taken from the
Swedes. Exchange is no robbery.

Lunch. First view of the Swedish snacks before lunch and dinner. A side-table with caviare
Lax, cut reindeer tongue, sausages, brown bread, prawns, kippered herrings, radishes, sardines,
crawfish, cheeses. Should spell it "Lax and Snax." Three silver tubs of spirit--Pommerans,
Renadt, and Kummin--tried 'em all. All good. "We had a good time--Kummin." The Kummin was goin',--rather.
Ceiling of restaurant all mirrors--self keeping an eye on self.

National Museum. Splendid collection. Stone, bronze, and iron periods. Poor pictures. No end
of palaces to see, till one is sick of 'em.

Swedes have a poet, BELLMAN, evidently who wrote Bacchanalian songs. They have a national holiday
on July the 26th, and go to Fête in a Wood, where bronze head of BELLMAN is, cover it with
garlands and roses, and sing and have a good time before it, just like an old Greek offering
to Bacchus. I saw it. And in the evening a fête where they carry a child got up as Bacchus,
and seated on a barrel with a wine-cup. A regular jolly drinking procession. They have a wonderful
open air restaurant called The Hasselbacken, where you dine in delightful little green arbours,
and lots of Swedish girls about. Capital dinners, A 1 wine, and first-rate music with full
band. No charge to go in; you pay before leaving, though. Very good waiting.

The Swedes are very polite, and take their hats off on the slightest provocation, and keep
them off a long time, specially whilst talking to a lady. When talking to two ladies, of course
they keep 'em off double the time.

Altogether a delightful place. But they all say you should come in the winter. Wish I could.
FLOTSAM, Y.A.

P.S.--The Swedish girls are as a rule very handsome. Tall, with long legs. Men good-looking also.

I can't very well do myself; I can "do myself" remarkably well, but I mean I cannot sketch
myself in a cut; but Mr. Punch, in cuts I have done, is far more expressive than I can make
anyone else.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE COMPLIMENTS OF THE SEASON (with Mr. Punch's kind regards).--The most Popular of Colonial
Strikers--Our illustrious guests, the Australian Cricketers.

       *       *       *       *       *

"WANTED!"

WANTED, by a well-travelled lady, of æsthetic and refined tastes, a comfortable and congenial
home with a Duchess. The Advertiser, who is a person of much intelligence, and a most agreeable
gossip, regards her pleasant companionship as an equivalent for the social advantages (including
carriage-drives, and an introduction to the very best society), for which she is prepared to
offer the very handsome remuneration of ten shillings a week.

       *       *       *       *       *

HORSE WANTED.--Must have been placed in a recent Derby, and show a good racing record. Thoroughly
sound in wind and limb, expected to be equal to carrying 13 stone in the Park, or to doing
any work from a four-in-hand down to single harness in a hearse. On the advertiser being furnished
with a suitable beast, he will be prepared to put down a five-pound note for him, payable by
ten-shilling monthly instalments.

       *       *       *       *       *

HOME REQUIRED FOR AN INDIAN CHIEF.--The Advertiser, who has recently received a consignment
of Savages from Patagonia, and has had to entertain their Monarch in his residence at Bayswater,
as he is about to pay a four weeks' visit to the Continent, is anxious in the meantime to find
a suitable home for him in some quiet suburban family, who would not object to some fresh and
lively experience introduced into the routine of their domestic circle, in consideration for
a small payment to defray the slight extra cost involved in his support. He will give little
trouble, an empty attic furnished with a hearth-rug supplying him with all the accommodation
he will require, while his food has hitherto consisted of tripe, shovelled to him on a pitchfork,
and stout mixed with inferior rum, of which he gets through about a horse-pailful a day. His
chief recreation being a "Demon's War Dance," in which he will, if one be handy, hack a clothes-horse
to pieces with his "baloo," or two-edged chopper-axe, he might be found an agreeable inmate
by an aged and invalid couple, who would relish a little unusual after-dinner excitement, as
a means of passing away a quiet evening or two. Applicants anxious to secure the Chief should
write at once. Three-and-sixpence a-week will be paid for his keep, which, supplying the place
of the rum in his drink (which has been tried with effect) with methylated spirit mixed with
treacle, affords an ample margin for a handsome profit on the undertaking.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

DEVELOPMENT.

(WITH ACKNOWLEDGMENTS TO THE AUTHOR OF "PATIENCE.")

    ["Even a colour-sense is more important in the development
    of the individual than a sense of right and wrong."--OSCAR
    WILDE.]

  If you're anxious to develop to a true hedonic "swell," hop on a
    pinnacle apart,
  Like a monkey on a stick, and your phrases quaintly pick, and then
    prattle about Art.
  Take some laboured paradoxes, and, like Samson's flaming foxes, let
    them loose amidst the corn
  (Or the honest commonplaces) of the Philistines whose graces you
    regard with lofty scorn.
            And every one will say,
            As you squirm your wormy way,
  "If this young man expresses himself in terms that stagger me,
  What a very singularly smart young man this smart young man must be!"

  You may be a flabby fellow, and lymphatically yellow, that will
    matter not a mite.
  If you take yourself in hand, in a way you'll understand, to become
    a Son of Light.
  On your crassness superimposing the peculiar art of glosing in sleek
    phrases about Sin.
  If you aim to be a Shocker, carnal theories to cocker is the best way
    to begin.
            And every one will say,
            As you worm your wicked way,
  "If that's allowable for him which were criminal in me,
  What a very emancipated kind of youth this kind of youth must be."

  Human virtues you'll abhor all, and be down upon the Moral in
    uncompromising style.
  Your critical analysis will reduce to prompt paralysis every motor
    that's not vile.
  You will show there's naught save virtue that can seriously hurt you,
    or your liberty enmesh;
  And you'll find excitement, plenty, in Art's dolce far niente, with a
    flavour of the flesh.
            And every one will say,
            As you lounge your upward way,
  "If he's content with a do-nothing life, which would certainly not
    suit me.
  What a most particularly subtle young man this subtle young man must be!"

  Then having swamped morality in "intensified personality" (which,
    of course, must mean your own),
  And the "rational" abolished and "sincerity" demolished, you will
    find that you have grown
  With a "colour-sense" fresh handselled (whilst the moral ditto's
    cancelled) you'll develop into--well,
  What Philistia's fools malicious might esteem a vaurien vicious
    (alias "hedonic swell").
            And every one will say,
            As you writhe your sinuous way.
  "If the highest result of the true 'Development' is decomposition,
    why see
  What a very perfectly developed young man this developed young man
    must be."

  With your perky paradoxes, and your talk of "crinkled ox-eyes," and
    of books in "Nile-green skin."
  That show forth unholy histories, and display the "deeper mysteries"
    of strange and subtle Sin.
  You can squirm, and glose, and hiss on, and awake that nouveau
    frisson which is Art's best gift to life.
  And "develop"--like some cancer (in the Art-sphere) whose best answer
    is the silent surgeon's knife!
            And every man will say,
            As you wriggle on your way,
  "If 'emotion for the sake of emotion is the aim of Art,' dear me!
  What a morbidly muckily emotional young man the 'developed' young
    man must be!"

       *       *       *       *       *

THE AMERICAN GIRL.

    [An American Correspondent of The Galignani Messenger is
    very severe on the manners of his fair countrywomen.]

  She "guesses" and she "calculates," she wears all sorts o' collars,
    Her yellow hair is not without suspicion of a dye;
  Her "Pappa" is a dull old man who turned pork into dollars.
    But everyone admits that she's indubitably spry.

  She did Rome in a swift two days, gave half the time to Venice,
    But vows that she saw everything, although in awful haste;
  She's fond of dancing, but she seems to fight shy of lawn-tennis,
    Because it might endanger the proportions of her waist.

  Her manner might be well defined as elegantly skittish;
    She loves a Lord as only a Republican can do;
  And quite the best of titles she's persuaded are the British,
    And well she knows the Peerage, for she reads it through and through.

  She's bediamonded superbly, and shines like a constellation,
    You scarce can see her fingers for the multitude of rings;
  She's just a shade too conscious, so it seems, of admiration,
    With irritating tendencies to wriggle when she sings.

  She owns she is "Amur'can," and her accent is alarming;
    Her birthplace has an awful name you pray you may forget;
  Yet, after all, we own "La Belle Américaine" is charming,
    So let us hope she'll win at last her long-sought coronet. This I have since managed to float on the market,
and, though I worked it on a principle of my own, which, for want of
a better description, I have styled amalgamated "Profit and Loss,"
I regret to have to inform those clients who have entrusted me with
their cheques in the hopes of getting, as I really fully believed
they would, 700 per cent. for their money in three days, that I
have had to close the speculation rather suddenly, and I fear, as the
following illustrative figures will show in a fashion that not only
deprives me of the pleasure of enclosing them a cheque for Profits,
but obliges me to announce to them that their cover has disappeared.
The Stocks with which I operated were "Drachenfonteim Catapults,"
"Catawanga Thirty-fives," and "Blinker's Submarine Explosives." The
ILLUSTRATION, I hoped, would have stood as follows:--

  £100 invested in Drachenfonteim Catatpults,
    showing profit of 1 per cent....£100

  £100 invested in Catawanga Thirty-fives,
    showing profit of 2½ per cent....£250

  £300 invested in Blinker's Submarine Explosives,
    showing profit of 3 per cent....£900

        Gross Profits....£1250

Unfortunately, however, the real figures came out rather differently, for they stood, I regret
to say, as under:--

  £100 invested in Drachenfonteim Catapults,
    at a loss of 5 per cent....£500

  £100 invested in Catawanga Thirty-fives,
    at a loss of 7 per cent....£700

  £300 invested in Blinker's Submarine Explosives,
    at a loss of 4 per cent....£1200

        Total loss....£2400

This, I need scarcely say, has at present not only eaten up every halfpenny of cover, but a
great deal besides; and I am not sure that I shall not have to come down on my clients to make
good the balance. I cannot account for the result, except from the fact that a new clerk read
out the wrong tape; and when I telephoned to my West-End Private Inquiry Agent about these
very three Stocks, he appears not to have heard me distinctly, and thought I was asking him
about Goschens, the old Three-per-Cents., and Bank Stock, about which, of course, he could
only report favourably. It is an awkward mistake, but, as I point out to all my clients, one
must not regard the Dealer as infallible. These things will occur. However, I am going to be
more careful in future; and I may as well announce now, that on Monday next I am about to open
a new Syndicate Combination Pool, with a Stock about which I have made the most thorough and
exhaustive inquiries, with the result that I am convinced an enormous fortune will be at the
command of anyone who will entrust me with a sufficiently large cheque in the shape of cover
to enable me to realise it.

For obvious reasons I keep the name of this Stock at present a dead secret. Suffice it to say,
that the operation in question is connected with an old South-American Gold Mine, about to
be reworked under the auspices of a new company who have bought it for a mere song. When I
tell my clients that I have got all my information from the Chairman, who took down under his
greatcoat a carpet-bag full of crushed quartz carefully mixed with five ounces of gold nuggets,
and emptied this out at the bottom of a disused shaft, and then got a Yankee engineer to report
the discovery of ore in "lumps as big as your fist," and state this in the new prospectus,
they will at once see what a solid foundation I have for this new venture, which must inevitably
fly upwards by leaps and bounds as soon as the shares are placed upon the market. Of course,
when the truth comes out, there will be a reaction, but my clients may trust me to be on the
look-out for that, and, after floating with all their investments to the top of the tide, to
get out of the concern with enormous profits before the bubble eventually bursts. It is by
a command of information of this kind that I hope to ensure the confidence and merit the support
of my friends and patrons. Remember Monday next, and bear in mind a cheque for three-and-sixpence
covers £5000. The subjoined is from my correspondence:--

Sir,--I have as trustee for five orphan nieces to invest for each of them £3 18s. 9d., left
them by a deceased maternal cousin. How ought I to invest this to the greatest advantage with
a due regard to security. What do you say to Goschens? Or would you recommend Rio Diavolos
Galvanics? These promise a dividend of 70 per cent., and although they have not paid one for
some time, are a particularly cheap stock at the present market price, the scrip of the Five
per Cent. Debenture Stock being purchased by a local butterman at seven pounds for a halfpenny.
A Spanish Nobleman who holds some of this, will let me have it even cheaper. What would you
advise me to do? Yours, &c. A TRUSTEE IN A FOG.

Don't touch Goschens, they are not a speculative Stock. You certainly might do worse than the
Rio Diavolos Galvanics. Do not hesitate, but put the little all of your five orphan nieces
into them at once, and wait for the rise.

       *       *       *       *       *

ON THE CARDS.

(BY A WHIST-LOVING MALADE-IMAGINAIRE.)

  Oh, where shall I hit on a "perfect cure"?
  (What ails me I am not quite sure that I'm sure)
  To Nice, where the weather is nice--with vagaries?
  The Engadine soft or the sunny Canaries?
  To Bonn or Wiesbaden? My doctor laconic
  Declares that the Teutonic air is too tonic.
  Shall I do Davos-Platz or go rove the Riviera?
  Or moon for a month in romantic Madeira?
  St. Moritz or Malaga, Aix, La Bourboule?
  Bah! My doctor's a farceur and I am--a fool.
  I will not try Switzerland, Norway, or Rome.
  I'll go in for a rest and a rubber--at home.
  A Windermere wander, and Whist, I feel sure,
  Will give what I'm seeking, a true "Perfect Cure."

       *       *       *       *       *

A BUBBLE FROM THE SUDS.--A Firm of Soap-boilers have been sending round a circular to "Dramatic
Authors" of established reputation, and (no doubt) others, offering to produce gratis the best
piece submitted to them at a "Matinée performance at a West End Theatre." The only formality
necessary to obtain this sweet boon is the purchase of a box of the Firm's soap, which will
further contain a coupon "entitling the owner to send in one new and original play for reading."
The idea that a Dramatic Author of any standing would submit his work to such a tribunal, even
with the dazzling prospect of a Matinée in futuro, is too refreshing! However, as literary
men nowadays fully appreciate the value of their labour, the idea, in spite of the soap with
which it is associated, may be dismissed with the words, "Won't Wash!"

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

Why doesn't some publisher bring out The Utterbosh Series, for, upon my word, says the Baron,
the greater part of the books sent in for "notice" are simply beneath it. Here's one on which
I made notes as I went on, as far as I could get through it. It is called Nemesis: a Moral
Story, by SETON CREWE. Its sole merit would have been its being in one volume, were it not
that this form, being a bait to the unwary, aggravates the offence. The heroine is Lucinda,
a milliner's apprentice. Being compromised by a young gentleman under age, who suddenly quits
the country, she goes to confess her sin to the simple-minded Curate, who sees no way out of
the difficulty except by marrying his penitent, which he does, and after the christening of
her first-born, a joyous event that occurs at no great interval after the happy wedding-day,
the Curate, the Reverend Mr. Smith, is transferred by his Bishop from this parish to somewhere
else a considerable distance off, whence, after a variety of troubles, he goes abroad as a
travelling watering-place clergyman. After this, his wife becomes a Roman Catholic for six
months, and then developes into a thoroughpaced infidel of generally loose character. She takes
up with a Lion Comique of the Music-Halls, who is summarily kicked down-stairs by the Reverend
Mr. Smith on his return home one evening. And at this point I closed the book, not caring one
dump what became of any of the characters, or of the book, or of the writer, and unable to
wait for the moral of this highly "moral story," which, I dare say, might have done me a great
deal of good. So I turned to Vanity Fair, and re-read for the hundredth time, and with increased
pleasure, the great scene where Rawdon Crawley, returning home suddenly, surprises Becky in
her celebrated tête-à-tête with my Lord Steyne.

With pleasure the Baron welcomes Vol. No. IV. of ROUTLEDGE's Carisbrooke Library, which contains
certain Early Prose Romances, the first and foremost among them being the delightful fable
of Reynart the Fox. Have patience with the old English, refer to the explanatory notes, and
its perusal will well repay every reader. How came it about that modern Uncle Remus had caught
so thoroughly the true spirit of this Mediæval romance? I forget, at this moment, who wrote
Uncle Remus--and I beg his pardon for so doing--but whoever it was, he professed only to dress
up and record what he had actually heard from a veritable Uncle Remus. Brer Rabbit, Brer Fox,
and Old Man Bar, are not the creatures of Æsop's Fables; they are the characters in Reynart
the Fox. The tricks, the cunning, the villany of Reynart, unredeemed by aught except his affection
for his wife and family, are thoroughly amusing, and his ultimate success, and increased prosperity;
present a truer picture of actual life than novels in which vice is visibly punished, and virtue
patiently rewarded. And once more I call to mind the latter days of Becky's career.

Speaking of THACKERAY, Messrs. CASSELL & Co. have just brought out a one-and-threepenny edition
("the threepence be demmed!") of the Yellowplush Papers, with a dainty canary-coloured Jeames
on the cover. At the same time the same firm produce, in the same form, The Last Days of Pompeii,
The Last Days of Palmyra, and The Last of the Mohicans. Odd, that the first issue of this new
series should be nearly all "Lasts." The Yellowplush Papers might have been kept back, and
The Last of the Barons been substituted, just to make the set of lasts perfect. The expression
is suggestive of Messrs. CASSELL going in for the shoemaking trade. The Last Days of Palmyra
I have never read. "I will try it," says the bold Baron.

But what means this new style of printing on thin double sheets? One advantage is that no cutting
is required. If this form become the fashion, better thus to bring out the Utterbosh Series,
which shall then escape the critics' hands,--no cutting being required. There are, as those
who use the paper-knife to these volumes will discover, in this new issue of Messrs. CASSELL's,
two blank pages for every two printed ones, so that a new novel might be written in MS. inside
the printed one. The paper is good and clean to the touch; but I prefer the stiff cover to
the limp, "there's more backbone about it," says the

BARON DE BOOK-WORMS.

Scarcely time to bring out a pocket edition (like those genuine pocketable and portable editions,
the red-backed ROUTLEDGES) of The Bride of Lammermoor, between now and the date of its production,
next Saturday, at the Lyceum. But worth while doing it as soon as possible. Advice gratis.
B. DE B.-W.

P.S.--(Important to Authors and Scribblers.)--Unfortunately the Baron has been compelled to
take to his bed (which he doesn't "take to" at all--but this by the way), and there write.
Once more he begs to testify to the excellence both of The Hairless Author's Pad--no The Author's
Hairless Pad--and of the wooden rest and frame into which it fits. Nothing better for an invalid
than rest for his frame, and here are rest and frame in one. Given these (or, if not "given,"
purchased), and a patent indelible-ink-lead pencil (whose patent I don't know, as, with much
use, the gold-lettering is almost obliterated from mine, and all I can make out is the word
"Eagle"), and the convalescent author may do all his work in comfort, without mess or muddle;
and hereto, once again, I set my hand and seal, so know all men by these presents, all to the
contrary nevertheless and notwithstanding. B. DE B.-W.

       *       *       *       *       *

GREEN PASTURES OR PICCADILLY?

TO THE EDITOR.

Sir,--I see that you have opened your columns to a discussion of the relative advantages of
life in London and the Suburbs. I don't think that really the two can be compared. If you want
perfect quietude can you get it better than in a place where, between nine and six, not a single
male human being is visible, all of them being in town? Some people may call this dull; but
I like it. Then everything is so cheap in the Suburbs! I only pay £100 a year for a nice house
in a street, with a small bath-room, and a garden quite as large as a full-sized billiard-table.
People tell me I could get the same thing in London, but of course a suburban street must be
nicer than a London one. We are just outside the Metropolitan main drainage system, and our
death-rate is rather heavy, but then our rates are light. My butcher only charges me one-and-twopence
a pound for best joints, and though this is a little dearer than London, the meat is probably
more wholesome from being in such good air as we enjoy. In wintertime the journey to town,
half-an-hour by train, has a most bracing effect on those capable of bearing severe cold. For
the rest, the incapables are a real blessing to those who sell mustard-plasters and extra-sized
pocket-handkerchiefs. Our society is so select and refined that I verily believe Belgravia
can show nothing like it! Yours obediently,

FAR FROM THE MADDING CROWD.

Sir,--The Suburbs are certainly delightful, if you have a good train service; but this you
seldom get. I do not complain of our Company taking three-quarters of an hour to perform the
distance of eight and a half miles to the City, as this seems a good, average suburban rate,
but I do think the "fast" train (which performs the distance in that time) might start a little
later than 8.30 A.M. Going in to business at 10.30 by an "ordinary" train, which stops at sixteen
stations, and takes an hour and a half, becomes after a time rather monotonous. It involves
a painful "Rush in Urbe" to get through business in time to catch the 4.30 "express" back,
a train which (theoretically) stops nowhere.

COUNTRY CUSSIN'.

Sir,--No more London for me! I've tried it, and know what it's like. I have found a delightful
cottage, twenty miles from town, and mean to live in it always. Do we ever have one of your
nasty yellow fogs here? Never! Nothing more than a thick white mist, which rises from the fields
and envelopes the house every night. It is true that several of our family complain of rheumatism,
and when I had rheumatic fever myself a month ago, I found it a little inconvenient being six
miles from a doctor and a chemist's shop. But then my house is so picturesque, with an Early
English wooden porch (which can be kept from falling to pieces quite easily by hammering a
few nails in now and then, and re-painting once a week), and no end of gables, which only let
the water into the bedrooms in case of a very heavy shower. Then think of the delights of a
garden, and a field (for which I pay £20 a year, and repair the hedges), and chickens! I don't
think I have spent more than £50 above what I should have done in London, owing to the necessity
of fitting up chicken-runs and buying a conservatory for my wife, who is passionately fond
of flowers. Unfortunately my chickens are now moulting, and decline to lay again before next
March; so I bring back fresh eggs from town, and, as my conservatory is not yet full, flowers
from Covent Garden; and I can assure you that, until you try it, you cannot tell the amount
of pleasure and exercise which walking a couple of miles (the distance of my cottage from the
station), laden with groceries and other eatables, can be made to afford. Yours chirpily,

FIELD-FARE.

       *       *       *       *       *

GOOD FOR SPORT!--A well-known chartered accountant, with a vulpine patronymic, complains of
the unkind treatment he recently received in Cologne at the hands of the German police. He
should be consoled by the thought, that his persecution marked in those latitudes the introduction
of Fox-hunting.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE QUICKSAND!

  Is this the Eagle-hunter,
  The valiant fate-confronter,
  The soldier brave, and blunter
    Of speech than BISMARCK's self?
  This bungler all-disgracing,
  This braggart all-debasing.
  This spurious sportsman, chasing
    No nobler prey than pelf?

  The merest "fly in amber,"
  He after eagles clamber?
  Nay, faction's ante-chamber
    Were fitter place for him,
  A trifler transitory,
  To gasconade of "glory"!
  He'd foul fair France's story,
    Her lustre pale and dim.

  Les Coulisses? Ah, precisely!
  They suit his nature nicely,
  Who bravely, nobly, wisely,
    Can hardly even "act."
  Histrio all blague and blather,
  Is it not pity, rather,
  One Frenchman should foregather
    With him in selfish pact?

  In selfish pact--but silly.
  His neighbouring, willy-nilly,
  Must smirch the Bee, the Lily,
    Or stain the snow-white flag.
  Wielder of mere stage-dagger,
  Loud lord of empty swagger,
  In peril's hour a lagger.
    A Paladin of Brag!

  And now his venture faileth,
  And now his valour paleth;
  Et après? What availeth
    His aid to those who'd use him?
  Imperial or Royal,
  What "patron" will prove loyal
  Unto this "dupe"? They'll joy all
    To mock, expose, abuse him!

  But from the contest shrinking,
  The draught of failure drinking,
  In trickery's quicksand sinking,
    Pulls he not others down?
  Will PLON-PLON stand securely,
  The COMTE pose proudly, purely,
  Whilst slowly but most surely
    Their tool must choke or drown?

  Indifferent France sits smiling.
  And what avails reviling?
  Such pitch without defiling
    Can "Prince" or "Patriot" touch?
  This quicksand unromantic
  Closes on him, the Antic,
  Whose hands with gestures frantic
    Contiguous coat-tails clutch.

  The furious factions splutter,
  Power's cheated claimants mutter,
  And foiled fire-eaters utter
    Most sanguinary threats.
  "He Freedom's fated suckler?
  The traitor, trickster, truckler!"
  So fumes the fierce swash-buckler,
    And his toy-rapier whets.

  But will that quicksand only
  Engulph him lost and lonely?
  The fraud exposed, the known lie,
    The bribe at length betrayed,
  Must whelm this sham detected,
  But what may be expected
  From "Honour" shame-infected,
    And "Kingship" in the shade?

       *       *       *       *       *

THE RAVENSTEIN.

    [Mr. RAVENSTEIN, at the British Association, considered
    the question, how long it will be before the world becomes
    over-populated.]

Punch to the Prophet.

  Prophet of o'er-population, your ingenious calculation,
  Causeth discombobulation only in the anxious mind
  That forecasts exhausted fuel, or the period when the duel
  Will have given their final gruel to French journalists; a kind
  Of cantankerous, rancorous spitfires, blusterous, braggart, boyish, blind,
    Who much mourning scarce would find.

  Prophet of o'er-population, when the centuries in rotation
  Shall have filled our little planet till it tends to running o'er,
  Will this world, with souls o'erladen, be a Hades or an Aidenn?
  Will man, woman, boy and maiden, be less civilised, or more?
  That's the question, RAVENSTEIN! What boots a billion, less or more,
    If Man still is fool or boor?

  "Seek not to proticipate" is Mrs. Gamp's wise maxim. Great is
  Mankind's number now, but "take 'em as they come, and as they go,"
  Like the philosophic Sairey; and though the sum total vary,
  Other things may vary likewise, things we dream not, much less know,
  Don't you think, my RAVENSTEIN, our state ten centuries hence or so
    We may prudently--let go?

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

TO A TRUMPETING DEMOCRAT.

    [MR. ANDREW CARNEGIE, the Iron King and millionnaire of
    Pittsburg, has been addressing big audiences in Scotland.
    Amongst his remarks were the following:--"It is said that in
    America, although we have no aristocracy, we are cursed with
    a plutarchy. Let me tell you about that. A man who carries a
    million dollars on his back carries a load.... When I speak
    against the Royal Family I do not condescend to speak of
    the creatures who form the Royal Family--persons are so
    insignificant.... We laugh at your ideas in this petty little
    country having anything to say to the free and independent
    citizens who walk through Canada, Australia, and America.
    You know how to get rid of a Monarchy. Brazil has taught
    you."--&c., &c.]

  CARNEGIE, pray take notice, since I know that it would blister
  The thin skin of a democrat, I drop the title "Mr.,"
  You have talked a lot of bunkum, all mixed up with most terrific cant.
  But you truly said that "persons are so very insignificant;"
  And the author of a speech I read, part scum and partly dreggy,
  Is perhaps the least significant--that windbag named CARNEGIE.
  But your kindness most appals me, Sir; how really, truly gracious,
  For one whose home is in the States, free, great, and most capacious,
  To come to poor old England (where the laws but make the many fit
  To lick a Royal person's boots), and all for England's benefit.
  To preach to us, and talk to us, to tell us how effete we are,
  How like a flock of silly sheep who merely baa and bleat we are.
  And how "this petty little land," which prates so much of loyalty,
  Is nothing but a laughing-stock to Pittsburg Iron-Royalty.
  How titles make a man a rake, a drunkard, and the rest of it,
  While plain (but wealthy) democrats in Pittsburg have the best of it.
  How, out in Pennsylvania, the millionnaires are panting
  (Though there's something always keeps them fat) for monetary banting.
  How free-born citizens complain, with many Yankee curses,
  Of fate which fills, in spite of them, their coffers and their purses.
  How, if the man be only poor, there's nothing that can stop a cit
  In Yankeeland, while here with us the case is just the opposite.
  How honest British working-men who fail to fill their larder
  Should sail for peace and plenty by the very next Cunarder.
  And how, in short, if Britishers want freedom gilt with millions,
  They can't do wrong to imitate the chivalrous Brazilians.

  Well, well, I know we have our faults, quite possibly a crowd of them,
  And sometimes we deceive ourselves by thinking we are proud of them;
  But we never can have merited that you should set the law to us,
  And rail at us, and sneer at us, and preach to us, and "jaw" to us.
  We're much more tolerant than some; let those who hate the law go
  And spout sedition in the streets of anarchist Chicago;
  And, after that, I guarantee they'll never want to roam again,
  Until they get a first-class hearse to take their bodies home again.

  But stay, I've hit upon a plan: We'll, first of all, relieve you
  Of all your million dollars that so onerously grieve you;
  Then, if some loud, conceited fool wants taking down a peg, he
  Shall spend an hour or so in talk with democrat CARNEGIE.
  For all men must admit 'twould be an act of mere insanity
  To try to match this Pittsburger in bluster or in vanity.
  And oh, when next our Chancellor is anxious for a loan, Sir,
  He'll buy you in at our price, and he'll sell you at your own, Sir.
  And if you don't like English air, why, dash it, you may lump it,
  Or go and blow in other climes your most offensive trumpet!

       *       *       *       *       *

ROBERT UP THE RIVER.

I atended on a Party larst week as went up the River (our nice little Stream, as the aughty
Amerrycanes calls it) to Ship Lake, tho' why it's called so I coodn't at all make out, as there
ain't no Ship nor no Lake to be seen there, ony a werry little Werry, and a werry littel River,
and a werry littel Hiland; and it was prinsepally to see how the appy yung Gents who sumtimes
lives on the same littel Hiland, in littel Tents, was a gitting on, as injuced all on us, me
and all, to go there. It seems that for years parst quite a littel Collony of yung Gents as
gets their living in the grand old Citty has been in the habit of spending their littel summer
Hollydays there, but, somehows or other, as I coodn't quite understand, the master of the littel
Hiland made up his mind for to sell it, and all the yung Gents was in dispair, and wundered
where on airth they shood spend their Hollydays in future. But they needn't have been afeard--there
was a grand old hinstitushun called "The Copperashun!" as had both their ears and both their
eyes open when they heard about it. So when the time came for it to be sold, they jest quietly
says to one of their principel Chairmen (who is sich a King of Good Fellers that they all calls
him by that name, and he arnsers to it jest as if it was the werry name as was guv him by his
Godfathers and his Godmothers, as I myself heard with my own ears), "Go and buy it!" So off
he goes at wunce and buys it, and the kindly Copperashun Gents as I went with larst week, went
to take possesshun on it acordingly, and to see if anythink coud be done to make the yung Campers-out
ewen more cumferabel than they ewer was afore! Ah, that's what I calls trew Pattriotizm, and
trew Libberality, if you likes, and that's what makes 'em so much respeckted.

Our Gents was all considrably surprized at the lots of Tents as was all a standing on Ship
Lake Island; one on 'em, who was got up quite in a naughtical style, said as he was estonished
to see so many on 'em pitched, but I think as he must ha' bin mistaken, for I didn t see not
none on 'em pitched, tho' I dessay it might ha' been werry usefool in keeping out the rain
on a remarkabel wet night.

By sum mistake on sumboddy's part, there wasn't not no yung Campers-out to receeve us, and
so fears was hentertaned that they wood have to cum again shortly; but they are bold plucky
gents, is the men of the Copperashun, and they one and all xpressed their reddiness to do it
at the call of dooty. Besides, we had sich a reel Commodore a board as made us all quite reddy
to brave the foaming waves again. Why, he guv out the word of command, whether it was to "Port
the Helem," or to "Titen the mane braces," as if he had bin a Hadmiral at the werry least,
and his galliant crew obeyed him without not no grumbling or ewen thretening to strike!

By one of them striking and remarkabel ocurrences as happens so offen, who shood we appen to
find at Ship Lake, but one of the werry poplarest of the Court of Haldermen, and what shood
he do but ask 'em all in to lunch at his splendid manshun, and what shood they all do but jump
at the hoffer, and what does he do, for a lark, I serppose--if so be as a reel Poplar Alderman
ewer does have sich a thing as a lark--and give 'em all sich a gloryous spread, as I owerheard
one henergetick Deperty describe it, as hutterly deprived 'em all of the power of heating a
bit of dinner till the werry next day, to which time they wisely put it off, and then thorowly
injoyed it.

In course, I'm not allowed to menshun not no names on these conferdential ocasions, but I did
hear "the Commodore" shout to "the King" sumthink about "Hansum is as Hansum does," but it
was rayther too late in the heavening for me to be able to quite unnerstand his elusions.

I am 'appy to be able to report that we every one on us arrived in Town quite safe and quite
happy, xcep sum of the pore hard-working crew who are left at Marlow till further orders. ROBERT.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

A SPORTING STYLE.

(THIRD EXAMPLE.)

Two examples of a correct sporting style have been already laid before the public. For convenience
of reference they may be defined as the mixed-pugilistic and the insolent. There is, however,
a third variety, the equine, in which everyone who aspires to wield the pen of a sporting reporter
must necessarily be a proficient. It may be well to warn a beginner that he must not attempt
this style until he has laid in a large stock of variegated metaphoric expressions. As a matter
of fact one horse-race is very much like another in its main incidents, and the process of
betting against or in favour of one horse resembles, more or less, the process of betting about
any other. The point is, however, to impart to monotonous incidents a variety they do not possess;
and to do this properly a luxuriant vocabulary is essential. For instance, in the course of
a race, some horses tire, or, to put it less offensively, go less rapidly than others. The
reporter will say of such a horse that he (1) "shot his bolt," or (2) "cried peccavi," or (3)
"cried a go," or (4) "compounded," or (5) "exhibited signals of distress," or (6) "fired minute
guns," or (7) "fell back to mend his bellows," or (8) "seemed to pause for reflection."

Again, in recording the upward progress of horses in the betting market, it would be ridiculous
to say of all of them merely that they became hot favourites. Vary, therefore, occasionally,
by saying of one, for example, that "here was another case of one being eventually served up
warm"; of another, that "plenty of the talent took 7 to 4 about Mousetrap;" of a third, that
"Paradox had the call at 4 to 1;" and of a fourth, that "a heap of money, and good money too,
went on Backslide." After these preliminary instructions, Mr. Punch offers his

Third Example.--Event to be described: A horse-race. Names of horses and jockeys, weights,
&c., supplied.

Considerable delay took place. Little Benjy made a complete hole in his manners by bolting.
Eventually, however, the flag tell to a capital start. Burglar Bill on the right cut out the
work[1] from Paladin, who soon began to blow great guns, and after a quarter of a mile had
been negotiated yielded his pride of place to Cudlums with The P'liceman in attendance, Sobriety
lying fourth, and D. T. close behind. Thus they raced to the bend, where Burglar Bill cried
peccavi, and Cudlums having shot her bolt, Sobriety was left in front, only to be challenged
by Cropeared Sue, who had been coming through her horses with a wet sail. Bounding the bend
SIMPSON called upon Mrs. Brady and literally took tea with her rivals,[2] whom he nailed to
the counter one after another. The favourite compounded at the distance, and Mrs. Brady romped
home the easiest of winners, four lengths ahead of Cropeared Sue; a bad third. The rest were
whipped in by Flyaway, who once more failed to justify the appellation bestowed upon him.

Mr. Punch flatters himself that, upon the above model, the report of any race-meeting could
be accurately constructed at home. In future, therefore, no reporter should go to the expense
of leaving London for Epsom, Newmarket, Ascot, or Goodwood.

[Footnote 1: Note this sentence. It is essential.]

[Footnote 2: At first sight it would appear more natural that SIMPSON (presumably a jockey)
having called upon Mrs. Brady, should take tea with her rather than with her rivals. But a
sporting style involves us in puzzles.]

       *       *       *       *       *

A CENTENARIAN.

    "This is the centenary of the tall hat."--Daily News.

  A hundred years of hideousness,
  Constricted brows, and strain, and stress!
  And still, despite humanity's groan,
  The torturing, "tall-hat" holds its own!
  What proof more sure and melancholy
  Of the dire depths of mortal folly?
  Mad was the hatter who invented
  The demon "topper," and demented
  The race that, spite of pain and jeers,
  Has borne it--for One Hundred Years!

       *       *       *       *       *

HAMLET AT THE VEGETARIAN CONGRESS.

  Yea, from the table of my dining-room,
  I'll take away all tasty joints and entrées.
  All sorts of meat, all forms of animal diet
  That the carnivorous cook hath gathered there:
  And, by commandment, will entirely live
  Within the bounds of vegetable food,
  Unmixed with savoury matters. Yes, by heaven!
  O most pernicious Meat!
  O Mutton, beef, and pork, digestion-spoiling!
  My tables, my tables! Meat? I'll put it down;
  For men may dine, and dine, and do no killing,
  At least I'm sure it may be so--on lentils.
  So, gourmand, there you are! Now to my menu;
  It is, "All Vegetables and no Meat!"
  I have sworn't!

       *       *       *       *       *

INTERVIEWING À LA MODE.

(QUITE AT THE SERVICE OF SOME OF MR. PUNCH'S CONTEMPORARIES.)

One of our Representatives called a few days since upon Mr. BROWN, senior member of the well-known
firm of Messrs. BROWN, JONES, AND ROBINSON. The Eminent General Dealer was seated "in his counting-house,"
as the nursery-song hath it, "counting out his money."

"Come in, come in!" said Mr. BROWN, cordially, as he somewhat hurriedly looked up the coin
in a safe out of our reach. "I am delighted to see you."

"Glad to hear it," we replied, rather drily. "We want to put a few questions to you, in the
interest of the public."

"As many as you please. I am, as you know, a man of business; still, the resources of our establishment
are so vast, that my place can be supplied without inconvenience to our thousands, I may say
millions of customers. And now, Sir, what can I do for you?"

"Well, Mr. BROWN, speaking in the name of civilisation, I would wish to ask you if you have
much sale for SMASHUP's Concentrated Essence of Cucumbers (registered), in the larger bottles?"

"Yes, Sir, we have; although the smaller sizes are, possibly, a trifle more popular."

"What do you think of COTTONBACK's Fleur de Lyons Putney Satin?"

"A most admirable material for home wear, although we do not recommend it for use at a party,
a ball, or a reception. For festive occasions we do a very large trade in GIGGLEWATER's Superfine
Velvet South American Moiré Antique as advertised."

"Indeed! Perhaps, you can mention a few more articles that in your judgment you believe it
will interest our readers to learn about."

"Pardon me, but don't you put that sentence a trifle clumsily?"

Our Representative smiled and blushed. Then he admitted that Mr. BROWN might be right.

"Ha! ha! ha!" laughed the Senior Partner, in great glee. "You see I have my head screwed on
the right way! But to answer you. GOTEMON's Patent Alligator's Skin Braces are attracting much
attention just now, so is WIPE's Castle 2 Imperial William Champagne, which finds (I may observe
confidentially) a ready sale at thirty-two shillings the dozen. Then there are AKE's Electric
Tooth-brushes, and CRAX's Stained-glass Solid Mahogany Brass-mounted Elizabethan Mantel-boards.
Then, of course, I must not forget BOLTER's Washhandstands and BOUNDER's Anti-agony Aromatic
Pills."

"And all these articles sell largely?"

"Very largely, indeed. And so they should; for they are well worth the money they cost."

"Indeed they are, or I should not find them in your establishment."

"You are very good. And now, à propos of your journal, will you permit me to pay a return compliment?"

"Certainly," we replied. "You have noticed an improvement in our columns?"

"Unquestionably I have," returned Mr. BROWN, emphatically. "I have observed that of late you
have given much interesting matter in the body of your paper that heretofore used to be reserved
for the pages exclusively devoted to advertisements. I congratulate you!"

And with a courteous wave of his hand and a bow of dismissal, the Eminent Pillar of Commerce
delicately intimated to us that our interview was at an end.

       *       *       *       *       *

'ARRY ON THE SINCEREST FORM OF FLATTERY.

  DEAR CHARLIE,--Your faviour to 'and in doo course, as the quill-drivers
    say;
  Likeways also the newspaper cuttins enclosed. You're on Rummikey's lay.
  Awful good on yer, CHARLIE, old chummy, to take so much trouble for me;
  But do keep on yer 'air, dear old pal; I am still right end uppards,
    yer see.

  You are needled along of some parties,--er course you ain't fly to their
    names,--
  As has bin himitating Yours Truly. Way-oh! It's the oldest o' games,
  Himitation is, CHARLIE. It makes one think DARWIN was right, anyhow,
  And that most on us did come from monkeys, which some ain't so fur from
    'em now.

  You start a smart game, or a paying one--something as knocks 'em, dear
    boy,
  No matter, mate, whether it's mustard, or rhymes, or a sixpenny toy;
  They'll be arter you, nick over nozzle, the smuggers of notions and nips,
  For the mugs is as 'ungry for wrinkles as broken-down bookies for tips.

  Look at DICKENS, dear boy, and Lord TENNYSON--ain't they bin copied all
    round?
  Wy, I'm told some as liked ALFRED's verses at fust, is now sick of the
    sound;
  All along o' the parrots, my pippin. Ah, that's jest the wust o' sech
    fakes!
  People puke at the shams till they think the originals ain't no great
    shakes.

  'Tain't fair, CHARLIE, not by a jugful, but anger's all fiddle-de-dee;
  They may copy my style till all's blue, but they won't discombobulate me.
  Names and metres is anyone's props; but of one thing they don't get the
    'ang;
  They ain't fly to good patter, old pal, they ain't copped the straight
    griffin on slang.

  'Tisn't grammar and spellin' makes patter, nor yet snips and snaps of
    snide talk.
  You may cut a moke out o' pitch-pine, mate, and paint it, but can't make
    it walk.
  You may chuck a whole Slang Dixionary by chunks in a stodge-pot of chat,
  But if 'tisn't alive, 'tain't chin-music, but kibosh, and corpsey at
    that.

  Kerrectness be jolly well jiggered! Street slang isn't Science, dear pal,
  And it don't need no "glossery" tips to hinterpret my chat to my gal.
  I take wot comes 'andy permiskus, wotever runs sliok and fits in,
  And when smugs makes me out a "philolergist,"--snuffers! it do make me
    grin!

  Still there's fitness, dear boy, and unfitness, and some of these jossers,
    jest now,
  Who himitate 'ARRY's few letters with weekly slapdabs of bow-wow,
  'Ave about as much "fit" in their "slang" as a slop-tailor's six-and-six
    bags.
  No, Yours Truly writes only to you, and don't spread hisself out in the
    Mags.

  Mister P. prints my letters, occasional, once in a while like, dear boy;
  For patter's like love-letters, CHARLIE, too long and too frequent, they
    cloy.
  I agree there with Samivel Veller. My echoes I've no wish to stop,
  But I'd jest like to say 'tisn't me as is slopping' all over the shop.

  It do give me the ditherums, CHARLIE, it makes me feel quite quisby snitch,
  To see the fair rush for a feller as soon as he's found a good pitch.
  Jest like anglers, old man, on the river; if one on 'em spots a prime swim,
  And is landing 'em proper, you bet arf the others'll crowd about him.

  But there's law for the rodsters, I'm told, CHARLIE; so many foot left and
    right;
  And you'll see the punts spotted at distance, like squodrons of troops at
    a fight.
  But in Trade, Art, and Littery lines, CHARLIE, 'anged if there's any fair
    play,
  And the "cullerable himitation" is jest the disgrace of the day.

  Sech scoots scurryfunging around on the gay old galoot, to go snacks
  In the profits of other folks' notions, have put you, old pal, in a wax.
  Never mind their shenanigan, CHARLIE; it don't do much hurt, anyhow;
  I was needled a trifle at fust, but I'm pooty scroodnoodleous now.

  I'm all right and a arf, mate, I am, and ain't going' to rough up, no
    fear!
  Becos two or three second-hand 'ARRIES is tipping the public stale beer.
  The old tap'll turn on now and then, not too often, and as for the rest,
  The B.P. has a taste for sound tipple, and knows when it's served with
    the best.

  If mine don't 'old its own on its merits, then way-oh! for someone's
    as does!
  All cop and no blue ain't my motter; that's all tommy-rot and buz-wuz.

