In this case we fear it can't be done, even with practice. It is, they suggest, the story of
the flowering of perfect love between two married folk who had drifted apart. It is really
an admirable epitome of the War as seen through one pair of eyes and one particular temperament.
I don't recall another War novel that is so convincing. The almost incredible confusions of
the early days of the making of K.'s army; the gradual shaping of the great instrument; the
comradeship of fine spirits and the intrigues of meaner; leadership good and less good; action
with its energy, glory and horror; reaction (with incidentally a most moving analysis of the
agonies of shell-shock and protracted neurasthenia) after the long strain of campaigning--all
this is brought before you in the most vivid manner. Mr. GILBERT FRANKAU writes with a fierce
sincerity and with perhaps the defects of that sincerity--a bitterness against the non-combatant
which was not usual in the fighting- man, at least when he was fighting; or perhaps it was
only that they were too kind then to say so. Also as "one of us" he is a little overwhelmed
by the sterling qualities of the rank-and-file--qualities which ought, he would be inclined
to assume, to be the exclusive product of public-school playing-fields. I haven't said that
Peter Jackson gave up cigars and cigarettes for the sword, and beat that into a plough-share
for a small-holding when the War was done. A jolly interesting book.

       *       *       *       *       *

I found the arrangement of The Clintons and Others (COLLINS) at first a little confusing, because
Mr. ARCHIBALD MARSHALL, instead of keeping his Clinton tales consecutive, has mixed them democratically
with the Others. Our first sight of the family (and incidentally the most agreeable thing in
the volume) is provided by "Kencote," a brightly- coloured and engaging anecdote of Regency
times, and of the plucking of an honoured house from the ambiguous patronage of the First Gentleman
in Europe. I found this delightful, spirited, picturesque and original. Thence we pass to the
Others, to the theme (old, but given here with a pleasant freshness of circumstance) of maternal
craft in averting a threatened mésalliance, to a study of architecture in its effect upon character,
to a girls' school tale; finally to the portrait of a modern Squire Clinton, struggling to
adjust his mind to the complexities of the War. This last, a character-study of very moving
and sympathetic realism, suffers a little from a defect inherent in one of Mr. MARSHALL'S best
qualities, his gift for absolutely natural dialogue. The danger of this is that, as here in
the bedroom chatter of the Squire's daughters, his folk are apt to repeat themselves, as talk
does in nature, but should not (I suppose) in art. Still this is a small defect in a book that
is sincere in quality and convincingly human in effect. The Clintons and Others is certainly
miles away from the collections of reprinted pot-boilers that at one time brought books of
short stories into poor repute. Mr. MARSHALL and Others (a select band) will rapidly correct
this by giving us in small compass work equal to their own best.

       *       *       *       *       *

