Furthermore, although these accidental variations allow certain creatures to survive in crises
of difficulty, yet they also make the conditions of their survival more complicated and hard
to secure. All that differentiates man from an amoeba has enabled him to get safe through certain
straits where the lower forms of life were left behind to perish; but it has also made it impossible
for him to live in the simpler conditions he has escaped from; like a parvenu whose luxurious
habits have gradually created a number of new necessities for him, which make a return to his
original poverty and hardships quite impracticable. If the development of lungs has allowed
animals to come out of the water into the air, it has also prevented their going back again.
Furthermore, a considerable amount of vital energy is consumed in the production, support,
and repair of all this supplementary, life-preserving apparatus; just as, much of the national
wealth for whose protection they exist is absorbed by a standing army and other military preparations.
And in fact of two countries otherwise equal in wealth, that is surely the better off which
has no need of being thus armed up to the teeth. Thus man's superior organization may be compared
to the overcoat and umbrella with which one sets out on a threatening morning; very desirable
should it rain, but a great nuisance should it clear up.

It seems, then, that the highest organism is that which produces or secures the greatest quantity
of life in the simplest manner, and at the cost of the least complexity of structure and function;
while the lowest is that which yields the least quantity at the greatest cost; and between
these two extremes organisms will be ranked by the ratio of their complexity to their life-productivity--life
being measured mathematically (as something homogeneous) by its vigour, by its duration, and
by the amount of matter animated, whether in the individual or in its progeny. It is obvious
how, at this rate, our zoological hierarchy is turned topsy-turvy; and how difficult it will
be to show that man is a better life-machine than, say, a mud-turtle with its centuries of
vital existence.

It would be a monstrous allegation to say that any evolutionist would defend these conclusions
in all their crudity; but is only by thus pushing implied principles to their results, that
their incoherence can be made plain. Once more, if this simple uniform thing called life be
the sole cause, determining organic Evolution and selecting accidental variations, just in
so far as they favour its own maintenance and multiplication, then every organ, appliance,
and faculty by which man differs from the simplest bioplast, is merely a life-preserving contrivance.
To speak human-wise, Nature in that case has but one end--animal life; and chooses every means
solely with a view to that end. She does not care about pain or pleasure, or consciousness,
or knowledge, or truth, or morality, or society, or science, or religion, for their own sakes;
she cares for life only, and for these so far as--like horns and teeth and claws--they are
conducive to life. Evolution therefore is governed by a blind non-moral principle--as blind
and ruthless as gravitation. This being so, the mind is for the sake of the body, and not conversely.
Evolution is not making for truth and righteousness as for greater or even as for co-ordinate
ends; but simply for life, to which sometimes truth and righteousness, but just as often illusion
and selfishness, are means. There is nothing therefore in this process of Nature to make us
trust that our mind really makes for truth as such, or that it has any essential tendency to
greater correspondence with reality, beyond what subserves to fuller animal existence. The
fact that a certain belief makes animal life possible is no proof of its truth, but only of
its expediency. The extent to which many pleasures depend on illusion is proverbial; and pleasure
is almost the note of vital vigour, according to this philosophy.

Plainly, our argument from the adaptability of a belief to man's higher moral needs, vanishes
into thin air as soon as the key to the order of nature is thus sought in a blind non-moral
tendency, and when that which is lowest is put at the top, and everything above it made to
minister to it.

But then it is not only this particular argument that perishes, but all possibility of arguing
at all, all faith in our mental faculties, except so far as they minister to the finding of
food and the propagation of life. Thus the very attempt to prove such a system of Evolution
is a contradiction, since it cuts away all basis of proof. On this I need not dwell longer,
since it has been worked out so fully and clearly by others. We get rid of the argument from
adaptability, by a conception of the order of Nature that reduces us to mental and moral chaos.

In its semblance of simplicity this form of Evolution-philosophy shows itself kin to those
other old-world attempts to dispense with a governing mind, and to educe the existing cosmos
from the blind strife of primordial atoms. It has indeed a more plausible basis, seeing how
many things, too quickly attributed to design in a theological age, can really be explained
by the struggle for existence. But in trying to make an occasional and partial cause universal
and ultimate, it has undertaken the impossible task of bringing the greater out of the less;
which really means bringing their difference out of nothing--and this is creation with the
First Cause left out; that is, spontaneous creation. It is from first to last an "aggregation"
theory, and has to face the insupportable burdens which such a theory brings with it. Haunted
by a false analogy drawn from the political organism whose members are intelligent and self-directive,
and who put themselves under an intelligent government to be marshalled and directed to one
common end--haunted by this anthropomorphic conception, it tries to explain how independent
and indestructible units, void of all intelligence, come together into polities with no assignable
government; and how these groups or polities, which are nothing separate from the sum of their
components, are aggregated to one another in like manner; until at last we come to the highest
organism, which again is only the sum of its ultimate atoms, and its activity the sum of their
activities--the whole distinction between highest and lowest organism being such as exists
between a society of two and a highly complex civilized state. And all this political life
is the spontaneous work of unintelligent units; that is to say, we have results exceeding the
highest ever attained by human intelligence, long before intelligence or sentience has yet
been evolved.

