THE

ATLANTIC MONTHLY.

A MAGAZINE OF LITERATURE, ART, AND POLITICS.

VOL. XIII.--MARCH, 1864.--NO. LXXVII.

THE QUEEN OF CALIFORNIA.

I can see the excitement which this title arouses as it is flashed across the sierras, down
the valleys, and into the various reading-rooms and parlors of the Golden City of the Golden
State. As the San Francisco "Bulletin" announces some day, that in the "Atlantic Monthly,"
issued in Boston the day before, one of the articles is on "The Queen of California," what
contest, in every favored circle of the most favored of lands, who the Queen may be! Is it
the blond maiden who took a string of hearts with her in a leash, when she left us one sad
morning? is it the hardy, brown adventuress, who, in her bark-roofed lodge, serves us out our
boiled dog daily, as we come home from our water-gullies, and sews on for us weekly the few
buttons which we still find indispensable in that toil? is it some Jessie of the lion-heart,
heroine of a hundred days or of a thousand? is it that witch with gray eyes, cunningly hidden,--were
they puzzled last night, or were they all wisdom crowded?--as she welcomed me, and as she bade
me good-bye? Good Heavens! how many Queens of California are regnant this day! and of any one
of them this article might be written.

No, Señores! No, Caballeros! Throng down to the wharves to see the Golden Era or the Cornelius's
Coffin, or whatever other mail-steamer may bring these words to your longing eyes. Open to
the right and left as Adams's express-messenger carries the earliest copy of the "Atlantic
Monthly," sealed with the reddest wax, tied with the reddest tape, from the Corner Store direct
to him who was once the life and light of the Corner Store, who now studies eschscholtzias
through a telescope thirty-eight miles away on Monte Diablo! Rush upon the newsboy who then
brings forth the bale of this Journal for the Multitude, to find that the Queen of California
of whom we write is no modern queen, but that she reigned some five hundred and fifty-five
years ago. Her precise contemporaries were Amadis of Gaul, the Emperor Esplandian, and the
Sultan Radiaro. And she flourished, as the books say, at the time when this Sultan made his
unsuccessful attack on the city of Constantinople,--all of which she saw, part of which she was.

She was not petite, nor blond, nor golden-haired. She was large and black as the ace of clubs.
But the prejudice of color did not then exist even among the most brazen-faced or the most
copper-headed. For, as you shall learn, she was reputed the most beautiful of women; and it
was she, O Californians, who wedded the gallant prince Talanque,--your first-known king. The
supporters of the arms of the beautiful shield of the State of California should be, on the
right, a knight armed cap-à-pie, and, on the left, an Amazon sable, clothed in skins, as you
shall now see.

Mr. E. E. Hale, of Boston, sent to the Antiquarian Society last year a paper which shows that
the name of California was known to literature before it was given to our peninsula by Cortés.
Cortés discovered the peninsula in 1535, and seems to have called it California then. But Mr.
Hale shows that twenty-five years before that time, in a romance called the "Deeds of Esplandian,"
the name of California was given to an island "on the right hand of the Indies." This romance
was a sequel, or fifth book, to the celebrated romance of "Amadis of Gaul." Such books made
the principal reading of the young blades of that day who could read at all. It seems clear
enough, that Cortés and his friends, coming to the point farthest to the west then known,--which
all of them, from Columbus down, supposed to be in the East Indies,--gave to their discovery
the name, familiar to romantic adventurers, of California, to indicate their belief that it
was on the "right hand of the Indies." Just so Columbus called his discoveries "the Indies,"--just
so was the name "El Dorado" given to regions which it was hoped would prove to be golden. The
romance had said, that in the whole of the romance-island of California there was no metal
but gold. Cortés, who did not find a pennyweight of dust in the real California, still had
no objection to giving so golden a name to his discovery.

Mr. Hale, with that brevity which becomes antiquarians, does not go into any of the details
of the life and adventures of the Queen of California as the romance describes them. We propose,
in this paper, to supply from it this reticency of his essay.

The reader must understand, then, that, in this romance, printed in 1510, sixty years or less
after Constantinople really fell into the hands of the Turks, the author describes a pretended
assault made upon it by the Infidel powers, and the rallying for its rescue of Amadis and Perion
and Lisuarte, and all the princes of chivalry with whom the novel of "Amadis of Gaul" has dealt.
They succeed in driving away the Pagans, "as you shall hear." In the midst of this great crusade,
every word of which, of course, is the most fictitious of fiction, appear the episodes which
describe California and its Queen.

First, of California itself here is the description:--

"Now you are to hear the most extraordinary thing that ever was heard of in any chronicles
or in the memory of man, by which the city would have been lost on the next day, but that where
the danger came, there the safety came also. Know, then, that, on the right hand of the Indies,
there is an island called California, very close to the side of the Terrestrial Paradise,[1]
and it was peopled by black women, without any man among them, for they lived in the fashion
of Amazons. They had many ships with which they sailed out to other countries to obtain booty.

"In this island, called California, there were many griffins, on account of the great ruggedness
of the country, and its infinite host of wild beasts, such as never were seen in any other
part of the world. And when these griffins were yet small, the women went out with traps to
take them. They covered themselves over with very thick hides, and when they had caught the
little griffins, they took them to their caves, and brought them up there. And being themselves
quite a match for the griffins, they fed them with the men whom they took prisoners, and with
the boys to whom they gave birth, and brought them up with such arts that they got much good
from them, and no harm. Every man who landed on the island was immediately devoured by these
griffins; and although they had had enough, none the less would they seize them and carry them
high up in the air, in their flight, and when they were tired of carrying them, would let them
fall anywhere as soon as they died."

These griffins are the Monitors of the story, or, if the reader pleases, the Merrimacs. After
this description, the author goes on to introduce us to our Queen. Observe, O reader, that,
although very black, and very large, she is very beautiful. Why did not Powers carve his statue
of California out of the blackest of Egyptian marbles? Try once more, Mr. Powers! We have found
her now. [Greek: Ehyrhêkamen]!

"Now at the time when those great men of the Pagans sailed with their great fleets, as the
history has told you, there reigned in this island of California a Queen, very large in person,
the most beautiful of all of them, of blooming years, and in her thoughts desirous of achieving
great things, strong of limb and of great courage, more than any of those who had filled her
throne before her. She heard tell that all the greater part of the world was moving in this
onslaught against the Christians. She did not know what Christians were, for she had no knowledge
of any parts of the world excepting those which were close to her. But she desired to see the
world and its various people; and thinking, that, with the great strength of herself and of
her women, she should have the greater part of their plunder, either from her rank or from
her prowess, she began to talk with all of those who were most skilled in war, and told them
that it would be well, if, sailing in their great fleets, they also entered on this expedition,
in which all these great princes and lords were embarking. She animated and excited them, showing
them the great profits and honors which they would gain in this enterprise,--above all, the
great fame which would be theirs in all the world; while, if they stayed in their island, doing
nothing but what their grandmothers did, they were really buried alive,--they were dead while
they lived, passing their days without fame and without glory, as did the very brutes."

Now the people of California were as willing then to embark in distant expeditions of honor
as they are now. And the first battalion that ever sailed from the ports of that country was
thus provided:--

"So much did this mighty Queen, Calafia, say to her people, that she not only moved them to
consent to this enterprise, but they were so eager to extend their fame through other lands
that they begged her to hasten to sea, so that they might earn all these honors, in alliance
with such great men. The Queen, seeing the readiness of her subjects, without any delay gave
order that her great fleet should be provided with food, and with arms all of gold,--more of
everything than was needed. Then she commanded that her largest vessel should be prepared with
gratings of the stoutest timber; and she bade place in it as many as five hundred of these
griffins, of which I tell you, that, from the time they were born, they were trained to feed
on men. And she ordered that the beasts on which she and her people rode should be embarked,
and all the best-armed women and those most skilled in war whom she had in her island. And
then, leaving such force in the island that it should be secure, with the others she went to
sea. And they made such haste that they arrived at the fleets of the Pagans the night after
the battle of which I have told you; so that they were received with great joy, and the fleet
was visited at once by many great lords, and they were welcomed with great acceptance. She
wished to know at once in what condition affairs were, asking many questions, which they answered
fully. Then she said,--

"'You have fought this city with your great forces, and you cannot take it; now, if you are
willing, I wish to try what my forces are worth to-morrow, if you will give orders accordingly.'

"All these great lords said that they would give such commands as she should bid them.

"'Then send word to all your other captains that they shall to-morrow on no account leave their
camps, they nor their people, until I command them; and you shall see a combat more remarkable
than you have ever seen or heard of.'

"Word was sent at once to the great Sultan of Liquia, and the Sultan of Halapa, who had command
of all the men who were there; and they gave these orders to all their people, wondering much
what was the thought of this Queen."

Up to this moment, it may be remarked, these Monitors, as we have called the griffins, had
never been fairly tried in any attack on fortified towns. The Dupont of the fleet, whatever
her name may have been, may well have looked with some curiosity on the issue. The experiment
was not wholly successful, as will be seen.

"When the night had passed and the morning came, the Queen Calafia sallied on shore, she and
her women, armed with that armor of gold, all adorned with the most precious stones,--which
are to be found in the island of California like stones of the field for their abundance. And
they mounted on their fierce beasts, caparisoned as I have told you; and then she ordered that
a door should be opened in the vessel where the griffins were. They, when they saw the field,
rushed forward with great haste, showing great pleasure in flying through the air, and at once
caught sight of the host of men who were close at hand. As they were famished, and knew no
fear, each griffin pounced upon his man, seized him in his claws, carried him high into the
air, and began to devour him. They shot many arrows at them, and gave them many great blows
with lances and with swords. But their feathers were so tight joined and so stout, that no
one could strike through to their flesh." (This is Armstrong versus Monitor.) "For their own
party, this was the most lovely chase and the most agreeable that they had ever seen till then;
and as the Turks saw them flying on high with their enemies, they gave such loud and clear
shouts of joy as pierced the heavens. And it was the most sad and bitter thing for those in
the city, when the father saw the son lifted in the air, and the son his father, and the brother
his brother; so that they all wept and raved, as was sad indeed to see.

"When the griffins had flown through the air for a while, and had dropped their prizes, some
on the earth and some on the sea, they turned, as at first, and, without any fear, seized up
as many more; at which their masters had so much the more joy, and the Christians so much the
more misery. What shall I tell you? The terror was so great among them all, that, while some
hid themselves away under the vaults of the towers for safety, all the others disappeared from
the ramparts, so that there were none left for the defence. Queen Calafia saw this, and, with
a loud voice, she bade the two Sultans, who commanded the troops, send for the ladders, for
the city was taken. At once they all rushed forward, placed the ladders, and mounted upon the
wall. But the griffins, who had already dropped those whom they had seized before, as soon
as they saw the Turks, having no knowledge of them, seized upon them just as they had seized
upon the Christians, and, flying through the air, carried them up also, when, letting them
fall, no one of them escaped death. Thus were exchanged the pleasure and the pain. For those
on the outside now were those who mourned in great sorrow for those who were so handled; and
those who were within, who, seeing their enemies advance on every side, had thought they were
beaten, now took great comfort. So, at this moment, as those on the ramparts stopped, panic-struck,
fearing that they should die as their comrades did, the Christians leaped forth from the vaults
where they were hiding, and quickly slew many of the Turks who were gathered on the walls,
and compelled the rest to leap down, and then sprang back to their hiding-places, as they saw
the griffins return.

"When Queen Calafia saw this, she was very sad, and she said, 'O ye idols in whom I believe
and whom I worship, what is this which has happened as favorably to my enemies as to my friends?
I believed that with your aid and with my strong forces and great munition I should be able
to destroy them. But it has not so proved.' And she gave orders to her women that they should
mount the ladders and struggle to gain the towers and put to the sword all those who took refuge
in them to be secure from the griffins. They obeyed their Queen's commands, dismounted at once,
placing before their breasts such breastplates as no weapon could pierce, and, as I told you,
with the armor all of gold which covered their legs and their arms. Quickly they crossed the
plain, and mounted the ladders lightly, and possessed themselves of the whole circuit of the
walls, and began to fight fiercely with those who had taken refuge in the vaults of the towers.
But they defended themselves bravely, being indeed in quarters well protected, with but narrow
doors. And those of the city, who were in the streets below, shot at the women with arrows
and darts, which pierced them through the sides, so that they received many wounds, because
their golden armor was so weak." (This is Keokuk versus Armstrong.) "And the griffins returned,
flying above them, and would not leave them.

"When Queen Calafia saw this, she cried to the Sultans, 'Make your troops mount, that they
may defend mine against these fowls of mine who have dared attack them.' At once the Sultans
commanded their people to ascend the ladders and gain the circle and the towers, in order that
by night the whole host might join them, and they might gain the city. The soldiers rushed
from their camps, and mounted on the wall where the women were fighting,--but when the griffins
saw them, at once they seized on them as ravenously as if all that day they had not caught
anybody. And when the women threatened them with their knives, they were only the more enraged,
so that, although they took shelter for themselves, the griffins dragged them out by main strength,
lifted them up into the air, and then let them fall,--so that they all died. The fear and panic
of the Pagans were so great, that, much more quickly than they had mounted, did they descend
and take refuge in their camp. The Queen, seeing this rout without remedy, sent at once to
command those who held watch and guard on the griffins, that they should recall them and shut
them up in the vessel. They, then, hearing the Queen's command, mounted on top of the mast,
and called them with loud voices in their language; and they, as if they had been human beings,
all obeyed, and obediently returned into their cages."

The first day's attack of these flying Monitors on the beleaguered city was not, therefore,
a distinguished success. The author derives a lesson from it, which we do not translate, but
recommend to the students of present history. It fills a whole chapter, of which the title
is, "Exhortation addressed by the author to the Christians, setting before their eyes the great
obedience which these griffins, brute animals, rendered to those who had instructed them."

The Sultans may have well doubted whether their new ally was quite what she had claimed to
be. She felt this herself, and said to them,--

"'Since my coming has caused you so much injury, I wish that it may cause you equal pleasure.
Command your people that they shall sally out, and we will go to the city against those knights
who dare to appear before us, and we will let them press on the most severe combat that they
can, and I, with my people, will take the front of the battle.'

"The Sultans gave command at once to all of their soldiers who had armor, that they should
rush forth immediately, and should join in mounting upon the rampart, now that these birds
were encaged again. And they, with the horsemen, followed close upon Queen Calafia, and immediately
the army rushed forth and pressed upon the wall; but not so prosperously as they had expected,
because the people of the town were already there in their harness, and as the Pagans mounted
upon their ladders, the Christians threw them back, whence very many of them were killed and
wounded. Others pressed forward with their iron picks and other tools, and dug fiercely in
the circuit of the wall. These were very much distressed and put in danger by the oil and other
things which were thrown upon them, but not so much but that they succeeded in making many
breaches and openings. But when this came to the ears of the Emperor, who always kept command
of ten thousand horsemen, he commanded all of them to defend these places as well as they could.
So that, to the grief of the Pagans, the people repaired the breaches with many timbers and
stones and piles of earth.

"When the Queen saw this repulse, she rushed with her own attendants with great speed to the
gate Aquileña, which was guarded by Norandel.[2] She herself went in advance of the others,
wholly covered with one of those shields which we have told you they wore, and with her lance
held strongly in her hand. Norandel, when he saw her coming, went forth to meet her, and they
met so vehemently that their lances were broken in pieces, and yet neither of them fell. Norandel
at once put hand upon his sword, and the Queen upon her great knife, of which the blade was
more than a palm broad, and they gave each other great blows. At once they all joined in a
mêlée, one against another, all so confused and with such terrible blows that it was a great
marvel to see it, and if some of the women fell upon the ground, so did some of the cavaliers.
And if this history does not tell in extent which of them fell, and by what blow of each, showing
the great force and courage of the combatants, it is because their number was so great, and
they fell so thick, one upon another, that that great master, Helisabat, who saw and described
the scene, could not determine what in particular passed in these exploits, except in a few
very rare affairs, like this of the Queen and Norandel, who both joined fight as you have heard."

It is to the great master Helisabat that a grateful posterity owes all these narratives and
the uncounted host of romances which grew from them. For, in the first place, he was the skilful
leech who cured all the wounds of all the parties of distinction who were not intended to die;
and in the second place, his notes furnish the mémoires pour servir, of which all the writers
say they availed themselves. The originals, alas! are lost.

"The tumult was so great, that at once the battle between these two was ended, those on each
side coming to the aid of their chief. Then, I tell you, that the things that this Queen did
in arms, like slaying knights, or throwing them wounded from their horses, as she pressed audaciously
forward among her enemies, were such, that it cannot be told nor believed that any woman has
ever shown such prowess.

"And as she dealt with so many noble knights, and no one of them left her without giving her
many and heavy blows, yet she received them all upon her very strong and hard shield.

"When Talanque and Maneli[3] saw what this woman was doing, and the great loss which those
of their own party were receiving from her, they rushed out upon her, and struck her with such
blows as if they considered her possessed. And her sister, who was named Liota, who saw this,
rushed in, like a mad lioness, to her succor, and pressed the knights so mortally, that, to
the loss of their honor, she drew Calafia from their power, and placed her among her own troops
again. And at this time you would have said that the people of the fleets had the advantage,
so that, if it had not been for the mercy of God and the great force of the Count Frandalo
and his companions, the city would have been wholly lost. Many fell dead on both sides, but
many more of the Pagans, because they had the weaker armor.

"Thus," continues the romance, "as you have heard, went on this attack and cruel battle till
nearly night. At this time there was no one of the gates open, excepting that which Norandel
guarded. As to the others, the knights, having been withdrawn from them, ought, of course,
to have bolted them; yet it was very different, as I will tell you. For, as the two Sultans
greatly desired to see these women fight, they had bidden their own people not to enter into
the lists. But when they saw how the day was going, they pressed upon the Christians so fiercely
that gradually they might all enter into the city, and, as it was, more than a hundred men
and women did enter. And God, who guided the Emperor, having directed him to keep the other
gates shut, knowing in what way the battle fared, he pressed them so hardly with his knights,
that, killing some, he drove the others out. Then the Pagans lost many of their people, as
they slew them from the towers,--more than two hundred of the women being slain. And those
within also were not without great loss, since ten of the cruzados were killed, which gave
great grief to their companions. These were Ledaderin de Fajarque, Trion and Imosil de Borgona,
and the two sons of Isanjo. All the people of the city having returned, as I tell you, the
Pagans also retired to their camps, and the Queen Calafia to her fleet, since she had not yet
taken quarters on shore. And the other people entered into their ships; so that there was no
more fighting that day."

I have translated this passage at length, because it gives the reader an idea of the romantic
literature of that day,--literally its only literature, excepting books of theology or of devotion.
Over acres of such reading, served out in large folios,--the yellow-covered novels of their
time,--did the Pizarros and Balboas and Cortéses and other young blades while away the weary
hours of their camp-life. Glad enough was Cortés out of such a tale to get the noble name of
his great discovery.

The romance now proceeds to bring the different princes of chivalry from the West, as it has
brought Calafia from the East. As soon as Amadis arrives at Constantinople, he sends for his
son Esplandian, who was already in alliance with the Emperor of Greece. The Pagan Sultan of
Liquia, and the Queen Calafia, hearing of their arrival, send them the following challenge:--

"Radiaro, Sultan of Liquia, shield and rampart of the Pagan Law, destroyer of Christians, cruel
enemy of the enemies of the Gods, and the very Mighty Queen Calafia, Lady of the great island
of California, famous for its great abundance of gold and precious stones: we have to announce
to you, Amadis of Gaul, King of Great Britain, and you his son, Knight of the Great Serpent,
that we are come into these parts with the intention of destroying this city of Constantinople,
on account of the injury and loss which the much honored King Amato of Persia, our cousin and
friend, has received from this bad Emperor, giving him favor and aid, because a part of his
territory has been taken away from him by fraud. And as our desire in this thing is also to
gain glory and fame in it, so also has fortune treated us favorably in that regard, for we
know the great news, which has gone through all the world, of your great chivalry. We have
agreed, therefore, if it is agreeable to you, or if your might is sufficient for it, to attempt
a battle of our persons against yours in presence of this great company of the nations, the
conquered to submit to the will of the conquerors, or to go to any place where they may order.
And if you refuse this, we shall be able, with much cause, to join all your past glories to
our own, counting them as being gained by us, whence it will clearly be seen in the future
how the victory will be on our side."

This challenge was taken to the Christian camp by a black and beautiful damsel, richly attired,
and was discussed there in council. Amadis put an end to the discussion by saying,--

"'My good lords, as the affairs of men, like those of nations, are in the hands and will of
God, whence no one can escape but as He wills, if we should in any way withdraw from this demand,
it would give great courage to our enemies, and, more than this, great injury to our honor;
especially so in this country, where we are strangers, and no one has seen what our power is,
which in our own land is notorious, so that, while there we may be esteemed for courage, here
we should be judged the greatest of cowards. Thus, placing confidence in the mercy of the Lord,
I determine that the battle shall take place without delay.'

"'If this is your wish,' said King Lisuarte and King Perion, 'so may it be, and may God help
you with His grace!'

"Then the King Amadis said to the damsel,--

"'Friend, tell your lord and the Queen Calafia that we desire the battle with those arms that
are most agreeable to them; that the field shall be this field, divided in the middle,--I giving
my word that for nothing which may happen will we be succored by our own. And let them give
the same order to their own; and if they wish the battle now, now it shall be.'

"The damsel departed with this reply, which she repeated to those two princes. And the Queen
Calafia asked her how the Christians appeared.

"'Very nobly,' replied she, 'for they are all handsome and well armed. Yet I tell you, Queen,
that, among them, this Knight of the Serpent [Esplandian, son of Amadis] is such as neither
the past nor the present, nor, I believe, any who are to come, have ever seen one so handsome
and so elegant, nor will see in the days which are to be. O Queen, what shall I say to you,
but that, if he were of our faith, we might believe that our Gods had made him with their own
hands, with all their power and wisdom, so that he lacks in nothing?'

"The Queen, who heard her, said,--

"'Damsel, my friend, your words are too great.'

"'It is not so,' said she; 'for, excepting the sight of him, there is nothing else which can
give account of his great excellence.'

"'Then I say to you,' said the Queen, 'that I will not fight with such a man until I have first
seen and talked with him; and I make this request to the Sultan, that he will gratify me in
this thing, and arrange that I may see him.'

"The Sultan said,--

"'I will do everything, O Queen, agreeably to your wish.'

"'Then,' said the damsel, 'I will go and obtain that which you ask for, according to your desire.'

"And turning her horse, she approached the camp again, so that all thought that she brought
the agreement for the battle. But as she approached, she called the Kings to the door of the
tent, and said,--

"'King Amadis, the Queen Calafia demands of you that you give order for her safe conduct, that
she may come to-morrow morning and see your son.'

"Amadis began to laugh, and said to the Kings,--

"'How does this demand seem to you?'

"'I say, let her come,' said King Lisuarte; 'it is a very good thing to see the most distinguished
woman in the world.'

"'Take this for your reply,' said Amadis to the damsel; 'and say that she shall be treated
with all truth and honor.'

"The damsel, having received this message, returned with great pleasure to the Queen, and told
her what it was. The Queen said to the Sultan,--

"'Wait and prosper, then, till I have seen him; and charge your people that in the mean time
there may be no outbreak.'

"'Of that,' he said, 'you may be secure.'

"At once she returned to her ships; and she spent the whole night thinking whether she would
go with arms or without them. But at last she determined that it would be more dignified to
go in the dress of a woman. And when the morning came, she rose and directed them to bring
one of her dresses, all of gold, with many precious stones, and a turban wrought with great
art. It had a volume of many folds, in the manner of a toca, and she placed it upon her head
as if it had been a hood [capellina]; it was all of gold, embroidered with stones of great
value. They brought out an animal which she rode, the strangest that ever was seen. It had
ears as large as two shields; a broad forehead which had but one eye, like a mirror; the openings
of its nostrils were very large, but its nose was short and blunt. From its mouth turned up
two tusks, each of them two palms long. Its color was yellow, and it had many violet spots
upon its skin, like an ounce. It was larger than a dromedary, had its feet cleft like those
of an ox, and ran as swiftly as the wind, and skipped over the rocks as lightly, and held itself
erect on any part of them, as do the mountain-goats. Its food was dates and figs and peas,
and nothing else. Its flank and haunches and breast were very beautiful. On this animal, of
which you have thus heard, mounted this beautiful Queen, and there rode behind her two thousand
women of her train, dressed in the very richest clothes. There brought up the rear twenty damsels
clothed in uniform, the trains of whose dresses extended so far, that, falling from each beast,
they dragged four fathoms on the ground.

"With this equipment and ornament the Queen proceeded to the Emperor's camp, where she saw
all the Kings, who had come out upon the plain. They had seated themselves on very rich chairs,
upon cloth of gold, and they themselves were armed, because they had not much confidence in
the promises of the Pagans. So they sallied out to receive her at the door of the tent, where
she was dismounted into the arms of Don Quadragante;[4] and the two Kings, Lisuarte and Perion,
took her by the hands, and placed her between them in a chair. When she was seated, looking
from one side to the other, she saw Esplandian next to King Lisuarte, who held him by the hand;
and from the superiority of his beauty to that of all the others, she knew at once who he was,
and said to herself, 'Oh, my Gods! what is this? I declare to you, I have never seen any one
who can be compared to him, nor shall I ever see any one.' And he turning his beautiful eyes
upon her beautiful face, she perceived that the rays which leaped out from his resplendent
beauty, entering in at her eyes, penetrated to her heart in such a way, that, if she were not
conquered yet by the great force of arms, or by the great attacks of her enemies, she was softened
and broken by that sight and by her amorous passion, as if she had passed between mallets of
iron. And as she saw this, she reflected, that, if she stayed longer, the great fame which
she had acquired as a manly cavalier, by so many dangers and labors, would be greatly hazarded.
She saw that by any delay she should expose herself to the risk of dishonor, by being turned
to that native softness which women of nature consider to be an ornament; and therefore resisting,
with great pain, the feelings which she had subjected to her will, she rose from her seat and
said,--

"'Knight of the Great Serpent, for two excellences which distinguish you above all mortals
I have made inquiry. The first, that of your great beauty, which, if one has not seen, no relation
is enough to tell the greatness of; the other, the valor and force of your brave heart. The
one of these I have seen, which is such as I have never seen nor could hope to see, though
many years of searching should be granted me. The other shall be made manifest on the field,
against this valiant Radiaro, Sultan of Liquia. Mine shall be shown against this mighty king
your father; and if fortune grant that we come alive from this battle, as we hope to come from
other battles, then I will talk with you, before I return to my home, of some things of my
own affairs.'

"Then, turning towards the Kings, she said to them,--

"'Kings, rest in good health. I go hence to that place where you shall see me with very different
dress from this which I now wear, hoping that in that field the King Amadis, who trusts in
fickle fortune that he may never be conquered by any knight, however valiant, nor by any beast,
however terrible, may there be conquered by a woman.'

"Then taking the two older Kings by the hand, she permitted them to help her mount upon her
strange steed."

