THE PRIME MINISTER

by

ANTHONY TROLLOPE

First published in monthly installments in 1875 and 1876 and in book form in 1876

CONTENTS

   VOLUME I

         I. Ferdinand Lopez
        II. Everett Wharton
       III. Mr. Abel Wharton, Q.C.
        IV. Mrs. Roby
         V. "No One Knows Anything About Him"
        VI. An Old Friend Goes to Windsor
       VII. Another Old Friend
      VIII. The Beginning of a New Career
        IX. Mrs. Dick's Dinner Party.--No. I
         X. Mrs. Dick's Dinner Party.--No. II
        XI. Carlton Terrace
       XII. The Gathering of Clouds
      XIII. Mr. Wharton Complains
       XIV. A Lover's Perseverance
        XV. Arthur Fletcher
       XVI. Never Run Away!
      XVII. Good-Bye
     XVIII. The Duke of Omnium Thinks of Himself
       XIX. Vulgarity
        XX. Sir Orlando's Policy
       XXI. The Duchess's New Swan
      XXII. St. James's Park
     XXIII. Surrender
      XXIV. The Marriage
       XXV. The Beginning of the Honeymoon
      XXVI. The End of the Honeymoon
     XXVII. The Duke's Misery
    XXVIII. The Duchess Is Much Troubled
      XXIX. The Two Candidates for Silverbridge
       XXX. "Yes;--a Lie!"
      XXXI. "Yes;--with a Horsewhip in My Hand"
     XXXII. "What Business Is It of Yours?"
    XXXIII. Showing That a Man Should Not Howl
     XXXIV. The Silverbridge Election
      XXXV. Lopez Back in London
     XXXVI. The Jolly Blackbird
    XXXVII. The Horns
   XXXVIII. Sir Orlando Retires
     XXXIX. "Get Round Him"
        XL. "Come and Try It"

   VOLUME II

       XLI. The Value of a Thick Skin
      XLII. Retribution
     XLIII. Kauri Gum
      XLIV. Mr. Wharton Intends to Make a New Will
       XLV. Mrs. Sexty Parker
      XLVI. "He Wants to Get Rich Too Quick"
     XLVII. As for Love!
    XLVIII. "Has He Ill-treated You?"
      XLIX. "Where Is Guatemala?"
         L. Mr. Slide's Revenge
        LI. Coddling the Prime Minister
       LII. "I Can Sleep Here To-night, I Suppose?"
      LIII. Mr. Hartlepod
       LIV. Lizzie
        LV. Mrs. Parker's Sorrows
       LVI. What the Duchess Thought of Her Husband
      LVII. The Explanation
     LVIII. "Quite Settled"
       LIX. "The First and the Last"
        LX. The Tenway Junction
       LXI. The Widow and Her Friends
      LXII. Phineas Finn Has a Book to Read
     LXIII. The Duchess and Her Friend
      LXIV. The New K.G.
       LXV. "There Must Be Time"
      LXVI. The End of the Session
     LXVII. Mrs. Lopez Prepares to Move
    LXVIII. The Prime Minister's Political Creed
      LXIX. Mrs. Parker's Fate
       LXX. At Wharton
      LXXI. The Ladies at Longbarns Doubt
     LXXII. "He Thinks That Our Days Are Numbered"
    LXXIII. Only the Duke of Omnium
     LXXIV. "I Am Disgraced and Shamed"
      LXXV. The Great Wharton Alliance
     LXXVI. Who Will It Be?
    LXXVII. The Duchess in Manchester Square
   LXXVIII. The New Ministry
     LXXIX. The Wharton Wedding
      LXXX. The Last Meeting at Matching

VOLUME I

CHAPTER I

Ferdinand Lopez

It is certainly of service to a man to know who were his grandfathers and who were his grandmothers
if he entertain an ambition to move in the upper circles of society, and also of service to
be able to speak of them as of persons who were themselves somebodies in their time. No doubt
we all entertain great respect for those who by their own energies have raised themselves in
the world; and when we hear that the son of a washerwoman has become Lord Chancellor or Archbishop
of Canterbury we do, theoretically and abstractedly, feel a higher reverence for such self-made
magnate than for one who has been as it were born into forensic or ecclesiastical purple. But
not the less must the offspring of the washerwoman have had very much trouble on the subject
of his birth, unless he has been, when young as well as when old, a very great man indeed.
After the goal has been absolutely reached, and the honour and the titles and the wealth actually
won, a man may talk with some humour, even with some affection, of the maternal tub;--but while
the struggle is going on, with the conviction strong upon the struggler that he cannot be altogether
successful unless he be esteemed a gentleman, not to be ashamed, not to conceal the old family
circumstances, not at any rate to be silent, is difficult. And the difficulty is certainly
not less if fortunate circumstances rather than hard work and intrinsic merit have raised above
his natural place an aspirant to high social position. Can it be expected that such a one when
dining with a duchess shall speak of his father's small shop, or bring into the light of day
his grandfather's cobbler's awl? And yet it is difficult to be altogether silent! It may not
be necessary for any of us to be always talking of our own parentage. We may be generally reticent
as to our uncles and aunts, and may drop even our brothers and sisters in our ordinary conversation.
But if a man never mentions his belongings among those with whom he lives, he becomes mysterious,
and almost open to suspicion. It begins to be known that nobody knows anything of such a man,
and even friends become afraid. It is certainly convenient to be able to allude, if it be but
once in a year, to some blood relation.

Ferdinand Lopez, who in other respects had much in his circumstances on which to congratulate
himself, suffered trouble in his mind respecting his ancestors such as I have endeavoured to
describe. He did not know very much himself, but what little he did know he kept altogether
to himself. He had no father or mother, no uncle, aunt, brother or sister, no cousin even whom
he could mention in a cursory way to his dearest friend. He suffered, no doubt;--but with Spartan
consistency he so hid his trouble from the world that no one knew that he suffered. Those with
whom he lived, and who speculated often and wondered much as to who he was, never dreamed that
the silent man's reticence was a burden to himself. At no special conjuncture of his life,
at no period which could be marked with the finger of the observer, did he glaringly abstain
from any statement which at the moment might be natural. He never hesitated, blushed, or palpably
laboured at concealment; but the fact remained that though a great many men and not a few women
knew Ferdinand Lopez very well, none of them knew whence he had come, or what was his family.

He was a man, however, naturally reticent, who never alluded to his own affairs unless in pursuit
of some object the way to which was clear before his eyes. Silence therefore on a matter which
is common in the mouths of most men was less difficult to him than to another, and the result
less embarrassing. Dear old Jones, who tells his friends at the club of every pound that he
loses or wins at the races, who boasts of Mary's favours and mourns over Lucy's coldness almost
in public, who issues bulletins on the state of his purse, his stomach, his stable, and his
debts, could not with any amount of care keep from us the fact that his father was an attorney's
clerk, and made his first money by discounting small bills. Everybody knows it, and Jones,
who likes popularity, grieves at the unfortunate publicity. But Jones is relieved from a burden
which would have broken his poor shoulders, and which even Ferdinand Lopez, who is a strong
man, often finds it hard to bear without wincing.

