"That is a goodly number," said the Poet. "Thirty-nine, eh? I knew there was a raft of them,
but I had no idea there were as many as that."

"Why don't you go in and do one, Mr. Poet?" suggested the Idiot. "They tell me it's as easy
as rolling off a log. All you've got to do is to forget all your ideas and remember all the
old jokes you ever heard. Slap 'em together around a lot of dances, write two dozen lyrics
about some Googoo Belle, hire a composer, and there you are. Hanged if I haven't thought of
writing one myself."

"I fancy it isn't as easy as it looks," observed the Poet. "It requires just as much thought
to be thoughtless as it does to be thoughtful."

"Nonsense," said the Idiot. "I'd undertake the job cheerfully if some manager would make it
worth my while, and what's more, if I ever got into the swing of the business I'll bet I could
turn out a libretto a day for three days of the week for the next two months."

"If I had your confidence I'd try it," laughed the Poet, "but alas, in making me Nature did
not design a confidence man."

"Nonsense again," said the Idiot. "Any man who can get the editors to print Sonnets to Diana's
Eyebrow, and little lyrics of Madison Square, Longacre Square, Battery Place and Boston Common,
the way you do, has a right to consider himself an adept at bunco. I tell you what I'll do
with you. I'll swap off my confidence for your lyrical facility and see what I can do. Why
can't we collaborate and get up a libretto for next season? They tell me there's large money
in it."

"There certainly is if you catch on," said the Poet. "Vastly more than in any other kind of
writing that I know. I don't know but that I would like to collaborate with you on something
of the sort. What is your idea?"

"Mind's a blank on the subject," sighed the Idiot. "That's the reason I think I can turn the
trick. As I said before, you don't need ideas. Better off without 'em. Just sit down and write."

"But you must have some kind of a story," persisted the Poet.

"Not to begin with," said the Idiot. "Just write your choruses and songs, slap in your jokes,
fasten 'em together, and the thing is done. First act, get your hero and heroine into trouble.
Second act, get 'em out."

"And for the third?" queried the Poet.

"Don't have a third," said the Idiot. "A third is always superfluous--but if you must have
it, make up some kind of a vaudeville show and stick it in between the first and second."

"Tush!" said the Bibliomaniac. "That would make a gay comic opera."

"Of course it would, Mr. Bib," the Idiot agreed. "And that's what we want. If there's anything
in this world that I hate more than another it is a sombre comic opera. I've been to a lot
of 'em, and I give you my word of honor that next to a funeral a comic opera that lacks gaiety
is one of the most depressing functions known to modern science. Some of 'em are enough to
make an undertaker weep with jealous rage. I went to one of 'em last week called 'The Skylark'
with an old chum of mine, who is a surgeon. You can imagine what sort of a thing it was when
I tell you that after the first act he suggested we leave the theater and come back here and
have some fun cutting my leg off. He vowed that if he ever went to another opera by the same
people he'd take ether beforehand."

"I shouldn't think that would be necessary," sneered the Bibliomaniac. "If it was as bad as
all that why didn't it put you to sleep?"

"It did," said the Idiot. "But the music kept waking us up again. There was no escape from
it except that of actual physical flight."

"Well--about this collaboration of ours," suggested the Poet. "What do you think we should
do first?"

"Write an opening chorus, of course," said the Idiot. "What did you suppose? A finale? Something
like this:

    "If you want to know who we are,
    Just ask the Evening Star,
        As he smiles on high
        In the deep blue sky,
    With his tralala-la-la-la.
    We are maidens sweet
    With tripping feet,
    And the Googoo eyes
    Of the Skippity-hi's,
    And the smile of the fair Gazoo;
    And you'll find our names
    'Mongst the wondrous dames
    Of the Whos Who-hoo-hoo-hoo.

"Get that sung with spirit by sixty-five ladies with blonde wigs and gold slippers, otherwise
dressed up in the uniform of a troop of Russian Cavalry, and you've got your venture launched."

"Where can you find people like that?" asked the Bibliomaniac.

"New York's full of 'em," replied the Idiot.

"I don't mean the people to act that sort of thing--but where would you lay your scene?" explained
the Bibliomaniac.

"Oh, any old place in the Pacific Ocean," said the Idiot. "Make your own geography--everybody
else does. There's a million islands out there of one kind or another, and as defenseless as
a two weeks' old infant. If you want a real one, fish it out and fire ahead. If you don't,
make one up for yourself and call it 'The Isle of Piccolo,' or something of that sort. After
you've got your chorus going, introduce your villain, who should be a man with a deep bass
voice and a piratical past. He's the chap who rules the roost and is going to marry the heroine
to-morrow. That will make a bully song:

            "I'm a pirate bold
            With a heart so cold
    That it turns the biggest joys to solemn sorrow;
            And the hero-ine,
            With her eyes so fine,
    I am going to-marry--to-morrow.

            CHORUS:

    "He is go-ing to-marry--to-morrow
    The maid with a heart full of sorrow;
          For her we are sorry
          For she weds to-morry--
    She is go-ing to-marry--to-morrow.

"Gee!" added the Idiot enthusiastically. "Can't you almost hear that already?"

"I am sorry to say," said Mr. Brief, "that I can. You ought to call your heroine Drivelina."

"Splendid," cried the Idiot. "Drivelina goes. Well, then on comes Drivelina and this beast
of a Pirate grabs her by the hand and makes love to her as if he thought wooing was a game
of snap the whip. She sings a soprano solo of protest and the Pirate summons his hirelings
to cast Drivelina into a Donjuan cell when, boom! an American warship appears on the horizon.
The crew under the leadership of a man with a squeaky tenor voice named Lieutenant Somebody
or other comes ashore, puts Drivelina under the protection of the American flag while his crew
sings the following:

                "We are Jackies, Jackies, Jackies,
                And we smoke the best tobaccys
    You can find from Zanzibar to Honeyloo.
                And we fight for Uncle Sammy,
                Yes indeed we do, for damme
    You can bet your life that that's the thing to do--doodle-do!
    You can bet your life that that's the thing to
        doodle--doodle--doodle--doodle-do.

"Eh! What?" demanded the Idiot.

"Well--what yourself?" asked the Lawyer. "This is your job. What next?"

"Well--the Pirate gets lively, tries to assassinate the Lieutenant, who kills half the natives
with his sword and is about to slay the Pirate when he discovers that he is his long lost father,"
said the Idiot. "The heroine then sings a pathetic love song about her Baboon Baby, in a green
light to the accompaniment of a lot of pink satin monkeys banging cocoa-nut shells together.
This drowsy lullaby puts the Lieutenant and his forces to sleep and the curtain falls on their
capture by the Pirate and his followers, with the chorus singing:

    "Hooray for the Pirate bold,
    With his pockets full of gold,
    He's going to marry to-morrow.
          To-morrow he'll marry,
          Yes, by the Lord Harry,
    He's go-ing--to-marry--to-mor-row!
    And that's a thing to doodle-doodle-doo.

"There," said the Idiot, after a pause. "How is that for a first act?"

"It's about as lucid as most of them," said the Poet, "but after all you have got a story there,
and you said you didn't need one."

"I said you didn't need one to start with," corrected the Idiot. "And I've proved it. I didn't
have that story in mind when I started. That's where the easiness of the thing comes in. Why,
I didn't even have to think of a name for the heroine. The inspiration for that popped right
out of Mr. Brief's mouth as smoothly as though the name Drivelina had been written on his heart
for centuries. Then the title--Isle of Piccolo--that's a dandy and I give you my word of honor
I'd never even thought of a title for the opera until that revealed itself like a flash from
the blue; and as for the coon song, 'My Baboon Baby,' there's a chance there for a Zanzibar
act that will simply make Richard Wagner and Reginald De Koven writhe with jealousy. Can't
you imagine the lilt of it:

          "My Bab-boon--ba-habee,
          My Bab-boon--ba-habee--
          I love you dee-her-lee
          Yes dee-hee-hee-er-lee.
          My Baboon--ba-ha-bee,
          My Baboon--ba-ha-bee,
    My baboon--Ba-hay-hay-hay-hay-hay-hay-bee-bee.

"And all those pink satin monkeys bumping their cocoanut shells together in the green moonlight--"

"Well, after the first act, what?" asked the Bibliomaniac.

"The usual intermission," said the Idiot. "You don't have to write that. The audience generally
knows what to do."

"But your second act?" asked the Poet.

"Oh, come off," said the Idiot rising. "We were to do this thing in collaboration. So far I've
done the whole blooming business. I'll leave the second act to you. When you collaborate, Mr.
Poet, you've got to do a little collabbing on your own account. What did you think you were
to do--collect the royalties?"

"I'm told," said the Lawyer, "that that is sometimes the hardest thing to do in a comic opera."

"Well, I'll be self-sacrificing," said the Idiot, "and bear my full share of it."

"It seems to me," said the Bibliomaniac, "that that opera produced in the right place might
stand a chance of a run."

"Thank you," said the Idiot. "After all, Mr. Bib, you are a man of some penetration. How long
a run?"

"One consecutive night," said the Bibliomaniac.

"Ah--and where?" demanded the Idiot with a smile.

"At Bloomingdale," answered the Bibliomaniac severely.

"That's a very good idea," said the Idiot. "When you go back there, Mr. Bib, I wish you'd suggest
it to the Superintendent."

WAMSLEY'S AUTOMATIC PASTOR

BY FRANK CRANE

"Yes, sir," said the short, chunky man, as he leaned back against the gorgeous upholstery of
his seat in the smoking compartment of the sleeping-car; "yes, sir, I knew you was a preacher
the minute I laid eyes on you. You don't wear your collar buttoned behind, nor a black thingumbob
over your shirt front, nor Presbyterian whiskers, nor a little gold cross on a black string
watch chain; them's the usual marks, I know, and you hain't got any of 'em. But I knew you
just the same. You can't fool J.P. Wamsley. You see, there's a peculiar air about a man that's
accustomed to handle any particular line of goods. You can tell 'em all, if you'll just notice,--any
of 'em,--white-goods counter, lawyer, doctor, travelin' man, politician, railroad,--every one
of 'em's got his sign out, and it don't take a Sherlock Holmes to read it, neither. It's the
same way with them gospel goods. You'll excuse me, but when I saw you come in here and light
a cigar, with an air of I-will-now-give-you-a-correct-imitation-of-a-human-being, I says to
myself, 'There's one of my gospel friends.' Murder will out, as the feller says.

"Experience, did you say? I must have had considerable experience? Well, I guess yes! Didn't
you never hear of my invention, Wamsley's Automatic Pastor, Self-feedin' Preacher and Lightning
Caller? Say, that was the hottest scheme ever. I'll tell you about it.

"You see, it's this way. I'm not a church member myself--believe in it, you know, and all that
sort of thing,--I'm for religion strong, and when it comes to payin' I'm right there with the
goods. My wife is a member, and a good one; in fact, she's so blame good that we average up
pretty well.

"Well, one day they elected me to the board of trustees at the church; because I was the heaviest
payer, I suppose. I kicked some, not bein' anxious to pose as a pious individual, owin' to
certain brethren in the town who had a little confidential information on J.P. and might be
inclined to get funny. But they insisted, allowin' that me bein' the most prominent and successful
merchant in the town, and similar rot, I ought to line up and help out the cause, and so on;
so finally I give in.

"I went to two or three of their meetin's--and say, honest, they were the fiercest things ever."

The minister smiled knowingly.

"You're on, I see. Ain't those official meetin's of a church the limit? Gee! Once I went--a
cold winter night--waded through snow knee-deep to a giraffe--and sat there two hours, while
they discussed whether they'd fix the pastor's back fence or not--price six dollars! I didn't
say anything, bein' sort o' new, you know, but I made up my mind that next time I'd turn loose
on 'em, if it was the last thing I did.

"I says to my wife when I got home, 'Em,' says I, 'if gittin' religion gives a man softenin'
of the brain, like I see it workin' on them men there to-night, I'm afraid I ain't on prayin'
ground and intercedin' terms, as the feller says. The men in that bunch to-night was worth
over eight hundred thousand dollars, and they took eleven dollars and a half's worth o' my
time chewin' the rag over fixin' the parson's fence. I'm goin' to bed,' I says, 'and if I shouldn't
wake up in the mornin', if you should miss petty in the mornin', you may know his vital powers
was exhausted by the hilarious proceedin's of this evenin'.'

"But I must get along to my story, about my automatic pastor. One day the preacher resigned,--life
probably hectored out of him by a lot o' cheap skates whose notion of holdin' office in church
consisted in cuttin' down expenses and findin' fault with the preacher because he didn't draw
in sinners enough to fill the pews and pay their bills for 'em.

"When it come to selectin' a committee to get a new pastor, I butted right in. I had an idea,
so--me to the front, leadin' trumps and bangin' my cards down hard on the table. Excuse my
gay and festive reference to playin'-cards, but what I mean is, that I thought the fullness
of time had arrived and was a-hollerin' for J.P. Wamsley.

"Well, sir, it was right then and there I invented my automatic pastor, continuous revolving
hand-shaker and circular jolly-hander.

"I brung it before the official brethren one night and explained its modus operandi. I had
a wax figger made by the same firm that supplies me with the manikins for my show-windows.
And it was a peach, if I do say it myself. Tall, handsome figger, benevolent face, elegant
smile that won't come off, as the feller says, Chauncey Depew spinnage in front of each ear.
It was a sure lu-lu.

"'Now,' I says to 'em, 'gentlemen, speakin' o' pastors, I got one here I want to recommend.
It has one advantage anyhow; it won't cost you a cent. I'll make you a present of it, and also
chip in, as heretofore, toward operatin' expenses.' That caught old Jake Hicks--worth a hundred
thousand dollars, and stingier 'n all git-out. He leaned over and listened, same as if he was
takin' 'em right off the bat. He's a retired farmer. If you'll find me a closer boy than a
retired farmer moved to town, you can have the best plug hat in my store.

"'You observe,' I says, 'that he has the leadin' qualifications of all and comes a heap cheaper
than most. He is swivel mounted; that is, the torso, so to speak, is pinioned onto the legs,
so that the upper part of the body can revolve. This enables him to rotate freely without bustin'
his pants, the vest bein' unconnected with the trousers.

"'Now, you stand this here, whom we will call John Henry, at the door of the church as the
congregation enters, havin' previously wound him up, and there he stays, turning around and
givin' the glad hand and cheery smile, and so doth his unchangin' power display as the unwearied
sun from day to day, as the feller says. Nobody neglected, all pleased. You remember the last
pastor wasn't sociable enough, and there was considerable complaint because he didn't hike
right down after the benediction and jolly the flock as they passed out. We'll have a wire
run the length of the meetin' house, with a gentle slant from the pulpit to the front door,
and as soon as meetin's over, up goes John Henry and slides down to the front exit, and there
he stands, gyratin' and handin' out pleasant greeting to all,--merry Christmas and happy New
Year to beat the band.

"'Now as for preachin',' I continued, 'you see all you have to do is to raise up the coat-tails
and insert a record on the phonograph concealed here in the back of the chest, with a speakin'
tube runnin' up to the mouth. John Henry bein' a regular minister, he can get the Homiletic
Review at a dollar and a half a year; we can subscribe for that, get the up-to-datest sermons
by the most distinguished divines, get some gent that's afflicted with elocution to say 'em
into a record, and on Sunday our friend and pastor here will reel 'em off fine. You press the
button--he does the rest, as the feller says.'

"'How about callin' on the members?' inquires Andy Robinson.

"'Easy,' says I. 'Hire a buggy of Brother Jinks here, who keeps a livery stable, at one dollar
per P.M. Get a nigger to chauffeur the pastor at fifty cents per same. There you are. Let the
boy be provided with an assortment of records to suit the people--pleasant and sad, consolatory
and gay, encouragin' or reprovin', and so forth. The coon drives up, puts in a cartridge, sets
the pastor in the door, and when the family gets through with him they sets him out again.

"'There are, say about three hundred callin' days in the year. He can easy make fifteen calls
a day on an average--equals four thousand five hundred calls a year, at $450. Of course, there's
the records, but they won't cost over $50 at the outside--you can shave 'em off and use 'em
over again, you know.'

"'But there's the personality of the pastor,' somebody speaks up. 'It's that which attracts
folks and fills the pews.'

"'Personality shucks!' says I. 'Haven't we had personality enough? For every man it attracts
it repels two. Your last preacher was one of the best fellers that ever struck this town. He
was a plum brick, and had lots o' horse sense, to boot. He could preach, too, like a house
afire. But you kicked him out because he wasn't sociable enough. You're askin' an impossibility.
No man can be a student and get up the rattlin' sermons he did, and put in his time trottin'
around callin' on the sisters.

"'Now, let's apply business sense to this problem. That's the way I run my store. Find out
what the people want and give it to 'em, is my motto. Now, people ain't comin' to church unless
there's somethin' to draw 'em. We've tried preachin', and it won't draw. They say they want
sociability, so let's give it to 'em strong. They want attention paid to 'em. You turn my friend
here loose in the community, and he'll make each and every man, woman and child think they're
it in less'n a month. If anybody gets disgruntled, you sic John Henry here on 'em, and you'll
have 'em come right back a-runnin', and payin' their pew rent in advance.

"'Then,' I continued, 'that ain't all. There's another idea I propose, to go along with the
pastor, as a sort of side line. That's tradin' stamps. Simple, ain't it? Wonder why you never
thought of it yourselves, don't you? That's the way with all bright ideas. People drink soda
water all their lives, and along comes a genius and hears the fizz, and goes and invents a
Westinghouse brake. Same as Newton and the apple, and Columbus and the egg.

"'All you have to do is to give tradin' stamps for attendance, and your church fills right
up, and John Henry keeps 'em happy. Stamps can be redeemed at any store. So many stamps gets,
say a parlor lamp or a masterpiece of Italian art in a gilt frame; so many more draws a steam
cooker or an oil stove; so many more and you have a bicycle or a hair mattress or a what-not;
and so on up to where a hat full of 'em gets an automobile.

"'I tell you when a family has a what-not in their eye they ain't goin' to let a little rain
keep 'em home from church. If they're all really too sick to go they'll hire a substitute.
And I opine these here stamps will have a powerful alleviatin' effect on Sunday-sickness.

"'And then,' I went on, waxin' eloquent, and leanin' the pastor against the wall, so I could
put one hand in my coat and gesture with the other and make it more impressive,--'and then,'
I says, 'just think of them other churches. We won't do a thing to 'em. That Baptist preacher
thinks he's a wizz because he makes six hundred calls a year. You just wait till the nigger
gets to haulin' John Henry here around town and loadin' him up with rapid-fire conversations.
That Baptist gent will look like thirty cents, that's what he'll look like. He'll think he's
Rojessvinsky and the Japanese fleet's after him. And the Campbellites think they done it when
they got their new pastor, with a voice like a Bull o' Bashan comin' down hill. Just wait till
we load a few of them extra-sized records with megaphone attachment into our pastor, and gear
him up to two hundred and fifty words a minute, and then where, oh, where is Mister Campbellite,
as the feller says.

"'Besides, brethren, this pastor, havin' no family, won't need his back fence fixed; in fact,
he won't need the parsonage; we can rent it, and the proceeds will go toward operatin' expenses.

"'What we need to do,' I says in conclusion, 'is to get in line, get up to date, give the people
what they want. We have no way of judgin' the future but by the past, as the feller says. We
know they ain't no human bein' can measure up to our requirements, so let's take a fall out
of science, and have enterprise and business sense.'"

J.P. Wamsley reached for a match.

"Did they accept your offer?" asked his companion. "I am anxious to know how your plan worked.
It has many points in its favor, I confess."

"No," replied J.P. Wamsley, as he meditatively puffed his cigar and seemed to be lovingly reviewing
the past. "No, they didn't. I'm kind o' sorry, too. I'd like to have seen the thing tried myself.
But," he added, with a slow and solemn wink, "they passed a unanimous resolution callin' back
the old pastor at an increased salary."

"I should say, then, that your invention was a success."

"Well, I didn't lose out on it, anyhow. I've got John Henry rigged up with a new bunch of whiskers,
and posin' in my show-window as Dewitt, signin' the peace treaty, in an elegant suit of all-wool
at $11.50."

THE BOHEMIANS OF BOSTON

BY GELETT BURGESS

    The "Orchids" were as tough a crowd
    As Boston anywhere allowed;
    It was a club of wicked men--
    The oldest, twelve, the youngest, ten;
    They drank their soda colored green,
    They talked of "Art," and "Philistine,"
    They wore buff "wescoats," and their hair
    It used to make the waiters stare!
    They were so shockingly behaved
    And Boston thought them so depraved,
    Policemen, stationed at the door,
    Would raid them every hour or more!
    They used to smoke (!) and laugh out loud (!)
    They were a very devilish crowd!
    They formed a Cult, far subtler, brainier,
    Than ordinary Anglomania,
    For all as Jacobites were reckoned,
    And gaily toasted Charles the Second!
    (What would the Bonnie Charlie say,
    If he could see that crowd to-day?)
    Fitz-Willieboy McFlubadub
    Was Regent of the Orchids' Club;
    A wild Bohemian was he,
    And spent his money fast and free.
    He thought no more of spending dimes
    On some debauch of pickled limes,
    Than you would think of spending nickels
    To buy a pint of German pickles!
    The Boston maiden passed him by
    With sidelong glances of her eye,
    She dared not speak (he was so wild),
    Yet worshipped this Lotharian child.
    Fitz-Willieboy was so blase,
    He burned a Transcript up one day!
    The Orchids fashioned all their style
    On Flubadub's infernal guile.
    That awful Boston oath was his--
    He used to 'jaculate, "Gee Whiz!"
    He showed them that immoral haunt,
    The dirty Chinese Restaurant;
    And there they'd find him, even when
    It got to be as late as ten!
    He ate chopped suey (with a fork)
    You should have heard the villain talk
    Of one reporter that he knew (!)
    An artist, and an actor, too!!!
    The Orchids went from bad to worse,
    Made epigrams--attempted verse!
    Boston was horrified and shocked
    To hear the way those Orchids mocked;
    For they made fun of Boston ways,
    And called good men Provincial Jays!
    The end must come to such a story,
    Gone is the wicked Orchids' glory;
    The room was raided by police,
    One night, for breaches of the Peace
    (There had been laughter, long and loud,
    In Boston this is not allowed),
    And there, the sergeant of the squad
    Found awful evidence--my God!--
    Fitz-Willieboy McFlubadub,
    The Regent of the Orchids' Club,
    Had written on the window-sill,
    This shocking outrage--"Beacon H--ll!"

A LETTER FROM HOME[4]

From the Princess Boo-Lally, at Gumbo Goo, South Sea Islands, to Her Brother, Prince Umbobo,
a Sophomore at Yale.

BY WALLACE IRWIN

    "It is spring, my dear Umbobo,
      On the isle of Gumbo Goo,
    And your father, King Korobo,
      And your mother long for you.

    "We had missionaries Monday,
      Much the finest of the year--
    Our old cook came back last Sunday,
      And the stews she makes are dear.

    "I've the loveliest string of knuckles
      Which dear Father gave to me,
    And a pair of shin-bone buckles
      Which I so wish you could see.

    "You remember Mr. Booloo?
      He is coming over soon
    With some friends from Unatulu--
      We all hope they'll call at noon.

    "Mr. Booloo's rather slender,
      But we'll fix him up with sage,
    And I think he'll be quite tender
      For a fellow of his age.

    "Genevieve O-loola's marriage
      Was arranged so very queer--
    Have you read 'The Bishop's Carriage'?
      Don't you think it's just too dear?

    "I am hoping next vacation
      I may visit you a while.
    In this out-of-way location
      It's so hard to know the style.

    "Will you try and match the sample
      I enclose--be sure it's green.
    Get three yards--that will be ample.
      Velvet, mind, not velveteen.

    "Gentle mother worries badly,
      And she thinks it is a shame
    That a man like Dr. Hadley
      Lets you play that football game.

    "For the way they hurt each other
      Seems so barbarously rude--
    No, you've not been raised, dear brother,
      To do anything so crude.

    "And those horrid meals at college--
      Not what you're accustomed to.
    It is hard, this quest for knowledge,
      But be brave.
          "Your sister, Boo."

    "P.S.--
    "If it's not too great a bother
      And a mental overtax,
    Would you send your poor old father,
      C.O.D., a battle-axe?"

    Thet night, I tell ye, she looked some!
      "Wal ... no ... I come dasignin'--"

    Says he, "I'd better call agin";
      Says she, "Think likely, Mister";
    Thet last word pricked him like a pin,
      An' ... Wal, he up an' kist her.

UNCLE SIMON AND UNCLE JIM

BY ARTEMUS WARD

    Uncle Simon he
    Clumb up a tree
    To see
    What he could see,
    When presentlee
    Uncle Jim
    Clumb up beside of him
    And squatted down by he.

THE LITTLE MOCK-MAN

BY JAMES WHITCOMB RILEY

    The Little Mock-man on the Stairs--
    He mocks the lady's horse 'at rares
      At bi-sickles an' things,--
    He mocks the mens 'at rides 'em, too;
    An' mocks the Movers, drivin' through,
    An' hollers "Here's the way you do
      With them-air hitchin'-strings!"
        "Ho! ho!" he'll say,
         Ole Settlers' Day,
      When they're all jogglin' by,--
        "You look like this,"
         He'll say, an' twis'
      His mouth an' squint his eye
    An' 'tend like he wuz beat the bass
      Drum at both ends--an' toots and blares
    Ole dinner-horn an' puffs his face--
      The Little Mock-man on the Stairs!

    The Little Mock-man on the Stairs
    Mocks all the peoples all he cares
      'At passes up an' down!
    He mocks the chickens round the door,
    An' mocks the girl 'at scrubs the floor,
    An' mocks the rich, an' mocks the pore,
      An' ever'thing in town!
        "Ho! ho!" says he,
         To you er me;
      An' ef we turns an' looks,
        He's all cross-eyed
        An' mouth all wide
      Like Giunts is, in books.--
    "Ho! ho!" he yells, "look here at me,"
      An' rolls his fat eyes roun' an' glares,--
    "You look like this!" he says, says he--
      The Little Mock-man on the Stairs!

    The Little Mock--
      The Little Mock--
        The Little Mock-man on the Stairs,
    He mocks the music-box an' clock,
        An' roller-sofy an' the chairs;
      He mocks his Pa an' spec's he wears;
      He mocks the man 'at picks the pears
      An' plums an' peaches on the shares;
      He mocks the monkeys an' the bears
      On picture-bills, an' rips an' tears
      'Em down,--an' mocks ist all he cares,
      An' EVER'body EVER'wheres!

MAMMY'S LULLABY

BY STRICKLAND W. GILLILAN

    Sleep, mah li'l pigeon, don' yo' heah yo' mammy coo?
      Sunset still a-shinin' in de wes';
    Sky am full o' windehs an' de stahs am peepin' froo--
      Eb'ryt'ing but mammy's lamb at res'.
        Swing 'im to'ds de Eas'lan',
        Swing 'im to'ds de Souf--
      See dat dove a-comin' wif a olive in 'is mouf!

    Cricket fiddleh scrapin' off de rozzum f'um 'is bow,
      Whippo'will a-mo'nin' on a lawg;
    Moon ez pale ez hit kin be a-risin' mighty slow--
      Stahtled at de bahkin' ob de dawg;
        Swing de baby Eas'way,
        Swing de baby Wes',
      Swing 'im to'ds de Souflan' whah de melon grow de bes'!

    Eyelids des a-droopin' li'l loweh all de w'ile,
      Undeh lip a-saggin' des a mite;
    Li'l baby toofies showin' so't o' lak a smile,
      Whiteh dan de snow, or des ez white.
        Swing 'im to'ds de No'flan',
        Swing 'im to'ds de Eas'--
      Woolly cloud a-comin' fo' t' wrap 'im in 'is fleece!
        Angel ban' a-playin'--
        Whut dat music sayin'?

MY SWEETHEART

BY SAMUEL MINTURN PECK

    Her height? Perhaps you'd deem her tall--
      To be exact, just five feet seven.
    Her arching feet are not too small;
      Her gleaming eyes are bits of heaven.
    Slim are her hands, yet not too wee--
      I could not fancy useless fingers,
    Her hands are all that hands should be,
      And own a touch whose memory lingers.

    The hue that lights her oval cheeks
      Recalls the pink that tints a cherry;
    Upon her chin a dimple speaks,
      A disposition blithe and merry.
    Her laughter ripples like a brook;
      Its sound a heart of stone would soften.
    Though sweetness shines in every look,
      Her laugh is never loud, nor often.

    Though golden locks have won renown
      With bards, I never heed their raving;
    The girl I love hath locks of brown,
      Not tightly curled, but gently waving.
    Her mouth?--Perhaps you'd term it large--
      Is firmly molded, full and curving;
    Her quiet lips are Cupid's charge,
      But in the cause of truth unswerving.

    Though little of her neck is seen,
      That little is both smooth and sightly;
    And fair as marble is its sheen
      Above her bodice gleaming whitely.
    Her nose is just the proper size,
      Without a trace of upward turning.
    Her shell-like ears are wee and wise,
      The tongue of scandal ever spurning.

    In mirth and woe her voice is low,
      Her calm demeanor never fluttered;
    Her every accent seems to go
      Straight to one's heart as soon as uttered.
    She ne'er coquets as others do;
      Her tender heart would never let her.
    Where does she dwell? I would I knew;
      As yet, alas! I've never met her.

THE AUTO RUBAIYAT[5]

BY REGINALD WRIGHT KAUFFMAN

    Move!--Or the Devil Red who puts to flight
    Whate'er's before him, to the Left or Right,
      Will toss you high as Heaven when he strikes
    Your poor clay carcass with his master-might!

    As the Cock crows the "Fiends" who stand before
    The Starting-Point, amid the Stream's wild roar,
      Shake hands, make wills, and duly are confess'd,
    Lest, once departed, they return no more.

    For whether towards Madrid or Washington,
    Whether by steam or gasoline they run,
      Pedestrians keep getting in their way,
    Chauffeurs are being slaughtered one by one.

    A new Fool's every minute born, you say;
    Yes, but where speeds the Fool of Yesterday?
      Beneath the Road he sleeps, the Autos roar
    Close o'er his head, but can not thrill his clay.

    Well, let him sleep! For what have ye to do
    With him, who this or Anything pursue
      So it take swiftness?--Let the Children scream,
    Or Constables shout after--heed not you.

    Oh ye who anti-auto laws would make
    And still insist upon the silly brake,
      Get in, and try a spin, and then you'll see
    How many fines you will impose--and take!

    Ah, my Beloved, fill the Tank that cheers,
    Nor heed the Law's rebuke, the Rabble's tears,
      Quick! For To-morrow you and I may be
    Ourselves with Yesterday's Sev'n Thousand Years.

    A pair of Goggles and a Cap, I trow,
    A Stench, a Roar, and my Machine and Thou
      Beside me, going ninety miles an hour--
    Oh, Turnpike-road were Paradise enow!

    Ah, Love, could we successfully conspire
    Against this sorry World for our desire,
      Would we not shatter it to bits without
    So much of damage as a busted tire?

    With Gasoline my fading Life provide,
    And wash my Body in it when I've died,
      And lay me, shrouded in my Cap and Cape,
    By some not Autoless new Speedway's side.

    Yon "Devil" that goes pricking o'er the Plain,
    How oft hereafter will she go again!
      How oft hereafter will she seek her prey?
    But seek, alas, for one of us in vain!

    And when, like her, O Love, you come to take
    Your morning spin for Appetite's sweet sake,
      And pass the spot where I lay buried, then,
    In memory of me, fling wide the Brake!

[Footnote 5: Lippincott's Magazine.]

THE TWO LADIES

BY CAROLYN WELLS

Once on a Time there were Two Ladies at a Shop where Gorgeous and Expensive Silks were temptingly
displayed. "Only Six Dollars a Yard, Madam," said the Shopman to One of the Ladies, as he held
up the Lustrous Breadths in those Tempting Fan-shaped Folds peculiar to Shopmen.

The Lady hesitated, and looked Dubiously at the Silk, for she knew it was Beyond her Means.

The Shopman Continued: "Very Cheap at the Price, and I have Only this One Dress Pattern remaining.
You will Take it? Yes? Certainly, I will Send it at Once."

The Lady went away filled with Deep Regret because she had squandered her Money so Foolishly,
and wished she had been Firm in her Refusal to buy the Goods.

The Other Lady saw a similar Silk. She felt it Between her Fingers, Measured its Width with
her Eye, and then said Impulsively, "Oh, That is just What I Want. I will Take Twenty Yards."

No Sooner was the Silk cut off than the Lady felt Sharp Twinges of Remorse, for she knew she
must Pay for it with the Money she had Saved Up for a new Dining-Room Carpet.

MORALS:

This Fable teaches that the Woman Who Deliberates Is Lost, and That We Should Think Twice Before
We Speak Once. Créme de la Créme!

THE TWO YOUNG MEN

BY CAROLYN WELLS

Once on a Time there were Two Young Men of Promising Capabilities.

One pursued no Especial Branch of Education, but Contented himself with a Smattering of many
different Arts and Sciences, exhibiting a Moderate Proficiency in Each. When he Came to Make
a Choice of some means of Earning a Livelihood, he found he was Unsuccessful, for he had no
Specialty, and Every Employer seemed to Require an Expert in his Line.

The Other, from his Earliest Youth, bent all his Energies toward Learning to play the Piano.
He studied at Home and Abroad with Greatest Masters, and he Achieved Wonderful Success. But
as he was about to Begin his Triumphant and Profitable Career, he had the Misfortune to lose
both Thumbs in a Railway Accident.

Thus he was Deprived of his Intended Means of Earning a Living, and as he had no other Accomplishment
he was Forced to Subsist on Charity.

MORALS:

This Fable teaches that a Jack of all Trades is Master of None, and that It Is Not Well to
put All our Eggs in One Basket.

THE TWO HOUSEWIVES

BY CAROLYN WELLS

Once on a Time there were Two Housewives who must Needs go to Market to purchase the Day's
Supplies.

One of Them, who was of a Dilatory Nature, said:

"I will not Hurry Myself, for I Doubt Not the Market contains Plenty for all who come."

She therefore Sauntered Forth at her Leisure, and on reaching the Market she found to her Dismay
that the Choicest Cuts and the Finest Produce had All been Sold, and there remained for her
only the Inferior Meats and Some Withered Vegetables.

The Other, who was One of the Hustling, Wide-awake Sort, said:

"I will Bestir myself Betimes and Hasten to Market that I may Take my Pick ere my Neighbors
appear on the Scene."

She did so, and when she Reached the Market she Discovered that the Fresh Produce had not yet
Arrived, and she must Content herself with the Remnants of Yesterday's Stock.

MORALS:

This Fable teaches that The Early Bird Gets the Worm, and that There Are Always as Good Fish
In the Sea as Ever were Caught.

IN PHILISTIA

BY BLISS CARMAN

    Of all the places on the map,
      Some queer and others queerer,
    Arcadia is dear to me,
      Philistia is dearer.

    There dwell the few who never knew
      The pangs of heavenly hunger
    As fresh and fair and fond and frail
      As when the world was younger.

    If there is any sweeter sound
      Than bobolinks or thrushes,
    It is the frou-frou of their silks--
      The roll of their barouches.

    I love them even when they're good,
      As well as when they're sinners--
    When they are sad and worldly wise
      And when they are beginners.

    (I say I do; of course the fact,
      For better or for worse, is,
    My unerratic life denies
      My too erotic verses.)

    I dote upon their waywardness,
      Their foibles and their follies.
    If there's a madder pate than Di's,
      Perhaps it may be Dolly's.

    They have no "problems" to discuss,
      No "theories" to discover;
    They are not "new"; and I--I am
      Their very grateful lover.

