The same evening, Tierney wrote to Dot Blake, and said in a postscript, "I know you care for
Ballindine; so do I, but I don't write to him. If he really wants to secure his turtle-dove,
he should see that she doesn't get bagged in his absence. Kilcullen is here, and I tell you
he's a keen sportsman. They say it's quite up with him in London, and I should be sorry she
were sacrificed: she seems a nice girl."

Lord Kilcullen had ample opportunities of forwarding his intimacy with Fanny, and he did not
neglect them. To give him his due, he played his cards as well as his father could wish him.
He first of all overcame the dislike with which she was prepared to regard him; he then interested
her about himself; and, before he had been a week at Grey Abbey, she felt that she had a sort
of cousinly affection for him. He got her to talk with a degree of interest about himself;
and when he could do that, there was no wonder that Tierney should have fears for his friend's
interests. Not that there was any real occasion for them. Fanny Wyndham was not the girl to
be talked out of, or into, a real passion, by anyone.

"Now, tell me the truth, Fanny," said Kilcullen, as they were sitting over the fire together
in the library, one dark afternoon, before they went to dress for dinner; "hadn't you been
taught to look on me as a kind of ogre--a monster of iniquity, who spoke nothing but oaths,
and did nothing but sin?"

"Not exactly that: but I won't say I thought you were exactly just what you ought to be."

"But didn't you think I was exactly what I ought not to have been? Didn't you imagine, now,
that I habitually sat up all night, gambling, and drinking buckets of champagne and brandy-and-water?
And that I lay in bed all day, devising iniquity in my dreams? Come now, tell the truth, and
shame the devil; if I am the devil, I know people have made me out to be."

"Why, really, Adolphus, I never calculated how your days and nights were spent. But if I am
to tell the truth, I fear some of them might have been passed to better advantage."

"Which of us, Fanny, mightn't, with truth, say the same of ourselves?"

"Of course, none of us," said Fanny; "don't think I'm judging you; you asked me the question,--and
I suppose you wanted an answer."

"I did; I wanted a true one--for though you may never have given yourself much trouble to form
an opinion about me, I am anxious that you should do so now. I don't want to trouble you with
what is done and past; I don't want to make it appear that I have not been thoughtless and
imprudent--wicked and iniquitous, if you are fond of strong terms; neither do I want to trouble
you with confessing all my improprieties, that I may regularly receive absolution. But I do
wish you to believe that I have done nothing which should exclude me from your future good
opinion; from your friendship and esteem."

"I am not of an unforgiving temperament, even had you done anything for me to forgive: but
I am not aware that you have."

"No; nothing for you to forgive, in the light of an offence to yourself; but much, perhaps,
to prevent your being willing to regard me as a personal friend. We're not only first cousins,
Fanny, but are placed more closely together than cousins usually are. You have neither father
nor mother; now, also, you have no brother," and he took her hands in his own as he said so.
"Who should be a brother to you, if I am not? who, at any rate, should you look on as a friend,
if not on me? Nobody could be better, I believe, than Selina; but she is stiff, and cold--unlike
you in everything. I should be so happy if I could be the friend--the friend of friends you
spoke of the other evening; if I could fill the place which must be empty near your heart.
I can never be this to you, if you believe that anything in my past life has been really disgraceful.
It is for this reason that I want to know what you truly think of me. I won't deny that I am
anxious you should think well of me:--well, at any rate for the present, and the future, and
charitably as regards the past."

Fanny had been taken much by surprise by the turn her cousin had given to the conversation;
and was so much affected, that, before he had finished, she was in tears. She had taken her
hand out of his, to put her handkerchief to her eyes, and as she did not immediately answer,
he continued:

"I shall probably be much here for some time to come--such, at least, are my present plans;
and I hope that while I am, we shall become friends: not such friends, Fanny, as you and Judith
O'Joscelyn--friends only of circumstance, who have neither tastes, habits, or feelings in common--friends
whose friendship consists in living in the same parish, and meeting each other once or twice
a week; but friends in reality--friends in confidence--friends in mutual dependence--friends
in love--friends, dear Fanny, as cousins situated as we are should be to each other."

Fanny's heart was very full, for she felt how much, how desperately, she wanted such a friend
as Kilcullen described. How delightful it would be to have such a friend, and to find him in
her own cousin! The whole family, hitherto, were so cold to her--so uncongenial. The earl she
absolutely disliked; she loved her aunt, but it was only because she was her aunt--she couldn't
like her; and though she loved Lady Selina, and, to a degree, admired her, it was like loving
a marble figure. There was more true feeling in what Kilcullen had now said to her, than in
all that had fallen from the whole family for the four years she had lived at Grey Abbey, and
she could not therefore but close on the offer of his affection.

"Shall we be such friends, then?" said he; "or, after all, am I too bad? Have I too much of
the taint of the wicked world to be the friend of so pure a creature as you?"

"Oh no, Adolphus; I'm sure I never thought so," said she. "I never judged you, and indeed I
am not disposed to do so now. I'm too much in want of kindness to reject yours,--even were
I disposed to do so, which I am not."

"Then, Fanny, we are to be friends--true, loving, trusting friends?"

"Oh, yes!" said Fanny. "I am really, truly grateful for your affection and kindness. I know
how precious they are, and I will value them accordingly."

Again Lord Kilcullen took her hand, and pressed it in his; and then he kissed it, and told
her she was his own dear cousin Fanny; and then recommended her to go and dress, which she
did. He sat himself down for a quarter of an hour, ruminating, and then also went off to dress;
but, during that quarter of an hour, very different ideas passed through his mind, than such
as those who knew him best would have given him credit for.

In the first place, he thought that he really began to feel an affection for his cousin Fanny,
and to speculate whether it were absolutely within the verge of possibility that he should
marry her--retrieve his circumstances--treat her well, and live happily for the rest of his
life as a respectable nobleman.

For two or three minutes the illusion remained, till it was banished by retrospection. It was
certainly possible that he should marry her: it was his full intention to do so: but as to
retrieving his circumstances and treating her well!--the first was absolutely impossible--the
other nearly so; and as to his living happily at Grey Abbey as a family man, he yawned as he
felt how impossible it would be that he should spend a month in such a way, let alone a life.
But then Fanny Wyndham was so beautiful, so lively, so affectionate, so exactly what a cousin
and a wife ought to be: he could not bear to think that all his protestations of friendship
and love had been hypocritical; that he could only look upon her as a gudgeon, and himself
as a bigger fish, determined to swallow her! Yet such must be his views regarding her. He departed
to dress, absolutely troubled in his conscience.

And what were Fanny's thoughts about her cousin? She was much surprised and gratified, but
at the same time somewhat flustered and overwhelmed, by the warmth and novelty of his affection.
However, she never for a moment doubted his truth towards her, or had the slightest suspicion
of his real object. Her chief thought was whether she could induce him to be a mediator for
her, between Lord Cashel and Lord Ballindine.

During the next two days he spoke to her a good deal about her brother--of whom, by-the-bye,
he had really known nothing. He contrived, however, to praise him as a young man of much spirit
and great promise; then he spoke of her own large fortune, asked her what her wishes were about
its investment, and told her how happy he would be to express those wishes at once to Lord
Cashel, and to see that they were carried out. Once or twice she had gradually attempted to
lead the conversation to Lord Ballindine, but Kilcullen was too crafty, and had prevented her;
and she had not yet sufficient courage to tell him at once what was so near her heart.

"Fanny," said Lady Selina, one morning, about a week after the general arrival of the company
at Grey Abbey, and when some of them had taken their departure, "I am very glad to see you
have recovered your spirits: I know you have made a great effort, and I appreciate and admire it."

"Indeed, Selina, I fear you are admiring me too soon. I own I have been amused this week past,
and, to a certain degree, pleased; but I fear you'll find I shall relapse. There's been no
radical reform; my thoughts are all in the same direction as they were."

"But the great trial in this world is to behave well and becomingly in spite of oppressive
thoughts: and it always takes a struggle to do that, and that struggle you've made. I hope
it may lead you to feel that you may be contented and in comfort without having everything
which you think necessary to your happiness. I'm sure I looked forward to this week as one
of unmixed trouble and torment; but I was very wrong to do so. It has given me a great deal
of unmixed satisfaction."

"I'm very glad of that, Selina, but what was it? I'm sure it could not have come from poor
Mrs Ellison, or the bishop's wife; and you seemed to me to spend all your time in talking to
them. Virtue, they say, is its own reward: I don't know what other satisfaction you can have
had from them."

"In the first place, it has given me great pleasure to see that you were able to exert yourself
in company, and that the crowd of people did not annoy you: but I have chiefly been delighted
by seeing that you and Adolphus are such good friends. You must think, Fanny, that I am anxious
about an only brother--especially when we have all had so much cause to be anxious about him;
and don't you think it must be a delight to me to find that he is able to take pleasure in
your society? I should be doubly pleased, doubly delighted, if I could please him myself. But
I have not the vivacity to amuse him."

"What nonsense, Selina! Don't say that."

"But it's true, Fanny; I have not; and Grey Abbey has become distasteful to him because we
are all sedate, steady people. Perhaps some would call us dull, and heavy; and I have grieved
that it should be so, though I cannot alter my nature; but you are so much the contrary--there
is so much in your character like his own, before he became fond of the world, that I feel
he can become attached to and fond of you; and I am delighted to see that he thinks so himself.
What do you think of him, now that you have seen more of him than you ever did before?"

"Indeed," said Fanny, "I like him very much."

"He is very clever, isn't he? He might have been anything if he had given himself fair play.
He seems to have taken greatly to you."

"Oh yes; we are great friends:" and then Fanny paused--"so great friends," she continued, looking
somewhat gravely in Lady Selina's face, "that I mean to ask the greatest favour of him that
I could ask of anyone: one I am sure I little dreamed I should ever ask of him."

"What is it, Fanny? Is it a secret?"

"Indeed it is, Selina; but it's a secret I will tell you. I mean to tell him all I feel about
Lord Ballindine, and I mean to ask him to see him for me. Adolphus has offered to be a brother
to me, and I mean to take him at his word."

Lady Selina turned very pale, and looked very grave as she replied,

"That is not giving him a brother's work, Fanny. A brother should protect you from importunity
and insult, from injury and wrong; and that, I am sure, Adolphus would do: but no brother would
consent to offer your hand to a man who had neglected you and been refused, and who, in all
probability, would now reject you with scorn if he has the opportunity--or if not that, will
take you for your money's sake. That, Fanny, is not a brother's work; and it is an embassy
which I am sure Adolphus will not undertake. If you take my advice you will not ask him."

As Lady Selina finished speaking she walked to the door, as if determined to hear no reply
from her cousin; but, as she was leaving the room, she fancied that she heard her sobbing,
and her heart softened, and she again turned towards her and said, "God knows, Fanny, I do
not wish to be severe or ill-natured to you; I would do anything for your comfort and happiness,
but I cannot bear to think that you should"--Lady Selina was puzzled for a word to express
her meaning--"that you should forget yourself," and she attempted to put her arm round Fanny's
waist.

But she was mistaken; Fanny was not sobbing, but was angry; and what Selina now said about
her forgetting herself, did not make her less so.

"No," she said, withdrawing herself from her cousin's embrace and standing erect, while her
bosom was swelling with indignation: "I want no affection from you, Selina, that is accompanied
by so much disapprobation. You don't wish to be severe, only you say that I am likely to forget
myself. Forget myself!" and Fanny threw back her beautiful head, and clenched her little fists
by her side: "The other day you said 'disgrace myself', and I bore it calmly then; but I will
not any longer bear such imputations. I tell you plainly, Selina, I will not forget myself,
nor will I be forgotten. Nor will I submit to whatever fate cold, unfeeling people may doom
me, merely because I am a woman and alone. I will not give up Lord Ballindine, if I have to
walk to his door and tell him so. And were I to do so, I should never think that I had forgotten
myself."

"Listen to me, Fanny," said Selina.

