When doing housework, if your hands become chapped or red, mix corn meal and vinegar into a
stiff paste and apply to the hands two or three times a day, after washing them in hot water,
then let dry without wiping, and rub with glycerine. At night use cold cream, and wear gloves.

BLEEDING.

Very hot water is a prompt checker of bleeding, besides if it is clean, as it should be, it
aids in sterilizing our wound.

TREATMENT FOR CRAMP.

Wherever friction can be conveniently applied, heat will be generated by it, and the muscle
again reduced to a natural condition; but if the pains proceed from the contraction of some
muscle located internally, burnt brandy is an excellent remedy.

A severe attack which will not yield to this simple treatment may be conquered by administering
a small dose of laudanum or ether, best given under medical supervision.

TREATMENT FOR COLIC

Castor oil, given as soon as the symptoms of colic manifest themselves, has frequently afforded
relief. At any rate, the irritating substances must be expelled from the alimentary canal before
the pains will subside. All local remedies will be ineffectual, and consequently the purgative
should be given in large doses until a copious vacuation is produced.

TREATMENT FOR HEARTBURN.

If soda, taken in small quantities after meals, does not relieve the distress, one may rest
assured that the fluid is an alkali and requires an acid treatment. Proceed, after eating,
to squeeze ten drops of lemon-juice into a small quantity of water, and swallow it. The habit
of daily life should be made to conform to the laws of health, or local treatment will prove
futile.

BILIOUSNESS.

For biliousness, squeeze the juice of a lime or small lemon into half a glass of cold water,
then stir in a little baking soda and drink while it foams. This receipt will also relieve
sick headache if taken at the beginning.

TURPENTINE APPLICATIONS.

Mix turpentine and lard in equal parts. Warmed and rubbed on the chest, it is a safe, reliable
and mild counter irritant and revulsent in minor lung complications.

TREATMENT FOR MUMPS.

It is very important that the face and neck be kept warm. Avoid catching cold, and regulate
the stomach and bowels; because when aggravated, this disease is communicated to other glands,
and assumes there a serious form. Rest and quiet, with a good condition of the general health,
will throw off this disease without further inconvenience.

TREATMENT FOR FELON.

All medication, such as poulticing, anointing, and the applications of lotions, is but useless
waste of time. The surgeon's knife should be used as early as possible, for it will be required
sooner or later and the more promptly it can be applied, the less danger is there from the
disease, and the more agony is spared to the unfortunate victim.

TREATMENT FOR STABS.

A wound made by thrusting a dagger or other oblong instrument into the flesh, is best treated,
if no artery has been severed, by applying lint scraped from a linen cloth, which serves as
an obstruction, allowing and assisting coagulation. Meanwhile cold water should be applied
to the parts adjoining the wound.

TREATMENT FOR MASHED NAILS.

If the injured member be plunged into very hot water the nail will become pliable and adapt
itself to the new condition of things, thus alleviating agony to some extent. A small hole
may be bored on the nail with a pointed instrument, so adroitly as not to cause pain, yet so
successfully as to relieve pressure on the sensitive tissues. Free applications of arnica or
iodine will have an excellent effect.

TREATMENT FOR FOREIGN BODY IN THE EYE.

When any foreign body enters the eye, close it instantly, and keep it still until you have
an opportunity to ask the assistance of some one; then have the upper lid folded over a pencil
and the exposed surfaces closely searched; if the body be invisible, catch the everted lid
by the lashes, and drawing it down over the lower lid, suddenly release it, and it will resume
its natural position. Unsuccessful in this attempt, you may be pretty well assured that the
object has become lodged in the tissues, and will require the assistance of a skilled operator
to remove it.

CUTS.

A drop or two of creosote on a cut will stop its bleeding.

TREATMENT FOR POISON OAK--POISON IVY--POISON SUMACH.--Mr. Charles Morris, of Philadelphia,
who has studied the subject closely, uses, as a sovereign remedy, frequent bathing of the affected
parts in water as hot as can be borne. If used immediately after exposure, it may prevent the
eruption appearing. If later, it allays the itching, and gradually dries up the swellings,
though they are very stubborn after they have once appeared. But an application every few hours
keeps down the intolerable itching, which is the most annoying feature of sumach poisoning.
In addition to this, the ordinary astringent ointments are useful, as is also that sovereign
lotion, "lead-water and laudanum." Mr. Morris adds to these a preventive prescription of "wide-open
eyes."

BITES AND STINGS OF INSECTS.--Wash with a solution of ammonia water.

BITES OF MAD DOGS.--Apply caustic potash at once to the wound, and give enough whiskey to cause
sleep.

BURNS.--Make a paste of common baking soda and water, and apply it promptly to the burn. It
will quickly check the pain and inflammation.

COLD ON CHEST.--A flannel rag wrung out in boiling water and sprinkled with turpentine, laid
on the chest, gives the greatest relief.

COUGH.--Boil one ounce of flaxseed in a pint of water, strain, and add a little honey, one
ounce of rock candy, and the juice of three lemons. Mix and boil well. Drink as hot as possible.
Keep the foot as cool as possible to prevent inflammation, and sit with it elevated on a high
cushion. Live on low diet, and take every morning some cooling medicine, such as Epsom salts.
It cures in a few days.

CHILBLAINS, SPRAINS, ETC.--One raw egg well beaten, half a pint of vinegar, one ounce spirits
of turpentine, a quarter of an ounce of spirits of wine, a quarter of an ounce of camphor.
These ingredients to be beaten together, then put in a bottle and shaken for ten minutes, after
which, to be corked down tightly to exclude the air. In half an hour it is fit for use. To
be well rubbed in, two, three, or four times a day. For rheumatism in the head, to be rubbed
at the back of the neck and behind the ears. In chilblains this remedy is to be used before
they are broken.

HOW TO REMOVE SUPERFLUOUS HAIR.--Sulphuret of Arsenic, one ounce; Quicklime, one ounce; Prepared
Lard, one ounce; White Wax, one ounce. Melt the Wax, add the Lard. When nearly cold, stir in
the other ingredients. Apply to the superfluous hair, allowing it to remain on from five to
ten minutes; use a table-knife to shave off the hair; then wash with soap and warm water.

DYSPEPSIA CURE.--Powdered Rhubarb, two drachms: Bicarbonate of Sodium, six drachms; Fluid Extract
of Gentian, three drachms; Peppermint Water, seven and a half ounces. Mix them. Dose, a teaspoonful
half an hour before meals.

FOR NEURALGIA.--Tincture of Belladonna, one ounce; Tincture of Camphor, one ounce; Tincture
of Arnica, one ounce; Tincture of Opium, one ounce. Mix them. Apply over the seat of the pain,
and give ten to twenty drops in sweetened water every two hours.

FOR COUGHS, COLDS, ETC.--Syrup of Morphia, three ounces; Syrup of Tar, three and a half ounces;
Chloroform, one troy ounce; Glycerine, one troy ounce. Mix them. Dose, a teaspoonful three
or four times a day.

TO CURE HIVES.--Compound syrup of Squill, U.S., three ounces; Syrup of Ipecac, U.S., one ounce.
Mix them. Dose, a teaspoonful.

TO CURE SICK HEADACHE.--Gather sumach leaves in the summer, and spread them in the sun a few
days to dry. Then powder them fine, and smoke, morning and evening for two weeks, also whenever
there are symptoms of approaching headache. Use a new clay pipe. If these directions are adhered
to, this medicine will surely effect a permanent cure.

WHOOPING COUGH.--Dissolve a scruple of salt of tartar in a gill of water; add to it ten grains
of cochineal; sweeten it with sugar. Give to an infant a quarter teaspoonful four times a day;
two years old, one-half teaspoonful; from four years, a tablespoonful. Great care is required
in the administration of medicines to infants. We can assure paternal inquirers that the foregoing
may be depended upon.

CUT OR BRUISE.--Apply the moist surface of the inside coating or skin of the shell of a raw
egg. It will adhere of itself, leave no scar, and heal without pain.

DISINFECTANT.--Chloride of lime should be scattered at least once a week under sinks and wherever
sewer gas is likely to penetrate.

COSTIVENESS.--Common charcoal is highly recommended for costiveness. It may be taken in tea-
or tablespoonful, or even larger doses, according to the exigencies of the case, mixed with
molasses, repeating it as often as necessary. Bathe the bowels with pepper and vinegar. Or
take two ounces of rhubarb, add one ounce of rust of iron, infuse in one quart of wine. Half
a wineglassful every morning. Or take pulverized blood root, one drachm, pulverized rhubarb,
one drachm, castile soap, two scruples. Mix and roll into thirty-two pills. Take one, morning
and night. By following these directions it may perhaps save you from a severe attack of the
piles, or some other kindred disease.

TO CURE DEAFNESS.--Obtain pure pickerel oil, and apply four drops morning and evening to the
ear. Great care should be taken to obtain oil that is perfectly pure.

DEAFNESS.--Take three drops of sheep's gall, warm and drop it into the ear on going to bed.
The ear must be syringed with warm soap and water in the morning. The gall must be applied
for three successive nights. It is only efficacious when the deafness is produced by cold.
The most convenient way of warming the gall is by holding it in a silver spoon over the flame
of a light. The above remedy has been frequently tried with perfect success.

GOUT.--This is Col. Birch's recipe for rheumatic gout or acute rheumatism, commonly called
in England the "Chelsea Pensioner." Half an ounce of nitre (saltpetre), half an ounce of sulphur,
half an ounce of flour of mustard, half an ounce of Turkey rhubarb, quarter of an ounce of
powdered guaicum. Mix, and take a teaspoonful every other night for three nights, and omit
three nights, in a wineglassful of cold water which has been previously well boiled.

RINGWORM.--The head is to be washed twice a day with soft soap and warm soft water; when dried
the places to be rubbed with a piece of linen rag dipped in ammonia from gas tar; the patient
should take a little sulphur and molasses, or some other genuine aperient, every morning; brushes
and combs should be washed every day, and the ammonia kept tightly corked.

PILES.--Hamamelis, both internally or as an injection in rectum. Bathe the parts with cold
water or with astringent lotions, as alum water, especially in bleeding piles. Ointment of
gallic acid and calomel is of repute. The best treatment of all is, suppositories of iodoform,
ergotine, of tannic acid, which can be made at any drug store.

CHICKEN POX.--No medicine is usually needed, except a tea made from pleurisy root, to make
the child sweat. Milk diet is the best; avoidance of animal food; careful attention to the
bowels; keep cool and avoid exposure to cold.

SCARLET FEVER.--Cold water compress on the throat. Fats and oils rubbed on hands and feet.
The temperature of the room should be about 68 degrees Fahr., and all draughts avoided. Mustard
baths for retrocession of the rash and to bring it out. Diet: ripe fruit, toast, gruel, beef,
tea and milk. Stimulants are useful to counteract depression of the vital forces.

FALSE MEASLES OR ROSE RASH.--It requires no treatment except hygienic. Keep the bowels open.
Nourishing diet, and if there is itching, moisten the skin with five per cent. solution of
aconite or solution of starch and water.

BILIOUS ATTACKS.--Drop doses of muriatic acid in a wine glass of water every four hours, or
the following prescription: Bicarbonate of soda, one drachm; Aromatic spirits of ammonia, two
drachms; Peppermint water, four ounces. Dose: Take a teaspoonful every four hours.

DIARRHOEA.--The following prescription is generally all that will be necessary: acetate of
lead, eight grains; gum arabic, two drachms; acetate of morphia, one grain; and cinnamon water,
eight ounces. Take a teaspoonful every three hours.

Be careful not to eat too much food. Some consider, the best treatment is to fast, and it is
a good suggestion. Patients should keep quiet and have the room of a warm and even temperature.

VOMITING.--Ice dissolved in the mouth, often cures vomiting when all remedies fail. Much depends
on the diet of persons liable to such attacts; this should be easily digestible food, taken
often and in small quantities. Vomiting can often be arrested by applying a mustard paste over
the region of the stomach. It is not necessary to allow it to remain until the parts are blistered,
but it may be removed when the part becomes thoroughly red, and reapplied if required after
the redness has disappeared. One of the secrets to relieve vomiting is to give the stomach
perfect rest, not allowing the patient even a glass of water, as long as the tendency remains
to throw it up again.

NERVOUS HEADACHE.--Extract hyoscymus five grains, pulverized camphor five grains. Mix. Make
four pills, one to be taken when the pain is most severe in nervous headache. Or three drops
tincture nux vomica in a spoonful of water, two or three times a day. An easier and simpler
method is to place a piece of writing paper on the gums of the upper jaw, under the upper lip,
and let it remain there for a few minutes.

BOILS.--These should be brought to a head by warm poultices of camomile flowers, or boiled
white lily root, or onion root, by fermentation with hot water, or by stimulating plasters.
When ripe they should be destroyed by a needle or lancet. But this should not be attempted
until they are thoroughly proved.

BUNIONS may be checked in their early development by binding the joint with adhesive plaster,
and keeping it on as long as any uneasiness is felt. The bandaging should be perfect, and it
might be well to extend it round the foot An inflamed bunion should be poulticed, and larger
shoes be worn. Iodine 12 grains, lard or spermaceti ointment half an ounce, makes a capital
ointment for bunions. It should be rubbed on gently twice or three times a day.

FELONS.--One table-spoonful of red lead, and one tablespoonful of castile soap, and mix them
with as much weak lye as will make it soft enough to spread like a salve, and apply it on the
first appearance of the felon, and it will cure in ten or twelve days.

CARE FOR WARTS.--The easiest way to get rid of warts, is to pare off the thickened skin which
covers the prominent wart; cut it off by successive layers and shave it until you come to the
surface of the skin, and till you draw blood in two or three places. Then rub the part thoroughly
over with lunar caustic, and one effective operation of this kind will generally destroy the
wart; if not, you cut off the black spot which has been occasioned by the caustic, and apply
it again; or you may apply acetic acid, and thus you will get rid of it. Care must be taken
in applying these acids, not to rub them on the skin around the wart.

WENS.--Take the yoke of some eggs, beat up, and add as much fine salt as will dissolve, and
apply a plaster to the wen every ten hours. It cures without pain or any other inconvenience.

       *       *       *       *       *

HOW TO CURE APOPLEXY, BAD BREATH AND QUINSY.

1. APOPLEXY.--Apoplexy occurs only in the corpulent or obese, and those of gross or high living.

2.

3.

       *       *       *       *       *

SENSIBLE RULES FOR THE NURSE.

"Remember to be extremely neat in dress; a few drops of hartshorn in the water used for daily
bathing will remove the disagreeable odors of warmth and perspiration.

"Never speak of the symptoms of your patient in his presence, unless questioned by the doctor,
whose orders you are always to obey implicitly.

"Remember never to be a gossip or tattler, and always to hold sacred the knowledge which, to
a certain extent, you must obtain of the private affairs of your patient and the household
in which you nurse.

"Never contradict your patient, nor argue with him, nor let him see that you are annoyed about
anything.

"Never whisper in the sick room. If your patient be well enough, and wishes you to talk to
him, speak in a low, distinct voice, on cheerful subjects. Don't relate painful hospital experiences,
nor give details of the maladies of former patients, and remember never to startle him with
accounts of dreadful crimes or accidents that you have read in the newspapers.

"Write down the orders that the physician gives you as to time for giving the medicines, food, etc.

"Keep the room bright (unless the doctor orders it darkened).

"Let the air of the room be as pure as possible, and keep everything in order, but without
being fussy and bustling.

"The only way to remove dust in a sick room is to wipe everything with a damp cloth.

"Remember to carry out all vessels covered. Empty and wash them immediately, and keep some
disinfectant in them.

"Medicines, beef tea or stimulants, should never be kept where the patient can see them or
smell them. Experiments have shown that black and other dark colors will absorb more readily
the subtle effluvia that emanates from sick persons than white or light colors."

       *       *       *       *       *

LONGEVITY.

The following table exhibits very recent mortality statistics, showing the average duration
of life among persons of various classes:

  Employment.    Years.

  Judges          65
  Farmers         64
  Bank Officers   64
  Coopers         58
  Public Officers 57
  Clergymen       56
  Shipwrights     55
  Hatters         54
  Lawyers         54
  Rope Makers     54
  Blacksmiths     51
  Merchants       51
  Calico Printers 51
  Physicians      51
  Butchers        50
  Carpenters      49
  Masons          48
  Traders         46
  Tailors         44
  Jewelers        44
  Manufacturers   43
  Bakers          43
  Painters        43
  Shoemakers      43
  Mechanics       43
  Editors         40
  Musicians       39
  Printers        38
  Machinists      36
  Teachers        34
  Clerks          34
  Operatives      32

"It will be easily seen, by these figures, how a quiet or tranquil life affects longevity.
The phlegmatic man will live longer, all other things being equal, than the sanguine, nervous
individual. Marriage is favorable to longevity, and it has also been ascertained that women
live longer than men."

       *       *       *       *       *

HOW TO APPLY AND USE HOT WATER IN ALL DISEASES.

1. THE HOT WATER THROAT BAG. The hot water throat bag is made from fine white rubber fastened
to the head by a rubber band (see illustration), and is an unfailing remedy for catarrh, hay
fever, cold, toothache, headache, earache, neuralgia, etc.

2. THE HOT WATER BOTTLE. No well regulated house should be without a hot water bottle. It is
excellent in the application of hot water for inflammations, colic, headache, congestion, cold
feet, rheumatism, sprains, etc., etc. It is an excellent warming pan and an excellent feet
and hand warmer when riding. These hot water bags in any variety can be purchased at any drug
store.

3. Boiling water may be used in the bags and the heat will be retained many hours. They are
soft and pliable and pleasant to the touch, and can be adjusted to any part of the body.

4. Hot water is good for constipation, torpid liver and relieves colic and flatulence, and
is of special value.

5. Caution. When hot water bags or any hot fomentation is removed, replace dry flannel and
bathe parts in tepid water and rub till dry.

6. By inflammations it is best to use hot water and then cold water. It seems to give more
immediate relief. Hot water is a much better remedy than drugs, paragoric, Dover's powder or
morphine. Always avoid the use of strong poisonous drugs when possible.

7. Those who suffer from cold feet there is no better remedy than to bathe the feet in cold
water before retiring and then place a hot water bottle in the bed at the feet. A few weeks
of such treatment results in relief if not cure of the most obstinate case.

HOW TO USE COLD WATER.

Use a compress of cold water for acute or chronic inflammation, such as sore throat, bronchitis,
croup, inflammation of the lungs, etc. If there is a hot and aching pain in the back apply
a compress of cold water on the same, or it may simply be placed across the back or around
the body. The most depends upon the condition of the patient.

       *       *       *       *       *

PRACTICAL RULES FOR BATHING.

1. Bathe at least once a week all over, thoroughly. No one can preserve his health by neglecting
personal cleanliness. Remember, "Cleanliness is akin to Godliness."

2. Only mild soap should be used in bathing the body.

3. Wipe quickly and dry the body thoroughly with a moderately coarse towel. Rub the skin vigorously.

4. Many people have contracted severe and fatal diseases by neglecting to take proper care
of the body after bathing.

5. If you get up a good reaction by thorough rubbing in a mild temperature, the effect is always
good.

6. Never go into a cold room, or allow cold air to enter the room until you are dressed.

7. Bathing in cold rooms and in cold water is positively injurious, unless the person possesses
a very strong and vigorous constitution, and then there is great danger of laying the foundation
of some serious disease.

8. Never bathe within two hours after eating. It injures digestion.

9. Never bathe when the body or mind is much exhausted. It is liable to check the healthful
circulation.

10. A good time for bathing is just before retiring. The morning hour is a good time also,
if a warm room and warm water can be secured.

11. Never bathe a fresh wound or broken skin with cold water; the wound absorbs water, and
causes swelling and irritation.

12. A person not robust should be very careful in bathing; great care should be exercised to
avoid any chilling effects.

       *       *       *       *       *

ALL THE DIFFERENT KINDS OF BATHS, AND HOW TO PREPARE THEM.

THE SULPHUR BATH.

For the itch, ringworm, itching, and for other slight irritations, bathe in water containing
a little sulphur.

THE SALT BATH.

To open the pores of the skin, put a little common salt into the water. Borax, baking soda
or lime used in the same way are excellent for cooling and cleansing the skin. A very small
quantity in a bowl of water is sufficient.

THE VAPOR BATH.

1. For catarrh, bronchitis, pleurisy, inflammation of the lungs, rheumatism, fever, affections
of the bowels and kidneys, and skin diseases, the vapor-bath is an excellent remedy.

2. APPARATUS.--Use a small alcohol lamp, and place over it a small dish containing water. Light
the lamp and allow the water to boil. Place a cane bottom chair over the lamp, and seat the
patient on it. Wrap blankets or quilts around the chair and around the patient, closing it
tightly about the neck. After free perspiration is produced the patient should be wrapped in
warm blankets, and placed in bed, so as to continue the perspiration for some time.

3. A convenient alcohol lamp may be made by taking a tin box, placing a tube in it, and putting
in a common lamp wick. Any tinner can make one in a few minutes, at a trifling cost.

THE HOT-AIR BATH.

1. Place the alcohol lamp under the chair, without the dish of water. Then place the patient
on the chair, as in the vapor bath, and let him remain until a gentle and free perspiration
is produced. This bath may be taken from time to time, as may be deemed necessary.

2. While remaining in the hot-air bath the patient may drink freely of cold or tepid water.

3. As soon as the bath is over the patient should be washed with hot water and soap.

4. The hot-air bath is excellent for colds, skin diseases, and the gout.

THE SPONGE BATH.

1. Have a large basin of water of the temperature of 85 or 95 degrees. As soon as the patient
rises rub the body over with a soft, dry towel until it becomes warm.

2. Now sponge the body with water and a little soap, at the same time keeping the body well
covered, except such portions as are necessarily exposed. Then dry the skin carefully with
a soft, warm towel. Rub the skin well for two or three minutes, until every part becomes red
and perfectly dry.

3. Sulphur, lime or salt, and sometimes mustard, may be used in any of the sponge baths, according
to the disease.

THE FOOT BATH.

1. The foot bath, in coughs, colds, asthma, headaches and fevers, is excellent. One or two
tablespoonfuls of ground mustard added to a gallon of hot water, is very beneficial.

2. Heat the water as hot as the patient can endure it, and gradually increase the temperature
by pouring in additional quantities of hot water during the bath.

THE SITZ BATH.

A tub is arranged so that the patient can sit down in it while bathing. Fill the tub about
one-half full of water. This is an excellent remedy for piles, constipation, headache, gravel,
and for acute and inflammatory affections generally.

THE ACID BATH.

Place a little vinegar in water, and heat to the usual temperature. This is an excellent remedy
for the disorders of the liver.

A SURE CURE FOR PRICKLY HEAT.

1. Prickly heat is caused by hot weather, by excess of flesh, by rough flannels, by sudden
changes of temperature, or by over-fatigue.

2. TREATMENT--Bathe two or three times a day with warm water, in which a moderate quantity
of bran and common soda has been stirred. After wiping the skin dry, dust the affected parts
with common cornstarch.

       *       *       *       *       *

DIGESTIBILITY OF FOOD.

ARTICLE OF FOOD; CONDITION; HOURS REQUIRED

  Rice; Boiled; 1.00
  Eggs, whipped; Raw; 1.30
  Trout, salmon, fresh; Boiled; 1.30
  Apples, sweet and mellow; Raw; 1.30
  Venison steak; Broiled; 1.35
  Tapioca; Boiled; 2.00
  Barley; Boiled; 2.00
  Milk; Boiled; 2.00
  Bullock's liver, fresh; Broiled; 2.00
  Fresh eggs; Raw; 2.00
  Codfish, cured and dry; Boiled; 2.00
  Milk; Raw; 2.15
  Wild turkey; Roasted; 2.15
  Domestic turkey; Roasted; 2.30;
  Goose; Roasted; 2.30
  Suckling pig; Roasted; 2.30
  Fresh Lamb; Broiled; 2.30
  Hash, meat and vegetables; Warmed; 2.30
  Beans and pod; Boiled; 2.30
  Parsnips; Boiled; 2.30
  Irish potatoes; Roasted; 2.30
  Chicken; Fricassee; 2.45
  Custard; Baked; 2.45
  Salt beef; Boiled; 2.45
  Sour and hard apples; Raw; 2.50
  Fresh oysters; Raw; 2.55
  Fresh eggs; Soft Boiled; 3.00
  Beef, fresh, lean and rare; Roasted; 3.00
  Beef steak; Broiled; 3.00
  Pork, recently salted; Stewed; 3.00
  Fresh mutton; Boiled; 3.00
  Soup, beans; Boiled; 3.00
  Soup, chicken; Boiled; 3.00
  Apple dumpling; Boiled; 3.00
  Fresh oysters; Roasted; 3.15
  Pork steak; Broiled; 3.15
  Fresh mutton; Roasted; 3.15
  Corn bread; Baked; 3.15
  Carrots; Boiled; 3.15
  Fresh sausage; Broiled; 3.20
  Fresh flounder; Fried; 3.30
  Fresh catfish; Fried; 3.30
  Fresh oysters; Stewed; 3.30
  Butter; Melted; 3.30
  Old, strong cheese; Raw; 3.30
  Mutton soup; Boiled; 3.30
  Oyster soup; Boiled; 3.30
  Fresh wheat bread; Baked; 3.30
  Flat turnips; Boiled; 3.30
  Irish potatoes; Boiled; 3.30
  Fresh eggs; Hard boiled; 3.30
  Fresh eggs; Fried; 3.30
  Green corn and beans; Boiled; 3.45
  Beets, Boiled; 3.45
  Fresh, lean beef; Fried; 4.00
  Fresh veal; Broiled; 4.00
  Domestic fowls; Roasted; 4.00
  Ducks, Roasted; 4.00
  Beef soup, vegetables and bread Boiled; 4.00
  Pork, recently salted; Boiled; 4.30
  Fresh veal; Fried; 4.30
  Cabbage, with vinegar; Boiled; 4.30
  Pork, fat and lean; Roasted; 5.30

       *       *       *       *       *

HOW TO COOK FOR THE SICK.

Useful Dietetic Recipes.

GRUELS.

1. OATMEAL GRUEL.--Stir two tablespoonfuls of coarse oatmeal into a quart of boiling water,
and let it simmer two hours. Strain, if preferred.

2. BEEF TEA AND OATMEAL.--Beat two tablespoonfuls of fine oatmeal, with two tablespoonfuls
of cold water until very smooth, then add a pint of hot beef tea. Boil together six or eight
minutes, stirring constantly. Strain through a fine sieve.

3. MILK GRUEL.--Into a pint of scalding milk stir two tablespoonfuls of fine oatmeal. Add a
pint of boiling water, and boil until the meal is thoroughly cooked.

4. MILK PORRIDGE.--Place over the fire equal parts of milk and water. Just before it boils,
add a small quantity (a tablespoonful to a pint of water) of graham flour or cornmeal, previously
mixed with water, and boil three minutes.

5. SAGO GRUEL.--Take two tablespoonfuls of sago and place them in a small saucepan, moisten
gradually with a little cold water. Set the preparation on a slow fire, and keep stirring till
it becomes rather stiff and clear. Add a little grated nutmeg and sugar to taste; if preferred,
half a pat of butter may also be added with the sugar.

6. CREAM GRUEL.--Put a pint and a half of water on the stove in a saucepan. Take one tablespoon
of flour and the same of cornmeal, mix this with cold water, and as soon as the water in the
saucepan boils, stir it in slowly. Let it boil slowly about twenty minutes, stirring constantly
then add a little salt and a gill of sweet cream. Do not let it boil after putting in the cream,
but turn into a bowl and cover tightly. Serve in a pretty cup and saucer.

DRINKS.

1.

2. ORANGEADE.--Take the thin peel of two oranges and of one lemon; add water and sugar the
same as for hot lemonade. When cold add the juice of four or five oranges and one lemon and
strain off.

3. HOT LEMONADE.--Take two thin slices and the juice of one lemon; mix with two tablespoonfuls
of granulated sugar, and add one-half pint of boiling water.

4. FLAXSEED LEMONADE.--Two tablespoonfuls of whole flaxseed to a pint of boiling water, let
it steep three hours, strain when cool and add the juice of two lemons and two tablespoonfuls
of honey. If too thick, put in cold water. Splendid for colds and suppression of urine.

5. JELLY WATER.--Sour jellies dissolved in water make a pleasant drink for fever patients.

6. TOAST WATER.--Toast several thin pieces of bread a slice deep brown, but do not blacken
or burn. Break into small pieces and put into a jar. Pour over the pieces a quart of boiling
water; cover the jar and let it stand an hour before using. Strain if desired.

7.

8. EGG COCOA.--One-half teaspoon cocoa with enough hot water to make a paste. Take one egg,
beat white and yolk separately. Stir into a cup of milk heated to nearly boiling. Sweeten if
desired. Very nourishing.

9. EGG LEMONADE.--White of one egg, one tablespoonful pulverized sugar, juice of one lemon
and one goblet of water. Beat together. Very grateful in inflammation of of lungs, stomach
or bowels.

10. BEEF TEA.--For every quart of tea desired use one pound of fresh beef, from which all fat,
bones and sinews have been carefully removed; cut the beef into pieces a quarter of an inch
thick and mix with a pint of cold water. Let it stand an hour, then pour into a glass fruit
can and place in a vessel of water; let it heat on the stove another hour, but do not let it
boil. Strain before using.

JELLIES.

1. SAGO JELLY.--Simmer gently in a pint of water two tablespoonfuls of sago until it thickens,
frequently stirring. A little sugar may be added if desired.

2. CHICKEN JELLY.--Take half a raw chicken, tie in a coarse cloth and pound, till well mashed,
bones and meat together. Place the mass in a covered dish with water sufficient to cover it
well. Allow it to simmer slowly till the liquor is reduced about one-half and the meat is thoroughly
cooked. Press through a fine sieve or cloth, and salt to taste. Place on the stove to simmer
about five minutes When cold remove all particles of grease.

3.

4. BREAD JELLY.--Pour boiling water over bread crumbs place the mixture on the fire and let
it boil until it is perfectly smooth. Take it off, and after pouring off the water, flavor
with something agreeable, as a little raspberry or currant jelly water. Pour into a mold until
required for use.

5. LEMON JELLY.--Moisten two tablespoonfuls of cornstarch, stir into one pint boiling water;
add the juice of two lemons and one-half cup of sugar. Grate in a little of the rind. Put in
molds to cool.

MISCELLANEOUS.

1. TO COOK RICE.--Take two cups of rice and one and one-half pints of milk. Place in a covered
dish and steam in a kettle of boiling water until it is cooked through, pour into cups and
let it stand until cold. Serve with cream.

2. RICE OMELET.--Two cups boiled rice, one cup sweet milk, two eggs. Stir together with egg
beater, and put into a hot buttered skillet. Cook slowly ten minutes, stirring frequently.

3. BROWNED RICE.--Parch or brown rice slowly. Steep in milk for two hours. The rice or the
milk only is excellent in summer complaint.

4. STEWED OYSTERS.--Take one pint of milk, one cup of water, a teaspoon of salt; when boiling
put in one pint of bulk oysters. Stir occasionally and remove from the stove before it boils.
An oyster should not be shriveled in cooking.

5. BROILED OYSTERS.--Put large oysters on a wire toaster Hold over hot coals until heated through.
Serve on toast moistened with cream. Very grateful in convalescence.

6. OYSTER TOAST.--Pour stewed oysters over graham or bread toasted. Excellent for breakfast.

7. GRAHAM CRISPS.--Mix graham flour and cold water into a very stiff dough. Knead, roll very
thin, and bake quickly in a hot oven. Excellent food for dyspeptics.

8. APPLE SNOW.--Take seven apples, not very sweet ones, and bake till soft and brown. Then
remove the skins and cores; when cool, beat them smooth and fine; add one-half cup of granulated
sugar and the white of one egg. Beat till the mixture will hold on your spoon. Serve with soft
custard.

9. EGGS ON TOAST.--Soften brown bread toast with hot water, put on a platter and cover with
poached or scrambled eggs.

10. BOILED EGGS.--An egg should never be boiled. Place in boiling water and set back on the
stove for from seven to ten minutes. A little experience will enable anyone to do it successfully.

11. CRACKED WHEAT PUDDING.--In a deep two-quart pudding dish put layers of cold, cooked, cracked
wheat, and tart apples sliced thin, with four tablespoonfuls of sugar. Raisins can be added
if preferred. Fill the dish, having the wheat last, add a cup of cold water. Bake two hours.

