"Courage, my brave horse!" cried Michael. "Come! A last effort!" And he plunged into the river,
which here was half a verst in width.

It would have been difficult to stand against the current--indeed, Michael's horse could get
no footing. He must therefore swim across the river, although it was rapid as a torrent. Even
to attempt it showed Michael's marvelous courage. The soldiers reached the bank, but hesitated
to plunge in.

The pendja-baschi seized his musket and took aim at Michael, whom he could see in the middle
of the stream. The shot was fired, and Michael's horse, struck in the side, was borne away
by the current.

His master, speedily disentangling himself from his stirrups, struck out boldly for the shore.
In the midst of a hailstorm of balls he managed to reach the opposite side, and disappeared
in the rushes.

CHAPTER XVII THE RIVALS

MICHAEL was in comparative safety, though his situation was still terrible. Now that the faithful
animal who had so bravely borne him had met his death in the waters of the river, how was he
to continue his journey?

He was on foot, without provisions, in a country devastated by the invasion, overrun by the
Emir's scouts, and still at a considerable distance from the place he was striving to reach.
"By Heaven, I will get there!" he exclaimed, in reply to all the reasons for faltering. "God
will protect our sacred Russia."

Michael was out of reach of the Usbeck horsemen. They had not dared to pursue him through the
river.

Once more on solid ground Michael stopped to consider what he should do next. He wished to
avoid Tomsk, now occupied by the Tartar troops. Nevertheless, he must reach some town, or at
least a post-house, where he could procure a horse. A horse once found, he would throw himself
out of the beaten track, and not again take to the Irkutsk road until in the neighborhood of
Krasnoiarsk. From that place, if he were quick, he hoped to find the way still open, and he
intended to go through the Lake Baikal provinces in a southeasterly direction.

Michael began by going eastward. By following the course of the Obi two versts further, he
reached a picturesque little town lying on a small hill. A few churches, with Byzantine cupolas
colored green and gold, stood up against the gray sky. This is Kolyvan, where the officers
and people employed at Kamsk and other towns take refuge during the summer from the unhealthy
climate of the Baraba. According to the latest news obtained by the Czar's courier, Kolyvan
could not be yet in the hands of the invaders. The Tartar troops, divided into two columns,
had marched to the left on Omsk, to the right on Tomsk, neglecting the intermediate country.

Michael Strogoff's plan was simply this--to reach Kolyvan before the arrival of the Usbeck
horsemen, who would ascend the other bank of the Obi to the ferry. There he would procure clothes
and a horse, and resume the road to Irkutsk across the southern steppe.

It was now three o'clock in the morning. The neighborhood of Kolyvan was very still, and appeared
to have been totally abandoned. The country population had evidently fled to the northwards,
to the province of Yeniseisk, dreading the invasion, which they could not resist.

Michael was walking at a rapid pace towards Kolyvan when distant firing struck his ear. He
stopped, and clearly distinguished the dull roar of artillery, and above it a crisp rattle
which could not be mistaken.

"It is cannon and musketry!" said he. "The little Russian body is engaged with the Tartar army!
Pray Heaven that I may arrive at Kolyvan before them!"

The firing became gradually louder, and soon to the left of Kolyvan a mist collected--not smoke,
but those great white clouds produced by discharges of artillery.

The Usbeck horsemen stopped on the left of the Obi, to await the result of the battle. From
them Michael had nothing to fear as he hastened towards the town.

In the meanwhile the firing increased, and became sensibly nearer. It was no longer a confused
roar, but distinct reports. At the same time the smoke partially cleared, and it became evident
that the combatants were rapidly moving southwards. It appeared that Kolyvan was to be attacked
on the north side. But were the Russians defending it or the Tartars? It being impossible to
decide this, Michael became greatly perplexed.

He was not more than half a verst from Kolyvan when he observed flames shooting up among the
houses of the town, and the steeple of a church fell in the midst of clouds of smoke and fire.
Was the struggle, then, in Kolyvan? Michael was compelled to think so. It was evident that
Russians and Tartars were fighting in the streets of the town. Was this a time to seek refuge
there? Would he not run a risk of being taken prisoner? Should he succeed in escaping from
Kolyvan, as he had escaped from Omsk? He hesitated and stopped a moment. Would it not be better
to try, even on foot, to reach some small town, and there procure a horse at any price? This
was the only thing to be done; and Michael, leaving the Obi, went forward to the right of Kolyvan.

The firing had now increased in violence. Flames soon sprang up on the left of the town. Fire
was devouring one entire quarter of Kolyvan.

Michael was running across the steppe endeavoring to gain the covert of some trees when a detachment
of Tartar cavalry appeared on the right. He dared not continue in that direction. The horsemen
advanced rapidly, and it would have been difficult to escape them.

Suddenly, in a thick clump of trees, he saw an isolated house, which it would be possible to
reach before he was perceived. Michael had no choice but to run there, hide himself and ask
or take something to recruit his strength, for he was exhausted with hunger and fatigue.

He accordingly ran on towards this house, still about half a verst distant. As he approached,
he could see that it was a telegraph office. Two wires left it in westerly and easterly directions,
and a third went towards Kolyvan.

It was to be supposed that under the circumstances this station was abandoned; but even if
it was, Michael could take refuge there, and wait till nightfall, if necessary, to again set
out across the steppe covered with Tartar scouts.

He ran up to the door and pushed it open.

A single person was in the room whence the telegraphic messages were dispatched. This was a
clerk, calm, phlegmatic, indifferent to all that was passing outside. Faithful to his post,
he waited behind his little wicket until the public claimed his services.

Michael ran up to him, and in a voice broken by fatigue, "What do you know?" he asked.

"Nothing," answered the clerk, smiling.

"Are the Russians and Tartars engaged?"

"They say so."

"But who are the victors?"

"I don't know."

Such calmness, such indifference, in the midst of these terrible events, was scarcely credible.

"And is not the wire cut?" said Michael.

"It is cut between Kolyvan and Krasnoiarsk, but it is still working between Kolyvan and the
Russian frontier."

"For the government?"

"For the government, when it thinks proper. For the public, when they pay. Ten copecks a word,
whenever you like, sir!"

Michael was about to reply to this strange clerk that he had no message to send, that he only
implored a little bread and water, when the door of the house was again thrown open.

Thinking that it was invaded by Tartars, Michael made ready to leap out of the window, when
two men only entered the room who had nothing of the Tartar soldier about them. One of them
held a dispatch, written in pencil, in his hand, and, passing the other, he hurried up to the
wicket of the imperturbable clerk.

In these two men Michael recognized with astonishment, which everyone will understand, two
personages of whom he was not thinking at all, and whom he had never expected to see again.
They were the two reporters, Harry Blount and Alcide Jolivet, no longer traveling companions,
but rivals, enemies, now that they were working on the field of battle.

They had left Ichim only a few hours after the departure of Michael Strogoff, and they had
arrived at Kolyvan before him, by following the same road, in consequence of his losing three
days on the banks of the Irtych. And now, after being both present at the engagement between
the Russians and Tartars before the town, they had left just as the struggle broke out in the
streets, and ran to the telegraph office, so as to send off their rival dispatches to Europe,
and forestall each other in their report of events.

Michael stood aside in the shadow, and without being seen himself he could see and hear all
that was going on. He would now hear interesting news, and would find out whether or not he
could enter Kolyvan.

Blount, having distanced his companion, took possession of the wicket, whilst Alcide Jolivet,
contrary to his usual habit, stamped with impatience.

"Ten copecks a word," said the clerk.

Blount deposited a pile of roubles on the shelf, whilst his rival looked on with a sort of
stupefaction.

"Good," said the clerk. And with the greatest coolness in the world he began to telegraph the
following dispatch: "Daily Telegraph, London.

"From Kolyvan, Government of Omsk, Siberia, 6th August.

"Engagement between Russian and Tartar troops."

The reading was in a distinct voice, so that Michael heard all that the English correspondent
was sending to his paper.

"Russians repulsed with great loss. Tartars entered Kolyvan to-day." These words ended the
dispatch.

"My turn now," cried Alcide Jolivet, anxious to send off his dispatch, addressed to his cousin.

But that was not Blount's idea, who did not intend to give up the wicket, but have it in his
power to send off the news just as the events occurred. He would therefore not make way for
his companion.

"But you have finished!" exclaimed Jolivet.

"I have not finished," returned Harry Blount quietly.

And he proceeded to write some sentences, which he handed in to the clerk, who read out in
his calm voice: "John Gilpin was a citizen of credit and renown; a train-band captain eke was
he of famous London town."

Harry Blount was telegraphing some verses learned in his childhood, in order to employ the
time, and not give up his place to his rival. It would perhaps cost his paper some thousands
of roubles, but it would be the first informed. France could wait.

Jolivet's fury may be imagined, though under any other circumstances he would have thought
it fair warfare. He even endeavored to force the clerk to take his dispatch in preference to
that of his rival.

"It is that gentleman's right," answered the clerk coolly, pointing to Blount, and smiling
in the most amiable manner. And he continued faithfully to transmit to the Daily Telegraph
the well-known verses of Cowper.

Whilst he was working Blount walked to the window and, his field glass to his eyes, watched
all that was going on in the neighborhood of Kolyvan, so as to complete his information. In
a few minutes he resumed his place at the wicket, and added to his telegram: "Two churches
are in flames. The fire appears to gain on the right. 'John Gilpin's spouse said to her dear,
Though wedded we have been these twice ten tedious years, yet we no holiday have seen.'"

Alcide Jolivet would have liked to strangle the honorable correspondent of the Daily Telegraph.

He again interrupted the clerk, who, quite unmoved, merely replied: "It is his right, sir,
it is his right--at ten copecks a word."

And he telegraphed the following news, just brought him by Blount: "Russian fugitives are escaping
from the town. 'Away went Gilpin--who but he? His fame soon spread around: He carries weight!
he rides a race! 'Tis for a thousand pound!'" And Blount turned round with a quizzical look
at his rival.

Alcide Jolivet fumed.

In the meanwhile Harry Blount had returned to the window, but this time his attention was diverted
by the interest of the scene before him. Therefore, when the clerk had finished telegraphing
the last lines dictated by Blount, Alcide Jolivet noiselessly took his place at the wicket,
and, just as his rival had done, after quietly depositing a respectable pile of roubles on
the shelf, he delivered his dispatch, which the clerk read aloud: "Madeleine Jolivet, 10, Faubourg
Montmartre, Paris.

"From Kolyvan, Government of Omsk, Siberia, 6th August.

"Fugitives are escaping from the town. Russians defeated. Fiercely pursued by the Tartar cavalry."

And as Harry Blount returned he heard Jolivet completing his telegram by singing in a mocking tone:

"II est un petit homme, Tout habille de gris, Dans Paris!"

Imitating his rival, Alcide Jolivet had used a merry refrain of Beranger.

"Hallo!" said Harry Blount.

"Just so," answered Jolivet.

In the meantime the situation at Kolyvan was alarming in the extreme. The battle was raging
nearer, and the firing was incessant.

At that moment the telegraph office shook to its foundations. A shell had made a hole in the
wall, and a cloud of dust filled the office.

Alcide was just finishing writing his lines; but to stop, dart on the shell, seize it in both
hands, throw it out of the window, and return to the wicket, was only the affair of a moment.

Five seconds later the shell burst outside. Continuing with the greatest possible coolness,
Alcide wrote: "A six-inch shell has just blown up the wall of the telegraph office. Expecting
a few more of the same size."

Michael Strogoff had no doubt that the Russians were driven out of Kolyvan. His last resource
was to set out across the southern steppe.

Just then renewed firing broke out close to the telegraph house, and a perfect shower of bullets
smashed all the glass in the windows. Harry Blount fell to the ground wounded in the shoulder.

Jolivet even at such a moment, was about to add this postscript to his dispatch: "Harry Blount,
correspondent of the Daily Telegraph, has fallen at my side struck by--" when the imperturbable
clerk said calmly: "Sir, the wire has broken." And, leaving his wicket, he quietly took his
hat, brushed it round with his sleeve, and, still smiling, disappeared through a little door
which Michael had not before perceived.

The house was surrounded by Tartar soldiers, and neither Michael nor the reporters could effect
their retreat.

Alcide Jolivet, his useless dispatch in his hand, had run to Blount, stretched on the ground,
and had bravely lifted him on his shoulders, with the intention of flying with him. He was
too late!

Both were prisoners; and, at the same time, Michael, taken unawares as he was about to leap
from the window, fell into the hands of the Tartars!

END OF BOOK I

BOOK II

CHAPTER I A TARTAR CAMP

AT a day's march from Kolyvan, several versts beyond the town of Diachinks, stretches a wide
plain, planted here and there with great trees, principally pines and cedars. This part of
the steppe is usually occupied during the warm season by Siberian shepherds, and their numerous
flocks. But now it might have been searched in vain for one of its nomad inhabitants. Not that
the plain was deserted. It presented a most animated appearance.

There stood the Tartar tents; there Feofar-Khan, the terrible Emir of Bokhara, was encamped;
and there on the following day, the 7th of August, were brought the prisoners taken at Kolyvan
after the annihilation of the Russian force, which had vainly attempted to oppose the progress
of the invaders. Of the two thousand men who had engaged with the two columns of the enemy,
the bases of which rested on Tomsk and Omsk, only a few hundred remained. Thus events were
going badly, and the imperial government appeared to have lost its power beyond the frontiers
of the Ural--for a time at least, for the Russians could not fail eventually to defeat the
savage hordes of the invaders. But in the meantime the invasion had reached the center of Siberia,
and it was spreading through the revolted country both to the eastern, and the western provinces.
If the troops of the Amoor and the province of Takutsk did not arrive in time to occupy it,
Irkutsk, the capital of Asiatic Russia, being insufficiently garrisoned, would fall into the
hands of the Tartars, and the Grand Duke, brother of the Emperor, would be sacrificed to the
vengeance of Ivan Ogareff.

What had become of Michael Strogoff? Had he broken down under the weight of so many trials?
Did he consider himself conquered by the series of disasters which, since the adventure of
Ichim, had increased in magnitude? Did he think his cause lost? that his mission had failed?
that his orders could no longer be obeyed?

Michael was one of those men who never give in while life exists. He was yet alive; he still
had the imperial letter safe; his disguise had been undiscovered. He was included amongst the
numerous prisoners whom the Tartars were dragging with them like cattle; but by approaching
Tomsk he was at the same time drawing nearer to Irkutsk. Besides, he was still in front of
Ivan Ogareff.

"I will get there!" he repeated to himself.

Since the affair of Kolyvan all the powers of his mind were concentrated on one object--to
become free! How should he escape from the Emir's soldiers?

Feofar's camp presented a magnificent spectacle.

Numberless tents, of skin, felt, or silk, glistened in the rays of the sun. The lofty plumes
which surmounted their conical tops waved amidst banners, flags, and pennons of every color.
The richest of these tents belonged to the Seides and Khodjas, who are the principal personages
of the khanat. A special pavilion, ornamented with a horse's tail issuing from a sheaf of red
and white sticks artistically interlaced, indicated the high rank of these Tartar chiefs. Then
in the distance rose several thousand of the Turcoman tents, called "karaoy," which had been
carried on the backs of camels.

The camp contained at least a hundred and fifty thousand soldiers, as many foot as horse soldiers,
collected under the name of Alamanes. Amongst them, and as the principal types of Turkestan,
would have been directly remarked the Tadjiks, from their regular features, white skin, tall
forms, and black eyes and hair; they formed the bulk of the Tartar army, and of them the khanats
of Khokhand and Koundouge had furnished a contingent nearly equal to that of Bokhara. With
the Tadjiks were mingled specimens of different races who either reside in Turkestan or whose
native countries border on it. There were Usbecks, red-bearded, small in stature, similar to
those who had pursued Michael. Here were Kirghiz, with flat faces like the Kalmucks, dressed
in coats of mail: some carried the lance, bows, and arrows of Asiatic manufacture; some the
saber, a matchlock gun, and the "tschakane," a little short-handled ax, the wounds from which
invariably prove fatal. There were Mongols--of middle height, with black hair plaited into
pigtails, which hung down their back; round faces, swarthy complexions, lively deep-set eyes,
scanty beards--dressed in blue nankeen trimmed with black plush, sword-belts of leather with
silver buckles, coats gayly braided, and silk caps edged with fur and three ribbons fluttering
behind. Brown-skinned Afghans, too, might have been seen. Arabs, having the primitive type
of the beautiful Semitic races; and Turcomans, with eyes which looked as if they had lost the
pupil,--all enrolled under the Emir's flag, the flag of incendiaries and devastators.

Among these free soldiers were a certain number of slave soldiers, principally Persians, commanded
by officers of the same nation, and they were certainly not the least esteemed of Feofar-Khan's
army.

If to this list are added the Jews, who acted as servants, their robes confined with a cord,
and wearing on their heads instead of the turban, which is forbidden them, little caps of dark
cloth; if with these groups are mingled some hundreds of "kalenders," a sort of religious mendicants,
clothed in rags, covered by a leopard skin, some idea may be formed of the enormous agglomerations
of different tribes included under the general denomination of the Tartar army.

Nothing could be more romantic than this picture, in delineating which the most skillful artist
would have exhausted all the colors of his palette.

Feofar's tent overlooked the others. Draped in large folds of a brilliant silk looped with
golden cords and tassels, surmounted by tall plumes which waved in the wind like fans, it occupied
the center of a wide clearing, sheltered by a grove of magnificent birch and pine trees. Before
this tent, on a japanned table inlaid with precious stones, was placed the sacred book of the
Koran, its pages being of thin gold-leaf delicately engraved. Above floated the Tartar flag,
quartered with the Emir's arms.

In a semicircle round the clearing stood the tents of the great functionaries of Bokhara. There
resided the chief of the stables, who has the right to follow the Emir on horseback even into
the court of his palace; the grand falconer; the "housch-begui," bearer of the royal seal;
the "toptschi-baschi," grand master of the artillery; the "khodja," chief of the council, who
receives the prince's kiss, and may present himself before him with his girdle untied; the
"scheikh-oul-islam," chief of the Ulemas, representing the priests; the "cazi-askev," who,
in the Emir's absence settles all disputes raised among the soldiers; and lastly, the chief
of the astrologers, whose great business is to consult the stars every time the Khan thinks
of changing his quarters.

When the prisoners were brought into the camp, the Emir was in his tent. He did not show himself.
This was fortunate, no doubt. A sign, a word from him might have been the signal for some bloody
execution. But he intrenched himself in that isolation which constitutes in part the majesty
of Eastern kings. He who does not show himself is admired, and, above all, feared.

As to the prisoners, they were to be penned up in some enclosure, where, ill-treated, poorly
fed, and exposed to all the inclemencies of the weather, they would await Feofar's pleasure.

The most docile and patient of them all was undoubtedly Michael Strogoff. He allowed himself
to be led, for they were leading him where he wished to go, and under conditions of safety
which free he could not have found on the road from Kolyvan to Tomsk. To escape before reaching
that town was to risk again falling into the hands of the scouts, who were scouring the steppe.
The most eastern line occupied by the Tartar columns was not situated beyond the eighty-fifth
meridian, which passes through Tomsk. This meridian once passed, Michael considered that he
should be beyond the hostile zones, that he could traverse Genisci without danger, and gain
Krasnoiarsk before Feofar-Khan had invaded the province.

"Once at Tomsk," he repeated to himself, to repress some feelings of impatience which he could
not entirely master, "in a few minutes I should be beyond the outposts; and twelve hours gained
on Feofar, twelve hours on Ogareff, that surely would be enough to give me a start of them
to Irkutsk."

The thing that Michael dreaded more than everything else was the presence of Ivan Ogareff in
the Tartar camp. Besides the danger of being recognized, he felt, by a sort of instinct, that
this was the traitor whom it was especially necessary to precede. He understood, too, that
the union of Ogareff's troops with those of Feofar would complete the invading army, and that
the junction once effected, the army would march en masse on the capital of Eastern Siberia.
All his apprehensions came from this quarter, and he dreaded every instant to hear some flourish
of trumpets, announcing the arrival of the lieutenant of the Emir.

To this was added the thought of his mother, of Nadia,--the one a prisoner at Omsk; the other
dragged on board the Irtych boats, and no doubt a captive, as Marfa Strogoff was. He could
do nothing for them. Should he ever see them again? At this question, to which he dared not
reply, his heart sank very low.

At the same time with Michael Strogoff and so many other prisoners Harry Blount and Alcide
Jolivet had also been taken to the Tartar camp. Their former traveling companion, captured
like them at the telegraph office, knew that they were penned up with him in the enclosure,
guarded by numerous sentinels, but he did not wish to accost them. It mattered little to him,
at this time especially, what they might think of him since the affair at Ichim. Besides, he
desired to be alone, that he might act alone, if necessary. He therefore held himself aloof
from his former acquaintances.

From the moment that Harry Blount had fallen by his side, Jolivet had not ceased his attentions
to him. During the journey from Kolyvan to the camp--that is to say, for several hours--Blount,
by leaning on his companion's arm, had been enabled to follow the rest of the prisoners. He
tried to make known that he was a British subject; but it had no effect on the barbarians,
who only replied by prods with a lance or sword. The correspondent of the Daily Telegraph was,
therefore, obliged to submit to the common lot, resolving to protest later, and obtain satisfaction
for such treatment. But the journey was not the less disagreeable to him, for his wound caused
him much pain, and without Alcide Jolivet's assistance he might never have reached the camp.

Jolivet, whose practical philosophy never abandoned him, had physically and morally strengthened
his companion by every means in his power. His first care, when they found themselves definitely
established in the enclosure, was to examine Blount's wound. Having managed carefully to draw
off his coat, he found that the shoulder had been only grazed by the shot.

"This is nothing," he said. "A mere scratch! After two or three dressings you will be all to
rights."

"But these dressings?" asked Blount.

"I will make them for you myself."

"Then you are something of a doctor?"

"All Frenchmen are something of doctors."

And on this affirmation Alcide, tearing his handkerchief, made lint of one piece, bandages
of the other, took some water from a well dug in the middle of the enclosure, bathed the wound,
and skillfully placed the wet rag on Harry Blount's shoulder.

"I treat you with water," he said. "This liquid is the most efficacious sedative known for
the treatment of wounds, and is the most employed now. Doctors have taken six thousand years
to discover that! Yes, six thousand years in round numbers!"

"I thank you, M. Jolivet," answered Harry, stretching himself on a bed of dry leaves, which
his companion had arranged for him in the shade of a birch tree.

"Bah! it's nothing! You would do as much for me."

"I am not quite so sure," said Blount candidly.

"Nonsense, stupid! All English are generous."

"Doubtless; but the French?"

"Well, the French--they are brutes, if you like! But what redeems them is that they are French.
Say nothing more about that, or rather, say nothing more at all. Rest is absolutely necessary
for you."

