Lavater reporteth a historie of a parish priest in Germanie, that disguised himselfe with a
white sheete about him, and at midnight came into the chamber of a rich woman that was in bed,
and fashioning himself like a spirit, hee thought to put her in such feare, that shee would
procure a conjuror or exorcist to talke with him, or else speake to him herselfe. The woman
desired one of her kinsmen to stay with her in her chamber the next night. This man making
no question whether it were a spirit or not, instead of conjuration or exorcisme, brought a
good cudgell with him, and after hee had well drunke to encrease his courage, knowing his hardinesse
at those times to bee such, that all the divels in hell could not make him affraide, hee lay
downe upon a pallat, and fell asleepe. The spirit came into the chamber againe at his accustomed
houre, and made such a rumbling noyse, that the exorcist (the wine not being yet gone out of
his head) awaked, and leapt out of his bed, and toward the spirit hee goeth, who with counterfeit
words and gesture, thought to make him afraid. But this drunken fellow making no account of
his threatnings, Art thou the divel? quoth he, then I am his damme; and so layeth upon him
with his cudgell, that if the poore priest had not changed his divel's voyce, and confessed
himselfe to be Hauns, and rescued by the woman that then knew him, he had bin like not to have
gone out of the place alive.

This vice of drunkennesse, wherein many take over-great pleasure, was a great blemish to Alexander's
virtues. For having won a great part of Asia, he laid aside that sobrietie hee brought forth
of Macedon, and gave himselfe to the luxuriousenesse of those people whom he had conquered.

That King, Cambyses, tooke over-great plaasure in drinking of wine; and when he asked Prexaspes,
his secretary, what the Persians said of him, he answered, that they commended him highly,
notwithstanding they thought him over-much given to wine, the king being therewith very angry,
caused Prexaspes' sonne to stand before him, and taking his bow in his hand, Now (quoth he)
if I strike thy son's heart, it will then appeare that I am not drunk, but that the Persians
doe lye; but if I misse his heart, they may be believed. And when he had shot at his son, and
found his arrow had pierced his heart, he was very glad; and told him that he had proved the
Persians to be lyars.

Fliolmus, king of the Gothes, was so addicted to drinking, that hee would sit a great part
of the night quaffing and carousing with his servants. And as on a time he sate after his accustomed
and beastly manner carousing with them, his servants being as drunke as he, threw the king,
in sport, into a great vessell full of drinke, that was set in the middist of the hall for
their quaffing, where he ridiculously and miserably ended his life.

Cineas being ambassador to Pyrrhus, as he arrived in Egypt, and saw the exceeding height of
the vines of that country, considering with himselfe how much evill that fruit brought forth
to men, sayd, that such a mother deserved justly to be hanged so high, seeing she did beare
so dangerous a child as wine was. Plato considering the hurt that wine did to men, sayd, that
the gods sent wine downe hither, partly for a punishment of their sinnes, that when they are
drunke, one might kill another.

Paulus Diacrius reporteth a monstrous kinde of quaffing, between foure old men at a banquet,
which they made of purpose. Their challenge was, two to two, and he that dranke to his companion
must drinke so many times as hee had yeares; the youngest of the foure was eight and fiftie
yeares old; the second three-score and three; the third four-score and seven; the fourth four-score
and twelve; so that he which dranke least, dranke eight-and-fifty bowles full of wine, and
so consequently, according to their yeares, whereof one dranke four-score and twelve bowles.

The old Romanes, when they were disposed to quaff lustily, would drinke so many carouses as
there were letters in the names of their mistresses, or lovers; so easily were they overcome
with this vice, who by their virtue some other time, became masters of the world; but these
devices are peradventure stale now; there be finer devices to provoke drunkennesse.

In the time of Antonius Pius, the people of Rome being given to drinke without measure, he
commanded that none should presume to sell wine but in apothecaries' shops, for the sicke or
diseased.

Cyrus, of a contrary disposition to the gluttons and carousers, in his youth gave notable signes
and afterward like examples of sobrietie and frugalitie, when he was monarch of the Persians.
For, being demanded when he was but a boy, of his grandfather, Astyages, why he would drink
no wine, because, said hee, I observed yesterday when you celebrated the feast of your nativitie,
so strange a thing, that it could not be but that som man had put poison into all the wine
that ye drank; for at the taking up of the table, there was not one man in his right minde.
By this it appeareth, how rare a matter it was then to drinke wine, and a thing to be wondered
at to see men drunke. For when the use of wine was first found out, it was taken for a thing
medicinable, and not used for a common drinke, and was to be found rather in apothecaries'
shops than in tavernes. What a great difference there was betweene the frugalitie of the former
ages and the luxuriousnesse of these latter dayes, these few examples will shew. This Cyrus,
as hee marched with his army, one asking him what he would have provided for his supper, hee
answered, bread; for I hope, sayth hee, wee shall find a fountain to serve us of drinke. When
Plato had beene in Sicilia, being asked what new or strange thing hee had seene; I have seene,
sayth hee, a monster of nature, that eateth twice a day. For Dionysius whom he meant, first
brought the custome into that country. For it was the use among the Hebrewes, the Grecians,
the Romanes, and other nations, to eat but once a day. But now many would thinke they should
in a short time be halfe famished, if they should eat but twice a day; nay, rather whole dayes
and nights bee scant sufficient for many to continue eating and quaffing. Wee may say with
the poet--

  Tempora mutantur et nos mutamur in illis.
  The times are changed and we are changed in them.

By the historie of the swine (which by the permission of God, were vexed by the divell) we
be secretly admonished that they which spend their lives in pleasures and deliciousnesse, such
belly-gods as the world hath many in these daies, that live like swine, shall one day be made
a prey for the divell; for seeing they will not be the temple of God, and the house of the
Holy Ghost, they must of necessitie be the habitation of the divell. Such swine, sayth one,
be they that make their paradise in this world, and that dissemble their vices, lest they should
bee deprived of their worldly goods.

       *       *       *       *       *

OLD POETS

       *       *       *       *       *

