"Is that what the nuns have taught you?" asked her mother, with a keen glance at the girl's
flushing cheek. "Well, in one sense it is true. Love is a beautiful thing to look at--an angel
to outward show--with the heart, too often, of a fiend; and it is he who leads us to that precipice
of which I spoke--the precipice of disillusion and despair."

To Lesley these words were as blasphemy, for they contradicted the whole spirit of the teaching
which she had received. But she did not dare to contradict her mother's opinions. She looked
down, and reflected dumbly that her mother knew more about the subject than she could possibly
do. The good Sisters had talked to her about heavenly love; she had made no fine distinctions
in her mind as to the kind of love they meant--possibly there were two kinds. And while she
was considering this knotty point, her mother began to speak again.

"I was between eighteen and nineteen," said Lady Alice, "scarcely as old as you are now, when
a new interest came into my life. My father gave permission to a young literary man to examine
our archives, which contained much of historical value. He never thought of cautioning me to
leave the library to Mr. Brooke's sole occupation. I was accustomed to spend much of my time
there: and the stranger--Mr. Brooke--must have heard this fact from the servants, for he begged
that he might not disturb me, and that I would frequent the library as usual. After a little
hesitation, I began to do so. My father was in London, and my only chaperon was an old lady
who was too infirm to be of much use. Before long, I began to help Mr. Brooke in his researches
and inquiries. He was writing a book on the great Scottish families of that part of the country,
and the subject interested me. Need I tell you what followed, Lesley? Need I explain to you
the heedless selfish folly of that time? I forgot my duty to my father, my duty to myself.
I fancied I loved this man, and I promised to marry him."

There was a light of interest in Lesley's eyes. She did not altogether understand her mother's
tone. It sounded as though Lady Alice condemned lovers and all their ways, and such condemnation
puzzled the girl, in spite of her convent breeding. During the last few months she had been
allowed a much wider range of literature than was usual in the Sisters' domain; her mother
had requested that she should be supplied with certain volumes of history, fiction, and poetry,
that had considerably enlarged Lesley's views of life; and yet Lady Alice's words seemed to
contradict all that the girl had previously heard or read of love. The mother read the unspoken
question in Lesley's eyes, and answered it in a somewhat modified tone.

"My dear, I do not mean that I think it wrong to love. So long as the world lasts I suppose
people will love--and be miserable. It is right enough, if it is opposed by no other law. But
in my case, I was wrong from beginning to end. I knew that my father would never give his permission
to my marriage with Mr. Brooke; and, in my youthful folly, I thought that my best plan was
to take my own way. I married Mr. Brooke in private, and then I went away with him to London.
And it was not long, Lesley, before I rued my disobedience and my deceit. It was a great mistake."

"But mamma, why were you so sure that grandpapa would not give his consent?"

Lady Alice opened her gentle eyes with a look of profound astonishment.

"Darling, don't you see? Mr. Brooke was--nobody."

"But if you loved him----"

"No, Lesley, your grandfather would never have heard of such a marriage. He had his own plans
for me. My dear, I am not saying a word against your father in saying this. I am only telling
you the fact--that he was what is often called a self-made, self-educated man, who could not
possibly be styled my equal in the eyes of society. His father had been a small tradesman in
Devonshire. The son being clever and--and--handsome, made his way a little in the world. He
became a journalist: he wrote for magazines and newspapers and reviews: he was what is called
a literary hack. He had no certain prospects, no certain income, when he married me. I think,"
said Lady Alice, with a sort of cold scorn, which was intensified by the very softness of her
tones, "that he could not have done a more unjustifiable thing than persuade a girl in my position
to marry him."

Lesley felt a slight diminution of sympathy with her mother. Perhaps Lady Alice was conscious
of some change in her face, for she added hastily.

"Don't misjudge me, Lesley. If there had been between us the strong and tender love of which
women too often dream, poverty might perhaps have been forgotten. It sounds terribly worldly
to draw attention to the fact that poverty is apt to kill a love which was not very strong
at the beginning. But the fact was that neither Caspar Brooke nor I knew our own minds. He
was three-and-twenty and I was eighteen. We married in haste, and we certainly repented very
much at leisure."

"Was he not--kind?" asked Lesley, timidly.

"Kind?" said her mother, with a sigh. "Oh, yes, perhaps he was kind--at first. Until he was
tired of me, or I was tired of him. I don't know on which side the disillusion was felt first.
Think where I came from--from the dear old Castle, the moors, the lochs, the free fresh air
of Scotland, to a dreary lodging of two little rooms in a dingy street, where I had to cut
and contrive and economize to make ends meet. I was an ignorant girl, and I could not do it.
I got into debt, and my husband was angry with me. Why should I tell you the petty, sordid
details of my life? I soon found out that I was miserable and that he was miserable too."

Lesley listened breathlessly with hidden face. The story was full of humiliation for her. It
seemed like a desecration of all that she had hitherto held dear.

"My father and my friends would not forgive me," Lady Alice went on. "In our direst straits
of poverty, I am glad to say that I never appealed to them. We struggled on together--your
father and I--until you were four years old. Then a change came--a change which made it impossible
for me to bear the misery of my life. Your father----"

She came to a sudden stop, and sat with eyes fixed on the opposite wall, a curious expression
of mingled desolation and contempt upon her cold, clear-cut face. For some reason or other
Lesley felt afraid to hear what her mother had to say.

"Mamma, don't tell me! Don't look like that," she cried. "I can't bear to hear it! Why need
you tell me any more?"

"Because," said her mother, slowly, "because your father exacts this sacrifice from me: that
I should tell you--you, my daughter--the reason why I left him. I promised that I would do
so, and I will keep my promise. The thing that hurts me most, Lesley, is to think that I may
be injuring you--staining your innocence--darkening your youth--by telling you what I have
to tell. At your age, I would rather that you knew nothing of life but its brighter side--nothing
of love but what was fair and sweet. But it is the punishment of my first false step that I
should bring sorrow upon my child. Lesley, in years to come remember that I have warned you
to be honest and true, unless you would make those miserable whom you love best. If I had never
deceived my father, my husband would never perhaps have deceived me; and I should not have
to tell my child that the last person in the world whom she must trust is her father."

There was a little silence, and then she continued in a strained and unnatural tone.

"There was a woman--another woman--whom he loved. That is all."

Lesley shivered and hid her face. To her mind, young and innocent as it was, the fact which
her mother stated seemed like an indelible stain. She hardly dared as yet think what it meant.
And, after a long pause, Lady Alice went on quietly--

"I do not want to exaggerate. I do not believe that he meant to leave me--even to be untrue
to me. I could not speak to you of him if I thought him so black-hearted, so treacherous. I
mean simply this--take the fact as I state it, and inquire no further; I found that my husband
cared for some one else more than he cared for me. My resolution was taken at once: I packed
up my things, left his house, and threw myself at my father's feet. He was good to me and forgave
me, and since then ... I have never entered my husband's house again."

"He must have been wicked--wicked!" said Lesley, in a strangled voice.

"No, he was not wicked. Let me do him so much justice. He was upright on the whole, I believe.
He never meant to give me cause for complaint. But I had reason to believe that another woman
suited him better than I did ... and it was only fair to leave him."

"But did he--could he--marry her? I mean----"

"My poor Lesley, you are very ignorant," said Lady Alice, smiling a wan smile, and touching
the girl's cheek lightly with her hand. "How could he marry another woman when I was alive?
Your father and I separated on account of what is called incompatibility of temper. The question
of the person whom he apparently preferred to me never arose between us."

"Then, is it not possible, mamma, that you may have been mistaken?" said Lesley, impetuously.

Lady Alice shook her head. "Quite impossible, Lesley. I accuse your father of nothing. I only
mean that another woman--one of his friends--would have suited him better than I, and that
he knew it. I have no cause for complaint against him. And I would not have told you this,
had I not felt it a duty to put in the strongest possible light my reasons for leaving him,
so that a day may never come when you turn round upon me and blame me--as others have done--for
fickleness, for ill-temper, for impatience with my husband; because now you know--as no one
else knows--the whole truth."

"But I should never blame you, mamma."

"I do not know. I know this--that your father is a man who can persuade and argue and represent
his conduct in any light that suits his purpose. He is a very eloquent--a very plausible man.
He will try to win you over to his side."

"But I shall never see him."

"Yes, Lesley, you will. You are going to him to-morrow."

"I will not--I will not"--said the girl, springing from her knees, and involuntarily clenching
her right hand. "I will not speak to him--if he treated my darling mother so shamefully he
must be bad, and I will not acknowledge any relationship to him."

A look of apprehension showed itself in Lady Alice's eyes.

"Darling," she said, "you must not let your generous love for me run away with your judgment.
I am bound, and you must be bound with me. Listen, when your father found that I had left him
he was exceedingly angry. He came to your grandfather's house, he clamored to see me, he attempted
to justify himself--oh, I cannot tell you the misery that I went through. At last I consented
to see him. He behaved like a madman. He swore that he would have me back--tyrant that he was!"

"Mamma--perhaps he cared?"

"Cared! He cared for his reputation," said Lady Alice growing rather white about the lips.
"For nothing else! Not for me, Lesley! When his violence had expended itself we came to terms.
He agreed to let me live where I liked on condition that when you were eight years old you
were sent to school, and saw me only during the holidays----"

"But why?"

"He said that he dreaded my influence on your mind," said Lady Alice. "That you should be brought
up at a good school was the first thing. Secondly, that when you were nineteen you should spend
a year with him, and then a year with me; and that when you were twenty-one you should choose
for yourself with which of the two you preferred to cast in your lot."

"Oh, mamma, I cannot go to him now."

"You must go, Lesley. I am bound, and you are bound by my promise. Only for a year, my darling.
Then you can come back to me for ever. I stipulated that I should see you first, and say to
you what I chose."

"But cannot I wait a little while?"

"Twenty-four hours, Lesley; that is all. You go to your father to-morrow."

CHAPTER III.

MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.

The conversation between Lesley and her mother occupied a considerable time, and the sun was
sinking westward when at last the two ladies left the Convent. Lesley's adieux had been made
before Lady Alice's arrival, and the only persons whom she saw, therefore, after the long interview
with her mother, were the Mother Superior, and the Sister who had summoned her to the parlor.

While Lady Alice and the Reverend Mother exchanged a few last words, Lesley drew close to Sister
Rose's side, and laid her hand on the serge-covered arm.

"You were right," she said. "Sister, I see already that I shall need patience and endurance
where I am going."

"Gentleness and love, also," said the Sister. Then, as if in answer to an indefinable change
in Lesley's lips and eyes, she added gently, "We are told that peacemakers are blessed."

"I could not make peace----" Lesley began, hastily, and then she stopped short, confused, not
knowing how much Sister Rose had heard of her mother's story. But if Sister Rose were ignorant
of it, her next words were singularly appropriate. For she said, in a low tone--

"Peace is better than war: forgiveness better than hatred. Dear child, it may be in your hands
to reconcile those who have been long divided. Do your best."

Lesley had no time to reply.

It was a long drive from the Convent of the Annonciades to the hotel where Lord Courtleroy
and Lady Alice were staying. The mother and daughter spoke little; each seemed wrapped in her
own reflections. There were a hundred questions which Lesley was longing to ask; but she did
not like to disturb her mother's silence. Dusk had fallen before their destination was reached;
and Lesley's thoughts were diverted a little from their sad bewilderment by what was to her
the novel sight of Paris by gaslight, and the ever-flowing, opposing currents of human beings
that filled the streets. Hitherto, when she had left the Sisters for her holidays, her mother
had wisely kept her within certain bounds: she had not gone out of doors after dark, she had
not seen anything but the quieter sides of life. But now all seemed to be changed. Her mother
mentioned the name of the best hotel in Paris as their destination: she said a few words about
shopping, dresses, and jewellery, which made Lesley's heart beat faster, in spite of a conviction
that it was very mean and base to feel any joy in such trivial matters. Especially under present
circumstances. But she was young and full of life; and there certainly was some excitement
in the prospect before her.

"I shall not need much where I am going, shall I?" she hazarded timidly.

"Perhaps not, but you must not be in any difficulty. There is not time to do a great deal,
but you can be fitted and have some dresses sent after you, and I can choose your hats. And
a fur-lined cloak for travelling--you will want that. We must do what we can in the time. It
is not likely that your father sees much society."

"It will be very lonely," said Lesley, with a little gasp.

"My poor child! I am afraid it will. I can tell some friends of mine to call on you; but I
don't know whether they will be admitted."

"Where is--the house?" Lesley asked. She did not like to say "my father's house."

"In Upper Woburn Place, Bloomsbury. I believe it is near Euston Square, or some such neighborhood."

"Then it is not where you lived, mamma?"

"No, dear. We lived further West, in a street near Portman Square. I believe that Mr. Brooke
finds Bloomsbury a convenient district for the kind of work that he has to do."

She spoke very formally of her husband; but Lesley began to notice an under-current of resentment,
of something like contempt, in her voice when she spoke of him. Lady Alice tried in vain to
simulate an indifference which she did not feel, and the very effort roughened her voice and
sharpened her accent in a way of which she was unconscious. The effect on a young girl, who
had not seen much of human emotion, was to induce a passing doubt of her mother's judgment,
and a transient wonder as to whether her father had always been so much in the wrong. The sensation
was but momentary, for Lesley was devotedly attached to her mother, and could not believe her
to be mistaken. And, while she was repenting of her hasty injustice, the carriage stopped between
the white globes of electric light that fronted a great hotel, and Lesley was obliged to give
her attention to the things around her rather than to her own thoughts and feelings.

A waiter conducted the mother and daughter up one flight of stairs and consigned them to the
care of a chambermaid. The chambermaid led them to the door of a suite of rooms, where they
were met by Dayman, Lady Alice's own woman, whose stolid face relaxed into a smile of pleasure
at the sight of Lesley.

"Take Miss Brooke to her own room and see that she is made nice for dinner," said her mistress.
"His Lordship has ordered dinner in our own rooms, I suppose?"

"Yes, my lady. Covers for four--Captain Duchesne is here."

"Oh," said Lady Alice, with an accent of faint surprise, "oh--well--Lesley, dear, we must not
be late."

To Lesley it seemed hardly worth while to unpack her boxes and dress herself for that one evening
in the soft embroidered white muslin which had hitherto served for her best Sunday frock. But
Mrs. Dayman insisted on a careful toilette, and was well satisfied with the result.

"There, Miss Lesley," she said, "you have just your mamma's look--a sort of finished look,
as if you were perfect outside and in!"

Lesley laughed. "That compliment might be taken in two ways, Dayman," she said, as she turned
to meet her mother at the door. And in a few minutes she was standing in the gay little French
salon, where the earl was conversing with a much younger man in a glare of waxlights.

Lord Courtleroy was a stately-looking man, with perfectly snow-white hair and beard, an upright
carriage, and bright, piercing, blue eyes. A striking man in appearance, and of exceedingly
well-marked characteristics. The family pride for which he had long been noted seemed to show
itself in his bearing and in every feature as he greeted his granddaughter, and yet it was
softened by a touch of personal affection with which family pride had nothing whatever to do.
For Lord Courtleroy's feelings towards Lesley were mixed. He saw in her the child of a man
whose very name he detested, who stood as a type to him of all that was hateful in the bourgeois
class. But he also saw in her his own granddaughter, "poor Alice's girl," whom fate had used
so unkindly in giving her Caspar Brooke for a father. The earl had next to no personal knowledge
of Caspar Brooke. They had not met since the one sad and stormy interview which they had held
together when Lady Alice had left her husband's house. And Lord Courtleroy was wont to declare
that he did not wish to know anything more of Mr. Brooke. That he was a Radical journalist,
and that he had treated a daughter of the Courtleroys with shameful unkindness and neglect,
was quite enough for the earl. And his manner to Lesley varied a little according as his sense
of her affinity with his own family or his remembrance of her kinship with Mr. Brooke was uppermost.

