Two great objections were advanced by the opponents of the proposed innovation, which are most
emphatically answered by the Report of the Committee of 1834. Even in 1831, the Committee reported
as follows:--

"It has frequently been urged against these carriages, that wherever they may be introduced,
they must effectually prevent all other travelling on the road, as no horse will bear the noise
and smoke of the engine. The Committee believe that these statements are unfounded. Whatever
noise may be complained of, arises from the present defective construction of the machinery,
and will be corrected as the makers of such carriages gain greater experience. Admitting even
that the present engines do work with some degree of noise, the effect on horses has been greatly
exaggerated. All the witnesses accustomed to travel in these carriages, even in the crowded
roads adjacent to the metropolis, have stated, that horses are very seldom frightened in passing."

But in 1834, the report is still more conclusive on this point. Mr Macneil, a distinguished
civil engineer, gives the following evidence:--

"At the time the Committee sat in 1831, I could speak as to having seen only one steam-carriage
on a turnpike road, and as to the effect on horses that passed it on the road. From considerable
experience since that time, I am quite certain, that in a very short period there will be no
complaint of horses being frightened by steam-carriages. I do not know that I have seen more
than two or three horses in all my experience, that were at all frightened by any of the carriages.
I travelled with, and I have passed many times through some of the most crowded streets in
London and in Birmingham, in steam-carriages. I have also seen horses out in the morning, led
by grooms, which would in all probability be startled by any object at all likely to frighten
a horse, and they did not take the least notice of the engine. At another time, several ladies
passed on horseback without the least alarm, and some of them rode close after the carriage,
and alongside of it, as long as they could keep up with it."

This evidence is corroborated by all the other witnesses; and great as the noise, and fearful
as the horrid gasping of the engine may be, we are not prepared to say that terror may not
as naturally be excited in the heart of the most gallant of Houyeneans by the thunder and glitter
of a fast coach, rushing downhill at the rate of sixteen miles an hour. In fact, the horse
that has ceased--like a young lady after her second season--to be shy, will care no more for
a steam-engine than a tilted waggon. And it is decidedly our private and confidential opinion,
from a long experience of vivacious roadsters, that a quadruped which maintains its equanimity
on encountering a baker's cart with an awning, will face the noisiest and most vociferous of
boilers. But granting that the committee is right in coming to this conclusion as far as regards
the danger arising to horses, the other objection we alluded to was a poser, from which we
shall be glad to see how they extricate themselves--we mean the injury done to the turnpike
road. Why, it turns out that a steam-coach does no injury at all; but, from the necessity it
is under to sport the widest and strongest of wheels, it acts as a sort of roller, and might
pass for a deputy Macadam. Mr Macneil, who has had great experience in road surveying, says
that, even in 1831, he had stated that, from the examination he had made as to the wear of
iron in the shoes of horses, compared with the wear on the tire of the wheels of carriages,
the injury done to the turnpike roads would be much less by steam-carriages than that done
by mail and stage coaches drawn by horses. Since then, "I have had practical experience on
this point, and have carefully examined the roads in different parts of the country where steam-carriages
have been running, and I have every reason to believe the opinion I then gave was correct;
indeed, I have not the least doubt in my mind, that if steam-carriages ran generally on the
turnpike roads of the kingdom, one-half of the annual expense of the repairs of these roads
would be saved."

It is supposed that the tolls throughout England are let for more than a million and a half
a-year! A saving of one half in this enormous amount would fructify in the pockets (now remarkably
in need of some process of the kind) of the public, to the entire satisfaction of Rebecca and
all her daughters. And yet with this evidence, of perhaps the best practical authority on the
subject, before their eyes, let us see what the wiseacres of certain rural districts did to
encourage economy and inland transit. By means of a tremendous instrument of tyranny called
a local act, (for which the Grand Sultan would be very glad to exchange his firman,) the road
trustees of various neighbourhoods have laid an embargo on all steam carriages, by enacting
intolerable payments. Thus on the Liverpool and Prescot road, a steam-carriage would be charged
£.2, 8s.; while a loaded stage-coach would pay only four shillings! On the Bathgate road the
same carriage would be charged £.1, 7s. 1d.; while a coach drawn by four horses would pay five
shillings. On the Ashburnham and Totness road, steam would pay £.2; and a four-horse coach
three shillings. And how did these sages settle the rates of payment? The reader would never
guess, so we will tell him at once-they charged for each horse power as if the boiler contained
a whole stud, all trampling the road to atoms with iron shoes; whereas they ought have let
the broad-wheeled carriage go free, if, indeed, they were not called on to pay it a certain
sum each journey for the benefit it did the highway.

Such was the evidence that led the committee to decide, in 1834, on the practicability, the
safety, and economy of running steam-carriages on common roads. It will be sufficient to give
a list of the witnesses examined, to show that the highest authorities were consulted before
the report was framed. They were--

   Mr Goldsworthy Gurney.
      Walter Hancock.
      John Farey, civil engineer.
      Richard Trevethick.
      Davies Gilbert, M.P., president of the Royal Society.
      Nathanael Ogle.
      Alexander Gordon, civil engineer.
      Joseph Gibbs.
      Thomas Telford, president of the Institution of Civil Engineers.
      William A. Summers.
      James Stone.
      James Macadam, road surveyor.
      John Macneil, civil engineer, and
      Colonel Torrens, M.P.

Since the date of the last Report railways have run their titanic course; and whether from
the opposition of wise road trustees, or a want of enterprise in steam-carriage proprietors,
or from some other cause, steam locomotion on common roads has not made any progress. But,
in spite of the powerful evidence we have quoted, we cannot conceal from ourselves that there
was always an if or a but attached to the complete triumph of the new system. The if and the
but, it will be seen, had reference to the nature of the road. Mr Macneil and the other able
and scientific gentlemen examined, all concurred in calling for a vast improvement on the highways
to be travelled on--"a smooth and well-dressed pavement"--"a hard pavement"--"a smooth pavement
on a solid foundation"--they all agree in thinking indispensable to the complete triumph of
steam. "If on the road," says Mr Macneil, "from London to Birmingham, there were a portion
laid off on the side of the road for steam carriages, and if it be made in a solid manner,
with pitching and well-broken granite, it would fall very little short of a railroad. It would
be easy to fence it off from fifteen to twenty feet without injury to property." And a statement
to the same effect was made in November 1833, to which the following names are appended:--

  Thomas Telford, P.I.C.E.
  John Rickman, commissioner for Highland roads and bridges.
  C.W. Pasley, colonel royal engineers.
  Bryan Donkin, manufacturing engineer.
  T. Bramah, civil engineer.
  James Simpson, manufacturing engineer.
  John Thomas, civil engineer.
  Joshua Field, manufacturing engineer.
  John Macneil, civil engineer.
  Alexander Gordon, civil engineer.
  William Carpmael, civil engineer.

"There can be no doubt," say they, "that a well-constructed engine, a steam-carriage conveyance
between London and Birmingham, at a velocity unattainable by horses, and limited only by safety,
may be maintained; and it is our conviction that such a project might be undertaken with great
advantage to the public, more particularly if, as might obviously be the case, without interfering
with the general use of the road, a portion of it were to be prepared and kept in a state most
suitable for travelling in locomotive steam-carriages."

But in this is the whole difficulty as far as regards the best granite road; for, supposing
for a moment that all the other conditions were fulfilled--that it was hard and smooth--one
great element is to be taken into consideration, from which no skill and science can exempt
the best and firmest Macadam; and that is the effect of atmospheric changes on the surface
of the road. The difference of tractive power in summer and winter must be immense, and the
great disadvantage of mechanical, as compared with animal draught, is its want of adaptability
to the exigencies of an ordinary road. A steam-carriage of ten horse power cannot under any
circumstances, when it encounters a newly mended part of the road, or a softer soil, put forth
an additional power for a minute or two, as a team of horses can do; so that equality of exertion
is nearly indispensable for the full advantage of an engine. We accordingly find that the opponents
of steam-travelling on common roads, gained their object by covering the highway with a coating
of broken stones fourteen inches deep. Through this it was impossible to force the coach without
such a strain as to displace or otherwise injure the machinery. But when a system of locomotion,
containing so many advantages, has so nearly been brought to perfection, in spite of the many
difficulties presented by the common modes of making a road, it would be inconceivable blindness
in the parties interested in the subject to overlook the certain mode of success offered to
them, by merely laying down a portion of the road in wood. Who those parties are we have already
pointed out. They are the inhabitants and owners of property in towns and neighbourhoods at
some distance from railway traffic; and if the proprietors of great lines of railway saw their
own interest, they would be foremost in adopting the new method as an auxiliary, and not view
it as a rival or an enemy. For it is very evident that nothing can be so beneficial to a railway
already in operation as a branch line, by which a hitherto unopened district can be united
to their stations. And the difference of expense between the two systems--namely, between an
iron railway and a wooden pavement--is so great, that the latter is scarcely beyond the power
of the poorest neighbourhood. An iron branch was at one time proposed between Steventon and
Oxford. The same sum which would have been required for this purpose, according to the estimates,
would have laid down an excellent road in wood from Steventon through Oxford to Rugby; thus
connecting the three great arteries of the country--the Great Western, the Birmingham, and
the Midland Counties Railways. It will be found that the great lines of railway have been forced,
at an unavoidable and foreseen loss, to spread out minor or tributary lines, which, if the
system of wood-paving had been in existence, might have been laid down at less than a third
of the expense, and producing a proportionate profit. This view of the case has not been altogether
neglected, for it has been dwelt on at some length in an able pamphlet on "the Use of Mechanical
Power in Draught on Turnpike Roads, with reference to the new system of Wood Paving." It is
evidently the work of a practical man, who has deeply studied the subject. "No part of the
community," he says, "are likely to benefit so largely by the introduction of the new system
as the holders of railway shares. For though, in all probability, the railroads would not have
been constructed to their present extent had the virtues of wood paving been earlier known,
yet it would be absurd to contend that the wooden road will ever be able to compete with the
existing iron lines. The new principle, however, may be most usefully adopted by the railway
companies themselves, in the formation of branches or tributary roads, the completion of which
has hitherto entailed on them enormous expense unattended by corresponding benefits. The proposed
system, at all events, is worth a trial by many other towns besides the one chosen for illustration
by the author of the pamphlet. He fixes on Shrewsbury, a place already on the decline, and
not likely to recover its former prosperity, unless it can establish steam communication with
the great lines of railway at Wolverhampton. "But capitalists," he adds, "who see the small
amount of dividend paid to their shareholders by the minor railways, can no longer be induced
to embark their money in similar undertakings. Let a portion, however, of the noble, but now
half-deserted, Holyhead road be paved with wood, and for a comparatively trifling cost of less
than £.50,000, in six months from the present time steamers could be enabled to run along the
entire line with safety, infinitely greater than, and speed almost equal to, that on the Birmingham
Railway."

We feel sure that these considerations need only to be stated to have their due weight, and
we shall be greatly surprised if an effort is not soon made to avoid the ruin impending over
so many towns. Among others, the beautiful town of Salisbury should take an interest in this
matter; for what can be more evident that she will fall rapidly to decay, if she cannot establish
a steam communication with Southampton on one side, and Bath and Bristol on the other. Salisbury,
above all other places, ought to know the value of a good road; for she has the fate of her
elder sister Sarum before her eyes. Decay--disfranchisement--contempt will assuredly be her
lot, if she allows herself to be treated in the same way as the venerable Sarum was in the
days of her youth--for do not the antiquaries tell us what was the cause of Sarum's fall? It
has, in fact, become so notorious, that it has even got into Topographical Dictionaries. "About
this time," the reign of Edward the First, "Bishop Bridport built a bridge at Harnham, and
thus changing the direction of the Great Western Road, which formerly passed through Old Sarum,
that place was completely deserted, and Salisbury became one of the most flourishing cities
of the kingdom."

The same will be recorded of her by future chroniclers, if she do not seize this opportunity
of retrieving her possession of "the Great Western Road." "In the reign of Queen Victoria,
a railroad being established at some distance from Salisbury, and the traffic being thus diverted
from it, which once formed the great source of its prosperity, it became completely deserted;
Shaftesbury, Sturminster, and Sherborne, shared in her ruin; and Swindon became one of the
most flourishing places in the kingdom." We cannot think so meanly of our countrymen, as to
suppose that they will yield like white-livered cravens, and die without a struggle; and in
thus raising the voice of Maga to warn them of their danger, and instruct them how to avoid
it, we consider that we are doing the state some service, and pointing out new means profitable
employment for the capital of the rich, and the labour of the poor.

       *       *       *       *       *

COMMERCIAL POLICY--SHIPS, COLONIES, AND COMMERCE.

Who, standing on the shore, has not seen, as the gale freshened into storm and swelled into
the hurricane, the waves of the clear green sea gradually lose their brightness, until raking
up from the lowest depths, convulsed with the mighty strife of the elements, the very obscene
dregs and refuse of all matter terreous, or instinct of life, the mounting billows become one
thick and unsightly mass of turbid waters, chafing with all the foam and froth of the unclean
scourings of the deep, rioting in the ascendant? As in the world physical, so is it with the
order of nature in the world moral and political. As the social horizon becomes troubled, as
reform careers on to revolution, the empire of mind is overwhelmed--the brute matter and fiercer
spirits of the masses ascend, and ride the tempest political more triumphantly as incipient
confusion thickens into confirmed chaos.

The bad eminence popularly of men so devoid of all principle and integrity, so strangely uncouth
and assorted, as the Daniel O'Connells, the John M'Hales, and the Feargus O'Connors; of men
so unlearned in all principle, political and economical--so wanting, moreover, in the presence
of the higher order of moral sentiments, as the Cobdens, the Brights, the Rory O'Mores, the
Aucklands, and Sydney (he of the League) Smiths, is among the worst symptoms of the diseased
times upon which the country has fallen. It recalls forcibly to mind, it reproduces the opening
scenes and the progress, the men and the machinery, of the first French Revolution, the precursor
of so many more, upon the last act of the last fashioned melodrama of which the curtain has
not yet probably descended. How then the meaner spirits succeeded in the whirlwind of change,
to the mightier minds which first conjured and hoped to control it; how the Mirabeaux, the
Lally Tollendals, the Mouniers of the Assembly, were replaced and popularly displaced by the
sophists and intriguers of the Gironde and the Constituent; how, in the Convention and the
hall of the Jacobins, the coarser men of the whole movement--the Dantons, the Robespierres,
the Marats, the facetious as ferocious Bareres, the stupid Anacharsis Clootzes--trampled under
foot, or finished with the guillotine, the phraseurs and meneurs of the Gironde, your orators
of set speech, glittering abstractions, and hair-splitting definitions; the Brissots, Vergniauds,
Condorcets, and Rolands, who could degrade, dethrone, and condemn a king to perpetual imprisonment,
but were just too dainty of conscience to go the whole hog of murder. As history, like an old
almanack, does but repeat itself within a given cycle of years, so the same round, cast, and
change of characters and characteristics, with all the other paraphernalia of the great drama,
Reform and Revolution, as performed in France, have been, and are in due order enacting and
exhibiting in this country. We have already seen, however, the Greys, Hollands, and Broughams,
the fathers and most eloquent apostles of Reform, dethroned by a clique of large talkers about
great principles, with a comparatively small stock of ideas to do business on, such as Mr appropriation
Ward, the Tom Duncombes, Villierses, &c., men vastly inferior in talents and attainments, after
all, to the Gironde, of whom they are the imitatores servum pecus; whilst these again "give
place" on the pressure from without of the one-idea endowed tribe of Repealers of Unions and
Corn-Laws--the practical men of the Mountain genus--the O'Connells, Cobdens, and Brights, who,
not yet so fierce as their predecessors of the Robespierre and Clootz dynasty, are so far content
with patronising the "strap and billy roller" in factories, instead of carting aristocrats
to the guillotine, which may come hereafter, if, as they say, appetites grow with what they
feed on. For it is a fact recorded in history, that Robespierre himself was naturally a man
of mild temperament and humane disposition, converted into a sanguinary monster, as some wild
beasts are, with the first taste of human blood. Anacharsis Clootz, his coadjutor, the celebrated
"orator of the human race," in his day, was at least a free trader as thorough-going, as eminently
eloquent and popular a leader, as Mr Cobden himself.

On the present occasion, our business chiefly lies with the gentleman known as Mr Alderman
Richard Cobden, M.P. for the borough of Stockport, one of the first samples sent up of municipal
and representative reform achievement. Mr Cobden is an example of successful industry when
translated to a proper sphere of action. Fortunate in the maternal relationship of a Manchester
warehouseman, domiciliated in the classic regions of cotton and Cheapside, he was taken as
an "odd lad" into the establishment. In process of time he was advanced to the more honourable
grade of traveller, in days of yore styled "bagman," to the concern. Somewhere about 1825 or
1826, we find him transplanted to Manchester, in partnership with two other persons of the
same craft and trading position, where they enjoyed the patronage of the late Mr Richard Fort,
an extensive calico-printer, at, and in his latter years member for, the borough of Clitheroe
in the north of Lancashire. He leased to them one of his print-works near Chorley, and such,
it is understood, was the success of the trio, that when, after a partnership of some thirteen
or fourteen years, they separated, the division of fairly won spoil accruing to each was not
less than £.30,000. Within the space of fourteen years say, industry had created out of nothing
the incredible sum of £.90,000. During his travels, like Jemmy the sandman, for orders, Mr
Cobden became initiated into the science of "spouting;" he became the oracle and orator of
bars and travellers' rooms; the observed of all observers, from the gentlemen of the road down
to waiters, barmaids, and boots. The roadsters of his, as of these days, were no longer, however,
of the same high-toned class as that of the "bagmen" in times gone by. Tradition tells now
only of the splendid turns-out, the dinner-table luxury, the educated commercial polish, the
"feast of reason and the flow of soul" enjoyment, of a race defunct; the degenerate crew of
Cobden's association, with wages cut down to short common commissions, dined not at home; tea
and turn-in, with a sleeping draught of whisky toddy, were the staples of mine host's bill.
Such is briefly the report of the rise and progress of Mr Cobden in the world, as we have it
from quarters entitled to regard; various exaggerated statements about his hundreds of thousands
acquired, are afloat as usual in cases where men spring from nothing; his trading career has
been sufficiently prosperous and extraordinary, not to be rendered incredible by ridiculous
inventions of friends or foes. About the locale of his birth and residence, of his origin and
antecedents, Mr Cobden himself ever maintains a guarded silence, as if, with aristocratical
airs growing with his fortunes, he were ashamed, and would cast the slough of family poverty
and plebeianship; or perhaps he calculates on leaving the world, Sussex at least, hereafter
to dispute the honours of his paternity like another Homer.

Mr Cobden is but a type, not of the highest cast either, of the manufacturing operatives of
Lancashire. You will find his equal in one at least out of every ten of the adult factory workmen
of Lancashire, whose wits are sharpened by everyday conflict and debate in clubs and publics;
you will often meet his superior in those self-educated classes. We have not unfrequently read
speeches at public meetings by intelligent operatives in Lancashire, which showed a more profound
acquaintance with, and greater powers of development of the rationale of political and economical
philosophy, in single instances, than can be discovered in the mass of harangues poured forth
by Mr Cobden, were the flowers ever so carefully culled and separated from the loads of trashy
weed. His forte consists in a coarse but dauntless intrepidity, with which respectability and
intellect shrink from encounter. The country squire, educated and intelligent, but retiring
and truth-loving, retreats naturally from contest with a bold, abusive, and unscrupulous demagogue;
even the party he serves, holds off from contact and communion with him. He never quails, therefore,
because never matched, unless before Mr Ferrand, the fearless member for Knaresborough--a man
most ill-used, even abandoned by the very party he so signally serves; yet who is never slow,
as occasion offers, to chastise the cur which snarls whilst it crouches before him. The eloquence
of Mr Cobden is of that vulgarly-exciting sort, well adapted to the level of the audiences,
the scum of town populations, to which it is habitually addressed. Without the education of
the late Henry Hunt, he has quite as much capacity and more tact, with the single exception,
that when attempting to soar to the metaphorical he is apt to enact the ludicrous blunders
of Astley's clown aping the affected pomposity of the master; as v.g. in the "demon rising
from the Thames with an Act of Parliament in his hands." Mr Alderman Cobden is, withal, a very
ostentatious declaimer about "great first principles;" but into the nature and the definition
of those principles he is the most abstemious of all men from entering. The subtlety of a principle
escapes the grasp of his intellect; he can deal with it only as a material substance clear
to sight and to touch, like a common calico. Hence he talks about principles and cotton prints
as if they were convertible terms.

Such as he is, Mr Cobden, it cannot be denied, fills for the present a large space in the public
eye; and so he will continue to fill until occult party supports are withdrawn, and, having
served the turn, he is left to the natural operation of the principles of gravitation, and
to sink to the nothingness from which he has been forced up by the political accidents and
agitation of the day. Lamentably astern in economical lore and political knowledge as he is,
and as the want of that educational preparation upon which alone the foundation of knowledge
and of principles can be raised, has left him, Mr Cobden, it must be conceded, turns the old
rags, the cast-off clothes, of other people's crotchets to good account popularly; he succeeds
where others fail, not because he is less ignorant but because he is more fearless. But newly
come into the world, as it may be said, with little learning from books, with understanding
little enlarged by study, and furnished only with those clap-trap generalities, that declamatory
trash, which may be gleaned from reading diligently the Radical weekly papers, Mr Cobden boldly
takes for granted that all which is new to himself must be unknown to the older world about
him. Thus he appropriates, without scruple, because in sheer ignorance, the ideas and discoveries,
such as they are and as they seem to him, of others, his more experienced Radical contemporaries.
He plunders Daniel Hardcastle, in open day, of his banking and currency dogmas; he fleeces
Bowring before his eyes of his one-sided Free Trade and Anti-corn-Law stock in business; nay,
he mounts Joseph Hume's well-known stalking-horse against "ships, colonies, and commerce,"
(colonial,) and forthwith on to the foray. Yet he alone remains unconscious of the spoliations
patent to all the world besides--

    "Where ignorance is bliss 'tis folly to be wise."

He retails the worn-out conceits of others as new and wondrous discoveries of his own genius
and profound meditation; and all with such a simplicity and complacency of self-satisfied conviction,
that you never dream or impugning the good faith with which

    ----"His undoubting mind
    Believed the magic wonders which he sung."

Thus has it been with him specially in the last new case of poaching on the manor of Mr Joseph
Hume, whose game he unhesitatingly appropriates, disguising it only in a sauce of his own flavouring.
After sundry mystical heraldings forth, at various public meetings, of a mighty state secret
for the cure of all state ills, which was labouring for vent in the swelling breast of Mr Alderman
Cobden, M.P., the hour of parturition at length arrived; he was--after the one or two hours'
agonies of a speech delivered in the for ever memorable day of June 22, 1843--delivered of
the mare's nest so miraculously conceived. Here is the bantling bodily, stripped of all the
swaddling-clothes of surplus verbiage in which it was enveloped on entering the world of Westminster--resolved,
"That, in the opinion of this house, it is not expedient that, in addition to the great expense
to which the people of this country are subject for the civil, military, and naval establishments
of the colonies, they should be compelled to pay a higher price for the productions of those
colonies than that at which similar commodities could be procured from other countries, and
that therefore all protective duties in favour of colonial produce ought to be abolished."
Our "colonial system" was denounced by this colonial Draco as "one of unmixed evil; ... there
was no subject upon which there was greater misapprehension than this ... the new facts he
should lay before the house would, no doubt, prove his position." Happy the legislature illumined
with the infusion of Cobden's Bude light; thrice blest the people, both inside and outside
of the house, amongst whom, all alike, "a great deal of misapprehension upon this point prevailed,"
whose darkness was about to be discharged by the same master mind which was, and anon is, busied
in the discharge of Turkey reds from cotton chintzes at Chorley print-works.

We need not remind the public, that the peculiar phrases of that disease with which the mind
of Cobden is so profoundly impregnated, essentially resolve themselves into the moneymania;
the leading characteristic of the mental hallucinations with which the patient is tormented,
consists in the inveterate habit of reducing all argument into arithmetical quantities; of
calculating the value of all truth at some standard rate per pound sterling, of what it might
possibly produce as a matter of trade; of confounding syllogisms with ciphers, and lumbering
all logic into pounds, shillings, and pence. With diagnostics of disease so unmistakably developed,
it would only be exasperation of the symptoms to exhibit remedially in other than the peculiar
form which the patient fancies for the kill-or-cure-all draught; and since he has raised the
suit, of which he is the self-constituted judge, in which Cocker is pitted against the colonies,
we shall even humour the conceit, and try the question with him according to the principles
of law and logic, as laid down and reduced by himself into the substantial shape of a Dr. and
Cr. account, balances struck in hard cash, and no mistake.

Firstly, to begin with the beginning, which Mr Cobden, with customary confusion of intellect
and arrangement, shoots into the midst of his arithmetic. The worthlessness of the colonies
is argued upon the figures, which show that, of the total exports of the United Kingdom, but
one-third is absorbed by them, whilst two-thirds are taken by foreign markets; therefore it
follows, not that the colonial trade is by 50 per cent less important than foreign, but that,
relatively, it is not only of no importance at all, but, by all the amount, an absolute prejudice:
such, at least, is the rule-of-three logic of the Cobden school, as, viz.:--

    "They should, however, consider what the extent of their trade
    with the colonies was.

We shall come in season meet to the five or six millions sterling said to be voted annually
"to support the colonies." Now, admitting that the sixteen millions, as stated, of exports
colonial do contrast unfavourably with the thirty-five millions of foreign, and that by all
the difference, by more than the difference, colonial trade is disparaged in its importance,
what becomes of this arithmetical illustration of the superiority of foreign trade, when by
the same standard we come to measure it against the home trade, scarcely less a subject of
depreciation and vituperation than the colonial, with thinkers of the same impenetrable, if
not profound class as the member for Stockport? Here, for his edification, we consign the resulting
figures from the standard set up by himself, as they may be found calculated and resolved from
minute detail into grand totals in the "General Statistics of the British Empire," by Mr James
Macqueen, an authority, perhaps, who will not be questioned by competent judges any where without
the pale of the Draconian legislators of the Anti-corn-Law League.

"The yearly consumption of the population of Great Britain and Ireland for food, clothing,
and lodging, (we give the round numbers only):--

Agricultural produce for food,                   £.295,479,000
Produce of manufactures,                           262,085,000
Imports, (raw produce, &c.) value as landed,        55,000,000
                                                 -------------
                                                   612,564,000
Deduct exports,                                     51,000,000
                                                 -------------
                                                 £.561,564,000"

It follows, then, that whilst foreign trade simply consumes something more than double that
of colonial trade, the home trade alone amounts to eleven times over both foreign and colonial
together, and by sixteen times as much the amount of foreign trade alone. Upon the hypothesis
of Mr Cobden, therefore, foreign trade should be treated as of no value at all in the national
sense.

Having disposed of Mr Cobden according to Cocker, in reference to his arithmetical demonstrations
of the superiority in point of pounds, shillings, and pence value of one sort of trade over
another, we may notice some petty trickery, cunningly intended on his part, consisting in the
suppression of figures and facts on the one side, and their aggregation on the other, &c.,
by way of bolstering up unfairly a rotten case. He states the whole colonial trade at £.16,000,000
only, inclusive of British India, whereas Porter's Tables, which he must have consulted, give
the total exports of Great Britain to all the world for 1840,

at                               £.51,406,430
Of which colonial,                 17,378,550
                                -------------
Remaining for foreign trade,     £.34,027,880

Mr Cobden knew well, however, that Gibraltar, Malta, and the Ionian Isles are not, and cannot
be considered as, colonies. They are in fact military stations held for political and commercial
objects. It would be ridiculous to suppose that the rock of Gibraltar, with a population of
15,000 souls, should consume of British imports alone £.1,111,176, the value actually entered
for that port in 1840. That amount should be accounted as to the credit of foreign export trade,
and so Mr Cobden reckoned it, without, however, drawing the distinction, as he should have
done. But that would have exposed the miserable chicanery of the double dealing he had in hand;
for whilst taking credit for the exports to Gibraltar as part and parcel of foreign trade,
he proceeded, by way of doubly weighing the balance, to charge all the civil and military expenditure
of the garrison and fortress against colonial trade, so that he treated Gibraltar as a colony
in respect of its cost, and as a foreign country in respect of its trade. Cunning Isaac! here
we have his military arithmetic:--"Upon the 1st of January in this year, their army numbered
88,000 rank and file. They had abroad, exclusive of India, 44,589. So that more than one half
of that army was stationed in their colonies; and as it was stated by the noble lord the member
for Tiverton in his evidence, for every 10,000 of these soldiers that they had in the colonies,
5000 were wanted in England for the purpose of exchange and recruiting. So that not only one-half,
but actually three-fourths of the army were devoted to the colonies. The army estimates this
year amounted to £.6,225,000, the portion of which sum for the colonies amounted to £.4,500,000."
Now, as the garrison of Gibraltar alone consists of about 4000 men, to which add 2000 as the
proportion for the reserve in England for recruiting and exchanges, it follows that of the
44,500 men on colonial duty, to which add the reserve in England, 22,250, one-eleventh are
stationed in and wanted for Gibraltar alone, the charge of which to be rateably deducted from
the whole sum of £.4,500,000, falsely set down as incurred for the colonies, would be about
£.410,000. If to this sum be added £.275,000 for "new works in Gibraltar," as stated by Mr
Cobden himself from the estimates--ordnance expenditure, (1000 guns,) £.25,000 only--share
of navy estimates, £.50,000 only--we have a gross sum of above three quarters of a million
sterling as the cost of a fortress whose sole utility, in peace or in war, is the favour and
protection of foreign trade--of the trade of the Mediterranean, of which it is the key; and
the nation is saddled with this cost for, among others, the special behoof of that economical
and disinterested patriot Mr Cobden himself, who trades to the shores laved by the waters of
that sea, the Levant and the Dardanelles, if not the Black Sea. Why, Gibraltar alone, with
its 15,000 of population, is more than double the charge of Canada with its million of people,
one-half just emerged out of a state of rebellion, if not quasi rebellious yet. So with Malta,
its garrison of about 3000 men; and, besides, a naval squadron for protection, that island
being the headquarters of the Mediterranean fleet--a fleet and a station exclusively kept up
for the protection of foreign trade, if for any purpose at all. And so also with the Ionian
Islands, garrisoned with 3300 troops. Taking the garrison forces of Malta and these islands
at 6000 men only, with the reserve in England of 3000 more, making altogether 9000, the rateable
share of expense, according to the calculation of Mr Cobden, for the whole army, would be about
£640,000. Add to this sum the estimate of £410,000 for the garrison alone of Gibraltar, and
we have the gross sum of £1,050,000 for the three dependencies of Gibraltar, Malta, and the
Ionian Islands, under the head of those army estimates, amounting to £4,500,000, which Mr Cobden
veraciously charges to the account of the colonies. We purposely leave out of question for
the present the consideration of the other heavy charges in naval armaments, ordnance, &c.,
to which this country is subjected for the same possessions, because we have still to deduct
other portions of the army expenditure set down as for colonial account--that is, as the penalty
paid for keeping colonies; whereas a foreign trade of thirty-four or thirty-five millions,
costs the country nothing at all, according to the numeration tables of Mr Cobden, and therefore
should be all profit.

Passing from Europe, we come to Austral-Asia, where Great Britain, among others, possesses
no less than three penal colonies. It will not be contended that New South Wales, Van Diemen's
Land, and Norfolk Island, were established either with economically trading or political objects;
that, in point of fact, they were established in any other sense than as metropolitan prisons,
for the safe keeping, punishment, and moral reclamation and reform of those quasi incorrigible
offenders, those criminal pests, by which the health of society was distempered, and its safety
endangered in the parent state. Therefore, whatever the military or other expenditure incurred,
it must be as much an obligation in its supreme or corporate capacities upon the state benefited,
as the support of the criminal jurisdiction at home in all its ramifications, from the chief
judges of the land down to the lowest turnkey at Newgate. We need not stop to enquire in what
proportion the manufacturing system, with the immoral schools of radicalism, irreligionism,
and Anti-corn-Law Cobdenism, have contributed to people the penal settlements, and, pro tanto,
to aggrieve the national treasury. Certain it is, and a truth which will not be questioned,
that by far the largest share of that criminal refuse has been cast off by and from the manufacturing
districts; and of which, therefore, the colonial trade portion indirectly contributed should
be rateably the minimum, as compared with foreign trade. In his Statistics of the Colonies
of the British Empire, Mr Montgomery Martin remarks of New South Wales, that "it should be
observed that a large part of the military force is required to guard the prisoners." Let us
take the number of troops so employed at 2600, which will not be far from the mark, the corresponding
home reserve of which will be 1300 more, and we then arrive, with the help of Mr Cobden's arithmetic,
and starting from his own fixed datum of total charge, at a sum, in round numbers, of £265,000
army expenditure for the three penal colonies; the more considerable proportion of which must
at least be set down as arising indirectly from foreign trade, and certainly far the least
from colonial, so far as chargeable upon either.

We have next, taking Mr Cobden's rule of practice, about £.50,000 actual military expenditure
in St Helena, to which add reserve in England, and a total of about £.70,000 is arrived at;
which cannot be placed to colonial account as for colonial purposes, since the island is purely
a military and refreshment station for vessels en route for China, India, and the seas circumflowing;
and foreign trade, therefore, as much concerned in the guilt of its expense as colonial traffic.
The amount of charge, therefore, although remaining to be deducted from the colonial head,
may be left as a neutral indeterminate item. But the military expenses for Singapore, Penang,
and Malacca, about £.80,000, cannot be for colonial account at all, because stations merely
for carrying on foreign trade, against which chargeable, with the civil establishments as well,
whether in whole or in part, paid by the East India Company or not.

Returning westward, we have the Bay of Honduras with a military establishment, including reserve
as per Cobden, expending about £.50,000, which ranges for the far greater part within the category
of the cost attending foreign trade. Then, on the West African slave-trading coast, we have
Sierra Leone, with a military expenditure, actual and contingent, of about £.25,000. There
are the Cape Coast Castle, Acera, Fernando Po, and other small African settlements besides,
which cannot cost less, in military occupation, than some few thousands a-year, say only £.10,000,
all for foreign trade, since colonization and production are nil; and with Sierra Leone, they
are only kept, or were established, for the purpose of suppressing the trade in slaves, and
promoting a foreign trade in that quarter of Africa. Coming to Europe we have Heligoland, a
rock in the North Sea, which, as only costing something more than £.1000 per annum on foreign
trade account, we may leave out of question. Now, without pretending on the present occasion
to make up and offer an approximate estimate of the proportion of army expenditure charged
against the colonies by Mr Cobden, which should be set down either to political account, as
arising from the possession and maintenance of outposts necessary for defensive or defensively
aggressive purposes, in case of, or for the prevention of foreign war, or for the protection
and encouragement of foreign trade, in which a right large portion of the military expenditure
for Jamaica, Nova Scotia, the Bahamas, Bermuda, &c., may be regarded, we shall content ourselves
with reducing his wholesale estimate of colonial army charge by the materials antecedently
furnished. The reductions will stand thus, premising that in respect of Singapore, Penang,
and Malacca, we have not the means of ascertaining what proportion of the charge falls upon
the national treasury, as part is borne by the East India Company. Of one fact there can, however,
be no doubt; namely, that nearly the whole of that charge is incurred for the support and maintenance
of foreign trade, just in or about the same degree as the charges for Gibraltar.

Gibraltar, army estimate,                             £.410,000
Malta, Ionian Islands,                                  640,000
New South Wales, Van Dieman's Land, Norfolk Island,     265,000
St Helena,                                               70,000
Singapore, Penang, &c.,                                  80,000
Honduras,                                                50,000
Sierra Leone, Cape Coast, &c.,                           35,000
                                                     ----------
                                                     £1,550,000
                                                     ----------
Deducting this amount from Mr Cobden's colonial
  estimates of                                        4,500,000
                                                     ----------
                                                     £2,950,000

This discount of about 35 per cent at one "fell swoop" from an audaciously mendacious account-current,
would be deemed sufficiently liberal if dealing with other than the "measureless liars" of
the League; it is far, however, from the whole sum which will be charged upon, and proved against
them, on occasion hereafter when the general question shall be progressed with. The rogues
that fleeced the simple stripling, Lord Huntingtower, out of 95 per cent for his bills, were
not, as shall be proved, more unscrupulous cheats and abusers of individual, than the League
are of public faith.

But the discount of Cobden's Cocker veracity here established, with which for the present we
shall conclude, is far (enormous, almost incredible though it be) from the full measure of
his intrepidity in the "art of misrepresentation;" crediting him, as upon fair consideration
we are bound, with misrepresenting to some extent from sheer ignorance, from want of that early
mental training, or maturer discipline, which alone can qualify for the severe labour of researches
into, and the analysation of truth. For, unfortunately for the question he has raised, although
not so far entertained by the legislature, the very figures discounted from his colonial fictions
tell against, and must be carried over to the debit of, his highly cherished foreign trade
account, the cost of which to the country will be approximately verified on another occasion
in Blackwood. It is the distinctive mishap of the family of the Wrongheads, the illiterate,
one-idea'd class of which he is a member, that they never can contemplate a friendly act without
perpetrating mischief, nor intend mischief without unconsciously achieving discomfiture and
disgrace. For of the £.1,550,000 colonial overcharge in military expenditure alone of this
shallow, unreflecting, and superficial person, not less certainly than £1,200,000 must be charged
to the account of foreign trade, the special trade he delights to honour. It will constitute,
as he will find, a material item in the general balance-sheet which we purpose to draw hereafter
between the advantages of foreign and colonial trade.

Sir Robert Peel is not more correct in his so bitterly reproached "do-nothing" policy about
Irish repeal, than in his "do-nothing" emphatic policy about Corn-law repeal. No man better
knows how, left to themselves, the Brights and Cobdens will turn out to be Marplots. The dolts
cannot see, that however hard the Villierses, and such as them, bid for popularity against
them, in apparently the same cause--they have an interest diametrically adverse in the general
sense, and on the fitting opportunity will throw them overboard. The most influential part
of the liberal press, both metropolitan and provincial, it is well understood, concur with
the League to some extent in its avowed objects, without at all liking its leaders, or the
means pursued for the end sought, and wait only for the occasion, which will come, for damaging
and finally overthrowing them in popular estimation. In Manchester, Leeds, and Birmingham,
that is, in the privately known sentiments of the leading press and other liberal leaders of
opinion in each, it is notorious that this feeling and occult determination prevails. Mr Cobden
himself, and some of his colleagues, are not unaware of the fact, and have, in the factious
and political sense, latterly trimmed their course accordingly. But, notwithstanding, confidence
they have recovered not--never will, because apostacy or trimming cannot inspire confidence;
they are endured--to be used, and to be laid aside, "steeped in Lethe" and forgotten, as in
time they will be.

In this brief article we have treated only of the salient points of the colonial slanders of
Mr Cobden and the League. We have challenged them only with carrying to colonial account above
one million and a half sterling, with which the colonies, so understood in the true sense,
have nothing to do; and we have shown that one million and a quarter nearly of the charge made
against colonial trade, legitimately appertains to foreign trade. Hereafter we purpose to investigate
the respective charges entailed upon the country by foreign and colonial trade, to apportion
to each its share, and to strike the balance of profit and loss relatively upon each. Let it
suffice for the present that we have shown Mr Cobden and his figures to be utterly undeserving
of credit in a partial point of view only; we could, as we shall, prove them to be, either
through idiotical ignorance or stupidly malicious intent, more worthless of credit still in
the general and rational sense--in the relative proportions of the totality of national expenditure.
The blunderer, ignorant or malignant, classed the expenditure for Guernsey and Jersey, and
the Channel islands, under the head of colonial military expenditure, as well as a considerable
portion of the cost of the Chinese war, partly repaid or in course of being repaid. He took
the exports to the colonies for 1840, when the Chinese war was only in its origin, and expense
scarcely incurred; and he adopted the estimates for 1843, when the expenses of the Chinese
war had to be provided for, a portion of which was charged under colonial heads. He omitted,
as we have said, any account of permanent charge for conducting and protecting the trade with
China, amounting to a considerable sum yearly under the old system, and which hereafter will
be more--all to the account of "foreign trade." He omitted besides, at the least, half a million
for the war with China--all for "foreign trade." We shall have other occasions, however, for
exposing his dishonesty, and vindicating the colonies from his calumnies. The only words of
something like truth he spoke, were against that bastard and discreditable system, purporting
to be a "self-supporting system," concocted by adventurers and land-jobbers for achieving fortunes
at the cost, and to the ruin, of the unsuspecting emigrating public, and to the signal detriment
and dishonour of the state.