The questions of wages and privileges were grossly featured. Some men, on being questioned,
supposed that it was possible for every common laborer to receive from $4 to $10 a day, and
that $50 a week was not an unusual wage. The strength of this belief has been remarked by several
social agencies in the North which attempted to supply the immigrants with work. The actual
wages paid, though much in excess of those they had been receiving, were often disappointing.
Similarly in the matter of privilege and "rights" it was later revealed that unbounded liberty
was not to be found in the North. The singular cases of misconduct, against which the more
sober minded preached, possibly had their root in the beautiful and one-sided pictures of the
North which came to the South.

The Chicago Defender, a weekly negro newspaper, with its pronounced radical utterances, its
criticism of the South, its policy of retaliation, etc., contributed greatly to the exodus.[36]
Its influence can be imagined when, after reading the southern white papers with only occasional
references to the negroes which might be called commendable and numerous articles which were
for the most part distasteful, negroes could read the things they wanted to hear most, expressed
in a manner in which they would not dare express them. It voiced the unexpressed thoughts of
many and made accusations for which they themselves would have been severely handled. Freud's
theory of the suppressed wish finds a happy illustration in this rage over the Chicago Defender.
Expressed in terms of figures, the circulation of the paper at the beginning of the movement
was something like 50,000. In 1918 it had grown to 125,000. It had a large circulation in Mississippi
and the supply was usually bought up on the first day of its arrival. Copies were passed around
until worn out. One prominent negro asserted that "negroes grab the Defender like a hungry
mule grabs fodder." In Gulfport, Mississippi, a man was regarded "intelligent" if he read the
Defender. It was said that in Laurel, Mississippi, old men who did not know how to read would
buy it because it was regarded as precious.

It was this paper that named the exodus "The Great Northern Drive," and set the date May 15th,
announced the arrivals and took responsibility for inducing "the poor brethren" from the South.
It was accused of ruining Hattiesburg, Mississippi, by promoting this rush to the North. The
sale of this paper was, therefore, forbidden in several towns in the South. A correspondent
said: "White people are paying more attention to the race in order to keep them in the South,
but the Chicago Defender has emblazoned upon their minds 'Bound for the Promised Land.'"

In answer to the warnings of the South against the rigors of the northern winters, the Defender
said:

    To die from the bite of frost is far more glorious than at the
    hands of a mob. I beg you, my brother, to leave the benighted
    land. You are a free man. Show the world that you will not let
    false leaders lead you. Your neck has been in the yoke. Will
    you continue to keep it there because some "white folks'
    nigger" wants you to? Leave for all quarters of the globe. Get
    out of the South. Your being there in the numbers in which you
    are gives the southern politician too strong a hold on your
    progress.... So much has been said through the white papers in
    the South about the members of the race freezing to death in
    the North. They freeze to death down South when they don't
    take care of themselves. There is no reason for any human
    being staying in the Southland on this bugaboo handed out by
    the white press.[37]

    If you can freeze to death in the North and be free, why
    freeze to death in the South and be a slave, where your
    mother, sister and daughter are raped and burned at the stake;
    where your father, brother and sons are treated with contempt
    and hung to a pole, riddled with bullets at the least mention
    that he does not like the way he is treated. Come North
    then, all you folks, both good and bad. If you don't behave
    yourselves up here, the jails will certainly make you wish you
    had. For the hard-working man there is plenty of work--if you
    really want it. The Defender says come.[38]

The idea that the South is a bad place, unfit for the habitation of colored folk, was duly
emphasized. Conditions most distasteful to negroes were exaggerated and given first prominence.
In this the Defender had a clear field, for the local colored newspapers dared not make such
unrestrained utterances.[39] In fact, reading the Chicago Defender provided a very good substitute
for the knowledge which comes through travel. It had the advantage of bringing the North to
them. Without fear of exaggeration it is safe to say its policy was successful in inciting
thousands of restless negroes to venture north, where they were assured of its protection and
the championship of their cause. There are in Chicago migrants who attribute their presence
in the North to its encouraging pictures of relief from conditions at home with which they
became more and more dissatisfied, as they read.

The setting of a definite date was another stimulus. The great northern drive was scheduled
to begin May 15, 1917. This date, or the week following, singularly corresponds with the date
of the heaviest rush to the North, the periods of greatest temporary congestion and the awakening
of the North to the presence of their guests. Letters to the Chicago Defender and to the social
agencies in the North informed them that they were preparing to come in the great drive. One
of many such letters received is presented.

    April 24, 1917.

    Mr. R.S. Abbott,

    Editor, the Chicago Defender,

    Sir:

    I have been reading the Defender for one year or more, and
    last February I read about the great northern drive to take
    place May 15, on Thursday, and now I can hear so many people
    speaking of an excursion to the North on the 15th of May for
    $3. My husband is in the North already working, and he wants
    us to come up in May, so I want to know if it is true about
    the excursion. I am getting ready and, oh, so many others
    also, and we want to know is that true so we can be in the
    drive. So please answer at once. We are getting ready.

    Yours,

This was perhaps the most popular date, but there were others, of which August 15 was one.
Usually the dates set were for Wednesday and Saturday nights, following pay days.

Personal appeals in the form of letters have a recognized weight in influencing action. The
United States mail was about the most active and efficient labor agent. The manner in which
the first negroes left made great opportunities for letter writing. It is to be remembered
that the departure of one person was regarded always in the light of an experiment. The understanding
existed between a man and his friends that he would honestly inform them of conditions in the
North. Letters were passed around and read before large groups. A woman from Hattiesburg is
accredited with having sent back a letter which enticed away over 200 persons. A tailor who
had settled in a town of white people in the West wrote a letter which was read in a church.
It explained the advantages of the free schools open to all, and the privilege to ride and
to go where one pleases. The reading of the letter brought forth long and loud applause. A
man who had left home, writes back to his friend yet undecided:

    Mike, old boy, I was promoted on the first of the month. I was
    made first assistant to the head carpenter. When he is out of
    place I take everything in charge and was raised to $95 per
    month. You know I know my stuff. What's the news generally
    around H'burg? I should have been here twenty years ago. I
    just begin to feel like a man. It's a great deal of pleasure
    in knowing that you have got some privileges. My children are
    going to the same school with the whites and I don't have
    to humble to no one. I have registered. Will vote the next
    election and there isn't any 'yes, sir, and no, sir.' It's all
    yes and no, and no, Sam, and Bill.

The man has long since been joined by his friend.

The pastor of a Hattiesburg church received a letter from one of his members with the extravagant
assertion that the people whose funerals he had preached were in Chicago (meaning Heaven) because
they were good Christians. To give assurance on the question of weather migrants in the North
would mention the fact that they were writing with their coats off. A fact which strengthened
the belief in the almost incredible wages offered in the North was the money sent back to the
families in the South. A man whose wife had preceded him wrote that she was making $3.50 a
day in charge of a bluing works in Chicago, and actually sent home $15 every two weeks. Another
man wrote that he was in Gary working at his trade making sometimes as much as $7 a day. He
sent home $30 every two weeks. Fully one-half, or perhaps even more of those who left, did
so at the solicitation of friends through correspondence.[40]

Despite the restraints on loose talk in encouragement of the exodus, there were other means
of keeping the subject alive. One method, of course, was the circulation of literature from
the North. One of the most novel schemes was that of a negro dentist in a southern town who
had printed on the reverse side of his business cards quotations from rather positive assertions
by northerners on the migration.[41] The northern press early welcomed the much needed negro
laborers to the North and leaders of thought in that section began to upbraid the South for
its antagonistic attitude towards the welfare of the negroes, who at last had learned to seek
a more congenial home.

A stronger influence than this, though not quite so frequent, was the returned migrant who
was a living example of the prosperity of the North. It was a frequent complaint that these
men were as effective as labor agents in urging negro laborers to go north. There are reported
numerous instances of men who came to visit their families and returned with thirty to forty
men. It has been suspected, and with a strong suggestion of truth, that many of these were
supplied with funds for the trip by the northern firms which employed them. A woman whose daughter
had gone north had been talking of her daughter's success. The reports were so opposite to
the record of the girl at home that they were not taken seriously. Soon, however, the daughter
came home with apparently unlimited money and beautiful clothes, and carried her mother back
with her. This was sufficient. It was remarked afterwards: "If she can make $2.50 a day as
lazy as she was, I know I can make $4."[42]

The labor agents were a very important factor in stimulating the movement. The number at work
in the South appears to have been greatly exaggerated. Agents were more active in large cities
where their presence was not so conspicuous. It was difficult to discover because of the very
guarded manner in which they worked. One, for example, would walk briskly down the street through
a group of negroes and, without turning his head, would say in a low tone, "Anybody want to
go to Chicago, see me." That was sufficient. Many persons were found to remark frequently on
the strange silence which negroes en masse managed to maintain concerning the movement of the
agents. A white man remarked that it was the first time there had ever happened anything about
which he could not get full information from some negro. Agents were reported, at one time
or another, in every section from which the migrants went. When the vigilance of the authorities
restricted their activities they began working through the mails. Many sections were flooded
with letters from the North to persons whose names had been obtained from migrants in the North
or through a quiet canvass of the community by unobstructed solicitors.[43]

Poems on the migration were also strong stimuli. In some instances arrests of persons circulating
them were made. A bit of poetry which received widespread popularity was one called "Bound
for the Promised Land." It was said that this piece of poetry was responsible for much trouble.
The Chicago Defender reported on June 1, 1917, that five young men were arraigned before Judge
John E. Schwartz of Savannah, Georgia, for reading poetry. The police contended that they were
inciting riot in the city and over Georgia. Two of the men were sent for thirty days to Brown
Farm, a place not fit for human beings. Tom Amaca was arrested for having "Bound for the Promised
Land," a poem which had been recently published in the Defender. J.N. Chisholm and A.P. Walker
were arrested there because they were said to be the instigators.[44] Another very popular
poem widely circulated was entitled "Farewell! We're Good and Gone." It was said that this
poem influenced thousands to go. Other poems on the migration were "Northward Bound," "The
Land of Hope" and "Negro Migration" and "The Reason Why."

[Footnote 32: Johnson, Report on the Migration from Mississippi.]

[Footnote 33: Ibid.]

[Footnote 34: Johnson, Report on the Migration from Mississippi.]

[Footnote 35: Ibid.]

[Footnote 36: Some of the material prepared by the Defender for consumption in the South was
as follows:

"Turn a deaf ear to everybody. You see they are not lifting their laws to help you, are they?
Have they stopped their Jim Crow cars? Can you buy a Pullman sleeper where you wish? Will they
give you a square deal in court yet? When a girl is sent to prison she becomes the mistress
of the guards and others in authority, and women prisoners are put on the streets to work--something
they don't do to a white woman. And our leaders will tell you the South is the best place for
you. Turn a deaf ear to the scoundrel, and let him stay. Above all, see to it that that jumping-jack
preacher is left in the South, for he means you no good here in the North.... Once upon a time
we permitted other people to think for us--today we are thinking and acting for ourselves,
with the result that our 'friends' are getting alarmed at our progress. We'd like to oblige
these unselfish (?) souls and remain slaves in the South; but to other sections of the country
we have said, as the song goes, 'I hear you calling me,' and have boarded the train, singing,
'Good-bye, Dixie Land.'"]

[Footnote 37: The following clippings are taken from these white papers:

"Aged Negro Frozen to Death--Albany, Ga., February 8.

"Yesterday the dead body of Peter Crowder, an old negro, was found in an out-of-the-way place
where he had been frozen to death during the recent cold snap."--Macon Telegraph.

"Dies from Exposure--Spartanburg, S.C., February 6.

"Marshall Jackson, a negro man, who lived on the farm of J.T. Harris near Campobello, Sunday
night froze to death."--South Carolina State.

"Negro Frozen to Death in Fireless Gretna Hut.

"Coldest weather in the last four years claimed a victim Friday night, when Archie Williams,
a negro, was frozen to death in his bed in a little hut in the outskirts of Gretna."--New Orleans
Item, February 4.

"Negro Woman Frozen to Death Monday.

"Harriet Tolbert, an aged negro woman, was frozen to death in her home at 18 Garibaldi Street
early Monday morning during the severe cold."--Atlanta Constitution, February 6.]

[Footnote 38: Articles such as the following kept alive the spirit of the exodus:

"Tampa, Florida, January 19. J.T. King, supposed to be a race leader, is using his wits to
get on the good side of the white people by calling a meeting to urge our people not to migrate
north. King has been termed a 'good nigger' by his pernicious activity on the emigration question.
Reports have been received here that all who have gone north are at work and pleased with the
splendid conditions in the North. It is known here that in the North there is a scarcity of
labor; mills and factories are open to them. People are not paying any attention to King and
are packing and ready to travel north to the 'promised land.'"

"Jackson, Miss., March 23. J.H. Thomas, Birmingham, Alabama, Brownsville Colony, has been here
several weeks and is very much pleased with the North. He is working at the Pullman Shops,
making twice as much as he did at home. Mr. Thomas says the 'exodus' will be greater later
on in the year, that he did not find four feet of snow or would freeze to death. He lives at
346 East Thirty-fifth St."

"Huntsville, Alabama, January 19. Fifteen families, all members of the race, left here today
for Pittsburgh, Pa., where they will take positions as butlers and maids, getting sixty to
seventy-five dollars a month against fifteen and twenty paid here. Most of them claim that
they have letters from their friends who went early and made good saying that there was plenty
of work, and this field of labor is short owing to the vast amount of men having gone to Europe
and not returned."

"Shreveport, La., April 13. The Business Men's League held a meeting here and the white daily
papers reported that it was for the purpose of discouraging people from going north. The meeting
had no such object. On the other hand, members of the race claim that on May 15th they will
be found leaving with the great northern drive."

"The northern invasion has already started, much earlier than predicted. Many members of the
race refused to wait until spring. They have started despite the snow and cold. Last week thirty-one
came here from Hattiesburg, Mississippi, and said they intended to stay. They were well clothed,
having heavy overcoats and rubber overshoes."

"Memphis, Tenn., June 1. Your correspondent took a walk to Central station Saturday night just
to see what was going on, and to his surprise and delight, he saw gathered there between 1,500
and 2,000 race men and women. Number 4, due to leave for Chicago at 8:00 o'clock, was held
up twenty minutes so that those people who hadn't purchased tickets might be taken aboard.
It was necessary to add two additional eighty-foot steel coaches to the Chicago train in order
to accommodate the race people, and at the lowest calculation there were more than 1,200 taken
aboard."

"St. Louis, Mo., May 11. The Defender propaganda to leave sections of the South where they
find conditions intolerable is receiving a hearty response. A communication was received by
a Defender representative last week from Houston, Texas, asking for information relative to
conditions in this city and the writer stated a number of persons were planning to leave Houston
for this city later on. The information was promptly and cheerfully given."

"Tallulah, La., January 19. This time it's a professor. Heretofore it has been the preachers
who have been paid by the white men of the South to tell our people that the North is no place
for them. A bigger lie never was uttered. But now it is a professor. He is licking the white
man's hand to hold a little $35 job as a backwoods school teacher. He got his name in the papers
(white) as 'good nigger.' Just because this 'would-be professor' has been making speeches,
asking that our people remain here and be treated like dogs, they are starting a crusade north,
and by Easter there will not be one left to tell the tale."]

[Footnote 39: "Forest City, Ark., February 16. David B. Smith (white) is on trial for life
for the brutal murder of a member of the race, W.H. Winford, who refused to be whipped like
others. This white man had the habit of making his 'slave' submit to this sort of punishment
and when Winford refused to stand for it, he was whipped to death with a 'black snake' whip.
The trial of Smith is attracting very little attention. As a matter of fact, the white people
here think nothing of it as the dead man is a 'nigger.' This very act, coupled with other recent
outrages that have been heaped upon our people, are causing thousands to leave, not waiting
for the great spring movement in May."]

[Footnote 40: Johnson, Report on the Migration from Mississippi.]

[Footnote 41: "There is no class of people and no ethical question that will not feel the effects
of the war. The negroes of this country who go to France to fight, or who replace workingmen
who go as soldiers will demand, and justly so, full American rights. The United States can
not stand before the world as the champion of freedom and democracy and continue to burn men
alive and lynch them without fair trial. The National Association for the Advancement of Colored
People calls upon this country to 'clear her conscience before she can fight for the world's
good,' by abolishing lynching and ceasing all oppression of negroes. This is a national problem
and more particularly one of the South. In Europe there are practically no race distinctions.
A negro can mix with white folk as an equal, just as a Spaniard, for example, does here; even
intermarriage is not regarded as miscegenation. The race problem here is a different matter,
however, as even the more intelligent negroes themselves will acknowledge. The negro should
be assured all the protection and rights that go with American citizenship, but in this is
not involved intermarriage or social equality."--Leslie's Illustrated Weekly, October 13, 1917.

"The foreign laborer has been called home to bear arms for his country. The daily death toll
and waste and the recently enacted immigration law make it certain that he will not soon return
in great numbers. As a result a large market exists for the negro laborer in localities in
which he would have been considered an impudent trespasser had he attempted to enter a few
years ago. The history of the world from the days of Moses to the present shows that where
one race has been subjugated, oppressed or proscribed by another and exists in large numbers,
permanent relief has come in one or two ways--amalgamation or migration. The thought of amalgamation
is not to be entertained. If conditions in the South for the colored man are to be permanently
improved, many of those who now live there should migrate and scatter throughout the North,
East and West. I believe the present opportunity providential."--Hon. John C. Ashbury, Philadelphia
Bar.

"This is the psychological moment to say to the American white government from every pulpit
and platform and through every newspaper, 'Yes, we are loyal and patriotic. Boston Common,
Bunker Hill, Gettysburg, Fort Pillow, Appomattox, San Juan Hill and Carrizal will testify to
our loyalty. While we love our flag and country, we do not believe in fighting for the protection
of commerce on the high seas until the powers that be give us at least some verbal assurance
that the property and lives of the members of our race are going to be protected on land from
Maine to Mississippi.' Let us have the courage to say to the white American people, 'Give us
the same rights which you enjoy, and then we will fight by your side with all of our might
for every international right on land and sea.' If this kind of talk is not loyalty, then I
am disloyal; if this is not patriotism, then I am unpatriotic; if this is treason, then I am
a traitor. It is not that I love Cæsar less, but these black Romans more, who have been true
to the flag for two hundred and fifty years. It is infinitely more disgraceful and outrageous
to hang and burn colored men, boys and women without a trial in the times of peace than it
is for Germans in times of war to blow up ships loaded with mules and molasses."--Reverend
A. Clayton Powell, New York, N.Y.]

[Footnote 42: Johnson, Report on the Migration from Mississippi.]

[Footnote 43: Work and Johnson, Report on the Migration during the World War.]

[Footnote 44: Ibid.]

CHAPTER IV

THE SPREAD OF THE MOVEMENT

In the first communities visited by representatives of northern capital, their offers created
unprecedented commotion. Drivers and teamsters left their wagons standing in the street. Workers,
returning home, scrambled aboard the trains for the North without notifying their employers
or their families. The crowds that blackened the pool rooms and "hangouts" faded away as the
trains continued to leave. Wild rumors about the North crept into circulation and received
unquestioning credence. Songs about Pennsylvania, the spontaneous expression of anxiety and
joy over the sudden revelation of a new world, floated about on the lips of the children. Homes
were thrown on the market and sold at ruinously low prices.

It was observed that the beginnings in each new community exhibited the same characteristics.
This is due in part to a pretty universal state of unrest among negroes throughout the South.
Although the first State entered by representatives of northern capital was Florida, their
efforts were not confined to that commonwealth. And again, although the Pennsylvania and Erie
Railroads were the first to import negroes in large numbers, they were not alone in the field
very long. The steel mills of the East and the railroads of the West soon followed--each selecting
States from which egress was easy and convenient. The authorities of the cities of Florida,
when they began to engage themselves in the suppression of recruiting agents, succeeded in
scattering them to other fields where their mere presence, preceded as it was by the news of
their mission in the South, was sufficient to attract, first, all of the landless labor, then
to loosen the steady workman wedded to the soil, and finally to carry away the best of the
working classes. Quite naturally southeastern Georgia was the second district to feel the drain
of the exodus. These workers were carried into Pennsylvania, New York and New Jersey for the
maintenance work of the roads. North Carolina was next entered; then finally Virginia which
had been sending many negroes into New York, Pennsylvania and New Jersey for a number of years.[45]

Numerous illustrations show the popular state of mind at the beginning, when every one was
feverish. Men would loudly decry the folly of breaking up their homes, the result of years
of unrelenting toil, and venturing into the unknown North, and within less than twenty-four
hours, would leave themselves. A good citizen would talk with another about the apparent insanity
of those negroes who had "contracted the northern fever." They would condemn their acts with
their strongest words. Hardly before another day could pass, one of the two would disappear,
having imitated the recklessness of the very people he had so recently condemned.

One man in telling of how they acted, asserts "You could see a man today and he would be calling
the people who were leaving all kinds of names; he could even beat you when it came to calling
them fools for going north. The next day when you met him he wouldn't talk so loud and the
next day he wouldn't let you see him. That would be the last of him, because, unless you went
to the depot, you wouldn't see him again. Whenever I saw them shying off from me, I always
knew what they had up their sleeves." It was "just naturally fashionable" to leave for the
North. A man would make up his mind to go and proceed forthwith to persuade his friends. If
they refused, they no longer had any interests in common. In talking with a man who had persistently
refused to leave, he declared that he had lost practically every friend he had, simply because
he did not agree with them on "the northern question." For the pastors of churches it was a
most trying ordeal. They must watch their congregations melt away and could say nothing. If
they spoke in favor of the movement, they were in danger of a clash with the authorities. If
they discouraged it, they were accused of being bought up to hold negroes in bondage. If a
pastor attempted to persuade negroes to stay, his congregation and his collection would be
cut down and in some cases his resignation demanded. In some of the smaller communities the
pastors settled this difficulty by following their flock, as was the case of three who left
Hattiesburg, Mississippi, following their congregations. Two lumber companies in Mississippi
employed a negro to lecture for the purpose of discouraging the exodus. He was handsomely paid,
but he was unheeded. Even now he is held in contempt by his former friends.

The devout and religious saw God in the movement. It was inspired, they said, else why could
so many thousand negroes all be obsessed at once with the same impulse. There were set afloat
rumors that a great calamity was about to befall the Southland. In Georgia and Alabama, hundreds
believed that God had cursed the land when he sent droughts and floods and destructive pests
to visit them. The number of negroes needed in the North was counted in millions; the wages
offered were fabulous and the letters that came from the vanguard painted pictures of a land
of plenty. From some communities a small group would leave, promising to inform those behind
of the actual state of affairs. For a week or more there would follow a tense period of "watchful
waiting" and never ending anxiety, when finally there would arrive a card bearing the terse
report "Everything pritty," or "Home ain't nothing like this." On this assurance, a reckless
disposition of household effects would follow.[46]

The towns quite naturally were the first to feel the effect. There, the pass rider--the labor
agent--could move about more freely. People lived in closer contact and news circulated more
rapidly; the papers came in regularly and the negroes themselves could see those leaving. On
market days when the country folk reached town they got their first impulse from the commotion.
Young country boys failed to return to quiet isolation, and sturdy sensible farmers whose whole
lives had been spent on the farm, could not resist the temptation. As they returned they informed
their neighbors, saying: "They are leaving town by the thousands," or "Man, colored folks are
leaving in droves for the North." There are cases of men who left their fields half plowed
and journeyed to the city and thence to the North. In other communities, the beginning would
be a timid dribble to the larger cities or directly to the North.[47]

The state of mind of the community under the influence of the first effects of the "fever"
is illustrated in authenticated accounts of persons who witnessed the exodus from different cities:

    The most interesting thing is how these people left. They were
    selling out everything they had or in a manner giving it away;
    selling their homes, mules, horses, cows, and everything about
    them but their trunks. All around in the country, people who
    were so old they could not very well get about were leaving.
    Some left with six to eight very small children and babies
    half clothed, no shoes on their feet, hungry, not anything to
    eat and not even a cent over their train fare. Some would go
    to the station and wait there three or four days for an agent
    who was carrying them on passes. Others of this city would
    go in clubs of fifty and a hundred at a time in order to get
    reduced rates. They usually left on Wednesday and Saturday
    nights. One Wednesday night I went to the station to see
    a friend of mine who was leaving. I could not get in the
    station, there were so many people turning like bees in a
    hive. Officers would go up and down the tracks trying to keep
    the people back. One old lady and man had gotten on the train.
    They were patting their feet and singing and a man standing
    nearby asked, "Uncle, where are you going?" The old man
    replied, "Well, son, I'm gwine to the promised land."[48]

"When the laboring man got paid off," said a Jackson, Mississippi, man, "he bought himself
a suit of overalls and a paper valise and disappeared." Even the young married women refused
to wait any longer than the time required to save railroad fare. It's strange that when a negro
got a notion to leave and he could not sell or give away, he simply locked up his house and
left the key with his neighbor. Families with $1,000 worth of furniture have been known to
sell it for $150. A negro in Jackson was buying a $1,000 house, on which he had paid $700.
When the "fever" struck the town, he sold it for $100 and left.

There was related this instance of a number of negro laborers:

    On a plantation in south Georgia, where fifteen or more
    families were farming as tenants, there had been a great deal
    of confusion and suffering among the people because of the
    lack of sufficient food and clothing. There were the Joneses,
    a family of nine, the Harrisons, a family of ten, and the
    Battles, a family of six. No family on the place had an
    allowance of more than $25 per month for food and clothing.
    When this allowance gave out, nothing could be gotten until
    the next month and the tenants dared not leave their farms to
    work elsewhere. The owner of this plantation lived in town ten
    miles away and only visited the farm about once a week. Much
    to his surprise, on one of his weekly visits, he found all the
    homes and farms deserted except one. On that were two old men,
    Uncle Ben and Uncle Joe, who had been left behind because
    they were unable to secure passes. Uncle Ben and Uncle
    Joe sorrowfully told the landlord all that had happened,
    emphasizing the fact that they were the only ones who had
    remained loyal to him. Then they told him their needs. The
    landlord, thinking that the old negroes were so faithful,
    rewarded them with a good sum of money and left with the
    assurance that they would see to the crops being worked. No
    sooner had the landlord left than these old men with grips
    packed and with the money they had received, boarded the train
    to join their companions in the North.[49]

As an example of the irresistible force which characterized the movement, one old negro made
the remark: "I sorter wanted to go myself. I didn't know just where I wanted to go. I just
wanted to git away with the rest of them." A woman in speaking of the torture of solitude which
she experienced after the first wave passed over her town, said: "You could go out on the street
and count on your fingers all the colored people you saw during the entire day. Now and then
a disconsolate looking Italian storekeeper would come out in the street, look up and down and
walk back. It was a sad looking place, and so quiet it gave you the shivers."[50]

In the heat of the excitement families left carrying members dangerously ill. There is reported
one interesting case of a family with one of its members sick with pneumonia. As soon as the
woman was able to sit up, she was carried away. At St. Louis it was found necessary to stop
because of her condition. Finding that she could not recover, they proceeded to Chicago, where
she died. Several of the migrants have seen fit to make heroes of themselves by declining to
return to the South even on the advice of a physician. Thus, a certain minister is said to
have refused to be sent home when his physician had told him there was a possible chance for
recovery in his home in the South. He said that he preferred to die and be buried in the North.

By the summer of 1916, the exodus from Florida had grown to such ungovernable bounds that the
more stable classes of negroes became unsettled. A body, representing the influential colored
citizens of the State, wrote the editor of the New York Age:[51]

    Jacksonville, Fla., August 10, 1916.

    To the Editor of the Age:

    To be brief, I beg to state that the (----) of this city, in
    a regular meeting, voted last Monday that I write your paper
    asking advice on the subject of migration which is large and
    really alarming to the people of this State, for thousands
    of people (colored) are leaving this State, going to
    Pennsylvania, New York, Maryland and New Jersey, where it is
    stated they are wanted as laborers in various pursuits. In
    your mind and to your knowledge, do you think it is the
    best thing for them to do, and are they bettering condition
    financially, morally and religiously; even in manhood,
    citizenship, etc. Our ---- has been asked by the white and
    colored people here to speak in an advisory way, but we
    decided to remain silent until we can hear from reliable
    sources in the North and East, and you have been designated
    as one of the best. So to speak, our city is in a turmoil--in
    suspense. You have doubtless heard of the great exodus of
    negroes to the North, and we presume you have given it some
    thought, and even investigated it. Please give the benefit of
    your findings and reasons for your conclusion.

    Thanking you in advance for a prompt and full reply to the
    corresponding secretary, Yours truly,

    Corresponding Secretary.

Caught up in the wave of enthusiasm that swept over the South, these migrants could not resist
the impulse to leave. The economic loss resulting from their reckless departure expressed in
terms of dollars and cents is another story, and probably can never be even approximately estimated.
What seems of most interest here is that they were in the frame of mind for leaving. They left
as though they were fleeing some curse; they were willing to make almost any sacrifice to obtain
a railroad ticket and they left with the intention of staying. What has been described, of
course, can not be construed to apply to every one who left. There were those of the business
and professional classes who were promoted by other motives than those which impelled the masses
of migrants. There were, for example, migrants who in the South had held positions of relatively
high standing by virtue of the fact that there do exist two institutional standards, the white
and the black. Measured by the requirements of the latter, they stood high in the respect of
the community, but when removed to the North they suffered in the rank of their occupation.
A college president or even a school teacher had little opportunity in their respective fields
in the North. They had, therefore, migrated because deserted by their neighbors they were left
with a prospect of a diminishing social importance.

Professional men followed their practice. In Chicago there are at least six lawyers from Mississippi,
with practically the same clientele. At the height of the exodus, one of these came to Chicago
and secured admission to the bar in order that he might be in a position to move quickly if
his practice were too severely cut down. Several physicians of the State have remarked that
they would now be in the East or the North if reciprocity with the State of Mississippi were
possible.[52] Business men have been reported to have moved North for the sole purpose of collecting
debts. Others are cooler and more calculating in preparing to leave. One pharmacist, for instance,
plans to move within the next five years. It is true that some of those who came in the movement
would have come even if no one else had decided to migrate. The influence of the general state
of mind, however, on the great majority is of most concern in determining the forces behind
the exodus.

Possibly the numbers to leave the South would have been considerably smaller had there not
been existent so universal a readiness to respond to a call in almost any direction. The causes
of this state of mind are stated elsewhere. What is important here is the behavior of the persons
leaving which exerted such a compelling influence on their neighbors. The actions are illustrative
not only of the contagion of the movement, but of the fundamental emotions of the negroes who
formed the exodus. Thus it was, for example, that the movement was called the "exodus" from
its suggestive resemblance to the flight of the Israelites from Egypt, The Promised Land, Crossing
over Jordan (the Ohio River), and Beulah Land. At times demonstrations took on a rather spectacular
aspect, as when a party of 147 from Hattiesburg, Mississippi, while crossing the Ohio River,
held solemn ceremonies. These migrants knelt down and prayed; the men stopped their watches
and, amid tears of joy, sang the familiar songs of deliverance, "I done come out of the Land
of Egypt with the good news." The songs following in order were "Beulah Land" and "Dwelling
in Beulah Land." One woman of the party declared that she could detect an actual difference
in the atmosphere beyond the Ohio River, explaining that it was much lighter and that she could
get her breath more easily.[53]

The general direction of the spread of the movement was from east to west. While efforts were
being made to check the exodus from Florida, the good citizens of Texas were first beginning
to note a stir of unrest in their sections. On the other hand, the march of the boll weevil,
that stripped the cotton fields of the South, was from west to east. Where there was wide unemployment,
depression and poverty as a result of the great floods in Alabama, the cutting down of the
cane area in Louisiana, the boll weevil in Mississippi, there were to be found thousands who
needed no other inducement save the prospect of a good job. Indeed, it is alleged by some negroes
that the myriads of labor agents who were said to be operating in the South were creatures
of the imagination of an affrighted Southland; that but few were actually offering positions
in the North; but their success was due to the overpowering desire on the part of the negroes
to go.[54]

In September of 1916 a Georgia correspondent of the Atlanta Constitution wrote:

    For the past two or three weeks I have been receiving two
    or more letters daily from people in all sections of Georgia
    asking my advice as to the advisability of the colored people
    leaving the State in large numbers, as they have been leaving
    for the past six months. I think it is a mistake for our
    people to sell and practically give their earnings of years
    just on a hearsay that they will be given larger salaries and
    great advantages in some other part of the country.

It will be remembered that the State of South Carolina was not immediately affected. It was
not until the discussions bearing on the negro's insecurity and economic state, which accompanied
the exodus in justification of it, had begun to be emphasized as the cause of the movement
that a great exodus took place in the State. The principal occasion here was the unfortunate
lynching of Anthony Crawford. A negro newspaper with a correspondent in Abbeville said:

    The lynching of Anthony Crawford has caused men and women of
    this State to get up and bodily leave it. The lynching of Mr.
    Crawford was unwarranted and uncalled for and his treatment
    was such a disgrace that respectable people are leaving daily.
    When they begin to leave in the next few weeks like they have
    planned, this section will go almost into hysterics as some
    sections of Georgia and Alabama are doing because they are
    leaving for the North to better their industrial condition.
    Crawford is said to have been worth $100,000 in property. His
    wife and five sons have been ordered to leave. Word comes that
    neighbors are beginning to leave and the number the first of
    the week reached 1,000. The cry now is--"Go north, where there
    is some humanity, some justice and fairness." White people
    have accelerated the movement for the race to move north.

This, however, accounts principally for the spread of the movement as accomplished by northern
capital which, hitting the South in spots, made it possible for a wider dissemination of knowledge
concerning the North, and actually placed in the North persons with numerous personal connections
at home. The husbands and fathers who preceded their families could and did command that they
follow, and they in turn influenced their neighbors. It appears that those who came on free
transportation were largely men who had no permanent interests or who could afford to venture
into strange fields. This indiscriminate method of many of the transporting agencies undoubtedly
made it possible for a great number of indigent and thriftless negroes simply to change the
scene of their inaction. Yet it is unquestionably true that quite a large proportion of those
who went North in this fashion were men honestly seeking remunerative employment, or persons
who left through sheer desperation. In the second stage of the movement the club organizations,
special parties and chartered cars did most perhaps to depopulate little communities and drain
the towns and cities.

This is easily to be accounted for. The free trains, carrying mainly men, were uncertain. They
were operated for brief periods in towns, but were in such ill favor with the police that passengers
were not safe. The clubs or special parties were worked up by a leader, who was often a woman
of influence. She sought her friends and a convenient date was appointed Arrangements could
also be made with friends in the North to receive them. The effectiveness of this method is
seen in the fact that neighbor was soliciting neighbor and friend persuading friend. Women
in some of the northern cities, joining these clubs, assert that no persuasion was needed;
that if a family found that it could not leave with the first groups, it felt desolate and
willing to resort to any extremes and sacrifices to get the necessary fare. One woman in a
little town in Mississippi, from which over half of the negro population had dribbled away,
said: "If I stay here any longer, I'll go wild. Every time I go home I have to pass house after
house of all my friends who are in the North and prospering. I've been trying to hold on here
and keep my little property. There ain't enough people here I now know to give me a decent burial."

[Footnote 45: Work, Report on the Migration from Florida.]

[Footnote 46: Work and Johnson, Report on the Migration during the World War.]

[Footnote 47: The Chicago Defender, 1916, 1917.]

[Footnote 48: "Whether he knew what he was going for or not," says one, "he did not take time
to consider. The slogan was 'going north.' Some never questioned the whys or wherefores but
went; led as if, by some mysterious unseen hand which was compelling them on, they just couldn't
stay. One old negro when asked why he was leaving, replied: 'I don't know why or where I'm
going, but I'm on my way.' The northern fever was just simply contagious; they couldn't help
themselves. So far as I know, and I think I am about right, this fever started in and around
the vicinity of Bessemer, Alabama. One little village, especially, there was owned by a white
man from my home who had gone there the year before carrying some negroes with him. The negroes
started leaving this village so fast that he wouldn't allow any more tickets to be sold in
this village, but the negroes only scoffed at this. They left the plantations at night and
went to other villages for tickets. The fever had now begun and, like all other contagious
diseases, it soon spread. I arrived home on May 4 and found my native town all in a bustle.
Now, what was it all about? The next club for the North was leaving on May 18. The second-hand
furniture store and junk shop were practically overflowing. People were selling out valuable
furniture such as whole bedroom sets for only $2. One family that I knew myself sold a beautiful
expensive home for only $100. In fact people almost gave away their houses and furnishings.
Finally, the night for the club to leave came and the crowds at the train were so large that
the policemen had to just force them back in order to allow the people to get on and off. After
the train was filled with as many people as it could hold, the old engine gave one or two puffs
and pulled out, bound for the promised land."

"A very close neighbor of ours," says one, "left for the North. He had a very small family.
He left because his youngest son, who had been north a few months, came home with a considerable
amount of money which he had saved while on his trip. The father made haste and sold all he
had. His son got him a pass. He said it was far better for him to be in the North where he
could stand up like a man and demand his rights; so he is there. His daughter Mary remained
at home for some time after the family had gone. She finally wrote her father to send her a
pass, which he did. She had a small boy that was given her. She was not able to take him and
care for him as she would like. Her next door neighbor, a very fine woman who had no children,
wanted a child so Mary gave it to her. To secure better wages and more freedom his oldest son
went to East St. Louis and remained there until June. Then he left for Chicago. This family
sold their chickens and rented their cattle to some of the people in that community."--Work
and Johnson, Report on the Migration during the World War.]

[Footnote 49: Work and Johnson, Report on the Migration during the World War.]

[Footnote 50: Ibid.]

[Footnote 51: The New York Age, August 16, 1916.]

[Footnote 52: Johnson, Report on the Migration from Mississippi.]

[Footnote 53: Johnson, Report on the Migration from Mississippi.]

[Footnote 54: Work, Report on the Migration from Alabama.]

CHAPTER V

THE CALL OF THE SELF-SUFFICIENT NORTH

A surviving custom of servitude has consigned the mass of negroes to the lower pursuits of
labor. Even at this it would be possible to live, for there would be work. In the North, however,
such employment has been monopolized by foreign immigrants clearing Ellis Island at the rate
of more than a million a year. The usurpation here brought no clash, for the number of negroes
in the North scarcely equalled a year's immigration. From the ranks of unskilled labor, accordingly,
they were effectively debarred, being used occasionally, and to their own detriment, as strike
breakers and forced to receive smaller wages and to make more enemies. From the field of skilled
labor they have been similarly debarred by the labor unions.

The labor unions have felt that they had a good case against the negro workman. The complaints
most commonly made are that he could be too easily used as a strike breaker and that he lacked
interest in the trade union movement. As a matter of fact, both are true. An explanation of
this attitude at the same time brings out another barrier opposed by the North to the free
access of negroes to trades. Considerable wavering has characterized the attitude of the trade
unions toward negro labor. The complexity of their organization makes it difficult to place
any responsibility directly for their shortcomings. The fact remains, however, that despite
the declaration of the constitution of the federated body that no distinction shall be made
on account of sex, color or creed, negroes have been systematically debarred from membership
in a great number of labor bodies. Even where there has been no express prohibition in the
constitution of local organizations the disposition to exclude them has been just as effective.
Refused membership, they have easily become strike breakers. The indifference on the part of
negroes to the labor movement, however, may well be attributed also to ignorance of its benefits.
In a number of cases separate organizations have been granted them.

With the foreign immigration silently crowding him back into the South, the labor unions, the
prejudices of his white fellow workman and the paucity of his number making him ineffective
as a competitor, driving him from the door of the factory and workshop, the negro workman,
whatever his qualifications, was prior to 1914 forced to enter the field of domestic service
in the North and farming in the South. The conditions of livelihood in both sections kept him
rigidly restricted to this limited economic sphere. In 1910 the total number of negroes ten
years of age and over gainfully occupied in the United States was 5,192,535 or 71 per cent
of the total number of negroes ten years of age and over. Of this number 2,848,258 or 55.2
per cent were farmers and 1,122,182 or 21.4 per cent were domestic servants. Out of nearly
five hundred occupations listed in the census of 1910 three-fourths of the negro working population
were limited to two. In the manufacturing and mechanical pursuits throughout the entire United
States there were employed scarcely a half million or 12.1 per cent of the working population.

Statistics of labor conditions in certain northern cities support this conclusion. In New York
City in 1910, of the negroes ten years of age and over gainfully occupied there were 33,110
males and 26,352 females. Of the males there were engaged in domestic and personal service
16,724 or 47.6 per cent of the total number of males. Of the 26,352 females there were in domestic
service 24,647 or 93.5 per cent of the total number. In the occupations which require any degree
of skill and utilise the training of acquired trades, the percentage was exceedingly low. For
example, in the manufacturing and mechanical pursuits where there were the benefits of labor
organizations and higher pay, there were but 4,504 negro males, or 13.6 per cent of the total
number gainfully employed. The per cent of colored women in this line was considerably less.
Taken together with the 1,993 dressmakers working outside of factories it was but 8.3 per cent
of the total number of females. This line of work, however, as all who are familiar with the
manner in which it is done will recognize, is but another form of domestic service. Exclusive
of this number the per cent drops to a figure a trifle over one per cent.

Chicago, as another typical northern city, shows practically the same limitations on negro
labor. In 1910 there were gainfully employed in this city 27,317 negroes. Of this total 61.8
per cent were engaged in domestic service. The negro women, of course, contributed a larger
share to this proportion, theirs being 83.8 per cent of the females ten years of age and over
gainfully employed. In the manufacturing and mechanical pursuits there were engaged 3,466 males
and 1,038 females, or 18.7 and 1.1 per cent respectively.[55]

Detroit, viewed in the light of its tremendous increase, shows some of the widest differences.
In 1910 there were 3,310 negroes of working age profitably employed. Of this number there were
but 410 males and 74 females engaged in the manufacturing and mechanical pursuits. Forty-six
of the total female working population were engaged in domestic service. Limited to a few occupations,
the negroes naturally encountered there intense competition with the usual result of low wages
and numerous other abuses. Whenever they entered new fields, as for instance those designated
by the census as trade and transportation, they were generally compelled to accept wages below
the standard to obtain such employment.

There appears to have been a slow but steady progress throughout the North toward the accession
of negroes to new lines of occupation. This change was forced, unquestionably, by the necessity
for seeking new fields even at an economic loss. From the lines of work in which negroes for
a long time have held unquestioned prestige, the competition of other nationalities has removed
them. It is difficult now to find a barber shop operated by a negro in the business district
of any northern city. The most dangerous competitor of the negro in northern industry has been
the immigrant, who, unconscious of his subtle inhibition on the negro's industrial development,
crowded him out of employment in the North and fairly well succeeded in holding him in the
South. After fifty years of European immigration the foreign born increased from two million
to over thirteen million and only five per cent of them have settled in the South. Indeed,
the yearly increase in foreign immigration equalled the entire negro population of the North.

The competition in the North has, therefore, been in consequence bitter and unrelenting. Swedes
and Germans have replaced negroes in some cities as janitors. Austrians, Frenchmen and Germans
have ousted them from the hotels, and Greeks have almost monopolized the bootblacking business.
The decline in the domestic service quota of the working negro population, when there has been
a decline, seems to have been forced. The figures of the United States census strengthen the
belief that the World War has accomplished one of two things: It has either hastened the process
of opening up larger fields or it has prevented a serious economic situation which doubtless
would have followed the complete supplanting of negroes by foreigners in practically all lines.

Before the war the immigration of foreigners from Europe was proceeding at the enormous rate
of over a million a year. This influx was so completely checked by the war that the margin
of arrivals over departures for the first three years following the beginning of hostilities
was the smallest in fifty years. The following is a statement taken from reports of the Bureau
of Foreign Immigration.

IMMIGRATION SINCE 1913

Year     Number 1913   1,197,892 1914   1,218,480 1915     326,700 1916     298,826 1917  
295,403

The decrease of over 900,000 immigrants, on whom the industries of the North depended, caused
a grave situation. It must be remembered also that of the 295,403 arrivals in 1917, there were
included 32,346 English, 24,405 French and 13,350 Scotch who furnish but a small quota of the
laboring classes. There were also 16,438 Mexicans who came over the border, and who, for the
most part, live and work in the Southwest. The type of immigration which kept prime the labor
market of the North and Northwest came in through Ellis Island. Of these, Mr. Frederick C.
Howe, Commissioner of Immigration, said that "only enough have come to balance those who have
left." He adds further that "As a result, there has been a great shortage of labor in many
of our industrial sections that may last as long as the war."

With the establishment of new industries to meet the needs of the war, the erection of munitions
plants for the manufacture of war materials and the enlargement of already existing industries
to meet the abnormally large demand for materials here and in Europe, there came a shifting
in the existing labor supply in the North. There was a rush to the higher paid positions in
the munitions plants. This, together with the advancement of the white men to higher positions
nearly depleted the ranks of common labor. The companies employing foreign labor for railroad
construction work and in the steel mills of Pennsylvania, the tobacco fields of Connecticut,
the packing houses, foundries and automobile plants of the Northwest, found it imperative to
seek for labor in home fields. The Department of Labor, in the effort to relieve this shortage,
through its employment service, at first assisted the migration northward. It later withdrew
its assistance when its attention was called to the growing magnitude of the movement and its
possible effect on the South.

Deserted by the Department of Labor, certain northern employers undertook to translate their
desires into action in 1915, when the anxieties of the New England tobacco planters were felt
in the New York labor market. These planters at first rushed to New York and promiscuously
gathered up 200 girls of the worst type, who straightway proceeded to demoralize Hartford.
The blunder was speedily detected and the employers came back to New York, seeking some agency
which might assist them in the solution of their problem. Importuned for help, the National
League on Urban Conditions among Negroes supplied these planters with respectable southern
blacks who met this unusual demand for labor in Connecticut. Later, moreover, it appeared that
on the threshold of an unusually promising year the Poles, Lithuanians and Czechs, formerly
employed in the fields, were dwindling in number and there was not at hand the usual supply
from which their workers were recruited. A large number of these foreigners had been called
back to their fatherland to engage in the World War.

In January of 1916, therefore, the tobacco growers of Connecticut met in conference to give
this question serious consideration. Mr. Floyd, the Manager of the Continental Tobacco Corporation,
offered a solution for this difficult problem through the further importation of negro labor.
The response to this suggestion was not immediate, because New England had never had large
experience with negro labor. An intense interest in the experiment, however, was aroused through
a number of men with connections in the South. It was decided that the National League on Urban
Conditions among Negroes, with headquarters in New York City, should further assist in securing
laborers. Because of the seasonal character of the work, an effort was made to get students
from the southern schools by advancing transportation. The New York News, a negro weekly, says
of this conference:

    Thus was born, right in the heart of Yankee Land, the first
    significant move to supplant foreign labor with native labor,
    a step which has resulted in one of the biggest upheavals in
    the North incident to the European war, which has already been
    a boon to the colored American, improving his economic status
    and putting thousands of dollars into his pockets.[56]

The employers of the North felt justified in bringing about a more equitable distribution of
the available labor supply in America. Discussing the labor situation before a conference in
New York, Mr. E.J. Traily, Jr., of the Erie Railroad said:

    The Erie Railroad has employed a large number of the negro
    migrants and we are still in need of more because of the
    abnormal state of labor conditions in this part of the
    country. It is altogether unfair that the southern States
    should enforce laws prohibiting the moving of labor from their
    borders, when there are railroads all over this country that
    would pay good wages to these laborers. I know of one railroad
    company last year, which never had a colored man in the
    service, that was offering large wages and scouring every
    place for colored help. At the same time the South had and
    still has a surplus of colored labor and would not permit it
    to be moved. These conditions actually exist, and I know it.
    I am interested in this thing not alone from the personal side
    of it, but due to the fact of my association with the Erie
    Railroad. I believe that the best thing that this body can
    do, in my judgment, is to pass resolutions demanding that the
    United States Emigration Bureau carry out the act passed by
    Congress empowering the Labor Department to place unoccupied
    men of other parts of the country where labor is needed.[57]

Early in the summer of 1916, the Pennsylvania and Erie Railroads promiscuously picked up trainloads
of negroes from Jacksonville, St. Augustine and Pensacola, Florida. They were at first grouped
in camps. The promise of a long free ride to the North met with instant favor, and wild excitement
ensued as the news circulated. Carloads of negroes began to pour into Pennsylvania. When they
had once touched northern soil and discovered that still higher wages were being offered by
other concerns, many deserted the companies responsible for their presence in the North. Some
drifted to the steel works of the same State; others left for points nearby. Letters written
home brought news of still more enticing fields, and succeeded in stimulating the movement.
Of the 12,000 negroes brought into Pennsylvania by the Pennsylvania Railroad, less than 2,000
remained with the company.[58]

It will no doubt be interesting to know exactly where these negroes settled in the North. For
the purpose of understanding this distribution the North may well be divided according to the
two main lines followed by the migrants in leaving the South. The South and middle Atlantic
States sent the majority of their migrants directly up the Atlantic coast while the south central
States fed the Northwest. There is, of course, no hard line of separation for these two streams.
Laborers were sought in fields most accessible to the centers of industry, but individual choice
as displayed in the extent of voluntary migration carried them everywhere.

The New England States, which were probably the first to attract this labor, were Connecticut
and Massachusetts. The tobacco fields of Connecticut with Hartford as a center received the
first negro laborers as mentioned above. Before a year had passed there were over 3,000 southern
negroes in the city of Hartford. Massachusetts had its new war plants which served as an attraction.
Holyoke received considerable advertisement through the National League on Urban Conditions
among Negroes, and as a result secured a number directly from the South. Boston, which has
always stood as a symbol of hope for those who sought relief from southern conditions, has
not, however, at any time afforded any great variety of occupations for the peasant class of
negroes. The receptions staged by the negro leaders of that city were stimulated apparently
more by the sentimental causes of the movement than any other consideration. Although there
existed in Boston the type of industries which required great numbers of men, barriers prevented
negroes in large numbers from entering them and as a result there was no great influx of migrants
from the South.

The places mentioned above are, of course, only those which received large numbers. Scattered
all over this section of the country were thousands of individuals who, seeking more profitable
employment, broke loose from the crowd congregating at favorite points. New York State with
New York City as its center has received a considerable number. New York City, however, has
been principally a rerouting point. In fact, many of those who subsequently went to New England
first went to New York City. The State of New York recruited its labor here. There came to
New York probably no less than 75,000 negroes, a large portion of whom stopped in New York
City, although Albany, Poughkeepsie, Buffalo and smaller cities received their share.

New Jersey, because of the great number of its industrial plants, was rapidly filled. Newark
alone augmented its colored population within a little over a year by one hundred per cent.
The attractions in this State were the munitions plants, brick yards and wire factories. The
principal cities here that might be mentioned are Newark, Trenton and Jersey City, although
the migration to the last two cities hardly compares in volume to that of Newark. Delaware,
bordering New Jersey, received a few.[59] Washington, the Capital City and the gateway to the
North, already containing the largest negro population of any city in the country was in the
path of the migration and had its increase of population accelerated by the war. A considerable
number of southern negroes found work there, principally in domestic service. Pennsylvania,
the first northern State to begin wholesale importation of labor from the South, is the seat
of the country's largest steel plants and is the terminal of three of the country's greatest
railroad systems. Pittsburgh received perhaps the largest number; Philadelphia and Harrisburg
followed in order. The numerous little industrial centers dotting the State fed from the supply
furnished by the railroads.[60]

The migration to the Northwest was more extensive. Ohio, the State of vital historical association
for negroes, was generously visited. Cleveland, Columbus, Cincinnati, Akron and Youngstown
were popular centers. The coal mines, factories and iron works were most in need of men, and
obtained them without any great difficulty. Indiana, still probably remembered as the delicate
spot in the inquiry following a similar migration thirty-nine years ago, with its very highly
developed industries caught the flood proceeding up the Mississippi valley. Indianapolis was
a popular point although not a satisfactory one for the migrants, who pretty generally left
it for better fields. Gary and Indiana Harbor, more properly satellite cities of Chicago, developed
an almost entirely new negro population.

Missouri, a border State, has one city with a considerably augmented negro population. The
size of the new population of St. Louis can be accounted for by the fact that geographically
it is the first city of the North. East St. Louis, recently made notorious by the reception
which it accorded its newcomers, is surrounded by a number of satellite towns, all of which
made bids for labor from the South and received it. Not a few negro laborers went to Kansas
City from which many were rerouted to other points. Nebraska received a large number of migrants
as a direct result of self-advertisement. Omaha was the city which invited them and received
the bulk of immigration to that State.

Illinois, the one State known throughout the South because of Chicago, received probably the
heaviest quota of any. Located as it is in the center of industry for the Middle West and known
to negroes as a "fair" State, it received through Chicago as many at least as the entire State
of Pennsylvania. Chicago is the center of a cluster of industrial towns. It has served as a
point of distribution through its numerous employment agencies for the territory northwest
and northeast. Michigan has one large city, Detroit, which has recently increased its population
one hundred per cent because of its number of highly developed industries which have supplied
employment for its rapidly increasing population.[61]

The eastern cities which made efforts through various means to augment their labor supply were
Pittsburgh, Philadelphia, Newark, New York City and Hartford. It is manifestly impossible to
get reliable figures on the volume of increase in the negro population of any of these cities.
All that is available is in the form of estimates which can not be too confidently relied upon.
Estimates based on the average number of arrivals from the South per day, the increase in the
school population and the opinions of social agencies which have engaged themselves in adjusting
the newcomers to their new homes appear to agree in the main.

[Footnote 55: These facts appear in the United States Census Reports.]

[Footnote 56: The New York News.]

[Footnote 57: New York Age, January 30, 1917; Christian Recorder, Philadelphia, February 2, 1917.]

[Footnote 58: Ibid.]

[Footnote 59: Fortune, Report on Negro Migration to the East.]

[Footnote 60: Ibid.]

[Footnote 61: These estimates are based upon the reports of investigators sent to make a study
of the condition of the migrants.]

CHAPTER VI

THE DRAINING OF THE BLACK BELT

In order better to understand the migration movement, a special study of it was made for five
adjoining States, Georgia, Florida, Alabama, Mississippi and Louisiana, from which came more
than half of all migrants. The negro population of these five States was 4,115,299, which was
almost half of the negro population of the South. In the particular sections of these States
where the migration was the heaviest, the one crop system, cotton, was general. As a result
of the cotton price demoralization resulting from the war, the labor depression, the ravages
of the cotton boll weevil, and in some regions unusual floods, as already stated, there was
in this section of the South an exceptionally large amount of surplus labor. The several trunk
line railroads directly connecting this section with the northern industrial centers made the
transportation of this labor an easy matter.

In 1915, the labor depression in Georgia was critical and work at remunerative wages was scarce.
In Atlanta strong pressure was brought to bear to have the negroes employed in cleaning the
streets replaced by whites who were out of work. It was reported that the organized charities
of Macon, in dealing with the question of the unemployed, urged whites employing negroes to
discharge the blacks and hire whites. Mr. Bridges Smith, the mayor of the city, bitterly opposed
this suggestion. When the 1915 cotton crop began to ripen it was proposed to compel the unemployed
negroes in the towns to go to the fields and pick cotton. Commenting editorially on this, the
Atlanta Constitution said:

    The problem of the unemployed in Albany, Georgia, is being
    dealt with practically. All negroes who have not regular
    employment are offered it in the cotton fields, the immense
    crop requiring more labor than the plantations ordinarily
    have. If the unemployed refuse the opportunity, the order
    "move on" and out of the community is given by the chief of
    police, and the order must be obeyed. Though the government is
    taking up very systematically the problem of the unemployed,
    its solving will be slow, and the government aid for a long
    time will have to be supplementary to work in this direction,
    initiated in communities, municipalities and States, where the
    problem of the unemployed is usually complex.[62]

In the course of time, when the negroes did leave, they departed in such large numbers that
their going caused alarm. Because they left at night the number of negroes going north from
the immediate vicinity was not generally realized. One night nearly fifty of Tifton boarded
northbound passenger trains, which already carried, it is said, some three hundred negroes.
Labor agents had been very active in that section all fall, but so cleverly had they done their
work that officers had not been able to get a line on them. For several weeks, the daily exodus,
it is said, had ranged from ten to twenty-five.[63]

Columbus was an assembling point for migrants going from east Alabama and west Georgia. Railroad
tickets would be bought from local stations to Columbus, and there the tickets or transportation
for the North, mainly to Chicago, would be secured. Americus was in many respects similarly
affected, having had many of its important industries thereby paralyzed. Albany, a railroad
center, became another assembling point for migrants from another area. Although difficulties
would be experienced in leaving the smaller places directly for the North, it was easy to purchase
a ticket to Albany and later depart from that town. The result was that Albany was the point
of departure for several thousand negroes, of whom a very large percentage did not come from
the towns or Dougherty county in which Albany is situated.[64]

A negro minister, well acquainted with the situation in southwest Georgia, was of the opinion
that the greatest number had gone from Thomas and Mitchell counties and the towns of Pelham
and Thomasville. Valdosta, with a population of about 8,000 equally divided between the races
became a clearing house for many migrants from southern Georgia. The pastor of one of the leading
churches said that he lost twenty per cent of his members. The industrial insurance companies
reported a twenty per cent loss in membership.[65] Waycross,[66] a railroad center in the wire
grass section of the State, with a population of 7,700 whites and 6,700 negroes, suffered greatly
from the migration. Hundreds of negroes in this section were induced by the employment bureaus
and industrial companies in eastern States to abandon their homes. From Brunswick, one of the
two principal seaports in Georgia, went 1,000 negroes, the chief occupation of whom was stevedoring.
Savannah, another important seaport on the south Atlantic coast, with a population of about
70,000, saw the migration attain unusually large proportions, so as to cause almost a panic
and to lead to drastic measures to check it.

The migration was from all sections of Florida. The heaviest movements were from west Florida,
from Tampa and Jacksonville. Capitola early reported that a considerable number of negroes
left that vicinity, some going north, a few to Jacksonville and others to south Florida to
work on the truck farms and in the phosphate mines. A large number of them migrated from Tallahassee
to Connecticut to work in the tobacco fields. Owing to the depredations of the boll weevil,
many others went north. Most of the migration in west Florida, however, was rural as there
are very few large towns in that section. Yet, although they had no such assembling points
as there were in other parts of the South, about thirty or thirty-five per cent of the labor
left. In north central Florida near Apalachicola fifteen or twenty per cent of the labor left.
In middle Florida around Ocala and Gainesville probably twenty to twenty-five per cent of the
laborers left, chiefly because of the low wages. The stretch of territory between Pensacola
and Jacksonville was said to be one of the most neglected sections in the South, the migration
being largely of farm tenants with a considerable number of farm owners. There were cases of
the migration of a whole community including the pastor of the church.[67]

Live Oak, a small town in Sewanee county, experienced the same upheaval, losing a large proportion
of its colored population. Dunnelon, a small town in the southern part of Marion county, soon
found itself in the same situation. Lakeland, in Polk county, lost about one-third of its negroes.
Not less than one-fourth of the black population of Orlando was swept into this movement. Probably
half of the negroes of Palatka, Miami and De Land, migrated as indicated by schools and churches,
the membership of which decreased one-half. From 3,000 to 5,000 negroes migrated from Tampa
and Hillsboro county. Jacksonville, the largest city in Florida, with a population of about
35,000 negroes, lost about 6,000 or 8,000 of its own black population and served as an assembling
point for 14,000 or 15,000 others who went to the North.[68]

By September, 1916, the movement in Alabama was well under way. In Selma there was made the
complaint that a new scheme was being used to entice negroes away. Instead of advertising in
Alabama papers, the schemes of the labor agents were proclaimed through papers published in
other States and circulated in Alabama. As a result there was a steady migration of negroes
from Alabama to the North and to points in Tennessee and Arkansas where conditions were more
inviting and wages higher. Estimates appear to indicate, however, that Alabama, through the
migration, lost a larger proportion of her negro population than did any one of the other southern
States.[69]

From Eufaula in the eastern part of the State it was reported in September that trains leaving
there on Sundays in 1916 were packed with negroes going north, that hundreds left, joining
crowds from Clayton, Clio and Ozark. There seemed to be a "free ride" every Sunday and many
were giving up lucrative positions there to go. The majority of these negroes, however, went
from the country where they had had a disastrous experience with the crops of the year 1916
on account of the July floods.[70] By October the exodus from Dallas county had reached such
alarming proportions that farmers and business men were devising means to stop it.

Bullock county, with a working population of 15,000 negroes, lost about one-third and in addition
about 1,500 non-workers. The reports of churches as to the loss of membership at certain points
justify this conclusion. Hardly any of the churches escaped without a serious loss and the
percentage in most cases was from twenty-five to seventy per cent.[71] It seemed that these
intolerable conditions did not obtain in Union Springs. According to persons living in Kingston,
the wealthiest and the most prosperous negroes of the district migrated. In October, 1916,
some of the first large groups left Mobile, Alabama, for the Northwest. The report says: "Two
trainloads of negroes were sent over the Louisville and Nashville Railroad to work in the railroad
yards and on the tracks in the West. Thousands more are expected to leave during the next month."

As soon as the exodus got well under way, Birmingham became one of the chief assembling points
in the South for the migrants and was one of the chief stations on the way north. Thousands
came from the flood and boll weevil districts to Birmingham. The records of the negro industrial
insurance companies showed the effects of the migration both from and to Birmingham. The Atlanta
Mutual Insurance Company lost 500 of its members and added 2,000. Its debit for November, 1916,
was $502.25; for November, 1917, it was $740. The business of the Union Central Relief Association
was greatly affected by the migration. The company in 1916 lost heavily. In 1917 it cleared
some money.

The State of Mississippi, with a larger percentage of negroes than any other State in the Union,
naturally lost a large number of its working population. There has been in progress for a number
of years a movement from the hill counties of the State of Mississippi to the Delta, and from
the Delta to Arkansas. The interstate migration has resulted from the land poverty of the hill
country and from intimidation of the "poor whites" particularly in Amite, Lincoln, Franklin
and Wilkinson counties. In 1908 when the floods and boll weevil worked such general havoc in
the southwestern corner of the State, labor agents from the Delta went down and carried away
thousands of families. It is estimated that more than 8,000 negroes left Adams county during
the first two years of the boll weevil period. Census figures for 1910 show that the southwestern
counties suffered a loss of 18,000 negroes. The migration of recent years to adjacent States
has been principally to Arkansas.[72]

Jackson, the capital of Mississippi, seriously felt the migration. The majority of the "lower
middle class" of negroes, twenty-five per cent of the business men and fully one-third of the
professional men left the city--in all between 2,000 and 5,000. Two of the largest churches
lost their pastors and about 200 of each of their memberships. Other churches suffered a decrease
of forty per cent in their communicants. Two-thirds of the remaining families in Jackson are
part families with relatives who have recently migrated to the North.

For years the negroes of Greenville have been unsettled and dissatisfied to the extent of leaving.
Negroes came from Leland to Greenville to start for the North. This condition has obtained
there ever since the World's Fair in Chicago, when families first learned to go to that section
whenever opportunities for establishment were offered them. Although the negroes from Greenville
are usually prosperous, during this exodus they have mortgaged their property or placed it
in the hands of friends on leaving for the North. Statistics indicate that in the early part
of the movement at least 1,000 left the immediate vicinity of Greenville and since that time
others have continued to go in large numbers.[73]

Greenwood, with a population evenly balanced between the white and black, had passed through
the unusual crisis of bad crops and the invasion of the boll weevil. The migration from this
point, therefore, was at first a relief to the city rather than a loss. The negroes, in the
beginning, therefore, moved into the Delta and out to Arkansas until the call for laborers
in the North. The migration from this point to the North reached its height in the winter and
spring of 1916 and 1917. The migrants would say that they were going to Memphis, but when you
next heard from them they would be in Chicago, St. Louis or Detroit. The police at the Illinois
Central depot had been handling men roughly. When they were rude to one, ten or twelve left.
Young men usually left on night trains. Next day their friends would say, "Ten left last night,"
or, "Twelve left last night." In this manner the stream started. Friends would notify others
of the time and place of special trains. The type of negro leaving is indicated in the decline
in the church membership. Over 300 of those who left were actively connected with some church.
During the summer of 1917, 100 houses stood vacant in the town and over 300 were abandoned
in the McShein addition. As the crops were gathered people moved in from the country, from
the southern part of the State and from the "hills" generally to take the places of those who
had left for the North.

There was no concerted movement from Clarksdale, a town with a population of about 400 whites
and 600 blacks; but families appeared to slip away because of the restlessness and uneasiness
in evidence everywhere. From the rural district around there was considerable migration to
Arkansas, but considerable numbers were influenced to leave for Buffalo and Chicago. Mound
Bayou lost some of its population also to Arkansas and the North, as they could buy land cheaper
in the former and find more lucrative employment in the latter. Natchez did not suffer a serious
loss of population until the invasion of the boll weevil and the floods.

Hattiesburg, a large lumber center, was at the beginning of the exodus, almost depopulated.
Some of the first migrants went to Pennsylvania but the larger number went to Chicago. It became
a rallying point for many negroes who assembled there ostensibly to go to New Orleans, at which
place they easily provided for their transportation to Chicago and other points in the North.
From Laurel in Jones county, a large sawmill district, it is estimated that between 4,000 and
5,000 negroes moved north. About 3,000 left Meridian for Chicago, St. Louis, Detroit and Pittsburgh.
Indianola, a town with a number of negro independent enterprises, also became upset by this
movement, losing a considerable number of progressive families. Gulfport, a coast town a short
distance from New Orleans, lost about one-third of its negro population. About 45 families
left Bobo for Arkansas, and 15 families went to the North. Johnstown, Mississippi, lost 150
of its 400 negroes.[74]

The owners of turpentine industries and lumber plants in southeastern Mississippi were especially
affected by the exodus. In Hinds, Copiah, Lincoln, Rankin, Newton and Lake counties, many white
residents rather than suffer their crops to be lost, worked in the fields. It was reported
that numbers of these whites were leaving for the Delta and for Kentucky, Tennessee and Arkansas.
Firms there attempted to look in the North that they might send for the negroes whom they had
previously employed, promising them an advance in wages.

At the same time the Illinois Central Railroad was carrying from New Orleans and other parts
of Louisiana thousands into Indiana, Illinois and Michigan. At the Illinois Central Railroad
station in that city, the agent had been having his hands full taking names of colored laborers
wanting and waiting to go North. About the first of April, 1917, there came also the reports
from New Orleans that 300 negro laborers left there on the Southern Pacific steamer for New
York, and 500 more left later on another of the same company's steamships bound also for New
York, it was said, to work for the company. Thousands thus left for the North and West and
East, the number reaching over 1,200.

It is an interesting fact that this migration from the South followed the path marked out by
the Underground Railroad of antebellum days. Negroes from the rural districts moved first to
the nearest village or town, then to the city. On the plantations it was not regarded safe
to arrange for transportation to the North through receiving and sending letters. On the other
hand, in the towns and cities there was more security in meeting labor agents. The result of
it was that cities like New Orleans, Birmingham, Jacksonville, Savannah and Memphis became
concentration points. From these cities migrants were rerouted along the lines most in favor.

The principal difference between this course and the Underground Railroad was that in the later
movement the southernmost States contributed the largest numbers. This perhaps is due in part
to the selection of Florida and Georgia by the first concerns offering the inducement of free
transportation, and at the same time it accounts for the very general and intimate knowledge
of the movement by the people in States through which they were forced to pass. In Hattiesburg,
Mississippi, for example, the first intimation of a great movement of negroes to the North
came through reports that thousands of negroes were leaving Florida for the North. To the negroes
of Florida, South Carolina, Virginia and Georgia the North means Pennsylvania, New Jersey,
New York and New England. The route is more direct, and it is this section of the northern
expanse of the United States that gets widest advertisement through tourists, and passengers
and porters on the Atlantic coast steamers. The northern newspapers with the greatest circulation
are from Pennsylvania and New York, and the New York colored weeklies are widely read. Reports
from all of these south Atlantic States indicate that comparatively few persons ventured into
the Northwest when a better known country lay before them.

The Pennsylvania Railroad, one of the first to import laborers in large numbers, reports that
of the 12,000 persons brought to Pennsylvania over its road, all but 2,000 were from Florida
and Georgia. The tendency was to continue along the first definite path. Each member of the
vanguard controlled a small group of friends at home, if only the members of his immediate
family. Letters sent back, representing that section of the North and giving directions concerning
the route best known, easily influenced the next groups to join their friends rather than explore
new fields. In fact, it is evident throughout the movement that the most congested points in
the North when the migration reached its height, were those favorite cities to which the first
group had gone.[75] An intensive study of a group of 77 families from the South, selected at
random in Chicago, showed but one family from Florida and no representation at all from North
and South Carolina. A tabulation of figures and facts from 500 applications for work by the
Chicago League on Urban Conditions among Negroes gives but a few persons from North Carolina,
twelve from South Carolina and one from Virginia. The largest number, 102, came from Georgia.
Applicants for work in New York from the south Atlantic States are overwhelming.[76]

For the east and west south central States, the Northwest was more accessible and better known.
St. Louis and Cincinnati are the nearest northern cities to the South and excursions have frequently
been run there from New Orleans, through the State of Mississippi. There are in St. Louis,
as in other more northern cities, little communities of negroes from the different sections
of the South. The mail order and clothing houses of Chicago have advertised this city throughout
the South. The convenience of transportation makes the Northwest a popular destination for
migrants from Mississippi, Alabama, Louisiana, Texas and Tennessee. The Illinois Central Railroad
runs directly to New Orleans through Tennessee and Mississippi.

There were other incidental factors which determined the course of the movement. Free trains
from different sections broke new paths by overcoming the obstacles of funds for transportation.
No questions were asked of the passengers, and, in some instances, as many as were disposed
to leave were carried. When once they had advanced beyond the Mason and Dixon line, many fearing
that fees for transportation would be deducted from subsequent pay, if they were in the employ
of the parties who, as they understood, were advancing their fares, deserted the train at almost
any point that looked attractive. Employment could be easily secured and at good wages. Many
of these unexpected and premature destinations became the nucleuses for small colonies whose
growth was stimulated and assisted by the United States postal service.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

[Footnote 62: Atlanta Constitution, August 28, 1915.]

[Footnote 63: Ibid., December 13, 1916.]

[Footnote 64: A leading colored physician of Albany in commenting on the exodus said: "A considerable
number went from town and county. The number was not near so great, however, as from other
counties." He was of the opinion that not more than eight or ten families had left. He said
that his practice had not been affected. Individuals came in from other sections and took the
place of those who went away. He was of the opinion that the fever was about over. This was
due to the shortage of labor created by the draft, the increase in wages and better treatment,
particularly the latter. Tenants on plantations were receiving better treatment than they formerly
received. Some plantation owners as an inducement to their tenants were furnishing each with
a cow and a sow. Farm labor which was formerly paid $8 to $12 per month, now received from
$20 to $30 per month. He said he knew of one plantation owner who was paying his hands $1.25
per day. This doctor said he was reliably informed that many negroes had left Lee and Calhoun
counties and the whites had to go in the fields and plow. As a result of the exodus, the white
and colored men of Albany had got closer together. He had recently been elected a member of
the Albany Chamber of Commerce, and he understood that about twelve colored men had been invited
to become members of the Chamber to assist in working for the development of the county.

One of the colored druggists in Georgia said that Albany was a central point, and that a great
many came from Cuthbert, Arlington, Leary and Calhoun, Early and Miller counties to Albany
as a starting point for the North. Many went from Albany to Chicago and Philadelphia, but he
was of the opinion that the largest number had gone to New Jersey. Migration has been affected
by the draft and new opportunities opening up in the South. He said that whites became alarmed
and called a meeting and invited some colored persons to consult with them.--Work, Report on
Migration from Georgia.]

[Footnote 65: "The migration of negroes from this city to the North set in again this week,
after a comparative lull of two months. A party of twelve left here yesterday for Jersey City,
while twenty others are expected to leave shortly. Many women are going with the men, in some
cases leaving their children. Stories of suffering from cold, brought back by negroes during
this winter, checked the movement considerably. Several hundred negroes will leave here this
spring."--Atlanta Constitution, March 26, 1917.]

[Footnote 66: A report from there, in the Savannah Morning News, of December 3, 1916, said:
"Hundreds of negroes in this section recently have been fleeced by white men posing as agents
of large employment bureaus and industrial companies in the eastern States. The most recent
instance of the easy marks is reported from Coffee county, but it is in line with what has
been happening in other counties. The so-called agent collects a registration fee, giving in
return for the money, usually one or two dollars, a card which is said to entitle the bearer
to a position at such and such a plant. The negroes get on the train on the date specified,
the agent meeting them at the station. He tells them he will have a party ticket for the entire
number and to tell the conductor to collect their fares from him. The negroes of course leave
home for the point where they think they will be given work, and apparently are a happy lot.
But when ticket collecting time comes there is another story to tell.

"Thirty-seven negroes the other day boarded a northbound train at Douglas for Pittsburgh. The
agent was on hand to check each one and then he got aboard, or so the negroes thought. A few
miles from Douglas the conductor found he had thirty-seven ticketless passengers. And none
of the negroes had the money to pay the fare to Pittsburgh. The train was stopped, and the
negroes returned home, wiser and vowing they were 'done with leaving home.' Quite a number
of negroes have come to Waycross to meet agents and go north. Before coming here the negroes
of course had contributed."]

[Footnote 67: Work, Report on the Migration from Florida.]

[Footnote 68: Work, Report on the Migration from Florida.]

[Footnote 69: Work, Report on the Migration from Alabama.]

[Footnote 70: Montgomery (Alabama) Advertiser, September 27, 1916.]

[Footnote 71: The investigator had been in Union Springs on a Saturday before there was a migration.
The crowds on the streets were so great that it was difficult for one to pass. On Saturday,
November 17, 1917, the investigator was again in Union Springs. It was an ideal autumn day.
Good crops had been made in the county. Especially high prices were being paid for all sorts
of farm produce. The market season was on. Court was in session. The streets, however, had
about the crowds to be found on some days, other than Saturday, before the migration began.]

[Footnote 72: The reasons back of this, as obtained from migrants themselves, are that, except
in the town of Mound Bayou, negroes have not been encouraged to own property or rent, but to
work on shares; in Arkansas it is possible to buy good land cheaply and on reasonable terms;
inducements are offered by Arkansas in the form of better treatment and schools; there are
no such "excessive" taxes as are required in the Mississippi Delta to protect them from the
overflows; the boll weevil has not yet seriously affected that State, and a small farmer may
be fairly independent in Arkansas.]

[Footnote 73: The lumber mills and the local corporations provide a great part of the work
for laborers in the city. Wages last year ranged from $1.25 to $1.50 a day. Wages at present
are $1.75 and $2 a day. Cotton picking last year brought 60 and 75 cents a hundred; at present
$2 is paid for every hundred pounds picked. The city has enacted "move on" laws intending to
get rid of drones. The police, it is said, could not distinguish drones from "all negroes."

It was further complained that the police deputies and sheriffs are too free with the use of
their clubs and guns when a negro is involved. It was related that Dr. ----, practising 47
years in Greenville, Mississippi, was driving his buggy in a crowded street on circus day when
he was commanded by a policeman to drive to one side and let a man pass. He replied that he
could not because he himself was jammed. He was commanded again and then dragged from the buggy,
clubbed and haled into the police court and fined. The officer who arrested him swore that
he had given frequent trouble, which was untrue according to reliable testimony and his own
statement. This incident is also told:

A policeman's friend needed a cook. The policeman drove by a negro home and, seeing a woman
on the porch, told her to get in the buggy. No questions were permitted. She was carried to
his friend's home and told to work. The woman prepared one meal and left the city for the North.--Johnson,
Report on the Migration from Mississippi.]

[Footnote 74: Johnson, Report on the Migration from Mississippi.]

[Footnote 75: Johnson, Report on the Migration from Mississippi.]

[Footnote 76: Ibid.]

CHAPTER VII

EFFORTS TO CHECK THE MOVEMENT

The departure of the first negroes usually elicited no concern from the authorities. It was
assumed that their actions were merely expressions of the negro's "love for travel," and that
they would soon return. When, however, they did not return and hosts of others followed, the
white South became deeply concerned and endeavored to check the movement. Throughout the exodus
drastic legislation and force were employed. In Alabama, Arkansas, Mississippi and Georgia
laws were passed in an effort to suppress the activities of labor agents. Licenses were made
prohibitively high; labor agents were arrested and heavily fined. In some cases their coming
was penalized to prohibit their operations entirely and they frequently suffered physical injury.

In Florida labor recruiting early assumed a serious aspect. Precaution was, therefore, taken
to impede the progress of the work of labor agents among negroes, at first by moral suasion
and then by actual force. The cities and towns of this State enacted measures requiring a very
high license of labor agents, imposing in case of failure to comply with these regulations,
a penalty of imprisonment. For example, in Tampa when these operations were brought to the
attention of the authorities, Joe Robinson, a negro officer, was detailed to investigate the
matter. He discovered that one Joyce and another negro named Alex Reeves were implicated in
the movement. These men were charged with having collected $7 from each of several hundred
negroes who wanted to go to Pennsylvania. A meeting among the negroes of Tampa was then held
to secure pledges of assistance for the negro officer, then making an effort to prevent the
exodus. Being under the impression that the ignorant members of their race were being imposed
upon by agents from without, many of these leading negroes pledged themselves to assist in
the suppression of it.[77]

In Jacksonville, where the labor agents flourished, the City Council passed an ordinance requiring
that migration agents should pay $1,000 license to recruit labor sent out of the State under
penalty of $600 fine and 60 days in jail. Several police detectives were assigned the task
of arresting those who were said to be spreading false reports among negroes there to the effect
that special trains were ready on various specified dates to take them to points in the North.
When, therefore, large crowds of negroes gathered near the Union Depot in Jacksonville, awaiting
the so-called special train, they were handled rather roughly by the police when it was shown
that they had not purchased tickets and there was no one to vouch for their transportation.

The same condition with respect to the apparent necessity for prohibitive measures obtained
in Georgia. The local governments early took action to prevent the drain of the labor population
to northern States through the operation of labor agents. It was soon observed, however, that
these agents worked out their schemes so clandestinely that it was impossible to check the
movement by such measures. Fearing that the general unrest among the negroes of the city and
the efforts that were being put forth on the part of the authorities to keep them from being
transported from Macon to the North, might result in a riot with which the city authorities
would not be able to cope, Chief of Police George S. Riley recommended to the civil service
commission that forty magazine rifles be purchased for the police department.[78] At that time
the police had only their pistols and clubs. It was said that surliness then existed among
certain negroes and the police wanted to be able to cope with any situation that might arise.
The City Council, thereafter, raised the license fee for labor agents to $25,000, requiring
also that such an agent be recommended by ten local ministers, ten manufacturers and twenty-five
business men. The police of Macon were very active in running down labor agents violating this law.

Americus was honeycombed and carefully watched and searched for persons inducing negroes to
migrate, as there was a large exodus of negroes from this city to the tobacco fields of Connecticut.
Negroes attempting to leave were arrested and held to see if by legal measures they could be
deterred from going North. The officers in charge of this raid were armed with State warrants
charging misdemeanors and assisted by a formidable array of policemen and deputy sheriffs.
Negroes were roughly taken from the trains and crowded into the prisons to await trial for
these so-called misdemeanors. Although the majority of them were set free after their trains
had left the city, the leaders in most cases suffered humiliation at the hands of the officers
of the law.[79]

At Thomasville, a white man and a negro were arrested, charged with the usual crime of being
labor agents. Much excitement followed. Fearing serious results, the colored ministers of this
city endeavored to stop the exodus. A committee of their most prominent citizens met with the
mayor and discussed the matter freely. They arranged for a large mass meeting of white and
colored citizens who undertook to cooperate in bringing the exodus to an end. The white citizens
of Waycross experienced the same trouble with labor agents, but had much difficulty in finding
out exactly who they were and how they contrived to make such inroads on the population.[80]

The situation became more critical in Savannah, one of the largest assembling points for migrants
in the South. When the loss of labor became so serious and ordinary efforts to check it failed,
more drastic measures were resorted to. On the thirteenth of August, for example, when there
spread through the city the rumor that two special trains would leave for the North there followed
great commotion among the negroes, who, already much disturbed by the agitation for and against
the movement, were easily induced to start for the North. When, at about five o'clock that
morning, 2,000 negroes assembled at the station for this purpose, the county police, augmented
by a detachment of city officers, appeared at the station and attempted to clear the tracks;
but the crowd being so large the officers finally found their task impossible, for as they
would clear one section of the tracks the crowd would surge to another. The crowd was extremely
orderly and good natured and the two arrests that were made were for minor offenses. As these
trains failed to move according to orders, over 300 of this group paid their own fares and
proceeded to the North.[81]

A few days later Savannah reached a crisis in the labor movement agitation, when over 100 negroes
were placed under arrest at the Union Depot and sent to the police barracks. Several patrol
wagon loads of police arrived at the station and immediately a cordon was formed by the police
around all negroes in the lobby and every exit from the station was guarded. By this unusual
sight many persons were attracted to the station and excitement ran high. Many negroes were
arrested with a view to finding out the leaders of the movement, but upon failure to discover
the facts in the case the lieutenant in charge ordered the men in custody to be incarcerated
on charges of loitering.

To show how groundless these charges were, one need but to note the character of some of the
persons arrested. Four carpenters from Lumpkin, Georgia, had just arrived and were waiting
for a contractor for whom they had agreed to work a short distance from the city. Another young
man entered the station to purchase a ticket to Burroughs, Georgia, to see relatives, but he
was not only incarcerated but had to give a bond of $100 for his appearance next morning. Another
young man, working for the Pullman Company, entered the depot to cash a check for $11 when
he was arrested, sent to jail and searched. Still another, a middle-aged man of most pleasing
appearance, had just arrived from Jacksonville, Florida, and was waiting in the station until
the time to proceed by boat that afternoon to New York. On one occasion, J.H. Butler, manager
of the Savannah Tribune, a negro newspaper, was arrested charged with violation of the city
and State law of sending labor out of the city. He was obliged to give bond of $400 to appear
in court the next day. At the same time seventeen college boys who were waiting at a New York
steamer dock were also apprehended. The trial of the men before the recorder proved farcical,
not a single one of the hundred or more prisoners being required to testify. After the chief
of the detective force and several police lieutenants had testified, Recorder Schwartz ordered
the men all released, but not before he had taken occasion to upbraid the police force for
the unnecessarily large number of arrests.[82]

Alabama was equally alive to the need to suppress the migration propaganda among negroes. To
this end the Montgomery City Commission on September 19, 1916, passed an ordinance to the effect
that any person who would entice, persuade or influence any laborer or other person to leave
the city of Montgomery for the purpose of being employed at any other place as a laborer must
on conviction be fined not less than one nor more than one hundred dollars, or may be sentenced
to hard labor for the city, for not more than six months, one or both in the discretion of
the court. Labor agents and other leaders both white and black were arrested throughout the
State in accordance with the usual custom of preferring technical charges.[83]

The treatment of the movement in Mississippi was no exception to the rule. At Jackson, the
"pass riders," as they were called, were so molested by the police that they were finally driven
from the town. In the same town the citizens were reported to have forced the railroads to
discontinue the use of passes on the threat of damaging their interests and influencing decisions
in court cases. Negroes were secretly enticed away, however, after they had been dispersed
from the railway stations and imprisoned when in the act of boarding the trains. The police
interfered at one time with negroes leaving, especially when it was suspected that they were
leaving on passes. To circumvent this, negroes would go two or three stations below Jackson
where there were no policemen and board the trains. It was the unanimous opinion of whites
and blacks who observed the almost frantic efforts to leave the town, that any attempt to hinder
by intimidation or by making it difficult to leave, simply served to make them more determined
to leave.[84]

At Greenville, Mississippi, trains were stopped. Negroes were dragged therefrom and others
were prevented from boarding them. Strangers were searched for evidence that might convict
them as labor agents. It is also reported that local authorities were reprimanded for interfering
with interstate commerce. At Greenwood there was much complaint against the brutality of the
police, whose efforts to intimidate negroes carried them beyond bounds. A chartered car carrying
fifty men and women was sidetracked at Brookhaven for three days. The man conducting the passengers
was arrested, but when no charge was brought against him, he was released.[85]

A Hattiesburg, Mississippi, ticket agent attempted on the advice of citizens to interfere with
negroes leaving by refusing to sell tickets. Some one called the attention of the general superintendent
to the matter. Thereafter the man was courteous and even assisted the migrants. Police arrested
one or two men at the station, and, according to one of the men, made the crowd so angry that
they swore they would not stop until all had gone. There are cited further instances of letters
to plantation hands which were detained and telegrams which were delayed. At Meridian, Mississippi,
a trainload of negroes en route to the North was held up by the chief of police on a technical
charge. It is said that the United States marshal arrested him and placed him under heavy bond
for delaying the train. The federal authorities were importuned to stop the movement. They
withdrew the assistance of the Employment Department, but admitted that they could not stop
the interstate migration.[86]

One remarked, however, "It will scarcely be possible, to make a sectional issue of these Columbus
convictions, as the charge of 'enticing away of labor' in that country is aimed at certain
Arkansas planters who carried away several carloads of negroes to work on their places, leaving
the Mississippi employers without the labor to gather or grow their crops. It can not, therefore,
be interpreted as an attempt to keep the negro in semislavery in the South and prevent him
from going to work at better wages in the northern munition factories; it is only an effort
to protect Mississippi employers from Arkansas planters."[87]

The alarm felt over the exodus prompted the mayor of New Orleans to telegraph the president
of the Illinois Central Railroad, asking that his road stop carrying negroes to the North.
The latter replied that he had viewed with much concern the heavy exodus of negro labor from
the South during the past year, and, because of his very important interest in that section,
it was not to his advantage to encourage it, but as common carriers, they could not refuse
to sell tickets or to provide the necessary transportation. It seemed to him that as long as
their friends and kinsmen who had preceded them to the North and East were receiving a high
scale of wages, the South would have to look for continued movement.[88]

After having enforced these drastic measures without securing satisfactory results, and having
seen that any attempt to hold the negroes by force resulted apparently in an increased determination
to leave, there was resort to the policy of frightening the negroes away from the North by
circulating rumors as to the misfortunes to be experienced there. Negroes were then warned
against the rigors of the northern winter and the death rate from pneumonia and tuberculosis.
Social workers in the North reported frequent cases of men with simple colds who actually believed
that they had developed "consumption." Speakers who wished to discourage the exodus reported
"exact" figures on the death rate of the migrants in the North that were astounding. As, for
example, it was said by one Reverend Mr. Parks that there were 2,000 of them sick in Philadelphia.
The editor of a leading white paper in Jackson, Mississippi, made the remark that he feared
that the result of the first winter's experience in the North would prove serious to the South,
in so far as it would remove the bugbear of the northern climate. The returned migrants were
encouraged to speak in disparagement of the North and to give wide publicity to their utterances,
emphasizing incidents of suffering reported through the press.

When such efforts as these failed, however, the disconcerted planters and business men of the
South resorted to another plan. Reconciliation and persuasion were tried. Meetings were held
and speakers were secured and advised what to say. In cities and communities where contact
on this plane had been infrequent, it was a bit difficult to approach the subject. The press
of Georgia gave much space to the discussion of the movement and what ought to be done to stop
it. The consensus of opinion of the white papers in the State was that the negro had not been
fairly treated, and that better treatment would be one of the most effective means of checking
the migration. Mob violence, it was pointed out, was one of the chief causes of the exodus.[89]

The Tifton (Georgia) Gazette commenting on the causes said:

    They have allowed negroes to be lynched, five at a time,
    on nothing stronger than suspicion; they have allowed whole
    sections to be depopulated of them (notably in several north
    Georgia counties); they have allowed them to be whitecapped
    and to be whipped, and their homes burned, with only the
    weakest and most spasmodic efforts to apprehend or punish
    those guilty--when any efforts were made at all. Loss of much
    of the State's best labor is one of the prices Georgia is
    paying for unchecked mob activity against negroes often
    charged only with ordinary crimes. Current dispatches from
    Albany, Georgia, in the center of the section apparently most
    affected, and where efforts are being made to stop the exodus
    by spreading correct information among the negroes, say that
    the heaviest migration of negroes has been from those counties
    in which there have been the worst outbreaks against negroes.
    It is developed by investigation that where there have been
    lynchings, the negroes have been most eager to believe what
    the emigration agents have told them of plots for the removal
    or extermination of the race. Comparatively few negroes have
    left Dougherty county, which is considered significant in
    view of the fact that this is one of the counties in southwest
    Georgia in which a lynching has never occurred.

At Thomasville, Georgia, a mass meeting of colored citizens of the town with many from the
country was held at the court house and addresses were made by several prominent white men,
as well as by several colored with a view to taking some steps in regard to the exodus of negroes
from this section to the North and West. The whole sentiment of the meeting was very amicable,
the negroes applauding enthusiastically the speeches of the white men and the advice given
by them. Resolutions were drawn up by a committee expressing the desire that the people of
the two races continue to live together as they have done in the past and that steps be taken
to adjust any difference between them.[90]

After a conference of three days at Waycross, Georgia, the negroes came to a decision as to
the best manner in which to present their cause to the white people with a view to securing
their cooperation towards the improvement of conditions in the South to make that section more
habitable. "There are four things of which our people complain," they said, "and this conference
urges our white friends to secure for us these things with all possible speed. First, more
protection at the hands of the law. We ask that the law of the State, made and enforced by
white men, should be made to apply with exact justice to both races. We have no sympathy for
criminals, but we ask that the innocent shall be protected to the fullest extent of the law.
Second, that more liberal provisions be made for the education of our people." They commended
Governor Dorsey for his courageous recommendation in his inaugural address that an agricultural
school should be established for negroes in some center in southern Georgia, and asked their
friends everywhere to urge the members of the legislature from the various counties to put
Governor Dorsey's noble sentiments into law. These memorialists felt, too, that as far as possible,
wages should be in keeping with the cost of living, and that the white people generally should
take an interest in the general welfare of the negroes.[91]

Tuskegee Institute was also quick to offer a remedy for the migration. In the latter part of
September, 1916, the institution made a strong effort to persuade the negro farmers to remain
on the land instead of going to the cities. Conferences were held with the bankers of Tuskegee
and with many planters of Macon county and a method of dealing with the situation was worked
out. This method embraced a number of helpful suggestions as to how to solve their many perplexing
problems.[92] At the twenty-sixth annual negro conference at Tuskegee Institute, the institution
took that occasion to send through certain declarations a message to the negroes of the South.
These declarations recited the distress and suffering impelling the negroes to migrate, expressing
the appreciation of the necessity to do something to better their condition by embracing the
new opportunities offered them in the North. On the other hand, this institution felt that
there were many permanent opportunities for the masses of the colored people in the South,
which is now entering upon a great era of development. Among these are the millions of acres
of land yet to be cultivated, cities to be built, railroads to be extended and mines to be
worked. These memorialists considered it of still greater importance to the negro that in the
South they have acquired land, buildings, etc., valued at about five hundred million dollars.
The negroes were, therefore, urged to stay on the soil which they owned.

Addressing a word to the white people of the South, the conference said that the disposition
of so many of the blacks to leave is not because they do not love the Southland but because
they believe that in the North they will not only have more opportunity to get more money but
that they will get better treatment, better protection under the law and better school facilities
for their children. The conference urged, therefore, that the southern white people avail themselves
of their greatest opportunity to cooperate with the blacks in the various communities and have
a thorough understanding as to working for the common welfare of all. The delegates believed
that the time had come for the best element of the whites and blacks to unite to protect the
interests of both races to the end that more effective work may be done in the upbuilding of
a greater South.[93]

In the same way the people of Mississippi soon discovered that any attempt forcibly to hold
negroes resulted apparently in an increased determination to leave. Nor was it sufficient to
warn the negroes against the rigors of the northern winter and the death rate from pneumonia
and tuberculosis. In Greenwood, Mississippi, the difficulty was circumvented by using the Red
Cross and the food conservation meetings as a forum for the discussion of the movement. This
was the first time that the negroes and whites of Greenwood had met to discuss matters of mutual
welfare. Bishop W.P. Thirkield of New Orleans addressed a body of negroes and whites on the
movement. He suggested that whites get representative colored persons together and find the
cause. He also suggested a remedy through better treatment, more wages and more cooperation
between the races. Negro ministers stated that they were offered sums of money by bankers,
planters and merchants to speak in discouragement of the movement. Some spoke, and others,
by far the greater number, seem to have remained neutral.[94]

It was found necessary to increase wages from ten to twenty-five per cent and in some cases
as much as 100 per cent to hold labor. The reasons for migration given by negroes were sought.
In almost all cases the chief complaint was about treatment. An effort was made to meet this
by calling conferences and by giving publicity to the launching of a campaign to make unfair
settlements and other such grievances unpopular. Thus, in Bolivar county, Mississippi, a meeting
was called, ostensibly to look after the economic welfare of the Delta country, but in reality
to develop some plan for holding labor. A subcommittee of seventeen men was appointed to look
into the labor situation. There were twelve white men and five negroes. The subcommittee met
and reported to the body that the present labor shortage was due to the migration, and that
the migration was due to a feeling of insecurity before the law, the unrestrained action of
mobs, unfair methods of yearly settlement on farms and inadequate school facilities. As a result
of the report, it was agreed to make an appropriation of $25,000 towards an agricultural high
school, as a step towards showing an interest in the negroes of Bolivar county and thus give
them reasons for remaining. A campaign was started to make unpopular the practice among farmers
of robbing negroes of the returns from their labor, and a general effort was made by a few
of the leading men behind the movement to create "a better feeling" between the races.[95]

Wide publicity was given to the experiment in plantation government, and the policy was accepted
by a number of planters as opportunistic action. Thus, one Mr. Abbott of Natchez, Mississippi,
told the planters of his section that good treatment, adequate and sympathetic oversight are
the important factors in any effort to hold labor. He made a trip to his farm every week, endeavoring
to educate his tenants in modes of right living. Every man on his place had a bank account
and was apparently satisfied. This example was presented with the statement that where these
methods had been used, few had left. One planter purchased twenty-eight Ford automobiles to
sell on easy terms to his tenants with the hope of contenting them.

The newspapers published numerous letters from southern negro leaders urging negroes to consider
well their step, asserting that the South is the best place for them and that the southern
white man knows them and will in consequence be more lenient with their shortcomings. The papers
further urged an increase in wages and better treatment. Wherever possible, there were published
articles which pointed to the material prosperity of negroes in the South. For example, a writer
of Greenville, said of negroes' loyalty in 1917:

    The prosperity as well as the patriotism of the negro farmer
    has been shown in the purchase of Liberty Bonds in the Delta.
    Many colored farm laborers subscribed for bonds. Every family
    on the place of Planter C.D. Walcott, near Hollandale, took
    a bond, while one negro, Boley Cox, a renter, bought bonds to
    the amount of $1,000 and gave his check for the total amount
    out of the savings of this year from his crop and still has
    cotton to sell. There are negro families on Delta plantations
    making more money this year than the salary of the governor of
    the State.

When migrants could be induced to talk freely, they complained also against the treatment in
the courts. Some of the cities consequently are known to have suspended their raids and arrests
on petty charges. In some instances the attempts at pacification reached almost incredible
bounds. For example, a negro missed connection with his train through the fault of the railroad.
His white friend advised him to bring suit. This he did and urged as his principal grievance
that he was stranded in a strange town and was forced to sleep in quarters wholly at the mercy
of bed bugs. It is said that he was awarded damages to the extent of $800. A Jackson, Mississippi,
daily paper that had been running a column of humorous incidents about negroes taken from the
daily court sessions, which was very distasteful to the colored people of the city, discontinued
it. Such methods as these have been the only ones to prove effective in bringing about an appreciable
stem in the tide. With the advent of the United States Government constructing cantonments
and establishing manufacturing plants in the South, the millions thus diverted to that section
have caused such an increase in wages that the movement has been decidedly checked.

[Footnote 77: Work, Report on the Migration from Florida.]

[Footnote 78: Atlantic Constitution, November 1, 1916.]

[Footnote 79: Work, Report on the Migration from Georgia.]

[Footnote 80: Ibid.]

[Footnote 81: Work, Report on the Migration from Georgia.]

[Footnote 82: Work, Report on the Migration from Georgia.]

[Footnote 83: Work, Report on the Migration from Alabama.]

[Footnote 84: Johnson, Report on the Migration from Mississippi.]

[Footnote 85: Ibid.]

[Footnote 86: Johnson, Report on the Migration from Mississippi.]

[Footnote 87: Times Picayune, New Orleans. October 1, 1916.]

[Footnote 88: Work, Report on the Migration from Louisiana.]

[Footnote 89: Johnson, Report on the Migration from Mississippi.]

[Footnote 90: Atlanta Constitution, June 1, 1917.]

[Footnote 91: I.D. Davis served as president of the conference and J.B. Ellis as secretary.
Former Superior Court Judge T.A. Parker and V.L. Stanton, president of the Chamber of Commerce,
were among the prominent white people who attended. It was the sense of the conference that
the colored people as a race should do all in their power in the present crisis to assist the
government and, above all else, to help themselves by conserving food. The president of the
conference said the colored people had to work harder than ever before with so many problems
confronting their country. "It is no time for loafing," he said, "we must work early and late,
and make our work count."--Savannah Morning News, July 18, 1917.]

[Footnote 92: The suggestions were: to encourage the farmer to plant peanuts, soy beans, velvet
beans and cotton as cash crops; to create a cash market for such crops named above as at present
have no cash market; to encourage tenants to grow fall and winter gardens and to plant at least
five acres of oats to the plow, seed being furnished when necessary; to stipulate, in making
tenant contracts for another year, that cotton stalks be plowed under in the fall, that special
methods of combating the boll weevil be used. To advance no more than $25 to the plow, and,
in every case possible, to refrain from any advance; to encourage land holders to rent land
for part of the crops grown; to urge the exercise of leniency on unpaid notes and mortgages
due from thrifty and industrious farmers so as to give them a chance to recover from the boll
weevil conditions and storm losses; to create a market lasting all year for such crops as hay,
cow-peas, sweet potatoes, poultry and live stock; to urge everybody to build fences and make
pastures so as to grow more live stock and to produce more nearly all of the supplies used
on the farm; to carry on a food campaign in the country, devoting the first Sunday in October
to the work of urging the people to plant gardens and sow oats, and to organize a Farmers'
Loan Association in Macon county to work with the Farmers' Loan Bank being established by the
United States Government.]

[Footnote 93: Report of the Twenty-sixth Annual Negro Conference at Tuskegee Institute.]

[Footnote 94: Johnson, Report on the Migration from Mississippi.]

[Footnote 95: Johnson, Report on the Migration from Mississippi.]

CHAPTER VIII

EFFECTS OF THE MOVEMENT ON THE SOUTH

The first changes wrought by this migration were unusually startling. Homes found themselves
without servants, factories could not operate because of the lack of labor, farmers were unable
to secure laborers to harvest their crops. Streets in towns and cities once crowded assumed
the aspect of deserted thoroughfares, houses in congested districts became empty, churches,
lodges and societies suffered such a large loss of membership that they had to close up or
undergo reorganization.

Probably the most striking change was the unusual increase in wages. The wages for common labor
in Thomasville, Georgia, increased almost certainly 100 per cent. In Valdosta there was a general
increase in the town and county of about 50 per cent, in Brunswick and Savannah the same condition
obtained. The common laborer who had formerly received 80 cents a day earned thereafter $1.50
to $1.75. Farm hands working for from $10 to $15 per month were advanced to $20 or $35 per
month. Brick masons who had received 50 cents per hour thereafter earned 62-1/2 cents and 70
cents per hour. In Savannah common laborers paid as high as $2 per day were advanced to $3.
At the sugar refinery the rates were for women, 15 to 22 cents per hour, men, 22 to 30 cents
per hour. In the more skilled lines of work, the wages were for carpenters, $4 to $6 per day,
painters, $2.50 to $4 per day, and bricklayers $4 to $5 per day.

The increase in the Birmingham district may be studied as a type of the changes effected in
the industrial centers of the South, as Birmingham is a great coal mining center and, with
the exception of Pittsburgh, is the greatest iron ore district in the United States. On November
6, 1917, the average daily wage earnings of forty-five men was $5.49. On November 10, 1917,
the average for seventy-five men was $5.30. One man was earning $10 a day, two $9 to $10 a
day, five $8 to $9, six $7 to $8, ten $6 to $7, fourteen $5 to $6, thirty-two $4 to $5, nine
$3 to $4, and six under $3. In the other coal and iron ore sections the earnings had been similarly
increased.[96]

In Mississippi, largely a farming section, wages did not increase to the extent that they did
in Alabama, but some increase was necessary to induce the negroes to remain on the plantations
and towns to keep the industries going. In Greenville wages increased at first about ten per
cent but this did not suffice to stop the migration, for, because of the scarcity of labor,
factories and stores had to employ white porters, druggists had to deliver their own packages
and firms had to resort to employing negro women. On the farms much of the crop was lost on
account of the scarcity of labor. In Greenwood wages of common laborers increased from $1 and
$1.25 to $1.75 per day. Clarksdale was also compelled to offer laborers more remuneration.
Vicksburg found it necessary to increase the wages of negroes from $1.25 to $2 per day. There
were laborers on steamboats who received $75 to $100 per month.

At Leland 500 to 1,000 men received $1.75 per day. The oil mills of Indianola raised the wages
of the negroes from $1.50 to $2 per day. At Laurel the average daily wage was raised from $1.35
to $1.65, the maximum wage being $2. Wages increased at Meridian from 90 cents and $1.25 to
$1.50 and $1.75 per day. The wholesale houses increased the compensation of their employes
from $10 to $12 per week. From $1.10 in Hattiesburg the daily wage was raised to $1.75 and
$2 per day. Wages in Jackson increased from $1 and $1.25 to $1.35 and $1.50 per day. In Natchez
there was an increase of 25 per cent. On the whole, throughout the State there was an increase
of from 10 to 30 per cent and in some instances of as much as 100 per cent.[97]

Throughout the South there was not only a change in policy as to the method of stopping the
migration of the blacks to the North, but a change in the economic policy of the South. Southern
business men and planters soon found out that it was impossible to treat the negro as a serf
and began to deal with him as an actual employe entitled to his share of the returns from his
labor. It was evident that it would be very much better to have the negroes as coworkers in
a common cause than to have them abandon their occupations in the South, leaving their employers
no opportunity to secure to themselves adequate income to keep them above want.

A more difficult change of attitude was that of the labor unions. They had for years been antagonistic
to the negroes and had begun to drive them from many of the higher pursuits of labor which
they had even from the days of slavery monopolized. The skilled negro laborer has gradually
seen his chances grow less and less as the labor organizations have invaded the South. In the
end, however, the trade unions have been compelled to yield, although complete economic freedom
of the negro in the South is still a matter of prospect.

There was, too, a decided change in the attitude of the whole race toward the blacks. The white
people could be more easily reached, and very soon there was brought about a better understanding
between the races. Cities gave attention to the improvement of the sanitary condition of the
negro sections, which had so long been neglected; negroes were invited to take part in the
clean-up week; the Women's Health League called special meetings of colored women, conferred
with them and urged them to organize community clubs. Committees of leading negroes dared to
take up with their employers the questions of better accommodations and better treatment of
negro labor. Members of these committees went before chambers of commerce to set forth their
claims. Others dared boldly to explain to them that the negroes were leaving the South because
they had not been given the treatment which should be accorded men.

Instead of expressing their indignation at such efforts on the part of the negroes, the whites
listened to them attentively. Accordingly, joint meetings of the whites and blacks were held
to hear frank statements of the case from speakers of both races. One of the most interesting
of these meetings was the one held in Birmingham, Alabama. The negroes addressing the audience
frankly declared that it was impossible to bring back from the North the migrants who were
making good there, but that the immediate problem requiring solution was how to hold in the
South those who had not gone. These negroes made it clear that it was impossible for negro
leaders through the pulpit and press to check the movement, but that only through a change
in the attitude of the whites to the blacks could the latter be made to feel that the Southland
is safe for them.

Here we see the coming to pass of a thing long desired by those interested in the welfare of
the South and long rejected by those who have always prized the peculiar interest of one race
more highly than the welfare of all. White men, for the first time, were talking on the streets
with negroes just as white men talk with each other. The merchants gave their negro patrons
more attention and consideration. A prominent white man said, "I have never seen such changes
as have come about within the last four months. I know of white men and negroes who have not
dared to speak to one another on the streets to converse freely." The suspension of harsh treatment
was so marked in some places that few negroes neglected to mention it. In Greenwood and Jackson,
Mississippi, the police were instructed to curtail their practices of beating negroes. Several
court cases in which negroes were involved terminated favorably for them. There followed directly
after the exodus an attempt at more even handed justice, or at least some conciliatory measures
were adopted. The authorities at Laurel, Mississippi, were cautioned to treat negroes better,
so as to prevent their leaving. There is cited the case of a negro arrested on an ambiguous
charge. He was assigned to the county chain gang and put to work on the roads. At this time
the treatment in the courts was being urged by negroes as a reason for leaving. This negro's
case was discussed. He was sent back from the county roads alone for a shovel. He did not return;
and his return was not expected.[98]

Conferences of negroes and whites in Mississippi emphasized the necessity of cooperation between
the races for their common good. The whites said, to quote a negro laborer, "We must just get
together." A negro said: "The dominant race is just a bit less dominant at present." "We are
getting more consideration and appreciation," said another. From another quarter came the remark
that "instead of the old proverbial accusation--shiftless and unreliable--negro labor is being
heralded as 'the only dependable labor extant, etc.'"[99] A general review of the results made
it clear that there was a disposition on the part of the white population to give some measure
of those benefits, the denial of which was alleged as the cause of the exodus. For those who
remained conditions were much more tolerable, although there appeared to persist a feeling
of apprehension that these concessions would be retracted as soon as normal times returned.
Some were of the opinion that the exodus was of more assistance to those negroes who stayed
behind than to those who went away.

As a matter of fact, the white people in the South began to direct attention to serious work
of reconstruction to make that section inviting to the negro. Bolivar county, Mississippi,
as a direct result of the recommendation of the labor committee, made an appropriation of $25,000
toward an agricultural high school, the first of its kind in the State. The school boards of
Coahoma and Adams counties have appointed Jeanes Foundation Supervisors and, in Coahoma county,
promised a farm demonstration agent. They also made repairs on the school buildings in towns,
and prominent whites have expressed a willingness to duplicate every dollar negroes raise for
rural school improvements. A large planter in the Big Creek neighborhood has raised, together
with his tenants, $1,000 for schools and the superintendent of schools has gone over the county
urging planters to give land for negro schools. Two other large planters, whose tenants number
into the hundreds, have made repairs on the schoolhouses on their plantations. The Mississippi
Council of Defense passed a resolution calling upon the State to put a farm demonstrator and
home economics agent to work in rural communities to make living conditions better in the effort
to induce the people to stay.

This upheaval in the South, according to an investigator, will be helpful to all. For a number
of years science has made an appeal in behalf of the thoroughly clean city, knowing that since
the germ does not draw the color line, a city can not be kept clean as long as a substantial
portion of its citizens are crowded into one of its oldest and least desirable parts, neglected
by the city and avoided by the whites. Doing now what science has hitherto failed to accomplish,
this peculiar economic need of the negro in the South has brought about unusual changes in
the appearance of southern cities. Darkened portions of urban districts have been lighted;
streets in need of improvement have been paved; the water, light and gas systems have been
extended to negro quarters and play grounds and parks have been provided for their amusement.

No less important has been the effect of the migration on the southern land tenure and the
credit system, the very heart of the trouble in that section. For generations the negroes have
borne it grievously that it has been difficult to obtain land for cultivation other than by
paying exorbitant rents or giving their landlords an unusually large share of the crops. They
have been further handicapped by the necessity of depending on such landlords to supply them
with food and clothing at such exorbitant prices that their portion of the return from their
labor has been usually exhausted before harvesting the crops. Cheated thus in the making of
their contracts and in purchasing necessities, they have been but the prey of sharks and harpies
bent upon keeping them in a state scarcely better than that of slavery. Southerners of foresight
have, therefore, severely criticized this custom and, in a measure, have contributed to its
decline. The press and the pulpit of the South are now urging the planters to abolish this
system that the negroes may enjoy the fruits of their own labor. It is largely because of these
urgent appeals in behalf of fair play, during the economic upheaval, that this legalized robbery
is losing its hold in the South.

Recently welfare work among negroes has become a matter of much concern to the industries of
the South in view of the exceptional efforts made along this line in the North. At the very
beginning of the migration the National League on Urban Conditions among Negroes pointed out
that firms wishing to retain negro laborers and to have them become efficient must give special
attention to welfare work.[101] A considerable number of firms employing negro laborers in
the North have used the services of negro welfare workers. Their duties have been to work with
the men, study and interpret their wants and stand as a medium between the employer and his
negro workmen. It has, therefore, come to be recognized in certain industrial centers in the
South that money expended for this purpose is a good investment. Firms employing negro laborers
in any considerable numbers have found out that they must be dealt with on the same general
basis as white laborers. Among the industries in the South now looking out for their negro
laborers in this respect are the Newport News Shipbuilding and Dry Dock Company, the American
Cast Iron Pipe Company of Birmingham and the Tennessee Coal, Iron and Railroad Company.

These efforts take the form which usually characterize the operations of social workers. The
laborers are cared for through the Y.M.C.A., the Y.W.C.A., the National Urban League and social
settlement establishments. The attention of the welfare workers is directed to the improvement
of living conditions through proper sanitation and medical attention. They are supplied with
churches, school buildings and bath houses, enjoy the advantages of community singing, dramatic
clubs and public games, and receive instruction in gardening, sewing and cooking. Better educational
facilities are generally provided.

On the whole the South will profit by this migration. Such an upheaval was necessary to set
up a reaction in the southern mind to enable its leaders of thought to look beyond themselves
into the needs of the man far down. There is in progress, therefore, a reshaping of public
opinion, in fact a peaceful revolution in a land cursed by slavery and handicapped by aristocracy.
The tendency to maltreat the negroes without cause, the custom of arresting them for petty
offenses and the institution of lynching have all been somewhat checked by this change in the
attitude of the southern white man towards the negro. The check in the movement of the negroes
to other parts may to some extent interfere with this development of the new public opinion
in the South, but this movement has been so far reaching in its effect as to compel the thinking
class of the South to construct and carry out a policy of fair play to provide against that
day when that section may find itself again at the mercy of the laboring class of the negroes.

[Footnote 96: Work, Report on the Migration from Alabama.]

[Footnote 97: Johnson, Report on the Migration from Mississippi.]

[Footnote 98: Johnson, Report on the Migration from Mississippi.]

[Footnote 99: Johnson, Report on the Migration from Mississippi.]

[Footnote 100: Woodson, A Century of Negro Migration, pp. 183-186.]

[Footnote 101: At the National Conference, "The Problems of the Employment Manager in Industry"
held at Rochester, New York, in May, 1918, considerable time was given to this question. In
discussing psychology in the employment of negro workingmen Mr. E.K. Jones, Director of the
Urban League, pointed out that negro laborers must be given not only good housing and recreation
facilities but also the opportunity for advancement. "Give them," said he, "a chance to become
foremen and to engage in all kinds of skill and delicate labor. This will inspire them and
place new life in them."]

CHAPTER IX

THE SITUATION IN ST. LOUIS

It will be both interesting and profitable to follow these migrants into their new homes in
the North. Among the most interesting of these communities is the black colony in St. Louis.
St. Louis is one of the first cities of the border States, a city first in the memory of the
unsettled migrant when the North was mentioned. During a long period thousands had gone there,
settled down for a while and moved on, largely to Illinois, a sort of promised land. Conservative
estimates place the number of negro migrants who have remained there at 10,000. The number
of migrants passing through this city, its reception of them, the living conditions provided
and the community interest displayed in grappling with the problem are facts extremely necessary
to an understanding of the readjustment of the migrants in the North.

The composition of the city's population is significant. It has a large foreign element. Of
the foreign population Germans predominate, probably because of the brewery industry of the
American white population. The southern whites are of longest residence and dominate the sentiment.
The large industrial growth of the town, however, has brought great numbers of northern whites.
The result is a sort of mixture of traditions. The apparent results of this mixture may be
observed in these inconsistencies; separate schools, but common transportation facilities;
separate playgrounds, but common bath houses; separate theaters and restaurants with the color
line drawn as strictly as in the South.[102] There has been considerable migration of whites
to this city from Kentucky, Tennessee, Alabama and Mississippi.

As there are separate schools in St. Louis, the statistics of the St. Louis system may serve
as an index to the sources and the increase of the negro population. The school population
was known to increase approximately 500 between 1916 and 1917.[103] The school registration
shows communities in which have settled numbers of families from the same State and even the
same town. For example, in the vicinity of the Dessalines School in the 1700 block on 12th
Street, North, Mississippi colonists are in preponderant majority. The towns represented here
are located in the northeastern part of that State. In the vicinity of the L'Overture School
are distinct colonies from west Tennessee and Alabama. On Lawton Avenue, another popular street,
Mississippians also are in majority. What makes migration to St. Louis from these States easy
is probably its convenient location and direct railway communication with them. There has been
no influx from Texas and Florida.

How St. Louis secured her migrants makes an interesting story. The difficulty of apprehending
labor agents can be appreciated when it is recalled that the most zealous efforts of authority
in the majority of cases failed to find more than a trace of where they had been operating.
It was asserted by many of the migrants to this city, however, that they had been approached
at some time by agents. Large industrial plants located in the satellite city of St. Louis
sent men to Cairo, a junction point, to meet incoming trains and make offers. There developed
a competition for men. They were first induced to accept jobs in smaller towns, but lack of
recreational facilities and amusements and the monotony of life attracted them to the bright
lights of St. Louis. The large alien population of this city at the beginning of the war made
some employers anxious about the safety of their plants. The brick yards had been employing
foreigners exclusively. When war began so many left that it was felt that their business was
in danger. They advertised for 3,000 negroes, promising them $2.35 per day. The railroad construction
companies sent out men to attract negroes to the city. They assert, however, that their agents
solicited men only after they had started for the North.[104]

The industries of St. Louis had much to do with the migration. In this city there are more
than twenty breweries. None of these employ negroes. St. Louis also has a large shoe industry.
In this line no negroes are employed. A short while ago a large steel plant employing foreigners
in large numbers had a strike. The strike was settled but the management took precautions against
its repetition. For each white person employed a negro was placed on a corresponding job. This
parallel extended from unskilled work to the highest skilled pursuits. The assumption was that
a strike, should it recur, could not cripple their industry entirely. About 80 per cent of
the employes of the brick yards, 50 per cent of the employes of the packing houses, 50 per
cent of the employes of the American Car and Foundry Company are negroes. The terra cotta works,
electrical plants, united railways and a number of other foundries employ negroes in large
numbers.[105]

The range of wages for unskilled work is $2.25 to $3.35 per day, with an average wage of about
$2.75. For some skilled work negroes receive from 35 cents to 50 cents an hour. Wages differ
even between St. Louis and East St. Louis, because of a difference in the types of industries
in the two cities. Domestic service has been literally drained, and wages here have been forced
upwards to approximate in some measure the increase in other lines.

The housing facilities for negroes, though not the best, are superior to such accommodations
in most southern cities. There are about six communities in which the negroes are in the majority.
Houses here are as a rule old, having been occupied by whites before they were turned over
to negroes. Before the migration to the city, property owners reported that they could not
keep their houses rented half of the year. According to the statements of real estate men,
entire blocks stood vacant, and many vacant houses, after windows had been broken and plumbing
stolen, were wrecked to avoid paying taxes on them. Up to the period of the riot in East St.
Louis, houses were easily available. The only congestion experienced at all followed the overnight
increase of 7,000 negroes from East St. Louis, after the riot. Rents then jumped 25 per cent,
but normal conditions soon prevailed. Sanitation is poor, but the women coming from the South,
in the opinion of a reputable physician of the city, are good housewives. New blacks have been
added to all of the negro residential blocks. In the tenement district there have been no changes.
The select negro residential section is the abandoned residential district of the whites. Few
new houses have been built. An increase of rent from $5 to $10 per month is usually the sequel
of the turning over of a house to negroes.

Community interest in the situation was at first dormant but not entirely lacking. The migration
was well under way before there was any organization to make an adjustment in this unusual
situation. Interested individuals made sporadic efforts to bring pressure to bear here and
there, but the situation was not really appreciated until the outbreak in East St. Louis. There
is an active branch of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, and
just recently there has been established a branch of the National League on Urban Conditions
among Negroes to deal with the peculiarly local problems.[106]

East St. Louis, another attractive center for the migrants, is unique among northern industrial
cities. It is an industrial offshoot of St. Louis, which has outstripped its parent in expansion.
Its geographical advantage has made it a formidable rival even with its less developed civic
institutions. Perched on the banks of the Mississippi River, with twenty-seven railroads radiating
from it, within easy reach of the coal mines, there has been made possible a rapid and uneven
growth. It has doubled its population for three successive decades. Revolving around this overgrown
center are a number of small towns: Brooklyn, Lovejoy, Belleville, Venice, Granite City and
Madison. Its plant owners live in St. Louis and other cities, and consequently have little
civic interest in East St. Louis. Land is cheaper, taxes are low. In fact, some of the largest
concerns have been accused of evading them entirely. It has been artificially fed and, in process
of growth, there have been irregularities in the structure of the community which eventually
culminated in the greatest disgrace of the North, the massacre of about one hundred negroes.

Fifty years ago before the river dividing St. Louis from East St. Louis was bridged, men rowed
over from St. Louis for their cock fights, dog fights and prize fights. Escaped prisoners found
a haven there. The town was called "The Bloody Isle." The older population is made up of whites
from West Tennessee, Mississippi, Kentucky and Georgia. The men who have risen to political
prominence in the city are for the most part saloon keepers. As many as 100 saloons flourished
in the town before the riot. The city government has always been bad. The attitude of the citizenry
appeared to be that of passive acceptance of conditions which must not be interfered with.
As an example of the state of mind, much surprise was manifested when an investigation of the
rioting was begun. Criminals have been known to buy immunity. The mayor was assassinated some
time ago and little or no effort was made to punish his murderers.

Long before an influx was felt, it had been foreseen and mentioned by several men, most notably,
Mr. Charles Nagel, Secretary of Commerce and Labor under President Taft. The East St. Louis
plants had been going to Ellis Island for laborers. When this supply was checked, steps were
taken to secure negroes. Agents were sent to Cairo to get men en route further North. One advertisement
which appeared in a Texas paper promised negroes $3.05 a day and houses. It is estimated that
as a result of this beckoning the increase in population due to the migration was 5,000. A
number of other negro migrants, however, work in East St. Louis and live in St. Louis, Lovejoy
and Brooklyn, a negro town. The school registration of the city showed that the largest numbers
of these blacks came from Mississippi and West Tennessee. Despite the advertisement for men
in Texas newspapers, few came to this city from that State.[107]

The industries requiring the labor of these negroes were numerous. The packing plants of Swift,
Armour, Nelson and Morris employ large numbers of negroes. In some of the unskilled departments
fifty per cent of the employes are black. The Aluminum Ore Works employs about 600 blacks and
1,000 whites. This is the plant in which occurred the strike which in a measure precipitated
the riot. The Missouri Malleable Iron Works makes it a policy to keep three classes of men
at work and as nearly equal numerically as possible. The usual division is one-third foreign
whites, one-third American whites and one-third blacks. The theory is that these three elements
will not unite to strike. Negroes are also employed in the glass works, cotton presses and
transfer yards. Their wages for unskilled work ranges from $2.75 to $3.75 generally for eight
hours a day. Semiskilled work pays from 35 cents to 50 cents an hour.

The housing of the negro migrants was one of the most perplexing problems in East St. Louis.
The type of houses available for negroes, before being burned during the riot, were small dilapidated
cottages. Congestion, of course, was a problem which accompanied the influx of negroes. The
incoming population, consisting largely of lodgers, was a misfit in the small cottages designed
for families, and they were generally neglected by the tenant and by the local authorities.
The segregated vice district was located in the negro locality. The crowding which followed
the influx forced some few negroes into the white localities. Against this invasion there was
strong opposition which culminated in trouble.[108]

The roots of the fateful horror that made East St. Louis notorious, however, are to be found
largely in a no less notorious civic structure. Politics of a shady nature was the handmaiden
of the local administration. The human fabric of the town was made up of sad types of rough,
questionable characters, drawn to the town by its industries and the money that flowed from
them. There was a large criminal element. These lived in a little corner of the town, where
was located also the segregated vice district. Negroes were interested in politics. In fact,
they were a considerable factor and succeeded in placing in office several black men of their
choice.

Trouble started at the Aluminum Ore Works which employed a large number of whites and blacks.
In February of 1917 the men struck while working on government contracts. Immediately, it is
claimed, negroes were sought for in other States to take their places. An adjustment was made,
but it lasted only a short while. Then followed a second strike at which the employers balked.
In this they felt reasonably secure for negroes were then pouring into the city from the South
during the spring exodus. There followed numerous evidences of brooding conflict such as insults
on the street cars, comments and excitement over the daily arrival of large numbers from the
South. On one day three hundred are said to have arrived. Standing on the streets, waiting
for cars, lost in wandering about the streets searching for homes, the negroes presented a
helpless group. The search for homes carried them into the most undesirable sections. Here
the scraggy edges of society met. The traditional attitude of unionists toward negroes began
to assert itself. Fear that such large numbers would weaken present and subsequent demands
aroused considerable opposition to their presence. Meetings were held, exciting speeches were
made and street fights became common. The East St. Louis Journal is said to have printed a
series of articles under the caption, "Make East St. Louis a Lily White Town." It was a simple
matter of touching off the smoldering tinder. In the riot that followed over a hundred negroes
were killed. These, for the most part lived away from the places of the most violent disturbances,
and were returning home, unconscious of the fate that awaited them. The riot has recently been
subject to a congressional investigation, but few convictions resulted and those whites convicted
escaped serious punishment.[109]

[Footnote 102: A segregation law was passed by an overwhelming majority. Negroes secured an
injunction and the matter rested there until the United States Supreme Court declared the segregation
laws invalid.]

[Footnote 103: St. Louis School Reports, 1916 and 1917.]

[Footnote 104: Johnson, Report on the Migration to St. Louis.]

[Footnote 105: Ibid.]

[Footnote 106: Reports of the National Urban League, 1916, 1917.]

[Footnote 107: Johnson, Report on the Migration to St. Louis.]

[Footnote 108: See Congressional Report on the Massacre of East St. Louis.]

[Footnote 109: See Congressional Report on the Massacre of East St. Louis.]

CHAPTER X

CHICAGO AND ITS ENVIRONS

Chicago, the metropolis of the West, remembered in the South since the World's Fair as a far-away
city of hope from which come all great things; unceasingly advertised through its tremendous
mail order and clothing houses, schools and industries until it became a synonym for the "North,"
was the mouth of the stream of negroes from the South. It attracted all types of men, brought
them in, encouraged them and cared for them because it needed them. It is estimated that within
the period of eighteen months beginning January, 1916, more than fifty thousand negroes entered
the city. This estimate was based on averages taken from actual count of daily arrivals.

There were at work in this city a number of agencies which served to stimulate the movement.
The stock yards were sorely in need of men. It was reported that they had emissaries in the
South. Whether it is true or not, it is a fact that it was most widely advertised throughout
the States of Mississippi and Louisiana that employment could easily be secured in the Chicago
stock yards district. The report was circulated that fifty thousand men were needed, and the
packers were providing houses for migrants and caring for them until they had established themselves.
The Illinois Central Railroad brought hundreds on free transportation with the understanding
that the men would enter the employ of the company. The radical negro newspapers published
here urged negroes to leave the South and promised employment and protection. It is indeed
little wonder that Chicago received so great a number.

The most favorable aspect of their condition in their new home is their opportunity to earn
money. Coming from the South, where they were accustomed to work for a few cents a day or a
few dollars a week, to an industrial center where they can now earn as much in an hour or a
day, they have the feeling that this city is really the land overflowing with milk and honey.
In the occupations in which they are now employed, many of them are engaged at skilled labor,
receiving the same and, in some cases, greater compensation than was paid white men in such
positions prior to the outbreak of the war. Talking with a number of them the investigator
obtained such information as, that men were working at the Wilson Packing House and receiving
$3 a day; at the Marks Manufacturing Company for $3.75; as lumber stackers at $4 a day, at
one of the rolling mills for $25 a week, and on the railroads at $125 a month. The large majority
of these migrants are engaged in the packing houses of Chicago where they are employed to do
all sorts of skilled and unskilled labor with the corresponding compensation.[110]

It was soon discovered that the needs of the migrants could not all be supplied by money. Something
had to be done for their social welfare. Various agencies assisted in caring for the needs
of the 25,000 or more negro migrants who, it is estimated, have come to Chicago within three
years. The Chicago Renting Agents' Association appointed a special committee to study the problems
of housing them and to confer with leaders in civic organization and with representative negroes.
The Cook County Association considered the question of appointing some one to do Sunday School
work exclusively among the newcomers. The Housing Committee of the Chicago Women's Club arranged
for an intensive survey of housing conditions. The negroes themselves organized to help the
recently arrived members of the race. Negro ministers, lawyers, physicians and social workers
cooperated in handling the problem through churches, Sunday Schools and in other ways.[111]

The negroes residing in Chicago, who came from particular States in the South organized clubs
to look after the migrants from their own States. The result was that an Alabama Club, a Georgia
Club, Mississippi Club, Tennessee Club and so on were formed. Committees from these clubs met
the train and helped the newcomers to find homes and work. The chief agency in handling the
migrant situation in Chicago was the local branch of the National League on Urban Conditions
among Negroes. The work which the league did for the migrants as set forth in the report of
1917 was of three kinds: employment, housing and adjustment or assimilation. The policy of
the Urban League with regard to employment was to find and, where possible, to open new occupations
hitherto denied negroes. The housing problem was urgent. The most that the league was able
to do thus far was to find lodging, to assist in finding houses. Lodging accommodations for
more than 400 individuals were personally inspected by several women volunteers. It is impossible
to do much else short of the construction of apartments for families and for single men.

The league's first efforts to assimilate the new people started with their entrance to the
city. To see that they received proper directions upon reaching the railroad station was an
important task. It was able to secure the services of a volunteer travelers' aid society. This
agent met trains and directed migrants to destinations when they had addresses of relatives
and friends. In the absence of such they were sent to proper homes for lodging, and to the
league office for employment.

The great majority of negroes in Chicago live in a limited area known as the South Side. State
Street is the thoroughfare. It is the black belt of the city. This segregation is aided on
one hand by the difficulty of securing houses in other sections of the city, and on the other,
by the desire of negroes to live where they have greatest political strength. Previous to the
migration, hundreds of houses stood vacant in the sections of the district west of State Street
from which they had moved only a few years before, when it was found that better homes were
available. The presence of negroes in an exclusively white locality usually brought forth loud
protests and frequently ended in the abandonment of the block by whites. The old district lying
west of State Street held the worst type of houses. It was also in disrepute because of its
proximity to the old segregated vice area. The newcomers, unacquainted with its reputation,
found no hesitancy in moving in until better homes could be secured.

Congestion has been a serious problem only during short periods when the influx was greater
than the city's immediate capacity for distributing them. During the summer of 1917 this was
the situation. A canvass of real estate dealers supplying houses for negroes conducted by the
Chicago Urban League revealed the fact that on a single day there were 664 negro applicants
for houses, and only 50 supplied, while there were 97 houses advertised for rent. In some instances
as many as ten persons were listed for a single house. This condition did not continue long.
There were counted thirty-six new localities opening up to negroes within three months. These
localities were formerly white.

An accompaniment to this congestion was the increase in rents of from 5 to 30 per cent and
sometimes as high as 50 per cent. This was explained by landlords as a return to former standards
after the property had depreciated through the coming in of negroes. A more detailed study
of living conditions among the migrants in Chicago was made by a student of the School of Civics
and Philanthropy. The study included 75 families of less than a year's residence. In the group
were 60 married couples, 128 children, eight women and nine married men with families in the South.

How this large group--265 persons--fresh from a region where life is enlivened by a mild climate
and ample space was to find living quarters in an overcrowded section of two Chicago blocks
was a problem of many aspects. A single furnished room, rented by the week, provided the solution
for each of 41 families, while 24 families rented homes by the month, four families occupied
two rooms each. In some instances, this meant overcrowding so serious as to threaten morals
and health. The Urban League interested corporations and capitalists in the construction of
modern apartment houses with small individual apartments. It endeavored also to have the city
see the necessity of preventing occupancy of the physically unfit houses. The league conducted
a campaign to educate the masses in regard to housing, and payment of exorbitant rents was
discouraged. The various city departments were asked to enforce ordinances in negro neighborhoods.
In this way the league tried to reduce overcrowding and extortionate rentals.

All of the arrivals here did not stay. They were only temporary guests awaiting the opportunity
to proceed further and settle in surrounding cities and towns. This tendency appears to have
been to reach those fields offering the highest wages and most permanent prospects. With Chicago
as a center there are within a radius of from one hundred to one hundred and fifty miles a
number of smaller industrial centers--suburbs of Chicago in which enterprises have sprung up
because of the nearness to the unexcelled shipping and other facilities which Chicago furnished.
A great many of the migrants who came to Chicago found employment in these satellite places.[112]

One of these towns was Rockford, a city of about 55,000 people before Camp Grant began to add
to its population. It is estimated that there were about 1,500 negroes in Rockford, 1,000 of
whom came in during 1916 and 1917. The Rockford Malleable Iron Company, which never hired more
than five or six negroes until two years ago, has nearly one hundred in its employ. A timekeeper,
five inspectors, a machinist, a porter, three foremen and twenty of the molders are negroes.
The Free Sewing Machine Company, Emerson and Birmingham, the Trahern Pump Company and the two
knitting factories began also to employ negroes. The standard wage prevailed, and, while the
unskilled work was largely given to the negroes, there were instances when opportunity was
given for them to follow pursuits requiring skill.

Housing showed every evidence of congestion. The city was unprepared for the unprecedented
increase in population necessitated by the demands of its factories for men to produce munitions
of war. The workingmen, however, were soon better provided for than in some other cities. The
Rockford Malleable Iron Company conducted two houses for the accommodation of its employes
and rented several smaller ones.[113] This company had recently purchased a large acreage and
was considering the advisability of building houses for its employes, including the negro migrants.
The Emerson and Birmingham Company and the Sewing Machine Company had similar plans under advisement.

The Rockford Malleable Iron Company was the first to use negroes. In the fall of 1916 the first
negro employes were brought in from Canton, Illinois, through a Mr. Robinson then employed
by the company as a molder. There were nine molders in the group. At brief intervals Tuskegee
sent up four, then five, then eight and then six men, most of whom had had training in machinery
and molding. The total number of Tuskegee boys was 32. Robinson also brought men from Metropolis,
Illinois, and from Kankakee. He made a trip through Alabama and brought up 15 or 16. Most of
these were laborers. Seven laborers came as a result of correspondence with a physician from
Des Moines, Iowa. From Christiansburg, Virginia, the only negro blacksmith came. The Urban
League also sent up some men from Chicago. The company was so pleased with the men's service
that they called upon the Urban League for more men and placed in its hands a fund for their
railroad expenses.[114]

Negroes were promoted from time to time and were used in every department of the shop. One
of the men was an inspector. Two new machines turning out work faster than any other machine
were turned over to the negroes. All of them were given steady work without being forced to
lay off, and their wages were increased. Street car companies and officials in Rockford have
congratulated the men upon their conduct. Two of the men who came up from the South were purchasing
property.

When the increase in negro population became noticeable, a good deal of discrimination appeared
in public places. The mayor of the city, therefore, called a conference of the Chamber of Commerce,
of representatives from Camp Grant, hotels, skating rinks and other public places and read
the civil rights law to them. He gave them to understand that Rockford would not stand for
discrimination between races. When some of the conferees thought they would like to have separate
tables in the restaurants the mayor opposed them and insisted that there should be no such
treatment. One restaurant, which displayed a sign, "We do not cater to colored trade," was
given orders by the Chief of Police to take it down in fifteen minutes, when his deputy would
arrive with instructions to carry out the law in case the sign was not removed.

Waukegan, a town thirty miles northwest of Chicago, with a total population of about 22,000
has approximately 400 negroes, where two years ago there were about 275. The Wilder Tanning
Company and the American Steel and Wire Company employed the largest number of these negroes.
These firms worked about 60 and 80 respectively. Smaller numbers were employed by the Gas Company,
the Calk Mill, the Cyclone Fence Company, the Northwestern Railroad freight house and a bed
spring factory and several were working at the Great Lakes Naval Training Station. A few found
employment as porters in barber shops and theaters. At the Wilder Tanning Company and the American
Steel and Wire Company, opportunity was given negroes to do semiskilled work. The former was
working negroes into every branch of its industry. The average daily wage here was about $3.[115]

The secretary of the Chamber of Commerce believed that the influx did not cause anything more
than a ripple on the surface. He said: "I cover everything when I say that, no apparent increase
in crime; no trouble among themselves; no race friction." Theaters began to discriminate, but
soon ceased. The proprietor of the Sheridan Club stated that he took a group of men to one
theater which had shown signs of discrimination. Each man was told to purchase his own ticket.
The owner observing the scheme admitted them. Very few restaurants refuse to serve negroes.
Only one openly segregated them to a particular part of the dining-room. Absolutely no trouble
was experienced in the schools. The police commissioner sees that the negroes have the protection
of the law.

East Chicago, an industrial center located about twenty-five miles from Chicago with a population
now made up in large part of Hungarians, Poles, Italians and negroes, had only one negro family
in 1915. During the month of August, 1916, about 150 negroes came and others soon followed.
At present there are about 75 families, 35 or 40 children of school age and about 450 men working
in the industrial plants. The majority of these newcomers were from the rural districts of
Alabama and Georgia, with a few from Mississippi. A large number of negroes, moreover, live
in Indiana Harbor and in Chicago and work in East Chicago.[116]

Some of the people went to Indiana Harbor for church services. During the summer of 1917, an
attempt was made to organize a church, but it was unsuccessful and almost excited a racial
conflict. The negroes from Alabama and Georgia complained about the wickedness of East Chicago,
and declared their intentions of going home, "where they can sing without appearing strange,
and where they can hear somebody else pray besides themselves." Few racial clashes, however,
have followed. A strike which occurred at Gasselli's Chemical Company was at first thought
to be a protest of the foreigners against the 80 negroes employed there. Nothing serious developed
from it. The only apparent dangers were in thoughtlessness on the part of negroes in their
conduct. They were too badly needed in industry to be harshly treated either by the foreigners
or their employers.[117]

In Beloit, Wisconsin, as in other cities, it was impossible to find out with any degree of
accuracy the approximate number of negroes. Estimates of the number ranged from 700 to 2,000,
whereas, before the influx, the black population was as low as 200. The total population of
Beloit is about 20,000. There are now two negro churches, a Baptist and an African Methodist
Episcopal. The Baptist church was said to be made up entirely of new people. Beloit did not
have a negro Baptist preacher until the migration, and had no negro physicians. Prior to the
influx there was little discrimination, except in some of the restaurants and occasionally
in the theaters. One negro was working at the post office, and another at the railroad station.
Aside from these, the negro men were practically all laborers and porters.

As is true in most small cities, one company took the initiative in sending for men from the
South. The Fairbanks Morse Company was the pioneer corporation in this respect in Beloit. This
company hires at present 200 men. Most of these came from Mississippi. In fact, Albany and
Pontotoc, small towns in Mississippi, are said to have dumped their entire population in Beloit.
A few from Memphis, Tennessee, were employed there but the company preferred Mississippians,
and had agents at work in that State getting men for its plant. It was said to be fair in its
treatment of negroes and to pay the standard wages.[118]

Milwaukee was one of the ready recipients of negro migrants from other points in the North.
Following the outbreak of the war, the consequent cessation of foreign immigration and the
withdrawal of a number of aliens from the labor market to follow their national colors, a large
demand for negro labor was for the first time created. Milwaukee apparently could not attract
voluntary migration, and the larger plants were forced to import some 1,200 southern negroes
to man their industries. In 1910, the city had a negro population of 980. There are now in
Milwaukee about 2,700 negroes of whom 1,500 are newcomers, not only from the South, but from
the adjacent States of Illinois, Iowa, Michigan and Minnesota.[119]

This migration to Milwaukee caused a number of difficulties. The first difficulty to arise
was in the relationship of the migrant to the old residents of the city. Like the newly arrived
foreigners they lived rather "close lives," had little contact with the people of the community
and as a consequence were slow in changing their southern standards. This lack of contact was
registered in the slight attendance in the colored churches, which are by far the most common
medium of personal contact among negroes. The leading pastors and two others who have made
unsuccessful attempts to establish churches complained that the newcomers, although accustomed
to going to church in their old homes, "strayed from the fold" in the large city. There was
also a certain unmistakable reticence on the part of the newcomers with respect to the negroes
of longer residence. The new arrivals were at times suspicious of the motives of the older
residents, and resented being advised how to conduct themselves. They were for the most part
not in touch with any civic agency. The migrants, therefore, came into contact with the lower
element. The recreations and amusements of the newcomers were those which the social outcasts
furnished them.[120]

Another anomaly was to be observed in the motives behind the migration. The most recent European
immigrants, unfamiliar with the character of the plants, having strong bodies and a disposition
to work, are engaged as unskilled laborers. They do not, of course, remain at this level, but
are continually pushed forward by later comers. The men who filled these lower positions were
not the best type of foreigners. When the war began and this influx from Europe was stopped,
it was for these positions that the plants were forced to seek men. Negroes were sought in
the South, but, unfortunately, the emphasis was placed on quantity and not quality. Those who
were able to move on shortest notice, those with few responsibilities and few interests at
home, were snapped up by the labor agents. This blunder has also registered itself in the records
of the city and the character of the negro migrants. This was probably due to the fact that
little is known of Milwaukee in the South. Unlike Chicago, Detroit, New York and other northern
cities, it was not a popular destination for voluntary migration. Agents who scoured the South
for men testified that in a large number of cases the first question asked was whether or not
Milwaukee was a wet town, for the southern States have prohibited the sale of liquor. While
Chicago got advertisement in the South through its great mail order business, most of what
was known of Milwaukee related to its breweries.

The negroes here, however, had numerous industrial opportunities. The manner in which the trades
suddenly opened up to them made it difficult to ascertain the number of negroes so engaged.
An intensive study of a neighborhood showed a much wider variety of skilled negro laborers
and brought to light the cases of many not otherwise known. One man in touch with the iron
workers of the city ventured the statement that there were perhaps 75 negroes engaged in skilled
work in the iron and steel industries of the city. In a large number of other plants one or
two negroes had succeeded in finding skilled employment. Firms known to employ negroes in the
capacity of skilled workmen are the Plankington Packing Company, Wehr Steel and Machine Shops,
the National Malleable Iron Works, A.J. Lindeman-Hoverson Company and the Milwaukee Coke and
Gas Company. For the most part skilled negroes are butchers and molders.[121]

In the case of negroes from the South with trades, however, there arose a situation which is
seldom fully appreciated. A man in the South may be skilled in such an independent trade as
shoemaking, tailoring, carpentry and the like, but in a northern city with its highly specialized
industrial processes and divisions of labor, he must learn over again what he thought he had
mastered, or abandon his trade entirely and seek employment in unskilled lines. The wages for
skilled work were for butchers, 55 to 64 cents an hour; for steel molders, 35 to 47 cents an
hour; for firemen, $27 per week; for chauffeurs, $15 to $30 a week; for shoemakers, $20 a week;
stationary firemen, $24 a week. The mass of negroes, men and women, gainfully employed in the
city was made up of manual laborers. Vacancies for negroes in industry were made at the bottom.
The range of occupations in unskilled work, however, was fairly wide. They were packing house
employes, muckers, tannery laborers, street construction workers, dock hands and foundry laborers.
Their wages were for foundry laborers, 32-1/2 cents to 35 cents an hour; for muckers, $28 a
week; for tannery laborers, $24 a week; dock hands, 60 cents an hour; and for packing house
laborers, 43 cents an hour (male), and 30-1/2 cents an hour (female). There were also porters
in stores and janitors whose weekly wages averaged between $15 and $18 per week.

Several firms made strenuous efforts to induce laborers to come from the South. The Pfister-Vogel
Company employed a negro to secure them for this purpose, and made preparation for their lodging
and board. This representative stated that he was responsible for the presence of about 300
negroes in the city. Reverend J.S. Woods of the Booker T. Washington social settlement, who
was actively engaged in assisting the plants, asserted that he had placed over 400. The Albert
Trostel Company paid transportation for nearly 100 men.

The principal industries employing negroes with the number employed were about as follows:[122]

                               Number
       Firm                 Male  Female

Plankington Packing Co.      78     10 Albert Trostel Leather Co.   75     30 Faulk's Manufacturing
Co.    34 Hoffman Manufacturing Co.     2 Tunnell Construction Co.     10 Milwaukee Coke and
Gas Co.   38 Pfister-Vogel Tannery        75 A.J. Lindeman-Hoverson Co.   13 National Malleable
Iron Co.  22 Solvay Steel Castings Co.    24 Allis Chalmers               70

On December 1, 1917, the Plankington Packing Company employed 93 men and 27 women. The Pfister-Vogel
Company had only 75 men in its employ. This company, however, within 18 months had employed
300 negroes from the South.

Concerning the range of wages for negroes in these lines the data provided by these firms gave
some means of information.

Firms                         Male                     Female

Plankington Packing Co.     43c to 64c an hour       30-1/2c an hour Faulk's Manufacturing
Co.   35c to 47c an hour Hoffman Manufacturing Co.   32-1/2c an hour Tunnell Construction Co.
$4 a day Albert Trostel Co.          40c an hour              30c an hour Milwaukee Coke and
Gas Co.  $3.67 to $4.79 a day A.J. Lindeman-Hoverson Co.  $3 to $5 a day National Malleable
Iron Co. 35c an hour to $4 a day Pfister-Vogel Tannery       $22 to $24 a week

The quality of the workingmen is of interest both to the employers and social workers. To get
uniform data employers were asked the principal faults and principal merits of their negro
workmen. To the question, "What are the principal faults of your negro workmen?" these answers
were given:[123]

    None that predominate.

    The principal fault of negro workmen is, they are slow and
    very hard to please.

    Not good on rapid moving machinery, have not had mechanical
    training; slow; not stable.

    Inclined to be irregular in attendance to work.

    Very unsteady.

    Leave in summertime for road work.

To the question, "What are the principal merits of your negro workmen?" these answers were given:

    They are superior to foreign labor because they readily
    understand what you try to tell them.

    Loyalty, willingness, cheerfulness.

    The skilled men stick and are good workmen.

    Generally speaking they are agreeable workmen.

    Quicker, huskier, and can stand more heat than other workmen.

The attitude of white and black workmen toward one another in none of the plants visited presented
anything like a serious situation. The following are answers to questions relating to this
sentiment as returned by the important industries:[124]

    No feeling--no complaints--no comments.

    White and black get along well. There was a little trouble
    some time ago between a Jewish foreman and his negro workmen.
    All the negroes quit. The matter was investigated and the
    foreman discharged.

    Good.

    The relations are favorable, although negroes appear a bit
    clannish.

    Good fellowship prevails.

    Negroes do not stay long enough to get acquainted.

    Good in most cases. Very little opposition. They are working
    as helpers with whites. Few objections.

As a final effort to get the opinion of employers themselves concerning the best means of improving
their labor, a suggestion from them on this matter was solicited. Their views are subjoined:[125]

    A rather broad question and one that could only be answered
    after considerable study. Believe the great trouble with negro
    labor has been the fact that a poor class of negroes has been
    employed by many. We have a good lot of workers now.

    Some means should be devised to get them away from their
    general shiftless ways.

    Education.

    As a negro can be very contented and happy on very little, if
    their living conditions were improved and the desire created
    in them to improve their condition, this would be a help
    towards encouragement in bettering their social condition.
    In fact, we feel that anything that would help to better the
    social attention of the negro would make him a better workman.

    Better housing and supervision through some responsible
    organization. Some way to keep sympathetic watch over them.

Without doubt there is an element of truth in each of these comments. It is unquestionably
true that a large number of these men register by their actions instability, irregularity and
general shiftlessness. Some of these cases are inexcusable, and the only reason for their connection
with the industry is the fact that they were brought from the South, where they were voluntarily
idle, by agents of employers. The importation merely shifted the scene of their deliberate
loafing and spasmodic contact with work.

Employers in all of the plants know that they have had difficulty in holding their negro labor,
but do not know why. Most of the men willing to leave the city were unmarried men with few
responsibilities. These are the ones who found employment there and, being dissatisfied, quit.
The highest negro labor turnover was in the leather factories. But for this there was a reason.
The only employment permitted negroes there was wet and very disagreeable beam work, and at
wages not in excess of those paid by neighboring plants with a different grade of work. Inquiries
among laboring men reveal reasons plausible indeed to the laborers themselves, which in many
cases would have been found reasonable also by the employers.

It is generally known that all classes of labor of all nationalities are in an unsettled state.
Shifting to the higher paid industries is common. In consequence the disagreeable and poorly
paid ones have suffered. The instability of negroes, especially in those industries that have
been so hard pressed as to find it necessary to go South for men, is not so much a group characteristic
as an expression of present tendencies in labor generally.

Reasons of a more intimate nature advanced by the men for changing jobs are numerous. Among
these are dissatisfaction with the treatment of petty white bosses, the necessity for ready
money for the care of their families, the distance of the plants from the district in which
the negro workmen live[126] and the unpleasant indoor work in certain factories.

The social condition of negroes in Milwaukee is not alarming. There are indicated, however,
unmistakable maladjustments which require immediate attention. But even these will not become
alarming, if checked now, when preventive measures can be made practicable, attractive and easy.

The neighborhoods in which negroes live have long showed evidence of physical and moral deterioration.
The addition of 1,400 negroes from the South, over 70 per cent of whom were brought to the
city by companies seeking labor, hastened the deterioration and gave rise to problems where
only tendencies existed before. Neighborhood life is conspicuously lax and the spirit of the
community quite naturally comports with the looseness and immorality of the district. Though
such conditions are plainly evident, no organized influence has been projected to correct them.
As with the neighborhood, so with housing, crime, delinquency, education, recreation, industry,
and the like, the conditions which retard developmental habits must have constant vigilance
and treatment.

[Footnote 110: Johnson, Report on the Migration to Chicago.]

[Footnote 111: Ibid.]

[Footnote 112: The Detroit branch of the Urban League reported, for example, that a great percentage
of its applicants for work were from Chicago.]

[Footnote 113: The two large houses accommodated fifty to sixty men. One of these was known
as the Tuskegee Club House and housed only men from Tuskegee Institute.]

[Footnote 114: Johnson, Report on the Migration to Chicago.]

[Footnote 115: In May, 1917, the Sherman House on Genesee Street in the heart of the city became
a negro hotel. It has 19 bedrooms and accommodates 35 men. It was poorly managed and dirty.
A barber shop, pool room and dining room were run in connection with it and were also poorly
managed. The manager of the hotel is one of the newcomers. A rooming house and dance hall for
negroes is operated in another section of the city. The Wilder Tanning Company was building
a hotel for 50 single men and individual houses of five, six, seven and eight rooms for families.
Houses for white workmen were to be built by the company after these were completed. Lawrence
Wilder, president of the company, stated that the building of these houses was no "experiment."
"They are being put up to stay." Hot and cold water, hot air, heat, electric lights, and shower
baths will be in the hotel. Single rooms will rent for $1.25, double rooms $2.50 per week.
No women will be permitted to live in the hotel. A social room will be within easy access of
all occupants. No meals will be served at the hotel, but will be served at the plant. The houses
will be one and two stories and can be purchased on a monthly basis. A street car line will
connect the plant and the subdivision.

Before the influx the Cyclone Fence Company and the Calk Mill Company were said to have sworn
never to employ negro labor. The Wilder Tanning Company and the American Steel and Wire Company
have standing invitations for negro men with references.--Johnson, Report on the Migration
to Chicago.]

[Footnote 116: They were employed by the Gasselli Chemical Company, Goldsmiths Detinning Company,
the International Lead Refining Company, the United States Reduction Company, the United States
Refining Company, Hobson and Walker's Brick Yard, the Inland Steel Foundry, Interstate Mill,
the Cudahy Soap Factory and the Republic Rolling Mill. The Hobson and Walker's Brick Yard employed
200 and provided houses within the yards for the families of the workmen. The International
Lead Refining Company provided lodging for its men in remodeled box cars. Wages for ordinary
labor ranged from $2.50 to $4.50 per day. This did not include the amount that might be made
by overtime work. The brick yard employed negroes for unskilled work at 35 cents an hour. A
few skilled negroes employed were receiving from $4.75 to $7 a day.

Negroes are fairly well scattered throughout the foreign residential section. A small area
known as "Oklahoma" or "Calumet" had perhaps the largest number. The houses were overcrowded,
dark, insanitary, without privacy and generally unattractive. All of the rooms were sleeping
rooms, usually with two beds in a room accommodating six men. Rent was high, and ranged from
$15 to $25 a month for four and five room flats in very unattractive buildings. Single lodgers
paid from $1.50 to $1.75 a week. Restaurant rates were exorbitant and food was so high that
many of the families bought their provisions in Chicago.

There were no churches or in fact any wholesome social institutions in town. There were many
flourishing saloons. There was one colored pool room, and one colored restaurant. On occasions,
a hall belonging to the whites was used for dances and socials.--Johnson, Report on the Migration
to Chicago.]

[Footnote 117: Following each pay day from twenty to thirty negroes left for their homes in
the South. Some returned when their funds were about exhausted and worked five or six months
more. Others remained at home for the winter. "It was expected that the brick yard would lose
a very large number on the 8th of November. On the 15th of December another large contingent
leaves for the South."--Johnson, Report on the Migration to Chicago.]

[Footnote 118: There was great congestion in housing, as the negroes were restricted to certain
sections with homes usually kept in insanitary condition. A very large housing plan of the
company met with objection on the part of the white citizens who sent in a petition to the
City Council against building houses for negroes. The City Council said they wanted the housing
property for park purposes. The matter was taken to court. The Council condemned the property
but failed to sustain the belief that it was needed for a park. Through various methods of
red tape and legal procedure the matter was delayed. The company then built houses on a smaller
scale. The plans included two apartment houses that would accommodate six families each. There
were also in the course of erection houses for men with families to take the place of some
improvised huts which the company had found necessary to use to facilitate the work of the
men.--Johnson, Report on the Migration to Chicago.]

[Footnote 119: Before 1910, 114 persons had arrived; between 1911 and 1915, 72; during 1916,
74; during 1917, 102; and during 1918, 40 persons had arrived.]

[Footnote 120: Johnson, Report on the Migration to Chicago.]

[Footnote 121: Johnson, Report on the Migration to Chicago.]

[Footnote 122: Johnson, Report on the Migration to Chicago.]

[Footnote 123: Johnson, Report on the Migration to Chicago.]

[Footnote 124: Johnson, Report on the Migration to Chicago.]

[Footnote 125: Ibid.]

[Footnote 126: A simple situation of this nature registers itself without explanation against
the character of negroes in the records of the firms. The Pfister-Vogel Company had a house
on Clinton Street in which lived twenty or more negroes. This location is eight or ten miles
away from the community in which negroes live. There are no amusements for these young men
around Clinton Street. The cars stop running at a comparatively early hour. If they go to the
city they must either come back in a taxicab or spend the evening away from home. It is less
expensive to spend the evening away. As a result they are late for work and may not report.
If they report, they are tired and unfit for work. If they do not they are put down as irregular
and unsteady.--Johnson, Report on the Migration to Chicago.]

CHAPTER XI

THE SITUATION AT POINTS IN THE MIDDLE WEST

The most important city in this section to be affected by the migration was Pittsburgh, the
gateway to the West. The Pittsburgh district is the center of the steel industry. For this
reason, the war caused the demand for labor to be extremely heavy there. Pittsburgh was one
of the centers to which the greatest number of negroes went. Before the migration, a considerable
number of negroes were employed there. In 1900, the negro population of Allegheny county, in
which Pittsburgh is situated, was 27,753. In 1910 it was 34,217. When the migration began,
the county had about 38,000 negroes. Investigations and estimates indicate that, at the end
of 1917, the negro population of the county had increased to almost 66,000. Epstein in his
survey of The Negro Migrant in Pittsburgh said:[127]

    From a canvass of twenty typical industries in the Pittsburgh
    district, it was found that there were 2,550 negroes employed
    in 1915, and 8,325 in 1917, an increase of 5,775 or 227 per
    cent. It was impossible to obtain labor data from more than
    approximately sixty per cent of the negro employing concerns,
    but it is fair to assume that the same ratio of increase holds
    true of the remaining forty per cent. On this basis the number
    of negroes now employed in the district may be placed at
    14,000. This means that there are about 9,750 more negroes
    working in the district today than there were in 1915, an
    addition due to the migration from the South.

According to Epstein, the migration had been going on for little longer than one year. Ninety-three
per cent of those who gave the time of residence in Pittsburgh had been there less than one
year. More than eighty per cent of the single men interviewed had been there less than six
months. In the number who had been there for the longest period, married men predominated,
showing the tendency of this class to become permanent residents. This fact becoming evident,
some industrial concerns bringing men from the South, having learned from bitter experience
that the mere delivery of negroes from a southern city did not guarantee a sufficient supply
of labor, made an effort to secure married men only, and even to investigate them prior to
their coming. Differences in recruiting methods may also explain why some employers and labor
agents hold a very optimistic view of the negro as a worker, while others despair of him. The
reason why Pittsburgh has been unable to secure a stable labor force is doubtless realized
by the local manufacturers. Married negroes come to the North to stay. They desire to have
their families with them, and if they are not accompanied North by their wives and children
they plan to have them follow at the earliest possible date.

It would appear that the stability of the labor supply depended to a very large extent upon
the housing conditions. It was found that in many instances men who had families went to other
cities where they hoped to find better accommodations. The Pittsburgh manufacturer will never
keep an efficient labor supply of negroes until he learns to compete with the employers of
other cities in a housing program as well as in wages. The negro migration in Pittsburgh, however,
did not cause a displacement of white laborers. Every man was needed, as there were more jobs
than men to fill them. Pittsburgh's industrial life was for a time dependent upon the negro
labor supply, and the city has not received a sufficient supply of negroes, and certainly not
so many as smaller industrial towns, although the railroads and a few of the industrial concerns
of the locality have had labor agents in the South. Yet, in spite of the difficulties because
of the obstructive tactics adopted in certain southern communities to prevent the negro exodus,
they have nevertheless succeeded in bringing several thousand negroes into this district. "One
company, for instance," says Epstein, "which imported about a thousand men within the past
year, had only about three hundred of these working at the time of the investigator's visit
in July, 1917. One railroad, which is said to have brought about fourteen thousand people to
the North within the last twelve months, has been able to keep an average of only eighteen
hundred at work." These companies, however, have failed to hold the newcomers.

The problems created by this sudden increase of Pittsburgh's population were very grave. In
the early part of 1917, plans were formulated to make a social survey of the migrants in Pittsburgh.
Cooperating in this survey were the University of Pittsburgh, the Associated Charities, the
Social Service Commission of the Churches of Christ and the National League on Urban Conditions
among Negroes. In March, 1917, the director of the Department of Public Health, instructed
the sanitary inspectors to pay special attention to all premises occupied by the "newcomers."
Another step in this direction was the establishment in that city of a branch of the National
League on Urban Conditions among Negroes.

A survey made in 1917 showed that the housing situation was the most serious aspect of the
migrants' social problems, and that in order to have improvements in other lines housing conditions
must be made better. Because of the high cost of materials and labor incident to the war, because
the taxation system still does not encourage improvements and because of investment attractions
other than in realty, few houses had been built and practically no improvements had been made.
This was most strikingly apparent in the poorer sections of the city. In the negro sections,
for instance, there had been almost no houses added and few vacated by whites within the previous
two years. The addition, therefore, of thousands of negroes just arrived from southern States
meant not only the creation of new negro quarters and the dispersion of negroes throughout
the city, but also the utmost utilization of every place in the negro sections capable of being
transformed into habitations. Attics and cellars, storerooms and basements, churches, sheds
and warehouses had to be employed for the accommodation of these newcomers. Whenever a negro
had space which he could possibly spare, it was converted into a sleeping place; as many beds
as possible were crowded into it, and the maximum number of men per bed were lodged. Either
because their own rents were high or because they were unable to withstand the temptation of
the sudden, and, for all they knew, temporary harvest, or perhaps because of the altruistic
desire to assist their race fellows, a majority of the negroes in Pittsburgh converted their
homes into lodging houses.

    Because rooms were hard to come by the lodgers were not
    disposed to complain about the living conditions or the prices
    charged. They were only too glad to secure a place where they
    could share a half or at least a part of an unclaimed bed. It
    was no easy task to find room for a family, as most boarding
    houses would accept only single men, and refused to admit
    women and children. Many a man, who with his family occupied
    only one or two rooms, made place for a friend or former
    townsman and his family. In many instances this was done from
    unselfish motives and in a humane spirit.[128]

How the negroes are employed will throw more light on their situation. The Epstein investigation
showed that

    Ninety-five per cent of the migrants who stated their
    occupations were doing unskilled labor, in the steel mills,
    the building trades, on the railroads, or acting as servants,
    porters, janitors, cooks and cleaners. Only twenty, or
    four per cent out of 493 migrants whose occupations were
    ascertained, were doing what may be called semiskilled
    or skilled work, as puddlers, mold-setters, painters and
    carpenters. On the other hand, in the South 59 out of 529
    claimed to have been engaged in skilled labor, while a large
    number were rural workers.

The following table shows the occupations of migrants in Pittsburgh as compared with statements
of occupations in the South:

Occupations     In  Pittsburgh        %     In South           %

Common laborer     468               95        286            54
Skilled
  or semiskilled    20                4         59            11
Farmer              --               --         81            15
Miner               --               --         36             7
Sawmill workers     --               --          9             2
Ran own farm or
  father's farm     --               --         22             5
Ran farm on crop
  sharing basis     --               --         33             6
Other occupations    5                1          0             0

It seems clear that most of the migrants were engaged in unskilled labor. The reason given
by the manufacturers in accounting for this disparity were that the migrants are inefficient
and unstable, and that the opposition to them on the part of the white labor prohibits their
use on skilled jobs.[1] Ninety-five per cent of the negro workers in the steel mills were unskilled
laborers. "In the bigger plants," says the investigator, "where many hundreds of negroes are
employed, almost one hundred per cent are doing common labor, while in the smaller plants,
a few might be found doing labor which required some skill." Epstein believes that this idea
is often due to the prejudice of the heads of departments and other labor employers. A sympathetic
superintendent of one of the large steel plants said that in many instances it was the superintendents
and managers themselves who are not alive to their own advantage, and so oppose the negroes
in doing the better classes of work. The same superintendent said that he had employed negroes
for many years; that a number of them had been connected with his company for several years;
that they are just as efficient as the white people. More than half of the twenty-five negroes
in his plant were doing semiskilled and even skilled work. He had one or two negro foremen
over negro gangs, and cited an instance of a black man drawing $114 in his last two weeks'
pay. This claim was supported by a very intelligent negro who was stopped a few blocks away
from the plant and questioned as to the conditions there. However, the number of those who
said they received high wages in the South is greater than the number of those receiving them
there. Fifteen per cent said they received more than $3.60 a day at home, while only five per
cent said they received more than that rate for twelve hours' work there. Sixty-seven per cent
of the 453 persons stating their earnings here, earn less than $3 a day. Twenty-eight per cent
earn from $3 to $3.60 a day, while only five per cent earn more than $3.60 a day. The average
working day for both Pittsburgh and the South is ten and four-tenths hours. The average wage
is $2.85 here; in the South it amounted to $2.15. It may be interesting to point out that the
number of married men who work longer hours and receive more money is proportionately greater
than that of the single men, who have not "given hostage to fortune."

Judging from what has been said about the habits of living among the negro migrants in Pittsburgh,
they are of the best class of their race. Chief among those to be mentioned is their tendency
to abstain from the use of intoxicants although it has often been said that the cause of the
migration from the South was due to the desire of negroes in prohibition States to go where
they may make free use of whisky. In this city it was observed that out of 470 persons who
answered questions with reference to whether or not they imbibed only 210 of them said that
they drank, while 267 made no use of intoxicants at all. It was also observed that among those
who have families, the percentage of those addicted to drink is much smaller than that of others
who are single or left their families in the South. This, no doubt, accounts for the orderly
conduct of these negroes who, according to statistics, have not experienced a wave of crime.
The records of the courts show numerous small offenses charged to the account of negroes, but
these usually result from temptations and snares set by institutions of vice which are winked
at by the community.

These negroes, on the whole, are thrifty and will eventually attach themselves permanently
to the community through the acquisition of desirable property and elevation to positions of
trust in the industries where they are employed. Evidences of the lazy and shiftless and the
immoral are not frequent, because of a sort of spirit of thrift pervading the whole group.
Many of the families have savings accounts in banks, and practically all of the married men
separated from their families in the South send a large portion of their earnings from time
to time. Money order receipts and stubs of checks examined show that these remittances to distant
families range from between $5 to $10 a week. Others have seen fit to divert their income to
objects more enterprising. They are educating their children, purchasing homes and establishing
businesses to minister to the needs of their own peculiar group.

In view of the desirability of most migrants in this city, several persons have seen fit to
make a comparison of the negro and foreign labor, with a view to determining whether or not
the employment of negroes in the North will be permanent, as they may easily be displaced by
the foreigners immigrating into this country in the future. The consensus of opinion is that
the blacks are profitable laborers, but that their efficiency must be decidedly increased to
compete with that of the white workers. Some of the faults observed are that they are as yet
unadapted to the "heavy and pace-set labor in the steel mills." Accustomed to the comparatively
easy going plantation and farm work of the South, it will take some time for these migrants
to find themselves. "They can not even be persuaded to wait until pay day, and they like to
get money in advance, following the habit that they acquired from the southern credit system.
It is often secured on very flimsy pretexts and spent immediately in the saloons and similar
places." Yet the very persons who make this estimate of the negro laborer say that the negroes
born in the North or who have been in the North some time are as efficient as the whites, and
that because of their knowledge of the language and the ways of this country, they are often
much better than the foreign laborers who understand neither.

The principal industrial centers in Ohio to which the migrants went were Cincinnati, Middletown,
Akron, Dayton, Springfield, Youngstown, Columbus and Cleveland. The city which took the lead
in endeavoring to handle the migration problem was Cleveland. This was due to a considerable
extent to the fact that the housing conditions in Cleveland were especially bad. Investigations
made in the summer of 1917 by the Chamber of Commerce showed that housing conditions never
were so in need of remedying as they were at that time. The influx of negroes, thousands of
whom were living in box cars on railway sidings, was only one feature of the problem, investigators
say. In nearly every part of the city, and especially in the vicinity of large manufacturing
plants, workers are herded together, paying as much as $8 a week for a single room for a whole
family.[130]

The Cleveland Welfare Federation appointed a committee composed of representatives of both
races, to study problems made acute in Cleveland by the recent incoming of probably 10,000
negroes from the South. At the first meeting of this committee, August 3, 1917, the city welfare
department announced that 61 per cent of the men in the workhouse at Warrensville were negroes
and that of 100 women 66 were negroes. The normal proportion of negroes in the workhouse before
the migration began was about 10 per cent, he said. This had mounted rapidly in the last year.
It was brought out that the cause of this increase lay in housing congestion, lack of opportunities
for recreation and because negro migrants are ignorant of the city's customs, laws and ordinances.
A subcommittee was therefore appointed to look into this matter, as well as into that of perils
surrounding newly arrived negro girls. A subcommittee was also appointed to study housing congestion
and health problems. The secretary of the Cleveland Real Estate Board reiterated that there
were 10,000 houses, renting at $25 and under, needed at the present time for both negro and
white residents, and that, owing to labor difficulties and the high price of building materials,
very little had been done to relieve the situation. He stated that a partial solution could
be found in inducing both negro and white people who could afford to build or buy houses to
do so, and thus free more houses for those who can not afford to buy them. It was asserted
that unless something should be done before cold weather the housing problem would become acute.[131]
To assist in meeting the house shortage a group of prominent negroes organized "The Realty
Housing and Investment Company."[132]

The negro churches and other organizations cooperated in the effort to solve the problem of
caring for the newly arrived negroes. In December, 1917, all the organizations and agencies
working to aid the migrants were united in the Negro Welfare Association of Cleveland.[133]
William R. Connors, a negro social worker, was employed as executive secretary of the new organization,
beginning January 1, and offices were opened in the Phyllis Wheatley Association Building at
East 40th Street and Central Avenue. The budget for the first year was estimated at about $5,000.

The organization acted as a clearing house for all the problems confronting the negro people
there and cooperated with other agencies in the following activities: relief work, nursing
service, legal aid, employment, promoting thrift, providing recreation through the public schools
and otherwise, studying the delinquency problem, caring for discharged prisoners in cooperation
with the workhouse and promoting community singing. It investigated the social conditions among
negroes, with a view to establishing those agencies which are needed, or to point out the needs
to the organization already established. It endeavored to educate the negro public to a full
appreciation of the possibilities of a definite social program and to its responsibility for
seeing that it is carried out.

In June, 1916, a call was issued for a statewide conference of representative white and colored
people to be held at the capital of the State, Columbus, on July 12, 1916, to take steps toward
caring for the 100,000 negro migrants believed to have remained in Ohio. Among those who signed
the call were J. Walter Wills, President of Cleveland Association of Colored Men; Reverend
H.C. Bailey, President of National Association for the Advancement of Colored People; W.S.
Scarborough, President of Wilberforce University; Charles Johnson, Superintendent of Champion
Chemical Company, Springfield, and Edward T. Banks, member of Charter Commission, Dayton.[134]
The mayors of Ohio cities named delegates to the conference. At this conference the Ohio Federation
for the Uplift of the Colored People was formed, and an extensive program designed to improve
economic and social conditions was outlined. Branches of the Federation were soon established
at Akron, Columbus, Cleveland, Cincinnati, Dayton, Piqua, Steubenville, Youngstown and other
points.

Reports showing labor, housing, general welfare and health conditions among the negroes throughout
the State were compiled and distributed broadcast. It was also decided to send lecturers through
Ohio cities to visit negro centers for the purpose of instilling within the race a desire for
better living conditions. A campaign was waged also to bring about greater censorship of motion
pictures. Efforts were made to have the State Council of National Defense and the State and
City Labor Bureaus actively interest themselves in the problem of negro employment.[135]

The State of Ohio also undertook an investigation of the migration movement. Reports to the
Ohio branch, Council of National Defense, indicated a very serious situation resulting from
the exodus of negroes. An investigation at direction of Governor Cox was conducted by the Council
and State Department, to get as much information as possible concerning the unprecedented migration.
The first work was a study of health conditions in several cities by the State Department of
Health, which took immediate steps to correct evils. The negroes who were coming into the State
were being crowded into the negro sections of the various cities in such a way that the health
of these communities, in many cases was being seriously threatened. The Council of National
Defense asked the Ohio branch for information on the migration, particularly to learn if it
had been artificially stimulated and accelerated by agencies that have paid so many dollars
a head for every negro from the South.[136]

Detroit, because of its importance as an industrial center, was one of the places to which
the largest number of migrants to Michigan went. The negro population of the city in 1910 was
5,741. It is now estimated that the city has between 25,000 and 35,000 blacks, three-fourths
or more of whom have come there during the past two years. As elsewhere, the majority of the
negroes are in unskilled occupations. There is, however, a considerable number of skilled and
semiskilled workers. Detroit was formerly a city where the negro was restricted to a very few
lines of work.

The wartime pressing needs of the industrial enterprises have caused the barriers to be removed.
The available evidence that Detroit has removed the barriers from the employment of negroes
in many lines is considerable. There were calls for 336 truckers, 160 molders, 109 machinists,
45 core makers and for a number of other miscellaneous skilled and semiskilled men. Most of
the women were wanted in domestic and personal service in private homes, but 32 calls came
from a garment factory, 18 from a cigar factory and 19 for ushers in a theater.

Their wages were exceptionally high according to Dr. George E. Haynes' intensive study of the
returns of 407 families. One received between $30 and $39 a month; three received between $40
and $49, six received between $60 and $69; 20 received between $70 and $79; 96 received between
$80 and $89; 6 received between $90 and $99; 27 received between $100 and $119; 21 received
between $120 and $129, and 4 received $140 or more a month. There was a man working at $6.30
a day. The number of days they were employed a month could not be ascertained. There were 161
men whose monthly wages were doubtful or unknown, two men were the owners of a business and
five were unemployed. Of the 45 women who were the heads of families, 13 were doing day's work
at $2 a day and one at $2.50 a day, but the number of days they were employed could not be
ascertained and so the monthly wages could not be calculated. There were two women earning
between $40 and $49 a month and three earning between $70 and $79 a month. The monthly wages
of 26 were doubtful or unknown. "As far as these figures are typical of the wages of negro
workmen in Detroit," says Dr. Haynes, "they show that the prevailing wages of the men are from
about $70 to $119 a month; for, 159 of the 194 men whose wages were ascertained were receiving
wages ranging between these amounts. The prevailing wage for women is about that of those doing
day work, $2 a day."[137]

In Detroit, as in other places, there is conflict of opinion as to the value of the negro as
a laborer. The survey of the migrants there showed that there were diverse views about the
suitability of negro labor. Mr. Charles M. Culver, General Manager of the Detroit Employers
Association, thought some employers were highly pleased with negro workmen and some were not.
He said:

    There are two lines of adverse opinion about the negro as a
    workman; first, nine-tenths of the complaints of employers
    are that he is too slow. He does not make the speed that the
    routine of efficient industry demands. He is lacking in the
    regularity demanded by routine of industry day by day.
    Second, the negro has been observed to be disinclined to
    work out-of-doors when the cold weather comes. Employers have
    discussed this and have not found the negro satisfactory
    on this point. Unless the negroes overcome this practice
    employers will turn to other sources of supply when their
    present extreme needs are past. Employers must have a labor
    supply upon which they can depend at all seasons--laborers who
    will work out-of-doors winter as well as summer.

Speaking of the colored women employed in the manufacture of garments by the Krolick Company,
Mr. Cohen, the superintendent, said his greatest difficulty was in overcoming the timidity
of the girls and in inducing them to believe they can become successful operators and earn
good wages.

The peculiar situation caused by the sudden increase of the city's negro population was met
by organized efforts directed, in the main, by the local branch of the National League on Urban
Conditions among Negroes, which here also took the lead in helping the migrants adjust themselves.[138]
Among the important things done by the league were the establishing of a vocational bureau,
a bureau of investigation and information regarding houses, and a committee on recreation;
the inaugurating of a ten cent "newcomers" community dance, which was held every Tuesday evening
in a public school in the heart of the negro district; the development of athletic features
for the immigrants, and the organization of a branch of "Camp Fire Girls." The league induced
one of the largest foundries to build low-priced homes for its negro employes near the plant.
It also somewhat relieved the housing problem by the purchase of leases from the proprietresses
of a number of disorderly houses which were closed by the police. In each case the league persuaded
some manufacturer to take over the lease, and in this way a large number of negro families
were accommodated. It also kept a list of vacant houses and was surprised to find how many
of them were not listed by commercial real estate agents.

The league persuaded the police commissioner to appoint a special officer, selected by the
league especially for the newcomers. It is his duty to mingle with crowds on the streets where
the newcomers congregate and urge them not to make a nuisance of themselves by blocking sidewalks,
boisterous behavior and the like. He was also provided with cards directing newcomers to the
office of the league when in need of employment. The league itself kept a close watch on the
negro underworld of Detroit and immediately apprised the police when dives were developed especially
to prey on the immigrant.

The Board of Commerce cooperated in a movement for the investigation and improvement of working
conditions of negro employes in the various manufacturing plants in Detroit. The Board of Health
gave considerable assistance in obtaining better and more sanitary housing conditions. The
aid of several mothers' clubs among the colored women was enlisted to instruct immigrant mothers
in the proper diet and clothing for children in a northern climate. From the outset, the aim
was not only to put each migrant in a decent home but also to connect him with some church.
Many times the churches reciprocated with considerable material as well as spiritual assistance.

Valued cooperation was given by the Young Negroes' Progressive Association, a body of thirty-four
young colored men, most of whom attended the various schools and colleges about Detroit. They
have been the finest possible agents in the development of all the different activities. In
the adjustment of the negro, a definite place must be given to the development of industrial
efficiency. In pursuance of this object the league, with the assistance of the Progressive
Association, carried on a movement.[139] Representatives of the two organizations visit the
various factories where large numbers of negroes are employed and talk to them during the noon
hour on the necessity of creating the best possible impression at the present time so that
they may be certain of retaining their jobs in the future. At the same time, the speakers circulate
these cards:

  WHY HE FAILED

  He watched the clock.
  He was always behindhand.
  He asked too many questions.
  He wasn't ready for the next step.
  He did not put his heart in his work.
  He learned nothing from his blunders.
  He was contented to be a second-rater.
  He didn't learn that the best part of his salary was not in his pay envelope.
                                                                --Success.

[Footnote 127: Epstein, The Negro Migrant in Pittsburgh, p. 7.]

[Footnote 128: Epstein, The Negro Migrant in Pittsburgh, pp. 7-8.]

[Footnote 128: The latter objection is illustrated by the case of the white bargemen of a big
steel company who wanted to walk out because black workers were introduced among them, and
who were only appeased by the provision of separate quarters for the negroes. While there is
an undeniable hostility to negroes on the part of a few white workers, the objection is frequently
exaggerated by prejudiced gang bosses.]

[Footnote 129: The same superintendent told of an episode illustrating the amicable relations
existing in his shop between white and black workers. He related that a gang of workers had
come to him with certain complaints and the threat of a walkout. When their grievances had
been satisfactorily adjusted, they pointed to the lonely black man in their group and said
that they were not ready to go back unless their negro fellow worker was satisfied.]

[Footnote 130: Cleveland News, August 11, 1917.]

[Footnote 131: Cleveland Plain Dealer, August 4, 1917.]

[Footnote 132: An advertisement of this company in the Cleveland Advocate was as follows:

    Cleveland is short 10,000 houses:

    The city on Lake Erie is face to face with the problem of
    "Housing the People!" We have been on the job day in and day
    out and are pleased to announce that we have just played a
    master stroke.

    You may ask what is it? We will answer.

    We have just secured the group of seven apartment houses which
    are rapidly nearing completion on East 40th Street between
    Central and Scoville Avenues. Three and four room suites
    with bath, hot water, electric lights, gas ranges, heating
    appliances, refrigerators, Murphy in-a-dor beds. Laundry just
    waiting to be occupied. All for colored people.
]

[Footnote 133: Cleveland Town Topics, December 22, 1917.]

[Footnote 134: Dayton News, July 7, 1917.]

[Footnote 135: Cincinnati Enquirer, September 12, 1917]

[Footnote 136: Columbus Dispatch, August 1, 1917.]

[Footnote 137: Haynes, Survey of the Migrants in Detroit.]

[Footnote 138: The Urban League is maintained by the Associated Charities and private individuals
to study Detroit's negro problem and improve the condition of the city's negroes. Forrester
B. Washington is director in charge of the league. The organization will aim to direct negro
sentiment and support along lines of best interests for Detroit.--Detroit News, November 6. 1916.]

[Footnote 139: Two surveys of the migrants in Detroit were made. One was under the auspices
of the negro committee of the Home Missions' Council of the Churches of Christ in America and
was published under the title, "Negro Newcomers in Detroit." This survey investigated industrial
opportunities, housing and recreation facilities, and the work which the churches were doing
and should do for Detroit's newcomers.

The Church Extension Committee of the Detroit Presbytery made a survey of the negro problem
in Detroit. This survey showed that the negro population of the city has grown from 5,000 in
1910 to 21,000 in 1917. The negro churches of the city are utterly inadequate to take care
of the religious needs of the race here, it was shown.]

CHAPTER XII

THE SITUATION AT POINTS IN THE EAST

No less conspicuous as attractions to the negroes of the South were the various industries
of the State of Pennsylvania. Although not so closely connected with the Black Belt of the
South as are so many of the industrial centers of the West, Pennsylvania nevertheless was sought
by many of these migrants because of the long accepted theory that this commonwealth maintains
a favorable attitude toward persons of color. It drew upon this population too because of the
very urgent need for workers in its numerous industries during the labor crisis resulting from
the falling off of the foreign immigration. When, moreover, manufacturing establishments of
the State multiplied as elsewhere because of the demand for the manufacture of munitions of
war, this need became more urgent than ever.

According to the census of 1910, the State of Pennsylvania had 193,919 inhabitants of negro
blood, 84,459 of whom lived in the city of Philadelphia. During the recent rush to that commonwealth,
however, investigators are now of the opinion that the negro population of that State is hardly
less than 300,000. These migrants were, of course, not all settled in the city of Philadelphia.
Here we see another example of a rerouting point, a place where the migration broke bulk, scattering
itself into the various industrial communities desiring labor. Among the other cities and towns
receiving this population were practically all of those within a radius of about one hundred
miles of Philadelphia, such as Lancaster, Pottsville, York, Altoona, Harrisburg and certain
other towns lying without the State, as in the case of Wilmington, Delaware, a site of a large
munitions plant. In some cases the negro population in these towns increased more than 100
per cent in a few days.

The chief factors in the bringing in of these negroes from the South were the leading railroads
like the Erie and Pennsylvania. During the shortage of labor, these corporations found it impossible
to keep their systems in repair. In this situation, they, like the smaller concerns further
west, sent labor agents to the South to induce negroes to supply this demand. Unfortunately,
however, so many of the negroes who had their transportation paid by these firms counted it
more profitable to leave their employ immediately after arriving, because of the unusually
high wages offered by smaller industries in just as urgent need of labor. Instead of supplying
their own demand, therefore, the railroads were benefiting their neighbors.

A better idea as to the extent of the congestion made possible by this influx of newcomers
may be obtained from the comments of observers in that section. Traveling men tell us of the
crowded houses and congested streets which marked the places wherever these migrants stopped.
Housing facilities being inadequate, temporary structures were quickly built and when these
did not suffice, in the case of railroads, ordinary tents and box cars were used to shelter
the new laborers. Owing to these unsatisfactory conditions and the inability of employers to
ameliorate them, the migration was to some extent discouraged, and in a few cases a number
of the migrants returned to their homes in the South, so that the number that actually came
into the State is much less than it would have been, had it been possible to receive and adequately
accommodate the negroes in their new homes.

In Philadelphia the situation at first became unusually critical. Being closer to the Southland
than most of the large cities of the country, the people of Philadelphia are much more prejudiced
against the negro than those in some other northern cities. It was necessary, therefore, upon
their arrival in that city for them to crowd into the district largely restricted to negroes,
giving rise to such unhappy conditions as to jeopardize the peace and health of the community.
Numbers of these migrants died from exposure during the first winter, and others who died because
of their inability to stand the northern climate made the situation seem unusually alarming.
It was necessary, therefore, to organize social workers to minister to the peculiar needs of
these newcomers. Appeals were made in their behalf and a number of prominent citizens felt
that it was necessary to urge them to remain in the South.

The solution of this problem was rendered a little more difficult for the reason that here,
as in many other centers in the North, the newcomers were not welcomed by their own race. Philadelphia
had for years been pointed to as having a respectable, thrifty and prosperous colored population,
enjoying the good will and the cooperation of the best white people in the community. These
northern negroes felt then that the coming of their brethren in the rough did them a decided
injury in giving rise to a race problem in a northern community where it had not before figured.
This unusual influx of other members of the race greatly stimulated that tendency to segregate
negro children in the schools, to the deep regret of the older citizens of Philadelphia. Other
social privileges as in theaters, churches and the like, formerly allowed the negro citizens
of that city, tended gradually to be withdrawn.

The negro migrants were not altogether innocent. Many of them used their liberty in their northern
home as a stumbling block. Receiving there such high wages which they could not judiciously
spend, the unwise of their group used this unusually large income to their own detriment and
to that of the community. It was indeed difficult to restrain a poor man who never had had
a few dollars, when just arrived from a section of the country where he had not only been poor
but restricted even in expending what income he received. Many of them received $6, $7 and
in a few cases $8 to $10 a day. They frequented saloons and dens of vice, thereby increasing
the number of police court cases and greatly staining the record of the negroes in that city.
A number of fracases, therefore, broke out from time to time, growing in intensity in keeping
with the condition to which the community, unaccustomed to negro neighbors, saw fit to manifest
its displeasure. This finally culminated in the recent riots in Philadelphia in which a number
of blacks and whites were killed.

Feeling that they did not have the support of the officers of the law, the negroes of the city
organized a Colored Protective Association and raised a fund for the prosecution of policemen
and others who might aid mobs. The method of strengthening itself is to organize the churches
of the city with a view to securing the cooperation of every negro there. To advance this work,
a large sum has been raised. Other efforts of this sort in behalf of the negroes in Philadelphia
have been made by the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People and the Armstrong
Association in cooperation with the National League on Urban Conditions among Negroes.

Social workers in general soon found it necessary to address themselves to the task of readjusting
these migrants.[140] The Philadelphia Academy of Medicine, composed of negro physicians, dentists
and druggists, put into effect measures calculated to meet requirements for housing, sanitation,
medical attention and education. Systematic medical inspections were given, and projects for
the erection of houses and the adaptation of existing buildings for lodgings are under way.
Eighty negro physicians of the city collected information which took the form of a weekly report
of the Bureau of Health. Real estate dealers were asked to submit lists of every house immediately
available for the relief of the overcrowded buildings then occupied by the negroes and to provide
hundreds of new ones, cheaply but substantially constructed. Stereopticon lectures and talks
were given on an increasing scale in all the negro churches telling the new arrivals how to
care for themselves in the Philadelphia climate, how to avoid colds, which lead to pneumonia
and tuberculosis, the two most common diseases among them, and other useful information in general.

The Interdenominational Ministerial Union of Philadelphia, embracing all the negro ministers
of the city, drew up certain resolutions setting forth their views relative to the migration
and making some suggestions concerning the situation in Philadelphia. They pledged themselves
to look after the comfort of the migrants in every way possible, urged them to join the churches
and other organizations for improvement, and send their children to the schools, and to utilize
the libraries, night schools and other agencies of culture which were denied them in the South.
These ministers urged them also to work regularly, and give their best services to their employers
regardless of pay, remembering always that the race is on trial in them; that they save their
money, and purchase homes and become a part of the substantial citizenry as soon as possible.[141]

A Negro Migration Committee was formed, composed of eight workers from social agencies and
charitable societies, to provide suitable housing for negro families arriving in this city
and to aid them in getting work. Each member of the committee is to work through the organization
he represents and be responsible for one specific phase of the problem.[142]

Notwithstanding the efforts that were made to improve the housing conditions, the situation
in this respect continued to grow worse. In December of 1917, representatives of the various
social agencies and of the corporations employing large numbers of negroes met in a conference
on the housing situation. "All the questions involved in the reasons for the colored people
coming north and the problem of housing and caring for them were seriously discussed."

    Some representatives of the corporations asserted that the men
    were not reliable and dependable, going from place to place
    and only working a few days in each week. The social service
    workers stated that the reason for this is that there are not
    a sufficient number of houses in which to take care of the men
    and their families, and that the districts in which they lived
    were shamefully crowded. According to these workers the only
    way in which the men can be made satisfied is by providing
    more homes for them in sanitary and wholesome quarters. After
    thoroughly considering the problem a permanent committee was
    appointed to deal with the problem in all its aspects.[143]

One of the most effective agencies for dealing with the situation created by thousands of negroes
migrating north was the Armstrong Association. This association gave special attention to stabilizing
negro labor and to improving the housing conditions. The association brought before several
corporations conditions of housing and recreation which would enable them to retain their workers.
They provided a negro welfare worker for the American International Shipbuilding Company, to
attend to the stabilizing of negro labor. The association is perfecting plans for better housing
of negro workers and the providing of recreation centers, such as are now enjoyed in virtually
every city by the white workers. The association obtained the cooperation of a number of large
industrial firms and corporations in this city, to aid it in the employment of competent negro
welfare workers to help adjust existing conditions, making for greater efficiency and reliability
among the negro race.

The demand for labor by the many industrial plants located in New Jersey caused that State
to get a very large proportion of the negro migrants and as a result to have, in acute form,
the problem of housing conditions and the other problems incident to a large number of migrants
being within her borders. To assist in caring for the situation a Negro Welfare League was
organized with branches at various points in the State.

Writing on the situation in New Jersey, a contributor of The Survey, for February 17, 1917, states:

    The native negro residents of the city and suburban towns have
    been kind and generous in helping the southern stranger. They
    have collected money to send numbers back home, and when
    the bitter cold weather began they collected and distributed
    thousands of garments. Resident negroes have also taken
    hundreds of newcomers into their own homes until rooms could
    be found for them. But, while different churches and kind
    hearted people had been most active in helping individually,
    there was no concerted movement to bring all these forces
    together until the organization of the Negro Welfare League
    of New Jersey. Industries of New Jersey have utterly failed
    to provide the housing which would enable their negro help
    to live decently and in enough comfort so that while growing
    accustomed to their unusual work, they might be stimulated to
    become useful and efficient.

    In the last two weeks the Negro Welfare Committee, with the
    help of an investigation of 120 self-supporting families, all
    of whom were found in the worst sections of the city, showed
    that 166 adults--only twenty of whom are over forty years of
    age--and 134 children, a total of 300 souls, are all crowded
    into insanitary dark quarters, averaging four and two-sevenths
    persons to a room. These fifty-three families paid a total
    rent per month of $415.50, an average of $7.66. The average
    wage of these people is $2.60 a day. In not one of the 120
    families was there a wage earner making the maximum wage of
    $3 and $4 a day. Some of the reports in brief were: "Wife and
    children living over a stable. Husband earning $11 a week."
    Three families in four rooms, "a little house not fit for a
    chicken coop." "A sorry looking house for so much money, $15 a
    month; doors off the hinges, water in the cellar, two families
    in five rooms." "Indescribable; so dark they must keep the
    light burning all day." "This family lives in three rooms on
    the second floor of a rickety frame house, built on the side
    of a hill, so that the back rooms are just above the ground.
    The entrance is in a muddy, disorderly yard and is through
    a tunnel in the house. The rooms are hard to heat because of
    cracks. A boy of eighteen was in bed breathing heavily, very
    ill with pneumonia, delirious at times." Unused to city life,
    crowded into dark rooms, their clothing and household utensils
    unsuitable, the stoves they have brought being all too small
    to heat even the tiny rooms they have procured (the instalment
    houses are charging from $20 to $30 for these stoves),
    shivering with the cold from which they do not know how
    to protect themselves, it is small wonder that illness has
    overtaken large numbers.[144]

Newark, New Jersey, was one of the places to which the migrants first came in large numbers.
William H. Maxwell, President of the Negro Forward Movement, of that city, issued an appeal
for the protection from the unscrupulous of southern negroes migrating to Newark. He declared
that they were being made to work for lower wages than they had been promised and that storekeepers
and dealers were charging them high prices for worthless goods. The Newark Presbytery took
up the matter of proper housing and clothing of the migrants who were unaccustomed to the rigors
of a northern climate.

On September 23, 1917, a State conference of negroes was held in Newark to devise ways and
means to cooperate with the State authorities in looking after the welfare of migrants. Soon
after this conference, it was decided to establish a State bureau, "for the welfare and employment
of the colored citizens in the State and particularly to look after the housing, employment
and education of the citizens migrating from the South." On October 12, Governor Edge had a
number of social workers among the negroes to meet him, "to discuss the several perplexing
and grave economic, industrial and social problems arising from the steady influx of the negro
migrants from the South." The conference was held in the Assembly room at the State House.
Col. Lewis T. Bryant, Commissioner of Labor, presided. After many reports and discussions of
work accomplished in various parts of the State, the body voted to accept the proposed Negro
Welfare Bureau, under the Department of Labor. A fund of $7,500 is available for the coming
year's maintenance and work. The scope of this bureau's work was employment, housing, social
welfare and readjustment, education and legal fairness. This bureau acted as a welfare clearing
house for all social agencies working for the betterment of the colored people.

At the next session of the legislature, a bill was passed, February, 1918, establishing in
the Department of Labor the Negro Welfare Employment Bureau. According to a report of the work
of the Negro Welfare Bureau made public in April, 1918, considerable progress in the work of
improving both the migrating negroes to New Jersey from the South as well as the members of
the race generally who have been in this State for some time has been made. With the possible
exception of Salem and Hudson counties, the sheriffs of the State report no increase of criminality
from the migration of negroes from the South. At Pennsgrove in Salem county, where the Du Pont
powder plants are located, Sheriff William T. Eiffin reports that considering the increase
in population there has been an increase in crime in that county, but that the situation is
well in hand and diminishing to normal.[145]

Hartford was one of the industrial centers to which large numbers of the migrating negroes
went. The housing problem became acute and the chief efforts of those endeavoring to better
the conditions of migrants was along this line. Religious, civic and commercial bodies gave
attention to the amelioration of this problem.[146] The problem of housing negroes who were
coming in greater numbers each year to Hartford was taken up briefly by speakers at the 128th
annual meeting of the Hartford Baptist Association at the Shiloh Baptist Church. It was decided
to bring the housing problem before the attention of the Chamber of Commerce, which, it was
said, some time before had appointed a committee to investigate it. Negroes complained that
they were obliged to pay higher rent than white folks and that they were obliged by landlords
to live together in cramped quarters that were, by reason of the crowding, insanitary. They
said also that the living of several families almost as one family leads to a breaking down
of the moral and religious ideals.[147] Conditions in Hartford resulting from the bringing
of more than 2,500 negroes from the South were discussed at the fall meeting of the Confidential
Exchange with a view to preparing for these new arrivals.

At the June, 1917, meeting of the Chamber of Commerce, a committee was appointed from that
body to investigate housing conditions and to cooperate with other agencies in improving them.
The committee met frequently through the summer with the housing committee of the Civic Club,
in an endeavor to ascertain the facts bearing upon the present situation. It had before it
leading colored citizens, ministers, business men and industrial workers, some of whom have
lived here for years and others who have recently arrived from the South. It was discovered
that there was, at that time, plenty of work and at good wages, but the universal complaint
was the lack of homes suitable for proper living and the extortionate prices asked for rents.
Negroes in Hartford were suffering from the cupidity of landlords. They were obliged to live
in poor tenements and under unhealthful conditions because accommodations of another class
were withheld from them. For such inferior accommodations they were charged outrageous rents,
because selfish property owners knowing that negroes must live charged all the traffic would
bear. Partial relief was obtained from the immediate need by the purchase of buildings already
erected, and homes for them were later built. It appeared that for the first time in many years
Hartford had a race problem on its hands.

[Footnote 140: The Philadelphia North American, February 2, 1917.]

[Footnote 141: Resolutions of the Interdenominational Union.]

[Footnote 142: Philadelphia Inquirer, March 2, 1917.]

[Footnote 143: The Living Church, December 22, 1917.]

[Footnote 144: Cotton Pickers in Northern Cities, The Survey, February 17, 1917.]

[Footnote 145: The Courier (Camden, N.J.), April 30, 1918.]

[Footnote 146: The Hartford Courant, September 19, 1917.]

[Footnote 147: The Hartford Post, October 9, 1917.]

CHAPTER XIII

REMEDIES FOR RELIEF BY NATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS

The sudden influx of thousands of negro workers to northern industrial centers created and
intensified problems. More comprehensive and definite plans for aiding the migrants were, therefore,
worked out and more effective methods of help instituted during 1917. A conference on negro
migration was held in New York City under the auspices of the National League on Urban Conditions
among Negroes, January 29-31, 1918. Among those attending the conference were representatives
of capital, of labor, of housing conditions, the Immigration Bureau of Social Uplift Work for
Negroes and others. The subjects considered were causes and consequences of the migration,
present conditions of those migrating and what is to be done to aid in the negroes' adjustment
to their new environment.

The conference was of the impression that negroes, then migrating to the North in unprecedented
numbers, were preparing to come in larger numbers in the spring. It, therefore, recommended
that wherever possible, whether in the city or rural community, organizations be formed to
foster good feeling between the two races, to study the health, school and work needs of the
negro population, to develop agencies and stimulate activities to meet those needs, by training
and health protection to increase the industrial efficiency of negroes and to encourage a fairer
attitude toward negro labor, especially in regard to hours, conditions and regularity of work
and standard of wages, and to increase the respect for law and the orderly administration of
justice. It further recommended that similar organizations be formed or existing organizations
urged to take action which, in addition to the purposes already mentioned, should seek to instruct
the negro migrants as to the dress, habits and methods of living necessary to withstand the
rigors of the northern climate; as to efficiency, regularity and application demanded of workers
in the North; as to the danger of dealing or going with unscrupulous or vicious persons and
of frequenting questionable resorts; as to the opportunities offered by the towns and cities
of the North in schools, hospitals, police protection and employment, and as to facilities
offered by the church, Y.M.C.A. and other organizations.

The various religious denominations among negroes were profoundly affected by the migration
movement. The sudden moving of thousands of communicants from one section of the country to
the other caused many churches in the South to become disorganized and in some instances to
be broken up. In the North the facilities of particular denominations were inadequate to accommodate
the new communicants who would worship in the church of their particular faith. In some instances,
it was necessary to hold double services in order that all who wished to attend the services
might be accommodated. A writer in the Southwestern Christian Advocate, the organ of the negro
members of the Methodist Episcopal Church, said: "The movement of the negroes by the thousands
from the South to the North raises a many sided question. The missionary view is the logical
view for the church, and that side of the question falls logically upon her hands for solution."[148]

The Boards of Missions of white denominations carrying on work among negroes made studies of
the migration movement. Dr. Gilbert N. Brink, Secretary for Education of the American Baptist
Home Mission Society, issued a pamphlet on "Negro Migration, What does it Mean?"[149] "The
Invasion from Dixie" was the title of a circular issued on the migration by the Board of Home
Missions and Church Extension of the Methodist Episcopal Church. In this circular two questions
were asked with reference to the migrants. "What are you going to do for them?" and "How may
we best serve this most pressing need of the present time?" The circular further said:

    The problem as seen from the viewpoint of the Methodist
    Episcopal Church is twofold. First, somehow to conserve the
    work we have already done in the South where the migration is
    leaving. Second, to provide religious opportunities for those
    people who have come from our own churches of the South as
    well as those unreached by church influences, so that at the
    beginning of their new life in the North they may all have
    the influence of the Church of Jesus Christ to shape and mold
    their future.

The Home Missions Council, which is composed of representatives from the boards doing missionary
work in the United States, through its committee on negro work had a survey made of the migrants
in Detroit. The results of this survey were published under the title "Negro Newcomers in Detroit."
Detroit was selected because of the large numbers of negroes, who had been attracted to that
city, and also because it was believed that the conditions in Detroit, although changing, were
sufficiently typical of other northern industrial centers as to give a fairly accurate understanding
of this modern phase of the negro problem, which might have acute and serious aspects if not
speedily cared for by an enlightened judgment, and the quickened conscience of the Christian
church.

The African Methodist Episcopal Church through its annual conferences, its Bishops' Council
and its Missionary Department, undertook to meet the migration situation as it affected and
imposed duties on that denomination. The Bishops' Council recommended to all the departments
of the church that, to meet the needs of the church as to the expenditure of money in the home
field of the North and Northwest for the benefit of "our migrating people," that they should
do the best they could, "in assisting in the establishment of missions and church houses for
our beloved people, consistent with their obligations already provided for by law and by the
action of the Missionary Board."[150] A circular containing the following questions was sent
out to the A.M.E. churches throughout the North.

    How many persons, to your knowledge, have come from the South
    into your vicinity during the past year?

    In what sections of your city are they located?

    To what extent are they African Methodists?

    From what section of the South have they come?

    What reasons do they give for coming to the North?

    To what extent have they found employment? At what, and what
    is the average wage paid?

    Have you a Lookout Committee in your church to seek these
    people? If not, what organized effort is being put forth to
    church them?

    Has any special mission work been started among or for our
    southern brethren, in your vicinity? If so, what and where?

    What number of people from the South have united with your
    church during the past year?

    How do they affiliate with your people?

    What is the attitude of your members toward them?

    So far as you have seen, is the better plan, where the numbers
    warrant it, to establish a distinct mission for them or bring
    them into the already established churches?

Bishop R.A. Carter, of the Colored Methodist Episcopal Church, after an extended trip north
in the interest of the work of his denomination for the migrants, published in the official
organ of his church a description of the situation as he found it, and what the Colored Methodist
Episcopal Church should do to assist in meeting the needs of the situation. He said:

    I have just returned from an extended trip through the great
    Northwest, having visited St. Louis, Chicago, Gary,
    Milwaukee, Detroit, Cleveland, Pittsburgh, Clarksburg and West
    Virginia.... Heretofore the few church houses in those cities
    have been sufficient for the colored people who were there.
    Since the migration of our people in such great numbers, the
    church facilities are alarmingly inadequate. It is necessary
    to hold two services at the same time in many churches and
    then hundreds are turned away for lack of room. It is pathetic
    to have to tell people who attend one service not to return to
    the next so that a new crowd may be accommodated. Yet that
    is just what must be done in many instances up that way now.
    There must be more churches established in all the large
    cities of the North and East and Northwest for our people or
    serious results will obtain in the future.

He considered the opportunity and duty of the C.M.E. Church as great and urgent. He recommended
the purchase of vacant white churches offered for sale and the transfer of some of the best
pastors. He urged that there be launched a movement for a great centenary rally for $500,000
with which to take advantage of the great opportunity which confronted the race in the North.

Before the migration movement the strength of the negroes in labor unions was largely in the
South. In this section they were found in considerable numbers in the carpenters, bricklayers,
plasterers, longshoremen and miners unions. In the North, however, they were not generally
connected with the unions mainly for the reason that, excepting the hod carriers, teamsters,
asphalt and cement workers and a few other organizations of unskilled laborers, they were not
found in any occupation in sufficient numbers to necessitate being seriously considered by
organized labor. The necessities of the industrial situation created by the war, however, brought
thousands of negroes north and into trades and occupations in which hitherto they had not been
found at all or only in negligible numbers. A change in attitude, therefore, was necessary.
At the 1910 annual meeting of the National Council of the American Federation of Labor a resolution
was unanimously passed inviting negroes and all other races into the Labor Federation. The
officers of the Federation were instructed to take measures to see that negro workmen as well
as workmen of other races be brought into the union. In 1913 this action was reaffirmed with
the assertion that

    Many years ago the American Federation of Labor declared for
    the thorough organization of all working people without regard
    to sex, religion, race, politics or nationality; that many
    organizations affiliated with the American Federation of Labor
    have within their membership negro workmen with all other
    workers of their trade, and the American Federation of Labor
    has made and is making every effort within its power for the
    organization of these workmen.[151]

At its 1916 annual convention held in November at Baltimore, the American Federation of Labor
considered the question of negro migration. The question was brought formally before the convention
by the Ohio State Federation of Labor and the Cleveland Federation of Labor reciting that:
"The investigation of such emigration and importation of negroes in the State of Ohio had demonstrated
to the satisfaction of labor leaders in that State that they were being brought north for the
purpose of filling the places of union men demanding better conditions, as in the case of freight
handlers." Believing that "the conditions that prevailed in Ohio might apply in all northern
States," the president and Executive Council of the Federation were instructed to begin a movement
looking towards the organization of negroes in the southern States."[152]

At the 1917 convention of the American Federation of Labor held at Buffalo, New York, the question
of negro labor was again considered. It was observed that the colored laborers and helpers
throughout the southeastern district were not as familiar with the labor movement as they should
be, especially upon the different railroads of the southeastern territory; and that there were
fifteen different railroads in the district for which there were only four colored locals.
Feeling that a negro organizer, because of his racial and social relations among his people,
could accomplish much in organizing the forces into unions, the National Convention appointed
a negro railroad man as organizer for the territory as above mentioned. Another set of resolutions,
relating to the general condition of negroes in the United States, making suggestions to secure
the cooperation of the American people and the national government in an endeavor to have the
nations participating in the coming world peace conference agree upon a plan to turn over the
African continent or parts thereof to the African race and those descendants of said race who
live in America and desire to return to Africa, and thus enable the black race to work out
its own destiny on an equality with other peoples of the earth, was referred to a committee.
The report was, "Your committee can not be responsible for and rejects the statements contained
in the resolution, but, inasmuch as portions of it refer to the organization of negro workers,
the committee recommends that that portion be referred to the Executive Council."[153]

At the annual meeting of the National League on Urban Conditions among Negroes, held in New
York City, January 29-31, 1918, resolutions relating to labor unions and the negroes were adopted
and a committee was appointed to place the resolutions before the executive committee of the
American Federation of Labor. The resolutions adopted were as follows:

    For the first time in the history of America, the negro
    working man is in large numbers getting a chance to offer his
    service at a fair wage for various kinds of work for which he
    is fitted. This opportunity, however, has come as a result of
    conditions over which neither he, nor those offering him the
    chance, have control.

    In the city of New York, on the 31st day of January, 1918,
    we in conference assembled under the auspices of the National
    League on Urban Conditions among Negroes, while in no way
    seeking to condone the existence of the worldwide war which
    has been forced upon our beloved country, wish to express our
    gratitude for the industrial changes wrought and to record
    our prayer that the benefits thus far derived by the negro
    may continue and so enlarge as to embrace full and fair
    opportunity in all the walks of life.

    I. We wish especially to address ourselves to the American
    Federation of Labor which at its recent convention in Buffalo,
    New York, voiced sound democratic principles in its attitude
    toward negro labor.

    We would ask the American Federation of Labor, in organizing
    negroes in the various trades, to include: (1) skilled as
    well as unskilled workmen, (2) northern as well as southern
    workmen, (3) government as well as civilian employes, (4)
    women as well as men workers.

    We would have negro labor handled by the American Federation
    of Labor in the same manner as white labor; (1) when workmen
    are returning to work after a successful strike; (2) when
    shops are declared "open" or "closed"; (3) when union workers
    apply for jobs.

    We would have these assurances pledged not with word only,
    but by deeds--pledged by an increasing number of examples of
    groups of negro workmen given a "square deal."

    With these accomplished, we pledge ourselves to urge negro
    working men to seek the advantages of sympathetic cooperation
    and understanding between men who work.

    II. We would also address ourselves to the Labor Bureau of the
    United States Government.

    In our national effort to speed up production of articles
    essential to the conduct of the war as well as the production
    of other goods, let us not lose sight of our duty to our
    country in quantity production by an unreasonable prejudice
    in many quarters against the use of negro labor. Negro workmen
    are loyal and patriotic, cheerful and versatile. In some
    sections there is an oversupply of such labor; in other
    sections a shortage.

    We would urge the appointment of one or two competent negroes
    in the Department of Labor to serve as assistants in each of
    the bureaus in distributing negro labor to meet war and peace
    needs.

    III. We would urge negro workmen to remain cheerful and
    hopeful in work; to be persevering in their efforts to improve
    in regularity, punctuality and efficiency, and to be quick to
    grasp all opportunities for training both themselves and their
    children. Success lies in these directions.

    IV. We would impress upon employers the fact that the
    efficiency of their employes during work hours depends very
    largely on the use made of the non-working hours. Most of
    the complaints against negro labor can be removed if proper
    housing, decent amusement, fair wages and proper treatment are
    provided.[154]

These resolutions were presented to the executive officers of the American Federation of Labor
on February 12, 1918, by a committee composed of E.K. Jones, Director of National League on
Urban Conditions among Negroes, Robert R. Moton, Principal of Tuskegee Institute, Archibald
H. Grimke, Thomas Jesse Jones, specialist in the United States Bureau of Education, J.R. Shillady,
Secretary of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, Fred R. Moore,
editor of the New York Age, George W. Harris, editor of the New York News, and Emmett J. Scott,
special assistant to the Secretary of War. The committee requested of the Executive Council
that a committee be appointed by the American Federation of Labor to confer with a committee
representing the interests of the negroes. This request was granted.

At the American Federation of Labor annual convention held at St. Paul, Minnesota, in June,
1918, the problem of negro workers and organized labor again received considerable attention.
B.S. Lancaster, a negro delegate to the convention from Mobile, Alabama, offered a resolution
asking for the appointment of a negro to organize negroes not now affiliated with unions in
the shipbuilding trades. Another resolution was to the effect that negro porters, cooks, waiters
and waitresses, section hands and all negro railway employes to be organized. The press reports
of the convention under date of June 12, said:

    Dr. R.R. Moton, Principal of the Tuskegee Institute, and J.R.
    Shillady, of the National Association for the Advancement
    of Colored People, are authors of a communication asking for
    closer cooperation between white and colored workers. They ask
    that Mr. Gompers prepare a statement on his stand toward
    negro labor, and charge that some unions discriminate against
    colored workers. They urge consideration of revision of
    union charters to permit negroes to become members. The
    communication was referred.[155]

These efforts were not without some result, for sentiment began to change. In its August, 1918,
issue the editor of the Labor News of Detroit, Michigan, said:

    The time has arrived for the American labor movement to
    face squarely the fact that the negro is a big factor in our
    industrial life, and that he must be taken into account in the
    adjustment of our economic differences. Never again can the
    negro be ignored. Time and time again the selfish masters of
    industry have used him to batter your organizations to pieces,
    and, instead of trying to win him over, you have savagely
    fought him, because they used him as a strikebreaker. But
    the negro must be made to see the value of organization to
    himself, and he must be incorporated into and made a part of
    the great labor movement. It is a stupid policy to try to keep
    him out. Let us work to shift him from his present unhappy
    position, where he is despised by the big business element,
    notwithstanding his utility as a strikebreaker, and hated by
    unionists for his loyalty to the open shop element. Unionism
    must welcome the negro to its ranks.

[Footnote 148: Southwestern Christian Advocate, New Orleans, La.]

[Footnote 149: Ibid.]

[Footnote 150: Report of Bishop's Council, A.M.E. Church, 1917.]

[Footnote 151: Report of Proceedings, American Federation of Labor, annual session, 1913.]

[Footnote 152: Report of Proceedings, American Federation of Labor, annual session, 1916.]

[Footnote 153: Report of Proceedings, American Federation of Labor, annual session, 1917.]

[Footnote 154: Minutes of Session, National League on Urban Conditions, January 29-31, 1918.]

[Footnote 155: Report of M.N. Work on migration to the North.]

CHAPTER XIV

PUBLIC OPINION REGARDING THE MIGRATION

It was to be expected that a movement which so profoundly affected the social and economic
life of the South would be widely discussed, and that the resulting discussions, wherein were
set forth at length the views of whites and negroes, would throw much light upon the conditions
existing prior to the movement. How the South viewed this taking away of a large part of her
labor supply was stated in letters to the newspapers and in newspaper editorials. There were
two views as to the effect of the migration on the South. One view held that the movement would
benefit the South in that the negro population would be more evenly distributed over the entire
country and as a result the race problem would be more truly national. The other view was that
negro labor was a necessity for the South, and the drawing of a considerable part of this labor
north was seriously detrimental to the South's economic interests.

The following are examples of expressions by those holding the view that the migration would
benefit the South:

The New Orleans Times Picayune said:

    Despite the attitude of certain extreme papers of the North
    that there was a broad conspiracy existing here to prevent
    the negroes from leaving, the records show that many southern
    papers and people welcomed the movement, believing that it
    would have a beneficial effect on the South by removing the
    negro majorities in many districts and in at least two
    States, South Carolina and Mississippi. The problems of negro
    majorities is rapidly working itself out. Louisiana, a State
    in which the negro was more numerous a few decades ago, is
    white today by several hundred thousand, and will have a
    million more whites by the next census. South Carolina and
    Mississippi expect to report white majorities in the next
    ten years as they are drifting rapidly in that direction, and
    negro emigration will help this condition along.

    During the first months of this negro movement northward, a
    number of South Carolina papers, led by the Columbia State,
    instead of expressing apprehension over these departures,
    showed satisfaction that the State was getting rid of its
    excess of negroes. At the Southern Commercial Congress in
    a session at Norfolk, Judge Francis D. Winston, of North
    Carolina, expressed this same view of the situation in a
    resolution which declares that: "The complete industrial,
    intellectual and social development of the southern States
    can be secured only when the negro becomes a part of the
    citizenship of our sister States, and that we will encourage
    all movements tending to an equitable distribution of our
    negro population among the other States of the Union.

    It is not likely that there will be any serious objection to
    a declaration of this kind in favor of the more equitable
    distribution of the negroes throughout the country as the
    question involved can then be better handled. No encouragement
    to the negroes to leave the South will be held out, but there
    will be no effort made to keep the negroes from going beyond
    explaining the situation to them.[156]

A comment of the Nashville Banner was:

    From a logical point of view that looks beyond immediate
    emergencies, the southern whites should encourage negro
    emigration to the North, not for the cynical motives that
    impelled the late Hon. Jeff Davis while Governor of Arkansas
    to pardon negro convicts on condition that they go to
    Massachusetts to live, but to relieve the South of the entire
    burden and all the brunt of the race problem, and make room
    for and to create greater inducements for white immigration
    that the South very much needs. Some thousands of negroes
    going north every year and a corresponding number of whites
    coming south would affect a distribution of the races that
    would be in many ways beneficial and that at the very least
    would take away from the race problem all sectional aspects,
    which is and has always been the chief cause of sectional ill
    feeling. And it would in the end give the South a homogeneous
    citizenship.

The Vicksburg Herald[157] was of the opinion that:

    Adjustments and compensation will, we have faith, come. The
    northern drift as it continues, and carries thousands with it,
    will lower negro congestion in certain sections of the South.
    Such a change, restrained and graduated against violent
    progression, promises ultimate benefit. In the South, the
    effect of losing thousands of negroes from lands in southern
    Mississippi is already ... producing a wholesome farm
    diversification and economic stimulation. Then, too, a more
    equitable distribution of the sons of Ham will teach the
    Caucasians of the northern States that wherever there is a
    negro infusion, there will be a race problem--a white man's
    burden--which they are destined to share.

Among those holding the view that the South needed the negro was the Memphis Commercial Appeal.[158]
Concerning this an editorial in this paper said that not only does the South need the negro,
but that he should be encouraged to stay.

    The enormous demand for labor and the changing conditions
    brought about by the boll weevil in certain parts of the South
    have caused an exodus of negroes which may be serious. Great
    colonies of negroes have gone north to work in factories, in
    packing houses and on the railroads.

    Some of our friends think that these negroes are being taken
    north for the purpose of voting them in November. Such is
    not the case. The restriction of immigration because of the
    European war and the tremendous manufacturing and industrial
    activity in the North have resulted in a scarcity of labor.
    The negro is a good track hand. He is also a good man around
    packing houses, and in certain elementary trades he is useful.

