After a voyage of six days the town was sighted, but strong winds had rendered the entrances
dangerous, and the heavy gale which came with night drove the Americans so far to the eastward
before it abated that they found themselves fairly embayed in the Gulf of Sidra. On the afternoon
of the 16th Tripoli was once more made out; and as the wind was light, the weather pleasant,
and the sea smooth, Decatur determined to attack that night. By arrangement the Siren kept
almost out of sight during the day, and her appearance was so changed as to lull all suspicion
of her true character. The lightness of the wind allowed the ketch to maintain the appearance
of an anxious desire to reach the harbour before night, without bringing her too near to require
any other change than the use of drags (in this case buckets towed astern) which could not
be seen from the city. The crew was kept below, excepting six or eight persons at a time, so
that inquiry might not be awakened by unusual numbers; and such men remained on deck as were
dressed like Maltese. When the Philadelphia was sighted, no doubt was left of the hazardous
nature of the attack, for she lay a mile within the entrance, riding to the wind and abreast
of the town. Her foremast, which was cut away while on the reef, had not yet been replaced,
her main and mizzen masts were housed, and her lower yards were on the gunwales. The lower
standing rigging, however, was set up, and her battery was loaded and shotted. She lay within
short range of the guns on the castle, on the mole-head, and in the New Fort; and close aboard
rode three Tripolitan cruisers and twenty gun-boats and galleys. To meet and overcome this
force Decatur had a few small guns and seventy men, but these were hearts of oak, tried in
many a desperate undertaking, and burning now to redeem their country's honour.

As the Intrepid drew in with the land, they saw that the boiling surf of the western passage
would force them to select the northern entrance, which twisted and turned between the rocks
and the shoals. It was now nearly ten o'clock, and as the ketch drifted in before the light
easterly breeze she seemed a modest trader bent upon barter, and laden with anything but the
hopes of a nation.

The night was beautiful; a young moon sailed in the sky; the lights from wall and tower and
town, and from the ships lazily rocking at the anchorages, filled the water with a thousand
points of fire. The gentle breeze wafted the little craft past reefs and rocks into the harbour
noiselessly, save for the creaking of the yards, the complainings of the block, the wimple
of wavelets at the bow, and the gurgle of eddies at the pintles and under the plashing counter.
On deck forward only a few figures were silhouetted against the background of white wall and
grayish sky; and aft Decatur and the pilot stood conning the ship as it stole slowly for the
frigate's bow.

Owing to the ketch's native rig, and to the glib Tripolitanese of the Sicilian pilot, no suspicion
was excited in the Philadelphia's watch by the answer to their hail that she had lost her anchors
in a gale and would like to run a line to the war-ship and to ride by it through the night.
So completely were the Tripolitans deceived that they lowered a boat and sent it with a hawser,
while at the same time some of the Intrepid's crew leisurely ran a fast to the frigate's fore-chains.
As these returned they met the enemy's boat, took its rope, and passed it into their own vessel.
Slowly, but firmly, it was hauled upon by the men on board, lying on their backs, and slowly
and surely the Intrepid was warped alongside. But at the critical moment the ruse was discovered,
and up from the enemies' decks went the wolf-like howl of "Americanos! Americanos!"

The cry roused the soldiers in the forts and batteries, and the chorus these awakened startled
the Pasha from his sleep, and thrilled with joy the captive Americans behind their prison walls.

In another moment the Intrepid had swung broadside on, and quickly-passed lashings held the
two ships locked in a deadly embrace. Then Decatur's cry of "board" rang out, and with a quick
rush, and the discharge of only a single gun, the decks were gained.

The surprise was as perfect as the assault was rapid, and the Tripolitan crew, panic stricken,
huddled like rats at bay awaiting the final dash. Decatur had early gathered his men aft, stood
a moment for them to gain a sight of the enemy, and then, with the watchword "Philadelphia"
rushed upon the rovers. No defence was made, for, swarming to leeward, they tumbled, in mad
affright, overboard; over the bows, through gun-ports, by aid of trailing halliards and stranded
rigging, out of the channels, pell-mell by every loop-hole they went--and then, such as could,
swam like water-rats for the friendly shelter of the neighbouring war-galleys.

One by one the decks and holds were cleared, and in ten minutes Decatur had possession of the
ship, without a man killed, and only one slightly wounded. In the positions selected so carefully
beforehand, the appointed divisions assembled and piled up and fired the combustibles. Each
party acted by itself, and as it was ready; and so rapid were all in their movements, that
those assigned to the after-holds had scarcely reached the cockpit and stern store-rooms before
the fires were lighted over their heads. Indeed, when the officer entrusted with this duty
had completed his task, he found the after-hatches so filled with smoke from the fire in the
ward-room and steerage, that he was obliged to escape to the deck by the forward ladders.

