One day they even pushed the kitten through; but the hole was hardly large enough for her,
and she mewed and scratched and was very much frightened. After that the little boy said he
would ask his father if the hole might not be made larger, and then Piccola could come in and
play with them. The father had found out that Piccola's mother was a good woman, and that the
little girl herself was sweet and kind, so that he was very glad to have some of the stones
broken away and an opening made for Piccola to come in.

How excited she was, and how glad the children were when she first stepped into the garden!
She wore her best dress, a long, bright-colored woolen skirt and a white waist. Round her neck
was a string of beads, and on her feet were little wooden shoes. It would seem very strange
to us--would it not?--to wear wooden shoes; but Piccola and her mother had never worn anything
else, and never had any money to buy stockings. Piccola almost always ran about barefooted,
like the kittens and the chickens and the little ducks. What a good time they had that day,
and how glad Piccola's mother was that her little girl could have such a pleasant, safe place
to play in, while she was away at work!

By and by December came, and the little Americans began to talk about Christmas. One day, when
Piccola's curly head and bright eyes came peeping through the hole in the wall, and they ran
to her and helped her in; and as they did so, they all asked her at once what she thought she
would have for a Christmas present. "A Christmas present!" said Piccola. "Why, what is that?"

All the children looked surprised at this, and Rose said, rather gravely, "Dear Piccola, don't
you know what Christmas is?"

Oh, yes, Piccola knew it was the happy day when the baby Christ was born, and she had been
to church on that day and heard the beautiful singing, and had seen the picture of the Babe
lying in the manger, with cattle and sheep sleeping round about. Oh, yes, she knew all that
very well, but what was a Christmas present?

Then the children began to laugh and to answer her all together. There was such a clatter of
tongues that she could hear only a few of the words now and then, such as "chimney," "Santa
Claus," "stockings," "reindeer," "Christmas Eve," "candies and toys." Piccola put her hands
over her ears and said, "Oh, I can't understand one word. You tell me, Rose." Then Rose told
her all about jolly Santa Claus, with his red cheeks and white beard and fur coat, and about
his reindeer and sleigh full of toys. "Every Christmas Eve," said Rose, "he comes down the
chimney, and fills the stockings of all the good children; so, Piccola, you hang up your stocking,
and who knows what a beautiful Christmas present you will find when morning comes!" Of course
Piccola thought this was a delightful plan, and was very pleased to hear about it. Then all
the children told her of every Christmas Eve they could remember, and of the presents they
had had; so that she went home thinking of nothing but dolls and hoops and balls and ribbons
and marbles and wagons and kites.

She told her mother about Santa Claus, and her mother seemed to think that perhaps he did not
know there was any little girl in that house, and very likely he would not come at all. But
Piccola felt very sure Santa Claus would remember her, for her little friends had promised
to send a letter up the chimney to remind him.

Christmas Eve came at last. Piccola's mother hurried home from her work; they had their little
supper of soup and bread, and soon it was bedtime,--time to get ready for Santa Claus. But
oh! Piccola remembered then for the first time that the children had told her she must hang
up her stocking, and she hadn't any, and neither had her mother.

How sad, how sad it was! Now Santa Claus would come, and perhaps be angry because he couldn't
find any place to put the present.

The poor little girl stood by the fireplace, and the big tears began to run down her cheeks.
Just then her mother called to her, "Hurry, Piccola; come to bed." What should she do? But
she stopped crying, and tried to think; and in a moment she remembered her wooden shoes, and
ran off to get one of them. She put it close to the chimney, and said to herself, "Surely Santa
Claus will know what it's there for. He will know I haven't any stockings, so I gave him the
shoe instead."

Then she went off happily to her bed, and was asleep almost as soon as she had nestled close
to her mother's side.

The sun had only just begun to shine, next morning, when Piccola awoke. With one jump she was
out on the floor and running toward the chimney. The wooden shoe was lying where she had left
it, but you could never, never guess what was in it.

Piccola had not meant to wake her mother, but this surprise was more than any little girl could
bear and yet be quiet; so she danced to the bed with the shoe in her hand, calling, "Mother,
mother! look, look! see the present Santa Claus brought me!"

Her mother raised her head and looked into the shoe. "Why, Piccola," she said, "a little chimney
swallow nestling in your shoe? What a good Santa Claus to bring you a bird!"

"Good Santa Claus, dear Santa Claus!" cried Piccola; and she kissed her mother and kissed the
bird and kissed the shoe, and even threw kisses up the chimney, she was so happy.

When the birdling was taken out of the shoe, they found that he did not try to fly, only to
hop about the room; and as they looked closer, they could see that one of his wings was hurt
a little. But the mother bound it up carefully, so that it did not seem to pain him, and he
was so gentle that he took a drink of water from a cup, and even ate crumbs and seeds out of
Piccola's hands. She was a proud little girl when she took her Christmas present to show the
children in the garden. They had had a great many gifts,--dolls that could say "mamma," bright
picture books, trains of cars, toy pianos; but not one of their playthings was alive, like
Piccola's birdling. They were as pleased as she, and Rose hunted about the house until she
found a large wicker cage that belonged to a blackbird she once had. She gave the cage to Piccola,
and the swallow seemed to make himself quite at home in it at once, and sat on the perch winking
his bright eyes at the children. Rose had saved a bag of candies for Piccola, and when she
went home at last, with the cage and her dear swallow safely inside it, I am sure there was
not a happier little girl in the whole country of Italy.

[*] From "The Story Hour," by Wiggins and Smith. Published by consent of the authors and also
the publishers--Houghton, Mifflin and Company.

THE SHEPHERD'S STORY[*]

Washington Gladden

"Bring hither that sheepskin, Joseph, and lay it down on this bank of dry earth, under this
shelving rock. The wind blows chilly from the west, but the rock will shelter us. The sky is
fair and the moon is rising, and we can sit here and watch the flocks on the hillside below.
Your young blood and your father's coat of skins will keep you warm for one watch, I am sure.
At midnight, my son, your father, Reuben, and his brother James will take our places; for the
first watch the old man and the boy will tend the sheep."

"Yes, grandfather; you shall sit in that snug corner of the rock, where you can lean back and
take your comfort. I will lie here at your feet. Now and then I will run to see whether the
sheep are wandering, and that will warm me, if I grow cold."

"Have you never been out on the hills at night with your father?"

"Never, grandfather. I have often begged him to let me come; but he kept saying that I must
wait until I was twelve years old. On the last full moon was my birthday and today, when he
returned from Bethlehem to the flocks, he brought me with him."

"So this is the lad's first night with the sheep in the fields, and the old man's last night,
I fear," said the aged shepherd, sadly. "It is not often in these days that I venture out to
keep the watches of the flock; but this one night of the year I have spent upon these hills
these many years, and I always shall as long as I have strength to walk so far."

"Was your father, too, a shepherd?"

"Yes, and all his fathers before him for many generations. On these hills my ancestors have
kept their sheep for I know not how long."

Joseph was still for a moment. His eyes wandered away over the silent hills, lit by the rising
moon. His face was troubled. At length, he said gently:

"Grandfather, I heard Rabbi Eliezer saying, the other day, in the synagogue, that a shepherd's
life is not a noble life. He was reading from one of the old doctors, who said: 'Let no one
make his son a camel-driver, a barber, a sailor, a shepherd, or a shopkeeper. They are dishonest
callings.' I was angry when he read it; but I held my peace."

"You did well, my son, to hold your peace. I myself have often heard such words, of late, from
the doctors in the synagogues; but it is not wise to answer them. Where they got their notions,
I know not. From the Egyptians, I think, more than from the prophets. All Egyptians hate shepherds,
and can never speak of them without sneering. Perhaps they have not yet forgotten how the shepherds
conquered and ruled them for generations. Nevertheless, there is some reason why the calling
of the shepherds should be despised. Many of them are rude and fierce men. Living out of doors
so constantly makes their manners rough and their temper harsh. They are often quarrelsome.
Such bloody fights as I used to see among them, at the wells in the south country, where they
brought their flocks to water and each one wanted the first chance at the well, I hope you
will never look upon."

"But all shepherds are not so," protested Joseph.

"No, indeed. Brave men they must be; fleet of foot and strong of limb and stout of heart; but
brave men are not always quarrelsome. Many a shepherd whom I have known had a heart as pure
and gentle as a child's. And the godliest men that I have known have been among them. If the
shepherd has but learned to think, to commune with his own soul, he has time for thought and
time for prayer. More than one with whom I have watched upon these hills knew all the Psalms
of David by heart and many of the books of the prophets. The doctors in the synagogues teach
only the law; the shepherds love best the Psalms and the prophets. They do not forget that
King David was himself a shepherd's lad. It was upon these very hills that he kept his father's
sheep. It was in that ravine over yonder, on that hillside, that he, a mere stripling, caught
by the beard and killed the lion and the bear that attacked the sheep. It was on that slope,
just a little to the south, that the messenger found him with his flocks when he was called
home to be anointed by Samuel the prophet. When the doctors talk so contemptuously about the
shepherds, I wonder if they do not remember that the great king wrote: 'The Lord is my Shepherd.'
How can our calling be so mean as they say, when David, who was called from the sheepfolds,
praises the Eternal One himself as his Shepherd? But hark! what noise is that I hear? There
is some trouble among the sheep."

"Let me run and see," answers the boy, "and I will come and bring you word."

So saying, Joseph cast off his father's shaggy coat, seized the sling in his left hand and
the crook in his right and ran swiftly out to the brow of the hill. He was a strong lad, large
of frame and a swift runner, and the sling in his hand was a sure weapon. The old man looked
after him with pride, as he bounded over the rocks, and said to himself:

"Some evil beast, I doubt not. But the lad's heart is brave and he must learn to face dangers.
I will wait a moment."

Presently the sheep came huddling round the hill in terror. The quick, faint bleat of the ewes
showed that they had seen a foe. The old man arose and hurried in the direction in which the
lad had disappeared. Joseph was just returning, breathless, from the ravine below.

"It was a wolf, grandfather. The sheep on this side of the ledge had seen him and were flying.
Just as I reached the brow of the hill, he was creeping round the end of the ledge below, ready
to spring upon a ewe that was feeding near. The first thing he knew a stone from my sling hit
him, and he went howling down the hill. I think I broke his leg, for he went on three legs
and I gained on him as I ran after him; but he crawled into a narrow place among the rocks
in the gorge down yonder, and I could not follow him."

"Well done, my lad," said the ancient Stephanus proudly. "You will make a good shepherd. These
single wolves are cowards. It is always safe to face them. When they come in packs, it is quite
another thing. But this fellow will keep at a safe distance for the rest of the night, you
may depend. Let us go back to our shelter and call the sheep together."

It was several minutes before Stephanus and Joseph could collect the sheep that the wolf had
scattered; but at length, with the aid of the dog, who was not a very brave specimen, and who
had taken to his heels when he saw the wolf coming, they succeeded in driving them into a safe
neighborhood, and then, with their blood quickened by the adventure, they sat down again beneath
the overhanging rock.

"You said, grandfather, that you always spent this night with the flocks in the fields. Why
this night?" asked the boy.

"Do you not know, my boy, that this is the night of the year on which the Lord Christ was born?"

"Oh! yes," answered the lad. "My father told me as we were walking hither today, but I had
forgotten it. And you were with the sheep that night?"

"Aye."

"Where was it?"

"Here, on this very spot."

The boy's eyes began to grow and fill with wonder and there was a slight tremor in his voice
as he hurriedly plied the aged man with his eager questions. Stephanus drew his shepherd's
cloak around him, and leaned forward a little, and looked out upon the silent moonlit hills,
and then up into the sky.

"How long ago was that, grandfather?"

"Just fifty years ago this night."

"And how old were you then?"

"Fourteen, and a stout boy for my age. I had been for two years in the fields with my father,
and had tasted to the full the hardships and dangers of the shepherd's life."

"Who were with you on that night?"

"My father, and his brother, James, and Hosea, the son of John, a neighbor and kinsman of ours.
On that year, as on this year and often, there came in the midwinter a dry and warm season
between the early and the latter rain. We had driven forth our flocks from Bethlehem and were
dwelling by night in the shelter of the tower on the hillside yonder, watching and sleeping
two and two. My father and I were wont to keep the early watches. At midnight we would call
James and Hosea, and they would watch till the morning. But that night, when the sun went down
and the stars came out, we were sitting here, upon this hillside, talking of the troubles of
Israel and of the promises of deliverance spoken by the prophets; and James and Hosea were
asking my father questions, and he was answering them, for he was older than they, and all
the people of Bethlehem reverenced him as a wise and devout man. Some even said that, if the
people of Israel had not ceased to look for prophets, they would have counted him a prophet.
I remember well that, when he rose in the synagogue, it seemed as if some wisdom from on high
touched his lips, and he would speak with such hope and courage of the light that should yet
shine in our darkness and of the help that should yet arise to Judah, that the people's faces
would glow with joyful expectation."

Stephanus paused a moment and started forward, as his eye was turned toward his own shadow
upon the rock, cast by the rising moon. Did the old man's figure that he saw remind him of
the patriarch of whom he was talking?

Soon he went on.

"Ah! but they should have heard my father talking here by night, under the stars. It was here
upon these hills where the royal shepherd used to sing, that his tongue was loosed and he spoke
wonderful words. So it was that night, fifty years ago. I remember it as if it were yesterday.
My father sat in this very niche, where I am sitting now; James and Hosea were on either side
of him. I was lying at their feet, as you now lie at mine. Their faces kindled and the tremor
of deep feeling was in their voices as they talked together; and the other two had lingered
here three or four hours after the sun had set. It was not a moonlit night like this, but all
the stars were out and all the winds were still.

"Suddenly I saw my father rise to his feet. Then the other men sprang up, with astonishment
and wonder upon their faces. It had grown light all at once, lighter than the brightest moon;
and as I turned my face in the direction in which the others were looking, I saw, standing
there upon that level place, a figure majestic and beautiful beyond all the power of words
to tell."

"Were you not afraid, grandfather?"

"Indeed, I was, my boy. My heart stopped beating. The others were standing, but I had no power
to rise. I lay there motionless upon the earth. My eyes were fixed upon that wonderful face;
upon those clear, shining eyes; upon that brow that seemed to beam with the purity of the soul
within. It was not a smile with which that face was lighted. It was something too noble and
exalted to call by that name. It was a look that told of power and peace, of joy and triumph."

"Did you know that it was an angel?"

"I knew not anything. I only knew that what I saw was glorious, too glorious for mortal eyes
to look upon. Yet, while I gazed, and in far less time than I have now taken to tell you of
what I saw, the terribleness of the look began to disappear, the sweetness and grace of the
soul shone forth, and I had almost ceased to tremble before the angel opened his mouth. And
when he spoke, his voice, clearer than any trumpet and sweeter than any lute, charmed away
all my fears." It makes my heart beat now to remember its sweetness. It seemed to carry these
words into our innermost hearts; to print them on our memory, so that we never could forget
one syllable of what he said. And then, before we had time to make reply, he turned aside a
little and lifted his face toward heaven, and, in a tone far louder than that in which he had
spoken to us, but yet so sweet that it did not startle us at all, came forth from his lips
the first strain of the great song:

    "'Glory to God in the highest!'

