RENAISSANCE IN ITALY

THE FINE ARTS

BY

JOHN ADDINGTON SYMONDS

AUTHOR OF

"AN INTRODUCTION TO THE STUDY OF DANTE", "STUDIES OF THE GREEK POETS"

AND "SKETCHES IN ITALY AND GREECE"

       *       *       *       *       *

    Dii Romae indigetes, Trojae tuque auctor, Apollo,
    Unde genus nostrum coeli se tollit ad astra,
    Hanc saltem auferri laudem prohibete Latinis:
    Artibus emineat semper, studiisque Minervae,
    Italia, et gentes doceat pulcherrima Roma;
    Quandoquidem armorum penitus fortuna recessit,
    Tanta Italos inter crevit discordia reges;
    Ipsi nos inter saevos distringimus enses,
    Nec patriam pudet externis aperire tyrannis

    VIDA, Poetica, lib. ii.

       *       *       *       *       *

LONDON

SMITH, ELDER & CO

1899

PREFACE[1]

This third volume of my book on the "Renaissance in Italy" does not pretend to retrace the
history of the Italian arts, but rather to define their relation to the main movement of Renaissance
culture. Keeping this, the chief object of my whole work, steadily in view, I have tried to
explain the dependence of the arts on mediaeval Christianity at their commencement, their gradual
emancipation from ecclesiastical control, and their final attainment of freedom at the moment
when the classical revival culminated.

Not to notice the mediaeval period in this evolution would be impossible; since the revival
of Sculpture and Painting at the end of the thirteenth century was among the earliest signs
of that new intellectual birth to which we give the title of Renaissance. I have, therefore,
had to deal at some length with stages in the development of Architecture, Sculpture, and Painting,
which form a prelude to the proper age of my own history.

In studying the architectural branch of the subject, I have had recourse to Fergusson's "Illustrated
Handbook of Architecture," to Burckhardt's "Cicerone," to Grüner's "Terra-Cotta Buildings of
North Italy," to Milizia's "Memorie degli Architetti," and to many illustrated works on single
buildings in Rome, Tuscany, Lombardy, and Venice. For the history of Sculpture I have used
Burckhardt's "Cicerone," and the two important works of Charles C. Perkins, entitled "Tuscan
Sculptors," and "Italian Sculptors." Such books as "Le Tre Porte del Battistero di Firenze,"
Grüner's "Cathedral of Orvieto," and Lasinio's "Tabernacolo della Madonna d'Orsammichele" have
been helpful by their illustrations. For the history of Painting I have made use principally
of Vasari's "Vite de' più eccellenti Pittori," &c., in Le Monnier's edition of Crowe and Cavalcaselle's
"History of Painting," of Burckhardt's "Cicerone," of Rosini's illustrated "Storia della Pittura
Italiana," of Rio's "L'Art Chrétien," and of Henri Beyle's "Histoire de la Peinture en Italie."
I should, however, far exceed the limits of a preface were I to make a list of all the books
I have consulted with profit on the history of the arts in Italy.

In this part of my work I feel that I owe less to reading than to observation. I am not aware
of having mentioned any important building, statue, or picture which I have not had the opportunity
of studying. What I have written in this volume about the monuments of Italian art has always
been first noted face to face with the originals, and afterwards corrected, modified, or confirmed
in the course of subsequent journeys to Italy. I know that this method of composition, if it
has the merit of freshness, entails some inequality of style and disproportion in the distribution
of materials. In the final preparation of my work for press I have therefore endeavoured, as
far as possible, to compensate this disadvantage by adhering to the main motive of my subject--the
illustration of the Renaissance spirit as this was manifested in the Arts.

I must add, in conclusion, that Chapters VII. and IX. and Appendix II. are in part reprinted
from the "Westminster," the "Cornhill," and the "Contemporary."

CLIFTON: March 1877.

CONTENTS

CHAPTER I

THE PROBLEM FOR THE FINE ARTS

Art in Italy and Greece--The Leading Phase of Culture--Æsthetic Type of Literature--Painting
the Supreme Italian Art--Its Task in the Renaissance--Christian and Classical Traditions--Sculpture
for the Ancients--Painting for the Romance Nations--Mediaeval Faith and Superstition--The Promise
of Painting--How far can the Figurative Arts express Christian Ideas?--Greek and Christian
Religion--Plastic Art incapable of solving the Problem--A more Emotional Art needed--Place
of Sculpture in the Renaissance--Painting and Christian Story--Humanization of Ecclesiastical
Ideas by Art--Hostility of the Spirit of True Piety to Art--Compromises effected by the Church--Fra
Bartolommeo's S. Sebastian--Irreconcilability of Art and Theology, Art and Philosophy--Recapitulation--Art
in the end Paganises--Music--The Future of Painting after the Renaissance.

CHAPTER II

ARCHITECTURE

Architecture of Mediaeval Italy--Milan, Genoa, Venice--The Despots as Builders--Diversity of
Styles--Local Influences--Lombard, Tuscan, Romanesque, Gothic--Italian want of feeling for
Gothic--Cathedrals of Siena and Orvieto--Secular Buildings of the Middle Ages--Florence and
Venice--Private Palaces--Public Halls--Palazzo della Signoria at Florence--Arnolfo di Cambio--S.
Maria del Fiore--Brunelleschi's Dome--Classical Revival in Architecture--Roman Ruins--Three
Periods in Renaissance Architecture--Their Characteristics--Brunelleschi --Alberti--Palace-building--Michellozzo--Decorative
Work of the Revival--Bramante--Vitoni's Church of the Umiltà at Pistoja--Palazzo del Te--Villa
Farnesina--Sansovino at Venice--Michael Angelo--The Building of S. Peter's--Palladio--The Palazzo
della Ragione at Vicenza--Lombard Architects--Theorists and Students of Vitruvius--Vignola
and Scamozzi--European Influence of the Palladian Style--Comparison of Scholars and Architects
in relation to the Revival of Learning.

CHAPTER III

SCULPTURE

Niccola Pisano--Obscurity of the Sources for a History of Early Italian Sculpture--Vasari's
Legend of Pisano--Deposition from the Cross at Lucca--Study of Nature and the Antique--Sarcophagus
at Pisa--Pisan Pulpit--Niccola's School--Giovanni Pisano--Pulpit in S. Andrea at Pistoja--Fragments
of his work at Pisa--Tomb of Benedict XI. at Perugia--Bas-reliefs at Orvieto--Andrea Pisano--Relation
of Sculpture to Painting--Giotto--Subordination of Sculpture to Architecture in Italy--Pisano's
Influence in Venice--Balduccio of Pisa--Orcagna--The Tabernacle of Orsammichele--The Gates
of the Florentine Baptistery --Competition of Ghiberti, Brunelleschi, and Della Quercia--Comparison
of Ghiberti's and Brunelleschi's Trial-pieces--Comparison of Ghiberti and Della Quercia--The
Bas-reliefs of S. Petronio--Ghiberti's Education--His Pictorial Style in Bas-relief--His Feeling
for the Antique--Donatello--Early Visit to Rome--Christian Subjects--Realistic Treatment--S.
George and David--Judith--Equestrian Statue of Gattamelata--Influence of Donatello's Naturalism--Andrea
Verocchio--His David--Statue of Colleoni--Alessandro Leopardi--Lionardo's Statue of Francesco
Sforza--The Pollajuoli--Tombs of Sixtus IV. and Innocent VIII.--Luca della Robbia--His Treatment
of Glazed Earthenware--Agostino di Duccio--The Oratory of S. Bernardino at Perugia--Antonio
Rossellino--Matteo Civitali--Mino da Fiesole--Benedetto da Majano--Characteristics and Masterpieces
of this Group--Sepulchral Monuments--Andrea Contucci's Tombs in S. Maria del Popolo--Desiderio
da Settignano--Sculpture in S. Francesco at Rimini--Venetian Sculpture--Verona--Guido Mazzoni
of Modena--Certosa of Pavia--Colleoni Chapel at Bergamo--Sansovino at Venice--Pagan Sculpture--Michael
Angelo's Scholars--Baccio Bandinelli--Bartolommeo Ammanati--Cellini--Gian Bologna--Survey of
the History of Renaissance Sculpture.

CHAPTER IV

PAINTING

Distribution of Artistic Gifts in Italy--Florence and Venice --Classification by Schools--Stages
in the Evolution of Painting--Cimabue --The Rucellai Madonna--Giotto--His widespread Activity--The
Scope of his Art--Vitality--Composition--Colour--Naturalism--Healthiness--Frescoes at Assisi
and Padua--Legend of S. Francis--The Giotteschi--Pictures of the Last Judgment--Orcagna in
the Strozzi Chapel--Ambrogio Lorenzetti at Pisa--Dogmatic Theology--Cappella degli Spagnuoli--Traini's
"Triumph, of S. Thomas Aquinas"--Political Doctrine expressed in Fresco--Sala della Pace at
Siena--Religious Art in Siena and Perugia--The Relation of the Giottesque Painters to the Renaissance.

CHAPTER V

PAINTING

Mediaeval Motives exhausted--New Impulse toward Technical Perfection--Naturalists in Painting--Intermediate
Achievement needed for the Great Age of Art--Positive Spirit of the Fifteenth Century--Masaccio--The
Modern Manner--Paolo Uccello--Perspective--Realistic Painters--The Model--Piero della Francesca--His
Study of Form--Resurrection at Borgo San Sepolcro--Melozzo da Forli--Squarcione at Padua--Gentile
da Fabriano--Fra Angelico--Benozzo Gozzoli--His Decorative Style--Lippo Lippi--Frescoes at
Prato and Spoleto--Filippino Lippi--Sandro Botticelli--His Value for the Student of Renaissance
Fancy--His Feeling for Mythology--Piero di Cosimo--Domenico Ghirlandajo--In what sense he sums
up the Age--Prosaic Spirit--Florence hitherto supreme in Painting--Extension of Art Activity
throughout Italy--Medicean Patronage.

CHAPTER VI

PAINTING

Two Periods in the True Renaissance--Andrea Mantegna--His Statuesque Design--His Naturalism--Roman
Inspiration--Triumph of Julius Caesar--Bas-reliefs--Luca Signorelli--The Precursor of Michael
Angelo--Anatomical Studies--Sense of Beauty--The Chapel of S. Brizio at Orvieto--Its Arabesques
and Medallions--Degrees in his Ideal--Enthusiasm for Organic Life--Mode of treating Classical
Subjects--Perugino--His Pietistic Style--His Formalism--The Psychological Problem of his Life--Perugino's
Pupils--Pinturicchio--At Spello and Siena--Francia--Fra Bartolommeo--Transition to the Golden
Age--Lionardo da Vinci--The Magician of the Renaissance--Raphael--The Melodist--Correggio--The
Faun--Michael Angelo--The Prophet.

CHAPTER VII

VENETIAN PAINTING

Painting bloomed late in Venice--Conditions offered by Venice to Art--Shelley and Pietro Aretino--Political
Circumstances of Venice--Comparison with Florence--The Ducal Palace--Art regarded as an adjunct
to State Pageantry--Myth of Venezia--Heroic Deeds of Venice--Tintoretto's Paradise and Guardi's
Picture of a Ball--Early Venetian Masters of Murano--Gian Bellini--Carpaccio's Little Angels--The
Madonna of S. Zaccaria--Giorgione--Allegory, Idyll, Expression of Emotion--The Monk at the
Clavichord--Titian, Tintoret, and Veronese--Tintoretto's Attempt to dramatise Venetian Art--Veronese's
Mundane Splendour--Titian's Sophoclean Harmony--Their Schools--Further Characteristics of Veronese--of
Tintoretto--His Imaginative Energy--Predominant Poetry--Titian's Perfection of Balance--Assumption
of Madonna--Spirit common to the great Venetians.

CHAPTER VIII

LIFE OF MICHAEL ANGELO

Contrast of Michael Angelo and Cellini--Parentage and Boyhood of Michael Angelo--Work with
Ghirlandajo--Gardens of S. Marco--The Medicean Circle--Early Essays in Sculpture--Visit to
Bologna--First Visit to Rome--The Pietà of S. Peter's--Michael Angelo as a Patriot and a friend
of the Medici--Cartoon for the Battle of Pisa--Michael Angelo and Julius II.--The Tragedy of
the Tomb--Design for the Pope's Mausoleum--Visit to Carrara--Flight from Rome--Michael Angelo
at Bologna--Bronze Statue of Julius--Return to Rome--Ceiling of the Sistine Chapel--Greek and
Modern Art--Raphael--Michael Angelo and Leo X.--S. Lorenzo--The new Sacristy--Circumstances
under which it was designed and partly finished--Meaning of the Allegories--Incomplete state
of Michael Angelo's Marbles--Paul III.--The "Last Judgment"--Critiques of Contemporaries--The
Dome of S. Peter's--Vittoria Colonna--Tommaso Cavalieri--Personal Habits of Michael Angelo--His
Emotional Nature--Last Illness.

CHAPTER IX

LIFE OF BENVENUTO CELLINI

His Fame--His Autobiography--Its Value for the Student of History, Manners, and Character in
the Renaissance--Birth, Parentage, and Boyhood--Flute-playing--Apprenticeship to Marcone--Wanderjahr--The
Goldsmith's Trade at Florence--Torrigiani and England--Cellini leaves Florence for Rome--Quarrel
with the Guasconti--Homicidal Fury--Cellini a Law to Himself--Three Periods in his Manhood--Life
in Rome--Diego at the Banquet--Renaissance Feeling for Physical Beauty--Sack of Rome--Miracles
in Cellini's Life--His Affections--Murder of his Brother's Assassin--Sanctuary--Pardon and
Absolution--Incantation in the Colosseum--First Visit to France--Adventures on the Way--Accused
of stealing Crown Jewels in Rome--Imprisonment in the Castle of S. Angelo--The Governor--Cellini's
Escape--His Visions--The Nature of his Religion--Second Visit to France--The Wandering Court--Le
Petit Nesle--Cellini in the French Law Courts--Scene at Fontainebleau--Return to Florence--Cosimo
de' Medici as a Patron--Intrigues of a Petty Court--Bandinelli--The Duchess--Statue of Perseus--End
of Cellini's Life--Cellini and Machiavelli.

CHAPTER X

THE EPIGONI

Full Development and Decline of Painting--Exhaustion of the old Motives--Relation of Lionardo
to his Pupils--His Legacy to the Lombard School--Bernardino Luini--Gaudenzio Ferrari--The Devotion
of the Sacri Monti--The School of Raphael--Nothing left but Imitation--Unwholesome Influences
of Rome--Giulio Romano--Michael Angelesque Mannerists--Misconception of Michael Angelo--Correggio
founds no School--Parmigianino--Macchinisti--The Bolognese--After-growth of Art in Florence--Andrea
del Sarto--His Followers--Pontormo--Bronzino--Revival of Painting in Siena--Sodoma--His Influence
on Pacchia, Beccafumi, Peruzzi--Garofalo and Dosso Dossi at Ferrari--The Campi at Cremona--Brescia
and Bergamo--The Decadence in the second half of the Sixteenth Century--The Counter-Reformation--Extinction
of the Renaissance Impulse.

APPENDICES

I.--The Pulpits of Pisa and Ravello

II.--Michael Angelo's Sonnets

III.--Chronological Tables

FOOTNOTES:

[1] To the original edition of this volume.

It has been granted only to two nations, the Greeks and the Italians, and to the latter only
at the time of the Renaissance, to invest every phase and variety of intellectual energy with
the form of art. Nothing notable was produced in Italy between the thirteenth and the seventeenth
centuries that did not bear the stamp and character of fine art. If the methods of science
may be truly said to regulate our modes of thinking at the present time, it is no less true
that, during the Renaissance, art exercised a like controlling influence. Not only was each
department of the fine arts practised with singular success; not only was the national genius
to a very large extent absorbed in painting, sculpture, and architecture; but the aesthetic
impulse was more subtly and widely diffused than this alone would imply. It possessed the Italians
in the very centre of their intellectual vitality, imposing its conditions on all the manifestations
of their thought and feeling, so that even their shortcomings may be ascribed in a great measure
to their inability to quit the aesthetic point of view.

We see this in their literature. It is probable that none but artistic natures will ever render
full justice to the poetry of the Renaissance. Critics endowed with a less lively sensibility
to beauty of outline and to harmony of form than the Italians, complain that their poetry lacks
substantial qualities; nor is it except by long familiarity with the plastic arts of their
contemporaries that we come to understand the ground assumed by Ariosto and Poliziano. We then
perceive that these poets were not so much unable as instinctively unwilling to go beyond a
certain circle of effects. They subordinated their work to the ideal of their age, and that
ideal was one to which a painter rather than a poet might successfully aspire. A succession
of pictures, harmoniously composed and delicately toned to please the mental eye, satisfied
the taste of the Italians. But, however exquisite in design, rich in colour, and complete in
execution this literary work may be, it strikes a Northern student as wanting in the highest
elements of genius--sublimity of imagination, dramatic passion, energy and earnestness of purpose.
In like manner, he finds it hard to appreciate those didactic compositions on trifling or prosaic
themes, which delighted the Italians for the very reason that their workmanship surpassed their
matter. These defects, as we judge them, are still more apparent in the graver branches of
literature. In an essay or a treatise we do not so much care for well-balanced disposition
of parts or beautifully rounded periods, though elegance may be thought essential to classic
masterpieces, as for weighty matter and trenchant observations. Having the latter, we can dispense
at need with the former. The Italians of the Renaissance, under the sway of the fine arts,
sought after form, and satisfied themselves with rhetoric. Therefore we condemn their moral
disquisitions and their criticisms as the flimsy playthings of intellectual voluptuaries. Yet
the right way of doing justice to these stylistic trifles is to regard them as products of
an all-embracing genius for art, in a people whose most serious enthusiasms were aesthetic.

The speech of the Italians at that epoch, their social habits, their ideal of manners, their
standard of morality, the estimate they formed of men, were alike conditioned and qualified
by art. It was an age of splendid ceremonies and magnificent parade, when the furniture of
houses, the armour of soldiers, the dress of citizens, the pomp of war, and the pageantry of
festival were invariably and inevitably beautiful. On the meanest articles of domestic utility,
cups and platters, door-panels and chimney-pieces, coverlets for beds and lids of linen-chests,
a wealth of artistic invention was lavished by innumerable craftsmen, no less skilled in technical
details than distinguished by rare taste. From the Pope upon S. Peter's chair to the clerks
in a Florentine counting-house, every Italian was a judge of art. Art supplied the spiritual
oxygen, without which the life of the Renaissance must have been atrophied. During that period
of prodigious activity the entire nation seemed to be endowed with an instinct for the beautiful,
and with the capacity for producing it in every conceivable form. As we travel through Italy
at the present day, when "time, war, pillage, and purchase" have done their worst to denude
the country of its treasures, we still marvel at the incomparable and countless beauties stored
in every burgh and hamlet. Pacing the picture galleries of Northern Europe, the country seats
of English nobles, and the palaces of Spain, the same reflection is still forced upon us: how
could Italy have done what she achieved within so short a space of time? What must the houses
and the churches once have been, from which these spoils were taken, but which still remain
so rich in masterpieces? Psychologically to explain this universal capacity for the fine arts
in the nation at this epoch, is perhaps impossible. Yet the fact remains, that he who would
comprehend the Italians of the Renaissance must study their art, and cling fast to that Ariadne-thread
throughout the labyrinthine windings of national character. He must learn to recognise that
herein lay the sources of their intellectual strength as well as the secret of their intellectual
weakness.

It lies beyond the scope of this work to embrace in one inquiry the different forms of art
in Italy, or to analyse the connection of the aesthetic instinct with the manifold manifestations
of the Renaissance. Even the narrower task to which I must confine myself, is too vast for
the limits I am forced to impose upon its treatment. I intend to deal with Italian painting
as the one complete product which remains from the achievements of this period, touching upon
sculpture and architecture more superficially. Not only is painting the art in which the Italians
among all the nations of the modern world stand unapproachably alone, but it is also the one
that best enables us to gauge their genius at the time when they impressed their culture on
the rest of Europe. In the history of the Italian intellect painting takes the same rank as
that of sculpture in the Greek. Before beginning, however, to trace the course of Italian art,
it will be necessary to discuss some preliminary questions, important for a right understanding
of the relations assumed by painting to the thoughts of the Renaissance, and for explaining
its superiority over the sister art of sculpture in that age. This I feel the more bound to
do because it is my object in this volume to treat of art with special reference to the general
culture of the nation.

What, let us ask in the first place, was the task appointed for the fine arts on the threshold
of the modern world? They had, before all things, to give form to the ideas evolved by Christianity,
and to embody a class of emotions unknown to the ancients.[2] The inheritance of the Middle
Ages had to be appropriated and expressed. In the course of performing this work, the painters
helped to humanise religion, and revealed the dignity and beauty of the body of man. Next,
in the fifteenth century, the riches of classic culture were discovered, and art was called
upon to aid in the interpretation of the ancient to the modern mind. The problem was no longer
simple. Christian and pagan traditions came into close contact, and contended for the empire
of the newly liberated intellect. During this struggle the arts, true to their own principles,
eliminated from both traditions the more strictly human elements, and expressed them in beautiful
form to the imagination and the senses. The brush of the same painter depicted Bacchus wedding
Ariadne and Mary fainting on the hill of Calvary. Careless of any peril to dogmatic orthodoxy,
and undeterred by the dread of encouraging pagan sensuality, the artists wrought out their
modern ideal of beauty in the double field of Christian and Hellenic legend. Before the force
of painting was exhausted, it had thus traversed the whole cycle of thoughts and feelings that
form the content of the modern mind. Throughout this performance, art proved itself a powerful
co-agent in the emancipation of the intellect; the impartiality wherewith its methods were
applied to subjects sacred and profane, the emphasis laid upon physical strength and beauty
as good things and desirable, the subordination of classical and mediaeval myths to one aesthetic
law of loveliness, all tended to withdraw attention from the differences between paganism and
Christianity, and to fix it on the goodliness of that humanity wherein both find their harmony.

This being in general the task assigned to art in the Renaissance, we may next inquire what
constituted the specific quality of modern as distinguished from antique feeling, and why painting
could not fail to take the first place among modern arts. In other words, how was it that,
while sculpture was the characteristic fine art of antiquity, painting became the distinguishing
fine art of the modern era? No true form of figurative art intervened between Greek sculpture
and Italian painting. The latter took up the work of investing thought with sensible shape
from the dead hands of the former. Nor had the tradition that connected art with religion been
interrupted, although a new cycle of religious ideas had been substituted for the old ones.
The late Roman and Byzantine manners, through which the vital energies of the Athenian genius
dwindled into barren formalism, still lingered, giving crude and lifeless form to Christian
conceptions. But the thinking and feeling subject, meanwhile, had undergone a change so all-important
that it now imperatively required fresh channels for its self-expression. It was destined to
find these, not as of old in sculpture, but in painting.

During the interval between the closing of the ancient and the opening of the modern age, the
faith of Christians had attached itself to symbols and material objects little better than
fetishes. The host, the relic, the wonder-working shrine, things endowed with a mysterious
potency, evoked the yearning and the awe of medieval multitudes. To such concrete actualities
the worshippers referred their sense of the invisible divinity. The earth of Jerusalem, the
Holy Sepulchre, the House of Loreto, the Sudarium of Saint Veronica, aroused their deepest
sentiments of aweful adoration. Like Thomas, they could not be contented with believing; they
must also touch and handle. At the same time, in apparent contradistinction to this demand
for things of sense as signs of super-sensual power, the claims of dogma on the intellect grew
more imperious, and mysticism opened for the dreaming soul a realm of spiritual rapture. For
the figurative arts there was no true place in either of these regions. Painting and sculpture
were alike alien to the grosser superstitions, the scholastic subtleties, and the ecstatic
trances of the Middle Ages; nor had they anything in common with the logic of theology. Votaries
who kissed a fragment of the cross with passion, could have found but little to satisfy their
ardour in pictures painted by a man of genius. A formless wooden idol, endowed with the virtue
of curing disease, charmed the pilgrim more than a statue noticeable only for its beauty or
its truth to life. We all know that wunderthätige Bilder sind meist nur schlechte Gemälde.
In architecture alone, the mysticism of the Middle Ages, their vague but potent feelings of
infinity, their yearning towards a deity invisible, but localised in holy things and places,
found artistic outlet. Therefore architecture was essentially a medieval art. The rise of sculpture
and painting indicated the quickening to life of new faculties, fresh intellectual interests,
and a novel way of apprehending the old substance of religious feeling; for comprehension of
these arts implies delight in things of beauty for their own sake, a sympathetic attitude towards
the world of sense, a new freedom of the mind produced by the regeneration of society through love.

The mediaeval faiths were still vivid when the first Italian painters began their work, and
the sincere endeavour of these men was to set forth in beautiful and worthy form the truths
of Christianity. The eyes of the worshipper should no longer have a mere stock or stone to
contemplate: his imagination should be helped by the dramatic presentation of the scenes of
sacred history, and his devotion be quickened by lively images of the passion of our Lord.
Spirit should converse with spirit, through no veil of symbol, but through the transparent
medium of art, itself instinct with inbreathed life and radiant with ideal beauty. The body
and the soul, moreover, should be reconciled; and God's likeness should be once more acknowledged
in the features and the limbs of man. Such was the promise of art; and this promise was in
a great measure fulfilled by the painting of the fourteenth century. Men ceased to worship
their God in the holiness of ugliness; and a great city called its street Glad on the birthday-festival
of the first picture investing religious emotion with aesthetic charm. But in making good the
promise they had given, it was needful for the arts on the one hand to enter a region not wholly
their own--the region of abstractions and of mystical conceptions; and on the other to create
a world of sensuous delightfulness, wherein the spiritual element was materialised to the injury
of its own essential quality. Spirit, indeed, spake to spirit, so far as the religious content
was concerned; but flesh spake also to flesh in the aesthetic form. The incarnation promised
by the arts involved a corresponding sensuousness. Heaven was brought down to earth, but at
the cost of making men believe that earth itself was heavenly.

At this point the subject of our inquiry naturally divides into two main questions. The first
concerns the form of figurative art specially adapted to the requirements of religious thought
in the fourteenth century. The second treats of the effect resulting both to art and religion
from the expression of mystical and theological conceptions in plastic form.

When we consider the nature of the ideas assimilated in the Middle Ages by the human mind,
it is clear that art, in order to set them forth, demanded a language the Greeks had never
greatly needed, and had therefore never fully learned. To over-estimate the difference from
an aesthetic point of view between the religious notions of the Greeks and those which Christianity
had made essential, would be difficult. Faith, hope, and charity; humility, endurance, suffering;
the Resurrection and the Judgment; the Pall and the Redemption; Heaven and Hell; the height
and depth of man's mixed nature; the drama of human destiny before the throne of God: into
the sphere of thoughts like these, vivid and solemn, transcending the region of sense and corporeity,
carrying the mind away to an ideal world, where the things of this earth obtained a new reality
by virtue of their relation to an invisible and infinite Beyond, the modern arts in their infancy
were thrust. There was nothing finite here or tangible, no gladness in the beauty of girlish
foreheads or the swiftness of a young man's limbs, no simple idealisation of natural delightfulness.
The human body, which the figurative arts must needs use as the vehicle of their expression,
had ceased to have a value in and for itself, had ceased to be the true and adequate investiture
of thoughts demanded from the artist. At best it could be taken only as the symbol of some
inner meaning, the shrine of an indwelling spirit nobler than itself; just as a lamp of alabaster
owes its beauty and its worth to the flame it more than half conceals, the light transmitted
through its scarce transparent walls.

In ancient art those moral and spiritual qualities which the Greeks recognised as truly human
and therefore divine, allowed themselves to be incarnated in well-selected types of physical
perfection. The deities of the Greek mythology were limited to the conditions of natural existence:
they were men and women of a larger mould and freer personality; less complex, inasmuch as
each completed some one attribute; less thwarted in activity, inasmuch as no limit was assigned
to exercise of power. The passions and the faculties of man, analysed by unconscious psychology,
and deified by religious fancy, were invested by sculpture with appropriate forms, the tact
of the artist selecting corporeal qualities fitted to impersonate the special character of
each divinity. Nor was it possible that, the gods and goddesses being what they were, exact
analogues should not be found for them in idealised humanity. In a Greek statue there was enough
soul to characterise the beauty of the body, to render her due meed of wisdom to Pallas, to
distinguish the swiftness of Hermes from the strength of Heracles, or to contrast the virginal
grace of Artemis with the abundance of Aphrodite's charms. At the same time the spirituality
that gave its character to each Greek deity, was not such that, even in thought, it could be
dissociated from corporeal form. The Greeks thought their gods as incarnate persons; and all
the artist had to see to, was that this incarnate personality should be impressive in his marble.

Christianity, on the other hand, made the moral and spiritual nature of man all-essential.
It sprang from an earlier religion, that judged it impious to give any form to God. The body
and its terrestrial activity occupied but a subordinate position in its system. It was the
life of the soul, separable from this frame of flesh, and destined to endure when earth and
all that it contains had ended--a life that upon this planet was continued conflict and aspiring
struggle--which the arts, insofar as they became its instrument, were called upon to illustrate.
It was the worship of a Deity, all spirit, to be sought on no one sacred hill, to be adored
in no transcendent shape, that they were bound to heighten. The most highly prized among the
Christian virtues had no necessary connection with beauty of feature or strength of limb. Such
beauty and such strength at any rate were accidental, not essential. A Greek faun could not
but be graceful; a Greek hero was of necessity vigorous. But S. Stephen might be steadfast
to the death without physical charm; S. Anthony might put to flight the devils of the flesh
without muscular force. It is clear that the radiant physical perfection proper to the deities
of Greek sculpture was not sufficient in this sphere.

Again, the most stirring episodes of the Christian mythology involved pain and perturbation
of the spirit; the victories of the Christian athletes were won in conflicts carried on within
their hearts and souls--"For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities
and powers," demoniac leaders of spiritual legions. It is, therefore, no less clear that the
tranquillity and serenity of the Hellenic ideal, so necessary to consummate sculpture, was
here out of place. How could the Last Judgment, that day of wrath, when every soul, however
insignificant on earth, will play the first part for one moment in an awful tragedy, be properly
expressed in plastic form, harmonious and pleasing? And supposing that the artist should abandon
the attempt to exclude ugliness and discord, pain and confusion, from his representation of
the Dies Irae, how could he succeed in setting forth by the sole medium of the human body the
anxiety and anguish of the soul at such a time? The physical form, instead of being adequate
to the ideas expressed, and therefore helpful to the artist, is a positive embarrassment, a
source of weakness. The most powerful pictorial or sculpturesque delineation of the Judgment,
when compared with the pangs inflicted on the spirit by a guilty conscience, pangs whereof
words may render some account, but which can find no analogue in writhings of the limbs or
face, must of necessity be found a failure. Still more impossible, if we pursue this train
of thought into another region, is it for the figurative arts to approach the Christian conception
of God in His omnipotence and unity. Christ Himself, the central figure of the Christian universe,
the desired of all nations, in whom the Deity assumed a human form and dwelt with men, is no
fit subject for such art at any rate as the Greeks had perfected. The fact of His incarnation
brought Him indeed within the proper sphere of the fine arts; but the religious idea which
He represents removed Him beyond the reach of sculpture. This is an all-important consideration.
It is to this that our whole argument is tending. Therefore to enlarge upon this point will
not be useless.

Christ is specially adored in His last act of love on Calvary; and how impossible it is to
set that forth consistently with the requirements of strictly plastic art, may be gathered
by comparing the passion of S. Bernard's Hymn to our Lord upon the Cross with all that Winckelmann
and Hegel have so truly said about the restrained expression, dignified generality, and harmonious
beauty essential to sculpture. It is the negation of tranquillity, the excess of feeling, the
absence of comeliness, the contrast between visible weakness and invisible omnipotence, the
physical humiliation voluntarily suffered by Him that "ruled over all the angels, that walked
on the pavements of heaven, whose feet were clothed with stars"--it is all this that gives
their force and pathos to these stanzas:

    Omnis vigor atque viror
    Hinc recessit; non admiror:
    Mors apparet in inspectu,
    Totus pendens in defectu,
        Attritus aegrâ macie.

    Sic affectus, sic despectus,
    Propter me sic interfectus,
    Peccatori tam indigno
    Cum amoris in te signo
        Appare clarâ facie[3].

We have never heard that Pheidias or Praxiteles chose Prometheus upon Caucasus for the supreme
display of his artistic skill; and even the anguish expressed in the group of the Laocoon is
justly thought to violate the laws of antique sculpture. Yet here was a greater than Prometheus--one
who had suffered more, and on whose suffering the salvation of the human race depended, to
exclude whom from the sphere of representation in art was the same as confessing the utter
impotence of art to grasp the vital thought of modern faith. It is clear that the muses of
the new age had to haunt Calvary instead of Helicon, slaking their thirst at no Castalian spring,
but at the fount of tears outpoured by all creation for a stricken God. What Hellas had achieved
supplied no norm or method for the arts in this new service.

From what has hitherto been advanced, we may assert with confidence that, if the arts were
to play an important part in Christian culture, an art was imperatively demanded that should
be at home in the sphere of intense feeling, that should treat the body as the interpreter
and symbol of the soul, and should not shrink from pain and passion. How far the fine arts
were at all qualified to express the essential thoughts of Christianity--a doubt suggested
in the foregoing paragraphs--and how far, through their proved inadequacy to perform this task
completely, they weakened the hold of mediaeval faiths upon the modern mind, are questions
to be raised hereafter. For the present it is enough to affirm that, least of all the arts,
could sculpture, with its essential repose and its dependence on corporeal conditions, solve
the problem. Sculpture had suited the requirements of Greek thought. It belonged by right to
men who not unwillingly accepted the life of this world as final, and who worshipped in their
deities the incarnate personality of man made perfect. But it could not express the cycle of
Christian ideas. The desire of a better world, the fear of a worse; the sense of sin referred
to physical appetites, and the corresponding mortification of the flesh; hope, ecstasy, and
penitence and prayer; all these imply contempt or hatred for the body, suggest notions too
spiritual to be conveyed by the rounded contours of beautiful limbs, too full of struggle for
statuesque tranquillity. The new element needed a more elastic medium of expression. Motives
more varied, gradations of sentiment more delicate, the fugitive and transient phases of emotion,
the inner depths of consciousness, had somehow to be seized. It was here that painting asserted
its supremacy. Painting is many degrees further removed than sculpture from dependence on the
body in the fulness of its physical proportions. It touches our sensibilities by suggestions
more indirect, more mobile, and more multiform. Colour and shadow, aërial perspective and complicated
grouping, denied to sculpture, but within the proper realm of painting, have their own significance,
their real relation to feelings vaguer, but not less potent, than those which find expression
in the simple human form. To painting, again, belongs the play of feature, indicative of internal
movement, through a whole gamut of modulations inapprehensible by sculpture. All that drapery
by its partial concealment of the form it clothes, and landscape by its sympathies with human
sentiment, may supply to enhance the passion of the spectator, pertains to painting. This art,
therefore, owing to the greater variety of means at its disposal, and its greater adequacy
to express emotion, became the paramount Italian art.

To sculpture in the Renaissance, shorn of the divine right to create gods and heroes, was left
the narrower field of decoration, portraiture, and sepulchral monuments. In the last of these
departments it found the noblest scope for its activity; for beyond the grave, according to
Christian belief, the account of the striving, hoping, and resisting soul is settled. The corpse
upon the bier may bear the stamp of spiritual character impressed on it in life; but the spirit,
with its struggle and its passion, has escaped as from a prison-house, and flown else-whither.
The body of the dead man, for whom this world is over, and who sleeps in peace, awaiting resurrection,
and thereby not wholly dead, around whose tomb watch sympathising angels or contemplative genii,
was, therefore, the proper subject for the highest Christian sculpture. Here, if anywhere,
the right emotion could be adequately expressed in stone, and the moulded form be made the
symbol of repose, expectant of restored activity. The greatest sculptor of the modern age was
essentially a poet of Death.

Painting, then, for the reasons already assigned and insisted on, was the art demanded by the
modern intellect upon its emergence from the stillness of the Middle Ages. The problem, however,
even for the art of painting was not simple. The painters, following the masters of mosaic,
began by setting forth the history, mythology, and legends of the Christian Church in imagery
freer and more beautiful than lay within the scope of treatment by Romanesque or Byzantine
art. So far their task was comparatively easy; for the idyllic grace of maternal love in the
Madonna, the pathetic incidents of martyrdom, the courage of confessors, the ecstasies of celestial
joy in redeemed souls, the loveliness of a pure life in modest virgins, and the dramatic episodes
of sacred story, furnish a multitude of motives admirably pictorial. There was, therefore,
no great obstacle upon the threshold, so long as artists gave their willing service to the
Church. Yet, looking back upon this phase of painting, we are able to perceive that already
the adaptation of art to Christian dogma entailed concessions on both sides. Much, on the one
hand, had to be omitted from the programme offered to artistic treatment, for the reason that
the fine arts could not deal with it at all. Much, on the other hand, had to be expressed by
means which painting in a state of perfect freedom would repudiate. Allegorical symbols, like
Prudence with two faces, and painful episodes of agony and anguish, marred her work of beauty.
There was consequently a double compromise, involving a double sacrifice of something precious.
The faith suffered by having its mysteries brought into the light of day, incarnated in form,
and humanised. Art suffered by being forced to render intellectual abstractions to the eye
through figured symbols.

As technical skill increased, and as beauty, the proper end of art, became more rightly understood,
the painters found that their craft was worthy of being made an end in itself, and that the
actualities of life observed around them had claims upon their genius no less weighty than
dogmatic mysteries. The subjects they had striven at first to realise with all simplicity now
became little better than vehicles for the display of sensuous beauty, science, and mundane
pageantry. The human body received separate and independent study, as a thing in itself incomparably
beautiful, commanding more powerful emotions by its magic than aught else that sways the soul.
At the same time the external world, with all its wealth of animal and vegetable life, together
with the works of human ingenuity in costly clothing and superb buildings, was seen to be in
every detail worthy of most patient imitation. Anatomy and perspective taxed the understanding
of the artist, whose whole force was no longer devoted to the task of bringing religious ideas
within the limits of the representable. Next, when the classical revival came into play, the
arts, in obedience to the spirit of the age, left the sphere of sacred subjects, and employed
their full-grown faculties in the domain of myths and Pagan fancies. In this way painting may
truly be said to have opened the new era of culture, and to have first manifested the freedom
of the modern mind. When Luca Signorelli drew naked young men for a background to his picture
of Madonna and the infant Christ, he created for the student a symbol of the attitude assumed
by fine art in its liberty of outlook over the whole range of human interests. Standing before
this picture in the Uffizzi, we feel that the Church, while hoping to adorn her cherished dogmas
with aesthetic beauty, had encouraged a power antagonistic to her own, a power that liberated
the spirit she sought to enthral, restoring to mankind the earthly paradise from which monasticism
had expelled it.

Not to diverge at this point, and to entertain the difficult problem of the relation of the
fine arts to Christianity, would be to shrink from the most thorny question offered to the
understanding by the history of the Renaissance. On the very threshold of the matter I am bound
to affirm my conviction that the spiritual purists of all ages--the Jews, the iconoclasts of
Byzantium, Savonarola, and our Puritan ancestors--were justified in their mistrust of plastic
art. The spirit of Christianity and the spirit of figurative art are opposed, not because such
art is immoral, but because it cannot free itself from sensuous associations[4]. It is always
bringing us back to the dear life of earth, from which the faith would sever us. It is always
reminding us of the body which piety bids us to forget. Painters and sculptors glorify that
which saints and ascetics have mortified. The masterpieces of Titian and Correggio, for example,
lead the soul away from compunction, away from penitence, away from worship even, to dwell
on the delight of youthful faces, blooming colour, graceful movement, delicate emotion[5].
Nor is this all: religious motives may be misused for what is worse than merely sensuous suggestiveness.
The masterpieces of the Bolognese and Neapolitan painters, while they pretend to quicken compassion
for martyrs in their agony, pander to a bestial blood-lust lurking in the darkest chambers
of the soul[6]. Therefore it is that piety, whether the piety of monastic Italy or of Puritan
England, turns from these aesthetic triumphs as from something alien to itself. When the worshipper
would fain ascend on wings of ecstasy to God, the infinite, ineffable, unrealised, how can
he endure the contact of those splendid forms, in which the lust of the eye and the pride of
life, professing to subserve devotion, remind him rudely of the goodliness of sensual existence?
Art, by magnifying human beauty, contradicts these Pauline maxims: "For me to live is Christ,
and to die is gain;" "Set your affections on things above, not on things on earth;" "Your life
is hid with Christ in God." The sublimity and elevation it gives to carnal loveliness are themselves
hostile to the spirit that holds no truce or compromise of traffic with the flesh. As displayed
in its most perfect phases, in Greek sculpture and Venetian painting, art dignifies the actual
mundane life of man; but Christ, in the language of uncompromising piety, means everything
most alien to this mundane life--self-denial, abstinence from fleshly pleasure, the waiting
for true bliss beyond the grave, seclusion even from social and domestic ties. "He that loveth
father and mother more than me, is not worthy of me," "He that taketh not his cross and followeth
me, is not worthy of me." It is needful to insist upon these extremest sentences of the New
Testament, because upon them was based the religious practice of the Middle Ages, more sincere
in their determination to fulfil the letter and embrace the spirit of the Gospel than any succeeding
age has been.[7]

If, then, there really exists this antagonism between fine art glorifying human life and piety
contemning it, how came it, we may ask, that even in the Middle Ages the Church hailed art
as her coadjutor? The answer lies in this, that the Church has always compromised. The movement
of the modern world, upon the close of the Middle Ages, offered the Church a compromise, which
it would have been difficult to refuse, and in which she perceived art first no peril to her
dogmas. When the conflict of the first few centuries of Christianity had ended in her triumph,
she began to mediate between asceticism and the world. Intent on absorbing all existent elements
of life and power, she conformed her system to the Roman type, established her service in basilicas
and Pagan temples, adopted portions of the antique ritual, and converted local genii into saints.
At the same time she utilised the spiritual forces of monasticism, and turned the mystic impulse
of ecstatics to account. The Orders of the Preachers and the Begging Friars became her militia
and police; the mystery of Christ's presence in the Eucharist was made an engine of the priesthood;
the dreams of Paradise and Purgatory gave value to her pardons, interdictions, jubilees, indulgences,
and curses. In the Church the spirit of the cloister and the spirit of the world found neutral
ground, and to the practical accommodation between these hostile elements she owed her wide
supremacy. The Christianity she formed and propagated was different from that of the New Testament,
inasmuch as it had taken up into itself a mass of mythological anthropomorphic elements. Thus
transmuted and materialised, thus accepted by the vivid faith of an unquestioning populace,
Christianity offered a proper medium for artistic activity. The whole first period of Italian
painting was occupied with the endeavour to set forth in form and colour the popular conceptions
of a faith at once unphilosophical and unspiritual, beautiful and fit for art by reason of
the human elements it had assumed into its substance. It was natural, therefore, that the Church
should show herself indulgent to the arts, which were effecting in their own sphere what she
had previously accomplished, though purists and ascetics, holding fast by the original spirit
of their creed, might remain irreconcilably antagonistic to their influence. The Reformation,
on the contrary, rejecting the whole mass of compromises sanctioned by the Church, and returning
to the elemental principles of the faith, was no less naturally opposed to fine arts, which,
after giving sensuous form to Catholic mythology, had recently attained to liberty and brought
again the gods of Greece.

A single illustration might be selected from the annals of Italian painting to prove how difficult
even the holiest-minded and most earnest painter found it to effect the proper junction between
plastic beauty and pious feeling. Fra Bartolommeo, the disciple of Savonarola, painted a Sebastian
in the cloister of S. Marco, where it remained until the Dominican confessors became aware,
through the avowals of female penitents, that this picture was a stumbling-block and snare
to souls. It was then removed, and what became of it we do not know for certain. Fra Bartolommeo
undoubtedly intended this ideal portrait of the martyr to be edifying. S. Sebastian was to
stand before the world as the young man, strong and beautiful, who endured to the end and won
the crown of martyrdom. No other ideas but those of heroism, constancy, or faith were meant
to be expressed; but the painter's art demanded that their expression should be eminently beautiful,
and the beautiful body of the young man distracted attention from his spiritual virtues to
his physical perfections. A similar maladjustment of the means of plastic art to the purposes
of religion would have been impossible in Hellas, where the temples of Eros and of Phoebus
stood side by side; but in Christian Florence the craftsman's skill sowed seeds of discord
in the souls of the devout[8].

This story is but a coarse instance of the separation between piety and plastic art. In truth,
the difficulty of uniting them in such a way that the latter shall enforce the former, lies
far deeper than its powers of illustration reach. Religion has its proper end in contemplation
and in conduct. Art aims at presenting sensuous embodiment of thoughts and feelings with a
view to intellectual enjoyment. Now, many thoughts are incapable of sensuous embodiment; they
appear as abstractions to the philosophical intellect or as dogmas to the theological understanding.
To effect an alliance between art and philosophy or art and theology in the specific region
of either religion or speculation is, therefore, an impossibility. In like manner there are
many feelings which cannot properly assume a sensuous form; and these are precisely religious
feelings, in which the soul abandons sense, and leaves the actual world behind, to seek her
freedom in a spiritual region.[9] Yet, while we recognise the truth of this reasoning, it would
be unscientific to maintain that, until they are brought into close and inconvenient contact,
there is direct hostility between religion and the arts. The sphere of the two is separate;
their aims are distinct; they must be allowed to perfect themselves, each after its own fashion.
In the large philosophy of human nature, represented by Goethe's famous motto, there is room
for both, because those who embrace it bend their natures neither wholly to the pietism of
the cloister nor to the sensuality of art. They find the meeting-point of art and of religion
in their own humanity, and perceive that the antagonism of the two begins when art is set to
do work alien to its nature, and to minister to what it does not naturally serve.

At the risk of repetition I must now resume the points I have attempted to establish in this
chapter. As in ancient Greece, so also in Renaissance Italy, the fine arts assumed the first
place in the intellectual culture of the nation. But the thought and feeling of the modern
world required an aesthetic medium more capable of expressing emotion in its intensity, variety,
and subtlety than sculpture. Therefore painting was the art of arts for Italy. Yet even painting,
notwithstanding the range and wealth of its resources, could not deal with the motives of Christianity
so successfully as sculpture with the myths of Paganism. The religion it interpreted transcended
the actual conditions of humanity, while art is bound down by its nature to the limitations
of the world we live in. The Church imagined art would help her; and within a certain sphere
of subjects, by vividly depicting Scripture histories and the lives of saints, by creating
new types of serene beauty and pure joy, by giving form to angelic beings, by interpreting
Mariolatry in all its charm and pathos, and by rousing deep sympathy with our Lord in His Passion,
painting lent efficient aid to piety. Yet painting had to omit the very pith and kernel of
Christianity as conceived by devout, uncompromising purists. Nor did it do what the Church
would have desired. Instead of riveting the fetters of ecclesiastical authority, instead of
enforcing mysticism and asceticism, it really restored to humanity the sense of its own dignity
and beauty, and helped to proved the untenability of the mediaeval standpoint; for art is essentially
and uncontrollably free, and, what is more, is free precisely in that realm of sensuous delightfulness
from which cloistral religion turns aside to seek her own ecstatic liberty of contemplation.

The first step in the emancipation of the modern mind was taken thus by art, proclaiming to
men the glad tidings of their goodliness and greatness in a world of manifold enjoyment created
for their use. Whatever painting touched, became by that touch human; piety, at the lure of
art, folded her soaring wings and rested on the genial earth. This the Church had not foreseen.
Because the freedom of the human spirit expressed itself in painting only under visible images,
and not, like heresy, in abstract sentences; because this art sufficed for Mariolatry and confirmed
the cult of local saints; because its sensuousness was not at variance with a creed that had
been deeply sensualised--the painters were allowed to run their course unchecked. Then came
a second stage in their development of art. By placing the end of their endeavour in technical
excellence and anatomical accuracy, they began to make representation an object in itself,
independently of its spiritual significance. Next, under the influence of the classical revival,
they brought home again the old powers of the earth--Aphrodite and Galatea and the Loves, Adonis
and Narcissus and the Graces, Phoebus and Daphne and Aurora, Pan and the Fauns, and the Nymphs
of the woods and the waves.

When these dead deities rose from their sepulchres to sway the hearts of men in the new age,
it was found that something had been taken from their ancient bloom of innocence, something
had been added of emotional intensity. Italian art recognised their claim to stand beside Madonna
and the Saints in the Pantheon of humane culture; but the painters re-made them in accordance
with the modern spirit. This slight touch of transformation proved that, though they were no
longer objects of religious devotion, they still preserved a vital meaning for an altered age.
Having personified for the antique world qualities which, though suppressed and ignored by
militant and mediaeval Christianity, were strictly human, the Hellenic deities still signified
those qualities for modern Europe, now at length re-fortified by contact with the ancient mind.
For it is needful to remember that in all movements of the Renaissance we ever find a return
in all sincerity and faith to the glory and gladness of nature, whether in the world without
or in the soul of man. To apprehend that glory and that gladness with the pure and primitive
perceptions of the early mythopoets, was not given to the men of the new world. Yet they did
what in them lay, with senses sophisticated by many centuries of subtlest warping, to replace
the first, free joy of kinship with primeval things. For the painters, far more than for the
poets of the sixteenth century, it was possible to reproduce a thousand forms of beauty, each
attesting to the delightfulness of physical existence, to the inalienable rights of natural
desire, and to the participation of mankind in pleasures held in common by us with the powers
of earth and sea and air.

It is wonderful to watch the blending of elder and of younger forces in this process. The old
gods lent a portion of their charm even to Christian mythology, and showered their beauty-bloom
on saints who died renouncing them. Sodoma's Sebastian is but Hyacinth or Hylas, transpierced
with arrows, so that pain and martyrdom add pathos to his poetry of youthfulness. Lionardo's
S. John is a Faun of the forest, ivy-crowned and laughing, on whose lips the word "Repent"
would be a gleeful paradox. For the painters of the full Renaissance, Roman martyrs and Olympian
deities--the heroes of the Acta Sanctorum, and the heroes of Greek romance--were alike burghers
of one spiritual city, the city of the beautiful and human. What exquisite and evanescent fragrance
was educed from these apparently diverse blossoms by their interminglement and fusion--how
the high-wrought sensibilities of the Christian were added to the clear and radiant fancies
of the Greek, and how the frank sensuousness of the Pagan gave body and fulness to the floating
wraiths of an ascetic faith--remains a miracle for those who, like our master Lionardo, love
to scrutinise the secrets of twin natures and of double graces. There are not a few for whom
the mystery is repellent, who shrink from it as from Hermaphroditus. These will always find
something to pain them in the art of the Renaissance.

Having co-ordinated the Christian and Pagan traditions in its work of beauty, painting could
advance no farther. The stock of its sustaining motives was exhausted. A problem that preoccupied
the minds of thinking men at this epoch was how to harmonise the two chief moments of human
culture, the classical and the ecclesiastical. Without being as conscious of their hostility
as we are, men felt that the Pagan ideal was opposed to the Christian, and at the same time
that a reconciliation had to be effected. Each had been worked out separately; but both were
needed for the modern synthesis. All that aesthetic handling, in this region more precocious
and more immediately fruitful than pure thought, could do towards mingling them, was done by
the impartiality of the fine arts. Painting, in the work of Raphael, accomplished a more vital
harmony than philosophy in the writings of Pico and Ficino. A new Catholicity, a cosmopolitan
orthodoxy of the beautiful, was manifested in his pictures. It lay outside his power, or that
of any other artist, to do more than to extract from both revelations the elements of plastic
beauty they contained, and to show how freely he could use them for a common purpose. Nothing
but the scientific method can in the long run enable us to reach that further point, outside
both Christianity and Paganism, at which the classical ideal of a temperate and joyous natural
life shall be restored to the conscience educated by the Gospel. This, perchance, is the religion,
still unborn or undeveloped, whereof Joachim of Flora dimly prophesied when he said that the
kingdom of the Father was past, the kingdom of the Son was passing, and the kingdom of the
Spirit was to be. The essence of it is contained in the whole growth to usward of the human
mind; and though a creed so highly intellectualised as that will be, can never receive adequate
expression from the figurative arts, still the painting of the sixteenth century forms for
it, as it were, a not unworthy vestibule. It does so, because it first succeeded in humanising
the religion of the Middle Ages, in proclaiming the true value of antique paganism for the
modern mind, and in making both subserve the purposes of free and unimpeded art.

Meanwhile, at the moment when painting was about to be exhausted, a new art had arisen, for
which it remained, within the aesthetic sphere, to achieve much that painting could not do.
When the cycle of Christian ideas had been accomplished by the painters, and when the first
passion for antiquity had been satisfied, it was given at last to Music to express the soul
in all its manifold feeling and complexity of movement. In music we see the point of departure
where art leaves the domain of myths, Christian as well as Pagan, and occupies itself with
the emotional activity of man alone, and for its own sake. Melody and harmony, disconnected
from words, are capable of receiving most varied interpretations, so that the same combinations
of sound express the ecstasies of earthly and of heavenly love, conveying to the mind of the
hearer only that element of pure passion which is the primitive and natural ground-material
of either. This, combined with its independence of all corporeal conditions, fenders music
the true exponent of the spirit in its freedom, and therefore the essentially modern art.

For Painting, after the great work accomplished during the Renaissance, when the painters ran
through the whole domain of thought within the scope of that age, there only remained portraiture,
history, dramatic incident, landscape, genre, still life, and animals. In these spheres the
art is still exercised, and much good work, undoubtedly, is annually produced by European painters.
But painting has lost its hold upon the centre of our intellectual activity. It can no longer
give form to the ideas that at the present epoch rule the modern world. These ideas are too
abstract, too much a matter of the understanding, to be successfully handled by the figurative
arts; and it cannot be too often or too emphatically stated that these arts produce nothing
really great and universal in relation to the spirit of their century, except by a process
analogous to the mythopoetic. With conceptions incapable of being sensuously apprehended, with
ideas that lose their value when they are incarnated, they have no power to deal. As meteors
become luminous by traversing the grosser element of our terrestrial atmosphere, so the thoughts
that art employs must needs immerse themselves in sensuousness. They must be of a nature to
gain rather than to suffer by such immersion; and they must make a direct appeal to minds habitually
apt to think in metaphors and myths. Of this sort are all religious ideas at a certain stage
of their development, and this attitude at certain moments of history is adopted by the popular
consciousness. We have so far outgrown it, have so completely exchanged mythology for curiosity,
and metaphor for science, that the necessary conditions for great art are wanting. Our deepest
thoughts about the world and God are incapable of personification by any aesthetic process;
they never enter that atmosphere wherein alone they could become through fine art luminous.
For the painter, who is the form-giver, they have ceased to be shining stars, and are seen
as opaque stones; and though divinity be in them, it is a deity that refuses the investiture
of form.

FOOTNOTES:

[2] It may fairly be questioned whether that necessary connection between art and religion,
which is commonly taken for granted, does in truth exist; in other words, whether great art
might not flourish without any religious content. This, however, is a speculative problem,
for present and the future rather than the past. Historically, it has always been found that
the arts in their origin are dependent on religion. Nor is the reason far to seek. Art aims
at expressing an ideal; and this ideal is the transfiguration of human elements into something
nobler, felt and apprehended by the imagination. Such an ideal, such an all-embracing glorification
of humanity only exists for simple and unsophisticated societies in the form of religion. Religion
is the universal poetry which all possess; and the artist, dealing with the mythology of his
national belief, feels himself in vital sympathy with the imagination of the men for whom he
works. More than the painter is required for the creation of great painting, and more than
the poet for the exhibition of immortal verse. Painters are but the hands, and poets but the
voices, whereby peoples express their accumulated thoughts and permanent emotions. Behind them
crowd the generations of the myth-makers; and around them floats the vital atmosphere of enthusiasms
on which their own souls and the souls of their brethren have been nourished.

[3]
    All Thy strength and bloom are faded:
    Who hath thus Thy state degraded?
    Death upon Thy form is written;
    See the wan worn limbs, the smitten
        Breast upon the cruel tree!

    Thus despised and desecrated,
    Thus in dying desolated,
    Slain for me, of sinners vilest,
    Loving Lord, on me Thou smilest:
        Shine, bright face, and strengthen me!

[4] I am aware that many of my readers will demur that I am confounding Christianity with ascetic
or monastic Christianity; yet I cannot read the New Testament, the Imitatio Christi, the Confessions
of S. Augustine, and the Pilgrim's Progress without feeling that Christianity in its origin,
and as understood by its chief champions, was and is ascetic. Of this Christianity I therefore
speak, not of the philosophised Christianity, which is reasonably regarded with suspicion by
the orthodox and the uncompromising. It was, moreover, with Christianity of this primitive
type that the arts came first into collision.

[5] Titian's "Assumption of the Virgin" at Venice, Correggio's "Coronation of the Virgin" at Parma.

[6] Domenichino, Guido, Ribera, Salvator Rosa.

[7] Not to quote again the Imitatio Christi, it is enough to allude to S. Francis as shown
in the Fioretti.

[8] The difficulty of combining the true spirit of piety with the ideal of natural beauty in
art was strongly felt by Savonarola. Rio (L'Art chrétien, vol. ii. pp. 422-426) has written
eloquently on this subject, but without making it plain how Savonarola's condemnation of life
studies from the nude could possibly have been other than an obstacle to the liberal and scientific
prosecution of the art of painting.

[9] See Rio, L'Art chrétien, vol. ii. chap. xi. pp. 319-327, for an ingenious defence of mystic
art. The tales he tells of Bernardino da Siena and the blessed Umiliana will not win the sympathy
of Teutonic Christians, who must believe that semi-sensuous, semi-pious raptures, like those
described by S. Catherine of Siena and S. Theresa, have something in them psychologically morbid.

Architecture is always the first of the fine arts to emerge from barbarism in the service of
religion and of civic life. A house, as Hegel says, must be built for the god, before the image
of the god, carved in stone or figured in mosaic, can be placed there. Council chambers must
be prepared for the senate of a State before the national achievements can be painted on the
walls. Thus Italy, before the age of the Renaissance proper, found herself provided with churches
and palaces, which were destined in the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries to be adorned with
frescoes and statues.

It was in the middle of the thirteenth century, during the long struggle for independence carried
on by the republics of Lombardy and Tuscany against the Empire and the nobles, that some of
the most durable and splendid public works were executed. The domes and towers of Florence
and of Pisa were rising above the city walls, while the burghers who subscribed for their erection
were staining the waves of Meloria and the cane-brakes of the Arbia with their blood. Lombardy,
at the end of her duel with Frederick Barbarossa, completed a vast undertaking, by which the
fields of Milan are still rendered more productive than any other pastureland in Europe. The
Naviglio Grande, bringing the waters of the Ticino through a plain of thirty miles to Milan,
was begun in 1179, and was finished in 1258. The torrents of S. Gothard and the Simplon, which,
after filling the Lago Maggiore, seemed destined to run wasteful through a wilderness of pebbles
to the sea, were thus turned to account; and to this great engineering work, as bold as it
was simple, Milan owed the wealth that placed her princes on a level with the sovereigns of
Europe. At the same period she built her walls, and closed their circuit with the sixteen gates
that showed she loved magnificence combined with strength. Genoa, between 1276 and 1283, protected
her harbours by a gigantic mole, and in 1295 brought the streams of the Ligurian Alps into
the city by an aqueduct worthy of old Rome. Venice had to win her very footing from the sea
and sand. So firmly did she drive her piles, so vigilantly watch their preservation, that palaces
and cathedrals of marble might be safely reared upon the bosom of the deep. Meanwhile, stone
bridges began to span the rivers of Italy; the streets and squares of towns were everywhere
paved with flags. Before the first years of the fourteenth century the Italian cities presented
a spectacle of solid and substantial comfort, very startling to northerners who travelled from
the unpaved lanes of London and the muddy labyrinths of Paris.

Sismondi remarks with just pride that these great works were Republican. They were set on foot
for the public use, and were constructed at the expense of the commonwealths. It is, however,
right to add that what the communes had begun the princes continued. To the splendid taste
of the Visconti dynasty, for instance, Milan owed her wonderful Duomo and the octagon bell-tower
of S. Gottardo. The Certosas of Pavia and Chiaravalle, the palace of Pavia, and a host of minor
monuments remain in Milan and its neighbourhood to prove how much a single family performed
for the adornment of the cities they had subjugated. And what is true of Milan applies to Italy
throughout its length and breadth. The Despots held their power at the price of magnificence
in schemes of public utility. So much at least of the free spirit of the communes survived
in them, that they were always rivalling each other in great works of architecture. Italian
tyranny implied aesthetic taste and liberality of expenditure.

In no way is the characteristic diversity of the Italian communities so noticeable as in their
buildings. Each district, each town, has a well-defined peculiarity, reflecting the specific
qualities of the inhabitants and the conditions under which they grew in culture. In some cases
we may refer this local character to nationality and geographical position. Thus the name of
the Lombards has been given to a style of Romanesque, which prevailed through Northern and
Central Italy during the period of Lombard ascendency.[10] The Tuscans never forgot the domes
of their remote ancestors; the Romans adhered closely to Latin traditions; the Southerners
were affected by Byzantine and Saracenic models. In many instances the geology of the neighbourhood
determined the picturesque features of its architecture. The clay-fields of the valley of the
Po produced the brickwork of Cremona, Pavia, Crema, Chiaravalle, and Vercelli. To their quarries
of mandorlato the Veronese builders owed the peach-bloom colours of their columned aisles.
Carrara provided the Pisans with mellow marble for their Baptistery and Cathedral; Monte Ferrato
supplied Pistoja and Prato with green serpentine; while the pietra serena of the Apennines
added austerity to the interior of Florentine buildings. Again, in other instances, we detect
the influence of commerce or of conquest. The intercourse of Venice with Alexandria determined
the unique architecture of S. Mark's. The Arabs and the Normans left ineffaceable traces of
their sojourn on Palermo. Naples and Messina still bear marks upon their churches of French
workmen. All along the coasts we here and there find evidences of Oriental style imported into
mediaeval Italy, while the impress of the Spaniard is no less manifest in edifices of a later
period.

Existing thus in the midst of many potent influences, and surrounded by the ruins of past civilisations,
the Italians recombined and mingled styles of marked variety. The Roman, Byzantine, Saracenic,
Lombard, and German traditions were blended in their architecture, as the presiding genius
of each place determined. It followed that master-works of rare and subtle invention were produced,
while no one type was fully perfected, nor can we point to any paramount Italian manner. In
Italy what was gained in richness and individuality was lost in uniformity and might. Yet we
may well wonder at the versatile appreciation of all types of beauty that these monuments evince.
How strange, for example, it is to think of the Venetians borrowing the form and structure
of their temple from the mosques of Alexandria, decking its façade with the horses of Lysippus,
and panelling the sanctuary with marbles from the harem-floors of Eastern emperors; while at
the other end of Italy, at Palermo, close beside the ruined colonnades of Greek Segesta, Norman
kings were embroidering their massive churches with Saracenic arabesques and Byzantine mosaics,
interspersing delicate Arabian tracery with rope-patterns and monsters of the deep, and linking
Cuphic sentences with Scandinavian runes. Meanwhile, at Rome, tombs, baths, and theatres had
been turned into fortresses. The Orsini held the Mole of Hadrian; the Savelli ensconced themselves
in the Theatre of Marcellus, and the Colonnesi in the Mausoleum of Augustus; the Colosseum
and the Arches of Constantine and Titus harboured the Frangipani; the Baths of Trajan housed
the Capocci; while the Gaetani made a castle of Caecilia Metella's tomb. Under those vast resounding
vaults swarmed a brood of mediaeval bravi--like the wasps that hang their pear-shaped combs
along the cloisters of Pavia. There the ghost of the dead empire still sat throned and sceptred.
The rites of Christianity were carried on beneath Agrippa's dome, in Diocletian's baths, in
the Basilicas. No other style but that of the imperial people struck root near the Eternal
City. Among her three hundred churches, Rome can only show one Gothic building. Further to
the north, where German influences were more potent, the cathedrals still displayed, each after
its own kind, a sunny southern waywardness. Glowing with marbles and mosaics, glittering with
ornaments, where the foliage of the Corinthian acanthus hides the symbols of the Passion, and
where birds and Cupids peep from tangled fruits beneath grave brows of saints and martyrs;
leaning now to the long low colonnades of the Basilica, now to the high-built arches of the
purely Pointed style; surmounting the meeting point of nave and transept with Etruscan domes;
covering the façade with bas-reliefs, the roof with statues; raising the porch-pillars upon
lions and winged griffins; flanking the nave with bell-towers, or planting them apart like
flowers in isolation on the open square--these wonderful buildings, the delight and joy of
all who love to trace variety in beauty, and to note the impress of a nation's genius upon
its art, seem, like Italy herself, to feel all influences and to assimilate all nationalities.

Amid the many styles of architecture contending for mastery in Italy, three, before the age
of the Revival, bid fair to win the battle. These were the Lombard, the Tuscan Romanesque,
and the Gothic. Chronologically the two former flourished nearly during the same centuries,
while Gothic, coming from without, suspended their development. But chronology is of little
help in the history of Italian architecture; its main features being, not uniformity of progression,
but synchronous diversity and salience of local type. What remained fixed through all changes
in Italy was a bias toward the forms of Roman building, which eventually in the Renaissance,
becoming scientifically apprehended, determined the taste of the whole nation.

It is, perhaps, not wholly fanciful to say that, as the Lombards just failed to mould the Italians
by conquest into an united people, so their architecture fell short of creating one type for
the peninsula.[11] From some points of view the historian might regret that Italy did not receive
that thorough subjugation in the eighth century, which would have broken down local distinctions.
Such regrets, however, are singularly idle; for the main currents of the world's history move
not by chance; and how, moreover, could Italy have fulfilled her destiny without the divers
forms of political existence that made her what she was? Yet, standing before some of the great
Lombard churches, we are inclined to speculate, perhaps with better reason, what the result
would have been if that style of architecture could have assumed the complete ascendency over
the Italians which the Romanesque and Gothic of the North exerted over France and England?[12]
The pyramidal façade common in these buildings, the campanili that suspend aërial lanterns
upon plain square towers, the domes rising tier over tier from the intersection of nave and
transept to end in minarets and pinnacles, the low long colonnades of marble pilasters, the
open porches resting upon lions, the harmonious blending of baked clay and rosy-tinted stone,
the bold combination of round and pointed arches, and the weird invention whereby every string-course
and capital has been carved with lions, sphinxes, serpents, mermaids, griffins, harpies, winged
horses, lizards, and knights in armour--all these are elements that might, we fancy, have been
developed into a noble national style. As it is, the churches in question are often more bizarre
than really beautiful. Their peculiar character, however, is inseparably associated with the
long reaches of green plain, the lordly rivers, and the background of blue hills and snowy
Alps that constitute the charm of Lombard landscape.

If Lombard architecture, properly so-called, was partial in its influence and confined to a
comparatively narrow local sphere, the same is true of the Tuscan Romanesque. The church of
Samminiato, near Florence [about 1013], and the cathedral of Pisa [begun 1063], not to mention
other less eminent examples at Lucca and Pistoja, are sufficient evidences that in the darkest
period of the Middle Ages the Italians were aiming at an architectural Renaissance. The influence
of classical models is apparent both in the construction and the detail of these basilicas;
while the deeply grounded preference of the Italian genius for round arches, for colonnades
of pillars and pilasters, and for large rectangular spaces, with low roofs and shallow tribunes,
finds full satisfaction in these original and noble buildings. It is impossible to refrain
from deploring that the Romanesque of Tuscany should have been checked in its development by
the intrusion of the German Gothic. Had it run its course unthwarted, a national style suited
to the temperament of the people might have been formed, and much that was pedantic in the
revival of the fifteenth century have been obviated.

The place of Gothic architecture in Italy demands fuller treatment. It was due partly to the
direct influence of German emperors, partly to the imperial sympathies of the great nobles,
partly to the Franciscan friars, who aimed at building large churches cheaply, and partly to
the admiration excited by the grandeur of the Pointed style as it prevailed in Northern Europe,
that Gothic--so alien to the Italian genius and climate--took root, spread widely, and flourished
freely for a season. In thus enumerating the conditions favourable to the spread of Gottico-Tedesco,
I am far from wishing to assert that this style was purely foreign. Italy, in common with the
rest of Europe, passed by a natural process of evolution from the Romanesque to the Pointed
manner, and treated the latter with an originality that proves a certain natural assimilation.
Yet the first Gothic church, that of S. Francis at Assisi, was designed by a German; the most
splendid, that of Our Lady at Milan, is emphatically German.[13] During the comparatively brief
period of Gothic ascendency the Italians never forgot their Latin and Lombard sympathies. The
mood of mind in which they Gothicised was partial and transient. The evolution of this style
was, therefore, neither so spontaneous and simple, nor yet so uninterrupted and complete, in
Italy as in the North. While it produced the church of S. Francesco at Assisi and the cathedrals
of Siena, Orvieto, Lucca, Bologna, Florence, and Milan, together with the town-halls of Perugia,
Siena, and Florence, it failed to take firm hold upon the national taste, and died away before
the growing passion for antiquity that restored the Italians to a sense of their own intellectual
greatness. It is clear that, as soon as they were conscious of their vocation to revive the
culture of the classic age, they at once and for ever abandoned the style appropriate to northern
feudalism. They seem to have adopted it half-unwillingly and to have understood it only in
the imperfect way in which they comprehended chivalry.

The Italians never rightly apprehended the specific nature of Gothic architecture. They could
not forget the horizontal lines, flat roofs, and blank walls of the Basilica. Like their Roman
ancestors, they aimed at covering the ground with the smallest possible expenditure of construction;
to enclose large spaces within simple limits was their first object, and the effect of beauty
or sublimity was gained by the proportions given to the total area. When, therefore, they adopted
the Gothic style, they failed to perceive that its true merit consists in the negation of nearly
all that the Latin style holds precious. Horizontal lines are as far as possible annihilated;
walls are lost in windows; aisles and columns, apses and chapels, are multiplied with a view
to complexity of architectonic effect; flat roofs become intolerable. The whole force employed
in the construction has an upward tendency, and the spire is the completion of the edifice;
for to the spire its countless soaring lines--lines not of stationary strength, but of ascendent
growth--converge. All this the Italians were slow to comprehend. The campanile, for example,
never became an integral part of their buildings. It stood alone, and was reserved for its
original purpose of keeping the bells. The windows, for a reason very natural in Italy, where
there is rather too much than too little sunlight, were curtailed; and instead of the multiplied
bays and clustered columns of a northern Gothic aisle, the nave of so vast a church as S. Petronio
at Bologna is measured by six arches raised on simple piers. The façade of an Italian cathedral
was studied as a screen, quite independently of its relation to the interior; in the beautiful
church of Crema, for example, the moon at night looks through the upper windows of a frontispiece
raised far above the low roof of the nave. For the total effect of the exterior, as will be
apparent to anyone who observes the Duomo of Orvieto from behind, no thought was taken. In
this way the Italians missed the point and failed to perceive the poetry of Gothic architecture.
Its symbolical significance was lost upon them; perhaps we ought to say that the Italian temperament,
in art as in religion, was incapable of assimilating the vague yet powerful mysticism of the
Teutonic races.

On the other hand, what they sacrificed of genuine Gothic character, was made good after their
own fashion. Surface decoration, whether of fresco or mosaic, bronze-work or bas-relief, wood-carving
or panelling in marble, baked clay or enamelled earthenware was never carried to such perfection
in Gothic buildings of the purer type; nor had sculpture in the North an equal chance of detaching
itself from the niche and tabernacle, which forced it to remain the slave of architecture.
Thus the comparative defects of Italian Gothic were directly helpful in promoting those very
arts for which the people had a genius unrivalled among modern nations.

It is only necessary to contrast the two finest cathedrals of this style, those of Siena and
Orvieto, with two such buildings as the cathedrals of Rheims and Salisbury, in order to perceive
the structural inferiority of the former, as well as their superiority for all subordinate
artistic purposes. Long straight lines, low roofs, narrow windows, a façade of surprising splendour
but without a strict relation to the structure of the nave and aisles, a cupola surmounting
the intersection of nave, choir, and transepts; simple tribunes at the east end, a detached
campanile, round columns instead of clustered piers, a mixture of semicircular and pointed
arches; these are some of the most salient features of the Sienese Duomo. But the material
is all magnificent; and the hand, obedient to the dictates of an artist's brain, has made itself
felt on every square foot of the building. Alternate courses of white and black marble, cornices
loaded with grave or animated portraits of the Popes, sculptured shrines, altars, pulpits,
reliquaries, fonts and holy-water vases, panels of inlaid wood and pictured pavements, bronze
candelabra and wrought-iron screens, gilding and colour and precious work of agate and lapis
lazuli--the masterpieces of men famous each in his own line--delight the eye in all directions.
The whole church is a miracle of richness, a radiant and glowing triumph of inventive genius,
the product of a hundred master-craftsmen toiling through successive centuries to do their
best. All its countless details are so harmonised by the controlling taste, so brought together
piece by piece in obedience to artistic instinct, that the total effect is ravishingly beautiful.
Yet it is clear that no one paramount idea, determining and organising all these marvels, existed
in the mind of the first architect. In true Gothic work the details that make up the charm
of this cathedral would have been subordinated to one architectonic thought; they would not
have been suffered to assert their individuality, or to contribute, except as servants, to
the whole effect. The northern Gothic church is like a body with several members; the southern
Gothic church is an accretion of beautiful atoms. The northern Gothic style corresponds to
the national unity of federalised races, organised by a social hierarchy of mutually dependent
classes. In the southern Gothic style we find a mirror of political diversity, independent
personality, burgher-like equality, despotic will. Thus the specific qualities of Italy on
her emergence from the Middle Ages may be traced by no undue exercise of the fancy in her monuments.
They are emphatically the creation of citizens--of men, to use Giannotti's phrase, distinguished
by alternating obedience and command, not ranked beneath a monarchy, but capable themselves
of sovereign power.[14]

What has been said of Siena is no less true of the Duomo of Orvieto. Though it seems to aim
at a severer Gothic, and though the façade is more architecturally planned, a single glance
at the exterior of the edifice shows that the builders had no lively sense of the requirements
of the style they used. What can be more melancholy than those blank walls, broken by small
round recesses protruding from the side chapels of the nave, those gaunt and barren angles
at the east end, and those few pinnacles appended at a venture? It is clear that the spirit
of the northern Gothic manner has been wholly misconceived. On the other hand, the interior
is noble. The feeling for space possessed by the architect has expressed itself in proportions
large and solemn; the area enclosed, though somewhat cold and vacuous to northern taste, is
at least impressive by its severe harmony. But the real attractions of the church are isolated
details. Wherever the individual artist-mind has had occasion to emerge, there our gaze is
riveted, our criticism challenged, our admiration won. The frescoes of Signorelli, the bas-reliefs
of the Pisani, the statuary of Lo Scalza and Mosca, the tarsia of the choir stalls, the Alexandrine
work and mosaics of the façade, the bronzes placed upon its brackets, and the wrought acanthus
scrolls of its superb pilasters--these are the objects for inexhaustible wonder in the cathedral
of Orvieto. On approaching a building of this type, we must abandon our conceptions of organic
architecture: only the Greek and northern Gothic styles deserve that epithet. We must not seek
for severe discipline and architectonic design. Instead of one presiding, all-determining idea,
we must be prepared to welcome a wealth of separate beauties, wrought out by men of independent
genius, whereby each part is made a masterpiece, and many diverse elements become a whole of
picturesque rather than architectural impressiveness.

It would not be difficult to extend this kind of criticism to the Duomo of Milan. Speaking
strictly, a more unlucky combination of different styles--the pyramidal façade of Lombard architecture
and the long thin lights of German Gothic, for example--a clumsier misuse of ill-appropriated
details in the heavy piers of the nave, or a more disastrous adjustment of the monster windows
to the main lines of the nave and aisles, could scarcely be imagined. Yet no other church,
perhaps, in Europe leaves the same impression of the marvellous upon the fancy. The splendour
of its pure white marble, blushing with the rose of evening or of dawn, radiant in noonday
sunlight, and fabulously fairy-like beneath the moon and stars, the multitudes of statues sharply
cut against a clear blue sky, and gazing at the Alps across that memorable tract of plain,
the immense space and light-irradiated gloom of the interior, the deep tone of the bells above
at a vast distance, and the gorgeous colours of the painted glass, contribute to a scenical
effect unparalleled in Christendom.

The two styles, Lombard and Gothic, of which I have been speaking, were both in a certain sense
exotic. Within the great cities the pith of the population was Latin; and no style of building
that did not continue the tradition of the Romans, in the spirit of the Roman manner, and with
strict observance of its details, satisfied them. It was a main feature of the Renaissance
that, when the Italians undertook the task of reuniting themselves by study with the past,
they abandoned all other forms of architecture, and did their best to create one in harmony
with the relics of Latin monuments. To trace the history of this revived classic architecture
will occupy me later in this chapter; but for the moment it is necessary to turn aside and
consider briefly the secular buildings of Italy before the date of the Renaissance proper.

About the same time that the cathedrals were being built, the nobles filled the towns with
fortresses. These at first were gaunt and unsightly; how overcrowded with tall bare towers
a mediaeval Italian city could be, is still shown by San Gemignano, the only existing instance
where the torroni have been left untouched.[15] In course of time, when the aristocracy came
to be fused with the burghers, and public order was maintained by law in the great cities,
these forts made way for spacious palaces. The temper of the citizens in each place and the
local character of artistic taste determined the specific features of domestic as of ecclesiastical
architecture. Though it is hard to define what are the social differences expressed by the
large quadrangles of Francesco Sforza's hospital at Milan, and the heavy cube of the Riccardi
palace at Florence, we feel that the genius loci has in each case controlled the architect.
The sunny spaces of the one building, with its terra-cotta traceries of birds and grapes and
Cupids, contrast with the stern brown mouldings and impenetrable solidity of the other. That
the one was raised by the munificence of a sovereign in his capital, while the other was the
dwelling of a burgher in a city proud of its antique sobriety, goes some way to explain the
difference. In like manner the court-life of a dynastic principality produced the castle of
Urbino, so diverse in its style and adaptation from the ostentatious mansions of the Genoese
merchants. It is not fanciful to say that the civic life of a free and factious republic is
represented by the heavy walls and narrow windows of Florentine dwelling-places. In their rings
of iron, welded between rock and rock about the basement, as though for the beginning of a
barricade--in their torch-rests of wrought metal, gloomy portals and dimly-lighted courts,
we trace the habits of caution and reserve that marked the men who led the parties of Uberti
and Albizzi. The Sienese palaces are lighter and more elegant in style, as belonging to a people
proverbially pleasure-loving; while a still more sumptuous and secure mode of life finds expression
in the open loggie and spacious staircases of Venice. The graceful buildings which overhang
the Grand Canal are exactly fitted for an oligarchy, sure of its own authority and loved of
the people. Feudal despotism, on the contrary, reigns in the heart of Ferrara, where the Este's
stronghold, moated, draw-bridged, and portcullised, casting dense shadow over the water that
protects the dungeons, still seems to threaten the public square and overawe the homes of men.

To the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries, again, we owe the town halls and public palaces
that form so prominent a feature in the city architecture of Italy. The central vitality of
once powerful States is symbolised in the broletti of the Lombard cities, dusty and abandoned
now in spite of their clear-cut terra-cotta traceries. There is something strangely melancholy
in their desolation. Wandering through the vast hall of the Ragione at Padua, where the very
shadows seem asleep as they glide over the wide unpeopled floor, it is not easy to remember
that this was once the theatre of eager intrigues, ere the busy stir of the old burgh was utterly
extinguished. Few of these public palaces have the good fortune to be distinguished, like that
of the Doge at Venice, by world-historical memories and by works of art as yet unrivalled.
The spirit of the Venetian Republic still lives in that unique building. Architects may tell
us that its Gothic arcades are melodramatic; sculptors may depreciate the decorative work of
Sansovino; painters may assert that the genius of Titian, Tintoret, and Veronese shines elsewhere
with greater lustre. Yet the poet clings with ever-deepening admiration to the sea-born palace
of the ancient mistress of the sea, and the historian feels that here, as at Athens, art has
made the past towards which he looks eternal.

Two other great Italian houses of the Commonwealth, rearing their towers above the town for
tocsin and for ward, owe immortality to their intrinsic beauty. These are the Palazzo Pubblico
of Siena and the Palazzo Vecchio of Florence. Few buildings in Europe are more picturesquely
fascinating than the palace of Siena, with its outlook over hill and dale to cloud-capped Monte
Amiata. Yet, in spite of its unparalleled position on the curved and sloping piazza, where
the contrade of Siena have run their palio for centuries, this palace lacks the vivid interest
attaching to the home Arnolfo raised at Florence for the rulers of his native city. During
their term of office the Priors never quitted the Palace of the Signory. All deliberations
on state affairs took place within its walls, and its bell was the pulse that told how the
heart of Florence throbbed. The architect of this huge mass of masonry was Arnolfo del Cambio,
one of the greatest builders of the Middle Ages, a man who may be called the Michael Angelo
of the thirteenth century[16]. In 1298 he was ordered to erect a dwelling-place for the Commonwealth,
to the end that the people might be protected in their fortress from the violence of the nobles.
The building of the palace and the levelling of the square around it were attended with circumstances
that bring forcibly before our minds the stern conditions of republican life in mediaeval Italy.
A block of houses had to be bought from the family of Foraboschi; and their tower, called Torre
della Vacca, was raised and turned into the belfry of the Priors. There was not room enough,
however, to construct the palace itself with right angles, unless it were extended into the
open space where once had stood the houses of the Uberti, "traitors to Florence and Ghibellines."
In destroying these, the burghers had decreed that thenceforth for ever the feet of men should
pass where the hearths of the proscribed nobles once had blazed. Arnolfo begged that he might
trespass on this site; but the people refused permission. Where the traitors' nest had been,
there the sacred foundations of the public house should not be laid. Consequently the Florentine
Palazzo is, was, and will be cramped of its correct proportions[17].

No Italian architect has enjoyed the proud privilege of stamping his own individuality more
strongly on his native city than Arnolfo; and for this reason it may be permitted to enlarge
upon his labours here. When we take our stand upon the hill of Samminiato, the Florence at
our feet owes her physiognomy in a great measure to this man. The tall tower of the Palazzo
Vecchio, the bulk of the Duomo, and the long low oblong mass of Santa Croce are all his. His
too are the walls that define the city of flowers from the gardens round about her.[18] Even
the master-works of his successors subordinate their beauty to his first conception. Giotto's
campanile, Brunelleschi's cupola, and Orcagna's church of Orsammichele, in spite of their undoubted
and authentic originality, are placed where he had planned.

In 1294 the Florentines determined to rebuild their mother-church upon a scale of unexampled
grandeur. The commission given to their architect displays so strikingly the lordly spirit
in which these burghers set about the work, that, though it has been often quoted, a portion
of the document shall be recited here. "Since the highest mark of prudence in a people of noble
origin is to proceed in the management of their affairs so that their magnanimity and wisdom
may be evinced in their outward acts, we order Arnolfo, head-master of our commune, to make
a design for the renovation of Santa Reparata in a style of magnificence which neither the
industry nor the power of man can surpass, that it may harmonise with the opinion of many wise
persons in this city and state, who think that this commune should not engage in any enterprise
unless its intention be to make the result correspond with that noblest sort of heart which
is composed of the united will of many citizens."[19] From Giovanni Villani we learn what taxes
were levied by the Wool-Guild, and set apart in 1331 for the completion of the building. They
were raised upon all goods bought or sold within the city in two separate rates, the net produce
amounting in the first year to 2,000 lire.[20] The cathedral designed by Arnolfo was of vast
dimensions: it covers 84,802 feet, while that of Cologne covers 81,461 feet; and, says Fergusson,
"as far as mere conception of plan goes, there can be little doubt but that the Florentine
cathedral far surpasses its German rival."[21] Nothing, indeed, can be imagined more noble
than the scheme of this huge edifice. Studying its ground-plan, and noting how the nave unfolds
into a mighty octagon, which in its turn displays three well-proportioned apses, we are induced
to think that a sublimer thought has never been expressed in stone. At this point, however,
our admiration receives a check. In the execution of the parts the builder dwarfed what had
been conceived on so magnificent a scale; aiming at colossal simplicity, he failed to secure
the multiplicity of subordinated members essential to the total effect of size. "Like all inexperienced
architects, he seems to have thought that greatness of parts would add to the greatness of
the whole, and in consequence used only four great arches in the whole length of his nave,
giving the central aisle a width of fifty-five feet clear. The whole width is within ten feet
of that of Cologne, and the height about the same; and yet, in appearance, the height is about
half, and the breadth less than half, owing to the better proportion of the parts and to the
superior appropriateness in the details on the part of the German cathedral."[22] The truth
of these remarks will be felt by every one on whom the ponderous vacuity of the interior has
weighed. Other notable defects there are too in this building, proceeding chiefly from the
Italian misconception of Gothic style. The windows are few and narrow, so that little light
even at noonday struggles through them; and broad barren spaces of grey walls oppress the eye.
Externally the whole church is panelled with parti-coloured marbles, according to Florentine
custom; but this panelling bears no relation to the structure: it is so much surface decoration
possessing value chiefly for the colourist. Arnolfo died before the dome, as he designed it,
could be placed upon the octagon, and nothing is known for certain about the form he meant
it to assume. It seems, however, probable that he intended to adopt something similar to the
dome of Chiaravalle, which ends, after a succession of narrowing octagons, in a slender conical
pyramid.[23] Subordinate spires would then have been placed at each of the four angles where
the nave and transepts intersect; and the whole external effect, for richness and variety,
would have outrivalled that of any European building. It is well known that the erection of
the dome was finally entrusted to Brunelleschi in 1420. Arnolfo's church now sustains in air
an octagonal cupola of the simplest possible design, in height and size rivalling that of S.
Peter's. It was thus that the genius of the Renaissance completed what the genius of the Middle
Ages had begun. But in Italy there was no real break between the two periods. Though Arnolfo
employed the Pointed style in his design, we find nothing genuinely Gothic in the church. It
has no pinnacles, flying buttresses, side chapels, or subordinate supports. To use the phrase
of Michelet, who has chosen the dramatic episode of Brunelleschi's intervention in the rearing
of the dome for a parable of the Renaissance, "the colossal church stood up simply, naturally,
as a strong man in the morning rises from his bed without the need of staff or crutch."[24]
This indeed is the glory of Italian as compared with Northern architecture. The Italians valued
the strength of simple perspicuity: all the best works of their builders are geometrical ideas
of the purest kind translated into stone. It is, however, true that the gain of vast aërial
space was hardly sufficient to compensate for the impression of emptiness they leave upon the
senses. We feel this very strongly when we study the model prepared by Bramante's pupil, Cristoforo
Rocchi, for the cathedral of Pavia; yet here we see the neo-Latin genius of the Italian artist
working freely in an element exactly suited to his powers. When the same order of genius sought
to express its conception through the language of the Gothic style, the result was invariably
defective.[25]

The classical revival of the fifteenth century made itself immediately felt in architecture;
and Brunelleschi's visit to Rome in 1403 may be fixed as the date of the Renaissance in this
art. Gothic, as we have already seen, was an alien in Italy. Its importation from the North
had checked the free development of national architecture, which in the eleventh century began
at Pisa by a conscious return to classic details. But the reign of Gothic was destined to be
brief. Petrarch and Boccaccio, as I showed in my last volume, turned the whole intellectual
energy of the Florentines into the channels of Latin and Greek scholarship.[26] The ancient
world absorbed all interests, and the Italians with one will shook themselves free of the medieval
style they never rightly understood, and which they henceforth stigmatised as barbarous.[27]

The problem that occupied all the Renaissance architects was how to restore the manner of ancient
Rome as far as possible, adapting it to the modern requirements of ecclesiastical, civic, and
domestic buildings. Of Greek art they knew comparatively nothing: nor indeed could Greek architecture
have offered for their purpose the same plastic elements as Roman--itself a derived style,
admitting of easier adjustment to modern uses than the inflexibly pure art of Greece. At the
same time they possessed but imperfect fragments of Roman work. The ruins of baths, theatres,
tombs, temple-fronts, and triumphal arches, were of little immediate assistance in the labour
of designing churches and palaces. All that the architects could do, after familiarising themselves
with the remains of ancient Rome, and assimilating the spirit of Roman art, was to clothe their
own inventions with classic details. The form and structure of their edifices were modern;
the parts were copied from antique models. A want of organic unity and structural sincerity
is always the result of those necessities under which a secondary and adapted style must labour;
and thus the pseudo-Roman buildings even of the best Renaissance period display faults similar
to those of the Italian Gothic. While they are remarkable for grandeur of effect in all that
concerns the distribution of light and shade, the covering and enclosing of space, and the
disposition of masses, they show at best but a superficial correspondence between the borrowed
forms and the construction these are used to mask.[28] The edifices of this period abound in
more or less successful shams, in surface decoration more or less pleasing to the eye; their
real greatness, meanwhile, consists in the feeling for spatial proportions and for linear harmonies
possessed by their architects.

Three periods in the development of Renaissance architecture may be roughly marked.[29] The
first, extending from 1420 to 1500, is the age of experiment and of luxuriant inventiveness.
The second embraces the first forty years of the sixteenth century. The most perfect buildings
of the Italian Renaissance were produced within this short space of time. The third, again
comprising about forty years, from 1540 to 1580, leads onward to the reign of mannerism and
exaggeration, called by the Italians barocco. In itself the third period is distinguished by
a scrupulous purism bordering upon pedantry, strict adherence to theoretical rules, and sacrifice
of inventive qualities to established canons. To do more than briefly indicate the masterpieces
of these three periods, would be impossible in a work that does not pretend to treat of architecture
exhaustively: and yet to omit all notice of the builders of this age and of their styles, would
be to neglect the most important art-phase of the time I have undertaken to illustrate.

In the first period we are bewildered by the luxuriance of creative powers and by the rioting
of the fancy in all forms of beauty indiscriminately mingled. In general we detect a striving
after effects not fully realised, and a tendency to indulge in superfluous ornament without
regard for strictness of design. The imperfect comprehension of classical models and the exuberant
vivacity of the imagination in the fifteenth century account for the florid work of this time.
Something too is left of mediaeval fancy; the details borrowed from the antique undergo fantastic
transmutation at the hands of men accustomed to the vehement emotion of the romantic ages.
Whatever the Renaissance took from antique art, it was at first unable to assimilate either
the moderation of the Greeks or the practical sobriety of the Romans. Christianity had deepened
and intensified the sources of imaginative life; and just as reminiscences of classic style
impaired Italian Gothic, so now a trace of Gothic is perceptible in the would-be classic work
of the Revival. The result of these combined influences was a wonderful and many-featured hybrid,
best represented in one monument by the façade of the Certosa at Pavia. While characterising
the work of the earlier Renaissance as fused of divers manners, we must not forget that it
was truly living, full of purpose, and according to its own standard sincere. It was a new
birth; no mere repetition of something dead and gone, but the product of vivid forces stirred
to original creativeness by admiration for the past. It corresponded, moreover, with exquisite
exactitude to the halting of the conscience between Christianity and Paganism, and to the blent
beauty that the poets loved. On reeds dropped from the hands of dead Pan the artists of this
period, each in his, own sphere, piped ditties of romance.

To these general remarks upon the style of the first period the Florentine architects offer
an exception; and yet the first marked sign of a new era in the art of building was given at
Florence. Purity of taste and firmness of judgment, combined with scientific accuracy, were
always distinctive of Florentines. To such an extent did these qualities determine their treatment
of the arts that acute critics have been found to tax them--and in my opinion justly--with
hardness and frigidity.[30] Brunelleschi in 1425 designed the basilica of S. Lorenzo after
an original but truly classic type, remarkable for its sobriety and correctness. What he had
learned from the ruins of Rome he here applied in obedience to his own artistic instinct. S.
Lorenzo is a columnar edifice with round arches and semicircular apses. Not a form or detail
in the whole church is strictly speaking at variance with Roman precedent; and yet the general
effect resembles nothing we possess of antique work. It is a masterpiece of intelligent Renaissance
adaptation. The same is true of S. Spirito, built in 1470, after Brunelleschi's death, according
to his plans. The extraordinary capacity of this great architect will, however, win more homage
from ordinary observers when they contemplate the Pitti Palace and the cupola of the cathedral.
Both of these are master-works of personal originality. What is Roman in the Pitti Palace,
is the robust simplicity of massive strength; but it is certain that no patrician of the republic
or the empire inhabited a house at all resembling this. The domestic habits of the Middle Ages,
armed for self-defence, and on guard against invasion from without, still find expression in
the solid bulk of this forbidding dwelling-place, although its majesty and largeness show that
the reign of milder and more courtly manners has begun. To speak of the cupola of the Duomo
in connection with a simple revival of Roman taste, would be equally inappropriate. It remains
a tour de force of individual genius, cultivated by the experience of Gothic vault-building,
and penetrated with the greatness of imperial Rome. Its spirit of dauntless audacity and severe
concentration alone is antique.

Almost contemporary with Brunelleschi was Leo Battista Alberti, a Florentine, who, working
upon somewhat different principles, sought more closely to reproduce the actual elements of
Roman architecture.[31] In his remodelling of S. Francesco at Rimini the type he followed was
that of the triumphal arch, and what was finished of that wonderful façade, remains to prove
how much might have been made of well-proportioned pilasters and nobly curved arcades.[32]
The same principle is carried out in S. Andrea at Mantua. The frontispiece of this church is
a gigantic arch of triumph; the interior is noticeable for its simple harmony of parts, adopted
from the vaulted baths of Rome. The combination of these antique details in an imposing structure
implied a high imaginative faculty at a moment when the rules of classic architecture had not
been as yet reduced to method. Yet the weakness of Alberti's principle is revealed when we
consider that here the lofty central arch of the façade serves only for a decoration. Too high
and spacious even for the chariots of a Roman triumph, it forms an inappropriate entrance to
the modest vestibule of a Christian church.

Like Brunelleschi, Alberti applied his talents to the building of a palace in Florence that
became a model to subsequent architects. The Palazzo Rucellai retains many details of the mediaeval
Tuscan style, especially in the windows divided by slender pilasters. But the three orders
introduced by way of surface decoration, the doorways, and the cornices, are transcripts from
Roman ruins. This building, one of the most beautiful in Italy, was copied by Francesco di
Giorgio and Bernardo Fiorentino for the palaces they constructed at Pienza.

This was the age of sumptuous palace-building; and for no purpose was the early Renaissance
style better adapted than for the erection of dwelling-houses that should match the free and
worldly splendour of those times. The just medium between mediaeval massiveness and classic
simplicity was attained in countless buildings beautiful and various beyond description. Bologna
is full of them; and Urbino, in the Ducal Palace, contains one specimen unexampled in extent
and unique in interest. Yet here, as in all departments of fine art, Florence takes the lead.
After Brunelleschi and Alberti came Michellozzo, the favourite architect of Cosimo de' Medici;
Benedetto da Majano; Giuliano and Antonio di San Gallo; and Il Cronaca. Cosimo de' Medici,
having said that "envy is a plant no man should water," denied himself the monumental house
designed by Brunelleschi, and chose instead the modest plan of Michellozzo. Brunelleschi had
meant to build the Casa Medici along one side of the Piazza di S. Lorenzo; but when Cosimo
refused his project, he broke up the model he had made, to the great loss of students of this
age of architecture. Michellozzo was then commissioned to raise the mighty, but comparatively
humble, Riccardi Palace at the corner of the Via Larga, which continued to be the residence
of the Medici through all their chequered history, until at last they took possession of the
Palazzo Pitti.[33] The most beautiful of all Florentine dwelling-houses designed at this period
is that which Benedetto da Majano built for Filippo Strozzi. Combining the burgher-like austerity
of antecedent ages with a grandeur and a breadth of style peculiar to the Renaissance, the
Palazzo Strozzi may be chosen as the perfect type of Florentine domestic architecture.[34]
Other cities were supplied by Florence with builders, and Milan owed her fanciful Ospedale
Maggiore at this epoch to Antonio Filarete, a Florentine. This great edifice illustrates the
emancipation from fixed rule that distinguishes much of the architecture of the earlier Renaissance.
The detail is not unfrequently Gothic, especially in the pointed windows; but the feeling of
the whole structure, in its airy space and lightness, delicate terra-cotta mouldings, and open
loggie, is truly Cinque Cento.[35]

In no other style than this of the earlier Renaissance is the builder more inseparably connected
with the decorator. The labours of the stone-carver, who provided altars chased with Scripture
histories in high relief, pulpits hung against a column of the nave, tombs with canopies and
floral garlands, organ galleries enriched with bas-reliefs of singing boys, ciboria with kneeling
and adoring angels, marble tabernacles for relics, vases for holy water, fonts and fountains,
and all the indescribable wealth of scrolls and friezes around doors and screens and balustrades
that fence the choir, are added to those of the bronze-founder, with his mighty doors and pendent
lamps, his candelabra sustained by angels, torch-rests and rings, embossed basements for banners
of state, and portraits of recumbent senators or prelates.[36] The wood carver contributes
tarsia like that of Fra Giovanni da Verona.[37] The worker in wrought iron welds such screens
as guard the chapel of the Sacra Cintola at Prato. The Robbias prepare their delicately-toned
reliefs for the lunettes above the doorways. Modellers in clay produce the terra-cotta work
of the Certosa, or the carola of angels who surround the little cupola behind the church of
S. Eustorgio at Milan.[38] Meanwhile mosaics are provided for the dome or let into the floor;[39]
agates and marbles and lapis lazuli are pieced together for altar fronts and panellings;[40]
stalls are carved into fantastic patterns, and heavy roofs are embossed with figures of the
saints and armorial emblems.[41] Tapestry is woven from the designs of excellent masters;[42]
great painters contribute arabesques of fresco or of stucco mixed with gilding, and glass is
coloured from the outlines of such draughtsmen as Ghiberti.

Some of the decorative elements I have hastily enumerated, will be treated in connection with
the respective arts of sculpture and painting. The fact, meanwhile, deserves notice that they
received a new development in relation to architecture during the first period of the Renaissance,
and that they formed, as it were, an integral part of its main aesthetical purpose. Strip a
chapel of the fifteenth century of ornamental adjuncts, and an uninteresting shell is left:
what, for instance, would the façades of the Certosa and the Cappella Colleoni be without their
sculptured and inlaid marbles? The genius of the age found scope in subordinate details, and
the most successful architect was the man who combined in himself a feeling for the capacities
of the greatest number of associated arts. As the consequence of this profuse expenditure of
loving care on every detail, the monuments of architecture belonging to the earlier Renaissance
have a poetry that compensates for structural defects; just as its wildest literary extravagances--the
Hypnerotomachia Poliphili, for instance--have a charm of wanton fancy and young joy that atones
to sympathetic students for intolerable pedantries.

In the second period the faults of the first group of Renaissance builders were in a large
measure overcome, and their striving after the production of new yet classic form was more
completely realised. The reckless employment of luxuriant decoration yielded to a chastened
taste, without the sacrifice of beauty or magnificence. Style was refined; the construction
of large buildings was better understood, and the instinct for what lies within the means of
a revived and secondary manner was more true.

To Bramante must be assigned the foremost place among the architects of the golden age.[43]
Though little of his work survives entire and unspoiled, it is clear that he exercised the
profoundest influence over both successors and contemporaries. What they chiefly owed to him,
was the proper subordination of beauty in details to the grandeur of simplicity and to unity
of effect. He came at a moment when constructive problems had been solved, when mechanical
means were perfected, and when the sister arts had reached their highest point. His early training
in Lombardy accustomed him to the adoption of clustered piers instead of single columns, to
semicircular apses and niches, and to the free use of minor cupolas--elements of design introduced
neither by Brunelleschi nor by Alberti into the Renaissance style of Florence, but which were
destined to determine the future of architecture for all Italy. Nature had gifted Bramante
with calm judgment and refined taste; his sense of the right limitations of the pseudo-Roman
style was exquisite, and his feeling for structural symmetry was just. If his manner strikes
us as somewhat cold and abstract when compared with the more genial audacities of the earlier
Renaissance, we must remember how salutary was the example of a rigorous and modest manner
in an age which required above all things to be preserved from its own luxuriant waywardness
of fancy. It is hard to say how much of the work ascribed to Bramante in Northern Italy is
genuine; most of it, at any rate, belongs to the manner of his youth. The Church of S. Maria
della Consolazione at Todi, the palace of the Cancelleria at Rome, and the unfinished cathedral
of Pavia, enable us to comprehend the general character of this great architect's refined and
noble manner. S. Peter's, it may be said in passing, retains, in spite of all subsequent modifications,
many essentially Bramantesque features--especially in the distribution of the piers and rounded
niches.

Bramante formed no school strictly so called, though his pupils, Cristoforo Rocchi and Ventura
Vitoni, carried out his principles of building at Pavia and Pistoja. Vitoni's church of the
Umiltà in the latter city is a pure example of conscientious neo-Roman architecture. It consists
of a large octagon surmounted by a dome and preceded by a lofty vaulted atrium or vestibule.
The single round arch of this vestibule repeats the testudo of a Roman bath, and the decorative
details are accurately reproduced from similar monuments. Unfortunately, Giorgio Vasari, who
was employed to finish the cupola, spoiled its effect by raising it upon an ugly attic; it
is probable that the church, as designed by Vitoni, would have presented the appearance of
a miniature Pantheon. At Rome the influence of Bramante was propagated through Raphael, Giulio
Romano, and Baldassare Peruzzi. Raphael's claim to consideration as an architect rests upon
the Palazzi Vidoni and Pandolfini, the Cappella Chigi in S. Maria del Popolo, and the Villa
Madama. The last-named building, executed by Giulio Romano after Raphael's design, is carried
out in a style so forcible as to make us fancy that the pupil had a larger share in its creation
than his teacher. These works, however, sink into insignificance before the Palazzo del Te
at Mantua, the masterpiece of Giulio's genius. This most noble of Italian pleasure-houses remains
to show what the imagination of a poet-artist could recover from the splendour of old Rome
and adapt to the use of his own age. The vaults of the Thermae of Titus, with their cameos
of stucco and frescoed arabesques, are here repeated on a scale and with an exuberance of invention
that surpass the model. Open loggie yield fair prospect over what were once trim gardens; spacious
halls, adorned with frescoes in the vehement and gorgeous style of the Roman school, form a
fit theatre for the grand parade-life of an Italian prince. The whole is Pagan in its pride
and sensuality, its prodigality of strength and insolence of freedom. Having seen this palace,
we do not wonder that the fame of Giulio flew across the Alps and lived upon the lips of Shakspere:
for in his master-work at Mantua he collected, as it were, and epitomised in one building all
that enthralled the fancy of the Northern nations when they thought of Italy.

A pendant to the Palazzo del Te is the Villa Farnesina, raised on the banks of the Tiber by
Baldassare Peruzzi for his fellow townsman Agostino Chigi of Siena. It is an idyll placed beside
a lyric ode, gentler and quieter in style, yet full of grace, breathing the large and liberal
spirit of enjoyment that characterised the age of Leo. The frescoes of Galatea and Psyche,
executed by Raphael and his pupils, have made this villa famous in the annals of Italian painting.
The memory of the Roman banker's splendid style of living marks it out as no less noteworthy
in the history of Renaissance manners.[44]

Among the great edifices of this second period we may reckon Jacopo Sansovino's buildings at
Venice, though they approximate rather to the style of the earlier Renaissance in all that
concerns exuberance of decorative detail. The Venetians, somewhat behind the rest of Italy
in the development of the fine arts, were at the height of prosperity and wealth during the
middle period of the Renaissance; and no city is more rich in monuments of the florid style.
Something of their own delight in sensuous magnificence they communicated even to the foreigners
who dwelt among them. The court of the Ducal Palace, the Scuola di S. Rocco, the Palazzo Corner,
and the Palazzo Vendramini-Calergi, illustrate the, strong yet fanciful bravura style that
pleased the aristocracy of Venice. Nowhere else does the architecture of the Middle Ages melt
by more imperceptible degrees into that of the Revival, retaining through all changes the impress
of a people splendour-loving in the highest sense. The Library of S. Mark, built by Sansovino
in 1536, remains, however, the crowning triumph of Venetian art. It is impossible to contemplate
its noble double row of open arches without feeling the eloquence of rhetoric so brilliant,
without echoing the judgment of Palladio, that nothing more sumptuous or beautiful had been
invented since the age of ancient Rome.

Time would fail to tell of all the architects who crowd the first half of the sixteenth century--of
Antonio di San Gallo, famous for fortifications; of Baccio d'Agnolo, who raised the Campanile
of S. Spirito at Florence; of Giovanni Maria Falconetto, to whose genius Padua owed so many
princely edifices; of Michele Sanmicheli, the military architect of Verona, and the builder
of five mighty palaces for the nobles of his native city. Yet the greatest name of all this
period cannot be omitted: Michael Angelo must be added to the list of builders in the golden
age. In architecture, as in sculpture, he not only bequeathed to posterity masterpieces of
individual energy and original invention, in their kind unrivalled; but he also prepared for
his successors a false way of working, and justified by his example the extravagances of the
decadence. The same may be said with even greater truth of the Laurentian Library and its staircase.
The false windows, repeated pillars, and barefaced aiming at effect, that mark the insincerity
of the barocco style, are found here almost for the first time.

What S. Peter's would have been, if Michael Angelo had lived to finish it, can be imagined
from his plans and elevations still preserved. It must always remain a matter of profound regret
that his project was so far altered as to sacrifice the effect of the dome from the piazza.
This dome is Michael Angelo's supreme achievement as an architect. It not only preserves all
that is majestic in the cupola of Brunelleschi; but it also avoids the defects of its avowed
model, by securing the entrance of abundant light, and dilating the imagination with the sense
of space to soar and float in. It is the dome that makes S. Peter's what it is--the adequate
symbol of the Church in an age that had abandoned mediaevalism and produced a new type of civility
for the modern nations. On the connection between the building of S. Peter's and the Reformation
I have touched already.[45] This mighty temple is the shrine of Catholicity, no longer cosmopolitan
by right of spiritual empire, but secularised and limited to Latin races. At the same time
it represents the spirit of a period when the Popes still led the world as intellectual chiefs.
As the decree for its erection was the last act of the Papacy before the schism of the North
had driven it into blind conflict with advancing culture, so S. Peter's remains the monument
to after ages of a moment when the Roman Church, unterrified as yet by German rebels, dared
to share the mundane impulse of the classical revival. She had forgotten the catacombs and
ruthlessly destroyed the Basilica of Constantine. By rebuilding the mother church of Western
Christianity upon a new plan, she broke with tradition; and if Rome has not ceased to be the
Eternal City, if all ways are still leading to Rome, we may even hazard a conjecture that in
the last days of their universal monarchy the Popes reared this fane to be the temple of a
spirit alien to their own. It is at any rate certain that S. Peter's produces an impression
less ecclesiastical, and less strictly Christian, than almost any of the elder and far humbler
churches of Europe. Raised by proud and secular pontiffs in the heyday of renascent humanism,
it seems to wait the time when the high priests of a religion no longer hostile to science
or antagonistic to the inevitable force of progress will chaunt their hymns beneath its spacious
dome.

The building of S. Peter's was so momentous in modern history, and so decisive for Italian
architecture, that it may be permitted me to describe the vicissitudes through which the structure
passed before reaching completion. Nicholas V., founder of the secular papacy and chief patron
of the humanistic movement in Rome, had approved a scheme for thoroughly rebuilding and refortifying
the pontifical city.[46] Part of this plan involved the reconstruction of S. Peter's. The old
basilica was to be removed, and on its site was to rise a mighty church, shaped like a Latin
cross, with a central dome and two high towers flanking the vestibule. Nicholas died before
his project could be carried into effect. Beyond destroying the old temple of Probus and marking
out foundations for the tribune of the new church, nothing had been accomplished;[47] nor did
his successors until the reign of Julius think of continuing what he had begun. In 1506, on
the 18th of April, Julius laid the first stone of S. Peter's according to the plans provided
by Bramante. The basilica was designed in the shape of a Greek cross, surmounted by a colossal
dome, and approached by a vestibule fronted with six columns. As in all the works of Bramante,
simplicity and dignity distinguished this first scheme.[48] For eight years, until his death
in 1514, Bramante laboured on the building. Julius, the most impatient of masters, urged him
to work rapidly. In consequence of this haste, the substructures of the new church proved insecure,
and the huge piers raised to support the cupola were imperfect, while the venerable monuments
contained in the old church were ruthlessly destroyed.[49] After Bramante's death Giuliano
di S. Gallo, Fra Giocondo, and Raphael successively superintended the construction, each for
a short period. Raphael, under Leo X., was appointed sole architect, and went so far as to
alter the design of Bramante by substituting the Latin for the Greek cross. Upon his death,
Baldassare Peruzzi continued the work, and supplied a series of new designs, restoring the
ground-plan of the church to its original shape. He was succeeded in the reign of Paul III.
by Antonio di S. Gallo, who once more reverted to the Latin cross, and proposed a novel form
of cupola with flanking towers for the façade, of bizarre rather than beautiful proportions.
After a short interregnum, during which Giulio Romano superintended the building and did nothing
remarkable, Michael Angelo was called in 1535 to undertake the sole charge of the edifice.
He declared that wherever subsequent architects had departed from Bramante's project, they
had erred. "It is impossible to deny that Bramante was as great in architecture as any man
has been since the days of the ancients. When he first laid the plan of S. Peter's, he made
it not a mass of confusion, but clear and simple, well lighted, and so thoroughly detached
that it in no way interfered with any portion of the palace."[50] Having thus pronounced himself
in general for Bramante's scheme, Michael Angelo proceeded to develop it in accordance with
his own canons of taste. He retained the Greek cross; but the dome, as he conceived it, and
the details designed for each section of the building, differed essentially from what the earlier
master would have sanctioned. Not the placid and pure taste of Bramante, but the masterful
and fiery genius of Buonarroti, is responsible for the colossal scale of the subordinate parts
and variously broken lineaments of the existing church. In spite of all changes of direction,
the fabric of S. Peter's had been steadily advancing. Michael Angelo was, therefore, able to
raise the central structure as far as the drum of the cupola before his death. His plans and
models were carefully preserved, and a special papal ordinance decreed that henceforth there
should be no deviation from the scheme he had laid down. Unhappily this rule was not observed.
Under Pius V., Vignola and Piero Ligorio did indeed continue his tradition; under Gregory XIII.,
Sixtus V., and Clement VIII., Giacomo della Porta made no substantial alterations; and in 1590
Domenico Fontana finished the dome. But during the pontificate of Paul V., Carlo Maderno resumed
the form of the Latin cross, and completed the nave and vestibule, as they now stand, upon
this altered plan (1614). The consequence is what has been already noted--at a moderate distance
from the church the dome is lost to view; it only takes its true position of predominance when
seen from far. In the year 1626, S. Peter's was consecrated by Urban VIII., and the mighty
work was finished. It remained for Bernini to add the colonnades of the piazza, no less picturesque
in their effect than admirably fitted for the pageantry of world-important ceremonial. At the
end of the eighteenth century it was reckoned that the church had cost but little less than
fifty million scudi.

Michael Angelo forms the link between the second and third periods of the Renaissance. Among
the architects of the latter age we have to reckon those who based their practice upon minute
study of antique writers, and who, more than any of their predecessors, realised the long-sought
restitution of the classic style according to precise scholastic canons.[51] A new age had
now begun for Italy. The glory and the grace of the Renaissance, its blooming time of beauty,
and its springtide of young strength, were over. Strangers held the reins of power, and the
Reformation had begun to make itself felt in the Northern provinces of Christendom. A colder
and more formal spirit everywhere prevailed. The sources of invention in the art of painting
were dried up. Scholarship had pined away into pedantic purism. Correct taste was coming to
be prized more highly than originality of genius in literature. Nor did architecture fail to
manifest the operation of this change. The greatest builder of the period was Andrea Palladio
of Vicenza, who combined a more complete analytical knowledge of antiquity with a firmer adherence
to rule and precedent than even the most imitative of his forerunners. It is useless to seek
for decorative fancy, wealth of detail, or sallies of inventive genius in the Palladian style.
All is cold and calculated in the many palaces and churches of this master which adorn both
Venice and Vicenza; they make us feel that creative inspiration has been superseded by the
labour of the calculating reason. One great public building of Palladio's, however--the Palazzo
della Ragione at Vicenza--may be cited as, perhaps, the culminating point of pure Renaissance
architecture. In its simple and heroical arcades, its solid columns, and noble open spaces,
the strength of Rome is realised to the eyes of those who do not penetrate too far inside the
building.[52] Here, and here only, the architectural problem of the epoch--how to bring the
art of the ancients back to life and use again--was solved according to the spirit and the
letter of the past. Palladio never equalled this, the earliest of all his many works.

In the first half of the sixteenth century the dictatorship of art had been already transferred
from Florence and Rome to Lombardy.[53] The painters who carried on the great traditions were
Venetian. Among the architects, Palladio was a native of Vicenza; Giacomo Barozzi, the author
of the "Treatise on the Orders," took the name by which he is known from his birthplace, Vignola;
Vincenzo Scamozzi was a fellow-townsman of Palladio; Galeazzo Alessi, though born at Perugia,
spent his life and developed his talents in Genoa; Andrea Formigine, the palace-builder, was
a Bolognese; Bartolommeo Ammanati alone at Florence exercised the arts of sculpture and architecture
in their old conjunction. Vignola, Palladio's elder by a few years, displays in his work even
more of the scholastically frigid spirit of the late Renaissance, the narrowing of poetic impulse,
and the dwindling of vitality, that sadden the second half of the sixteenth century in Italy.
Scamozzi, labouring at Venice on works that Sansovino left unfinished, caught the genial spirit
of the old Venetian style. Alessi, in like manner, at Genoa, felt the influences of a rich
and splendour-loving aristocracy. His church of S. Maria di Carignano is one of the most successful
ecclesiastical buildings of the late Renaissance, combining the principles of Bramante and
Michael Angelo in close imitation of S. Peter's, and adhering in detail to the canons of the
new taste.

These canons were based upon a close study of Vitruvius. Palladio, Vignola, and Scamozzi were
no less ambitious as authors than as architects;[54] their minute analysis of antique treatises
on the art of construction led to the formation of exact rules for the treatment of the five
classic orders, the proportions of the chief parts used in building, and the correct method
of designing theatres and palaces, church-fronts and cupolas. Thus architecture in its third
Renaissance period passed into scholasticism.

The masters of this age, chiefly through the weight of their authority as writers, exercised
a wider European influence than any of their predecessors. We English, for example, have given
Palladio's name to the Italian style adopted by us in the seventeenth century. This selection
of one man to represent an epoch was due partly no doubt to the prestige of Palladio's great
buildings in the South, but more, I think, to the facility with which his principles could
be assimilated. Depending but little for effect upon the arts of decoration, his style was
easily imitated in countries where painting and sculpture were unknown, and where a genius
like Jean Goujon, the Sansovino of the French, has never been developed. To have rivalled the
façade of the Certosa would have been impossible in London. Yet here Wren produced a cathedral
worthy of comparison with the proudest of the late Italian edifices. Moreover, the principles
of taste that governed Europe in the seventeenth century were such as found fitter architectural
expression in this style than in the more genial and capricious manner of the earlier periods.

After reviewing the rise and development of Renaissance architecture, it is almost irresistible
to compare the process whereby the builders of this age learned to use dead forms for the expression
of their thoughts, with the similar process by which the scholars accustomed themselves to
Latin metres and the cadences of Ciceronian periods.[55] The object in each case was the same--to
be as true to the antique as possible, and without actually sacrificing the independence of
the modern mind, to impose upon it the limitations of a bygone civilisation. At first the enthusiasm
for antiquity inspired architects and scholars alike with a desire to imitate per saltum, and
many works of fervid sympathy and pure artistic intuition were produced. In course of time
the laws both of language and construction were more accurately studied; invention was superseded
by pedantry; after Poliziano and Alberti came Bembo and Palladio. In proportion as architects
learned more about Vitruvius, and scholars narrowed their taste to Virgil, the style of both
became more cramped and formal. It ceased at last to be possible to express modern ideas freely
in the correct Latinity required by cultivated ears, while no room for originality, no scope
for poetry of invention, remained in the elaborated method of the architects. Neo-Latin literature
dwindled away to nothing, and Palladio was followed by the violent reactionaries of the barocco
mannerism.

In one all-important respect this parallel breaks down. While the labours of the Latinists
subserved the simple process of instruction, by purifying literary taste and familiarising
the modern mind with the masterpieces of the classic authors, the architects created a new
common style for Europe. With all its defects, it is not likely that the neo-Roman architecture,
so profoundly studied by the Italians, and so anxiously refined by their chief masters, will
ever wholly cease to be employed. In all cases where a grand and massive edifice, no less suited
to purposes of practical utility than imposing by its splendour, is required, this style of
building will be found the best. Changes of taste and fashion, local circumstances, and the
personal proclivities of modern architects may determine the choice of one type rather than
another among the numerous examples furnished by Italian masters. But it is not possible that
either Greek or Gothic should permanently take the place assigned to neo-Roman architecture
in the public buildings of European capitals.

FOOTNOTES:

[10] The question of the genesis of the Lombard style is one of the most difficult in Italian
art-history. I would not willingly be understood to speak of Lombard architecture in any sense
different from that in which it is usual to speak of Norman. To suppose that either the Lombards
or the Normans had a style of their own, prior to their occupation of districts from the monuments
of which they learned rudely to use the decayed Roman manner, would be incorrect. Yet it seems
impossible to deny that both Normans and Lombards in adapting antecedent models added something
of their own, specific to themselves as Northerners. The Lombard, like the Norman or the Rhenish
Romanesque, is the first stage in the progressive mediaeval architecture of its own district.

[11] I use the term Lombard architecture here, as defined above (p. 31, note), for the style
of building prevalent in Italy during the Lombard occupation, or just after.

[12] The essential difference between Italy and either Northern France or England, was that
in Italy there existed monuments of Roman greatness, which could never be forgotten by her
architects. They always worked with at least half of their attention turned to the past: nor
had they the exhilarating sense of free, spontaneous, and progressive invention. This point
has been well worked out by Mr. Street in the last chapter of his hook on the Architecture
of North Italy.

[13] Even though it be now proved that not Heinrich von Gmunden, but Marco Frisone da Campione,
not a German, but a Milanese, was the first architect, this is none the less true about its style.

[14] See Vol. I., Age of the Despots, p. 153.

[15] Pavia, it may be mentioned, has still many towers standing, and the two at Bologna are famous.

[16] Arnolfo was born in 1232 at Colle, in the Val d'Elsa. He was a sculptor as well as architect,
the assistant of Niccola Pisano at Siena, and the maker of the tomb of Cardinal de Braye at
Orvieto. This tomb is remarkable as the earliest instance of the canopy withdrawn by attendant
angels from the dead man's form, afterwards so frequently adopted by the Pisan school.

[17] Giov. Villani, viii. 26.

[18] See Milizia, vol. i. p. 135. These walls were not finished till some, time after Arnolfo's
death. They lost their ornament of towers in the siege of 1529, and they are now being rapidly
destroyed.

[19] From Perkins's Tuscan Sculptors, vol. i. p. 54. A recent work by Signor G.J. Cavallucci,
entitled S. Maria del Fiore, Firenze, 1881, has created a revolution in our knowledge regarding
this church.

[20] Giov. Villani, x. 192.

[21] Illustrated Handbook of Architecture, book vi. chap. i.

[22] Ib.

[23] See Grüner's Terra Cotta Architecture of North Italy, plates 3 and 4.

[24] Compare what Alberti says in his preface to the Treatise on Painting, Opere, vol. iv.
p. 12. "Chi mai sì duro e sì invido non lodasse Pippo architetto vedendo quì struttura si grande,
erta sopra i cieli, ampla da coprire con sua ombra tutti i popoli toscani, fatta sanza alcuno
aiuto di travamenti o di copia di legname, quale artificio certo, se io ben giudico, come a
questi tempi era incredibile potersi, così forse appresso gli antiqui fu non saputo nè conosciuto?"

[25] What the church of S. Petronio at Bologna would have been, if it had been completed on
the scale contemplated, can hardly be imagined. As it stands, it is immense, and coldly bare
in its immensity. Yet the present church is but the nave of a temple designed with transepts
and choir. The length was to have been 800 feet, the width of the transepts 625, the dome 183
feet in diameter. A building so colossal in extent, and so monotonously meagre in conception,
could not but have been a failure.

[26] Vol. II., Revival of Learning, chap, 1.

[27] The following passage quoted from Milizia, Memorie degli Architetti, Parma, 1781, vol.
i. p. 135, illustrates the contemptuous attitude of Italian critics to Gothic architecture.
After describing Arnolfo's building of the Florentine Duomo, he proceeds: "In questo Architetto
si vide qualche leggiero barlume di buona Architettura, come di Pittura in Cimabue suo contemporaneo.
Ma in tutte le cose e fisiche e morali i passaggi si fanno per insensibili gradagioni; onde
per lungo tempo ancora si mantenne il corrotto gusto, che si può chiamare Arabo-Tedesco."

[28] Observe, for example, the casing of a Gothic church at Rimini by Alberti with a series
of Roman arches; or the façade of S. Andrea at Mantua, where the vast and lofty central arch
leads, not into the nave itself, but into a shallow vestibule.

[29] See Burckhardt, Cicerone, vol. i. p. 167.

[30] See De Stendhal, Histoire de la Peinture en Italie, p. 122.

[31] For a notice of his life, see Vol. II., Revival of Learning, p. 247.

[32] The Arch of Augustus at Rimini was the model followed by Alberti in this façade. He intended
to cover the church with a cupola, as may be seen from the design on a medal of Sigismondo
Pandolfo Malatesta. See too the letter written by him to Matteo da Bastia, Alberti, Opere,
vol. iv. p. 397.

[33] This ancestral palace of the Medici passed in 1659 to the Marchese Gabriele Riccardi,
from the Duke Francesco II.

[34] Von Reumont, Lorenzo de' Medici, vol. ii. pp. 187-191, may be consulted for an interesting
account of the building of this Casa Grande by Filippo Strozzi. The preparations were made
with great caution, lest it should seem that a work too magnificent for a simple citizen was
being undertaken; in particular, Filippo so contrived that the costly opus rusticum employed
in the construction of the basement should appear to have been forced upon him. This is characteristic
of Florence in the days of Cosimo. The foundation stone was laid in the morning of August 16,
1489, at the moment when the sun arose above the summits of the Casentino. The hour, prescribed
by astrologers as propitious, had been settled by the horoscope; masses meanwhile were said
in several churches, and alms distributed.

[35] Antonio Filarete, or Averulino, architect and sculptor, was author of a treatise on the
building of the ideal city, one of the most curious specimens of Renaissance fancy, to judge
from the account rendered of the manuscript by Rio, vol. iii. pp. 321-328.

[36] Matteo Civitale, Benedetto da Majano, Mino da Fiesole, Luca della Robbia, Donatello, Jacopo
della Quercia, Lo Scalza, Omodeo, and the Sansovini, not to mention less illustrious sculptors,
filled the churches of Italy with this elaborate stone-work. Among the bronze-founders it is
enough to name Ghiberti, Antonio Filarete, Antonio Pollajuolo, Donatello and his pupil Bertoldo,
Andrea Riccio, the master of the candelabrum in S. Antonio at Padua, Jacopo Sansovino, the
master of the door of the sacristy in S. Mark's at Venice, Alessandro Leopardi, the master
of the standard-pedestals of the Piazza of S. Mark's. I do not mean these lists to be in any
sense exhaustive, but simply to remind the reader of the rare and many-sided men of genius
who devoted their abilities to this kind of work. Some of their masterpieces will be noticed
in detail in the chapter on Sculpture.

[37] Especially his work at Monte Oliveto, near Siena, and in the church of Monte Oliveto at
Naples. The Sala del Cambio at Perugia may also be cited as rich in tarsia-work designed by
Perugino, while the church of S. Pietro de' Cassinensi outside the city is a museum of masterpieces
executed by Fra Damiano da Bergamo and Stefano da Bergamo from designs of Raphael. Not less
beautiful are the inlaid wood panels in the Palace of Urbino, by Maestro Giacomo of Florence.

[38] The churches and palaces of Lombardy are peculiarly rich in this kind of decoration. The
façade of the Oratory of S. Bernardino at Perugia, designed and executed by Agostino di Duccio,
is a masterpiece of rare beauty in this style.

[39] Not to mention the Renaissance mosaics of S. Mark's at Venice, the cupola of S. Maria
del Popolo at Rome, executed in mosaic by Raphael, deserves special mention. A work illustrative
of this cupola is one of Ludwig Grüner's best publications.

[40] South Italy and Florence are distinguished by two marked styles in this decoration of
inlaid marbles or opera di commesso. Compare the Medicean chapel in S. Lorenzo, for instance,
with the high altar of the cathedral of Messina.

[41] The roof of the Duomo at Volterra is a fine specimen.

[42] It will not be forgotten that Raphael's cartoons were made for tapestry.

[43] Bramante Lazzari was born at Castel Durante, near Urbino, in 1444. He spent the early
years of his architect's life in Lombardy, in the service of Lodovico Sforza, and came probably
to Rome upon his patron's downfall in 1499.

[44] See Vol. I., Age of the Despots, p. 342.

[45] See Vol. I., Age of the Despots, p. 344. See Gregorovius, Geschichte der Stadt Rom, vol.
viii. p. 127, and the quotation there translated from Pallavicini's History of the Council
of Trent.

[46] See Vol. I., Age of the Despots, pp. 296-298. Vol. II., Revival of Learning, pp. 161-166.
For his architectural designs see his Life, by Manetti, book ii., in Muratori, vol. iii. part ii.

[47] Gregorovius, vol. vii. p. 638.

[48] Besides the great work of Bonanni, Templi Vaticani Historia, I may refer my readers to
the atlas volume of Illustrations, Architectural and Pictorial, of the Genius of Michael Angelo
Buonarroti, compiled by Mr. Harford (Colnaghi, 1857). Plates 1 to 7 of that work are devoted
to the plans of S. Peter's. Plate 4 is specially interesting, since it represents in one view
the old basilica and the design of Bramante, together with those of Antonio di S. Gallo and
Michael Angelo.

[49] The subterranean vaults of S. Peter's contain mere fragments of tombs, some precious as
historical records, some valuable as works of art, swept together pell-mell from the ruins
of the old basilica.

[50] See the original letter to Ammanati, published from the Archivio Buonarroti, by Signor
Milanesi, p. 535.

[51] I am far from meaning that the earlier architects had not been guided by ancient authors.
Alberti's Treatise on the Art of Building is a sufficient proof of their study of Vitruvius,
and we know that Fabio Calvi translated that writer into Italian for Raphael. In the later
Renaissance this study passed into purism.

[52] It must be confessed that this grandiose and picturesque structure is but a shell to mask
an earlier Gothic edifice.

[53] Compare Vol. II., Revival of Learning, p. 370, for the same transference of power in literature
from Central to Northern Italy at this time.

[54] Palladio's Four Books of Architecture, first published at Venice in 1570, and Vignola's
Treatise on the Five Orders, have been translated into all the modern languages. Scamozzi projected,
and partly finished, a comprehensive work on Universal Architecture, which was printed in 1685
at Venice.

[55] See Vol. II., Revival of Learning, chap. viii.

In the procession of the fine arts, sculpture always follows close upon the steps of architecture,
and at first appears in some sense as her handmaid. Mediaeval Italy found her Pheidias in a
great man of Pisan origin, born during the first decade of the thirteenth century. It was Niccola
Pisano, architect and sculptor, who first breathed with the breath of genius life into the
dead forms of plastic art. From him we date the dawn of the aesthetical Renaissance with the
same certainty as from Petrarch that of humanism; for he determined the direction not only
of sculpture but also of painting in Italy. To quote the language of Lord Lindsay's panegyric:
"Neither Dante nor Shakspere can boast such extent and durability of influence; for whatever
of highest excellence has been achieved in sculpture and painting, not in Italy only but throughout
Europe, has been in obedience to the impulse he primarily gave, and in following up the principle
which he first struck out."[56] In truth, Niccola Pisano put the artist on the right track
of combining the study of antiquity with the study of nature; and to him belongs the credit
not merely of his own achievement, considerable as that may be, but also of the work of his
immediate scholars and of all who learned from him to portray life. From Niccola Pisano onward
to Michael Angelo and Cellini we trace one genealogy of sculptors, who, though they carried
art beyond the sphere of his invention, looked back to him as their progenitor. The man who
first emancipated sculpture from servile bondage, and opened a way for the attainment of true
beauty, would by the Greeks have been honoured with a special cultas as the Hero Eponym of
art. It remains for us after our own fashion to pay some such homage to Pisano.

The chief difficulty with which the student of early art and literature has to deal, is the
insufficiency of positive information. Instead of accurate dates and well-established facts
he finds a legend, rich apparently in detail, but liable at every point to doubt, and subject
to attack by plausible conjecture. In the absence of contemporary documents and other trustworthy
sources of instruction, he is tempted to substitute his own hypotheses for tradition and to
reconstruct the faulty outlines of forgotten history according to his own ideas of fitness.
The Germans have been our masters in this species of destructive, dubitative, restorative criticism;
and it is undoubtedly flattering to the historian's vanity to constitute himself a judge and
arbiter in cases where tact and ingenuity may claim to sift the scattered fragment of confused
narration. Yet to resist this temptation is in many cases a plain and simple duty. Tradition,
when not positively disproved, should be allowed to have its full value; and a sounder historic
sense is exercised in adopting its testimony with due caution, than in recklessly rejecting
it and substituting guesses which the lack of knowledge renders unsubstantial. Tradition may
err about dates, details, and names. It is just here that antiquarian research can render valuable
help. But there are occasions when the perusal of documents and the exercise of what is called
the higher criticism afford no surer basis for opinion. If in such cases a legend has been
formed and recorded, the student will advance further toward comprehending the spirit of his
subject by patiently considering what he knows to be in part perhaps a mythus, than by starting
with the foregone conclusion that the legend must of necessity be worthless, and that his cunning
will suffice to supply the missing clue.[57]

Thus much I have said by way of preface to what follows upon Niccola Pisano. Almost all we
know about him is derived from a couple of inscriptions, a few contracts, and his Life by Giorgio
Vasari. It is clear that Vasari often wrote with carelessness, confusing dates and places,
and taking no pains to verify the truth of his assertions. Much of Niccola's biography reads
like a legend in his pages--the popular and oral tradition of a great man, whose panegyric
it was more easy in the sixteenth century to adorn with rhetoric than to chronicle the details
of his life with scrupulous fidelity. A well-founded conviction of Vasari's frequent inaccuracy
has induced recent critics to call in question many hitherto accepted points about the nationality
and training of Pisano. The discussion, of their arguments I leave for the appendix, contenting
myself at present with relating so much of Vasari's legend as cannot, I think, reasonably be
rejected.[58]

Before the sculptor appeared in Niccola Pisano, he was already a famous architect; and it must
always be remembered that he and his school subordinated the plastic to the constructive arts.
It was not until the year 1233, or 1237, according to different modern calculations, that he
executed his first masterpiece in sculpture.[59] This was a "Deposition from the Cross," in
high relief, placed in a lunette over one of the side doors of S. Martino at Lucca. The noble
forms of this group, the largeness of its style, the breadth of drapery and freedom of action
it displays, but, above all, the unity of its design, proclaimed that a new era had begun for
art. In order to appreciate the importance of this relief, it is only necessary to compare
it with the processional treatment of similar subjects upon early Christian sarcophagi, where
each figure stands up stiff and separate, nor can the controlling and combining artist's thought
be traced in any effort after composition. Ever since the silver age of Hadrian, when a Bithynian
slave by his beauty gave a final impulse to the Genius of Greece, sculpture had been gradually
declining until nothing was left but a formal repetition of conventional outlines. The so-called
Romanesque and Byzantine styles were but the dotage of second childhood, fumbling with the
methods and materials of an irrecoverable past. It is true, indeed, that unknown mediaeval
carvers had shown an instinct for the beautiful as well as great fertility of grotesque invention.
The façades of Lombard churches are covered with fanciful and sometimes forcibly dramatic groups
of animals and men in combat; and contemporaneously with Niccola Pisano, many Gothic sculptors
of the North were adorning the façades and porches of cathedrals with statuary unrivalled in
one style of loveliness.[60] Yet the founder of a line of progressive artists had not arisen,
and, except in Italy, the conditions were still wanting under which alone the plastic arts
could attain to independence. A fresh start, at once conscious and scientific, was imperatively
demanded. This new beginning sculpture took in the brain of Niccola Pisano, who returned from
the bye-paths of his predecessors to the free field of nature, and who learned precious lessons
from the fragments of classical sculpture existing in his native town. As though to prove the
essential dependence of the modern revival upon the recovery of antique culture, we find that
his genius, in spite of its powerful originality and profoundly Christian bias, required the
confirmation which could only be derived from Graeco-Roman precedent. In the Campo Santo at
Pisa may still be seen a sarcophagus representing the story of Hippolytus and Phaedra, where
once reposed the dust of Beatrice, the mother of the pious Countess Matilda of Tuscany. Studying
the heroic nudities and noble attitudes of this bas-relief, Niccola rediscovered the right
way of art--not by merely copying his model, but by divining the secret of the grand style.
His work at Pisa contains abundant evidence that, while he could not wholly free himself from
the defects of the later Romanesque manner, betrayed by his choice of short and square-set
types, he nevertheless learned from the antique how to aim at beauty and freedom in his imitation
of the living human form. A marble vase, sculptured with Indian Bacchus and his train of Maenads,
gave him further help. From these grave or graceful classic forms, satisfied with their own
goodliness, and void of inner symbolism, the Christian sculptor drank the inspiration of Renaissance
art. In the "Adoration of the Magi," carved upon his Pisan pulpit, Madonna assumes the haughty
pose of Theseus' wife; while the high priest, in the "Circumcision," displays the majesty of
Dionysus leaning on the neck of Ampelus. Nor again is the naked vigour of Hippolytus without
its echo in the figure of the young man--Hercules or Fortitude--upon a bracket of the same
pulpit. These sculptures of Pisano are thus for us a symbol of what happened in the age of
the Revival. The old world and the new shook hands; Christianity and Hellenism kissed each
other. And yet they still remained antagonistic--fused externally by art, but severed in the
consciousness that, during those strange years of dubious impulse, felt the might of both.
Monks leaning from Pisano's pulpit preached the sinfulness of natural pleasure to women whose
eyes were fixed on the adolescent beauty of an athlete. Not far off was the time when Filarete
should cast in bronze the legends of Ganymede and Leda for the portals of S. Peter's, when
Raphael should mingle a carnival of more than pagan sensuality with Bible subjects in Leo's
Loggie, when Guglielmo della Porta should place the naked portrait of Giulia Bella in marble
at the feet of Paul III. upon his sepulchre.[61]

Niccola, meanwhile, did not follow his Roman models in any slavish spirit. They were neither
numerous nor excellent enough to compel blind imitation or to paralyse inventive impulse. The
thoughts to be expressed in marble by the first modern artist were not Greek. This in itself
saved him from that tendency to idle reproduction which proved the ruin of the later neo-pagan
sculptors. Yet the fragments of antique work he found within his reach, helped him to struggle
after a higher quality of style, and established standards of successful treatment. For the
rest, his choice of form and the proportions of his figures show that Niccola resorted to native
Tuscan models. If nothing of his handiwork were left but the bas-relief of the "Inferno" on
the Pisan pulpit, the torsos of the men struggling with demons in that composition would prove
this point. It remains his crowning merit to have first expressed the mythology of Christianity
and the sentiment of the Middle Ages with the conscious aim of a real artist. And here it may
be noticed that, a true Italian, he infused but little of intense or mystical emotion into
his art. Niccola is more of a humanist, if this word may be applied to a sculptor, than some
of his immediate successors. The hexagonal pulpit in the Baptistery of Pisa, the octagonal
pulpit in the cathedral of Siena, the fountain in the marketplace of Perugia, and the shrine
of S. Dominic at Bologna, all of them designed and partly finished between 1260 and 1274 by
Niccola and his scholars, display his mastery over the art of sculpture in the maturity of
his genius. So highly did the Pisans prize their fellow-townsman's pulpit that a law was passed
and guardians were appointed for its preservation--much in the same way as the Zeus of Pheidias
was consigned to the care of the Phaidruntai.

Niccola Pisano founded a school. His son Giovanni, and the numerous pupils employed upon the
monuments just mentioned at Siena, Bologna, and Perugia, carried on the tradition of their
master, and spread his style abroad through Italy. Giovanni Pisano, to whom we owe the Spina
Chapel and the Campo Santo at Pisa, the façade of the Sienese Duomo, and the altar-shrine of
S. Donato at Arezzo--four of the purest works of Gothic art in Italy--showed a very decided
leaning to the vehement and mystic style of the Transalpine sculptors. We trace a dramatic
intensity in Giovanni's work, not derived from his father, not caught from study of the antique,
and curiously blended with the general characteristics of the Pisan school. In spite of the
Gothic cusps introduced by Niccola into his pulpits, the spirit of his work remained classical.
The young Hercules holding the lion's cub in his right hand upon his shoulder, while with his
left he tames the raging lioness, has the true Italian instinct for a return to Latin style.
The same sympathy with the past is observable in the self-restraint and comparative coldness
of the bas-reliefs at Pisa. The Junonian attitude of Madonna, the senatorial dignity of Simeon,
the ponderous folding of the drapery, and the massive carriage of the neck throughout, denote
an effort to revivify an antique manner. What, therefore, Niccola effected for sculpture was
a classical revival in the very depth of the Middle Ages. The case is different with his son
Giovanni. Profiting by the labours of his father, and following in his footsteps, he carried
the new art into another region, and brought a genius of more picturesque and forcible temper
into play. The value of this new direction given to sculpture for the arts of Italy, especially
for painting, cannot be exaggerated. Without Giovanni's intervention, the achievement of Niccola
might possibly have been as unproductive of immediate results as the Tuscan Romanesque, that
mediaeval effort after the Renaissance, was in architecture.[62]

The Gothic element, so cautiously adopted by Niccola, is used with sympathy and freedom by
his son, whose masterpiece, the pulpit of S. Andrea at Pistoja, might be selected as the supreme
triumph of Italian Gothic sculpture. The superiority of that complex and consummate work of
plastic art over the pulpit of the Pisan Baptistery, in all the most important qualities of
style and composition, can scarcely be called in question. Its only serious fault is an exaggeration
of the height of the pillars in proportion to the size of the hexagon they support. Like the
pulpits of the Baptistery, of the Duomo of Pisa, and of the Duomo of Siena, it combines bas-reliefs
and detached statues, carved capitals, and sculptured lions, in a maze of marvellous invention;
but it has no rival in the architectonic effect of harmony, and the masterly feeling for balanced
masses it displays. The five subjects chosen by Giovanni for his bas-reliefs are the "Nativity,"
the "Adoration of the Magi," the "Massacre of the Innocents," the "Crucifixion," and the "Last
Judgment." In the "Nativity" our Lady is no longer the Roman matron of Niccola's conception,
but a graceful mother, young in years, and bending with the weakness of childbirth. Her attitude,
exquisite by the suggestion of tenderness and delicacy, is one that often reappears in the
later work of the Pisan school--for example, in the rough abozzamento in the Campo Santo at
Pisa, above the north door of the Duomo at Lucca, and at Orvieto on the façade of the cathedral;
but it has nowhere else been treated with the same sense of beauty. The "Massacre of the Innocents,"
compared with this relief, is a tragedy beside an idyll. Here the whole force of Giovanni's
eminently dramatic genius comes into full play. Not only has he treated the usual incidents
of mothers struggling with soldiers and bewailing their dead darlings, but he has also introduced
a motive, which might well have been used by subsequent artists in dealing with the same subjects.
Herod is throned in one corner of the composition; before him stand a group of men and women,
some imploring the tyrant for mercy, some defying him in impotent despair, and some invoking
the curse of God upon his head. In the "Adoration of the Magi," again, Giovanni shows originality
by the double action he has chosen to develop. On one side the kings are sleeping, while an
angel comes to wake them, pointing out the star. On the other side they fall at the feet of
the Madonna. It will be gathered even from these bare descriptions that Giovanni introduced
a stir of life and movement, and felt his subjects with a poetic intensity, alien to the ideal
of Graeco-Roman sculpture. He effected a fusion between the grand style revived by Niccola
and the romantic fervour of the modern imagination. It was in this way that the tradition handed
down by him proved inestimably serviceable to the painters.

The bas-reliefs, however, by no means form the chief attraction of this pulpit. At each of
its six angles stand saints, evangelists, and angels, whose symbolism it is not now so easy
to decipher. The most beautiful groups are a company of angels blowing the judgment trumpets,
and a winged youth standing above a winged lion and bull. These groups separate the several
compartments of the bas-reliefs, and help to form the body of the pulpit. Beneath, on capital's
of the supporting pillars, stand the Sibyls, each with her attendant genius, while prophets
lean or crouch within the spandrils of the arches. Thus every portion of this master-work is
crowded with figures--some detached, some executed in relief; and yet, amid so great a multitude,
the eye is not confused; the total effect is nowhere dissipated. The whole seems governed by
one constructive thought, projected as a perfect unity of composition.[63]

A later work of Giovanni Pisano was the pulpit executed for the cathedral of Pisa, now unfortunately
broken up. An interesting fragment, one of the supporting columns of the octagon which formed
the body of this structure, still exists in the museum of the Campo Santo. It is an allegorical
statue of Pisa. The Ghibelline city is personified as a crowned woman, suckling children at
her breast, and standing on a pedestal supported by the eagle of the Empire. She wears a girdle
of rope seven times knotted, to betoken the rule of Pisa over seven subject islands. At the
four corners of her throne stand the four human virtues, Prudence, Temperance, Justice, and
Fortitude, distinguished less by beauty of shape than by determined energy of symbolism. Temperance
is a naked woman, with hair twisted in the knots and curls of a Greek Aphrodite. Justice is
old and wrinkled, clothed with massive drapery, and holding in her hand the scales. Throughout
this group there is no attempt to realise forms pleasing to the eye; the sculptor has aimed
at suggesting to the mind as many points of intellectual significance as possible. In spite
of ugliness and hardness, the "Allegory of Pisa" commands respect by vigour of conception,
and rivets attention by force of execution.

A more popular and pleasing monument by Giovanni Pisano is the tomb of Benedict XI. in the
church of S. Domenico at Perugia. The Pope, whose life was so obnoxious to the ambition of
Philip le Bel that his timely death aroused suspicion of poison, lies asleep upon his marble
bier with hands crossed in an attitude of peaceful expectation.[64] At his head and feet stand
angels drawing back the curtains that would else have shrouded this last slumber of a good
man from the eyes of the living.[65] A contrast is thus established between the repose of the
dead and the ever-watchful activity of celestial ministers. Sleep so guarded, the sculptor
seeks to tell us, must have glorious waking; and when those hands unfold upon the Resurrection
morning, the hushed sympathy of the attendant angels will break into smiles and singing, as
they lead the just man to the Lord he served in life.

Whether Giovanni Pisano had any share in the sculpture on the façade of the cathedral at Orvieto,
is not known for certain. Vasari asserts that Niccola and his pupils worked upon this series
of bas-reliefs, setting forth the whole Biblical history and the cycle of Christian beliefs
from the creation of the world to the last judgment. Yet we know that Niccola himself died
at least twelve years before the foundation of the church in 1290; nor is there any proof that
his immediate scholars were engaged upon the fabric. The Orvietan archives are singularly silent
with regard to a monument of so large extent and vast importance, which must have taxed to
the uttermost the resources of the ablest stone-carvers in Italy.[66] Meanwhile, what Vasari
says is valuable only as a witness to the fame of Niccola Pisano. His manner, as continued
and developed by his school, is unmistakable at Orvieto: but in the absence of direct information,
we are left to conjecture the conditions under which this, the closing if not the crowning
achievement of thirteenth-century sculpture, was produced.

When the great founder of Italian art visited Siena in 1266 for the completion of his pulpit
in the Duomo, he found a guild of sculptors, or taglia-pietri, in that city, numbering some
sixty members, and governed by a rector and three chamberlains. Instead of regarding Niccola
with jealousy, these craftsmen only sought to learn his method. Accordingly it seems that a
new impulse was given to sculpture in Siena; and famous workmen arose who combined this art
with that of building. The chief of these was Lorenzo Maitani, who died in 1330, having designed
and carried to completion the Duomo of Orvieto during his lifetime.[67] While engaged in this
great undertaking, Maitani directed a body of architects, stone-carvers, bronze-founders, mosaists,
and painters, gathered together into a guild from the chief cities of Tuscany. It cannot be
proved that any of the Pisani, properly so called, were among their number. Lacking evidence
to the contrary, we must give to Maitani, the master-spirit of the company, full credit for
the sculpture carried out in obedience to his general plan. As the church of S. Francis at
Assisi formed an epoch in the history of painting, by concentrating the genius of Giotto on
a series of masterpieces, so the Duomo of Orvieto, by giving free scope to the school of Pisa,
marked a point in the history of sculpture. It would be difficult to find elsewhere even separate
works of greater force and beauty belonging to this, the first or architectural, period of
Italian sculpture; and nowhere has the whole body of Christian belief been set forth with method
more earnest and with vigour more sustained.[68] The subjects selected by these unknown craftsmen
for illustration in marble, are in many instances the same as those afterwards painted in fresco
by Michael Angelo and Raphael at Borne. Their treatment, for example, of the creation of Adam
and Eve, adopted in all probability from still earlier and ruder workmen, after being refined
by the improvements of successive generations, may still be observed in the triumphs of the
Sistine Chapel and the Loggie.[69] It was the practice of Italian artists not to seek originality
by diverging from the traditional modes of presentation, but to prove their mastery by rendering
these as perfect and effective as the maturity of art could make them. For the Italians, as
before them for the Greeks, plagiarism was a word unknown, in all cases where it was possible
to improve upon the invention of less fortunate predecessors. The student of art may, therefore,
now enjoy the pleasure of tracing sculpturesque or pictorial motives from their genesis in
some rude fragment to their final development in the master-works of a Lionardo or a Raphael,
where scientific grouping of figures, higher idealisation of style, the suggestion of freer
movement, and more varied dramatic expression yield at last the full flower that the simple
germ enfolded.

Among the most distinguished scholars of Niccola Pisano's tradition must now be mentioned Andrea
da Pontadera, called Andrea Pisano, who carried the manner of his master to Florence, and helped
to fulfil the destiny of Italian sculpture by submitting it to the rising art of painting.
Under the direction of Giotto he carved statues for the Campanile and the façade of S. Maria
del Fiore; and in the first gate of the Baptistery, he bequeathed a model of bas-relief in
bronze, which largely influenced the style of masters in the fifteenth century. To overpraise
the simplicity and beauty of design, the purity of feeling, and the technical excellence of
Andrea's bronze-work, would be difficult. Many students will always be found to prefer his
self-restraint and delicacy to the more florid manner of Ghiberti.[70] What we chiefly observe
in this gate is the control exercised by the sister art of painting over his mode of conception
and treatment. If Giovanni Pisano developed the dramatic and emphatic qualities of Gothic sculpture,
Andrea was attracted to its allegories; if Giovanni infused romantic vehemence of feeling into
the frigid classicism of his father, Andrea diverged upon another track of picturesque delineation.
A new sun had now arisen in the heavens of art. This was the sun of Giotto, whose genius, eminently
pictorial, brought the Italians to a true sense of their aesthetical vocation, illuminating
with its brightness the elder and more technically finished craft of the stone-carver. Sculpture,
which in the school of Niccola Pisano had been subordinate to architecture, became a sub-species
of painting in the hands of Andrea.

It was thus, as I have elsewhere stated, that the twofold doom of plastic art in Italy was
accomplished. In order to embody the ideas of Christianity, art had to think more of expression
than of pure form. Expression is the special sphere of painting; and therefore sculpture followed
the lead of the sister art, as soon as painting was strong enough to give that lead, instead
of remaining, as in Greece, the mistress of her own domain. On the deeper reasons for this
subordination of sculpture to painting I have dwelt already, while showing that a large class
of subjects, where physical qualities are comparatively indifferent and of no account, were
forced upon the artist by Christianity.[71] Humility and charity may be found alike in blooming
youth or in ascetic age; nor is it possible to characterize saints and martyrs by those corporeal
characteristics which distinguish a runner from a boxer, or a chaste huntress from a voluptuous
queen of love. Italian sculpture abandoned the presentation of the naked human body as useless.
The emotions written on the face became of more importance than the modelling of the limbs,
and recourse was had to allegorical symbols or emblematic attitudes for the interpretation
of the artist's thought. Andrea Pisano's figure of Hope, raising hands and eyes toward an offered
crown, seems but a repetition of the motive expressed by Giotto in the chiaroscuro frescoes
of the Arena chapel.[72] Owing to similar causes, drapery, which in Greece had served to illustrate
the structure or the movement of the body it clothed, was used by the Italian sculptors to
conceal the limbs, and to enhance by flowing skirt or sinuous fold or agitated scarf some quality
of the emotions. The result was that sculpture assumed a place subordinate to painting, and
that the masterpieces of the early Italian carvers are chiefly bas-reliefs--pictures in bronze
or marble.[73]

In a like degree, though not for the same reason, sculpture in Italy remained subordinate to
architecture, until such time as the neo-Hellenism of the full Renaissance produced a crowd
of pseudo-classic statues, destined to take their places--not in churches, but in the courtyards
of palaces and on the open squares of cities. The cause of this fact is not far to seek. In
ancient Greece the temple had been erected for the god, and the statue dwelt within the cella
like a master in his house. Christianity forbade an image of the living God; consequently the
Church had another object than to roof the statue of a deity. It was the meeting-place of a
congregation bent on worshipping Him who dwells not in houses made with hands, and whom the
heaven of heavens cannot contain. The vast spaces and aërial arcades of mediaeval architecture
had their meaning in relation to the mystic apprehension of an unseen power. It followed of
necessity that the carved work destined to decorate a Christian temple could never be the main
feature of the building. It existed for the Church, and not the Church for it.[74]

Through Andrea Pisano the style of Niccola was extended to Venice. There is reason to believe
that he instructed Filippo Calendario, to whom we should ascribe the sculptured corners of
the Ducal Palace. Venice, however, invariably exercised her own controlling influence over
the arts of aliens; so we find a larger, freer, richer, and more mundane treatment in these
splendid carvings than in aught produced by Pisan workmen for their native towns of Tuscany.

Nino, the sculptor of the "Madonna della Rosa," the chief ornament of the Spina chapel, and
Tommaso, both sons of Andrea da Pontadera, together with Giovanni Balduccio of Pisa, continued
the traditions of the school founded by Niccola. Balduccio, invited by Azzo Visconti to Milan,
carved the shrine of S. Peter Martyr in the church of S. Eustorgio, and impressed his style
on Matteo da Campione, the sculptor of the shrine of S. Augustine at Pavia.[75] These facts,
though briefly stated, are not without significance. Travellers who have visited the churches
of Pavia and Milan, after studying the shrine, or arca as Italians call it, of S. Dominic at
Bologna, must have noticed the ascendency of Pisan style in these three Lombard towns, and
have felt how widely Niccola's creative genius was exercised. Traces of the same influence
may perhaps be observed in the tombs of the Scaligers at Verona.[76]

The most eminent pupil of Andrea Pisano, however, was a Florentine--the great Andrea Arcagnuolo
di Cione, commonly known as Orcagna. This man, like the more illustrious Giotto, was one among
the earliest of those comprehensive, many-sided natures produced by Florence for her everlasting
glory. He studied the goldsmith's craft under his father, Cione, passing the years of his apprenticeship,
like other Tuscan artists, in the technical details of an industry that then supplied the strictest
method of design. With his brother, Bernardo, he practised painting. Like Giotto, he was no
mean poet;[77] and like all the higher craftsmen of his age, he was an architect. Though the
church of Orsammichele owes its present form to Taddeo Gaddi, Orcagna, as capo maëstro after
Gaddi's death, completed the structure; and though the Loggia de' Lanzi, long ascribed to him
by writers upon architecture, is now known to be the work of Benci di Cione, yet Orcagna's
Loggia del Bigallo, more modest but not less beautiful, prepared the way for its construction.
Of his genius as a painter, proved by the frescoes in the Strozzi chapel, I shall have to speak
hereafter. As a sculptor he is best known through the tabernacle of Orsammichele, built to
enshrine the picture of the Madonna by Ugolino da Siena.[78]

In this monument Orcagna employed carved bas-reliefs and statuettes, intaglios and mosaics,
incrustations of agates, enamels, and gilded glass patterns, with a sense of harmony so refined,
and a mastery over each kind of workmanship so perfect, that the whole tabernacle is an epitome
of the minor arts of mediaeval Italy. The subordination of sculpture to architectural effect
is noticeable; and the Giottesque influence appears even more strongly here than in the gate
of Andrea Pisano. This influence Orcagna received indirectly through his master in stone carving;
it formed, indeed, the motive force of figurative art during his lifetime. The subjects of
the "Annunciation," the "Nativity," the "Marriage of the Virgin," and the "Adoration of the
Three Kings," framed in octagonal mouldings at the base of the tabernacle, illustrate the domination
of a spirit distinct both from the neo-Romanism of Niccola and the Gothicism of Giovanni Pisano.
That spirit is Florentine in a general sense, and specifically Giottesque. Charity, again,
with a flaming heart in her hand, crowned with a flaming brazier, and suckling a child, is
Giottesque not only in allegorical conception but also in choice of type and treatment of drapery.

While admiring the tabernacle of Orsammichele, we are reminded that Orcagna was a goldsmith
to begin with, and a painter. Sculpture he practised as an accessory. What the artists of Florence
gained in delicacy of execution, accuracy of modelling, and precision of design by their apprenticeship
to the goldsmith's trade, was hardly perhaps sufficient to compensate for loss of training
in a larger style. It was difficult, we fancy, for men so educated to conceive the higher purposes
of sculpture. Contented with elaborate workmanship and beauty of detail, they failed to attain
to such independence of treatment as may be reached by sculptors who do not carry to their
work the preconceptions of a narrower handicraft. Thus even Orcagna's masterpiece may strike
us not as the plaything of a Pheidian genius condescending for once to "breathe through silver,"
but of a consummate goldsmith taxing the resources of his craft to form a monumental jewel.[79]

The façade of Orvieto was the final achievement of the first or architectural period of Italian
sculpture. Giotto, Andrea Pisano, and Orcagna, formed the transition to the second period.
To find one characteristic title for the style of the fifteenth century is not easy, since
it was marked by many distinct peculiarities. If, however, we choose to call it pictorial,
we shall sufficiently mark the quality of some eminent masters, and keep in view the supremacy
of painting at this epoch. A great public enterprise at Florence brings together in honourable
rivalry the chief craftsmen of the new age, and marks the advent of the Renaissance. When the
Signory, in concert with the Arte de' Mercanti, decided to complete the bronze gates of the
Baptistery in the first year of the fifteenth century, they issued a manifesto inviting the
sculptors of Italy to prepare designs for competition. Their call was answered by Giacomo della
Quercia of Siena, by Filippo Brunelleschi and Lorenzo di Cino Ghiberti of Florence, and by
two other Tuscan artists of less note. The young Donatello, aged sixteen, is said to have been
consulted as to the rival merits of the proofs submitted to the judges. Thus the four great
masters of Tuscan art in its prime met before the Florentine Baptistery.[80] Giacomo della
Quercia was excluded from the competition at an early stage; but the umpires wavered long between
Ghiberti and Brunelleschi, until the latter, with notable generosity, feeling the superiority
of his rival, and conscious perhaps that his own laurels were to be gathered in the field of
architecture, withdrew his claim. In 1403, Ghiberti received the commission for the first of
the two remaining gates. He afterwards obtained the second; and as they were not finished until
1452, the better part of his lifetime was spent upon them. He received in all a sum of 30,798
golden florins for his labour and the cost of the material employed.

The trial-pieces prepared by Brunelleschi and Ghiberti are now preserved in the Bargello.[81]
Their subject is the "Sacrifice of Isaac;" and a comparison of the two leaves no doubt of Ghiberti's
superiority. The faults of Brunelleschi's model are want of repose and absence of composition.
Abraham rushes in a frenzy of murderous agitation at his son, who writhes beneath the knife
already at his throat. The angel swoops from heaven with extended arms, reaching forth one
hand to show the ram to Abraham, and clasping the patriarch's wrist with the other. The ram
meanwhile is scratching his nose with his near hind leg; one of the servants is taking a thorn
from his foot, while the other fills a cup from the stream at which the ass is drinking. Thus
each figure has a separate uneasy action. Those critics who contend that the unrest of sixteenth-century
sculpture was due to changes in artistic and religious feeling wrought by the Renaissance,
would do well to examine this plate, and see how much account must be taken of the artist's
temperament in forming their opinion. Brunelleschi adhered to the style and taste of the fifteenth
century at its commencement; but the too fervid quality of his character impaired his work
as a sculptor. Ghiberti, on the other hand, translated the calm of his harmonious nature into
his composition. The angel leans from heaven and points to the ram, which is seated quietly
and out of sight of the main actors. Isaac kneels in the attitude of a submissive victim, though
his head is turned aside, as if attracted by the rush of pinions through the air; while Abraham
has but just lifted his hand, and the sacrifice is only suggested as a possibility by the naked
knife. The two servants are grouped below in conversation, one on each side of the browsing
ass. This power of telling a story plainly, but without dramatic vehemence; of eliminating
the painful details of the subject, and combining its chief motives into one agreeable whole,
gave peculiar charm to Ghiberti's manner. It marked him as an artist distinguished by good taste.

How Delia Quercia treated the "Sacrifice of Isaac" we do not know. His bas-reliefs upon the
façade of S. Petronio at Bologna, and round the font of S. John's Chapel in the cathedral of
Siena, enable us, however, to compare his style with that of Ghiberti in the handling of a
subject common to both, the "Creation of Eve."[82] There is no doubt but that Della Quercia
was a formidable rival. Had the gates of the Baptistery been entrusted to his execution, we
might have possessed a masterpiece of more heroic style. While smoothness and an almost voluptuous
suavity of outline distinguish Ghiberti's naked Eve, gliding upheld by angels from the side
of Adam at her Maker's bidding, Della Quercia's group, by the concentration of robust and rugged
power, anticipates the style of Michael Angelo. Ghiberti treats the subject pictorially, placing
his figures in a landscape, and lavishing attendant angels. Della Quercia, in obedience to
the stricter laws of sculpture, restrains his composition to the three chief persons, and brings
them into close connection. While Adam reclines asleep in a beautiful and highly studied attitude,
Eve has just stepped forth behind him, and God stands robed in massive drapery, raising His
hand as though to draw her into life. There is, perhaps, an excess of dramatic action in the
lifted right leg of Eve, and too much of pantomimic language in the expressive hands of Eve
and her Creator. The robe, again, in its voluminous and snaky coils, and the triangular nimbus
of the Deity, convey an effect of heaviness rather than of majesty. Yet we feel, while studying
this composition, that it is a noble and original attempt, falling but little short of supreme
accomplishment. Without this antecedent sketch, Michael Angelo might not have matured the most
complete of all his designs in the Sistine Chapel. The similarity between Delia Quercia's bas-relief
and Buonarroti's fresco of Eve is incontestable. The young Florentine, while an exile in Bologna,
and engaged upon the shrine of S. Dominic, must have spent hours of study before the sculptures
of S. Petronio; so that this seed of Della Quercia's sowing bore after many years the fruit
of world-renowned achievement in Rome.

Two other memorable works of Della Quercia must be parenthetically mentioned. These are the
Fonte Gaja on the public square of Siena, now unhappily restored, and the portrait of Ilaria
del Carretto on her tomb in the cathedral of Lucca. The latter has long been dear to English
students of Italian art through words inimitable for their strength of sympathetic criticism.[83]

Ghiberti was brought up as a goldsmith by his stepfather, and it is said that while a youth
he spent much of his leisure in modelling portraits and casting imitations of antique gems
and coins for his friends. At the same time he practised painting. We find him employed in
decorating a palace at Rimini for Carlo Malatesta, when his stepfather recalled him to Florence,
in order that he might compete for the gate of the Baptistery. It is probable that from this
early training Ghiberti derived the delicacy of style and smoothness of execution that are
reckoned among the chief merits of his work. He also developed a manner more pictorial than
sculpturesque, which justifies our calling him a painter in bronze. When Sir Joshua Reynolds
remarked, "Ghiberti's landscape and buildings occupied so large a portion of the compartments,
that the figures remained but secondary objects,"[84] his criticism might fairly have been
taxed with some injustice even to the second of the two gates. Yet, though exaggerated in severity,
his words convey a truth important for the understanding of this period of Italian art.

The first gate may be cited as the supreme achievement of bronze-casting in the Tuscan prime.
In the second, by the introduction of elaborate landscapes and the massing together of figures
arranged in multitudes at three and sometimes four distances, Ghiberti overstepped the limits
that separate sculpture from painting. Having learned perspective from Brunelleschi, he was
eager to apply this new science to his own craft, not discerning that it has no place in noble
bas-relief. He therefore abandoned the classical and the early Tuscan tradition, whereby reliefs,
whether high or low, are strictly restrained to figures arranged in line or grouped together
without accessories. Instead of painting frescoes, he set himself to model in bronze whole
compositions that might have been expressed with propriety in colour. The point of Sir Joshua's
criticism, therefore, is that Ghiberti's practice of distributing figures on a small scale
in spacious landscape framework was at variance with the severity of sculptural treatment.
The pernicious effect of his example may be traced in much Florentine work of the mid Renaissance
period which passed for supremely clever when it was produced. What the unique genius of Ghiberti
made not merely pardonable but even admirable, became under other hands no less repulsive than
the transference of pictorial effects to painted glass.[85]

That Ghiberti was not a great sculptor of statues is proved by his work at Orsammichele. He
was no architect, as we know from his incompetence to do more than impede Brunelleschi in the
building of the dome. He came into the world to create a new and inimitable style of hybrid
beauty in those gates of Paradise. His susceptibility to the first influences of the classical
revival deserves notice here, since it shows to what an extent a devotee of Greek art in the
fifteenth century could worship the relics of antiquity without passing over into imitation.
When the "Hermaphrodite" was discovered in the vineyard of S. Celso, Ghiberti's admiration
found vent in exclamations like the following: "No tongue could describe the learning and art
displayed in it, or do justice to its masterly style." Another antique, found near Florence,
must, he conjectures, have been hidden out of harm's way by "some gentle spirit in the early
days of Christianity." "The touch only," he adds, "can discover its beauties, which escape
the sense of sight in any light."[86] It would be impossible to express a reverential love
of ancient art more tenderly than is done in these sentences. So intense was Ghiberti's passion
for the Greeks, that he rejected Christian chronology and reckoned by Olympiads--a system that
has thrown obscurity over his otherwise precious notes of Tuscan artists. In spite of this
devotion, he never appears to have set himself consciously to reproduce the style of Greek
sculpture, or to have set forth Hellenic ideas. He remained unaffectedly natural, and in a
true sense Christian. The paganism of the Renaissance is a phrase with no more meaning for
him than for that still more delicate Florentine spirit, Luca della Robbia; and if his works
are classical, they are so only in Goethe's sense, when he pronounced, "the point is for a
work to be thoroughly good, and then it is sure to be classical."

One great advantage of the early days of the Renaissance over the latter was this, that pseudo-paganism
and pedantry had not as yet distorted the judgment or misdirected the aims of artists. Contact
with the antique world served only to stimulate original endeavour, by leading the student
back to the fountain of all excellence in nature, and by exhibiting types of perfection in
technical processes. To ape the sculptors of Antinous, or to bring to life again the gods who
died with Pan, was not yet longed for. Of the impunity with which a sculptor in that period
could submit his genius to the service and the study of ancient art without sacrificing individuality,
Donatello furnishes a still more illustrious example than Ghiberti. Early in his youth Donatello
journeyed with Brunelleschi to Rome, in order to acquaint himself with the monuments then extant.
How thoroughly he comprehended the classic spirit is proved by the bronze patera wrought for
his patron Ruberto Martelli, and by the frieze of the triumphant Bacchus.[87] Yet the great
achievements of his genius were Christian in their sentiment and realistic in their style.
The bronze "Magdalen" of the Florentine Baptistery and the bronze "Baptist" of the Duomo at
Siena[88] are executed with an unrelenting materialism, not alien indeed to the sincerity of
classic art, but divergent from antique tradition, inasmuch as the ideas of repentant and prophetic
asceticism had no place in Greek mythology.

Donatello, with the uncompromising candour of an artist bent on marking character, felt that
he was bound to seize the very pith and kernel of his subject. If a Magdalen were demanded
of him, he would not condescend to model a Venus and then place a book and skull upon a rock
beside her; nor did he imagine that the bloom and beauty of a laughing Faun were fitting attributes
for the preacher of repentance. It remained for later artists, intoxicated with antique loveliness
and corroded with worldly scepticism, to reproduce the outward semblance of Greek deities under
the pretence of setting forth the myths of Christianity. Such compromise had not occurred to
Donatello. The motive of his art was clearly apprehended, his method was sincere; certain phases
of profound emotion had to be represented with the physical characteristics proper to them.
The result, ugly and painful as it may sometimes be, was really more concordant with the spirit
of Greek method than Lionardo's "John" or Correggio's "Magdalen." That is to say, it was straightforward
and truthful; whereas the strange caprices of the later Renaissance too often betrayed a double
mind, disloyal alike to paganism and to Christianity, in their effort to combine divergent
forces. It may still be argued that such conceptions as sorrow for sin and mortification of
the flesh, unflinchingly portrayed by haggard gauntness in the saints of Donatello, are unfit
for sculpturesque expression.

A more felicitous embodiment of modern feeling was achieved by Donatello in "S. George" and
"David." The former is a marble statue placed upon the north wall of Orsammichele; the latter
is a bronze, cast for Cosimo de' Medici, and now exhibited in the Bargello.[89] Without striving
to idealise his models, the sculptor has expressed in both the Christian conception of heroism,
fearless in the face of danger, and sustained by faith. The naked beauty of the boy David and
the mailed manhood of S. George are raised to a spiritual region by the type of feature and
the pose of body selected to interpret their animating impulse. These are no mere portraits
of wrestlers, such, as peopled the groves of Altis at Olympia, no ideals of physical strength
translated into brass and marble, like the "Hercules" of Naples or the Vatican. The one is
a Christian soldier ready to engage Apollyon in battle to the death; the other the boy-hero
of a marvellous romance. The body in both is but the shrine of an indwelling soul, the instrument
and agent of a faith-directed will; and the crown of their conflict is no wreath of laurel
or of parsley. In other words, the value of S. George and David to the sculptor lay not in
their strength and youthful beauty--though he has endowed them with these excellent gifts--so
much as in their significance for the eternal struggle of the soul with evil. The same power
of expressing Christian sentiment in a form of perfect beauty, transcending the Greek type
by profounder suggestion of feeling, is illustrated in the well-known low-relief of an angel's
head in profile, technically one of Donatello's most masterly productions.[90]

It is no part of my present purpose to enumerate the many works of Donatello in marble and
bronze; yet some allusion to their number and variety is necessary in order to show how widely
his influence was diffused through Italy. In the monuments of Pope John XXIII., of Cardinal
Brancacci, and of Bartolommeo Aragazzi, he subordinated his genius to the treatment of sepulchral
and biographical subjects according to time-honoured Tuscan usage. They were severally placed
in Florence, Naples, and Montepulciano. For the cathedral of Prato he executed bas-reliefs
of dancing boys; a similar series, intended for the balustrades of the organ in S. Maria del
Fiore, is now preserved in the Bargello museum. The exultation of movement has never been expressed
in stone with more fidelity to the strict rules of plastic art. For his friend and patron,
Cosimo de' Medici, he cast in bronze the group of "Judith and Holofernes"--a work that illustrates
the clumsiness of realistic treatment, and deserves to be remembered chiefly for its strange
fortunes. When the Medici fled from Florence in 1494, their palace was sacked; the new republic
took possession of Donatello's "Judith," and placed it on a pedestal before the gate of the
Palazzo Vecchio, with this inscription, ominous to would-be despots: Exemplum salutis publicae
cives posuere. MCCCCXCV. It now stands near Cellini's "Perseus" under the Loggia de' Lanzi.
For the pulpits of S. Lorenzo, Donatello made designs of intricate bronze bas-reliefs, which
were afterwards completed by his pupil Bertoldo. These, though better known to travellers,
are less excellent than the reliefs in bronze wrought by Donatello's own hand for the church
of S. Anthony at Padua.[91] To that city he was called in 1451, in order that he might model
the equestrian statue of Gattamelata. It still stands on the Piazza, a masterpiece of scientific
bronze-founding, the first great portrait of a general on horseback since the days of Rome.[92]
At Padua, in the hall of the Palazzo della Ragione, is also preserved the wooden horse, which
is said to have been constructed by the sculptor for the noble house of Capodilista. These
two examples of equestrian modelling marked an epoch in Italian statuary.

When Donato di Nicolo di Betto Bardi, called Donatello because men loved his sweet and cheerful
temper, died in 1466 at the age of eighty, the brightest light of Italian sculpture in its
most promising period was extinguished. Donatello's influence, felt far and wide through Italy,
was of inestimable value in correcting the false direction toward pictorial sculpture which
Ghiberti, had he flourished alone at Florence, might have given to the art. His style was always
eminently masculine. However tastes may differ about the positive merits of his several works,
there can be no doubt that the principles of sincerity, truth to nature, and technical accuracy
they illustrate, were all-important in an age that lent itself too readily to the caprices
of the fancy and the puerilities of florid taste. To regret that Donatello lacked Ghiberti's
exquisite sense of beauty, is tantamount to wishing that two of the greatest artists of the
world had made one man between them.

Donatello did not, in the strict sense of the term, found a school.[93] Andrea Verocchio, goldsmith,
painter, and worker in bronze, was the most distinguished of his pupils. To all the arts he
practised, Verocchio applied limited powers, a meagre manner, and a prosaic mind. Yet few men
have exercised at a very critical moment a more decided influence. The mere fact that he numbered
Lionardo da Vinci, Lorenzo di Credi, and Pietro Perugino among his scholars, proves the esteem
of his contemporaries; and when we have observed that the type of face selected by Lionardo
and transmitted to his followers, appears also in the pictures of Lorenzo di Credi and is first
found in the "David" of Verocchio, we have a right to affirm that the master of these men was
an artist of creative genius as well as a careful workman. Florence still points with pride
to the "Incredulity of Thomas" on the eastern wall of Orsammichele, to the "Boy and Dolphin"
in the court of the Palazzo Vecchio, and to the "David" of this sculptor: but the first is
spoiled by heaviness and angularity of drapery; the second, though fanciful and marked by fluttering
movement, is but a caprice; the third outdoes the hardest work of Donatello by its realism.
Verocchio's "David," a lad of some seventeen years, has the lean, veined arms of a stone-hewer
or gold-beater. As a faithful portrait of the first Florentine prentice who came to hand, this
statue might have merit but for the awkward cuirass and kilt that partly drape the figure.

The name of Verocchio is best known to the world through the equestrian statue of Bartolommeo
Colleoni. When this great Condottiere, the last surviving general trained by Braccio da Montone,
died in 1475, he bequeathed a large portion of his wealth to Venice, on condition that his
statue on horseback should be erected in the Piazza di S. Marco. Colleoni, having long held
the bâton of the Republic, desired that after death his portrait, in his habit as he lived,
should continue to look down on the scene of his old splendour. By an ingenious quibble the
Senators adhered to the letter of his will without infringing a law that forbade them to charge
the square of S. Mark with monuments. They ruled that the piazza in front of the Scuola di
S. Marco, better known as the Campo di S. Zanipolo, might be chosen as the site of Colleoni's
statue, and to Andrea Verocchio was given the commission for its erection.

Andrea died in 1488 before the model for the horse was finished. The work was completed, and
the pedestal was supplied by Alessandro Leopardi. To Verocchio, profiting by the example of
Donatello's "Gattamelata," must be assigned the general conception of this statue; but the
breath of life that animates both horse and rider, the richness of detail that enhances the
massive grandeur of the group, and the fiery spirit of its style of execution were due to the
Venetian genius of Leopardi. Verocchio alone produced nothing so truly magnificent. This joint
creation of Florentine science and Venetian fervour is one of the most precious monuments of
the Renaissance. From it we learn what the men who fought the bloodless battles of the commonwealths,
and who aspired to principality, were like. "He was tall," writes a biographer of Colleoni,[94]
"of erect and well-knit figure, and of well-proportioned limbs. His complexion tended rather
to brown, marked withal by bright and sanguine flesh-tints. He had black eyes; their brilliancy
was vivid, their gaze terrible and penetrating. In the outline of his nose and in all his features
he displayed a manly nobleness combined with goodness and prudence." Better phrases cannot
be chosen to describe his statue.

While admiring this masterpiece and dwelling on its royal style, we are led to deplore most
bitterly the loss of the third equestrian statue of the Renaissance. Nothing now remains but
a few technical studies made by Lionardo da Vinci for his portrait of Francesco Sforza. The
two elaborate models he constructed and the majority of his minute designs have been destroyed.
He intended, we are told, to represent the first Duke of the Sforza dynasty on his charger,
trampling the body of a prostrate and just conquered enemy. Rubens' transcript from the "Battle
of the Standard," enables us to comprehend to some extent how Lionardo might have treated this
motive. The severe and cautious style of Donatello, after gaining freedom and fervour from
Leopardi, was adapted to the ideal presentation of dramatic passion by Lionardo. Thus Gattamelata,
Colleoni, and Francesco Sforza would, through their statues, have marked three distinct phases
in the growth of art. The final effort of Italian sculpture to express human activity in the
person of a mounted warrior has perished. In this sphere we possess nothing which, like the
tombs of S. Lorenzo in relation to sepulchral statuary, completes a series of development.

If Donatello founded no school, this was far more the case with Ghiberti. His supposed pupil,
Antonio del Pollajuolo, showed no sign of Ghiberti's influence, but struck out for himself
a style distinguished by almost brutal energy and bizarre realism--characteristics the very
opposite to those of his master. If the bronze relief of the "Crucifixion" in the Bargello
be really Pollajuolo's, we may even trace a leaning to Verocchio in his manner. The emphatic
passion of the women recalls the group of mourners round the death-bed of Selvaggia Tornabuoni
in Verocchio's celebrated bas-relief. Pollajuolo, like so many Florentine artists, was a goldsmith,
a painter, and a worker in niello, before he took to sculpture. As a goldsmith he is said to
have surpassed all his contemporaries, and his mastery over this art influenced his style in
general. What we chiefly notice, however, in his choice of subjects is a frenzy of murderous
enthusiasm, a grimness of imagination, rare among Italian artists. The picture in the Uffizzi
of "Hercules and Antaeus" and the well-known engraving of naked men fighting a series of savage
duels in a wood, might be chosen as emphatic illustrations of his favourite motives. The fiercest
emotions of the Renaissance find expression in the clenched teeth, strained muscles, knotted
brows, and tense nerves, depicted by Pollajuolo with eccentric energy. We seem to be assisting
at some of those combats a steccato chiuso wherein Sixtus IV. delighted, or to have before
our eyes a fray between Crocensi and Vallensi in the streets of Rome.[95] The same remarks
apply to the terra-cotta relief by Pollajuolo in the South Kensington Museum. This piece displays
the struggles of twelve naked men, divided into six pairs of combatants. Two of the couples
hold short chains with the left hand, and seek to stab each other with the right. In the case
of another two couples the fight is over, and the victor is insulting his fallen foe. In each
of the remaining pairs one gladiator is on the point of yielding to his adversary. There are
thus three several moments of duel to the death, each illustrated by two couples. The mathematical
distribution of these dreadful groups gives an effect of frozen passion; while the vigorous
workmanship displays not only an enthusiasm for muscular anatomy, but a real sympathy with
blood-fury in the artist.

There was, therefore, a certain propriety in the choice of Pollajuolo to cast the sepulchre
of Sixtus IV. in bronze at Rome. The best judges complain, not without reason, that the allegories
surrounding this tomb are exaggerated and affected in style; yet the dead Pope, stretched in
pomp upon his bier, commands more than merely historical interest; while the figures, seated
as guardians round the old man, terrible in death, communicate an impression of monumental
majesty. Criticised in detail, each separate figure may be faulty. The composition, as a whole,
is picturesque and grandiose. The same can scarcely be said about the tomb of Innocent VIII.,
erected by Antonio and his brother Piero del Pollajuolo. While it perpetuates the memory of
an uninteresting Pontiff, it has but little, as a work of art, to recommend it. The Pollajuoli
were not great sculptors. In the history of Italian art they deserve a place, because of the
vivid personality impressed upon some portions of their work. Few draughtsmen carried the study
of muscular anatomy so far as Antonio.[96]

Luca della Robbia, whose life embraced the first eighty years of the fifteenth century, offers
in many important respects a contrast to his contemporaries Ghiberti and Donatello, and still
more to their immediate followers. He made his art as true to life as it is possible to be,
without the rugged realism of Donatello or the somewhat effeminate graces of Ghiberti. The
charm of his work is never impaired by scientific mannerism--that stumbling-block to critics
like De Stendhal in the art of Florence; nor does it suffer from the picturesqueness of a sentimental
style. How to render the beauty of nature in her most delightful moments--taking us with him
into the holiest of holies, and handling the sacred vessels with a child's confiding boldness--was
a secret known to Luca della Robbia alone. We may well find food for meditation in the innocent
and cheerful inspiration of this man, whose lifetime coincided with a period of sordid passions
and debased ambition in the Church and States of Italy.

Luca was apprenticed in his youth to a goldsmith; but of what he wrought before the age of
forty-five, we know but little.[97] At that time his faculty had attained full maturity, and
he produced the groups of dancing children and choristers intended for the organ gallery of
the Duomo. Wholly free from affectation, and depending for effect upon no merely decorative
detail, these bas-reliefs deserve the praise bestowed by Dante on the sculpture seen in Purgatory:[98]--

    Dinanzi a noi pareva si verace,
    Quivi intagliato in un atto soave,
    Che non sembrava immagine che tace.

Movement has never been suggested in stone with less exaggeration, nor have marble lips been
made to utter sweeter and more varied music. Luca's true perception of the limits to be observed
in sculpture, appears most eminently in the glazed terra-cotta work by which he is best known.
An ordinary artist might have found the temptation to aim at showy and pictorial effects in
this material overwhelming. Luca restrained himself to pure white on pale blue, and preserved
an exquisite simplicity of line in all his compositions. There is an almost unearthly beauty
in the profiles of his Madonnas, a tempered sweetness in the modulation of their drapery and
attitude, that prove complete mastery in the art of rendering evanescent moments of expression,
the most fragile subtleties of the emotions that can stir a tranquil spirit. Andrea della Robbia,
the nephew of Luca, with his four sons, Giovanni, Luca, Ambrogio, and Girolamo, continued to
manufacture the glazed earthenware of Luca's invention. These men, though excellent artificers,
lacked the fine taste of their teacher. Coarser colours were introduced; the eye was dazzled
with variety; but the power of speaking to the soul as Luca spoke was lost.[99]

After the Della Robbias, this is the place to mention Agostino di Gucci or di Duccio,[100]
a sculptor who handled terra-cotta somewhat in the manner of Donatello's flat-relief, introducing
more richness of detail and aiming at more passion than Luca's taste permitted. For the oratory
of S. Bernardino at Perugia he designed the façade partly in stone and partly in baked clay--crowded
with figures, flying, singing, playing upon instruments of music, with waving draperies and
windy hair and the ecstasy of movement in their delicately modelled limbs. If nothing else
remained of Agostino's workmanship, this façade alone would place him in the first rank of
contemporary artists. He owed something, perhaps, to his material; for terra-cotta has the
charm of improvisation. The hand, obedient to the brain, has made it in one moment what it
is, and no slow hours of labour at the stone have dulled the first caprice of the creative
fancy. Work, therefore, which, if translated into marble, might have left our sympathy unstirred,
affects us with keen pleasure in the mould of plastic clay. What prodigality of thought and
invention has been lavished on the terra-cotta models of unknown Italian artists! What forms
and faces, beautiful as shapes of dreams, and, like dreams, so airy that we think they will
take flight and vanish, lean to greet us from cloisters and palace fronts in Lombardy! To catalogue
their multitude would be impossible. It is enough to select one instance out of many; this
shall be taken from the chapel of S. Peter Martyr in S. Eustorgio at Milan. High up around
the cupola runs a frieze of angels, singing together and dancing with joined hands, while bells
composed of fruits and flowers hang down between them. Each angel is an individual shape of
joy; the soul in each moves to its own deep melody, but the music made of all is one. Their
raiment flutters, the bells chime; the chorus of their gladness falls like voices through a
star-lit heaven, half-heard in dreams and everlastingly remembered.

Four sculptors, the younger contemporaries of Luca della Robbia, and marked by certain common
qualities, demand attention next. The charm of manner they possess in common, can scarcely
he defined except by similes. The innocence of childhood, the melody of a lute or song-bird
as distinguished from the music of an orchestra, the rathe tints of early dawn, cheerful light
on shallow streams, the serenity of a simple and untainted nature that has never known the
world--many such images occur to the mind while thinking of the sculpture of these men. To
charge them with insipidity, immaturity, and monotony, would be to mistake the force of genius
and skill displayed by them. We should rather assume that they confined themselves to certain
types of tranquil beauty, without caring to realise more obviously striking effects, and that
this was their way of meeting the requirements of sculpture considered as a Christian art.
The melody of their design, meanwhile, is like the purest song-music of Pergolese or Salvator
Rosa, unapproachably perfect in simple outline, and inexhaustibly refreshing.

Though it is possible to characterise the style of these sculptors by some common qualities
observable in their work, it should rather be the aim of criticism to point out their differences.
Antonio Rossellino, for example, might be distinguished by his leaning toward the manner of
Ghiberti, whose landscape backgrounds he has adopted in the circular medallions of his monumental
sculpture. A fine perception of the poetic capabilities of Christian art is displayed in Rossellino's
idyllic treatment of the Nativity--the adoration of the shepherds, the hush of reverential
stillness in the worship Mary pays her infant son.[101] To the qualities of sweetness and tranquillity
rare dignity is added in the monument of the young Cardinal di Portogallo.[102] The sublimity
of the slumber that is death has never been more nobly and feelingly portrayed than in the
supine figure and sleeping features of this most beautiful young man, who lies watched by angels
beneath a heavy-curtained canopy. The genii of eternal repose modelled by Greek sculptors are
twin-brothers of Love, on whom perpetual slumber has descended amid poppy-fields by Lethe's
stream. The turmoil of the world is over for them; they will never wake again; they do not
even dream. Sleep is the only power that still has life in them. But the Christian cannot thus
conceive the mystery of the soul "fallen on sleep." His art must suggest a time of waiting
and a time of waking; and this it does partly through the ministration of attendant angels,
who would not be standing there on guard if the clay-cold corpse had no futurity, partly by
breathing upon the limbs and visage of the dead a spirit as of life suspended for a while.
Thus the soul herself is imaged in the marble "most sweetly slumbering in the gates of dreams."

What Vespasiano tells us of this cardinal, born of the royal house of Portugal, adds the virtue
of sincerity to Rossellino's work, proving there is no flattery of the dead man in his sculpture.[103]
"Among his other admirable virtues," says the biographer, "Messer Jacopo di Portogallo determined
to preserve his virginity, though he was beautiful above all others of his age. Consequently
he avoided all things that might prove impediments to his vow, such as free discourse, the
society of women, balls, and songs. In this mortal flesh he lived as though he had been free
from it--the life, we may say, rather of an angel than a man. And if his biography were written
from his childhood to his death, it would be not only an ensample, but confusion to the world.
Upon his monument the hand was modelled from his own, and the face is very like him, for he
was most lovely in his person, but still more in his soul."

While contemplating this monument of the young cardinal, we feel that the Italians of that
age understood sepulchral sculpture far better than their immediate successors. They knew how
to carve the very soul, according to the lines which our Webster, a keen observer of all things
relating to the grave and death, has put into Jolenta's lips:--

                         But indeed,
    If ever I would have mine drawn to the life,
    I would have a painter steal it at such time
    I were devoutly kneeling at my prayers;
    There is then a heavenly beauty in't; the soul
    Moves in the superficies.

The same Webster condemns that evil custom of aping life and movement on the monuments of dead
men, which began to obtain when the motives of pure repose had been exhausted. "Why," asks
the Duchess of Malfi, "do we grow fantastical in our death-bed? Do we affect fashion in the
grave?" "Most ambitiously," answers Bosola; "princes' images on their tombs do not lie as they
were wont, seeming to pray up to heaven; but with their hands under their cheeks (as if they
died of the toothache): they are not carved with their eyes fixed upon the stars; but, as their
minds were wholly bent upon the world, the self-same way they seem to turn their faces." A
more trenchant criticism than this could hardly have been pronounced upon Andrea Contucci di
Monte Sansavino's tombs of Ascanio Sforza and Girolamo della Rovere, if Bosola had been standing
before them in the church of S. Maria del Popolo when he spoke. Were it the function of monumental
sculpture to satirise the dead, or to point out their characteristic faults for the warning
of posterity, then the sepulchres of these worldly cardinals of Sixtus IV.'s creation would
be artistically justified. But the object of art is not this. The idea of death, as conceived
by Christians, has to be portrayed. The repose of the just, the resurrection of the body, and
the coming judgment, afford sufficient scope for treatment of good men and bad alike. Or if
the sculptor have sublime imagination, he may, like Michael Angelo, suggest the alternations
of the day and night, slumber and waking, whereby "our little life is rounded with a sleep."

This digression will hardly be thought superfluous when we reflect how large a part of the
sculptor's energy was spent on tombs in Italy. Matteo Civitali of Lucca was at least Rossellino's
equal in the sculpturesque delineation of spiritual qualities; but the motives he chose for
treatment were more varied. All his work is penetrated with deep, prayerful, intense feeling;
as though the artist's soul, poured forth in ecstasy and adoration, had been given to the marble.
This is especially true of two angels kneeling upon the altar of the Chapel of the Sacrament
in Lucca Cathedral. Civitali, by singular good fortune, was chosen in the best years of his
life to adorn the cathedral of his native city; and it is here, rather than at Genoa, where
much of his sculpture may also be seen, that he deserves to be studied. For the people of Lucca
he designed the Chapel of the Santo Volto--a gem of the purest Renaissance architecture--and
a pulpit in the same style. His most remarkable sculpture is to be found in three monuments:
the tombs of Domenico Bertini and Pietro da Noceto, and the altar of S. Regulus. The last might
be chosen as an epitome of all that is most characteristic in Tuscan sculpture of the earlier
Renaissance. It is built against the wall, and architecturally designed so as to comprehend
a full-length figure of the bishop stretched upon his bier and watched by angels, a group of
Madonna and her child seated above him, a row of standing saints below, and a predella composed
of four delicately finished bas-reliefs. Every part of this complex work is conceived with
spirit and executed with care; and the various elements are so combined as to make one composition,
the body of the saint on his sarcophagus forming the central object of the whole.

To do more than briefly mention the minor sculptors of this group would be impossible. Mino
di Giovanni, called Da Fiesole, was characterised by grace that tended to degenerate into formality.
The tombs in the Abbey of Florence have an almost infantine sweetness of style, which might
be extremely piquant, were it not that Mino pushed this quality in other works to the verge
of mannerism.[104] Their architectural features are the same as those of similar monuments
in Tuscany:--a shallow recess, flanked by Renaissance pilasters, and roofed with a semicircular
arch; within the recess, the full-length figure of the dead man on a marble coffin of antique
design; in the lunette above, a Madonna carved in low relief.[105] Mino's bust of Bishop Salutati
in the cathedral church of Fiesole is a powerful portrait, no less distinguished for vigorous
individuality than consummate workmanship. The waxlike finish of the finely chiselled marble
alone betrays that delicacy which with Mino verged on insipidity. The same faculty of character
delineation is seen in three profiles, now in the Bargello Museum, attributed to Mino. They
represent Frederick Duke of Urbino, Battista Sforza, and Galeazzo Sforza. The relief is very
low, rising at no point more than half an inch above the surface of the ground, but so carefully
modulated as to present a wonderful variety of light and shade, and to render the facial expression
with great vividness.

Desiderio da Settignano, one of Donatello's few scholars, was endowed with the same gift of
exquisite taste as his friend Mino da Fiesole;[106] but his inventive faculty was bolder, and
his genius more robust, in spite of the profuse ornamentation and elaborate finish of his masterpiece,
the tomb of Carlo Marsuppini in S. Croce. The bust he made of Marietta di Palla degli Strozzi
enables us to compare his style in portraiture with that of Mino.[107] It would be hard to
find elsewhere a more captivating combination of womanly sweetness and dignity. We feel, in
looking at these products of the best age of Italian sculpture, that the artists who conceived
them were, in the truest sense of the word, gentle. None but men courteous and unaffected could
have carved a face like that of Marietta Strozzi, breathing the very spirit of urbanity. To
express the most amiable qualities of a living person in a work of art that should suggest
emotional tranquillity by harmonious treatment, and indicate the temperance of a disciplined
nature by self-restraint and moderation of style, and to do this with the highest technical
perfection, was the triumph of fifteenth-century sculpture.

An artist who claims a third place beside Mino and his friend, "il bravo Desider si dolce e
bello,"[108] is Benedetto da Majano. In Benedetto's bas-reliefs at San Gemignano, carved for
the altars of those unlovely Tuscan worthies, S. Fina and S. Bartolo, we find a pictorial treatment
of legendary subjects, proving that he had studied Ghirlandajo's frescoes. The same is true
about his pulpit in S. Croce at Florence, his treatment of the story of S. Savino at Faenza,
and his "Annunciation" in the church of Monte Oliveto at Naples. Benedetto, indeed, may be
said to illustrate the working of Ghiberti's influence by his liberal use of landscape and
architectural backgrounds; but the style is rather Ghirlandajo's than Ghiberti's. If it was
a mistake in the sculptors of that period to subordinate their art to painting, the error,
we feel, was aggravated by the imitation of a manner so prosaic as that of Ghirlandajo. That
Benedetto began life as a tarsiatore may perhaps help to account for his pictorial style in
bas-relief.[109] In estimating his total claim as an artist, we must not forget that he designed
the formidable and splendid Strozzi Palace.

It will be observed that all the sculptors hitherto mentioned have been Tuscans; and this is
due to no mere accident--nor yet to caprice on the part of their historian. Though the other
districts of Italy produced admirable workmen, the direction given to this art proceeded from
Tuscany. Florence, the metropolis of modern culture, determined the course of the aesthetical
Renaissance. Even at Rimini we cannot account for the carvings in low relief, so fanciful,
so delicately wrought, and so profusely scattered over the side chapels of S. Francesco, without
the intervention of two Florentines, Bernardo Ciuffagni and Donatello's pupil Simone; while
in the palace of Urbino we trace some hand not unlike that of Mino da Fiesole at work upon
the mouldings of door and architrave, cornice and high-built chimney.[110] Not only do we thus
find Tuscan craftsmen or their scholars employed on all the great public buildings throughout
Italy; but it also happens that, except in Tuscany, the decoration of churches and palaces
is not unfrequently anonymous.

This does not, however, interfere with the truth that sculpture, like all the arts, assumed
a somewhat different character in each Italian city. The Venetian stone-carvers leaned from
the first to a richer and more passionate style than the Florentine, reproducing the types
of Cima's and Bellini's paintings.[111] Whole families, like the Bregni--classes, like the
Lombardi--schools, like that of Alessandro Leopardi, worked together on the monumental sculpture
of S. Zanipolo. In the tombs of the Doges the old Pisan motive of the curtains (first used
by Arnolfo di Cambio at Orvieto, and afterwards with grand effect by Giovanni Pisano at Perugia)
is expanded into a sumptuous tent-canopy. Pages and genii and mailed heroes take the place
of angels, and the marine details of Roman reliefs are copied in the subordinate decoration.
At Verona the mediaeval tombs of the Scaligers, with their vast chest-like sarcophagi and mounted
warriors, exhibit features markedly different from the monuments of Tuscany; while the mixture
of fresco with sculpture, in monuments like that of the Cavalli in S. Anastasia, and in many
altar-pieces, is at variance with Florentine usage. On the terra-cotta mouldings, so frequent
in Lombard cities, I have already had occasion to touch briefly. They almost invariably display
a feeling for beauty more sensuous, with less of scientific purpose in their naturalism, than
is common in the Tuscan style. Guido Mazzoni of Modena, called Il Modanino, may be mentioned
as the sculptor who freed terra-cotta from its dependence upon architecture, and who modelled
groups of overpowering dramatic realism. His "Pietà," in the Church of Monte Oliveto at Naples,
is valuable, less for its passionate intensity of expression than for the portraits of Pontano,
Sannazzaro, and Alfonso of Aragon.[112] This sub-species of sculpture was freely employed in
North Italy to stimulate devotion, and to impress the people with lively pictures of the Passion.
The Sacro Monte at Varallo, for example, is covered with a multitude of chapels, each one of
which presents some chapter of Bible history dramatically rendered by life-size groups of terra-cotta
figures. Some of these were designed by eminent painters, and executed by clever modellers
in clay. Even now they are scarcely less stirring to the mind of a devout spectator than the
scenes of a mediaeval Mystery may have been.

The Certosa of Pavia, lastly, is the centre of a school of sculpture that has little in common
with the Florentine tradition. Antonio Amadeo[113] and Andrea Fusina, acting in concert with
Ambrogio Borgognone the painter, gave it in the fifteenth century that character of rich and
complex decorative beauty which many generations of artists were destined to continue and complete.
Among the countless sculptors employed upon its marvellous façade Amadeo asserts an individuality
above the rest, which is further manifested in his work in the Cappella Colleoni at Bergamo.
We there learn to know him, not only as an enthusiastic cultivator of the mingled Christian
and pagan manner of the quattrocento, but as an artist in the truest sense of the word sympathetic.
The sepulchral portrait of Medea, daughter of the great Condottiere, has a grace almost beyond
that of Della Quercia's "Ilaria."[114] Much, no doubt, is due to the peculiarly fragile beauty
of the girl herself, who lies asleep with little crisp curls clustering upon her forehead,
and with a string of pearls around her slender throat. But the sensibility to loveliness so
delicate, and the power to render it in marble with so ethereal a touch upon the rigid stone,
belong to the sculptor, and win for him our worship.

The list of fifteenth-century sculptors is almost ended; and already, on the threshold of the
sixteenth, stands the mighty form of Michael Angelo. Andrea Contucci da Sansavino and his pupil
Jacopo Tatti, called also Sansovino, after his master, must, however, next be mentioned as
continuing the Florentine tradition without subservience to the style of Buonarroti. Andrea
da Sansavino was a sculptor in whom for the first time the faults of the mid-Renaissance period
are glaringly apparent. He persistently sacrificed simplicity of composition to decorative
ostentation, and tranquillity of feeling to theatrical effect. The truth of this will be acknowledged
by all who have studied the tombs of the cardinals in S. Maria del Popolo already mentioned,[115]
and the bas-reliefs upon the Santa Casa at Loreto. In technical workmanship Andrea proved himself
an able craftsman, modelling marble with the plasticity of wax, and lavishing patterns of the
most refined invention. Yet the decorative prodigality of this master corresponded to the frigid
and stylistic graces of the neo-Latin poets. It was so much mannerism--adopted without real
passion from the antique, and applied with a rhetorical intention. Those acanthus scrolls and
honeysuckle borders, in spite of their consummate finish, fail to arrest attention, leaving
the soul as unstirred as the Ovidian cadences of Bembo.

Jacopo Tatti was a genius of more distinction. Together with San Gallo and Bramante he studied
the science of architecture in Rome, where he also worked at the restoration of newly discovered
antiques, and cast in bronze a copy of the "Laocoon." Thus equipped with the artistic learning
of his age, he was called in 1523 by the Doge, Andrea Gritti, to Venice. The material pomp
of Venice at this epoch, and the pride of her unrivalled luxury, affected his imagination so
powerfully that his genius, tutored by Florentine and Umbrian masters among the ruins of old
Rome, became at once Venetian. In the history of the Renaissance the names of Titian and Aretino,
themselves acclimatised aliens, are inseparably connected with that of their friend Sansovino.
At Venice he lived until his death in 1570, building the Zecca, the Library, the Scala d'Oro
in the Ducal Palace, and the Loggietta beneath the bell-tower of S. Mark. In all his work he
subordinated sculpture to architecture, and his statuary is conceived in the bravura, manner
of Renaissance paganism. Whatever may be the faults of Sansovino in both arts, it cannot be
denied that he expressed, in a style peculiar to himself, the large voluptuous external life
of Venice at a moment when this city was the Paris or the Corinth of Renaissance Europe. At
the same time, the shallowness of Sansovino's inspiration as a sculptor is patent in his masterpieces
of parade--the "Neptune" and the "Mars," guarding the Scala d'Oro. Separated from the architecture
of the court and staircase, they are insignificant in spite of their colossal scale. In their
place they add a haughty grandeur, by the contrast which their flowing forms and arrogant attitudes
present to the severer lines of the construction. But they are devoid of artistic sincerity,
and occupy the same relation to true sculpture as flourishes of rhetoric, however brilliant,
to poetry embodying deep thought or passion. At first sight they impose: on further acquaintance
we find them chiefly interesting as illustrations of a potent civic life upon the wane, gorgeous
in its decay.

Sansovino was a first-rate craftsman. The most finished specimen of his skill is the bronze
door of the Sacristy of S. Marco, upon which he is said to have worked through twenty years.
Portraits of the sculptor, Titian, and Pietro Aretino are introduced into the decorative border.
These heads start from the surface of the gate with astonishing vivacity. That Aretino should
thus daily assist in effigy at the procession of priests bearing the sacred emblems from the
sacristy to the high altar of S. Mark, is one of the most characteristic proofs of sixteenth-century
indifference to things holy and things profane.

Jacopo Sansovino marks the final intrusion of paganism into modern art. The classical revival
had worked but partially and indirectly upon Ghiberti and Donatello--not because they did not
feel it most intensely, but because they clung to nature far more closely than to antique precedent.
This enthusiasm inspired Sansovino with the best and strongest qualities that he can boast;
and if his genius had been powerful enough to resist the fascination of merely rhetorical effects,
he might have produced a perfect restoration of the classic style. His was no lifeless or pedantic
imitation of antique fragments, but a real expression of the fervour with which the modern
world hailed the discoveries revealed to it by scholarship. This is said advisedly. The most
beautiful and spirited pagan statue of the Renaissance period, justifying the estimate here
made of Sansovino's genius, is the "Bacchus" exhibited in the Bargello Museum. Both the Bacchus
and the Satyriscus at his side are triumphs of realism, irradiated and idealised by the sculptor's
vivid sense of natural gladness. Considered as a restitution of the antique manner, this statue
is decidedly superior to the "Bacchus" of Michael Angelo. While the mundane splendour of Venice
gave body and fulness to Sansovino's paganism, he missed the self-restraint and purity of taste
peculiar to the studious shades of Florence. In his style, both architectural and sculptural,
the neo-pagan sensuality of Italy expanded all its bloom.

For the artist at this period a Greek myth and a Christian legend were all one. Both afforded
the occasion for displaying technical skill in fluent forms, devoid of any but voluptuous feeling;
while both might be subordinated to rich effects of decoration.[116] To this point the intellectual
culture of the fifteenth century had brought the plastic arts of Italy, by a process similar
to that which ended in the "Partus Virginis" of Sannazzaro. They were still indisputably vigorous,
and working in accordance with the movement of the modern spirit. Yet the synthesis they attempted
to effect between heathenism and Christianity, by a sheer effort of style, and by indifferentism,
strikes us from the point of view of art alone, not reckoning religion or morality, as unsuccessful.
Still, if it be childish on the one hand to deplore that the Christian earnestness of the earlier
masters had failed, it would be even more ridiculous to complain that paganism had not been
more entirely recovered. The double-mind of the Renaissance, the source of its weakness in
art as in thought, could not be avoided, because humanity at this moment had to lose the mediaeval
sincerity of faith, and to assimilate the spirit of a bygone civilisation. This, for better
or for worse, was the phase through which the intellect of modern Europe was obliged to pass;
and those who have confidence in the destinies of the human race, will not spend their strength
in moaning over such shortcomings as the periods of transition bring inevitably with them.
The student of Italian history may indeed more reasonably be allowed to question whether the
arts, if left to follow their own development unchecked, might not have recovered from the
confusion of the Renaissance and have entered on a stage of nobler activity through earnest
and unaffected study of nature. But the enslavement of the country, together with the counter-Reformation,
suspended the Renaissance in mid-career; and what remains of Italian art is incomplete. Besides,
it must be borne in mind that the confusion of opinions consequent upon the clash of the modern
with the ancient world, left no body of generally accepted beliefs to express; nor has the
time even yet arrived for a settlement and synthesis that shall be favourable to the activity
of the figurative arts.

Sansovino himself was neither original nor powerful enough, to elevate the mixed motives of
Renaissance sculpture by any lofty idealisation. To do that remained for Michael Angelo. The
greatness of Michael Angelo consists in this--that while literature was sinking into the frivolity
of Academies and the filth of the Bernesque "Capitoli," while the barefaced villanies of Aretino
won him credit, while sensual magnificence formed the ideal of artists who were neither Greeks
nor Christians, while Ariosto found no subject fitter for his genius than a glittering romance,
he and he alone maintained the Dantesque dignity of the Italian intellect in his sculpture.
Michael Angelo stands so far apart from other men, and is so gigantic a force for good and
evil in the history of art, that to estimate his life and labour in relation to the Renaissance
must form the subject of a separate chapter. For the present it is enough to observe that his
immediate scholars, Raffaello da Montelupo, and Gian Angelo Montorsoli, caught little from
their master but the mannerism of contorted form and agitated action. This mannerism, a blemish
even in the strong work of Buonarroti, became ridiculous when adopted by men of feeble powers
and passionless imagination. By straining the art of sculpture to its utmost limits, Michael
Angelo expressed vehement emotions in marble; and the forced attitudes affected in his work
had their value as significant of spiritual struggle. His imitators showed none of their master's
sublime force, none of that terribilità which made him unapproachable in social intercourse
and inimitable in art. They merely fancied that dignity and beauty were to be achieved by placing
figures in difficult postures, exaggerated muscular anatomy, and twisting the limbs of their
models upon sections of ellipses in uncomfortable attitudes, till the whole of their work was
writhen into uncouth lines. Buonarroti himself was not responsible for these results. He wrought
out his own ideal with the firmness of a genius that obeys the law of its own nature, doing
always what it must. That the decadence of sculpture into truculent bravado was independent
of his direct influence, is further proved by the inefficiency of his contemporaries.

Baccio Bandinelli and Bartolommeo Ammanati filled the squares of the Italian cities with statues
of Hercules and Satyrs, Neptune and River-gods. We know not whether to select the vulgarity,
the feebleness, or the pretentiousness of these pseudo-classical colossi for condemnation.
They have nothing Greek about them but their names, their nakedness, and their association
with myths, the significance whereof was never really felt by the sculptors. Some of Bandinelli's
designs, it is true, are vigorous; but they are mere drawings from undraped peasants, life
studies depicting the human animal. His "Hercules and Cacus," while it deserves all the sarcasm
hurled at it by Cellini, proves that Bandinelli could not rise above the wrestling bout of
a porter and a coal-heaver. Nor would it be possible to invent a motive less in accordance
with Greek taste than the conceit of Ammanati's fountain at Castello, where Hercules by squeezing
the body of Antaeus makes the drinking water of a city spout from a giant's mouth. Such pitiful
misapplications of an art which is designed to elevate the commonplace of human form, and to
render permanent the nobler qualities of physical existence, show how superficially and wrongly
the antique spirit had been apprehended.

Some years before his death Ammanati expressed in public his regret that he had made so many
giants and satyrs, feeling that, by exhibiting forms of lust, brutality, and animalism to the
gaze of his fellow-countrymen, he had sinned against the higher law revealed by Christianity.
For a Greek artist to have spoken thus would have been impossible. The Faun, the Titan, and
the Satyr had a meaning for him, which he sought to set forth in accordance with the semi-religious,
semi-poetical traditions of his race; and when he was at work upon a myth of nature-forces,
he well knew that at the other end of the scale, separated by no spiritual barrier, but removed
to an almost infinite distance of refinement, Zeus, Phoebus, and Pallas claimed his loftier
artistic inspiration. Ammanati's confession, on the contrary, betrays that schism between the
conscience of Christianity and the lusts let loose by ill-assimilated sympathy with antique
heathenism, which was a marked characteristic of the Renaissance. The coarser passions, held
in check by ecclesiastical discipline, dared to emerge into the light of day under the supposed
sanction of classical examples. What the Visconti and the Borgias practised in their secret
chambers, the sculptors exposed in marble and the poets in verse. All alike, however, were
mistaken in supposing that antique precedent sanctioned this efflorescence of immorality. No
amount of Greek epigrams by Strato and Meleager, nor all the Hermaphrodites and Priapi of Rome,
had power to annul the law of conduct established by the founders of Christianity, and ratified
by the higher instincts of the Middle Ages. Nor again were artists justified before the bar
of conscience in selecting the baser elements of Paganism for imitation, instead of aiming
at Greek self-restraint and Roman strength of character. All this the men of the Renaissance
felt when they listened to the voice within them. Their work, therefore, in so far as it pretended
to be a reconstruction of the antique was false. The sensuality it shared in common with many
Greek and Roman masterpieces, had ceased to be frank and in the true sense pagan. To shake
off Christianity, and to revert with an untroubled conscience to the manners of a bygone age,
was what they could not do.

The errors I have attempted to characterise did not, however, prevent the better and more careful
works of sculpture, executed in illustration of classical mythology, from having a true value.
The "Perseus" of Cellini and some of Gian Bologna's statues belong to a class of aesthetic
productions which show how much that is both original and excellent may be raised in the hotbed
of culture.[117] They express a genuine moment of the Renaissance with vigour, and deserve
to be ranked with the Latin poetry of Poliziano, Bembo, and Pontano. The worst that can be
said of them is that their inspiration was factitious, and that their motives had been handled
better in the age of Greek sincerity.

Gian Bologna, born at Douai, but a Florentine by education, devoted himself almost exclusively
to mythological sculpture. That he was a greater sculptor than his immediate predecessors will
be affirmed by all who have studied his bronze "Mercury," the "Venus of Petraja," and the "Neptune"
on the fountain of Bologna. Something of the genuine classic feeling had passed into his nature.
The "Mercury" is not a reminiscence of any antique statue. It gives in bronze a faithful and
spirited reading of Virgil's lines, and is conceived with artistic purity not unworthy of a
good Greek period. The "Neptune" is something more than a muscular old man; and, in its place,
it forms one of the most striking ornaments of Italy. It is worthy of remark that sculpture,
in this stage, continued to be decorative. Fountains are among the most successful monuments
of the late Renaissance. Even Montorsoli's fountain at Messina is in a high sense picturesquely
beautiful.

Casting a glance backward over the foregoing sketch of Italian sculpture, it will be seen that
three distinct stages were traversed in the evolution of this art. The first may be called
architectural, the second pictorial, the third neo-pagan. Defined by their artistic purposes,
the first idealises Christian motives; the second is naturalistic; the third attempts an idealisation
inspired by revived paganism. As far as the Renaissance is concerned, all three are moments
in its history; though it was only during the third that the influences of the classical revival
made themselves overwhelmingly felt. Niccola Pisano in the first stage marked a fresh point
of departure for his art by a return to Graeco-Roman standards of the purest type then attainable,
in combination with the study of nature. Giovanni Pisano effected a fusion between his father's
manner and the Gothic style. The Pisan sculpture was wholly Christian; nor did it attempt to
free itself from the service of architecture. Giotto opened the second stage by introducing
new motives, employed by him with paramount mastery in painting. Under his influence the sculptors
inclined to picturesque effects, and the direction thus given to sculpture lasted through the
fifteenth century. For the rest, the style of these masters was distinguished by a fresh and
charming naturalism and by rapid growth in technical processes. While assimilating much of
the classical spirit, they remained on the whole Christian; and herein they were confirmed
by the subjects they were chiefly called upon to treat, in the decoration of altars, pulpits,
church façades, and tombs. The revived interest in antique literature widened their sympathies
and supplied their fancy with new material; but there is no imitative formalism in their work.
Its beauty consists in a certain immature blending of motives chosen almost indiscriminately
from Christian and pagan mythology, vitalised by the imagination of the artist, and presented
with the originality of true creative instinct. During the third stage the results of prolonged
and almost exclusive attention to the classics, on the part of the Italians as a people, make
themselves manifest. Collections of antiquities and libraries had been formed in the fifteenth
century; the literary energies of the nation were devoted to the interpretation of Greek and
Latin texts, and the manners of society affected paganism. At the same time a worldly Church
and a corrupt hierarchy had done their utmost to enfeeble the spirit of Christianity. That
art should prove itself sensitive to this phase of intellectual and social life was natural.
Religious subjects were now treated by the sculptors with superficial formalism and cynical
indifference, while all their ingenuity was bestowed upon providing pagan myths with new forms.
How far they succeeded has been already made the matter of inquiry. The most serious condemnation
of art in this third period is that it halted between two opinions, that it could not be sincere.
But this double-mindedness, as I have tried to show, was necessary; and therefore to lament
over it is weak. What the Renaissance achieved for the modern world was the liberation of the
reason, the power of starting on a new career of progress. The false direction given to the
art of sculpture at one moment of this intellectual revival may be deplored; and still more
deplorable is the corresponding sensual debasement of the race who won for us the possibility
of freedom. But the life of humanity is long and vigorous, and the philosopher of history knows
well that the sum total of accomplishment at any time must be diminished by an unavoidable
discount. The Renaissance, like a man of genius, had the defects of its qualities.

FOOTNOTES:

[56] Sketches of the History of Christian Art, vol. ii. p. 102.

[57] Since I wrote the paragraph above, I have chanced to read Mr. Buskin's eloquent tirade
against the modern sceptical school of critics in his "Mornings in Florence," The Vaulted Book,
pp. 105, 106. With the spirit of it I thoroughly agree; feeling that, in the absence of solid
evidence to the contrary, I would always rather accept sixteenth-century Italian tradition
with Vasari, than reject it with German or English speculators of to-day. This does not mean
that I wish to swear by Vasari, when he can be proved to have been wrong, but that I regard
the present tendency to mistrust tradition, only because it is tradition, as in the highest
sense uncritical.

[58] See Appendix I., on the Pulpits of Pisa and Ravello.

[59] The data is extremely doubtful. Were we to trust internal evidence--the evidence of style
and handling--we should be inclined to name this not the earliest but the latest and ripest
of Pisano's works. It may be suggested in passing that the form of the lunette was favourable
to the composition by forcing a gradation in the figures from the centre to either side. There
is an engraving of this bas-relief in Ottley's Italian School of Design.

[60] Rheims Cathedral, for example, was begun in 1211. Upon its western portals is the loveliest
of Northern Gothic sculpture.

[61] Antonio Filarete was commissioned, soon after 1431, by Eugenius IV., to make the great
gates of S. Peter's. The decorative framework represents a multitude of living creatures--snails,
snakes, lizards, mice, butterflies, and birds--half hidden in foliage, together with the best
known among Greek myths, the Rape of Proserpine, Diana and Actaeon, Europa and the Bull, the
Labours of Hercules, &c. Such fables as the Fox and the Stork, the Fox and the Crow, and old
stories like that of the death of Æschylus, are included in this medley. The monument of Paul
III. is placed in the choir of S. Peter's. Giulia Bella was the mistress of Alexander VI.,
and a sister of the Farnese, who owed his cardinal's hat to her influence. To represent her
as an allegory of Truth upon her brother's tomb might well pass for a grim satire. The Prudence
opposite is said to be a portrait of the Pope's mother, Giovanna Gaëtani. She resembles nothing
more than a duenna of the type of Martha in Goethe's Faust. Here, again, the allegory would
point a scathing sarcasm, if we did not remember the naïveté of the Renaissance.

[62] See above, Chapter II, Italian want of feeling for Gothic.

[63] Having said so much about this pulpit of S. Andrea, I am sorry that I cannot refer the
English reader to any accessible representation of it. For its sake alone, if for no other
purpose, Pistoja is well worth a visit.

[64] It was long believed that he died of eating poisoned figs.

[65] See above, Footnote 16, for the original conception of this motive at Orvieto.

[66] See Il Duomo di Orvieto, descritto ed illustrato per Lodovico Luzi, pp. 330-339.

[67] See Luzi, pp. 317-328, and the first extant commission given in 1310 to Maitani, which
follows, pp. 328-330.

[68] The whole series has been admirably engraved under the superintendence of Ludwig Grüner.
Special attention may be directed to the groups of angels attendant on the Creator in His last
day's work; to the "Adoration of the Shepherds," distinguished by tender and idyllic grace:
and to the "Adoration of the Magi," marked no less by majesty. The dead breaking open the lids
of their sarcophagi and rising to judgment are justly famous for spirited action.

[69] In Gothic sculpture of an early date the Bible narrative is literally represented. God
draws Eve from the open side of sleeping Adam. On the façade of Orvieto this motive is less
altered than refined. The wound in Adam's side is visible, but Eve is coming from behind his
sleeping body in obedience to the beckoning hand of her Creator. Ghiberti in the bronze gate
of the Florentine Baptistery still further develops the poetic beauty of the motive. Angels
lift Eve in the air above Adam, in whose side there is now no open wound, and sustain her face
to face with God, who calls her into life. Della Quercia, on the façade of S. Petronio, confines
himself to the creative act, expressed by the raised hand of the Maker, and the answering attitude
of Eve; and this conception receives final treatment from Michael Angelo in the frescoes of
the Sistine.

[70] Le Tre Porte del Battistero di San Giovanni di Firenze, incise ed illustrate (Firenze,
1821), contains outlines of all Andrea Pisano's and Ghiberti's work.

[71] See above, Chapter I, Greek and Christian Ideals.

[72] See above, Chapter I, Greek and Christian Ideals.

[73] What Giotto himself was, as a designer for sculpture, is shown in the little reliefs upon
the basement of his campanile.

[74] What has previously been noted in the chapter upon architecture deserves repetition here--that
the Italian style of building gave more scope to independent sculpture, owing to its preference
for flat walls, and its rejection of multiplied niches, canopies, and so forth, than the Northern
Gothic. Thus, however subordinated to architecture, sculpture in Italy still had more scope
for self-assertion than in Germany or France.

[75] See Perkins, Italian Sculptors, p. 109, for a description of the Arca di S. Agostino,
which he assigns to Matteo and Bonino da Campione. This shrine, now in the Duomo, was made
for the sacristy of S. Pietro in Cielo d'Oro, where it stood until the year 1832.

[76] Bonino da Campione, the Milanese, who may have had a hand in the Arca di S. Agostino,
carved the tomb of Can Signorio. That of Mastino II. was executed by another Milanese, Perino.

[77] See Trucchi, Poesie Italiane inedite, vol. ii.

[78] See the Illustrated work, Il Tabernacolo della Madonna d'Or sammichele, Firenze, 1851.

[79] The weighty chapter in Alberti's Treatise on Painting, lib. iii. cap. 5, might be used
to support this paragraph.

[80] Quercia, born 1374; Ghiberti, 1378; Brunelleschi, 1379; Donatello, 1386.

[81] They are engraved in the work cited above, Le Tre Porte, seconda Porta, Tavole i. ii.

[82] The bas-reliefs of S. Petronio were executed between 1425 and 1435. Those of the font
in the chapel of S. John (not the lower church of S. John), at Siena, are ascribed to Quercia,
and are in his manner; but when they were finished I do not know. They set forth six subjects
from the story of Adam and Eve, with a compartment devoted to Hercules killing the Centaur
Nessus, and another to Samson or Hercules and the Lion. The choice of subjects, affording scope
for treatment of the nude, is characteristic; so is the energy of handling, though rude in
detail. It may be worth while to notice here a similar series of reliefs upon the façade of
the Colleoni Chapel at Bergamo, representing scenes from the story of Adam in conjunction with
the labours of Hercules.

[83] Ruskin's Modern Painters, vol. ii. chap, vii., Repose.

[84] See Flaxman's Lectures on Sculpture, p. 310.

[85] This criticism of the "Gate of Paradise" sounds even to the writer of it profane, and
demands a palinode. Who, indeed, can affirm that he would wish the floating figure of Eve,
or the three angels at Abraham's tent-door, other than they are?

[86] See the Commentaries of Ghiberti, printed in vol. i. of Vasari (Lemonnier, 1846).

[87] The patera is at South Kensington, the frieze at Florence.

[88] As also the wooden Baptist in the Frari at Venice.

[89] There is another "David," by Donatello, in marble; also in the Bargello, scarcely less
stiff and ugly than the "Baptist."

[90] The cast was published by the Arundel Society. The original belongs to Lord Elcho.

[91] It has been suggested, with good show of reason, that Mantegna was largely indebted to
these bas-reliefs for his lofty style.

[92] This omits the statues of the Scaligers: but no mediaeval work aimed at equal animation.
The antique bronze horses at Venice and the statue of Marcus Aurelius must have been in Donatello's
mind.

[93] The sculptor of a beautiful tomb erected for the Countess of Montorio and her infant daughter
in the church of S. Bernardino at Aquila was probably Andrea dell' Aquila, a pupil of Donatello.
See Perkins's Italian Sculptors, pp. 46, 47.

[94] Istoria della Vita e Fatti dell' eccellentissimo Capitano di guerra Bartolommeo Colleoni,
scritta per Pietro Spino. Republished, 1859.

[95] See Vol. I., Age of the Despots, p. 310, note 2.

[96] Crowe and Cavalcaselle, vol. ii. chap, xvi., may be consulted as to the several claims
of the two brothers.

[97] His bas-reliefs on Giotto's campanile of Grammar, Astronomy, Geometry, Plato, Aristotle,
&c., are anterior to 1445; and even about this date there is uncertainty, some authorities
fixing it at 1435.

[98] Purg. x. 37, and xi. 68.

[99] Among the very best works of the later Robbian school may be cited the frieze upon the
façade of the Ospedale del Ceppo at Pistoja, representing in varied colour, and with graceful
vivacity, the Seven Acts of Mercy. Date about 1525.

[100] He calls himself Agostinus Florentine Lapicida on his façade of the Oratory of S. Bernardino.

[101] See especially a roundel in the Bargello, and the altar-piece in the church of Monte
Oliveto at Naples. Those who wish to understand Rossellino should study him in the latter place.

[102] In the church of Samminiato, near Florence.

[103] Vite di Uomini Illustri, pp. 152-157.

[104] These tombs in the Badia were erected for Count Ugo, Governor of Tuscany under Otho II.,
and for Messer Bernardo Giugni. Mino also made the tomb for Pope Paul II., parts of which are
preserved in the Grotte of S. Peter's. At Rome he carved a tabernacle for S. Maria in Trastevere,
and at Volterra a ciborium for the Baptistery--one of his most sympathetic productions. The
altars in the Baglioni Chapel of S. Pietro Cassinense at Perugia, in S. Ambrogio at Florence,
and in the cathedral of Fiesole, and the pulpit in the Duomo at Prato, may be mentioned among
his best works.

[105] Besides Civitali's altar of S. Regulus, and the tomb of Pietro da Noceto already mentioned,
Bernardo Rossellino's monument to Lionardo Bruni, and Desiderio's monument to Carlo Marsuppini
in S. Croce at Florence, may be cited as eminent examples of Tuscan sepulchres.

[106] The wooden statue of the Magdalen in Santa Trinità at Florence shows Desiderio's approximation
to the style of his master. She is a careworn and ascetic saint, with the pathetic traces of
great beauty in her emaciated face.

[107] This bust is in the Palazzo Strozzi at Florence.

[108] So Giovanni Santi, Raphael's father, described Desiderio da Settignano.

[109] The following story is told about Benedetto's youth. He made two large inlaid chests
or cassoni, adorned with all the skill of a worker in tarsia, or wood-mosaic, and carried these
with him to King Matthias Corvinus, of Hungary. Part of his journey was performed by sea. On
arriving and unpacking his chests, he found that the sea-damp had unglued the fragile wood-mosaic,
and all his work was spoiled. This determined him to practise the more permanent art of sculpture.
See Perkins, vol. i. p. 228.

[110] For further description of the sculpture at Rimini, I may refer to my Sketches in Italy
and Greece, pp. 250-252. For the student of Italian art, who has no opportunity of visiting
Rimini, it is greatly to be regretted that these reliefs have never yet even in photography
been reproduced. The palace of Duke Frederick at Urbino was designed by Luziano, a Dalmatian
architect, and continued by Baccio Pontelli, a Florentine. The reliefs of dancing Cupids, white
on blue ground, with wings and hair gilt, and the children holding pots of roses and gilly-flowers,
in one of its great rooms, may be selected for special mention. Ambrogio or Ambrogino da Milano,
none of whose handiwork is found in his native district, and who may therefore be supposed
to have learned and practised his art elsewhere, was the sculptor of these truly genial reliefs.

[111] See, for example, the remarkable bas-relief of the Doge Lionardo Loredano engraved by
Perkins, Italian Sculptors, p. 201.

[112] Another Modenese, Antonio Begarelli, born in 1479, developed this art of the plasticatore,
with quite as much pictorial impressiveness, and in a style of stricter science, than his predecessor
Il Modanino. His masterpieces are the "Deposition from the Cross" in S. Francesco, and the
"Pietà" in S. Pietro, of his native city.

[113] The name of this great master is variously written--Giovanni Antonio Amadeo, or Omodeo,
or degli Amadei, or de' Madeo, or a Madeo--pointing possibly to the town Madeo as his native
place. Through a long life he worked upon the fabric of the Milanese Duomo, the Certosa of
Pavia, and the Chapel of Colleoni at Bergamo. To him we owe the general design of the façade
of the Certosa and the cupola of the Duomo of Milan. For the details of his work and an estimate
of his capacity, see Perkins, Italian Sculptors, pp. 127-137.

[114] This statue was originally intended for a chapel built and endowed by Colleoni at Basella,
near Bergamo. When he determined to erect his chapel in S. Maria Maggiore at Bergamo, he entrusted
the execution of this new work to Amadeo, and the monument of Medea was subsequently placed there.

[115] See above, p. 113. I have spelt the name Sansovino, when applied to Jacopo Tatti, in
accordance with time-honoured usage.

[116] To multiply instances is tedious; but notice in this connection the Hermaphroditic statue
of S. Sebastian at Orvieto, near the western door. It is a fair work of Lo Scalza.

[117] This brief allusion to Cellini must suffice for the moment, as I intend to treat of him
in a separate chapter.

It is the duty of the historian of painting to trace the beginnings of art in each of the Italian
communities, to differentiate their local styles, and to explain their mutual connections.
For the present generation this work is being done with all-sufficient thoroughness and accuracy.[118]
The historian of culture, on the other hand, for whom the arts form one important branch of
intellectual activity, may dispense with these detailed inquiries, and may endeavour to seize
the more general outlines of the subject. He need not weigh in balances the claims of rival
cities to priority, nor hamper his review of national progress by discussing the special merits
of the several schools. Still there are certain broad facts about the distribution of artistic
gifts in Italy which it is necessary to bear in mind. However much we may desire to treat of
painting as a phase of national and not of merely local life, the fundamental difficulty of
Italian history, its complexity and variety, owing to the subdivisions of the nation into divers
states, must here as elsewhere be acknowledged. To deny that each of the Italian centres had
its own strong personality in art--that painting, as practised in Genoa or Naples, differed
from the painting of Ferrara or Urbino--would be to contradict a law that has been over and
over again insisted upon already in these volumes.

The broad outlines of the subject can be briefly stated. Surveying the map of Italy, we find
that we may eliminate from our consideration the north-western and the southern provinces.
Not from Piedmont nor from Liguria, not from Rome nor from the extensive kingdom of Naples,
does Italian painting take its origin, or at any period derive important contributions.[119]
Lombardy, with the exception of Venice, is comparatively barren of originative elements.[120]
To Tuscany, to Umbria, and to Venice, roughly speaking, are due the really creative forces
of Italian painting; and these three districts were marked by strong peculiarities. In art,
as in politics, Florence and Venice exhibit distinct types of character.[121] The Florentines
developed fresco, and devoted their genius to the expression of thought by scientific design.
The Venetians perfected oil-painting, and set forth the glory of the world as it appeals to
the imagination and the senses. The art of Florence may seem to some judges to savour over-much
of intellectual dryness; the art of Venice, in the apprehension of another class of critics,
offers something over-much of material richness. More allied to the Tuscan than to the Venetian
spirit, the Umbrian masters produced a style of genuine originality. The cities of the Central
Apennines owed their specific quality of religious fervour to the influences emanating from
Assisi, the head-quarters of the cultus of S. Francis. This pietism, nowhere else so paramount,
except for a short period in Siena, constitutes the individuality of Umbria.

With regard to the rest of Italy, the old custom of speaking about schools and places, instead
of signalising great masters, has led to misconception, by making it appear that local circumstances
were more important than the facts justify. We do not find elsewhere what we find in Tuscany,
in Umbria, and in Venice--a definite quality, native to the district, shared through many generations
by all its painters, and culminating in a few men of commanding genius. When, for instance,
we speak of the School of Milan, what we mean is the continuation through Lionardo da Vinci
and his pupils of the Florentine tradition, as modified by him and introduced into the Lombard
capital. That a special style was developed by Luini, Ferrari, and other artists of the Milanese
duchy, so that their manner differs essentially from that of Parma and Cremona, does not invalidate
the importance of this fact about its origin. The name of Roman School, again, has been given
to Raphael and Michael Angelo together with their pupils. The truth is that Rome, for one brief
period, during the pontificates of Julius and Leo, was the focus of Italian intellect. Allured
by the patronage of the Papal Curia, not only artists, but scholars and men of letters, flocked
from all the cities of Italy to Rome, where they found a nobler sphere for the exercise of
their faculties than elsewhere. But Rome, while she lent her imperial quality of grandeur to
the genius of her aliens, was in no sense originative. Rome produced no first-rate master from
her own children, if we except Giulio Romano. The title of originality is due rather to Padua,
the birthplace of Mantegna, or to Parma, the city of Correggio, whose works display independence
of either Florentine or Venetian traditions. Yet these great masters were isolated, neither
expressing in any definite form the character of their districts, nor founding a succession
of local artists. Their influence was incontestably great, but widely diffused. Bologna and
Ferrara, Brescia and Bergamo, Cremona and Verona, have excellent painters; and it is not difficult
to show that in each of these cities art assumed specific characters. Yet the interest of the
schools in these towns is due mainly to the varied influences brought to bear upon them from
Venice, Umbria, and Milan. In other words they are affiliated, each according to its geographical
position, to the chief originative centres.

What I have advanced in the foregoing paragraphs is not meant for a polemic against the time-honoured
division of Italian painters into local schools, but for a justification of my own proposed
method of treatment. Having undertaken to deal with painting as the paramount art-product of
the Renaissance, it will be my object to point out the leading characteristics of aesthetic
culture in Italy, rather than to dwell upon its specific differences. The Venetian painters
I intend to reserve for a separate chapter, devoting this and the two next to the general history
of the art as developed in Tuscany and propagated by Tuscan influences.[122] In pursuing this
plan I shall endeavour to show how the successive stages in the evolution of Italian painting
corresponded to similar stages in the history of the Renaissance. Beginning as the handmaid
of the Church, and stimulated by the enthusiasm of the two great popular monastic orders, painting
was at first devoted to embodying the thoughts of mediaeval Christianity. In proportion as
the painters fortified themselves by study of the natural world, their art became more secular.
Mysticism gave way to realism. It was felt that much beside religious sentiment was worthy
of expression. At the same time, about the year 1440, this process of secularisation was hastened
by the influences of the classical revival, renewing an interest in the past life of humanity,
and stirring a zeal for science. The painters, on the one hand, now aimed at accurate delineation
of actual things: good perspective, correct drawing, sound portraiture, occupied their attention,
to the exclusion of more purely spiritual motives. On the other hand they conceived an admiration
for the fragments of the newly discovered antiques, and felt the plastic beauty of Hellenic
legends. It is futile to attempt, as M. Rio has done, to prove that this abandonment of the
religious sphere of earlier art was for painting a plain decline from good to bad, or to make
the more or less of spiritual feeling in a painter's style the test of his degree of excellence;
nor can we by any sophistries be brought to believe that the Popes of the fifteenth century
were pastoral protectors of solely Christian arts. The truth is, that in the Church, in politics,
and in society, the fifteenth century witnessed a sensible decrease of religious fervour, and
a very considerable corruption of morality. Painting felt this change; and the secularisation,
which was inevitable, passed onward into paganism. Yet the art itself cannot be said to have
suffered, when on the threshold of the sixteenth century stand the greatest painters whom the
world has known--neither Catholics nor Heathens, but, in their strength of full accomplished
art and science, human. After Italy, in the course of that century, had been finally enslaved,
then, and not till then, painting suffered from the general depression of the national genius.
The great luminaries were extinguished one by one, till none were left but Michael Angelo in
Rome, and Tintoret in Venice. The subsequent history of Italian painting is occupied with its
revival under the influences of the counter-Reformation, when a new religious sentiment, emasculated
and ecstatic, was expressed in company with crude naturalism and cruel sensualism by Bolognese
and Neapolitan painters.

I need scarcely repeat the tale of Cimabue's picture, visited by Charles of Anjou, and borne
in triumph through the streets with trumpeters, beneath a shower of garlands, to S. Maria Novella.[123]
Yet this was the birthday festival of nothing less than what the world now values as Italian
painting. In this public act of joy the people of Florence recognised and paid enthusiastic
honour to the art arisen among them from the dead. If we rightly consider the matter, it is
not a little wonderful that a whole community should thus have hailed the presence in their
midst of a new spirit of power and beauty. It proves the widespread sensibility of the Florentines
to things of beauty, and shows the sympathy which, emanating from the people, was destined
to inspire and brace the artist for his work.[124]

In a dark transept of S. Maria Novella, raised by steps above the level of the church, still
hangs this famous "Madonna" of the Rucellai--not far, perhaps, from the spot where Boccaccio's
youths and maidens met that Tuesday morning in the year of the great plague; nor far, again,
from where the solitary woman, beautiful beyond belief, conversed with Machiavelli on the morning
of the first of May in 1527.[125] We who can call to mind the scenes that picture has looked
down upon--we who have studied the rise and decadence of painting throughout Italy from this
beginning even to the last work of the latest Bolognese--may do well to visit it with reverence,
and to ponder on the race of mighty masters whose lineage here takes its origin.

Cimabue did not free his style from what are called Byzantine or Romanesque mannerisms. To
unpractised eyes his saints and angels, with their stiff draperies and angular attitudes, though
they exhibit stateliness and majesty, belong to the same tribe as the grim mosaics and gaunt
frescoes of his predecessors. It is only after careful comparison that we discover, in this
picture of the Rucellai for example, a distinctly fresh endeavour to express emotion and to
depict life. The outstretched arms of the infant Christ have been copied from nature, not merely
borrowed from tradition. The six kneeling angels display variety of attitude suited to several
shades of devout affection and adoring service. The head of the Madonna, heavy as it is and
conventional in type, still strives to represent maternal affection mingled with an almost
melancholy reverence. Prolonging our study, we are led to ask whether the painter might not
have painted more freely had he chosen--whether, in fact, he was not bound down to the antique
mode of presentation consecrated by devout tradition. This question occurs with even greater
force before the wall-paintings ascribed to Cimabue in the church of S. Francis at Assisi.

It remained for Giotto Bondone, born at Vespignano in 1276, just at the date of Niccola Pisano's
death, to carry painting in his lifetime even further than the Pisan sculptor had advanced
the sister art. Cimabue, so runs a legend luckily not yet discredited, found the child Giotto
among the sheep-folds on the solemn Tuscan hill-side, drawing with boyish art the outline of
a sheep upon a stone.[126] The master recognised his talent, and took him from his father's
cottage to the Florentine bottega, much as young Haydn was taken by Renter to S. Stephen's
at Vienna. Gifted with a large and comprehensive intellect, capable of sustained labour, and
devoted with the unaffected zeal of a good craftsman to his art, Giotto in the course of his
long career filled Italy with work that taught succeeding centuries of painters. As we travel
from Padua in the north, where his Arena Chapel sets forth the legend of Mary and the life
of Christ in a series of incomparable frescoes, southward to Naples, where he adorned the convent
of S. Chiara, we meet with Giotto in almost every city. The "Passion of our Lord" and the "Allegories
of S. Francis" were painted by him at Assisi. S. Peter's at Borne still shows his mosaic of
the "Ship of the Church." Florence raises his wonderful bell-tower, that lily among campanili,
to the sky; and preserves two chapels of S. Croce, illuminated by him with paintings from the
stories of S. Francis and S. John. In the chapel of the Podestà he drew the portraits of Dante,
Brunetto Latini, and Charles of Valois. And these are but a tithe of his productions. Nothing,
indeed, in the history of art is more remarkable than the fertility of this originative genius,
no less industrious in labour than fruitful of results for men who followed him. The sound
common sense, the genial temper, and the humour of the man, as we learn to know him in tales
made current by Vasari and the novelists, help to explain how he achieved so much, with energy
so untiring and with excellence so even.

It is no exaggeration to say that Giotto and his scholars, within the space of little more
than half a century, painted out upon the walls of the churches and public palaces of Italy
every great conception of the Middle Ages. And this they achieved without ascetic formalism,
energetically, but always reverently, aiming at expressing life and dramatising Scripture history.
The tale told about Giotto's first essay in drawing might be chosen as a parable: he was not
found beneath a church roof tracing a mosaic, but on the open mountain, trying to draw the
portrait of the living thing committed to his care.

What, therefore, Giotto gave to art was, before all things else, vitality. His Madonnas are
no longer symbols of a certain phase of pious awe, but pictures of maternal love. The Bride
of God suckles her divine infant with a smile, watches him playing with a bird, or stretches
out her arms to take him when he turns crying from the hands of the circumcising priest. By
choosing incidents like these from real home-life, Giotto, through his painting, humanised
the mysteries of faith, and brought them close to common feeling. Nor was the change less in
his method than his motives. Before his day painting had been without composition, without
charm of colour, without suggestion of movement or the play of living energy. He first knew
how to distribute figures in the given space with perfect balance, and how to mass them together
in animated groups agreeable to the eye. He caught varied and transient shades of emotion,
and expressed them by the posture of the body and the play of feature. The hues of morning
and of evening served him. Of all painters he was most successful in preserving the clearness
and the light of pure, well-tempered colours. His power of telling a story by gesture and action
is unique in its peculiar simplicity. There are no ornaments or accessories in his pictures.
The whole force of the artist has been concentrated on rendering the image of the life conceived
by him. Relying on his knowledge of human nature, and seeking only to make his subject intelligible,
no painter is more unaffectedly pathetic, more unconsciously majestic. While under the influence
of his genius, we are sincerely glad that the requisite science for clever imitation of landscape
and architectural backgrounds was not forthcoming in his age. Art had to go through a toilsome
period of geometrical and anatomical pedantry, before it could venture, in the frescoes of
Michael Angelo and Raphael, to return with greater wealth of knowledge on a higher level to
the divine simplicity of its childhood in Giotto.

In the drawing of the figure Giotto was surpassed by many meaner artists of the fifteenth century.
Nor had he that quality of genius which selects a high type of beauty, and is scrupulous to
shun the commonplace. The faces of even his most sacred personages are often almost vulgar.
In his choice of models for saints and apostles we already trace the Florentine instinct for
contemporary portraiture. Yet, though his knowledge of anatomy was defective, and his taste
was realistic, Giotto solved the great problem of figurative art far better than more learned
and fastidious painters. He never failed to make it manifest that what he meant to represent
was living. Even to the non-existent he gave the semblance of reality. We cannot help believing
in his angels leaning waist-deep from the blue sky, wringing their hands in agony above the
Cross, pacing like deacons behind Christ when He washes the feet of His disciples, or sitting
watchful and serene upon the empty sepulchre. He was, moreover, essentially a fresco-painter,
working with rapid decision on a large scale, aiming at broad effects, and willing to sacrifice
subtlety to clearness of expression. The health of his whole nature and his robust good sense
are everywhere apparent in his solid, concrete, human work of art. There is no trace of mysticism,
no ecstatic piety, nothing morbid or hysterical, in his imagination. Imbuing whatever he handled
with the force and freshness of actual existence, Giotto approached the deep things of the
Christian faith and the legend of S. Francis in the spirit of a man bent simply on realising
the objects of his belief as facts. His allegories of "Poverty," "Chastity," and "Obedience,"
at Assisi, are as beautiful and powerfully felt as they are carefully constructed. Yet they
conceal no abstruse spiritual meaning, but are plainly painted "for the poor laity of love
to read." The artist poet who coloured the virginal form of Poverty, with the briars beneath
her feet and the roses blooming round her forehead, proved by his well-known canzone that he
was free from monastic Quixotism, and took a practical view of the value of worldly wealth.[127]
His homely humour saved him from the exaltation and the childishness that formed the weakness
of the Franciscan revival. By the same firm grasp upon reality he created more than mere abstractions
in his chiaroscuro figures of the virtues and vices at Padua. Fortitude and Justice, Faith
and Envy, are gifted by him with a real corporeal existence. They seem fit to play their parts
with other concrete personalities upon the stage of this world's history. Giotto in truth possessed
a share of that power which belonged to the Greek sculptors. He embodies myths in physical
forms, adequate to their intellectual meaning. This was in part the secret of the influence
he exercised over the sculptors of the second period;[128] and had the conditions of the age
been favourable to such development, some of the allegorical types created by him might have
passed into the Pantheon of popular worship as deities incarnate.

The birth of Italian painting is closely connected with the religious life of the Italians.
The building of the church of S. Francis at Assisi gave it the first great impulse; and to
the piety aroused by S. Francis throughout Italy, but mostly in the valleys of the Apennines,
it owed its animating spirit in the fourteenth century. The church of Assisi is double. One
structure of nave, and choir, and transept, is imposed upon another; and the walls of both,
from floor to coping-stone, are covered with fresco-painted pictures taking here the place
occupied by mosaic in such churches as the cathedral of Monreale, or by coloured glass in the
northern cathedrals of the pointed style. Many of these frescoes date from years before the
birth of Giotto. Giunta the Pisan, Gaddo Gaddi, and Cimabue, are supposed to have worked there,
painfully continuing or feebly struggling to throw off the decadent traditions of a dying art.
In their school Giotto laboured, and modern painting arose with the movement of new life beneath
his brush. Here, pondering in his youth upon the story of Christ's suffering, and in his later
manhood on the virtues of S. Francis and his vow, he learned the secret of giving the semblance
of flesh and blood reality to Christian thought. His achievement was nothing less than this.
The Creation, the Fall, the Redemption of the World, the moral discipline of man, the Judgment,
and the final state of bliss or misery--all these he quickened into beautiful and breathing
forms. Those were noble days, when the painter had literally acres of walls given him to cover;
when the whole belief of Christendom, grasped by his own faith, and firmly rooted in the faith
of the people round him, as yet unimpaired by alien emanations from the world of classic culture,
had to be set forth for the first time in art. His work was then a Bible, a compendium of grave
divinity and human history, a book embracing all things needful for the spiritual and the civil
life of man. He spoke to men who could not read, for whom there were no printed pages, but
whose heart received his teaching through the eye. Thus painting was not then what it is now,
a decoration of existence, but a potent and efficient agent in the education of the race. Such
opportunities do not occur twice in the same age. Once in Greece for the pagan world; once
in Italy for the modern world;--that must suffice for the education of the human race.

Like Niccola Pisano, Giotto not only founded a school in his native city, but spread his manner
far and wide over Italy, so that the first period of the history of painting is the Giottesque.
The Gaddi of Florence, Giottino, Puccio Capanna, the Lorenzetti of Siena, Spinello of Arezzo,
Andrea Orcagna, Domenico Veneziano, and the lesser artists of the Pisan Campo Santo, were either
formed or influenced by him. To give an account of the frescoes of these painters would be
to describe how the religious, social, and philosophical conceptions of the fourteenth century
found complete expression in form and colour. By means of allegory and pictured scene they
drew the portrait of the Middle Age in Italy, performing jointly and in combination with the
followers of Niccola Pisano what Dante had done singly by his poetry.

It has often been remarked that the drama of the life beyond this world--its prologue in the
courts of death, the tragedy of judgment, and the final state of bliss or misery prepared for
souls--preoccupied the mind of the Italians at the close of the Middle Ages. Every city had
its pictorial representation of the "Dies Irae;" and within this framework the artist was free
to set forth his philosophy of human nature, adding such touches of satire or admonition as
suited his own temper or the circumstances of the place for which he worked. Dante's poem has
immortalised this moment of Italian consciousness, when the belief in another world was used
to intensify the emotions of this life--when the inscrutable darkness toward which men travel
became for them a black and polished mirror reflecting with terrible luminousness the events
of the present and the past. So familiar had the Italians become with the theme of death artistically
treated, that they did not shrink from acted pageants of the tragedy of Hell. Giovanni Villani
tells us that in 1304 the companies and clubs of pleasure, formed for making festival throughout
the town of Florence on the 1st of May, contended with each other for the prize of novelty
and rarity in sports provided for the people. "Among the rest, the Borgo S. Friano had it cried
about the streets, that whoso wished for news from the other world, should find himself on
Mayday on the bridge Carraja or the neighbouring banks of Arno. And in Arno they contrived
stages upon boats and various small craft, and made the semblance and figure of Hell there
with flames and other pains and torments, with men dressed as demons horrible to see; and others
had the shape of naked souls; and these they gave unto those divers tortures with exceeding
great crying and groaning and confusion, the which seemed hateful and appalling unto eyes and
ears. The novelty of the sport drew many citizens, and the bridge Carraja, then of wood, was
so crowded that it brake in several places and fell with the folk upon it, whereby were many
killed and drowned, and many were disabled; and as the crier had proclaimed, so now in death
went much folk to learn news of the other world."

Such being the temper of the people, we find that some of the greatest works of art in this
age were paintings of Death and Hell, Heaven and Judgment. Orcagna, in the Strozzi Chapel of
S. Maria Novella, set forth these scenes with a wonderful blending of beauty and grotesque
invention. In the treatment of the Inferno he strove to delineate the whole geography of Dante's
first cantica, tracing the successive circles and introducing the various episodes commemorated
by the poet. Interesting as this work may be for the illustration of the "Divine Comedy" as
understood by Dante's immediate successors, we turn from it with a sense of relief to admire
the saints and angels ranged in goodly row, "each burning upward to his point of bliss" whereby
the painter has depicted Paradise. Early Italian art has nothing more truly beautiful to offer
than the white-robed Madonna kneeling at the judgment seat of Christ.[129]

It will be felt by every genuine student of art that if Orcagna painted these frescoes in S.
Maria Novella, whereof there is no doubt, he could not have executed the wall-paintings in
the Campo Santo at Pisa attributed to him by Vasari. To what artists or artist we owe those
three grave and awful panels, may still be regarded an open question.[130] At the end of the
southern wall of the cemetery, exposed to a cold and equal north light from the cloister windows,
these great compositions, after the lapse of five centuries, bring us face to face with the
most earnest thoughts of mediaeval Christianity. Their main purpose seems to be to illustrate
the advantage of the ascetic over the secular mode of life, and to school men into living with
the fear of death before their eyes. The first displays the solitary vigils, self-imposed penances,
cruel temptations, firm endurance, and beatific visions of the anchorites in the Thebaid. The
second is devoted to the triumph of Death over the pomp, strength, wealth, and beauty of the
world. The third reveals a grimly realistic and yet awfully imaginative vision of judgment,
such as it has rarely been granted to a painter to conceive. Thus to the awakening soul of
the Italians, on the threshold of the modern era, with the sonnets of Petrarch and the stories
of Boccaccio sounding in their memories, this terrible master presented the three saddest phantoms
of the Middle Ages--the spectre of death omnipotent, the solitude of the desert as the only
refuge from a sinful and doomed world, the dread of Divine justice inexorable and inevitable.
In those piles of the promiscuous and abandoned dead, those fiends and angels poised in mid-air
struggling for souls, those blind and mutilated beggars vainly besieging Death with prayers
and imprecations for deliverance, while she descends in her robe of woven wire to mow down
with her scythe the knights and ladies in their garden of delight; again in those horses snuffing
at the open graves, those countesses and princes face to face with skeletons, those serpents
coiling round the flesh of what was once fair youth or maid, those multitudes of guilty men
and women trembling beneath the trump of the archangel--tearing their cheeks, their hair, their
breasts in agony, because they see Hell through the prison-bars, and hear the raging of its
fiends, and feel the clasp upon their wrists and ankles of clawed hairy demon hands; in all
this terrific amalgamation of sinister and tragic ideas, vividly presented, full of coarse
dramatic power, and intensified by faith in their material reality, the Lorenzetti brethren,
if theirs be indeed the hands that painted here, summed up the nightmares of the Middle Age
and bequeathed an ever memorable picture of its desolate preoccupations to the rising world.
They have called to their aid poetry, and history, and legend. Boccaccio supplies them with
the garden scene of youths and damsels dancing among roses, while the plague is at their gates,
and death is in the air above. From Petrarch they have borrowed the form and mystic robe of
Death herself[131]. Uguccione della Faggiuola has sat for the portrait of the Captain who must
quail before the terrors of the tomb, and Castruccio Castracane is the strong man cut off in
the blossom of his age. The prisons of the Visconti have disgorged their victims, cast adrift
with maiming that makes life unendurable but does not hasten death.[132] The lazar houses and
the charnels have been ransacked for forms of grisly decay. Thus the whole work is not merely
"an hieroglyphical and shadowed lesson" of ascetic philosophy; it is also a realisation of
mediaeval life in its cruellest intensity and most uncompromising truth. For mere beauty these
painters had but little regard.[133] Their distribution of the subjects chosen for treatment
on each panel shows, indeed, a keen sense for the value of dramatic contrast and a masterly
power of varying while combining the composition. Their chief aim, however, is to produce the
utmost realism of effect, to translate the poignancy of passion, the dread certainty of doom,
into forms of unmistakable fidelity. Therefore they do not shrink from prosaic and revolting
details. The knight who has to hold his nose above the open grave, the lady who presses her
cheek against her hand with a spasm of distress, the horse who pricks his ears and snorts with
open nostrils, the grooms who start aside like savage creatures, all suggest the loathsomeness
of death, its physical repulsiveness. In the "Last Judgment" the same kind of dramatic force
is used to heighten a sublime conception. The crouching attitude and the shrouded face of the
Archangel Raphael, whose eyes alone are visible above the hand that he has thrust forth from
his cloak to hide the grief he feels, prove more emphatically than any less realistic motive
could have done, how terrible, even for the cherubic beings to whose guardianship the human
race has been assigned, will be the trumpet of the wrath of God.[134] Studying these frescoes,
we cannot but reflect what nerves, what brains, what hearts encased in triple brass the men
who thought and felt thus must have possessed. They make us comprehend not merely the stern
and savage temper of the Middle Ages, but the intense and fiery ebullition of the Renaissance,
into which, as by a sudden liberation, so much imprisoned pent-up force was driven.

A different but scarcely less important phase of mediaeval thought is imaged in the frescoes
of the Cappella degli Spagnuoli in S. Maria Novella.[135] Dogmatic theology is here in the
ascendant. While S. Francis bequeathed a legend of singular suavity and beauty, overflowing
with the milk of charity and mildness, to the Church, S. Dominic assumed the attitude of the
saint militant and orthodox. Dante's words about him--

                         L'amoroso drudo[136]
    Della fede Cristiana, il santo atleta,
    Benigno a' suoi, ed a' nemici crudo,

omit nothing that is needed to characterise the impression produced upon the Christian world
by this remorseless foe of heresy, this champion of the faith who dealt in butcheries and burnings.
S. Francis taught love; S. Dominic taught wrath: and both, perhaps, were needed for the safety
of the mediaeval Church--the one by resuscitating the spirit of the Gospels, the other by resisting
the intrusion of alien ideals ere the time for their triumph had arrived. What the painters
of these frescoes undertook to delineate for the Dominicans of Florence, was the fabric of
society sustained and held together by the action of inquisitors and doctors issued from their
order. The Pope with his Cardinals, the Emperor with his Council, represent the two chief forces
of Christendom, as conceived by the mediaeval jurists and the school of Dante. Seated on thrones,
they are ready to rise in defence of Holy Church, symbolised by a picture of S. Maria del Fiore.
At their feet the black and white hounds of the Dominican order--Domini canes, according to
the monkish pun--are hunting heretical wolves. Opposite this painting is the apotheosis of
S. Thomas Aquinas. Beneath the footstool of this "dumb ox of Sicily," as he was called, grovel
the heresiarchs--Arius, Sabellius, Averroes. At again a lower level, as though supporting the
saint on either hand, are ranged seven sacred and seven profane sciences, each with its chief
representative. Thus Rhetoric and Cicero, Civil Law and Justinian, Speculative Theology and
the Areopagite, Practical Theology and Peter Lombard, Geometry and Euclid, Arithmetic and Abraham,
are grouped together. It will be seen that the whole learning of the Middle Age--its philosophy
as well as its divinity--is here combined as in a figured abstract, for the wise to comment
on and for the simple to peruse. None can avoid drawing the lesson that knowledge exists for
the service of the Church, and that the Church, while she instructs society, will claim complete
obedience to her decrees. The ipse dixit of the Dominican author of the "Summa" is law.

Such frescoes, by no means uncommon in Dominican cloisters, still retain great interest for
the student of scholastic thought. In the church of S. Maria Sopra Minerva at Rome, where Galileo
was afterwards compelled to sign his famous retractation, Filippino Lippi painted another triumph
of S. Thomas, conceived in the spirit of Taddeo Gaddi's, but expressed with the freedom of
the middle Renaissance. Nor should we neglect to notice the remarkable picture by Traini in
S. Caterina at Pisa. Here the doctor of Aquino is represented in an aureole surrounded by a
golden sphere or disc, on the edge of which are placed the four evangelists, together with
Moses and S. Paul.[137] At his side, within the burnished sphere, Plato and Aristotle stand
upright, holding the "Timaeus" and the "Ethics" in their hands. Christ in glory is above the
group, emitting from His mouth three rays upon the head of S. Thomas. Single rays descend in
like manner upon the evangelists and Moses and S. Paul. They, like Plato and Aristotle, hold
open books; and rays from these eight volumes converge upon the head of the angelical doctor,
who becomes the focus, as it were, of all the beams sent forth from Christ and from the classic
teachers, whether directly effused or transmitted through the writers of the Bible. S. Thomas
lastly holds a book open in his hand, and carries others on his lap; while lines of light are
shed from these upon two bands of the faithful, chiefly Dominican monks, arranged on each side
of his footstool. Averroes lies prostrate beneath his feet with his book face downwards, lightning-smitten
by a shaft from the leaves of the volume in the saint's hand, whereon is written: veritatem
meditabitur guttur meum et labia mea detestabuntur impium.[138]

This picture, afterwards repeated by Benozzo Gozzoli with some change in the persons,[139]
has been minutely described, because it is important to bear in mind the measure of inspiration
conceded by the mediaeval Church to the fathers of Greek philosophy, and her utter detestation
of the peripatetic traditions transmitted through the Arabic by Averroes. Averroes, though
Dante placed him with the great souls of pagan civilisation in the first circle of Inferno,[140]
was regarded as the protagonist of infidelity. The myth of incredulity that gathered round
his memory and made him hated in the Middle Ages, has been traced with exquisite delicacy by
Renan,[141] who shows that his name became a rallying point for freethinkers. Scholars like
Petrarch were eager to confute his sect, and artists used him as a symbol of materialistic
disbelief. Thus we meet with Averroes among the lost souls in the Pisan Campo Santo, distinguished
as usual by his turban and long beard. On the other hand, the frank acceptance of pagan philosophy,
insofar as it could be accommodated to the doctrine of the Church, finds full expression in
the art of this early period. On the walls of the Palazzo Pubblico at Siena were painted the
figures of Curius Dentatus and Cato,[142] while the pavement of the Duomo showed Hermes Trismegistus
instructing both a pagan and a Christian, and Socrates ascending the steep hill of virtue.
Perugino, some years later, decorated the Sala del Cambio at Perugia with the heroes, philosophers,
and worthies of the ancient world. We are thus led by a gradual progress up to the final achievement
of Raphael in the Vatican. Separating the antique from the Christian tradition, but placing
them upon an equality in his art, Raphael made the "School of Athens" an epitome of Greek and
Roman wisdom, while in the "Dispute of the Sacrament" he symbolised the Church in heaven and
Church on earth.

Another class of ideas, no less illustrative of mediaevalism, can be studied in the Palazzo
Pubblico at Siena. There, on the walls of the Sala della Pace or de' Nove, may be seen the
frescoes whereby Ambrogio Lorenzetti expressed theories of society and government peculiar
to his age.[143] The panels are three in number. In the first the painter has delineated the
Commune of Siena by an imperial male figure in the prime of life, throned on a judgment-seat,
holding a sceptre in his right hand and a medallion of Justice in his left.[144] He wears no
coronet, but a burgher's cap; and beneath his footstool are the Roman twins, suckled by the
she-wolf.[145] Above his head in the air float Faith, Charity, and Hope--the Christian virtues;
while Justice, Temperance, Magnanimity, Prudence, Fortitude, and Peace, six women, crowned,
and with appropriate emblems, are enthroned beside him. The majestic giant of the Commune towers
above them all in bulk and stature, as though to indicate the people's sovereignty. The virtues
are his assessors and inspirers--he is King. Beneath the daïs occupied by these supreme personages,
are ranged on either hand mailed and visored cavaliers, mounted on chargers, the guardians
of the State. All the citizens in their degrees advance toward the throne, carrying between
them, pair by pair, a rope received from the hands of Concord; while some who have transgressed
her laws, are being brought with bound hands to the judgment-seat. Concord herself, being less
the virtue of the government than of the governed, is seated on a line with the burghers in
a place apart beneath the throne of Civil Justice, who is allegorised as the dispenser of rewards
and punishments, as well as controller of the armed force and the purse of the community. The
whole of this elaborate allegory suffers by the language of description. Those who have seen
it, and who are familiar with Sienese chronicles, feel that, artistically laboured as the painter's
work may be, every figure had a passionate and intense meaning for him[146]. His picture is
the epitome of government conducted by a sovereign people. Nor can we fail to be struck with
the beauty of some details. The pale earnest faces of the horsemen are eminently chivalrous,
with knightly honour written on their calm and fearless features. Peace, reclining at ease
upon her pillow, is a lovely woman in loose raiment, her hair wreathed with blossoms, in her
hand an olive branch, her feet reposing upon casque and shield. She is like a painted statue,
making us wonder whether the artist had not copied her from the "Aphrodite" of Lysippus, ere
the Sienese destroyed this statue in their dread of paganism[147].

In the other two panels of this hall Ambrogio Lorenzetti painted the contrast of good and bad
government, harmony and discord. A city full of brawls and bloodshed is set in opposition to
one where the dance and viol do not cease. Merchants are plundered as they issue from the gates
on one side; on the other, trains of sumpter mules are securely winding along mountain paths.
Tyranny, with all the vices for his council and with Terror for prime minister, presides over
the ill-governed town. The burghers of the happy commune follow trade or pleasure, as they
list; a beautiful winged genius, inscribed "Securitas," floats above their citadel. It should
be added that in both these pictures the architecture is the same; for the painter has designed
to teach how different may be the state of one and the same city according to its form of government.
Such then were the vivid images whereby Ambrogio Lorenzetti expressed the mediaeval curse of
discord, and the ideal of a righteous rule. It is only necessary to read the "Diario Sanese"
of Allegretto Allegretti in order to see that he drew no fancy picture. The torchlight procession
of burghers swearing amity by couples in the cathedral there described, receives exact pictorial
illustration in the fresco of the Sala della Pace[148]. Siena, by her bloody factions and her
passionate peacemakings, expressed in daily action what the painter had depicted on her palace
walls.

The method of treatment adopted for these chapters has obliged me to give priority to Florence,
and to speak of the two Lorenzetti, Pietro in the Pisan Campo Santo and Ambrogio in the Sala
della Pace at Siena, as though they were followers of Giotto; so true is it that the main currents
of Tuscan art were governed by Florentine influences, and that Giotto's genius made itself
felt in all the work of his immediate successors. It must, however, be observed that painting
had an independent origin among the Sienese, and that Guido da Siena may claim to rank even
earlier than Cimabue.[149] In the year 1260, just before engaging in their duel with Florence,
the Sienese dedicated their city to the Virgin; and the victory of Montaperti, following immediately
upon this vow, gave a marked impulse to their piety.[150] The early masters of Siena devoted
themselves to religious paintings, especially to pictures of Madonna suited for chapels and
oratories. We find upon these mystic panels an ecstasy of adoration and a depth of fervour
which are alien to the more sober spirit of Florence, combined with an almost infantine delight
in pure bright colours, and in the decorative details of the miniaturist.

The first great painter among the Sienese was Duccio di Buoninsegna.[151] The completion of
his masterpiece--a picture of the Majesty of the Virgin, executed for the high altar of the
Duomo--marked an epoch in the history of Siena. Nearly two years had been spent upon it; the
painter receiving sixteen soldi a day from the Commune, together with his materials, in exchange
for his whole time and skill and labour. At last, on June 9, 1310, it was carried from Duccio's
workshop to its place in the cathedral. A procession was formed by the clergy, with the archbishop
at their head, followed by the magistrates of the Commune, and the chief men of the Monte de'
Nove. These great folk crowded round their Lady; after came a multitude of burghers bearing
tapers; while the rear was brought up by women and children. The bells rang and trumpets blew
as this new image of the Sovereign Mistress of Siena was borne along the summer-smiling streets
of her metropolis to take its throne in her high temple. Duccio's altar-piece presented on
one face to the spectator a Virgin seated with the infant Christ upon her lap, and receiving
the homage of the patron saints of Siena. On the other, he depicted the principal scenes of
the Gospel story and the Passion of our Lord in twenty-eight compartments. What gives peculiar
value to this elaborate work of Sienese art is, that in it Duccio managed to combine the tradition
of an early hieratic style of painting with all the charm of brilliant colouring and with dramatic
force of presentation only rivalled at that time by Giotto. Independently of Giotto, he performed
at a stroke what Cimabue and his pupil had achieved for the Florentines, and bequeathed to
the succeeding painters of Siena a tradition of art beyond which they rarely passed.

Far more than their neighbours at Florence, the Sienese remained fettered by the technical
methods and the pietistic formulae of the earliest religious painting. To make their conventional
representations of Madonna's love and woe and glory burn with all the passion of a fervent
spirit, and to testify their worship by the oblation of rich gifts in colouring and gilding
massed around her, was their earnest aim. It followed that, when they attempted subjects on
a really large scale, the faults of the miniaturist clung about them. I need hardly say that
Ambrogio and Pietro Lorenzetti form notable exceptions to this general statement. It may be
applied, however, with some truth to Simone Martini, the painter, who during his lifetime enjoyed
a celebrity only second to that of Giotto.[152] Like Giotto, Simone exercised his art in many
parts of Italy. Siena, Pisa, Assisi, Orvieto, Naples, and Avignon can still boast of wall and
easel pictures from his hand; and though it has been suggested that he took no part in the
decoration of the Cappella degli Spagnuoli, the impress of his manner remains at Florence in
those noble frescoes of the "Church Militant" and the "Consecration of S. Dominic."[153] Simone's
first undisputed works are to be seen at Siena and at Assisi, where we learn what he could
do as a frescante in competition with the ablest Florentines. In the Palazzo Pubblico of his
native city he painted a vast picture of the Virgin enthroned beneath a canopy and surrounded
by saints;[154] while at Assisi he put forth his whole power in portraying the legend of S.
Martin. In all his paintings we trace the skill of an exquisite and patient craftsman, elaborately
careful to finish his work with the utmost refinement, sensitive to feminine beauty, full of
delicate inventiveness, and gifted with a rare feeling for grace. These excellent qualities
tend, however, towards affectation and over-softness; nor are they fortified by such vigour
of conception or such majesty in composition as belong to the greatest trecentisti. The Lorenzetti
alone soared high above the Sienese mannerism into a region of masculine imaginative art. We
feel Simone's charm mostly in single heads and detached figures, some of which at Assisi have
incomparable sweetness. "Molles Senae," the delicate and femininely variable, fond of all things
brilliant, and unstable through defect of sternness, was the fit mother of this ingenious and
delightful master.

After the days of Duccio and Simone Martini, of Ambrogio and Pietro Lorenzetti, were over,
there remained but little for the Sienese to do in painting. Taddeo di Bartolo continued the
tradition of Duccio as the later Giottesques continued that of Giotto. His most remarkable
wall-painting is a fresco of the Apostles visiting the Virgin, the motive of which is marked
by great originality.[155] Our Lady is seated in an open loggia with a company of holy men
and women round her. Descending from the sky and floating through the arches are three of the
Apostles, while one who has just alighted from his aërial transit kneels and folds his hands
in adoration. Seldom have the longing and the peace of loving worship been more poetically
expressed than here. The seated, kneeling, standing, and flying figures are admirably grouped
together; their draperies are dignified and massive; and the architectural accessories help
the composition by dividing it into three balanced sections.

Such power of depicting movement was rare in the fourteenth century. To find its analogue,
we must betake ourselves to the frescoes of Spinello Aretino, a master more decidedly Giottesque
than his contemporary Taddeo di Bartolo.[156] A Gabriel, rushing down from heaven to salute
Madonna, with all the whirr of arch-angelic pinions and the glory of Paradise around him, is
a fine specimen of Spinello's vehemence. The same quality, more tempered, is noticeable in
his frescoes of the legend of S. Ephesus at Pisa.[157] Few faces in the paintings of any period
are more fascinating than the profiles under steel-blue battle-caps of that godlike pair--the
knightly saint and the Archangel Michael--breaking by the irresistible force of their onset
and their calm youthful beauty through the mailed ranks of the Sardinian pagans. Spinello was
essentially a warlike painter; among the best of his compositions may be named the series of
pictures from the history of the Venetian campaign against Frederick Barbarossa.[158] It is
a pity that the war of liberation carried on by the Lombard communes with the Empire should
have left but little trace on Italian art; and therefore these paintings of Spinello, in addition
to their intrinsic merit, have rare historical interest. Delighting in the gleam of armour
and the shock of speared warriors, Spinello communicated something of this fiery spirit even
to his saints. The monks of Samminiato near Florence employed him in 1388 to paint their newly-finished
sacristy with the legend of S. Benedict. In the execution of this task Spinello displayed his
usual grandeur and vigour, treating the grey-robed brethren of Monte Cassino like veritable
champions of a militant Church. When he died in 1410, it might have been truly said that the
flame of the torch kindled by Giotto was at last extinguished.

The student of history cannot but notice with surprise that a city famed like Siena for its
vanity, its factious quarrels, and its delicate living, should have produced an almost passionately
ardent art of piety.[159] The same reflections are suggested at Perugia, torn by the savage
feuds of the Oddi and Baglioni, at warfare with Assisi, reduced to exhaustion by the discords
of jealous parties, yet memorable in the history of painting as the head-quarters of the pietistic
Umbrian school. The contradiction is, however, in both cases more apparent than real. The people
both of Siena and Perugia were highly impressible and emotional, quick to obey the promptings
of their passion, whether it took the form of hatred or of love, of spiritual fervour or of
carnal violence. Yielding at one moment to the preachings of S. Bernardino, at another to the
persuasions of Grifonetto degli Baglioni, the Perugians won the character of being fiends or
angels according to the temper of their leaders; while Siena might boast with equal right of
having given birth to S. Catherine and nurtured Beccadelli. The religious feeling was a passion
with them on a par with all the other movements of their quick and mobile temperament: it needed
ecstatic art for its interpretation. What was cold and sober would not satisfy the men of these
two cities. The Florentines, more justly balanced, less abandoned to the frenzies of impassioned
impulse, less capable of feeling the rapt exaltation of the devotee, expressed themselves in
art distinguished for its intellectual power, its sanity, its scientific industry, its adequacy
to average human needs. Therefore, Florentine influences determined the course of painting
in Central Italy. Therefore Giotto, who represented the Florentine genius in the fourteenth
century, set his stamp upon the Lorenzetti. The mystic painters of Umbria and Siena have their
high and honoured place in the history of Italian art. They supply an element which, except
in the work of Fra Angelico, was defective at Florence; but to the Florentines was committed
the great charge of interpreting the spirit of Italian civilisation in all its branches, not
for the cloister only, or the oratory, but for humanity at large, through painting.

Giotto and his followers, then, in the fourteenth century painted, as we have seen, the religious,
philosophical, and social conceptions of their age. As artists, their great discovery was the
secret of depicting life. The ideas they expressed belonged to the Middle Ages. But by their
method and their spirit they anticipated the Renaissance. In executing their work upon the
walls of palaces and churches, they employed a kind of fresco. Fresco was essentially the Florentine
vehicle of expression. Among the peoples of Central Italy it took the place of mosaic in Sicily,
Ravenna, and Venice, as the means of communicating ideas by forms to the unlettered laity,
and as affording to the artist the widest and the freest sphere for the expression of his thoughts.[160]

FOOTNOTES:

[118] In the History of Painting in Italy, by Messrs. Crowe and Cavalcaselle.

[119] Nothing is more astonishing than the sterility of Genoa and of Rome. Neither in sculpture
nor in painting did these cities produce anything memorable, though Genoa was well placed for
receiving the influences of Pisa, and had the command of the marble quarries of Carrara, while
Rome was the resort of all the art-students of Italy. The very early eminence of Apulia in
architecture and the plastic arts led to no results.

[120] Milan, it is true, produced a brilliant school of sculptors, and the Certosa of Pavia
is a monument of her spontaneous artistic genius. But in painting, until the date of Lionardo's
advent, she achieved little.

[121] See Vol. I., Age of the Despots, pp. 182-188, for the constitutional characteristics
of Florence and Venice; and Vol. II., Revival of Learning, pp. 118-120, for the intellectual
supremacy of Florence.

[122] A glance at the map shows to what a large extent the Italians owed the progress of their
arts to Tuscany. Pisa, as we have already seen, took the lead in sculpture. Florence, at a
somewhat later period, revived painting, while Siena contemporaneously developed a style peculiar
to herself. This Sienese style--thoroughly Tuscan, though different from that of Florence--exercised
an important influence over the schools of Umbria, and gave a peculiar quality to Perugian
painting. Through Piero della Francesca, a native of Borgo San Sepolcro, the Florentine tradition
was extended to Umbria and the Roman States. Perugia might be even geographically claimed for
Tuscany, inasmuch as the Tiber divides the old Etrurian territory from the Umbrians and the
duchy of Spoleto. Lionardo was a Tuscan settled as an alien in Milan. Raphael, though a native
of Urbino, derived his training from Florence, indirectly through his father and his master
Perugino, more immediately from Fra Bartolommeo and Michael Angelo.

[123] If Vasari is to be trusted, this visit of Charles of Anjou to Cimabue's studio took place
in 1267; but neither the Malespini nor Villani mention it, and the old belief that the Borgo
Allegri owed its name to the popular rejoicing at that time is now somewhat discredited. See
Vasari, Le Monnier, 1846, vol. i. p. 225, note 4. Gino Capponi, in his Storia della Repubblica
di Firenze, vol. i. p. 157, refuses however to reject the legend.

[124] See Capponi, vol. i. pp. 59, 78, for a description of the gay and courteous living of
the Florentines upon the end of the thirteenth century.

[125] See the Descrizione della Peste di Firenze.

[126] I wish I could here transcribe the most beautiful passage from Ruskin's Giotto and his
Works in Padua, pp. 11, 12, describing the contrast between the landscape of Valdarno and the
landscape of the hills of the Mugello district. I can only refer readers to the book, printed
for the Arundel Society, 1854.

[127] See Trucchi, Poesie Italiane Inedite, vol. ii. p. 8.

[128] See above, Chapter III, Relation of Sculpture to Painting.

[129] The wonderful beauty of Orcagna's faces, profile after profile laid together like lilies
in a garden border, can only be discovered after long study. It has been my good fortune to
examine, through the kindness of Mrs. Higford Burr, of Aldermaston, a large series of tracings,
taken chiefly by the Right Hon. A. H. Layard, from the frescoes of Giottesque and other early
masters, which, by the selection of simple form in outline, demonstrate not only the grand
composition of these religious paintings, but also the incomparable loveliness of their types.
How great the Trecentisti were as draughtsmen, how imaginative was the beauty of their conception,
can be best appreciated by thus artificially separating their design from their colouring.
The semblance of archaism disappears, and leaves a vision of pure beauty, delicate and spiritual.
The collection to which I have alluded was made some years ago, when access to the wall-paintings
of Italy for the purpose of tracing was still possible. It includes nearly the whole of Lorenzetti's
work in the Sala della Pace, much of Giotto, the Gozzoli frescoes at S. Gemignano, frescoes
of the Veronese masters and of the Paduan Baptistery, a great deal of Piero della Francesca,
Mantegna, Luini, Gaudenzio Ferrari, Pinturicchio, Masolino, &c. The earliest masters of Arezzo,
Pisa, Siena, Urbino are copiously illustrated, while few burghs or hamlets of the Tuscan and
Umbrian districts have been left unvisited.

[130] See Crowe and Cavalcaselle, vol. i. pp. 445-451, for a discussion of the question. They
incline to the authorship of Pietro and Ambrogio Lorenzetti. But the last Florentine edition
of Vasari renders this opinion doubtful.

