Let us look only to Him to-day to do all things as He shall choose and in the way He shall choose.

NOVEMBER 15.

“Oh, man of desires” (margin) (Dan. x. 11).

This was the divine character given to Daniel of old. It is translated in our version, “O man,
greatly beloved.” But it literally means “O man of desires!” This is a necessary element in
all spiritual forces. Indifference is an unwholesome condition; indolence and apathy are offensive
both to God and nature.

And so in our spiritual life, God often has to wake us up by the presence of trying circumstances,
and push us into new places of trust by forces that we must subdue, or sink beneath their power.
There is no factor in prayer more effectual than love. If we are intensely interested in an
object, or an individual, our petitions become like living forces, and not only convey their
wants to God, but in some sense convey God’s help back to them.

May God fill us to-day with the heart of Christ that we may glow with the Divine fire of holy
desire.

NOVEMBER 16.

“Watch therefore, for ye know neither the day” (Matt. xxv. 13).

Jesus illustrates the unexpectedness of His coming by the figure of a thief entering a house
when the master was not there. Life, like the old Jewish night, may be divided into three watches,
youth, maturity, old age. The summons to meet God may come to us in either of these watches.
A writer tells us of his experience with a camping party, of which he was a member, and which,
he tells us, always arranged to have watches at night. “We became especially careful after
what I am about to narrate happened. During the first night, from sunset to sunrise, we had
in turn carefully guarded our camp. But when the next night came, so impressed were we with
the orderly character of the neighborhood, that we concluded that no guard was needed until
bedtime. Within our main tent the evening was spent in story-telling, singing and general amusement.
When the hour to retire arrived, it was discovered that our other tents had been robbed and
everything of value stolen. The work was done before we thought a guard necessary.” It is never
too soon to begin watching against sin.

NOVEMBER 17.

“The ark of the covenant of the Lord went before them” (Num. x. 33).

God does give us impressions but not that we should act on them as impressions. If the impression
be from God, He will Himself give sufficient evidence to establish it beyond the possibility
of a doubt.

How beautifully we read, in the story of Jeremiah, of the impression that came to him respecting
the purchase of the field of Anathoth, but Jeremiah did not act upon this impression until
after the following day, when his uncle’s son came to him and brought him external evidence
by making a proposal for the purchase. Then Jeremiah said: “I knew this was the word of the Lord.”

He waited until God seconded the impression by a providence, and then he acted in full view
of the open facts, which could bring conviction unto others as well as himself.

God wants us to act according to His mind.

We are not to ignore the Shepherd’s personal voice, but like Paul and his companions at Troas,
we are to listen to all the voices that speak, and “gather” from all the circumstances, as
they did, the full mind of the Lord.

NOVEMBER 18.

“And He that sat upon the throne said, It is done” (Rev. xxi. 5, 6).

Great is the difference between action and transaction. We may be constantly acting without
accomplishing anything, but a transaction is action that passes beyond the point of return,
and becomes a permanent committal. Salvation is a transaction between the soul and Christ in
which the matter passes beyond recall. Sanctification is a great transaction in which we are
utterly surrendered, irrevocably consecrated and wholly committed to the Holy Ghost, and then
He comes and seals the transaction and undertakes the work. Our covenant for our Lord’s healing
should be just as explicit, definite and irrevocable. And so of the covenants to which God
is leading His children from time to time in regard to other matters of obedience and service.
God grant that during this hallowed day many a consecrated life may be able to say with new
significance and permanence, “’Tis done, the great transaction’s done.”

For the living Vine is Jesus,
  In whose fulness we may hide;
And find our life and fruitfulness
  As we in Him abide.

NOVEMBER 19.

“We would see Jesus” (John xii. 21).

When any great blessing is awaiting us, the devil is sure to try and make it so disagreeable
to us that we shall miss it. It is a good thing to know him as a liar, and remember, when he
is trying to prejudice us strongly against any cause, that very likely the greatest blessing
of our life lies there. Spurgeon once said that the best evidence that God was on our side
is the devil’s growl, and we are generally pretty safe in following a thing according to Satan’s
dislike for it. Beloved, take care, lest in the very line where your prejudices are setting
you off from God’s people and God’s truth, you are missing the treasures of your life. Take
the treasures of heaven no matter how they come to you, even if it be as earthly treasures
generally are, like the kernel inside the rough shell, or the gem in the bosom of the hard rock.

I have seen Jesus and my heart is dead to all beside,
I have seen Jesus, and my wants are all, in Him, supplied.
I have seen Jesus, and my heart, at last, is satisfied,
        Since I’ve seen Jesus.

NOVEMBER 20.

“The disciple whom Jesus loved leaned on His breast” (John xxi. 20).

An American gentleman once visited the saintly Albert Bengel. He was very desirous to hear
him pray. So one night he lingered at his door, hoping to overhear his closing devotions. The
rooms were adjoining and the doors ajar. The good man finished his studies, closed his books,
knelt down for a moment and simply said: “Dear Lord Jesus, things are still the same between
us,” and then sweetly fell asleep. So close was his communion with his Lord that labor did
not interrupt it, and prayer was not necessary to renew it. It was a ceaseless, almost unconscious
presence, like the fragrance of the summer garden, or the presence of some dear one by our
side whose presence we somehow feel, even though the busy hours pass by and not a word is exchanged.

“O blessed fellowship, divine,
  O joy, supremely sweet,
Companionship with Jesus here,
  Makes life with joy replete;
O wondrous grace, O joy sublime,
I’ve Jesus with me all the time.”

NOVEMBER 21.

“Consider the lilies how they grow” (Matt. vi. 28).

It is said that a little fellow was found one day by his mother, standing by a tall sunflower,
with his feet stuck in the ground. When asked by her, “What in the world are you doing there?”
he naively answered, “Why, I am trying to grow to be a man.”

His mother laughed heartily at the idea of his getting planted in the ground in order to grow,
like the sunflower, and then, patting him gently on the head, “Why, Harry, that is not the
way to grow. You can never grow bigger by trying. Just come right in, and eat lots of good
food, and have plenty of play, and you will soon grow to be a man without trying so hard.”

Well, Harry’s mother was right. Mrs. H. W. Smith never said a sweeter thing than when she answered
the question—“How do the lilies grow?” by simply adding, “They grow without trying.”

Our sweetest spiritual life is the life of self-unconsciousness through which we become so
united to Christ, and live continually on His life, nourished, fed and constantly filled with
His Spirit and presence and all the fulness of His imparted life.

NOVEMBER 22.

“Cast the beam out of thine own eye” (Matt. vii. 5).

Greater than the fault you condemn and criticise is the sin of criticism and condemnation.
There is no place we need such grace as in dealing with an erring one. A lady once called on
us on her way to give an erring sister a piece of her mind. We advised her to wait until she
could love her a little more. Only He who loved sinners well enough to die for them can deal
with the erring. We never see all the heart. He does, and He can convict without condemning,
and reprove without discouraging. Oh, for more of the heart of Christ! Take care, brother,
how you speak of another’s fault. Ere you know, you may be in the same or deeper condemnation.
Very significantly does the Master say that the man that sees a mote in his brother’s eye,
usually has a rafter in his own eye! One of the two unpardonable sins of the Bible is unforgiving
lovelessness.

“Give me a heart like Thine,
Give me a heart like Thine,
  By Thy wonderful power,
  By Thy grace every hour,
Give me a heart like Thine.”

NOVEMBER 23.

“It is high time to awake out of sleep” (Rom. xiii. 11).

One of the greatest enemies to faith is indolence. It is much easier to lie and suffer than
to rise and overcome; much easier to go to sleep on a snowbank and never wake again, than to
rouse one’s self and shake off the lethargy and overcome the stupor. Faith is an energetic
art; prayer is intense labor; the effectual working prayer of the righteous man availeth much.

Satan tries to put us to sleep, as he did the disciples in the garden; but let us not sleep
as do others, but let us wake and be sober, continuing in prayer and watching therein with
all perseverance, stirring up ourselves to take hold of His strength, “not slothful, but followers
of them, who, through patience, inherit the promise.” It is the wind that carries the ship
across the waves; but the wind is powerless unless the hand of the boatman is held firmly upon
the rudder, and that rudder is set hard against the wind. In like manner we hold the rudder,
God fills the sails. It is not the rudder that carries the ship; but it is the rudder which
catches the wind that carries the ship, so God keeps us in perfect peace while we are stayed
upon Him.

NOVEMBER 24.

“I can do all things through Christ” (Phil. iv. 13).

A dear sister said one day: “I have so much work to do that I have not time to get strength
to do it by waiting on the Lord.” Surely that was making bricks without straw, and even if
it was the name of the Lord and the church, it was the devil’s bondage. God sends not His servants
on their own charges; but “He is able to make all grace abound towards us, that we, always
having all sufficiency in all things, may abound unto every good work.” The old story of the
chieftain, fleeing from his foes and almost overtaken, but stopping in the midst of his flight
to get a shoe upon his horse that he might fly more successfully is a true type and lesson
for Christian workers.

The old Latin motto festina lente, “make haste slowly,” has a great lesson for us. The more
work we have to do, the more frequently we have to drop our head upon our desk and wait a little
for heavenly aid and love, and then press on with new strength. One hour baptized in the love
of the Holy Ghost is worth ten battling against wind and tide without the heavenly life.

NOVEMBER 25.

“Judge nothing before the time, until the Lord come” (I. Cor. iv. 5).

Nothing will more effectually arrest the working of the Spirit in the heart than the spirit
of criticism. At the end of a meeting a young minister came forward and told us of the great
blessing he had received that afternoon, and the baptism of the Holy Spirit that had come into
his heart and being, setting him free from the bondage of years. And then he added, “It all
came through your answer to that question, ‘Will a criticizing spirit hinder the Holy Ghost
from filling the heart?’ ”

As the question was asked and answered, he said, “I was sitting in the church criticizing a
good deal that was going on, objecting to this thing and to that thing, finding fault with
the expressions, and praises and testimonies, and feeling thoroughly unhappy. The Lord brought
the answer home to my heart and convicted me of my sin, and there and then I laid it down and
began to see the good instead of the evil. Blessing fell upon me and my soul was filled with
joy and praise, and I saw where my error lay, that for years I had been trying to see the truth
with my head instead of my heart.”

NOVEMBER 26.

“He purgeth it that it may bring forth more fruit” (John xv. 2). It would bleed to death. It,
too, has its dying hour; but it must not be always dying.

Breathe Thine own breath through all my mortal frame,
Help me Thy resurrection life to claim,
Which, ’mid all changes, still abides the same,
  And lead me in the way Everlasting.

Give me the heavenly foretaste here, I pray;
Let faith foredate the everlasting day,
And walking in its glory all the way,
  O, lead me in the way Everlasting!

NOVEMBER 27.

“And the remnant of the oil ... shall pour upon the head” (Lev. xiv. 18).

In the account of the healing of the Hebrew leper there is a beautiful picture of the touching
of his ears, hands and feet, with the redeeming blood and the consecrating oil, as a sign that
his powers of understanding, service, and conduct were set apart to God, and divinely endued
for the Master’s work and will.

But after all this, we are significantly told that “the rest of the oil” was to be poured upon
his head.

The former anointing was from the oil in the hand of the priest, but the latter was to be from
the log, or vessel of oil itself. It was to be literally emptied over him, until he was bathed
with all its contents.

It is a figure of the large and boundless baptism of the Holy Ghost. It speaks of something
more even than the ordinary experiences of the consecrated Christian. It tells of the abundant
and redundant supply which God has for us out of His illimitable fulness.

Have we received “the rest oil”? Are we filled with the Spirit, and letting the overflow bless
others?

NOVEMBER 28.

“Without Me ye can do nothing” (John xv. 5).

How much can I do for Christ? We are accustomed to say.—As much as I can. Have we ever thought
we can do more than we can?

This thought was lately suggested by the remarks of a Christian friend, who told how God had
laid it upon her heart to do something for His cause which was beyond her power, and when she
dared to obey Him, He gave her the assurance of His power and resources, and so marvelously
met her faith that she was enabled to do more than she could otherwise, and accomplish her
heart’s desire, and see a work fulfilled to which her resources were unequal.

The apostle says, “I can do all things through Christ, who is my strength,” and yet He says
we are not able to think anything, as of ourselves.

Oh, blessed insufficiency! Oh, blessed All-Sufficiency! Oh, blessed nothingness, which brings
us all things! Oh, blessed faith, whose rich dowry is, “All things are possible to him that
believeth”!

O to be found of Him in peace, Spotless and free from blame.

NOVEMBER 29.

“Could ye not watch with Me one hour?” (Matt. xxvi. 40.)

A young lady whose parents had died while she was an infant, had been kindly cared for by a
dear friend of the family. Before she was old enough to know him, he went to Europe. Regularly
he wrote to her through all his years of absence, and never failed to send her money for all
her wants. Finally word came that during a certain week he would return and visit her. He did
not fix the day or the hour. She received several invitations to take pleasant trips with her
friends during that week. One of these was of so pleasant a nature that she could not resist
accepting it. During her trip, he came, inquired as to her absence, and left. Returning she
found this note: “My life has been a struggle for you, might you not have waited one week for
me?” More she never heard, and her life of plenty became one of want. Jesus has not fixed the
day or hour of His return, but He has said, “Watch,” and should He come to-day, would He find
us absorbed in thoughtless dissipation? May we be found each day, in the expectant attitude
of those watching for a loved one.

NOVEMBER 30.

“In lowliness of mind let each esteem other better than themselves” (Phil. ii. 3).

When the apostle speaks of “the deep things of God,” he means more than deep spiritual truth.
There must be something before this. There must be a deep soil and a thorough foundation.

Very much of our spiritual teaching fails, because the people to whom we give it are so shallow.
Their deeper nature has never been stirred.

The beatitudes begin at the bottom of things, the poor in spirit, the mourners, and the hungry
hearts. Suffering is essential to profound spiritual life. We need not go to a monastery or
a leper hospital to find it. The first real opportunity for unselfishness will bring into your
life the anguish of crucifixion, unless you are born of some different race from Adam’s.

It is because men and women have not faced this that they know so little of suffering and death.
We must have deep convictions. Truth must be to us a necessity, and principle a part of our
very being. Lord, make me poor in spirit. Lord help me to be even as Thou wert when on earth,
always the lowest, and therefore “highly exalted.”

DECEMBER 1.

“As He is, so are we in this world” (I. John iv. 17).

Jesus will come into the surrendered heart and unite Himself with it, impart to it His own
life and being and become anew from day to day, the supply of its spiritual needs and the substitute
for its helplessness.

Our part is simply to yield ourselves fully recognizing our own worthlessness and then take
Jesus Himself to live in us and be, moment by moment, our strength, purity and victory.

One in His death on the tree,
  One as He rose from the dead;
I from the curse am as free
  E’en as my glorious Head.

One in His merits I stand, One as I Pray in His name, All that His worth can demand I may with
confidence claim.

One on the Throne by His side,
  One in His Sonship divine,
One as the Bridegroom and Bride,
  One as the Branch and the Vine.

All that He has shall be mine,
  All that He is I shall be;
Robed in His glory divine,
  I shall be even as He.

DECEMBER 2.

“Looking diligently lest any man fail” (Heb. xii. 15).

It is not losing all, but coming short we are to fear. We may not lose our souls, but we may
lose something more precious than life—His full approval, His highest choice, and our incorruptible
and star-gemmed crown. It is the one degree more that counts, and makes all the difference
between hot water—powerless in the boiler—and steam—all alive with power, and bearing its precious
freight across the continent.

I want, in this short life of mine,
  As much as can be pressed
Of service true for God and man,
  Help me to be my best.

I want to stand when Christ appears
  And hear my name confessed
Numbered among the hidden ones,
  His holiest and best.

I want, among the victor throng,
  To have my name confessed;
And hear my Master say at last,
  Well done, you did your best.

DECEMBER 3.

Thy thoughts are very deep (Ps. xcii. 5).

